Damage to the superior colliculus in rats impairs desynchronisation of the cortical electroencephalogram in response to light flashes. However, it is unclear which elements within the superior colliculus, and which efferent collicular pathways, might be involved in alerting cerebral cortex to visual stimuli. To investigate this problem, the superior colliculus and surrounding structures were stimulated either electrically (3 s trains of 0.2 ms 100 Hz cathodal pulses), or chemically (200 nl of 5 mM sodium L-glutamate), in rats anaesthetised with urethane. The cortical electroencephalogram was recorded bilaterally from frontal cortex. At each site tested with electrical stimulation the threshold current (up to 60 microA) required to produce tonic desynchronisation (outlasting stimulation-offset by at least 10 s) was determined. Comparison of the effects of electrical and chemical stimulation suggested the following: (1) stimulation of cells in the deep layers of the superior colliculus can desynchronise the cortical electroencephalogram. There may also be an additional effective area in the rostral part of the superficial layers, but this needs to be confirmed in unanaesthetised animals. (2) Stimulation of fibres in the deep white layers of caudal superior colliculus, and of cells in a wide area of caudal midbrain reticular formation, are also effective at desynchronising the cortical electroencephalogram. It is therefore possible that the ipsilateral descending pathway, that runs from the superior colliculus to terminate in the parabigeminal and cuneiform nuclei and surrounding reticular formation, is involved in mediating cortical desynchronisation initiated by the superior colliculus. Evidence from other studies indicates that some sites in this pathway may be part of a &quot;defence arousal system&quot;. (3) Sites on the ascending pathways from the superior colliculus, to structures including dorsal thalamus, pretectum, zona incerta and rostral midbrain reticular formation, were relatively ineffective at tonically desynchronising the cortex. However, some of these pathways might mediate phasic, movement-related arousal of collicular origin.
Antisera were raised in rabbits against aspartate or glutamate conjugated to bovine serum albumin by glutaraldehyde. After immunosorbent purification the antisera reacted selectively with brain protein-glutaraldehyde conjugates of the respective amino acids. These results from model systems encouraged us to employ the antisera to study the distribution of free aspartate and glutamate in brain tissue. The aspartate antiserum produced intense staining of interneurons and deep hilar neurons and modest labelling of pyramidal and granular cells in the hippocampal formation of rats, guinea-pigs and baboons perfusion-fixed with glutaraldehyde. In contrast, glutamate-like immunoreactivity was generally high in pyramidal and granular cells and low in interneurons. In hippocampal slices immersion fixed in glutaraldehyde after being soaked in Krebs' solution aspartate-like and glutamate-like immunoreactivities were lost from perikarya and dendrites. The staining that remained occurred in nerve terminal-like dots and matched the distribution of the major excitatory fiber systems, except that only glutamate-like immunoreactivity, and not aspartate-like immunoreactivity, was concentrated at the site of the mossy fiber terminals, and that aspartate-like but not glutamate-like immunoreactivity occurred between the granular and pyramidal cell bodies. The present technique specifically demonstrates aspartate and glutamate in glutaraldehyde-fixed tissue. We suggest that in perfusion-fixed material the staining intensities reflect the total concentrations of the amino acids (i.e. the &quot;metabolic pool&quot; plus the &quot;transmitter pool&quot;). In immersion-fixed hippocampal slices the &quot;transmitter pool&quot; may be preferentially visualized.
The coexistence of the neuropeptides substance P, cholecystokinin, somatostatin and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide in cat sensory neurons has been examined using peroxidase-anti-peroxidase immunocytochemistry. Attempts were also made to locate cells containing bombesin, neurotensin, [Met]enkephalin and [Leu]enkephalin but no immunoreactivity was found when antisera to these peptides was used. Cells in the dorsal root ganglia were studied by cutting 5 microns serial wax sections or 15 microns cryostat sections. Coexistence was established by applying the antiserum to each peptide to serially adjacent 5 microns sections and establishing the presence of peptide-like immunoreactivity in each of 4 different sections through a single cell. Results showed that the distribution and combinations of coexistence of these neuropeptides in the cat is extremely complex; three and sometimes all four antisera showing immunoreactivity with a single cell. About 21% of all ganglion cells contained some immunoreactivity but there were certainly some small cells which did not contain any immunoreactivity. The coexistence of these peptides differed markedly from that previously reported in the rat suggesting that interspecific differences in the neuropeptide content of cells might be much greater than they are for classical neurotransmitters. The results are discussed in relation to the possible role of neuropeptides and the regulation of their production by sensory neurons.
The uptake of fluorescent stilbene derivatives including 4-acetamido-4'-isothiocyanostilbene-2,2'-disulfonic acid (SITS) was shown to occur from the blood or cerebrospinal fluid in the adult albino rat. SITS was found to be internalized in select populations of neurons, especially pyramidal neurons in layers V and VI of neocortex, granule, hilar and pyramidal neurons in the hippocampus, Purkinje neurons of the cerebellar cortex and predominantly large multipolar neurons in the oculomotor nuclei, lateral vestibular nucleus, red nucleus and the medial gigantocellular brainstem reticular formation neurons. The extent and quality of labeling of neuronal somata, dendrites and axons can be exploited with this technique to produce selective, 'Golgi' type labeling in the nervous system. The methods utilized are fast, economical, long lasting and compatible with fluorescence tracers and immunofluorescence techniques.
Toxic ricin was used to study the central distribution of dental afferents in the cat. Following intrapulpal ricin injections ganglion cell degeneration is seen in the II and III ganglion divisions. Central argyrophilic degeneration occurs in the dorsal portion of all ipsilateral trigeminal nuclei. Ventral degeneration is seen in the pars interpolaris and pars caudalis. No contralateral degeneration was observed. The results are discussed with regard to previous studies of the central location of dental afferents.
A simple calculation of the current dipole moment of the extracellular electric field of the cortex is proposed; it is based on the dipole layer model. The model is extended to the range of microwave frequencies. Arguments in favor of emission of microwave radiation by the dendritic membranes of pyramidal neurons are presented and the strength of the radiative electric field at a distance from the head is calculated and discussed.
Injections of the fluorescent dye Fast blue (FB) into the subarachnoid space result in the retrograde labeling of cells in many brainstem and forebrain structures. These nuclei include precerebellar nuclei, cranial nerve nuclei, raphe nuclei, reticular formation and regions giving rise to tracts traveling near the surface of the brainstem. These results present a serious source of potential error (false positives) in retrograde tracing studies using FB and perhaps other fluorescent dyes. More importantly, they demonstrate possible potential routes, i.e. across the axonal membrane, or uptake by axon terminals at the brain surface, by which compounds, including toxins, can gain entrance into the central nervous system via the cerebrospinal fluid.

Dopamine, 5-hydroxytryptamine and noradrenaline are electroactive (oxidisable) neurotransmitters in the mammalian brain. Voltammetry, a technique which can measure the concentration of such compounds by their oxidation at an inert electrode, has been applied in vivo in the hope of measuring the release of these neurotransmitters without recourse to perfusion-based or post-mortem analyses. The measurement of neurotransmitter release is, however, complicated by the presence of high concentrations of other electroactive species (ascorbic and uric acids). Nevertheless, when used properly, with due emphasis on pharmacological identification of electrochemical signals, the technique can measure catechol and indole metabolites in vivo. Under certain circumstances the release of the catecholamines and 5-hydroxytryptamine themselves can be measured. The advantages and drawbacks of the voltammetric methodology are discussed.

An attempt was made to identify the predictors of the severity of depression as measured by Hamilton's Rating Scale for depression. The analysis was on the data of 48 patients with a functional depressive illness admitted to a mental hospital in connection with a project on Dexamethasone suppression test. A broadly conceived 'endogeneity' score was the only variable that explained a substantial part of the variance in the Hamilton's scores of depression. It was concluded that the score on the Hamilton's Rating Scale for depression indexes severity of depression when severity is conceived with the accent on endogenous features.
Fifty four schizophrenic patients, diagnosed as per Research Diagnostic Criteria, were studied for immunoglobulin profiles. The schizophrenics were subdivided into paranoid and non-paranoid groups and their immunoglobulin profiles were compared with those of normals. There was no significant difference between normals and schizophrenic groups. Duration of illness, previous episodes of schizopnrenia, family history of schizophrenia severity of psychosis and duration of hospital stay had no influence on serum IgG, IgA and IgM in schizophrenics. The results are discussed in the light of existing literature on immunoglobulin alterations in schizophrenia.
The foundations of Neuropsychology lie in the fields of behavioral neuroscience, applied psychological evaluation, and behavioral neurological investigation. These areas have provided increasing sophistication about the nature of the relationship between changes in brain function and human behavior. Continuing developments in these fields will provide the foundation upon which our applied activities rest and from which they take their scientific validity. The use of neuropsychological evaluative tools as aids in understanding the consequences of subtle and, in many instances, not primarily neurological medical illnesses represents a threshold of investigation and clinical application. The sensitivity of clinical neuropsychological tools to disruptions in brain function, previously left unrecognized in individuals who have sustained neurological injury or illness, represents the second threshold issue. Yet another threshold issue is the use of neuropsychological investigation as a preventive tool and as an early warning signal for the appreciation of a broad range of risk factors encountered by individuals not typically thought of as potential patients for neuropsychologists. This article discusses the growing use of neuropsychological tools to understand the broader range of human behavioral difficulties and human medical consequences.

A simple procedure for manufacturing Cl-, K+, and pH liquid membrane ion-sensitive microelectrodes is presented in detail. Electrodes suitable for recording from the specimen of interest are back-filled with a small amount of silane solution and heated for 5 min on a hot plate at a temperature between 400 and 500 degrees C, after which they are injected with the ion-sensitive resin. The procedure is adaptable to many different glass stocks, e.g., single-barreled, double-barreled, or theta glass, and can be used to produce electrodes having a wide range of tip sizes for recording either extracellular or intracellular ion activities. Another advantage of the method is speed; up to 10 electrodes can be prepared simultaneously, permitting over 40 functional electrodes to be made per hour.
Electrical potentials recorded extracellularly from the sinus gland of the isopod, Oniscus asellus, were stored on video tape with the aid of a digital-audio (DA) processor and a video cassette recorder (VCR). The DA processor transforms the analog signal to digital pulses of equal amplitude and converts these pulses into a television signal for recording on video tape. In playback, the DA processor reconverts the pulses to an analog signal with negligible distortion. When viewed on the oscilloscope screen, electrical potentials reproduced by this method were indistinguishable from electrical potentials recorded 'live' from the sinus gland. However, electrical potentials recorded from the same sinus gland and reproduced by a conventional FM tape recorder were easily differentiated from the 'live' recording. The special effects inherent in the VCR (e.g. stop action, frame advance) also permitted detailed analysis of spontaneously occurring electrical potentials. Special effects were not possible with the FM tape recorder. The price, ease of operation and ability to produce extremely high quality recordings, makes the DA processor and VCR an exceptional system for storing electrophysiological data.
Modifications are described which convert an inexpensive 'Digital Audio Processor' (Sony PCM-701ES), together with a video cassette recorder, into a high performance digital tape recorder, with two analog channels of 16 bit resolution and DC-20 kHz bandwidth. A further modification is described which optionally provides four additional 1-bit digital channels by sacrificing the least significant four bits of one analog channel. If required two additional high quality analog channels may be obtained by use of one of the new video cassette recorders (such as the Sony SL-HF100) which incorporate a pair of FM tracks.
In this study, a simple technique for neuronal tracing with horseradish peroxidase (HRP) in vitro is described. It can be applied to excised small brains of poikilothermic vertebrates, or to trimmed blocks or slices of brain tissue from homoiothermic vertebrates. The filling technique relies on the diffusion of HRP into transected axons of supravital neurons, and gives a Golgi-like staining of the filled neuronal profiles. The incubation is carried out at 4 degrees C, which minimizes unspecific background staining caused by pinocytotic uptake of HRP. The technique was tested for visualizing (i) intrapineal neurons projecting to the brain in the rainbow trout, (ii) pinealofugal projections to the brain in the rainbow trout and the three-spined stickleback, (iii) retinal ganglion cells in the rainbow trout, and (iv) central pinealopetal projections in the golden hamster. The strength of this method lies in the possibility to perform very accurate applications of HRP to excised brains or brain slices under a stereo microscope, the simple processing of tissue, and the Golgi-like filling of the neuronal profiles. This technique may provide an important complement to currently used HRP-tracing techniques.
In response to baccalaureate student requests for additional clinical experience and expanded opportunities in neurological and neurosurgical nursing, an experimental course was designed for the winter session semester in cooperation with a local teaching hospital. A three-credit elective, &quot;Discovering Neuroscience Nursing,&quot; was offered to senior students for five weeks. The course included thirty hours of lecture and laboratory, field trips, and over 200 hours of clinical experience. A student stipend was provided by the hospital. Goals for the course centered on providing an opportunity for the student to gain competence and confidence in caring for patients with neurological dysfunctions and providing family support. Students were assigned staff nurse preceptors as they rotated to every clinical setting caring for patients with alterations to the nervous system. Evaluations from students and staff preceptors indicated the successful acceptance of the program which will be modified and continued as a senior elective.
The labeling of retinal ganglion cells by axonal transport of an iron-dextran complex (injected into the superior colliculus and the lateral geniculate nucleus) was compared to the previously described labeling of the dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra (after striatal injection), to test the validity of the method in myelinated and unmyelinated CNS pathways. It was shown that the retrograde labeling in the visual pathway was impaired, consecutive to the penetration of iron-dextran into the myelin sheaths and a subsequent myelin alteration along the optic nerve.
The soluble proteins released by hypotonic lysis of highly purified bovine adrenal chromaffin granules were analysed by one- and two-dimensional electrophoresis, followed by transfer to nitrocellulose and decoration with lectins or specific antibodies. The effects of neuraminidase treatment, and of chemical deglycosylation by trifluoromethanesulphonic acid, were investigated. It was shown that lectins could be used to distinguish the two major series of chromogranins from each other, from dopamine beta-hydroxylase and from several minor, unidentified glycoprotein components of the lysate. Antibody decoration revealed a complex series of peptides containing enkephalin sequences, some of which changed their electrophoretic mobility on treatment with trifluoromethanesulphonic acid.
The hindlimb-flexor-withdrawal reflex elicited by stimulation of the skin of the hindpaw has been examined in chronic decerebrate rats. This flexor reflex manifests as a typical phasic avoidance response when measured either behaviourally in the decerebrate rat or electrophysiologically in the decerebrate-spinal preparation. Once the threshold of the cutaneous flexor-reflex afferents in the skin have been exceeded a brief burst of activity with only a short afterdischarge occurs in the flexor motoneurones. The response to sustained stimuli adapts rapidly. In the absence of any treatment to the hindlimb the threshold, duration and responsiveness of the reflex remains stable when tested repeatedly. Thermal or chemical stimuli of sufficient intensity to produce tissue injury and prolonged local inflammation in a hindpaw of the chronic decerebrate rat result in marked and long-lasting (several weeks) alterations in the ipsilateral withdrawal reflex. The mechanical threshold necessary to elicit the reflex by stimulation of the hindpaw falls so that light touch or brush can now elicit a response instead of the firm pressure or pinch required pre-injury. Suprathreshold stimuli to the inflamed skin generate a sustained oscillating pattern of flexion in contrast to the brief flicking movement found in control animals. Electromyographic recordings from the hamstring flexor muscles ipsilateral to the inflamed hindpaw show decreased mechanothresholds, increased spontaneous activity, prolonged afterdischarges to brief stimuli and a slowly adapting tonic response to sustained stimulation. Populations of single cutaneous mechanoreceptive C-primary afferents recorded both from untreated decerebrate rats and from rats with an inflamed hindpaw are indistinguishable in terms of their response properties. There is no difference in threshold, spontaneous activity or afterdischarge between the two populations. The possible mechanisms responsible for the conversion of the high threshold phasic flexor reflex into a low threshold tonic reflex are discussed as are the possible implications for sensory disorders that accompany chronic injury in man.
In addition to primary afferent fibres, the dorsal columns of the cat spinal cord contain ascending second-order axons which project to the dorsal column nuclei. The aim of the present study was to obtain morphological evidence that certain primary afferent axons form monosynaptic contacts with cells of origin of this postsynaptic dorsal column pathway. In ten adult cats, neurones with axons ascending the dorsal columns were retrogradely labelled with horseradish peroxidase using a pellet implantation method in the thoracic dorsal columns. In the lumbosacral regions of the same animals, primary afferent fibres were labelled intra-axonally with ionophoretic application of horseradish peroxidase. Tissue containing labelled axons was prepared for light and combined light and electron microscopy. Ultrastructural examination demonstrated that slowly adapting (Type I), hair follicle, Pacinian corpuscle and group Ia muscle spindle afferents formed monosynaptic contacts with labelled cells and light microscopical analysis suggested that they also received monosynaptic input from rapidly adapting (Krause) afferents. This evidence suggests that sensory information from large-diameter cutaneous and muscle spindle afferent fibres is conveyed disynaptically via the postsynaptic dorsal column pathway to the dorsal column nuclei. Some of the input to this pathway is probably modified in the spinal cord as the majority of primary afferent boutons forming monosynaptic contacts were postsynaptic to other axon terminals. The postsynaptic dorsal column system appears to constitute a major somatosensory pathway in the cat.
Neurons in the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus (arcuate neurons) were traced on Golgi-impregnated sections. Dendrites of arcuate neurons showed characteristic orientation patterns. Dendrites along the lateral side follow the convex border of the nucleus by running parallel to the tanycyte processes. Neurons located in the ventrolateral portion of the nucleus have dendrites running parallel to the basal surface of the hypothalamus. Fine, beaded axons of arcuate neurons project mostly ventrally, and less frequently dorsally and dorsolaterally. Ventrally projecting axons converge towards the tuberoinfundibular sulcus which emerges into the ventral portion of the arcuate nucleus from below.
Afferents to the nucleus accumbens have been studied with the retrograde transport of unconjugated wheatgerm agglutinin as detected by immunohistochemistry using the peroxidase-antiperoxidase method, in order to define precisely afferent topography from the cortex, thalamus, midbrain and amygdala. Cortical afferent topography was extremely precise. The largest number of cells was found following injections to the anterior accumbens. Anteromedial injections labelled a very large extent of the subiculum and part of the entorhinal cortex. Anterolateral injections produced less subicular and entorhinal label but also labelled the posterior perirhinal cortex. Posteromedial injections labelled only the ventral subiculum and a few cells in the adjacent medial entorhinal cortex. Posterolateral injections labelled few lateral entorhinal neurones but did label a long anteroposterior strip of perirhinal cortex. Prefrontal cortex label was found only after anterior accumbens injections. In the amygdala labelled neurones were found in cortical, central, lateral posterior, anteromedial and basolateral nuclei. Basolateral amygdala projected chiefly to the anteromedial accumbens and central nucleus to anterolateral accumbens. Only a weak amygdala label was found after posterior accumbens injections. In the ventral tegmental area, the midline interfascicular nucleus projected only to medial accumbens. The paranigral ventral tegmentum projected chiefly to the medial accumbens and the parabrachial area chiefly to the lateral accumbens. In the thalamus, heaviest label was found after anterior accumbens injections. Most cells were found in the paraventricular, reuniens and rhomboid nuclei and at posterior thalamic levels lying medial to the fasciculus retroflexus. There was only restricted topography found from thalamic sites. Retrograde label was also found in the ventral pallidum and lateral hypothalamus. Single small injection sites within accumbens received input from the whole anteroposterior extent of the thalamus and ventral tegmentum. The medial accumbens was found to have a close relationship to habenula, globus pallidus and interfascicular nucleus. It appeared that the heaviest volume of inputs projected to anteromedial accumbens, where output from hippocampus (CAI), subiculum, entorhinal and prefrontal cortices converged with output from amygdala, midline thalamus and ventral tegmentum.
Here we present an elaboration and a quantitative example for a hypothetical neuronal process, implementing what we refer to as the metaorganization principle. This process allows the internalization of external (body) geometries into the central nervous system (CNS) and a reciprocal and equally important action of the CNS geometry on the external (body) geometry. The hypothesis is based on the distinction, within the CNS, between covariant sensory and contravariant motor vectorial expressions of the extrinsic geometry. These sensory and motor expressions, given in natural co-ordinate systems, are transformed from one to the other by a neuronal network which acts as a metric tensor. The metric tensor determines the relationship of these two expressions and thus comprises the functional geometry of the system. The emergence through metaorganization of networks that implement such metric function is viewed as the result of interactions between the covariant motor execution which generates a physical action on the external world (via the musculoskeletal system) and the covariant sensory proprioception which measures the effect of such motor output. In this transformation of contravariants to covariants by the physical geometry of the motor system, a covariant metric tensor is expressed implicitly. However, co-ordinated motor action requires its dual tensor (the contravariant metric) which is assembled in the CNS based on the metaorganization principle, i.e. the ability of CNS and external geometries to mold one another. The two metric transformations acting on each other detect error signals whenever the match of the physical and functional geometries is imperfect. Such error signals are utilized by the metaorganization process to improve the match between the two metrics, so that with use the internal representation becomes increasingly homeometric with the geometry of the external world. The proposed physical process by which the metaorganization principle is implemented is based on oscillatory reverberation. If covariant proprioception is used as a recurrent signal to the motor apparatus, as if it were a contravariant motor expression, then reverberations at their steady-state yield the eigenvectors and eigenvalues of the system. The stored eigenvectors and eigenvalues can serve, respectively, as a means for the genesis of a metric (in the form of its spectral representation) with the given eigenvectors and as a means of comparing the eigenvalues that are implicit in the external body geometry and those of the internal metric.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
We have analysed the isotubulin pattern of three astrocytic cell clones, derived from spontaneously established permanent cell cultures originating from 8-day postnatal mice cerebellar explants, in comparison with that of primary astroglial cultures from embryonic brain and cerebellum. These astrocytic clones, which may represent the different astroglial cell types of mouse cerebellum, did not produce the alpha- and beta-acidic isoforms, these being found only in cells of neuronal lineage. However, the three astrocytic clones, but not the primary astroglial cultures, did synthesize the beta'-tubulin isoforms; in addition quantitative analysis of the beta' proteins showed a positive correlation between the ability of the cells to extend processes and their synthesis of the beta' isoforms. These data suggest that the presence of beta'-tubulin is not specific for neuronal cells but may be related to the ability of cells from the nervous system to extend processes.
Monoclonal antibody 2C5 labels a subset of dorsal root ganglion neurones in the rat. The cell sizes of these neurones fall within the range for the small dark cell population and the antibody labels between a half and two-thirds of the neurones in this size range. A subpopulation of small neurones was also labelled in the trigeminal and vagal ganglia. Other sites of immunoreactivity in the central nervous system are the region of the substantia gelatinosa of the spinal cord, fibres in Lissauer's tract, the tractus solitarius and the tuberculum olfactorium. These sites are consistent with the antigen being expressed by the central processes of primary afferent neurones. It is suggested that the size distributions of 2C5-positive dorsal root ganglion neurones and the pattern of 2C5 immunoreactivity within the spinal cord indicate that the labelled cells may be neurones with peripheral C fibers. Outside the nervous system the antigen is expressed in a number of specific cell types within a variety of organs. These include some pancreatic acinar cells, parietal cells of the gastric mucosa, some cells in taste buds, Leydig cells of the testis, scattered cells in lymph nodes and lung alveoli, some renal tubules, the epithelial lining of the fallopian tube, the epithelium covering the ovary and certain cells in the basal layer of the epidermis.
The effects of repetitive activity on action-potential shape in Aplysia californica pleural sensory cells are described. Action potentials were evoked by intracellular current injection at frequencies between 7.41 and 0.2 Hz. In contrast to other molluscan neurons having brief action potentials, it was found that at these firing rates the normally brief action potential develops a prominent shoulder or plateau during the repolarization phase. Higher stimulus rates broaden the action potential more rapidly and to a greater extent than lower stimulus rates. Inactivation is slow relative to activation; effects of 3-s 6-Hz trains are detectable after 1 min rest. The amplitude of the plateau voltage reaches a maximum of 50-70 mV at the highest stimulus rates tested. Frequency-dependent increases in action-potential duration measured at half-amplitude normally range between 6 and 15 ms. Cadmium, at concentrations between 0.05 and 0.5 mM, antagonizes frequency-dependent broadening. The increases in duration induced by repetitive activity are more sensitive to cadmium than are the increases in plateau amplitude. Tetraethylammonium, at concentrations between 0.5 and 10 mM, slightly increases the duration and amplitude of single action potentials. During repetitive activity at high stimulus rates the maximum duration and rate of broadening are both increased but the amplitude of the plateau potential is not affected by these tetraethylammonium concentrations. Above 10 mM, tetraethylammonium greatly increases the duration and amplitude of single action potentials as well as the rates of action-potential duration and amplitude increase during repetitive activity. These high tetraethylammonium concentrations also cause the normally smoothly increasing duration and amplitude to reach a maximum value early in a train and then decline slowly during the remainder of the train. The consequences of frequency-dependent spike broadening in these neurons have not yet been investigated but it is clear from these data that repetitive activity in these cells will augment calcium entry and that this increased calcium entry has a complex but predictable dependence on the duration of, and firing rate within, an afferent volley. Because these cells are involved in important adaptive behaviour it is inferred that these behaviours will be complexly affected by the intensity and duration of the stimulation of the receptive fields of the pleural sensory neurons.
In the presence of cocaine and corticosterone low-frequency (2 Hz) nerve stimulation evoked release of [3H]noradrenaline measured from isolated rat portal vein preparation. In normal Krebs solution exogenously applied l-noradrenaline (3 X 10(-8)-10(-6) M) significantly reduced the nerve-evoked [3H]noradrenaline release. The IC50 value of L-noradrenaline proved to be 1.8 X 10(-7) M. Yohimbine (3 X 10(-7) M) maximally blocked the alpha 2-adrenoceptors and enhanced nerve-evoked [3H]noradrenaline release. In the presence of 5.9 mM external K+, ouabain up to 10(-4) M did not affect either the resting or the stimulation-evoked release of radioactivity from tissues. In the absence of external K+ both the resting and the nerve-evoked release of [3H]noradrenaline increased markedly. When K+ was readmitted to preparations which had been kept in K+-free solution both the resting and the stimulation-evoked [3H]noradrenaline release were greatly reduced temporarily. In K+-free solution L-noradrenaline (10(-6) M) and yohimbine (3 X 10(-7) M) failed to significantly alter the nerve-evoked release. However, 3 X 10(-6) M yohimbine in K+-free solution significantly increased the stimulation-evoked release of [3H]noradrenaline. It is concluded that presynaptic alpha 2-adrenoceptor-mediated &quot;negative feed-back&quot; is present in rat portal vein preparations which can be inhibited by the preferential alpha 2-adrenoceptor blocker, yohimbine. However, if the Na+-pump is inhibited (which by itself enhanced the transmitter release), presynaptic autoinhibition is more pronounced, since a high concentration of yohimbine is required to block it.
Intracellular recordings were made from neurones in the myenteric and submucous plexuses of the guinea-pig ileum. All myenteric neurones that were hyperpolarized by [Met5]enkephalin (or normorphine) were also hyperpolarized by noradrenaline (or clonidine); neurones unaffected by opioids were unaffected by noradrenaline. The hyperpolarizations resulted from an increase in potassium conductance of the membrane and were blocked by the respective antagonists naloxone and idazoxan. Neurones of the submucous plexus were hyperpolarized by noradrenaline but not by normorphine. The results suggest that myenteric neurones possesses both mu-opioid receptors and alpha 2-adrenoceptors whereas submucous neurones have alpha 2-adrenoceptors but not mu-opioid receptors.
Morphine (opiate agonist) produced a dose-dependent decrease in the spontaneous motility of 5- and 9-day chick embryos. Naloxone (opiate antagonist) appeared to reverse competitively the inhibition of motility caused by morphine. The effects of morphine on spontaneous motility in 5-day embryos were also reversed stereospecifically by the opiate antagonist pairs WIN 44441-3/WIN 44441-2 and levallorphan/dextrallorphan. Levorphanol (opiate agonist) also produced a dose-dependent decrease in the motility of 5-day embryos while its inactive (+)-isomer, dextrophan, was not effective. Etorphine (opiate agonist) was more than 1000-fold more effective than morphine in inhibiting the motility of 5-day embryos. The effectiveness of several opiate agonists and antagonists on the spontaneous motility of 5-day embryos was similar to their effectiveness in radioligand-binding studies on isolated membrane receptors from either adult mammalian brain or ileum. Levorphanol was more effective than dextrophan and etorphine was substantially more effective than morphine in decreasing the spontaneous motility of 4-day embryos. WIN 44441-3 was more effective than WIN 44441-2 in reversing the inhibition of motility in 4-day embryos caused by morphine. Morphine inhibited spontaneous hind-limb motility in both thoracic spinal and sham-operated 7-day embryos; the inhibition of motility caused by morphine was reversed by WIN 44441-3 in both thoracic spinal and sham-operated 7-day embryos. [Leu5]enkephalin-like immunoreactivity in the lumbar spinal cord was concentrated in the superficial laminae of the dorsal horn and along the midline rostral to the central canal. A lesser concentration of immunoreactive processes occurred in the medial and lateral motor columns where labelled varicosities appeared to contact motoneurons. Opiate receptors appear to be present at least as early as day 5 (and perhaps as early as day 4) in the chick embryo. Opiate receptors appear to be present in the lumbar spinal cord of the chick embryo at least as early as day 7. The structural requirements for ligand binding to opiate receptors in the 5-day chick embryo are similar to the requirements for ligand binding to opiate receptors in the adult.
The effects of histamine on the firing of supraoptic neurosecretory neurons in the rat were examined in vitro using acutely prepared, hypothalamo-neurohypophysial explants perifused with an artificial cerebrospinal fluid. Extracellular action potentials meeting the criteria of antidromic invasion from neurohypophysial stalk stimulation were recorded from 135 neurons in the tuberal portion of the supraoptic nucleus, which lies superficially along the tuber cinereum and consists of mostly vasopressin-containing neurons. Units could be classified as slow/silent (76.3%), phasic (21.5%) or continuous (2.2%) on the basis of their spontaneous activity. Histamine applied briefly to the perifusate excited approximately one-third of the slow silent neurons and approximately two-thirds of the phasic neurons, with a wide range (10(-3)-10(-9)) in the effective concentration across neurons. The H1-receptor agonists 2-pyridylethylamine and 2-thiazolylethylamine mimicked these excitations in 10 of 12 and 3 of 6 neurons tested, respectively. The H2-receptor agonists dimaprit (4 neurons) and impromidine (5 neurons) failed to excite any of the tested neurons previously excited by histamine. The H1-receptor antagonist promethazine antagonized histamine's excitatory effect in 8 of 9 cells, while the H2-receptor antagonist cimetidine had little effect on the 9 cells tested. Histamine also modified bursts of activity induced in some slow/silent neurons by antidromic stimulation without having an observable effect in the absence of an antidromic burst. In 10 of 18 neurons histamine produced an elongation of burst duration and a modest increase in intraburst firing rate when applied during an antidromically evoked burst. In an additional 5 of 17 neurons, which had neither previously responded to histamine nor shown an antidromically-evoked burst, the pairing of histamine application and antidromic shocks resulted in an antidromically evoked burst. The effects of histamine on evoked bursts also appeared to be mediated by an H1-receptor. Histamine's excitation of supraoptic neurons is thus dependent on the electrical activity expressed by the neuron at the time of testing. Conductances activated by depolarization of the neuron may be modified by histamine or this compound may alter the threshold for burst generation. Considered with data showing H1-receptor localization and histamine-immunoreactive fibers within the supraoptic nucleus, the present results, as well as those showing the potency of centrally applied histamine in releasing vasopressin, suggest histamine may act physiologically by altering the electrical activity of vasopressin-secreting neurons.
The neurons containing somatostatin in the rat periventricular nucleus were studied by using a modified electron microscopic immunocytochemical technique that improves both the penetration of immunoreagents into unembedded immunostained tissues and the preservation of ultrastructural morphology. Inside perikarya and dendrites, immunostaining was not only associated with neurosecretory granules but also with ribosomes and saccules of the cis face of the Golgi apparatus. In the axonal profiles found in this region the labeling was observed both on neurosecretory granule cores and on the limiting membrane of small synaptic-like vesicles. Throughout the periventricular nucleus, both non-synaptic and synaptic relationships were shown between labeled neurons. Non-synaptic relationships mainly consisted of direct apposition of the membranes of neighboring neurons by dendrosomatic, somasomatic or dendrodendritic contacts. These labeled perikarya and dendrites were also synaptically contacted by labeled axonal endings containing numerous aggregated synaptic-like vesicles. The physiological significance of the synaptic and non-synaptic relationships between somatostatinergic neurons is discussed in terms of possible synchronization between homologous neurons of the somatostatin neuroendocrine system and control of these neurons by a central ultra-short loop feedback mechanism.
In order to observe the fine details of intracellularly stained neurons in brain slices the slices must be cleared of opaque matter. This clearing process involves dehydration of the slice, which typically results in significant shrinkage of the cleared tissue. However, how this shrinkage affects neuronal morphology has not been demonstrated to date. In this paper we detail the artifacts induced in the morphology of stained neurons by this clearing process. During dehydration-induced shrinkage of the brain slices, neurons stained with the water-soluble dye, Lucifer yellow, demonstrated a dramatic decrease in size to less than two-thirds of their original dimensions. In contrast neurons stained with the horseradish peroxidase/diaminobenzidine reaction-product did not shrink with the slice; instead the dendrites bent and curled during dehydration with no loss in cell-soma size. We have managed to circumvent these artifacts by using as a clearing agent the solvent dimethyl sulfoxide, which is miscible in both aqueous and organic phases. This solvent will clear tissue slices without inducing the concomitant artifacts caused by tissue shrinkage occurring with the alcohol-dehydration process.
The effect of different concentrations (0.001, 0.01, 0.1 and 1 mM) of dopamine on chemo-afferent activity was studied in the rabbit carotid body superfused in vitro. Excitation was the sole effect observed: it was always present for dopamine tests at 0.1 and 1 mM but was found in only 4 out of 9 tests at 0.01 mM and in 1 out of 5 tests at 0.001 mM. By comparison with a natural stimulus like hypoxia, dopamine excitation was delayed and had a much slower time course. Dopamine antagonists, (+)-butaclamol and haloperidol did not affect the responses to dopamine and to hypoxia. The results were not significantly altered when CO2 was added to the superfusing medium. It is concluded that dopamine is not a likely excitatory transmitter for chemoreception in the rabbit carotid body.
This immunohistochemical study of chicken retina using flat-mounts shows that pancreatic glucagon- and substance P-like immunoreactive amacrine cells have more heterogeneous subpopulations than was previously understood to be the case. Using double-staining immunohistochemical procedures we demonstrate that a substantial proportion of all subtypes of glucagon-like immunoreactive cells contain substance P-like immunoreactivity and that the ratio of the amacrine cells containing both peptides to total immunoreactive cells varies according to position in the retinal and cell type. These results suggest that retinal cells may have different functions according to position or cell type.
Galanin, a 29 amino acid peptide, was recently isolated from the porcine gut. Immunocytochemistry revealed a dense network of galanin-immunoreactive nerve fibers in the submucosa, smooth muscle layers and intramural ganglia throughout the rat gastrointestinal tract. In the smooth muscle the density of innervation was lower in the colon than in the small intestine. In the mucosa galanin-immunoreactive fibers were quite numerous in the small intestine, less numerous in the large intestine and rare in the stomach. A moderate number of galanin-immunoreactive nerve cell bodies could be detected in the myenteric ganglia throughout the digestive tract and in the submucous ganglia of the intestines. Enteric galanin-immunoreactive fibers seem to be intrinsic to the gastrointestinal tract since their distribution and frequency were unaffected after extrinsic denervation (chemical sympathectomy, vagal denervation or clamping of nerves running within the mesenterium). Myectomy at the mid-jejunal level resulted in a total loss of galanin-immunoreactive nerve fibers 5 mm anally to the lesion with a gradual return of galanin-immunoreactive fibers up to 15-20 mm further anally; there was no overt loss of fibers orally. The findings indicate that myenteric galanin-immunoreactive neurones issue long descending projections that terminate either within the myenteric ganglia or in the smooth muscle.
Radioimmunoassay and immunocytochemistry were used to study the distribution of galanin, a novel 29 amino acid porcine intestinal peptide, in the central nervous system of the rat and pig. The pattern of distribution was similar in the two species, with the highest concentrations of galanin-like immunoreactivity found in the neurohypophysis, hypothalamus and sacral spinal cord. Immunocytochemical studies of these regions localized galanin-like immunoreactivity to cell bodies in the paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei of the hypothalamus, to fibres in the pars nervosa and to numerous cell bodies and fibres in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord. On both gel and high pressure liquid chromatography, galanin-like immunoreactivity in rat and pig nervous tissue eluted as a single peak in a position similar to purified procine intestinal galanin standard. Surgical and pharmacological manipulations in the rat suggest the presence of galanin in afferent fibres. An increase of galanin-like immunoreactivity was observed in the sacral spinal cord of the rat following thoracic spinal cord transection. Thus galanin-like immunoreactivity in the brain is mainly localized in the hypothalamopituitary region. The decrease of galanin-like immunoreactivity in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord, following dorsal rhizotomy and pre-treatment of rats with capsaicin, indicates that many of the fibres, which are of small diameter, may well be derived from spinal sensory neurones.

The report is concerned with serendipitous observations which were made in the course of investigations on the connectivity of the claustrum. Stereotaxical injections of Fast Blue were made in the neostriatum. All major sources of striopetal fiber systems were found to contain fluorescent cell bodies. Quite unexpectedly, also fluorescent axons and terminals could be observed in brain regions known to receive a striofugal input including the globus pallidus, entopeduncular and subthalamic nucleus, and the substantia nigra, zona reticulata. It is concluded that Fast Blue may be used for both retrograde and anterograde neuronal tracing.
A method is described for combining anterograde axonal tract tracing using concurrent double immunohistochemical localization of axonally transported Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin (PHA-L) and endogenous neural antigens. With this technique, some projections of the substantia nigra and the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus are examined to demonstrate advantages offered by this approach for tracing chemically specified circuits in the central nervous system.
During the 41-G mission, two payload specialist astronauts took part in six Canadian medical experiments designed to measure how the human nervous system adapts to weightlessness, and how this might contribute to space motion sickness. Similar tests conducted pre-flight provided base-line data, and post-flight experiments examined re-adaptation to the ground. No changes were detected in the vestibulo-ocular reflex during this 8-day mission. Pronounced proprioceptive illusions were experienced, especially immediately post-flight. Tactile acuity was normal in the fingers and toes, but the ability to judge limb position was degraded. Estimates of the locations of familiar targets were grossly distorted in the absence of vision. There were no differences in taste thresholds or olfaction. Despite pre-flight tests showing unusual susceptibility to motion sickness, the Canadian payload specialist turned out to be less susceptible than normal on-orbit. Re-adaptation to the normal gravity environment occurred within the first day after landing.


A glass-insulated microelectrode made from elgiloy orthodontic wire, a stainless cobalt-chromium alloy containing 15% iron, was described by Suzuki and Azuma (1976). Here, we detail a set of modified electrode fabrication procedures, including techniques for hardening and etching the wire, specifying the size, geometry and exposure of the tip, and adjusting tip impedance over a wide range. Accurate insulation of the tip with molten solder glass produces microelectrodes suitable for extracellular recording from single or multiple units and simultaneous recording of evoked potentials. The finished electrode is tough enough to withstand multiple penetrations of the thickened, fibrous dura of the chronic monkey preparation. The iron content allows Prussian blue staining of marking lesions for histological verification of recording sites.
The construction and implantation of a device is described that holds the head of an alert rat in a well-defined position. The main parts of the head holder consist of a plate with a wide opening to allow for vertical access to virtually all parts of the brain, a rectangular recording well, and two specially shaped elastic steel skull clamps. It is easy to fabricate, painless, long-lasting, and suitable for stable stereotaxic recordings of single units in small alert mammals.
An inexpensive microcomputer (Commodore 64K) based system was developed for the analysis of neural spike trains. The trains were recorded from single ampullary units in response to mechanical stimulation of the isolated semicircular canal of the bullfrog (Rana catesbeiana). A BASIC program provided a number of options while machine language subroutines generated interstimulus interval (ISI) and peristimulus time (PST) histograms. Up to thirty 5-s spike trains could be combined for analysis (0.1 ms resolution ISI, 100 ms bin width PST). Histograms and summary statistics were saved on floppy disks. The cost of adding this computer system to an existing neurophysiology laboratory is less than US $600 (printed, tape, and disk versions of these programs are available). The system was used to measure vestibular responses to putative vestibular neurotransmitters such as carbachol (an acetylcholine mimic) (Rossi et al., 1980) and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) (Flock and Lam, 1974).
This paper describes simple procedures which allow immunohistochemistry to be combined with a newly developed silver degeneration technique for the purpose of mapping transmitter-specific connections on the light microscopic level. Conditions of fixation, survival time and immunohistochemistry that contribute to optimal results are discussed.
Central nervous system tissue which included the preoptic area (an area rich in gonadotropin-releasing hormone neurons) was taken from normal 17-day fetal mice and transplanted into the infundibular recess of the third ventricle of the hypothalamus of 90-day male mutant hypogonadal mouse hosts that are unable to synthesize the neurohormone, gonadotropin-releasing hormone. The growth and development of gonadotropin-releasing hormone neurons and fibers in the donor and host tissue as well as recovery of the pituitary-testicular axis were followed from 10 to 120 days post-implantation. Testicular growth was evident in 94% of the hypogonadal animals within 30 days post-implantation, continued for 90 days but showed no further increase during the remainder of the experiment. Increases in seminal vesicle weight, an index of testosterone secretion, were measurable at 30 days and continued through to the end of the experiment. Pituitary concentrations of gonadotropins were doubled at 30 days over that seen in the control mutant mouse and were maintained thereafter at normal or supranormal concentrations. In contrast plasma levels of gonadotropins, although above baseline at 30 days, never reached normal circulating levels. Nevertheless, it appeared that the concentration of luteinizing hormone achieved was sufficient to initiate and maintain testicular growth and testosterone secretion for the entire duration of the experiment. Immunocytochemical analysis of brain tissue was used to determine the presence and numbers of gonadotropin-releasing hormone neurons in the transplant and the distribution of their fibers in the donor and host tissue. The numbers of immunoreactive gonadotropin-releasing hormone neurons present at the time of sacrifice ranged from 3 to 140. Fiber outgrowth from the donor cells into the host was noted as early as 10 days post-implantation and the density of outgrowth continued to increase over the course of the experiment. Positive fibers tended to accumulate over the tuberoinfundibular sulci as they do in normal animals. In those instances where the transplant was placed a long distance from the median eminence, the gonadotropin-releasing hormone axons grew on the internal surface of the third ventricle until they reached these specific exit zones. These studies indicate that in the mutant hypogonadal mouse, central nervous system transplants from normal fetal mice can maintain the function of the pituitary-gonadal axis for periods of up to 120 days post-implantation. Outgrowth of the neurosecretory fibers begins very soon after implantation and the axons tend to follow pathways seen in normal tissue.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Immunocytochemical and electron microscopic methods were used to examine neurons in regio superior of rat hippocampus displaying cholecystokinin octapeptide-like immunoreactivity. Cholecystokinin-immunoreactive synaptic terminals and somata are found in all layers of regio superior but are most numerous in stratum pyramidale. The vast majority of terminals form symmetric synaptic contacts onto the somata and proximal dendrites of hippocampal pyramidal cells and onto smaller dendrites which may also arise from pyramidal cells. A very small number of cholecystokinin-immunoreactive terminals form synapses that appear asymmetric and contact dendritic shafts or spines. The somata of some pyramidal cells receive symmetric synapses from cholecystokinin-immunoreactive terminals that are joined by cytoplasmic bridges to form parts of pericellular baskets. These and adjacent pyramidal cell somata are also contacted by terminals that are not immunoreactive for cholecystokinin. No cholecystokinin-positive terminals contacted the initial segments of pyramidal cell axons. Cholecystokinin-immunoreactive cells are found in all layers of regio superior. Their somata receive a few symmetric synapses, most of which are formed by terminals not immunoreactive for cholecystokinin. Their dendrites receive a greater number of both symmetric and asymmetric contacts, some of which are immunoreactive for cholecystokinin. We conclude the following: The localization of cholecystokinin immunoreactivity in synaptic terminals contacting the somata and dendrites of hippocampal pyramidal cells is consistent with the suggestion that cholecystokinin acts as a neurotransmitter at these sites and at sites in other parts of the cerebral cortex. Results from the present and previous studies suggest that cholecystokinin-like immunoreactivity may co-exist with gamma-aminobutyrate in some non-pyramidal neurons of regio superior. Cholecystokinin-immunoreactive terminals arise mainly from non-pyramidal cells intrinsic to the hippocampus, one class of which appears to be a type of basket cell.
Changes in homovanillic acid concentration, recorded in vivo by voltammetry with carbon-paste electrodes, were used as an index of dopamine release. With electrodes implanted in frontal cortex, nucleus accumbens and striatum, the pattern of dopamine release was monitored simultaneously in the three brain regions together with the rats' motor activity. Changes in response to the systemic administration of dopamine-receptor agonists and antagonists were used as an index of feedback control of dopamine release. The relationships between dopamine release and motor activity, as well as that between dopamine release in the different brain regions, were investigated by calculating correlation coefficients for data collected over 24-h periods. The results show that dopamine release in frontal cortex is subject to little feedback regulation, that there is no nocturnal increase and no correlation with motor activity. Dopamine release in accumbens and striatum follows a very different pattern. There was a high correlation between dopamine release in these two regions on both sides of the brain; the correlation between the accumbens and the ipsilateral striatum was the highest. Dopamine release in both regions shows evidence of considerable feedback regulation, a nocturnal increase and a high correlation with motor activity. The importance of the accumbens in relation to the level of motor activity is supported by the finding that the correlation coefficient between motor activity and dopamine release in this structure was significantly higher than that between activity and release in the striatum.
The iris of the adult rat contains one or several neurotrophic factors that enhance the survival of dissociated parasympathetic neurons (from the embryonic chick ciliary ganglion) in culture. To assay survival activity, iris homogenates were serially diluted with culture medium and the percentage of neurons surviving for 2 days in a collagen matrix in culture determined. The extract induced survival curves that were similar for denervated and normal irides. Similarly no differences in fibre outgrowth from cultured whole ciliary ganglia were found. The results suggest that the apparent level of parasympathetic growth factor(s) is not under strict control of the innervation of the iris.
The effect of the availability of synaptic targets on neuronal survival was tested by explanting the cochleovestibular ganglion from embryonic day 3-1/2 chick embryos and maintaining it in the presence or absence of appropriate synaptic target tissues for 14 days in culture. The targets were the inner ear, peripherally, and the myelencephalon, centrally. Light and electron microscopic observations showed that the ganglion cells in the explants with targets present had generally achieved a degree of differentiation comparable to that of their counterparts in embryonic day 14 embryos. The variety of cell types seen in the normal embryonic day 14 ganglia was also evident in vitro. In ganglia explanted without peripheral or central targets, few neurons survived. Ganglia explanted with either peripheral or central target intact showed considerably better survival than those explanted without any target. Ganglia explanted with only the peripheral target (the inner ear) survived equally as well as those with both central and peripheral targets. Ganglia cultured with the central target (myelencephalon) did not survive as well as those with peripheral targets. The effect of the peripheral target on the ganglion was less clear-cut when ganglia were first dissected from their targets and then recombined in culture. However, the results of such experiments in which nerve fascicles were traced in serial sections from ganglia to target areas, suggest that the actual innervation of target cells, as well as proximity of ganglia to target tissues, could influence neuronal survival. Establishment of innervation appeared to be selective, in that the closest available target area was not always the one contacted by the ganglionic fibers. The present findings are consistent with a role of neuron-target cell interactions in supporting neuronal survival in the cochleovestibular ganglion of the chick embryo. Both the central and the peripheral targets are implicated in trophic interactions with the sensory neurons.
The modifications in the localization of tubulin and the high molecular weight microtubule-associated protein 2 were studied in the cerebellum after partial denervation. Both proteins were localized in 40 micron sections using monoclonal antibodies against beta-tubulin (clones Tu9B and Tu12) or microtubule-associated protein 2 (clones AP9 and AP13), and polyclonal antisera against alpha- and beta-tubulin or microtubule-associated protein 2, visualized with the immunoperoxidase method of Sternberger [Sternberger (1979) Immunocytochemistry; Sternberger and Sternberger (1983) Proc. natn. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 80 6126-6130] or a biotin-avidin system. The destruction of the inferior olive was performed in adult male rats by electrocoagulation or by intraperitoneal administration of 3-acetylpyridine. One day after chemical destruction of the inferior olive, anti-microtubule-associated protein 2 staining with either of the monoclonal antibodies or with the polyclonal antiserum was almost identical to that observed in the cerebellum of non-denervated animals. Specific staining was intense in the cell somata and dendrites and absent in myelinated tracts and in parallel fibers. However, 3 days after the lesion anti-microtubule-associated protein 2 staining showed a clear decrease, both in the proximal and the distal portions of thick secondary and tertiary dendritic trunks of the Purkinje cell. The intensity of the staining was also considerably reduced in the fine dendritic ramifications. By 8 days post-lesion, microtubule-associated protein 2 immunoreactivity began to increase, but only in the portions of the dendrites deprived of the climbing fibre; on the contrary, low immunoreactivity was found in the fine dendritic ramifications which are contacted by normal parallel fibers; microtubule-associated protein 2 immunoreactivity increased considerably by 11 days post-lesion, giving a pattern quite similar to that of non-denervated Purkinje cells. The alterations in microtubule-associated protein 2 immunoreactivity were also accompanied by a dramatic decrease in the immunostaining for tubulin, beginning on day-3 post-lesion and lasting until day-15 post-lesion. These changes were observed with either the monoclonal antibodies against beta-tubulin or with the polyclonal antiserum against alpha- and beta-tubulin. The changes in both molecules were also observed in animals in which the inferior olive was destroyed by electrocoagulation, ruling out the possibility of a direct action of 3-acetylpyridine on dendritic microtubular proteins.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Recent evidence suggests that gamma-aminobutyrate has a profound influence on the activity of premotor neurons in the intermediate grey layer of the superior colliculus. In the present study an antibody to glutamate decarboxylase, the synthesizing enzyme for gamma-aminobutyrate, was used to identify and characterize the structures in the intermediate grey layer of the cat that use gamma-aminobutyrate as a transmitter. The material was examined with both the light and electron microscope. Glutamate decarboxylase immunoreactivity was confined, for the most part, to axon terminals. Glutamate decarboxylase positive terminals almost completely cover the soma and proximal dendrites of the large neurons that are characteristic of this layer. Other glutamate decarboxylase positive terminals contact smaller, presumably more distal dendrites. By combining the glutamate decarboxylase immunocytochemistry with the retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase in single animals, it was demonstrated that the cells of origin of the major descending efferent pathway from the intermediate grey layer, the predorsal bundle, are heavily contacted by glutamate decarboxylase immunoreactive terminals.
We have examined the effects of a number of excitatory amino acid antagonists on transmission at the cochlear nerve-nucleus magnocellularis synapse in the chicken. Using an in vitro preparation and bath application of drugs, we studied the effects of kynurenic acid and several related substances, streptomycin and a selective N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, DL-alpha-aminosuberate. The last compound had no effect on evoked transmission. Of the various kynurenic acid-related compounds tested, only kynurenic and dipicolinic acid selectively altered responses in nucleus magnocellularis. Quinolinic acid, a kynurenic acid analogue that is structurally akin to dipicolinic acid but which acts selectively at N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, was without effect. The effect of kynurenic acid was solely inhibitory, completely blocking postsynaptic responses with a potency dependent on the frequency of nerve stimulation. No such frequency dependence was seen with dipicolinic acid although this compound also completely suppressed evoked responses. In addition dipicolinic acid potentiated postsynaptic responses at concentrations only slightly lower than those causing inhibition. Streptomycin inhibited responses in nucleus magnocellularis but this effect seems to result partially from the ability of the drug to inhibit presynaptic calcium influx. Our finding that selective antagonists of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors were ineffective while antagonists of both receptor types, such as kynurenic and dipicolinic acids, inhibited evoked responses reinforces the conclusion that postsynaptic receptors mediating transmission at this synapse are of the non-N-methyl-D-aspartate type [Nemeth et al. (1983) Neurosci. Lett. 40, 39-44].(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Intracellular recordings showed that administration of pulses of tryptamine mimicked one of the actions of serotonin (a slow depolarization associated with an increased input resistance) on type II/AH neurons of the myenteric plexus. After superfusion at high concentration tryptamine initially acted like serotonin, but then blocked the action of serotonin on these cells. Measurements of the release of preloaded [3H]serotonin or [3H]norepinephrine revealed that tryptamine is a potent releaser of these labeled amines; this release is Ca2+ independent but temperature dependent. Moreover, incubation with tryptamine depleted the myenteric plexus of endogenous serotonin. Since tryptamine has previously been demonstrated not to inhibit the binding of [3H]serotonin to its enteric neural receptor we framed the hypothesis that the serotonin-releasing action of tryptamine is responsible for its ability to mimic serotonin when given in pulses or to desensitize serotonin receptors through the prolonged release of serotonin when it is superfused. This hypothesis was tested by examining the action of tryptamine on the serotonin-mediated slow excitatory postsynaptic potentials evoked in type II/AH neurons by fiber tract stimulation. Tryptamine superfusion antagonized these slow potentials as predicted. Moreover, after a long time when endogenous serotonin was depleted, the response of type II/AH neurons to exogenous serotonin recovered but the slow synaptic potential did not. The action of tryptamine on this neuron was relatively specific. When the slow synaptic potential and serotonin responses were blocked by tryptamine the type II/AH neurons still responded to acetylcholine. Fast excitatory postsynaptic potentials were not affected by tryptamine. Furthermore, other types of neurons (I/S) and other neuronal responses to serotonin (such as a fast depolarization with decreased input resistance or presynaptic inhibition of acetylcholine release) were not blocked by tryptamine. Finally, radioautographic studies revealed a neural uptake of tryptamine in the chemically sympathectomized myenteric plexus; however, the distribution of tryptamine in the plexus was different from that of serotonin and was not blocked by excess non-radioactive serotonin. Therefore tryptamine does not enter myenteric neurons via the specific serotonin uptake mechanism; however, zimelidine, found to be a selective inhibitor of the enteric uptake of serotonin, antagonized the release of serotonin by tryptamine and attenuated the effect of tryptamine on responses to serotonin.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
We have used intracellular recordings to study synaptic interactions between myenteric neurons grown in dissociated cell culture. Intracellular stimulation of individual myenteric neurons caused several types of synaptic effects in nearby neurons: fast excitatory synaptic potentials mediated by nicotinic acetylcholine receptors; slow, non-cholinergic synaptic potentials; dual transmission having both fast cholinergic and slow non-cholinergic components and inhibition of spontaneously occurring fast nicotinic synaptic potentials. Fast nicotinic synaptic potentials were elicited by about 40% of neurons tested and often occurred spontaneously. The fast synaptic potentials were similar to those that have been studied in other autonomic neurons with respect to their estimated reversal potential and their sensitivity to cholinergic antagonists. The amplitudes of the fast synaptic potentials declined if evoked at frequencies greater than 0.5 Hz. Potentiation of the fast synaptic potentials was observed following high-frequency stimulation of presynaptic neurons. Several transmitter candidates modulated fast cholinergic transmission. Substance P and vasoactive intestinal peptide promoted nicotinic transmission by causing increased amplitudes of evoked and spontaneous fast synaptic potentials and an increased frequency of spontaneous synaptic potentials. gamma-Aminobutyrate and [Met]enkephalin both caused decreased amplitudes and frequency of nicotinic synaptic potentials. Serotonin depressed synaptic potentials in some neurons while enhancing them or having no effect in others. Slow, non-cholinergic, synaptic potentials were elicited by about 10% of neurons tested. These synaptic effects lasted 15-300s, caused depolarizations of 3-15 mv and were accompanied by increased neuronal input resistance. The transmitter(s) causing these slow synaptic potentials has not yet been identified.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The normal morphology, efferent projections and possible neurotransmitter content of neurons in the tuberomammillary nucleus (caudal magnocellular nuclei of Bleier et al.) [Bleier, Cohn and Siggelkow (1979) In Anatomy of the Hypothalamus, Vol. 1, pp. 137-220] have been examined in the adult male rat. In Nissl-stained sections, the nucleus can be divided into a dorsomedial, ventral and diffuse part, each of which consists of large, darkly stained neurons cradling the mammillary body. The ventral part is by far the largest and consists of some 2500 neurons on each side of the brain. Immunohistochemical studies indicate that a majority of the large neurons in all three parts of the nucleus stain with antisera against glutamate decarboxylase and [Met]enkephalyl-Arg6-Phe7 heptapeptide and that a smaller subset of these neurons (about 10%) also stain with an antiserum against substance P. Single injections of retrogradely transported fluorescent tracers were made into 18 different sites in 86 animals and the results indicate that all three parts of the tuberomammillary nucleus on one side of the brain send fibers to or through various parts of the neocortex, hippocampal formation, amygdala, basal ganglia, thalamus, superior colliculus and cerebellum on both sides of the brain and that the projection neurons are not organized in a highly topographic way. Injections of two different fluorescent tracers in the same animal indicate that individual neurons in the nucleus may give rise to both ascending and descending projections, as well as projections to widely divergent parts of the forebrain. Together with previous results, this evidence suggests that the tuberomammillary nucleus has widespread projections to the numerous brain structure located in the forebrain and in the caudal medulla (it may not project to the spinal cord), and that its axons may release a mixture of neuroactive substances including gamma-amino butyrate and several peptides. Although its functional significance remains to be investigated, morphological evidence suggests that the tuberomammillary nucleus may constitute one of a series of neurotransmitter-specific cell groups in the brainstem and basal forebrain with diffuse efferent projections that may be involved in the modulation of attention or behavioral state, rather than the processing of specific sensory or motor information.
The cerebral nuclei of 30-day-old rats were separated by a two-step gradient centrifugation into the fractions of large and small nuclei. The DNA content per nucleus was determined biochemically and cytophotometrically in these fractions as well as in the non-separated cerebellar and liver-cell nuclei used as reference cells. The DNA content of large and/or mainly neuronal, and the small and/or glial cell-enriched nuclei were 6.74 +/- 0.51 and 6.21 +/- 0.30 pg, respectively, and in the cerebellum 6.10 +/- 0.28 pg per nucleus. The DNA-content values determined cytophotometrically in Feulgen-stained samples of large and small bulk isolated cortical nuclei ranged within the diploid limits, indicated by a part of a liver-cell population measured in parallel. No evidence for the large scale existence of an &quot;extra-DNA&quot; reported earlier [Bregnard, Knuesel and Kuenzle (1975) Histochemie 43, 59-61; Bregnard, Kuenzle and Ruch (1977) Expl Cell Res. 107, 151-157; Kuenzle, Bregnard, Hbschner and Ruch (1978) Expl Cell Res. 113, 151-160] in cortical neurons has thus been obtained.
Astrocytes have been classically described based on morphological characteristics as either protoplasmic or fibrous. However, the appearance of astrocytes at the light microscopic level following immunoreaction with glial filament acidic protein antisera or Cajal's gold-chloride method is markedly different from the morphology of Golgi-impregnated or horseradish peroxidase-filled astrocytes. The present study combines immunohistochemistry using glial fibrillary acidic protein antisera and a cellular suspension of structurally intact astrocytes isolated from the rat cerebral cortex to demonstrate that the distribution of glial filaments is limited to major astrocytic processes. Because the sheet-like processes which decorate the major branches of protoplasmic astrocytes do not contain glial filaments, the entire protoplasmic astrocyte is not visible when viewed in situ in the gray matter of the cerebral cortex. Thus staining techniques that have a propensity for the glial filaments such as antisera to glial fibrillary acidic protein and the gold-chloride method provide only a skeletal outline of the major processes of the protoplasmic astrocyte. On the other hand, fibrous astrocytes which do not have feathery decorations on major processes are visible in the cerebral cortex in their structural entirety. The present investigation also offers additional evidence of the specificity of glial fibrillary acidic protein antisera for astrocytes.
We have used intracellular recordings to study the electrophysiological and pharmacological properties of neurons that have been grown in cell cultures after having been dissociated from the myenteric plexus of the small intestine of newborn rats. Studies of action potential mechanisms revealed that all of the neurons could generate Na+-dependent action potentials in the presence of Ca2+-channel blockers and that about 70% could generate Ca2+-dependent action potentials when Na+ channels were blocked with tetrodotoxin. No neurons generated long afterhyperpolarizations after single action potentials but about 50% of neurons did so following trains of action potentials. Over 95% of the neurons tested accommodated rapidly to sustained depolarization. The effects of several enteric neurotransmitter candidates were studied by superfusing or pressure-ejecting test solutions while recording neuronal responses. All of the cultured neurons tested had nicotinic responses to acetylcholine. Subsets of neurons responded to muscarinic cholinergic agonists (slow depolarization and increased excitability), serotonin (fast depolarization or slow depolarization and increased excitability), gamma-aminobutyrate (fast depolarization), substance P (slow depolarization, biphasic fast and slow depolarization or increased excitability without a change in membrane potential), vasoactive intestinal peptide (slow depolarization and increased excitability), or [Met]enkephalin (slow hyperpolarization and/or decreased action potential duration). We conclude that myenteric neurons grown in cell culture retain many of the physiological and pharmacological properties that they have in situ. Such cultures will permit detailed biophysical and pharmacological studies of the mechanisms of action of enteric neurotransmitter candidates.
We have developed procedures for dissociating neurons from the myenteric plexus of the small intestine of newborn rats and for growing those neurons in cell cultures for up to 3 months. Neurons in these cultures retain many of the differentiated properties of myenteric neurons in vivo. This is the first of a series of 3 papers describing those properties. In this paper, we describe the morphology of cultured neurons that we have observed with light and electron microscopy; we also describe the patterns of straining observed when immunocytochemical techniques were used to localize neurotransmitter candidates in the cultured neurons. Intracellular injections of a fluorescent dye, Lucifer yellow, revealed that many of the cultured neurons had morphologies similar to those of myenteric neurons in vivo. When thin sections of cultures were viewed in an electron microscope, many neurons were observed to have numerous small (40-60 nm), clear synaptic vesicles and/or large (80-150 nm), opaque-cored (p-type) vesicles. Synaptic profiles were most often observed on neuronal somata. Neurons containing immunoreactive serotonin, substance P, somatostatin, enkephalin, bombesin and gastrin/cholecystokinin were observed in about the same proportions as they occur in the intact myenteric plexus. Neurons containing immunoreactive vasoactive intestinal polypeptide were found in higher numbers than reported in vivo. Neurons containing immunoreactive neurotensin, secretin and glutamate decarboxylase were not observed. An antiserum directed against choline acetyltransferase stained 40-50% of the neurons. We conclude that myenteric neurons continue to express much of their normal differentiated properties even when they are removed from the gut, dissociated into a suspension of single cells and grown in culture. Such cultures will be useful for correlating the morphological, biophysical, pharmacological and synaptic properties of individual myenteric neurons and for testing the ability of altered environmental conditions to change those properties.
Double post-embedding immunolabeling of both tyrosine hydroxylase and glutamate decarboxylase on 1-micron semi-thin sections allowed the visualization of numerous endings that use gamma-aminobutyrate as a transmitter apposed to dopaminergic cell bodies in the periventricular-arcuate hypothalamic complex. Up to fifteen glutamate decarboxylase-positive contacts per tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cell profile could be observed. In some favourable planes of section glutamate decarboxylase-positive endings were also seen in close apposition to proximal dopaminergic dendrites. About 250 tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cell profiles, whose diameter approached the maximum diameter of the dopaminergic cells, were surveyed. An average of 7.4 glutamate decarboxylase-positive contacts were counted on these profiles. From these figures it was estimated that a dopaminergic cell body was contacted on average by 75-175 terminals that use gamma-aminobutyrate as a transmitter. At the electron-microscopic level, the nature of these contacts was investigated by a method combining radioautographic detection of cell bodies having taken up tritiated dopamine and pre-embedding immunostaining of glutamate decarboxylase containing endings. Glutamate decarboxylase-positive axon terminals were seen apposed to somatic and dendritic elements. On some favorable planes of section, they were found to be engaged in morphologically defined synaptic complexes of the symmetrical or asymmetrical type. A number of the postsynaptic perikarya were labelled by tritiated dopamine and, in agreement with the light microscopic observations, they were frequently seen in contact with more than one immunopositive ending. The present findings provide a morphological substratum for a direct gamma-aminobutyrate control of the tuberoinfundibular dopaminergic neurons. Such a control could account more particularly for the central, stimulatory effects of gamma-aminobutyrate on prolactin secretion.

Parkinsonism developed as the result of shunt malfunction in a 16-year-old girl with aqueductal stenosis. Her symptoms responded to levodopa and shunt revision. Possible pathogenetic mechanisms are discussed.
During continuous administration of sodium octanoate (0.2 M) into weanling and mature rabbits, a significant decrease in serum glucose concentration was observed within 15 minutes after onset of the infusion. This relative hypoglycemia persisted for as long as one hour, after which there was a rebound to normoglycemia. Hepatic glycogen concentrations were correspondingly reduced by one-half in octanoate-treated versus control animals. Previous studies in an octanoate model have demonstrated clinical, biochemical, and pathologic features similar to those found in Reye syndrome. The current findings may have implications for the hypoglycemia observed in children with Reye syndrome.
After introducing physical and physiological stimulation parameters, the authors present different techniques and discuss their clinical usefulness for the investigation of the visual system: flashes: chiefly 'ganzfeld' stimulators (whole field or local stimulation). A solution using optic fibres incorporated in a sclero-corneal electrode built in our laboratory is presented; patterns: bars or chekerboards, especially on TV screens. Advantages and inconveniences of video images are discussed; other techniques: essentially endocular laser interference fringes, electrical stimulations, high level flashes for ERP and binocular studies, particularly dynamic random dot pattern EVP. In conclusion, the necessity for the careful control of stimulation characteristics and for a strategy suitable for clinical examination is discussed.

Cultured mouse oligodendrocytes were superfused by pressure application to the rear-end of a 3-20 microns micropipette filled with normal bathing fluid. Input resistance was determined during superfusion with two separate electrodes. The input resistance increased reversibly by 90% in 26 cells tested and was unaffected in 39 cells. When pairs of oligodendrocytes were electrically coupled, coupling decreased in a reversible manner during superfusion. Therefore, the flow from a micropipette can uncouple cells, and studies involving application of substances by pressure ejection from microelectrodes must be evaluated with care.






A major conceptual shift in neuroscience has been wrought by the realization that brain function is modulated by numerous chemicals in addition to classical neurotransmitters. Many of these informational substances are neuropeptides, originally studied in other contexts as hormones, &quot;gut peptides,&quot; or growth factors. Their number presently exceeds 50 and most, if not all, alter behavior and mood states, although only endogenous analogs of psychoactive drugs like morphine, Valium, and phencyclidine have been well appreciated in this context. We now realize that their signal specificity resides in receptors (distinct classes of recognition molecules), rather than the close juxtaposition occurring at classical synapses. Rather precise brain distribution patterns for many neuropeptide receptors have been determined. A number of brain loci, many within emotion-mediating brain areas, are enriched with many types of neuropeptide receptors suggesting a convergence of information at these &quot;nodes.&quot; Additionally, neuropeptide receptors occur on mobile cells of the immune system; monocytes can chemotax to numerous neuropeptides via processes shown by structure-activity analysis to be mediated by distinct receptors indistinguishable from those found in brain. Neuropeptides and their receptors thus join the brain, glands, and immune system in a network of communication between brain and body, probably representing the biochemical substrate of emotion.
Monitoring of somatosensory evoked potentials (SSEP) of head-injured patients is a frequent and interesting topic in the neuroscience nursing arena. Often, however, nursing involvement in the recording of somatosensory evoked potentials has been limited to observing the once a week procedure and documenting patient outcome. Active nursing involvement and input in this fast moving area of research has been developed in a large midwestern neuroscience center where nurses in the NICU are responsible for the continuous monitoring (24 hours a day) of somatosensory evoked potentials of the brain-injured patient. These nurses are accountable for an accurate clinical assessment of the patient, placement and upkeep of the monitoring equipment, and evaluation of the waveform for abnormalities. The purpose and physiology of the monitoring process and the aspects of nursing care will be discussed in this article.
Establishment of an early rehabilitation program for patients with neurological/neurosurgical illness or injury is the focus of this article. The Neuroscience Clinical Nurse Specialist (NCNS) is identified as having a major responsibility in initiating early rehabilitation in the acute care setting. Development of the rehabilitation program is discussed through the NCNS's roles as educator, clinician, consultant, and researcher. Implementation of the rehabilitation program emphasizes the use of the nursing process, the role of the staff nurse, active patient and family participation, and use of the interdisciplinary team approach. General concepts rather than specific practices are used in order to present an overview of the role.
The interactions between acoustic and somatosensory evoked potentials were examined in the anterior suprasylvian gyrus of the cat. Under conditions of barbiturate anaesthesia, occlusion was the dominant form of interaction. gamma-Aminobutyrate in local and intravenous application, and baclofen and diazepam in intravenous application significantly deepened the occlusion. gamma-Aminobutyrate antagonists, picrotoxin and bicuculline, in subconvulsive doses decreased occlusion or turned it into facilitation. gamma-Aminobutyrate agonists and gamma-aminobutyrate depressed and gamma-aminobutyrate antagonists enhanced the amplitude of the evoked potentials but the interactions by themselves proved independent from the absolute amplitudes. The interactions between evoked potentials of different modalities in the association cortex of the cat can be regarded as an expression of the actual equilibrium between excitatory and inhibitory interneuronal systems.
In the presence of convulsant drugs such as picrotoxin, neurons in the hippocampal-slice preparation generate synchronized depolarizing bursts. This synchrony occurs on a time scale of tens of milliseconds and is produced by excitatory synaptic interactions between neurons. The synaptic interactions themselves occur on a time scale of tens of milliseconds. The &quot;epileptiform&quot; local-field potential during such synchronized bursts is comb-shaped (&quot;ringing&quot;), whereas the field potential expected if action potentials in neighboring neurons were uncorrelated is noisy and not comb-shaped. This suggests that individual action potentials are locally synchronized on a time scale of 1 ms. We have previously shown, using computer simulations, that electrical interactions--mediated by currents flowing in the extracellular medium--can plausibly explain action-potential synchronization in experiments where chemical synapses are blocked. The present simulations demonstrate that electrical interactions can also account for action-potential synchronization--and thus the &quot;ringing&quot; shape of the field potential--during epileptiform bursts, where excitatory synapses are functional. The field potential is thus a modulating influence on, as well as a reflection of, underlying neuronal transmembrane events.
High titres of fibroblast growth factor activity (assessed by mitogenicity for Balb/c 3T3 fibroblast cells in vitro) have been extracted from the brains of foetal and neonatal rats long before myelinogenesis commences, from the brains of hypomyelinated, leucodystrophic, murine mutants and from normal adult rats. Partial purification, by ion-exchange chromatography and gel filtration, indicates that the brain fibroblast growth factor activity from these sources is associated with very similar basic protein fractions. These results, together with the observation that none of the samples of partially purified basic fibroblast growth factor elicits the experimental allergic encephalomyelitis response attributed to myelin basic protein in the rat, suggest that basic fibroblast growth factor is not a degradation product of myelin basic protein.
During postnatal development, clusters of cells associated with the mononuclear phagocytic system appear within the white matter of rodents and cats. We studied the distribution and morphology of these cells in the hamster's brain during the first 2 weeks after birth. In animals of different ages, horseradish peroxidase was injected into the heart. After 3-6 h survival, the animals were perfused with aldehydes and had their brains removed, cut and reacted. In another series, fixed brain sections from horseradish peroxidase-injected and non-injected animals were reacted for a non-specific esterase expressed by monocytes and macrophages. The horseradish peroxidase reaction-product was seen throughout the nervous tissue at the first postnatal day, appearing more concentrated in certain brain sectors from postnatal day 3 through 10, to finally become restricted to a few regions at postnatal day 16. Horseradish peroxidase-labeled cells appeared in increasing numbers from postnatal day 1 to 8, decreasing thereafter to disappear completely at postnatal day 16. Some labeled cells were roundish or elliptical with few, if any, processes; others had several clearly detectable processes. Horseradish peroxidase-labelled cells formed clusters within the dorsal subventricular zone, dorsal cortical white matter, corpus callosum and several other prosencephalic fiber tracts. The morphology of esterase-reactive cells was less clearly outlined but their distribution and relative density correlated with those of horseradish peroxidase-labeled cells. Also, many horseradish peroxidase-labeled cells were esterase-positive in most clusters. We conclude that (1) some cells in the developing brain selectively endocytose and accumulate blood-borne horseradish peroxidase in their cytoplasm, (2) these cells do not appear to be neurons but a particular cell type associated to the mononuclear phagocytic system and (3) they cluster transiently in particular sectors of the cortical and subcortical white matter during the first 2 weeks after birth.
The olfactory block to pregnancy in mice is caused by a primer pheromone acting via the accessory olfactory system which projects to the mediobasal hypothalamus via the corticomedial amygdala. Only pheromones from males that are different to those of the stud (strange male pheromones) block pregnancy-hence mating &quot;imprints&quot; recognition of stud male pheromones. The olfactory bulbs receive centrifugal noradrenergic projections from the brainstem via the medial olfactory striae, which terminate in both main and accessory bulbs. Removal of these projections by injection of 6-hydroxydopamine into the striae, 6 days prior to mating, effectively depletes olfactory bulb noradrenaline and results in a failure by the female to recognize the stud male. In this condition the stud male's pheromones now block his own pregnancy. However, removal of noradrenaline after &quot;imprint&quot; formation at mating does not prevent recognition of the study pheromone implying that noradrenaline is required for formation, but not recall of the memory of the stud male's odour. Noradrenaline turnover in the bulbs, after alpha-methylparatyrosine injection, increases after cervical stimulation. Significantly higher rates of turnover are found at 1, 2 and 3 h, but not at 6, 12, 24 or 48 h post-stimulation. This is in accordance with our finding that the minimum time of exposure to the stud male pheromone in order for the memory to be formed lies between 3 and 4.5 h. In those females allowed to remain with the male for 3 h post-coitus, only 30% remain pregnant on the re-introduction to the stud the following day, whereas in females exposed for 4.5 h, 86% remain pregnant.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In a previous paper we demonstrated that the heptapeptide [Met]enkephalyl-Arg6-Phe7 was released from rat striatal slices by high K+ concentration and rapidly degraded by peptidases, even in the presence of the neutral endopeptidase 24.11 (&quot;enkephalinase&quot;)-inhibitor, thiorphan (0.1 microM), the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, captopril (1 microM), and the aminopeptidase inhibitor, bestatin (20 microM). In this study the pattern of degradation of exogenous [3H]heptapeptide by rat striatal slices has been studied. The angiotensin-converting enzyme and aminopeptidase(s) were partly responsible for this degradation. In addition an enzymatic activity that cleaved the Phe4-Met5 bond was involved in the degradation of the heptapeptide by striatal slices. This activity was inhibited by the dipeptide Leu-Arg (1 mM) and the tripeptide Leu-Arg-Leu (1 mM). The simultaneous presence of thiorphan (0.1 microM), captopril (1 microM), bestatin (20 microM) and Leu-Arg (1 mM) almost completely inhibited the degradation of [3H]heptapeptide by striatal slices. In the presence of these peptidase inhibitors a concomitant release of [Met]enkephalin, the heptapeptide [Met]enkephalyl-Arg6-Phe7 and the octapeptide [Met]enkephalyl-Arg6-Gly7-Leu8 was evoked by KCl or veratridine. The K+-evoked release was by a Ca2+-dependent mechanism and the release evoked by veratridine was blocked by tetrodotoxin. In both cases the ratio of [Met]enkephalin to heptapeptide amounts released was close to that found in their common precursor, proenkephalin. Thus the enkephalinergic neuron appears to be capable of synthesizing, from a unique precursor, four different putative opioid neurotransmitters, namely [Met]enkephalin, [Leu]enkephalin, the heptapeptide [Met]enkephalyl-Arg6-Phe7 and the octapeptide [Met]enkephalyl-Arg6-Gly7-Leu8, to store these peptides and to release them upon depolarization.
The integrative role of the ventral striatum in transmitting signals from the hippocampus to the ventral pallidal and subpallidal areas was investigated in urethane-anaesthetized rats using an extracellular single-unit recording technique. Neurones of the nucleus accumbens were first activated by single-pulse stimulation of the ventral subiculum of the hippocampus. Further tests were made to investigate whether these accumbens neurones could be activated antidromically by stimulation of either the ventral pallidal or subpallidal areas. More than 4 times as many accumbens neurones, activated by hippocampal stimulation, responded antidromically to stimulation of subcommissural ventral pallidum than to stimulation of the sublenticular subpallidal area. This observation suggests that the hippocampus has preferential inputs to accumbens efferent neurones which project monosynaptically to the ventral pallidum. Spontaneously active neurones in the ventral pallidum and subpallidal area were inhibited by stimulation of the ventral subiculum of the hippocampus. These inhibitory responses were reduced when glutamic acid diethyl ester, a glutamate antagonist, was microinjected into the medial accumbens, apparently blocking the hippocampal-accumbens glutamatergic synapses to both the ventral pallidal-directed and the subpallidal-directed accumbens efferents. This evidence suggests that signals from the hippocampus reach ventral pallidal and subpallidal regions by way of the nucleus accumbens. The presence of a projection from ventral pallidal and subpallidal regions to the brainstem mesencephalic locomotor region further supports the hypothesis that limbic (e.g. hippocampus) can influence somatomotor activities by way of the nucleus accumbens and its efferent projection to ventral pallidal and subpallidal regions.
Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) has a markedly heterogeneous distribution in the rat bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. The dorsal bed nucleus contains the highest concentration of VIP in the rat brain, with the exception of the suprachiasmatic nucleus, 4-fold higher than the VIP concentration in the frontal cortex. These biochemical findings agree well with the immunohistochemical analysis of this area. The bed nucleus is also a heterogeneous nucleus with respect to the afferent VIP pathways which innervate it. A combination of immunohistochemical and biochemical techniques was used to examine VIP innervation of the bed nucleus after knife cuts designed to interrupt ascending brainstem, stria terminalis and ventral amygdalofugal inputs to the bed nucleus. The results obtained suggest that (1) ascending pathways arising in the mesencephalon at the level of the dorsal raphe nucleus send VIP fibers to the dorsal but not the ventral bed nucleus, (2) afferent VIP fibers which travel to the bed nucleus via the stria terminalis contribute a diffuse VIP innervation to both the dorsal and ventral bed nucleus and (3) a newly described ventral amygdalofugal VIP pathway to the bed nucleus contributes a major input to the dorsal, but not to the ventral bed nucleus. These three pathways probably account for the entire extrinsic VIP input to the bed nucleus. The finding that the bed nucleus is heterogeneous both with respect to VIP content and afferent VIP inputs serves to clarify previous, apparently discrepant, reports that both the stria terminalis and ascending pathways constitute the major VIP input to the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis.
A modeling procedure is proposed which introduces the cable equivalent of dendritic spines into the Rall model of spiny interneurons in the spinal cord. At this point combined morphological and physiological works have given some insight into the possible role of a single spine and the function of a single spine has been studied by theoretical computations [Jack, Noble and Tsien (1975) Electric Current Flow in Excitable Cells, pp. 218-223. Oxford University Press, Oxford; Koch and Poggio (1983) Trends Neurosci. 6, 80-83; Perkel (1983) J. Physiol., Paris 78, 695-699]. The goal of the present paper is two-fold: (a) to stress the gross function of the spine system in the excitability of dendrites; and (b) to emphasize the role of spines in the dynamic input/output function of neurons. The simulation procedure is based on the well-known compartmental method. (1) The kinetics of active somatic and dendritic compartments are taken from a currently available spinal interneuron model to match the physiological data of large dorsal horn neurons carrying spines. (2) Beside the prolongation of the somatic excitatory postsynaptic potential, the model suggests that the spiny neuron increases the differences in the latency and height of excitatory postsynaptic potential as a function of the electrotonic position of input. The characteristics of the excitatory postsynaptic potential can be modified by the changes in spine geometry and the ratio of cytoplasmic resistances of spine stalk to that of main dendritic shaft. (3) Dendritic electroresponsiveness, which was already postulated for dorsal horn neurons, is analysed by the model including calcium and slow potassium systems. It is concluded that the participation of the spine stalk in active processes can highly modify the input dependence of response pattern. Depolarization-dependent Ca2+ accumulation in spines may reflect the interaction of spine stalks. (4) Passive antidromic spread of action potential can be suppressed in spiny cells. Analysis of active antidromic spread shows the probable importance of spines located near the soma. Centripetal vs centrifugal conduction of dendritic action potential may depend on the spine distribution along the tree and change in electrical parameters of spines.
The distribution of neuropeptide Y in the central nervous system of adult male rats was investigated using indirect immunofluorescence, the peroxidase-antiperoxidase technique and by radioimmunoassay of microdissected brain regions. The different methods were in good agreement and showed that neuropeptide Y had a widespread distribution and was present in extremely high concentrations. The highest concentrations of neuropeptide Y were found in the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus and hypothalamic arcuate nucleus, which also contained the highest density of immunoreactive fibers and numbers of perikarya, respectively. The suprachiasmatic nucleus, median eminence, dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus and paraventricular thalamic nucleus showed high concentrations as well as high densities of fibers. Moderate concentrations were found in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, although a high density of fibers was found. Areas with moderate concentrations and densities of fibers were the medial preoptic area, anterior hypothalamic area, periventricular nucleus, posterior hypothalamus and the medial amygdaloid nucleus. The nucleus of the solitary tract contained a low concentration of neuropeptide Y although a high number of immunoreactive perikarya was found in colchicine-treated rats. Low concentrations were also measured in the cerebral cortex, yet relatively high numbers of cell bodies and fibers were found dispersed through the cortex. The extremely high concentrations and widespread distribution of neuropeptide Y in the central nervous system suggests a number of important physiological roles for this neurotransmitter candidate.
Radioimmunoassay was combined with high pressure liquid chromatography and immunohistochemistry to establish the identity of pancreatic polypeptide-like immunoreactive material in the central nervous system of the rat. Antisera to avian pancreatic polypeptide, bovine pancreatic polypeptide, the invariant amidated carboxyterminal hexapeptide fragment of mammalian pancreatic polypeptides and the structurally related peptide, neuropeptide Y, were used immunocytochemically to localize neurons containing immunoreactive pancreatic polypeptide-like material in rat brain. Adjacent brain sections stained by the indirect immunofluorescent technique and single sections from double-staining experiments demonstrated that identical fibers and perikarya stained for pancreatic polypeptide-like immunoreactive material by antisera directed against each of the four peptides. Characterization of pancreatic polypeptide-like immunoreactive material in chromatographed rat brain extracts by radioimmunoassay using antisera to either neuropeptide Y or the carboxy-terminal portion of the pancreatic polypeptide molecule revealed that the major peak of immunoreactive material, as measured by either assay, appeared to co-elute with synthetic porcine neuropeptide Y. A minor peak of immunoreactive material co-eluting with peptide YY standard was indicated by the neuropeptide Y radioimmunoassay. This was contrasted by data obtained from chromatographic profiles of rat pancreas, which showed that the main immunoreactive peak, as measured by the neuropeptide Y assay, co-eluted with porcine peptide YY, with a minor peak co-eluting with porcine neuropeptide Y. The main peak of immunoreactive material in pancreas, as measured by the pancreatic polypeptide carboxy-terminal radioimmunoassay, eluted considerably earlier than standard peptide YY, neuropeptide Y and bovine pancreatic polypeptide, and is probably identical to rat pancreatic polypeptide.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Previously it was found that grafts of supraoptic plus paraventricular areas from 19-day-old foetal normal rats survived in the third ventricle of the brain of 4- to 6-day-old, vasopressin-deficient Brattleboro pups, but could not alleviate their polyuria. In the present series, factors important in graft development were analysed. Again using day-19 fetuses as donors, anterohypothalamus grafts as well as grafts placed near a crushed median eminence survived relatively poorly, but showed the presence of vasopressin neurons immunocytochemically one month post-grafting. Homotopic grafting in the supraoptic nucleus, however, even failed to show surviving vasopressin neurons. Graft survival was improved by the use of donor tissue of fetuses younger than day 19. Parvocellular vasopressin cells were frequently seen, organized into clusters resembling the normal suprachiasmatic nucleus. However, magnocellular neurons, as normally seen in supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei, only survived grafting when taken between days 11 and 15 of fetal age. It was concluded that only immature vasopressin neurons survived grafting under the condition employed. Magnocellular neurons had a limited fiber outgrowth into the host brain and median eminence. Most large neurons only stained with non-specific neurophysin antiserum, not with specific vasopressin-associated neurophysin antiserum. Thin fibers of the parvocellular vasopressin neurons provided only occasional and sparse innervation of the host median eminence and lateral septum (one case), but several examples of massive fiber bundles running dorsally from graft into host brain were observed. These fibers terminated in the thalamic periventricular area, a nucleus that is normally innervated by the vasopressin neurons of the suprachiasmatic nucleus. The failure of the grafts to provide adequate vasopressinergic innervation of the host median eminence probably explains why none of the nearly 200 Brattleboro neonates operated upon showed any sign of relief of their diabetes insipidus. It suggests, however, that the present procedures might be useful in restoring central vasopressinergic functions in the developing Brattleboro rat.
With the purpose of delineating the neural pathways in the rat which mediate adrenocortical responses following frontal cortex stimulation, the effects of partial hypothalamic deafferentations and medial forebrain bundle lesion were studied. In intact and sham-operated animals, cortical stimulation through permanently implanted electrodes caused a significant increase in plasma corticosterone levels. In rats with anterior hypothalamic deafferentation and bilateral medial forebrain bundle lesions the adrenal response to cortical stimulation was blocked completely, while in animals with posterior hypothalamic deafferentation there occurred a normal rise in plasma corticosterone. These studies demonstrate that the frontal cortex effects on adrenocortical secretion are neurally mediated and involve an anterior hypothalamic input, more specifically the medial forebrain bundle.
Bilateral electrolytic lesions of some somatosensory structures in the thalamus and spinal cord were made in order to assess their participation in the afferent limb of the milk-ejection reflex in the rat. Lesions involving the lateral cervical nucleus and a part of the dorsolateral funiculus region blocked the milk-ejection reflex, whereas animals with lesions in the dorsal column of the spinal cord or in the ventroposterior complex of the thalamus displayed milk-ejection reflexes similar to those of control animals. Unilateral injections of horseradish peroxidase coupled to wheat germ agglutinin were made after lesioning the lateral cervical nucleus and part of the dorsolateral funiculus. Anterograde labelling was seen mainly contralateral to the injection site: in the external nucleus of the inferior colliculus, the intercollicular zone, the brachium of the inferior colliculus, the lateral reticular nucleus of the thalamus and in the thalamic ventroposterior complex. Sparse projections ipsilateral to the injection site were also observed. These results, combined with our previous observations, suggest that the projection of the lateral cervical nucleus on the mesencephalon is part of the pathway which conveys the sensory information from the suckling stimulus.
Bilateral electrolytic lesions and unilateral tracer injections were performed in lactating rats in order to study the participation of the mesencephalic lateral tegmentum in the milk-ejection reflex. The release of oxytocin was detected as a rise in intramammary pressure during each milk ejection. In animals with lesions, the lateral part of the deep grey layers of the superior colliculus, the intercollicular area and the rostromedial portion of the external nucleus of the inferior colliculus were destroyed. The mesencephalic lateral tegmentum of animals in which the milk-ejection reflex was blocked sustained a larger damage than in rats where the frequency of the milk-ejection response was only slowed down. Solutions of True Blue, horseradish peroxidase or horseradish peroxidase coupled to wheat germ agglutinin were injected in the mesencephalic lateral tegmentum of rats with and without lesions. Retrogradely labelled cells were found in several nuclei of the somatosensory pathways: the principal sensory and spinal parts of the trigeminal complex, the cuneate and gracile nuclei, the lateral cervical nucleus and the nucleus proprius of the spinal cord. Labelled cells were also found in the ventral nucleus of the lateral lemniscus, the ventral parabrachial nucleus, the gigantocellular reticular nucleus, the lateral nucleus of the substantia nigra, the prerubral nucleus of the thalamus, the hypothalamic ventromedial nucleus, the zona incerta and in the anterior and lateral hypothalamic areas. Labelled fibres and &quot;terminal-like&quot; labelling were found in the anterior pretectal area, in the thalamic parafascicular nucleus, in the posterior nucleus and the ventroposterior complex, in the zona incerta and in the fields of Forel, but none were observed in the supraoptic or paraventricular nuclei. Injections made in the area of the lateral cervical nucleus and in the cuneate and gracile nuclei labelled fibres and &quot;terminal-like&quot; fields in the external nucleus of the inferior colliculus, the intercollicular area, the deep grey layers of the superior colliculus and in the mesencephalic lateral tegmentum. After injections in the posterior nucleus and ventroposterior complex of the thalamus, retrogradely labelled cells were found in the lateral tegmentum, the intercollicular area and the external nucleus of the inferior colliculus. These results indicate that bilateral lesioning of the mesencephalic lateral tegmentum, which disrupts the milk-ejection response, could damage somatosensory projections originating from the dorsal horn of the spinal cord, the lateral cervical nucleus, the dorsal column nuclei and the sensory and spinal trigeminal nuclei.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Crude synaptic membranes isolated from calf brain cortex were subjected to an aqueous two-phase system and the partition of the various membrane constituents and activities between the phases were studied. These constituents were phosphate, cholesterol and protein. The activities measured were acetyl-cholinesterase, succinate dehydrogenase, 2',3'-cyclicnucleotide-3'-phosphohydrolase and stereospecific opiate-binding. The successful fractionation of the membranes was achieved by the use of an aqueous two-phase system in a counter-current distribution process. A ligand bound to poly(ethylene glycol) with an affinity for opiate receptors was synthesized by reacting 6-aminonaloxone with tresylpoly(ethylene glycol). The ligand-polymer was used to extract membrane-bound opiate receptors into the upper, poly(ethylene glycol)-rich phase. This use of affinity partitioning resulted in membrane fractions with a 3-4 fold higher ability to bind stereospecifically etorphine than the original preparations of synaptic membranes.
Levels of prodynorphin- and proenkephalin-derived peptides were determined in whole hippocampus of prenatal and early postnatal rats and in five regions of the hippocampus of the adult rat. Using autoradiography, opioid receptor subtypes were localized in coronal sections of adult hippocampus. The opioid peptides are present in very low concentrations in prenatal hippocampus, with only dynorphin B and alpha-neo-endorphin being present in significant amounts. The main increase in concentrations of the opioid peptides occur between day 7 and 14 postnatally, when dynorphin A, dynorphin A-(1-8), dynorphin B and alpha-neo-endorphin reach their adult levels. beta-Neo-endorphin and [Met]enkephalyl-Arg-Gly-Leu do not reach their maximal level until later in development. There is a distinct differential distribution of the opioid peptides in the subregions of the hippocampus; the subiculum and CA1 are relatively poor in prodynorphin-derived peptides but do contain significant amounts of [Met]enkephalin and [Leu]enkephalin. Very high concentrations of dynorphin B and alpha-neo-endorphin are present in region CA4. Dynorphin A-(1-8) and [Met]enkephalin have their highest concentrations in the dentate gyrus. There is a 5-fold higher concentration of [Met]enkephalin in the ventral hippocampus compared to the dorsal hippocampus. A similar trend is seen with dynorphin A-(1-8) but not with the other opioid peptides. The most abundant opioid receptor population in the hippocampus is of the mu type and it is densest in and around stratum pyramidale of the region CA3. There are relatively few kappa opioid receptors in the rat hippocampus. These results indicate the presence of at least two independent opioid neuronal systems (enkephalin and dynorphin) in rat hippocampus and the presence of mu-, delta- and kappa-opioid receptor subtypes.
New dopaminergic terminal fields have been visualized in the rat cerebral neocortex, using two morphological methods based on distinct properties of the dopaminergic system: presence of the first synthetic enzyme, tyrosine hydroxylase, and high-affinity uptake of amines. Tyrosine hydroxylase was used as an immunocytochemical marker after destruction of the cortical noradrenergic system, induced either neonatally by 6-hydroxydopamine or later on by DSP4, and controlled by the absence of dopamine beta-hydroxylase immunoreactivity. The uptake and storage of exogenous amines in tissue sections, in the presence of selective high-affinity transport inhibitors, enabled the specific visualization of the dopaminergic system with fluorescence histochemistry. A dopaminergic innervation of low density was observed along a dorsal sagittal strip which extended from the genu of corpus callosum until about 2 mm behind the splenium and encompassed several distinct cytoarchitectonic areas in the sensorimotor and visual cortex (medial and lateral agranular field, area 18b), as well as in discrete zones of the retrosplenial granular 29c,b, and agranular 29d areas. The distribution of these dopaminergic fields suggested a columnar organization. Several characteristics of the dopaminergic innervation were similar to that of the superficial anterior cingulate cortex (area 24): the laminar distribution to the superficial I-III layers, the secondarily developed varicose aspect in catecholamine fluorescence histochemistry and the delayed postnatal ingrowth in contrast with the early prenatal dopaminergic input to the prefrontal cortex. These similarities suggested that the subpopulation of dopaminergic neurons which provides projections to the anterior cingulate cortex could also contribute to the motor and visual cortex and thus play a role in sensorimotor integration. The predictive value of these results in the ascent of the phylogenetic scale are further considered.

The postnatal development of brain alpha 1-adrenergic receptors was studied in the rat brain using in vitro autoradiography. In some regions, such as the globus pallidus, receptor-binding sites were present at birth and increased during the first week but then decreased to very low levels by adulthood. In contrast, other regions such as the olfactory bulb and cerebral cortex exhibited little binding at birth, with a subsequent increase in receptors during the second week of life that persisted into the mature stage. Several regions had an intermediate pattern with significant labelling at birth, an increase in the first few weeks and a smaller decrement in binding sites as adulthood was approached. The data suggested that there were two archetypal development patterns, one of which was potentially related to the arrival of noradrenergic nerve projections (olfactory bulb) and the other of which was determined intrinsically by differentiation (globus pallidus). The two patterns could be distinguished by their sensitivity to alpha-difluoromethylornithine, a drug that inhibits ornithine decarboxylase, leading to a slowing of cellular replication, differentiation and migration. Drug treatment dramatically delayed the developmental fall-off of binding in the globus pallidus such that receptor sites remained in high concentration well past the point at which they disappeared in control animals. In the olfactory bulb, however, alpha-difluoromethylornithine had little or no effect on the ontogeny of receptor binding. These studies provide evidence that alpha 1-adrenergic receptors in various brain regions develop at different rates and with at least two characteristic patterns. Autoradiographic techniques provide important insights into receptor development that cannot be garnered from biochemical methods using isolated membrane preparations.
Somatostatin receptor-binding sites have been visualized by autoradiography in the rat central nervous system and the pituitary using the [Tyr3] derivative of the stable octapeptide somatostatin analogue SMS 201-995, code named 204-090 (sequence in text), which has been shown to label specifically high-affinity somatostatin receptors in brain homogenates. Receptors are particularly concentrated in the deeper layers of the cerebral cortex and large areas of the limbic system are rich in somatostatin receptors, in particular the hippocampus (CA1, CA2, dentate gyrus), most amygdaloid nuclei, the medial habenula and the septum. Parts of the olfactory, visual and auditory, as well as visceral and somatic sensory systems are heavily labelled, in particular the anterior olfactory nucleus and tubercle, the superior and inferior colliculi, the nucleus of the solitary tract, the substantia gelatinosa of the spinal cord and the spinal trigeminal nucleus. It is of interest that the central grey and locus coeruleus are also substantially labelled with [125I]204-090. Striatum has moderate amounts of somatostatin receptors, distributed in a patchy and heterogeneous way. Cerebellum and substantia nigra are virtually devoid of somatostatin receptors. The described receptors are likely to represent the molecular target for a variety of pharmacological actions of somatostatin in the central nervous system and they emphasize the role played by somatostatin as a neuropeptide in this organ.
The cellular uptake and laminar distribution of tritium-labeled gamma-aminobutyrate, aspartate, glutamate and glycine were examined in the primary visual cortex of squirrel monkeys. The purpose was to correlate the distribution of these labeled neurons with their level of cytochrome oxidase activity, particularly in laminae II-III (puffs) and adjacent non-puff regions. In general, tritium-labeled neurons that had either high or low levels of cytochrome oxidase activity were present in all laminae with each amino acid tested; however, their density varied between laminae and with the amino acid injected. Specifically, in laminae II-III, very few neurons were labelled with either of the putative excitatory amino acids (aspartate and glutamate). An increased uptake for both was observed in lamina IVC, with the greatest increase for each occurring in laminae V and VI. Significantly more neurons in each lamina were labeled with the putative inhibitory transmitters (gamma-aminobutyrate and glycine) than with either aspartate or glutamate. gamma-Aminobutyrate-labeled neurons were more prevalent in lamina II than III, and an increase in labeling was observed in laminae IV-VI, with the most prominent increase found in laminae V and VI. Glycine-labeled neurons were larger, more uniformly distributed and more abundant throughout all cortical laminae than those labeled with the other amino acids. Significantly more gamma-aminobutyrate- and glycine-labeled neurons were found in the puff regions than in the non-puff areas. No difference was found between puff and non-puff regions for the tritium-labeled leucine controls. Labeled neurons included stellate, fusiform and pyramidal-shaped cells of varying sizes; however, gamma-aminobutyrate-labeled pyramidal cells were not observed outside of the intense injection site. Large glycine-labeled cytochrome-oxidase-reactive pyramidal cells (24-32 micron in diameter) were present at the boundary between laminae V and VI. In addition, a row of large glycine-labeled, fusiform neurons were present in lamina IVB. With each amino acid injected, the tritium-labeled neurons that were darkly reactive for cytochrome oxidase were, on average, larger than the tritium-labeled neurons that were only lightly reactive for cytochrome oxidase. Thus, each of the four amino acids tested had its unique pattern of distribution in the primate striate cortex. Whether one or all of them served as neurotransmitter(s) for distinct neuronal groups is beyond the scope of this study. Glycine, in particular, might be used in part or in whole for metabolic purposes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
This immunocytochemical study, using a double-staining method, showed that calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactive structures are widely distributed in the peripheral nervous system and that many of them coexist with substance P-like immunoreactive structures in single sensory ganglion cells. Neurons positive for calcitonin gene-related peptide but negative for substance P were detected in sensory ganglia. These cells were large (about 30-45 micron in diameter); these primary sensory neurons containing calcitonin gene-related peptide can probably act independently of substance P. There were neurons containing calcitonin gene-related peptide without substance P in the pterygopalatine ganglion, although these cells were less numerous than in the sensory ganglia. In consecutive sections, calcitonin gene-related peptide-like structures occurred in thyroid parafollicular cells, which also contain calcitonin. This suggested that messenger RNA for producing calcitonin gene-related peptide is also present in the thyroid, and like calcitonin, calcitonin gene-related peptide may have a peripheral physiological role.
The distribution and localization of neuromedin B, a novel bombesin-like decapeptide isolated from porcine spinal cord, was investigated by newly established radioimmunoassay and immunocytochemistry in the pig, cat and rat spinal cord. Neuromedin B-like immunoreactivity was found to be concentrated particularly in the dorsal part of lumbosacral segments in all species studied and the highest concentration of immunoreactivity was 25.7 +/- 3.4 pmol/g wet wt in the dorsal part of sacral region of pig spinal cord. The nature of the immunoreactivity was studied by gel permeation and high pressure liquid chromatography. Chromatography of spinal cord extracts from three species revealed two major peaks of neuromedin B-like immunoreactivity and the prevalent molecular from co-eluted with synthetic porcine neuromedin B. Immunocytochemistry localized neuromedin B immunoreactivity to fibres and terminals throughout the entire length of the spinal cord of pig, cat and rat. Fibres were most abundant in laminae I and II of the dorsal horn, the area around the central canal (lamina X) and intermediolateral cell columns of thoracic and sacral segments. In lumbosacral segments neuromedin B-immunoreactive fibres were slightly more numerous, in both dorsal and ventral spinal cord, than in cervical and thoracic regions.
An immunocytochemical analysis with 33 antisera was undertaken to investigate the localization of 25 different neurotransmitter-related antigens in the hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus in the rat. To obtain estimates of relative densities of immunoreactive axons a stereological approach was used involving counting of intersections of immunoreactive axons with a superimposed semi-circle test grid. All neurotransmitter-related antigens found in perikarya within the suprachiasmatic nucleus, including those stained with antisera against bombesin, gastrin-releasing peptide, neurophysin, vasopressin, somatostatin, gamma-aminobutyrate, glutamate decarboxylase and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide were also found in axons within the nucleus. A greater number of these immunoreactive axons was found within the nucleus than in the adjacent anterior hypothalamus. The size of all immunoreactive axons in the suprachiasmatic nucleus was consistently small; immunoreactive axons were found ramifying widely in the nucleus, often ending with terminal boutons near perikarya immunoreactive for the same antigen. All neurotransmitter-related substances found in perikarya of the suprachiasmatic nucleus were also found in axons crossing over the midline to innervate the contralateral nucleus, providing an anatomical substrate for a high degree of communication between the paired nuclei. Axons immunoreactive for other putative transmitters including serotonin arising outside the nucleus were also found in high densities within the nucleus and crossing over the midline between the nuclei. Immunoreactivity for some transmitters was found in axons of similar densities within and outside the nucleus, including antisera against tyrosine hydroxylase; a small number of dopamine beta-hydroxylase and a few phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase-immunoreactive axons were found in the SCN, suggesting that dopamine, norepinephrine and epinephrine may occur in a limited number of axons in the nucleus. Small numbers of axons immunoreactive with antisera raised against cholecystokinin, prolactin, substance P, thyrotropin-releasing hormone and choline acetyltransferase were found within the suprachiasmatic nucleus. Axons immunoreactive for luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone, adrenocorticotropic hormone, alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone and neurotensin were rarely found within the suprachiasmatic nucleus; axons immunoreactive for luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone, adrenocorticotropic hormone, cholecystokinin and tyrosine hydroxylase were found in both horizontal and coronal sections in the area between the left and right suprachiasmatic nuclei.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)


The current paper explains a model of subcortical language functions that focuses on dynamic interactions between the cortex, the thalamus, and the basal ganglia in the production of spoken language. The model was derived from (a) studies of subcortical lesions and language, (b) studies of subcortical stimulation and language, (c) knowledge regarding neural pathways between various cortical and subcortical structures, and (d) indications that preverbal monitoring of language occurs. In the current model, the thalamus plays roles in cortical arousal and activation and in preverbal semantic monitoring. The basal ganglia function to regulate the degree of excitation conveyed from the thalamus to the cortex and to time the release of formulated language for motor programming. Consistency with classical syndromes of aphasia and potential applications to other areas in the neurosciences are discussed. The current theory, unlike previous formulations, is specific enough that testable hypotheses can be derived.

The neurophysiologic monitoring of interventional neuroradiologic procedures is a new field of intraoperative monitoring. Interventional neuroradiology makes use of different diagnostic or therapeutic catheterization techniques in both cerebral and spinal cord arteries. Both procedures can be made more secure by monitoring of EEG or evoked potentials. Using the advantages of the different catheter techniques, such as series of balloon occlusions or injections of drugs or contrast dye, the neuroradiologist and the neurophysiologist are able to plan and test the next steps of an interventional maneuver. The results and implications of neuromonitoring during occluding maneuvers of the internal carotid artery, during local fibrinolytic therapy, during embolization procedures of cerebral or spinal arteries, malformations, or tumors, and during drug application are discussed and illustrated.


The antecedents of the International Society for Neurochemistry are described, especially the parts played by the International Neurochemical Symposia held between 1954 and 1962; the Journal of Neurochemistry between 1956 and 1965; and by other organizations concerned with neural systems though not primarily neurochemical. Description is also given of the foundation of the Society in 1965 and of its first International Meeting in 1967.
Placing neurons in tissue culture is one way to study how environmental factors affect their differentiation. Replacement of serum-supplementation of the culture medium with defined ingredients extends the experimenter's control of the culture environment; however it also introduces additional potential influences. In this report, we confirm the observation of Higgins and Burton (Higgins, D., and H. Burton (1982) Neuroscience 7:2241-2253) of increased frequency of electrical coupling in serum-free compared to serum-supplemented cultures of rat sympathetic neurons. In addition, experiments were performed to determine whether this effect results from the removal of serum or from the addition of the defined medium components to the culture environment. The results of testing individual ingredients of the defined medium recipe adapted for use on sympathetic neurons (Bottenstein, J.E., and G. H. Sato (1979) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 76:514-517) show that insulin is capable of inducing electrical coupling in serum-free cultures. Thus, the formation of electrical synapses by sympathetic neurons can be hormonally regulated.
We describe a circuit that compensates for a slowly drifting baseline without distorting the signal of interest. Implementation of this non-linear filter is quite simple; total cost of components is less than $20.00. The baseline stabilizer should be especially useful for intracellular recording and for recording evoked surface potentials.
The stimulator allows textured surfaces to be moved sinusoidally across the skin of the fingerpad. Sinusoidal motion is produced by a &quot;scotch yolk&quot; driven by a DC motor. The amplitude of movement is adjustable up to a maximum of 80 mm peak to peak and the frequency is continuously adjustable from 0.1 Hz to 2.0 Hz. Movement of the surface is monitored by an optical transducer and contact force between the finger and the surface is monitored by a strain gauge bridge. The stimulator is simple and robust and is suitable for both neurophysiological and psychophysical experiments in animals and humans.
Measurements of the thickness of a thick histological section or the depth of an object within the section, can be made most easily by reading differences in the setting of the fine focus knob of a compound light microscope. Two corrections must be made to such measurements: (1) when using a dry objective, a factor of 1.5 for the index of refraction of the specimen, and (2) a correction for the calibration of the fine focus itself. In addition, several precautions should be taken to minimize errors in the readings.

The effect of olfactory placode transplantation on the differentiation of the optic vesicle and stalk has been studied in Xenopus laevis embryos. Host embryos (stages 23-24) received the transplant of two olfactory placodes from same-stage donors in place of a partially or totally removed optic vesicle. All tadpoles were sacrificed at stages 47-50. The host tadpoles were subdivided in three groups according to the amount of optic vesicle removed. In the first group all of the optic vesicle was removed. At sacrifice a lobar mass of nervous tissue, continuous with and protruding from the diencephalic wall, was penetrated by the olfactory nerves from the transplanted placodes and a well-defined glomerular layer was present at the entrance zone of the olfactory nerves. The lobar protrusion contained a normal ventricular cavity, connected by a foramen to the third ventricle. The ventricle was lined by a mitotically active ependymal layer. In the second group the host embryos were deprived of two-thirds of the optic vesicle. In these animals we observed the development of a round mass of nervous tissue connected by a peduncle to the diencephalic wall. A ventricle lined by ependyma was present in the formation; however, the cavity was not continuous with the third ventricle. Olfactory nerves from the transplanted placodes penetrated the rostral portion of the nervous mass and formed a distinct glomerular layer. In the third group of embryos only one-third of the optic vesicle was removed. These animals developed irregularly shaped structures where ocular tissue and nervous tissue coexisted. The termination of the supranumerary olfactory nerves and the glomerular layer were restricted to the non-ocular nervous tissue. The interpretation of the histogenetic phenomena determining the protrusions is difficult and further studies are needed. It seems highly probable, however, that the fate of such determined structures as the optic peduncle and vesicle can be influenced by the olfactory input, supporting the hypothesis that the ectopically directed olfactory fibres interfere with the differentiation of the optic structures.
The monoclonal antibody 217c, raised by Peng et al. [(1982) Science, Wash. 215, 1102-1104] in mice against the rat glioma cell line C6, can be used as a marker for normal Schwann cells. In mixed cultures of Schwann cells and fibroblasts from neonatal rat sciatic nerve, this monoclonal antibody, detected by indirect immunofluorescence, bound to the surface of cells with the same elongated morphology as those that express a previously described surface antigen, rat neural antigen-1 (Ran-1), defined by polyclonal mouse antisera. In these experiments Ran-1 and the antigenic determinant recognized by monoclonal 217c were both found on normal rat Schwann cells and on the rat glial tumor cell lines C6, 33B and 21A and the pheochromocytoma PC12. Neither anti-Ran-1 nor the monoclonal antibody bound to neurons, fibroblasts or glial cells in newborn rat cerebellum cultures, the rat muscle cell line L6, the transformed rat fibroblast cell line Rat 1, the rat brain tumor cell line B28 or the mouse Schwannoma cell line TR6B. Thus the monoclonal 217c behaved as if it were detecting Ran-1 by binding to normal rat Schwann cells and to those tumor cells that have this antigen. Our data show that this monoclonal antibody is a reliable and convenient marker for rat Schwann cells in culture.
Retinal ganglion cells with ipsilaterally projecting axons were labelled with horseradish peroxidase injected unilaterally along the optic pathway in adult rats. Unoperated controls were compared with three groups of animals operated at birth, given (a) contralateral enucleation, (b) contralateral lesion to the optic tract or (c) both lesions simultaneously. The numbers of ipsilaterally projecting cells were increased in all three operated groups, presumably because of a reduction in natural neuronal death following diminished terminal and dendritic competition. The pattern of increase of labelled cell density varied with the type of lesion: enucleation led to a major increase within lower temporal retina; optic tract lesion caused its major increase in upper temporal retina, centred at the location of the area centralis; and the double lesion combined both effects above. The distribution of cell-body sizes was differentially affected by the lesions: enucleation led to a shift in the distribution towards the small cell side of the spectrum, when compared with the controls; optic tract lesion shifted the distribution towards the large cell side of the spectrum, but only outside the temporal crescent; and the double lesion led to a shift towards small cells within the temporal crescent and towards large cells outside the crescent, again combining the effects of the single lesions. Large alpha-like neurones with ipsilateral axons were common in the nasal retina of both groups given optic tract lesions but they were rare in the nasal retina of unoperated and, especially, of enucleated rats. The limits of the temporal crescent were unchanged, notwithstanding the large numbers of cells outside the crescent in operated rats. It is suggested that postnatal competitive interactions at the level of terminals and of dendrites control natural neuronal death in the rat retina with different requirements regarding retinal topography and ganglion cell types. The postnatal regulation of neuronal numbers is not responsible for the generation of the nasotemporal division but may be involved in the development of differential distributions of specific ganglion cell types across the retina.
The projections from the medullary and spinal dorsal horns to the dorsolateral pons were investigated in the cat utilizing both the retrograde and anterograde transport of a wheat germ agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase complex and the retrograde transport of the fluorescent dyes Fast Blue and Nuclear Yellow. After injections of wheat germ agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase into the area surrounding the brachium conjunctivum, numerous neurons were labeled ipsilaterally near levels of the obex in the paratrigeminal nucleus. Such neurons were located in connected pockets of neuropil located within the spinal trigeminal tract and along its medial edge. Most of the neurons labeled in the dorsal horns after such injections were found in lamina I. Those found in the medullary dorsal horn were mostly ipsilateral to the injection while those in the spinal dorsal horn were found bilaterally. Some labeled neurons were also found in lamina V of both the medullary and spinal dorsal horns bilaterally. When the injection was centered in either the medial parabrachial nucleus or the Kolliker-Fuse nucleus, a greater number of neurons were labeled ipsilaterally in lamina V of the medullary dorsal horn. Since neurons in lamina I of the medullary dorsal horn also project to the medial thalamus, fluorescent dyes were used to determine if the same neuron might project to both targets. Fast Blue was first injected into either the peribrachial area or the medial thalamus. After an appropriate period, Nuclear Yellow was injected into that target not injected first with Fast Blue. The injection of Nuclear Yellow was always placed on the side of the brain opposite to the first injection. Both dyes were transported retrogradely and were found in neurons located in lamina I of the medullary dorsal horn. However, no double-labeled neurons were seen. In general those labeled after injections of the medial thalamus were more superficial than those labeled after injections of the dorsolateral pons. The anterograde transport of wheat germ agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase was used to determine the termination of the projections from neurons in the medulary dorsal horn and the cervical spinal cord to the peribrachial area. After injections into these areas a moderate to sparse labeling of the lateral parabrachial nucleus and the Kolliker-Fuse nucleus was seen. It was mostly ipsilateral in cases with injections of the medullary dorsal horn but was bilateral following injections into the cervical enlargement.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Antidromically driven action potentials were recorded from norepinephrine-containing locus coeruleus neurons in response to electrical stimulation of cerebrocortical and thalamic areas in anesthetized squirrel monkeys. These cells reliably conducted impulses from cortical sites of distances up to 100 mm from locus coeruleus. Monkey locus coeruleus neurons were found to exhibit several properties previously described for these cells in rat, including slow spontaneous discharge rates, characteristic impulse waveforms, antidromic activation from many target areas, a period of suppressed activity following either antidromic or orthodromic driving and responsiveness to noxious stimuli presented as subcutaneous electrical stimulation of a rear foot. However, a large population of monkey locus coeruleus neurons was found to exhibit more rapid conduction velocities than previously found for rat (e.g. approximately 34% were greater than 1 m/s), resulting in similar conduction latencies to distant target areas in the two species. This indicates that the conduction times required for locus coeruleus impulses to reach distant target areas may be conserved across different species and sizes of brains, suggesting that these latencies play an important role in the general function of the locus coeruleus system in brain and behavioral processes.
Activity from a number of neighboring neurons can be recorded simultaneously with multichannel microelectrodes. A new version of a 24-channel microelectrode system has been fabricated and used to record different types of neurophysiological data in the rat brain. The system called PRONG (Parallel Recording Of Neural Groups) includes a microelectrode, a lightweight reusable connector, a 24-channel FET-hybrid preamplifier, a 3-band 24-channel amplifier, a 24-channel spike monitor, high-speed digital and analog interfaces and a computer. The electrode-recording locations are arranged in 2 arrays of 12 sites. The arrays are spaced 100 micron apart along either edge of the recording section and the sites within each array are spaced 120 micron apart. The electrodes are fabricated using photolithography in patterned layers totaling 17 micron thick and 114 micron wide in the recording section. The recording sites are 20 micron2 and are plated with platinum black. Performance of the PRONG was compared with that of conventional single microelectrodes and with results in the literature on three kinds of extracellular activity in the rat hippocampal formation and olfactory bulb: action potentials, evoked field potentials and slow-wave activity. The selectivity and sensitivity of the PRONG compared favorably with characteristics of conventional electrodes. Background noise averaged 15 microV and no signal cross talk was observed between neighboring channels. Discriminable action potentials (signal-to-noise ratios of 2:1 to 15:1) were observed at 37-95% of the viable recording sites with a maximum of 19 units in one recording. Units were observed in waking animals for up to 4 days. The waveforms, firing repertoires and laminar distribution of units were the same as those recorded with conventional microelectrodes. This indicates that penetration by the PRONG spares tissue from functional damage. &quot;Instant&quot; laminar profiles were created for commissural and perforant path evoked potentials in the hippocampal formation. These profiles were nearly identical with those created by successive recordings made with conventional microelectrodes. Laminar profiles and behavioral activity appeared to be &quot;normal&quot; as collected with this electrode. These results set the foundation for use of the PRONG as a tool for the study of local neural interactions.
The prefrontal cortex of mammals is densely innervated with dopaminergic fibers. We report a comparable, dense network of catecholamine (probably dopamine)-containing fluorescent fibers in the posterodorsolateral neostriatum of the pigeon. This region is clearly separable from paleostriatum augmentatum, lobus parolfactorius, posterior archistriatum, posteromedial corticoid and septum, all of which also show strong catecholamine fluorescence. Parallel biochemical, anatomical and neurobehavioral data support the suggestion that posterodorsolateral neostriatum in the pigeon may be comparable to the mammalian prefrontal cortex. Thus the telencephalic tissue represented as the prefrontal cortex in mammals and the posterodorsolateral neostriatum in the pigeon, may turn out to be a phylogenetically ancient neural device.
The topographic organization of the projections from the amygdaloid complex to the frontal (motor, premotor and prefrontal) cortex has been investigated in the cat by means of the horseradish peroxidase retrograde transport technique. While most of these projections arise from the magnocellular component of the basal nucleus, some arise also from other nuclei, such as the parvocellular basal nucleus, the corticoamygdaloid transition area and the cortical nucleus. The projections from the latter nuclei are directed to the central portions of the prefrontal cortex, both laterally and medially. No clear-cut topographic segregation appeared to exist in the distribution within the magnocellular basal nucleus of the cells of origin of projections to the motor, premotor and prefrontal cortex. The gross topographic arrangement of the amygdalocortical projections seems to reciprocate, to some extent at least, the organization of corticoamygdaloid projections from high-order sensory and polymodal association areas.
A reappraisal of the relationship between length summation and receptive field length assessed by the minimum response field method, was made in complex cells recorded from the lightly anaesthetized feline striate cortex. This relationship has previously been proposed by Gilbert [(1977) J. Physiol., Lond. 268, 391-421] and subsequently applied extensively by others, as a basis for subdividing complex cells into different functional groups: &quot;standard&quot; complex cells length summate, responding preferentially to long contours of appropriate orientation; &quot;special&quot; complex cells respond optimally to short oriented contours). Quantitative comparisons suggest that four-fifths of complex cells can be classified by their length summatory behaviour. Thus length summatory behaviour is a useful adjunct to classification, although one-in-five complex cells cannot be positively assigned to either category and this figure rises to one-in-three following rigid application of the criteria for determining standard complex cells. The need for precise estimates of length summation is emphasized by subjective assessment which leads to greater uncertainty in classification and to several cells being wrongly assigned. The possibility that cells unclassified by length summation constitute a distinct additional class is discussed.
The sources of ipsilateral cortical afferent projections to regions along both banks of the principalis sulcus in the prefrontal cortex were studied with horseradish peroxidase in macaque monkeys. The principalis cortex receives a substantial proportion of its projections from neighboring prefrontal regions. However, differences were noted in the distribution of labeled cells projecting to the various principalis regions. These differences were most marked with respect to the relative proportion of cells originating in visual, auditory, somatosensory, premotor and limbic cortical areas. The findings indicate that the caudal ventral principalis region receives projections from both visual and visuomotor regions, whereas the anterior tip of the principalis appears to be the major target of projections from auditory association regions. The ventral bank at the middle extent of the principalis was the only case with a significant proportion of labeled cells in somatosensory association and premotor regions. There was a consistent increase in the proportion of labeled cells in limbic cortical areas projecting to more rostral principalis sites, irrespective of whether the injection was placed in the dorsal or ventral bank. These findings suggest that the caudal principalis region has a visual-visuomotor and the rostral, an auditory-limbic bias with respect to the long projections they receive.
Using immunohistochemistry on stretch-prepared whole mounts of adult rat irides, a dense, well-organized plexus of neurofilament-positive nerves originating in the trigeminal ganglion can be visualized. Such a two-dimensional tissue preparation is well-suited for studies on sensory and autonomic nerve fiber growth. In the present study the growth capacity of such neurofilament-positive nerves has been studied immunohistochemically. In irides homologously transplanted to the anterior eye chamber of adult albino rats, the intrinsic neurofilament-positive network had almost completely disappeared 4 days postoperatively. In whole mounts of iris grafts after 15 days and 4 weeks in oculo a gradually increasing plexus of nerves was observed. After 3.5 months in oculo a dense, regular network of fluorescent fibers had formed in the iris grafts to the same magnitude as in situ. However, whereas large axon bundles constituted a prominent feature of the distribution of neurofilament-positive nerves in situ, only a few and relatively thin axon bundles were seen in the grafts. The growth capacity of the neurofilament-positive trigeminal nerves was also studied by grafting fetal trigeminal ganglia to the anterior eye chamber. As visualized in cryostat sections, trigeminal grafts contained a large number of strongly fluorescent perikarya and a high density of positive fibers after intraocular maturation. Such grafts readily innervated the host iris. In the area immediately adjacent to the grafts, thin, parallel, rather weakly fluorescent fibers radiated out from the ganglia. When mature trigeminal grafts with attached host iris were regrafted to the anterior eye chamber of adult animals for a few days, in order to remove the intrinsic host iris innervation, such irides showed outgrowing fibers, often organized in small axon bundles, at long distances from the ganglion graft. The present report shows that both mature and immature neurofilament-immunoreactive neurons are capable of innervating the iris. Furthermore, this ingrowth can occur both in the presence and absence of normal intrinsic neurofilament-positive nerve fibers.
An antibody to a 240,000 dalton microtubule-associated protein, microtubule-associated protein 4, was used to illustrate the distribution of this protein in semi-thin sections of the central nervous system. Immunofluorescence microscopy indicated that microtubule-associated protein 4 was restricted to non-neuronal elements of the brain and spinal cord. Astrocytes, oligodendrocytes and &quot;specialized&quot; glia, including tanycytes, Bergmann glia and Muller cells, contained microtubule-associated protein 4. This distribution of microtubule-associated protein 4 in neural tissue in distinct from that described for the other major brain microtubule-associated proteins, microtubule-associated protein 1 and microtubule-associated protein 2. The reactivity of MAP 4 antibody with these glia demonstrates the antigenic relatedness of these cells and further distinguishes glia from other elements of the nervous system.
The present study is an examination, using an indirect immunofluorescence method, of the distribution of visinin, a 24,000 dalton peptide, in the rat forebrain and diencephalon. Immunoreactive structures were localized in the neuronal elements showing an uneven distribution. Immunoreactive neurons were found in the olfactory bulb, anterior olfactory nucleus, cerebral cortex, amygdaloid complex, ventral portion of the nucleus caudatus putamen, septal area, nucleus accumbens, nucleus paratenialis, nucleus rhomboideus, nucleus reuniens, nucleus paraventricularis hypothalami, nucleus supraopticus, nucleus anterior hypothalami, preoptic area, hypothalamic periventricular nucleus, nucleus mammillaris medialis, medial habenular nucleus, zona incerta, nucleus lateralis thalami, nucleus tractus optici and gyrus dentatus. Immunoreactive fibers were observed in the above areas, particularly near the labelled cells, forming fiber plexuses of varying density. In addition, dense plexuses were also seen in the globus pallidus, anteroventral nucleus of the thalamus, substantia nigra and hippocampus. In the former three structures, no labelled cells were present and in the latter, a few scattered neurons were found, indicating that these fibers originate from extrinsic sources.
The fluorescent dye Lucifer Yellow CH was intracellularly injected into neurons in slices of guinea-pig visual neocortex which had been prepared by sectioning either in a plane normal to the pial surface (radial slices) or in a plane parallel to the pial surface (tangential slices). In radial slices 44.3% of the injections resulted in dye-coupling and the number of cells coupled to the impaled neuron per injection followed a Poisson distribution. In contrast dye-coupling was not observed in tangential slices. Incidence of dye-coupling in slices that had been sectioned in both the radial and tangential planes was the same as in intact radial slices, indicating that slicing in the radial plane induced the formation of pathways for dye movement between neurons. The results suggest that formation and/or strengthening of direct intercellular junctions between neocortical neurons may occur as a specific neuronal response to partial dendrotomy.
The distribution of immunoreactive calcitonin gene-related peptide in the rat brain was investigated by means of an indirect immunofluorescence method. In addition to previously reported calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactive structure-containing sites such as the nucleus ambiguus, nucleus originis nervi facialis, nucleus originis nervi hypoglossi, nucleus peripeduncularis and nucleus parabrachialis, the present study demonstrated a far wider distribution of calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactive structure-containing cells in the rat brain, i.e. the nucleus hypothalamicus lateralis, nucleus ventromedialis thalami, colliculus superior, lemniscus lateralis, gyrus dentatus, nucleus olivaris superior, nucleus tractus solitarii, nucleus cuneiformis, nucleus parabigeminalis and a proportion of the Purkinje cells. We have also demonstrated a more extensive network of calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactive fibers distributed in various areas throughout the rat brain than has been reported previously such as the colliculus inferior, nucleus olivaris superior, nucleus vestibularis lateralis and inferioris, and nucleus cochlearis dorsalis and ventralis, etc.
A study was done of the effects of iontophoretic application of adenosine 5'-monophosphate (AMP) and adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) on functionally identified neurones in the spinal dorsal horn of the cat. AMP depressed nearly two-thirds of the 32 neurones tested regardless of functional type; the remainder were unaffected. ATP, on the other hand, had three types of effect: depression, excitation and a biphasic effect which consisted of excitation followed by depression. A significant difference was found when a comparison was made of the frequency of occurrence of each of these three types of effect in the samples of non-nociceptive (n = 18) and of wide dynamic range neurones (n = 42): of non-nociceptive neurones 61% were excited, 11% were depressed, 6% had a biphasic response and 22% were unaffected; of wide dynamic range neurones 45% had a biphasic response, 19% were depressed, 14% were excited and 21% were unaffected (chi 2 = 16.2, P less than 0.005). The depressant effects of both AMP and ATP and the depressant phase of the biphasic effect of ATP seem to be mediated through activation of P1-purinergic receptors because these effects were blocked by theophylline, a P1-purinergic antagonist [Burnstock (1978) In Cell Membrane Receptors for Drugs and Hormones: A Multidisciplinary Approach, pp. 107-118]. Thus the biphasic effect appears to consist of excitatory and depressant responses in the same neurone. The differential effects of ATP on non-nociceptive vs wide dynamic-range neurones are similar to the differential effects on these neurones observed during activation of low-threshold primary afferents. This similarity, together with evidence that ATP can be released from primary afferent neurones [Holton and Holton (1954) J. Physiol., Lond. 126, 124-140; Holton (1959) J. Physiol., Lond. 145, 494-504], prompts us to suggest that ATP may be a chemical mediator of effects of low-threshold primary afferent inputs in the spinal dorsal horn.
Serotonin neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus were identified using an antibody to a serotonin-bovine serum albumin conjugate and the peroxidase anti-peroxidase method. Nerve cell bodies showing serotonin-like immunoreactivity ranged in size from 15 to 22 micron in diameter; their dendrites were also immunoreactive. Immunostaining was present in the cytoplasmic matrix, outer membranes of mitochondria, rough endoplasmic reticulum, multivesicular bodies and dense-cored vesicles. Heavily immunoreactive axonal varicosities contained small round vesicles (18-35 nm) and larger dense-cored vesicles (50-90 nm). Both unmyelinated (0.2-0.5 micron) and myelinated (0.8-1.1 micron) serotonin-like immunoreactive axons were found, often interspersed within bundles of similar caliber unlabeled axons. Serotonin-like immunoreactive somata and dendrites were postsynaptic to numerous unlabeled terminals that contained either (a) clear round vesicles (18-25 nm) with many small dense-cored vesicles (30-50 nm), (b) clear round vesicles (18-25 nm) with large dense-cored vesicles (90-110 nm) or (c) clear round vesicles (18-25 nm) with or without flat vesicles. In addition pairs of unlabeled terminals formed crest synapses onto serotonin-like immunoreactive dendritic spines. This variety of unlabeled terminals making contact with serotonin-like immunoreactive elements suggests that several neuronal systems with possibly different transmitters may regulate serotonin raphe neurons. We occasionally observed serotonin-like immunoreactive dendrites and terminals in apposition to other serotonin-like immunoreactive dendrites with membrane specializations at the site of contact. This might represent a possible site for the self inhibition of serotoninergic neurons reported in physiological studies of the serotonin system in the dorsal raphe nucleus.
Long-term potentiation is a long-lasting enhancement of synaptic efficacy following brief, high-frequency, repetitive stimulation of a monosynaptic input. Intracellular recordings have shown that the inhibitory postsynaptic potential changes in amplitude during long-term potentiation. Yet how this may occur is unclear. To test for a possible alteration in postsynaptic sensitivity to the recurrent inhibitory transmitter gamma-aminobutyrate, we have examined the effect of gamma-aminobutyrate, focally applied to the hippocampal CA1 cell-body layer, on the extracellular recorded action potential (population spike). We found that the degree, duration, dose-dependence and time-course of inhibition produced by gamma-aminobutyrate are unchanged during long-term potentiation. This suggests that a change in sensitivity of CA1 pyramidal cells to the transmitter gamma-aminobutyrate is not the reason for the alteration in the inhibitory postsynaptic potential during long-term potentiation.
Diffusion coefficients of catecholamine neurotransmitters, their metabolites and related species was measured in brain extracellular fluid using in vivo voltammetric techniques. Nanoliter volumes of the species were pressure-ejected into the rat caudate nucleus and their concentration profiles were determined at nearby voltammetric detector electrodes. Thorough testing was carried out to show that the present methodology gave results which agreed with brain diffusion coefficients measured previously by ion-selective microelectrode techniques. All of the species which are anionic at pH 7.4 have brain diffusion coefficients about one-third of their solution counterparts in accord with earlier studies of diffusion in tortuous media. However, the brain diffusion coefficients of all the cation species are about three-times slower than those of the anions. This phenomenon is believed to be caused by ion binding with the polyanionic glycosaminoglycans and related species in brain tissue. In vitro model experiments lend support to this interpretation. This new information on biogenic amines and their metabolites provides meaningful predictions of the spatio-temporal concentration distribution of these species in the extracellular fluid.
The aim of the study was to investigate the influences of dopamine on oligosynaptic corticopallidal neurotransmission. Different cortical areas were electrically stimulated and the responses in the pallidum were recorded by single-cell electrophysiology. Out of 377 pallidal neurons, 192 (51%) responded to stimulation of at least one of the cortical areas investigated. Convergence between frontal cortex and at least one of the other cortical areas was seen in 59 of 110 (54%) pallidal neurons responding to frontal cortex stimulation. Nearly three-quarters (73%) of all responsive pallidal neurons showed a short latency reduction of activity following the stimulus, the rest responded with pure activation or an activation-depression sequence. The dopaminergic influences on this corticopallidal impulse transmission were assessed by the systemic administration of the dopamine receptor-blocking neuroleptics, haloperidol and fluphenazine, as well as by conditioning electrical stimulation of the substantia nigra. Neuroleptic administration augmented the responses to cortical stimulation in 12 of 34 pallidal neurons. Stimulation of the substantia nigra diminished the responses in 24 and augmented them in 6 of 63 of the tested neurons. We propose from the present results, and in agreement with data from conceptually different studies done by others, that dopaminergic influences reduce the flow of information from the cortex to the pallidum. This may constitute a focussing mechanism by which only information form the strongest cortical inputs would pass to the pallidum while less prominent activity would be lost.

The functional significance of the production of ammonia during neuronal activity is not known, although a number of studies are available concerning the mechanism of of ammonia toxicity in brain. Hyperammonemia without behavioural change was induced in experimental rats by i.p. administration of either a single dose of ammonium acetate or 6 doses with an interval of 1 h during the day or one single dose daily for 7 days. No significant change was observed in the content of DNA, RNA and protein in cerebral cortex, cerebellum and brain stem following the administration of a single dose. There was a marked decreased in the content of DNA in all three brain regions after the administration of 6 hourly doses of ammonium acetate. Under these conditions the RNA was found to increase in all three brain regions. A decrease in the content of protein per gram wet weight was observed in cerebral cortex and brain stem while the change in cerebellum was found to be insignificant. However, the content of RNA and protein was found to show a very significant increase when expressed per microgram of DNA for each region under these conditions, indicating an increase in RNA and protein in the cells surviving the toxic damage caused by ammonia. A marked and significant increase in the content of RNA and protein was observed in all three brain regions following the administration of a single dose per day for 7 days. These results are discussed not only with respect to toxic damage to the glial cells by ammonia, but also with respect to the probable effect of ammonia liberated during neuronal activity on inhibition of lysosomal degradation of protein, and on its stimulatory effects of transcriptional and translational activities. The increased RNA and protein under these conditions may be contributing not only in the proliferation of glial cells (Alzheimer Type II cells) but also in the dendritic spinous growth.
Mechanisms regulating peptidergic, noradrenergic and cholinergic development were compared in dissociated cell cultures of neonatal rat sympathetic ganglia. The majority of cultured neurons contained at least two neurotransmitters and many neurons contained three or more. These studies were undertaken to determine whether co-existing transmitters were co-ordinately regulated by the environment. Co-culture of sympathetic neurons with ganglion non-neuronal cells increased substance P and choline acetyltransferase activity but decreased somatostatin and tyrosine hydroxylase activity. Conversely, elimination of non-neuronal cells virtually abolished neuronal expression of substance P and choline acetyltransferase and increased somatostatin and tyrosine hydroxylase. Consequently, under these conditions, somatostatin and tyrosine hydroxylase were similarly regulated, whereas substance P was associated with choline acetyltransferase. By contrast, stimulation of adenylate cyclase or treatment with membrane-permeable adenosine 3',5'-phosphate analogs increased tyrosine hydroxylase and decreased choline acetyltransferase, but had no effect on substance P or somatostatin levels. Moreover, potassium- or veratridine-induced membrane depolarization increased tyrosine hydroxylase but decreased substance P, somatostatin and norepinephrine levels. However, inhibition of neurotransmitter release with magnesium or calcium-free medium prevented the decrease in norepinephrine levels but not the decrease in substance P and somatostatin. Consequently, the effects of membrane depolarization on peptide levels cannot be ascribed to release and subsequent depletion of substance P and somatostatin and must result from decreased net synthesis (synthesis minus catabolism) of the transmitters. Nerve growth-factor treatment also differentially regulated transmitter metabolism; nerve growth factor increased protein-specific activities of tyrosine hydroxylase and choline acetyltransferase but did not increase the protein-specific content of substance P and somatostatin. Quantitative transmitter expression was also influenced by neuron density; increasing density elevated substance P and choline acetyltransferase activity but decreased somatostatin and tyrosine hydroxylase activity per neuron. Finally, culture of sympathetic neurons in a defined (serum-free) medium also altered some but not all traits, decreasing substance P, somatostatin and choline acetyltransferase without any change in tyrosine hydroxylase.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The distribution of adenosine deaminase-containing neurons and fibers in the spinal cord and medulla was examined and the relationship of dorsal root ganglia neurons containing this enzyme to those containing somatostatin, substance P, fluoride-resistant acid phosphatase (FRAP) and 5'-nucleotidase was determined using immunohistochemical and histochemical methods. In the spinal cord adenosine deaminase-immunoreactive fibers and neurons were confined to layer I and IIo. A similar localization of these was observed in the spinal trigeminal nucleus. In adult animals treated neonatally with capsaicin adenosine deaminase-positive fibers were totally depleted in layer IIo but only partially depleted in layer I. Analysis of lumbar sensory ganglia revealed that small type-B neurons immunoreactive for adenosine deaminase were also immunoreactive for somatostatin but not substance P. In addition, adenosine deaminase-positive neurons lacked histochemical reaction-product for FRAP and exhibited the lowest activity of 5'-nucleotidase. Examination of the neuronal populations containing the two phosphatase enzymes showed that a proportion of neurons exhibiting 5'-nucleotidase activity were devoid of FRAP activity. It is concluded that dorsal root ganglia neurons immunoreactive for adenosine deaminase and somatostatin constitute a single subpopulation of type-B ganglion cells separate from those containing substance P or FRAP. It appears that the lack of coexistence of adenosine deaminase with either FRAP or 5'-nucleotidase cannot be attributed simply to a coexistence of the two latter enzymes since some 5'-nucleotidase-positive neurons lacking FRAP were also devoid of adenosine deaminase-immunoreactivity. Insofar as these three enzymes may contribute to the regulation of transmission processes in primary sensory neurons, our results indicate a minimal functional relationship between adenine nucleoside and nucleotide degrading enzymes in these neurons. In addition, FRAP appears to have some functional independence from 5'-nucleotidase.
A calcium-dependent release of 5-hydroxytryptamine from the neural and intermediate lobe of the rat pituitary gland has been demonstrated following electrical stimulation of the pituitary stalk with stimulation parameters thought to evoke propagated action potentials. The 5-hydroxytryptamine release from the intermediate lobe was double that from the neural lobe. The mass of the intermediate lobe of the rat is about 80% of that of the neural lobe [Holzbauer, Rack, Mann, Cooper, Cohen, Krause and Sharman (1984) J. Neural Transm. 59, 91-104]. The relatively high overflow of 5-hydroxytryptamine from the intermediate lobe agrees with immunohistochemical studies in which a larger number of 5-hydroxytryptamine fibres were seen in the intermediate lobe than in the neural lobe. The present results have demonstrated that the rat hypophysis contains neuronal 5-hydroxytryptamine. They also suggest that this amine may act as a neurotransmitter substance in the neural and intermediate lobe.
Dopamine stimulates the phosphorylation of the neuron-specific synaptic vesicle proteins Synapsin I, Protein IIIa and Protein IIIb in the posterior pituitary gland of the rat [Tsou and Greengard (1982) Proc. natn. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 79, 6075-6079]. This effect has been characterized in the present investigation. The stimulatory effect of dopamine was mimicked by the selective D-1 receptor agonist SKF 38393 and was competitively and potently inhibited by the selective D-1 receptor antagonist SKF 83509 as well as by the mixed D-1/D-2 antagonist fluphenazine. Conversely, the effect of dopamine was attenuated by a D-2 receptor agonist (LY 141865) and potentiated by a D-2 receptor antagonist (sulpiride). Norepinephrine also stimulated phosphorylation of the synaptic vesicle proteins, apparently through activation of the D-1 receptor. D-1 and D-2 dopaminergic receptors may play a role in the regulation of hormone secretion from the neurohypophysis. Evidence exists that in the isolated neurophypophysis activation of D-1 receptors facilitates, while activation of D-2 receptors inhibits, release of vasopressin. Further work will be required to determine whether the regulation by D-1 and D-2 receptors of the protein phosphorylation in the neurohypophysial peptidergic terminals is related to the regulation by those receptors of the neurohypophysial hormone secretion.

Short-chain fatty acid injection into animals produces coma, seizures, and hyperventilation. One mechanism of coma production may be through alterations in membrane permeability characteristics. The SPG histofluorescence technique was used to evaluate changes in blood-brain barrier permeability to injected L-dopa in rats after intraperitoneal injections of the short-chain fatty acid, sodium octanoate. Diffusion of intravascular fluorescence was observed around brain capillaries in the octanoate-injected rats suggesting an alteration in capillary permeability to L-dopa. Diffusion of fluorescence around neuronal cell bodies and brain fiber tracts was also seen after treatment with octanoate. These findings suggest that octanoate may also alter neuronal membrane function.
Although Freud's neurological education had a great impact on his thinking, a review of Freud's early writings reveals that: (1) Freud adhered to a mind-body interactionist position that was not in accord with the mechanistic neurology of his medical school education; (2) Freud saw psychical processes as intentional, not completely determined by mechanical brain processes--but interactive with them; (3) Freud made functional and psychological interpretations freely without accepting a need to &quot;neurologize&quot; his psychological insights by providing specific neuroanatomical or neurophysiological correlates for such interpretations; and (4) Freud sought the organic base for his evolving psychology in sexual physiology, not neuroanatomy or neurophysiology.


A Na+-selective microelectrode based on a synthetic neutral carrier (ETH 157) is described. The selectivities in respect to K+, Ca2+ and Mg2+ are adequate for extracellular measurements of Na+ activities. Microelectrodes with tip diameters of about 0.7 micron have an electrical resistance of 3 X 10(10) omega and a 90% response time of less than or equal to 3 s. The drift of the potential difference of the Na+-microelectrode cell assembly in aqueous extracellular electrolyte solutions is less than or equal to 0.2 m V/3 h.
A dual-label radioisotope method to measure regional cerebral blood flow (CBF) with [14C]butanol and the single-transit brain extraction of [3H]water (Ew) was modified to permit concomittant measurement of the exit time through the cerebrovasculature of a bolus (BET) of 51chromium (51Cr)-labeled ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) in rodents. First, [51Cr]EDTA was injected intravenously via the femoral vein and its transit through cerebrovasculature determined by external gamma counting. The BET measurement was then used to determine the optimum time for animal sacrifice for subsequent measurement of CBF and Ew to minimize both intravascular contamination and washout of butanol and water. This procedure resulted in higher CBF at moderate hypercapnia and slightly lower Ew as a function of arterial CO2 content than previously found using a fixed interval for sacrifice.





Sympathetic neurons cultured in defined medium do not develop the ability to produce acetylcholine, as do neurons grown with serum supplementation (lacovitti, L., M. I. Johnson, T. H. Joh, and R. P. Bunge (1982) Neuroscience 7:2225-2239; Wolinsky, E. J., S. C. Landis, and P. H. Patterson (1985) J. Neurosci. 5: 1497-1508). The implication that rat serum contains cholinergic inducing activity is further explored here. Dependence of cholinergic induction on serum concentration is demonstrated, and the activity is shown to reside in a macromolecular fraction. Very little cholinergic inducing activity is present in serum obtained from animals younger than 9 postnatal days. This age dependence correlates with the time of transition from noradrenergic to cholinergic transmitter status by the sympathetic innervation of the rat sweat gland in vivo (Landis, S. C., and D. Keefe (1983) Dev. Biol. 98: 349-372).
The ability to vary systematically the neuronal environment is one advantage afforded by the use of cell culture. Replacement of serum, a variable and undefined medium supplement, with known ingredients allows even greater control of culture conditions. We have studied biochemical and morphological properties related to neurotransmitter metabolism of rat sympathetic neurons cultured in a modified defined medium. Neuronal survival, ultrastructure, and expression of noradrenergic properties appear similar in serum-free and serum-supplemented cultures: small granular vesicles characteristic of norepinephrine storage were observed in both types of culture, and tyrosine hydroxylase activity, conversion of dopamine to norepinephrine, catecholamine production, and storage capacity are equivalent in serum-free and serum-containing cultures. Several of these properties were not exhibited at high levels in previous formulations of this defined medium. Acetylcholine production, however, was about 10-fold lower in serum-free compared to serum-supplemented cultures, consistent with the findings of lacovitti et al. (lacovitti, L., M. I. Johnson, T. H. Joh, and R. P. Bunge (1982) Neuroscience 7:2225-2239). Acetylcholine production can be induced under serum-free conditions by a previously characterized cholinergic inducing factor from heart cell conditioned medium. This responsiveness to serum-free heart cell conditioned medium indicates that serum-free cultures retain plasticity with respect to transmitter status, despite expression of noradrenergic characteristics, unlike cultured neurons of which the noradrenergic transmitter status is maintained by chronic depolarization. Thus, sympathetic neurons survive, express numerous differentiated properties, and display a novel transmitter status under serum-free conditions.
A system for recording evoked potentials, in which a lock-in amplifier replaces the averaging computer, is described. With this system, the set-up is much the same as in the conventional apparatus, with the following exceptions: 1) the amplifier gain is set at only a few thousands; 2) analogue-to-digital conversion and computer averaging is replaced by a lock-in amplifier; and 3) the output of the system is an analogue signal representing the amplitude of the recorded steady-state evoked potentials and the phase of baseline crossings. This set-up is much less costly than the conventional apparatus, much easier to operate, and, with its real-time output, may provide an ideal technique for screening and monitoring purposes.
The purpose of this study is to investigate the relationship between changes in cortical Po2 (bPo2) and cortical blood flow when inhalating different oxygen mixtures. Experiments were performed on 31 cats anaesthetized with N2O/O2 plus supplemental drugs for immobilization and analgesia. Cortical Po2 was measured by the polarographic method using 25 microns Pt electrode (coated) and a 250 micron Ag-AgCl2 indifferent electrode, especially designed to rest lightly on the cortex by means of coiled spring support. Using the same electrode but with opposite tip polarization; local cortical blood flow (lCoBF) was measured at the same site by the H2-clearance method. The change of bPo2 in going from FiO2 25% to FiO2 75% was measured at 58 different sites. (Table 2). At 25% FiO2 the mean bPo2 was 24 +/- 16 mm Hg, with a range from 4 to 92 mm Hg. With increased FiO2 to 75% local bPo2 responded quite differently at adjacent sites. At 75% FiO2 the mean bPo2 was 42.7 +/- 32 mm Hg with a range from 10 mm Hg to 198 mm Hg. The bPo2 and lCoBF were both measured at 44 of the 58 different sites. Cortical sites with a resting bPo2 greater than 30 mm Hg at 25% FiO2 had a lCBF = 57 +/- 12 ml/100g m; whereas sites with resting normoxic bPO2 less than 20 mm Hg had a mean ICoBF = 56 +/- 14 ml/100g min.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The enzyme choline-O-acetyltransferase catalyses the biosynthesis of acetylcholine from acetyl coenzyme A and choline and is considered as one of the best markers for cholinergic nerve endings. The distribution of this enzymatic activity was analysed during the purification of plasma membranes of purely cholinergic nerve endings isolated from the electric organ of the fish Torpedo marmorata. This tissue, which receives a profuse and purely cholinergic innervation, can be considered as being a &quot;giant&quot; neuromuscular synapse. The isolated nerve endings (synaptosomes) were first osmotically disrupted and their plasma membranes isolated by equilibrium density centrifugation (discontinuous followed by continuous sucrose gradients). Choline acetyltransferase activity was found to exist in three forms: (1) a soluble form (the major one) present in the cytoplasm of the nerve endings, (2) a form which is ionically associated with membranes and which can be solubilized by washing exhaustively the membrane fraction with solutions of high ionic strength (0.5 M NaCl) and (iii) a form which is non-ionically bound to membranes and cannot be solubilized with high salt solution. The soluble and the non-ionically bound activities exhibited very similar affinities for choline (1.34 and 1.64 mM, respectively). The non-ionically membrane-associated form of choline acetyltransferase was found to &quot;copurify&quot; with the cholinergic synaptosomal plasma membranes of Torpedo, its specific activity being increased from 122 (crude fraction) to 475 (purified membrane fraction) nmol/h/mg protein. An enrichment was also observed for another cholinergic marker, the enzyme acetylcholinesterase, but not for the nicotinic receptor to acetylcholine, a marker for postsynaptic membranes. No choline acetyltransferase activity could be detected in preparations of synaptic vesicles that were highly purified from the electric organ. Also, the non-ionically associated form of choline acetyltransferase activity was hardly detectable (2.4 nmol/h/mg protein) in fractions enriched in axonal membranes prepared from the cholinergic electric nerves innervating the electric organ. The partition into soluble and membrane-bound activity was also analysed for choline acetyltransferase present in human placenta, a rich source for the enzyme but a non-innervated tissue. In this case the great majority of the enzyme appeared as soluble activity. Very low levels of non-ionically membrane-bound activity were found to be present in a crude membrane fraction from human placenta (2.8 nmol/h/mg protein).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Regulation of histamine release was studied mainly on brain slices prelabeled with L-[3H]-histidine and depolarized by increased extracellular K+ concentration or veratridine in a non-superfused system. The released 3H-labeled amines, isolated by ion-exchange chromatography from a large excess of 3H-labeled precursor consisted by more than 95% of unchanged [3H]histamine. Exogenous histamine reduced the release of neosynthesized [3H]histamine via stimulation of previously characterized H3-receptors whereas it did not modify the 3H-labeled amine release from slices prelabeled with preformed [3H]histamine. The maximal inhibitory effect of exogenous histamine progressively diminished as the strength of the depolarizing stimulus or the external Ca2+ concentration were elevated. On the contrary H3-receptor antagonists like impromidine or burimamide enhanced the depolarization-induced release of [3H]histamine, an effect which was particularly marked when slices were loaded with histamine by preincubation with [3H]histidine in high concentration. These results suggest that the inhibition of [3H]histamine release by exogenous histamine acting via H3-receptor stimulation is mediated by a restricted access of Ca2+ and that its extent is influenced by the degree of autostimulation by endogenous histamine as well as, possibly, by actual internal Ca2+ concentration. In addition the decrease in external Ca2+ concentration shifted rightwards the concentration-response curve to histamine. The autoinhibitory effect of exogenous histamine was found on slices from various regions, known from lesion studies to contain terminals of extrinsic histaminergic neurons. It did not apparently involve interneurones, not being prevented in slices in which the traffic of action potentials was blocked by tetrodotoxin. It also remained unaffected in striatal slices in which the neuronal cell-bodies were selectively destroyed by prior local infusion of kainic acid. Finally exogenous histamine inhibited [3H]histamine release from depolarized synaptosomes of rat cerebral cortex, with an EC50 value similar to that found with slices and was antagonised by impromidine with an apparent Ki value similar to that displayed at H3-receptors. It is concluded that histamine modulates its own release from cerebral neurones by interacting with H3-presynaptic autoreceptors and via mechanisms similar to those previously evidenced on other aminergic systems.
The transitional region between the peripheral and central nervous system in lumbosacral dorsal roots of rats were used in order to test the regeneration capacity of neurons with different metabolic characteristics. Ventral root fibres (cholinergic) and hypogastric nerve fibres (catecholaminergic) were coapted to the central stump of cut lumbosacral dorsal roots and permitted to regrow along the peripheral nervous and central nervous parts of the dorsal root. After a postoperative period of 1.5-9 months the animals were sacrificed and the coapted nerves and roots were investigated by histochemistry, light and electron microscopy. Regrowth of both cholinergic and catecholaminergic neurons had occurred into the peripheral nervous part of the root. In the central nervous part of the root, regeneration was abortive for both types of neurons. The astrocytes of the central nervous part of the root showed different morphological features according to the type of neuron that had been coapted to the dorsal root. The results are discussed in terms of neurotropism, neuron target dependence, microenvironment and type of regenerating neuron.
During the first 7 days after denervation or tenotomy of skeletal muscle there is increased cell proliferation, as measured autoradiographically by [3H]thymidine incorporation. By 21 days most of the labelled cells have disappeared. The present experiment was designed to measure residual levels of labelling in skeletal muscles at 21 days after denervation or tenotomy, when [3H]thymidine had been available for the first 7 days. This was to determine the fate of cells labelled at 7 days and to detect whether continued cell proliferation had occurred during the intervening period, as evidenced by the dilution of nuclear label. Tibialis anterior muscles of 16 mice were denervated, tenotomized or sham-operated, and the animals injected with a single daily pulse of [3H]thymidine for the first 7 days only. In denervated muscle the 11% of muscle nuclei and 41% of connective tissue nuclei labelled at 7 days had decreased to 2 and 13%, respectively, by 21 days. These values were still significantly higher than in 21 day controls (0.2 and 1.9%, respectively). In muscle nuclei (myonuclei and satellite cell nuclei) there was a significant decrease in the amount of label per nucleus. This was interpreted as evidence of continued cell proliferation. However, this did not produce an increase in numbers of muscle nuclei. It was concluded that: there was turnover of satellite cells and possibly myonuclei, the latter probably through continued division and incorporation of satellite cells; and the extra satellite cells and myonuclei produced were probably extruded from the fibre to the extracellular space.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The regeneration of fast and slow muscles was compared following &quot;mincing&quot; and replacement into their own or alien muscle bed. At intervals varying from 2 to 9 weeks the tension developed by the regenerated muscles was assessed and compared to that developed by the muscles from the contralateral unoperated side. This parameter was then taken as an indication of recovery. The regenerated muscles never developed more than half of the tension of the control muscles. Muscles regenerated in the bed of extensor digitorum longus became fast-twitch muscles and muscles regenerated in the bed of soleus became slow-twitch muscles, no matter whether they originated from an extensor digitorum longus or soleus &quot;mince&quot;. The regeneration of the muscle tissue in the place of extensor digitorum longus developed better than in the place of soleus. The pattern of innervation of the regenerated muscles was analysed using a combined cholinesterase silver stain. Many of the regenerated fibres had more than one end plate and some end plates more than one axon terminal. These results show that in adult animals muscle redevelopment can occur, but only to a limited extent. Moreover, on reinnervation of regenerated muscle fibres the axons do not assume their original pattern of innervation.
Choline acetyltransferase activity and localization of acetylcholinesterase and [3H]quinuclidinyl benzilate binding sites (muscarinic receptors) in rat facial nuclei were examined 2 weeks after right facial nerve transection or sham control surgery. Choline acetyltransferase activity in the right facial nucleus of nerve-transected rats was only one-third of that in the left nucleus. Histochemical observations revealed loss of acetylcholinesterase from most motoneurons and neuropil of the right facial nucleus after axotomy. Autoradiographic grains, marking muscarinic receptors, were likewise depleted substantially from this region. Facial nuclei of control animals were identical with respect to all of these neurochemical measures and undistinguishable from the left facial nucleus of nerve-transected rats. Cholinergic enzymes are known to be synthesized by motoneurons, but the source of muscarinic receptors in the facial nucleus is not known. Since all three proteins are depleted from the facial nucleus after axotomy of motoneurons, it is concluded that these cells produce cholinergic enzymes and muscarinic receptors. Synthesis of muscarinic receptors by facial motoneurons could indicate these neurons are cholinoceptive. Axotomy should be a useful tool for determining which other neurotransmitter receptors are produced by facial motoneurons and efferent neurons in other cranial nerve nuclei.
The spinal projections from the raphe-associated brainstem areas containing serotonergic neurons were studied with aldehyde-induced fluorescence in combination with the retrograde fluorescent tracer True Blue in the rat. This technique makes it possible to determine simultaneously the projections of individual neurons and to detect whether serotonin is present in the same neurons. After tracer injections into the spinal cord retrogradely labeled serotonergic and non-serotonergic neurons were found in the medullary raphe nuclei and adjacent regions and to a lesser extent in association with the dorsal and median raphe nuclei in the mesencephalon. Large True Blue injections that covered one side of the spinal cord at mid-cervical level labeled about 60% of the ipsilaterally situated serotonergic neurons in the medullary raphe regions while the corresponding figure contralaterally was about 25%. On both sides a larger number of labeled non-serotonergic neurons were found; these were sometimes located dorsal to, but often intermingled with, the serotonergic cells. While the serotonergic projection from the mesencephalon could not be labeled from injections below cervical levels, the labeling in more caudal brainstem regions exhibited only minor variations depending on the rostrocaudal level of the spinal segment injected. Furthermore, quantitative data from injections at different levels indicate that the majority of the spinal-projecting neurons traverse most of the length of the cord. Summarizing the results obtained from small injections restricted to subregions of the cord we feel that it is possible to distinguish three fairly distinct pathways for spinal projections from the medullary raphe and adjacent regions: The dorsal pathway originates mainly from cells in the caudal pons and rostral medulla oblongata (rostral part of nucleus raphe magnus, nucleus raphe magnus proper, nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis pars alpha and nucleus paragigantocellularis). This pathway, which contains a large non-serotonergic component, descends through the dorsal part of the lateral funiculus and terminates mainly in the dorsal horn at all spinal cord levels. The intermediate pathway is largely serotonergic with its cell bodies located within the arcuate cell group (situated just ventral and lateral to the pyramids very close to the ventral surface of the brainstem) and in the nucleus raphe obscurus and pallidus and terminates in the intermediate grey at thoracolumbar and upper sacral levels.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The ultrastructure and synaptic organization of the presumed medullary pacemaker nucleus, nucleus c of the weakly electric mormyrid fish, Gnathonemus petersii has been investigated. Nucleus c consists of about 12-15 small (20-25 micron) neurones (P-cells), which form a group situated ventrally to the medullary relay nucleus and embedded in a neuropil of myelinated fibres and dendritic processes. The P-cells often exhibit an enhanced electron density of their cytoplasm and dendroplasm. They possess several dendrites of different diameter, a short, thin axon initial segment and a thickly myelinated axon running in dorsal direction. The pacemaker neurons are interconnected by complex electronic coupling, established by somatosomatic, dendrosomatic and dendrodendritic gap junctions. Perikarya and dendrites are frequently interconnected serially by gap junctions; dendrites showed sometimes triadic gap-junction arrangement. It is suggested that this high degree of electrotonic coupling amongst the pacemaker cells represents the first level of the highly ordered synchronization processes which characterize the electric discharge command system of Gnathonemus. Pacemaker cells receive synaptic input from club endings with mixed synapses and from bouton-like terminals with chemical synapses, both of them originating from medium-sized myelinated fibres and contacting mainly neuronal perikarya and dendritic processes. The axon initial segment receives only few synaptic inputs. Bouton-like terminals were found to be of two types according to their vesicle content, namely, boutons with ovoid, clear synaptic vesicles forming Gray type-1 synapses and boutons with pleomorphic clear synaptic vesicles forming Gray type-2 synapses. Different functional roles for the two types of boutons in modulating pacemaker cell activity are suggested.
The medullary relay nucleus of the mormyrid weakly electric fish Gnathonemus petersii is a stage in the command pathway for the electric organ discharge. It receives input from the presumed command or pacemaker nucleus and projects to the electromotoneurons in the spinal cord. Its fine structure and synaptology were investigated by electron microscopy. The origin of the terminals contacting the cell membrane of the neurons of this nucleus was determined by horseradish peroxidase (HRP) injections into different brain structures, namely into the bulbar command- and mesencephalic command-associated nuclei. Twenty-five to thirty large cells of about 45 micron in diameter constitute the medullary electromotor relay. Each cell has a kidney-shaped, lobulated nucleus, a large myelinated axon with a short initial segment and several long, richly arborizing primary dendrites. Many, if not all, cells are interconnected with large somatosomatic or dendrosomatic, dendrodendritic and dendroaxonic gap junctions. These junctions often occur in serial or triadic arrangements. The relay cells receive large club endings as well as small boutons. The club endings are found mainly on the soma and primary dendrites and are morphologically mixed synapses. The boutons are characterized by synapses which are only chemical and are distributed all over the cell membrane, but with a definitely higher frequency on secondary dendrites and more distal parts of dendritic processes. Horseradish peroxidase injections into the mesencephalic command-associated nucleus reveal a large number of labelled boutons on the secondary dendrites of the relay cells. Injections into the bulbar command-associated nucleus label the same type of boutons as mesencephalic injections, but also label club endings on relay cell soma and primary dendrites. The results support the conclusion made on the basis of previous light microscopical observations that boutons originate from the bulbar command-associated nucleus, whereas the club endings issue from the presumed pacemaker nucleus (nucleus c). The club endings of the bifurcating axons of this nucleus are labelled by retro- and anterograde transport of horseradish peroxidase; the bifurcating axons project simultaneously to the bulbar command-associated nucleus and the medullary relay nucleus.
The inferior olivary projection to anterior and posterior regions of the cerebellar vermis was studied in the rat using the retrograde fluorescent double-labelling technique in combination with a computerized data collection system. A technique for quantifying and statistically analysing the point-to-point (or nucleotopic) organization of the projection is presented. It was found that one group of neurones in the medial accessory olivary nucleus projected to cerebellar lobules 6 or 7, and second group projected to lobules 4 or 5, while a third sent collaterals to both areas. In the rostral part of the nucleus these three groups were spatially separated (P less than 0.05), whereas caudally they were intermingled. It is concluded that a double-labelling method has distinct advantages over a single-tracer technique (such as horseradish peroxidase) in the investigation of the topographic organization of neuronal projections. Quantitative analysis is used here to overcome the problems presented by collateralization, inter-animal variation and the accurate representation of results from a series of animals.
The topographical organization of the subnuclear projections towards the thalamus was studied with autographic methods in adult Wistar rats. The four cerebellar deep nuclei give rise to projections to the ventral region of the rostral thalamus. Most of the fibers end contralaterally, according to a topographical pattern; however, some fibers from each of the cerebellar nuclei recross the midline at the thalamic level and terminate ipsilaterally, within regions symmetric to those receiving the densest contralateral projection. These ipsilateral cerebellothalamic components arise in decreasing order from the caudal nucleus lateralis, the ventrocaudal nucleus medialis and the nucleus interpositus, respectively. The projections of the nucleus lateralis directed to the contralateral thalamus are topographically organized. (1) Within the nucleus ventralis lateralis, the rostral and caudal parts of the cerebellar nucleus lateralis project respectively to rostral and caudal regions; lateral and medial zones of the nucleus lateralis project, respectively, to medial and central aspects of the nucleus ventralis lateralis. (2) The nucleus ventralis medialis and particularly its caudal portion appears to receive the bulk of its afferents from the ventromedial portion of the nucleus lateralis including the &quot;subnucleus lateralis parvocellularis&quot;. (3) The nucleus centralis lateralis receives fibers from most parts of the nucleus lateralis including the &quot;dorsolateral hump&quot;. (4) The nucleus interpositus anterior projects to the dorsomedial aspect of the rostral nucleus ventralis lateralis. In the latter nucleus, the ventrolateral aspect of the central region receives projections in cases in which the nucleus interpositus posterior is largely involved. A particular emphasis is put on the different projections from the various subnuclear regions of the lateral nucleus. A comparison is attempted with the situation in the primates, particularly with regard to the question of the parvocellular subdivision of the lateral nucleus.
2-Deoxy-D-[3H]glucose autoradiography was employed to investigate the effects of acute cholinergic manipulations on hippocampal glucose metabolism. In general, manipulations designed to reduce cholinergic activity (medial septal ablation, atropine treatment) reduced hippocampal glucose metabolism. Maximal decrements were found in the terminal fields of the septohippocampal projection after medial septal lesions, while maximal deficits after atropine treatment correlated with muscarinic receptor binding. Electrical stimulation of the medial septum resulted in increased glucose utilization in some terminal fields of the septohippocampal projection and decreased utilization in the terminal fields of the perforant pathway. Our data clearly indicate that acute alterations in cholinergic activity can affect hippocampal glucose metabolism but the distribution, direction and degree of these changes is dependent on the specific treatment.
The distribution and morphology of neurons containing vasopressin, oxytocin and their associated neurophysins were examined immunohistochemically in rats given intracerebroventricular injections of colchicine. Under these conditions, numerous neurons containing vasopressin and neurophysin were found in several brain areas in addition to those previously described in the hypothalamus. Individual parvocellular vasopressin neurons were scattered in the medial and lateral septum and vertical limb of the nucleus of the diagonal band, while a large number of such neurons were found throughout both the bed nucleus of the stria terminals and the dorsal portion of the medial amygdala. In addition a small cluster of parvocellular vasopressin neurons was present adjacent to the top of the third ventricle in the posterior dorsal hypothalamic area and a number of such neurons were found in the ventral locus coeruleus and sub coeruleus. The mean diameters of these parvocellular vasopressin neurons ranged from 16.6 to 19.8 micron in the different regions, in contrast to the 25.4 micron mean diameter of hypothalamic magnocellular vasopressin neurons, or the 13.7 micron mean diameter of parvocellular vasopressin neurons in the suprachiasmatic nucleus. No vasopressin neurons were found in other brain and spinal cord regions under the conditions used in this study, although all regions were examined. No oxytocin neurons other than those previously described in the hypothalamus and immediately contiguous regions were found. Measurement of the mean diameter of oxytocin neurons showed that neurons in the caudal paraventricular nucleus were clearly smaller (18.9 micron) than magnocellular oxytocin neurons (24.8 micron) in other parts of the hypothalamus. These parvocellular oxytocin neurons with experimentally documented central connections were similar in both size and appearance to the parvocellular vasopressin neurons seen after colchicine treatment, which are potential sources of certain central vasopressin pathways. These findings indicate that there are at least two types of oxytocin neurons in the hypothalamus and several types of vasopressin neurons in a variety of different areas in the brain, many of which are outside of the hypothalamus.
Evidence has recently been presented which demonstrates that the amygdaloid central nucleus projects directly upon cardiovascular/autonomic regulatory nuclei of the dorsal medulla and that in the rabbit this nucleus may influence cardiovascular activity during emotional states. The present study is one of a series of investigations designed to provide information on the innervation of the central nucleus in the rabbit and describes the topography and origin of frontal cortex projections to the nucleus based upon retrograde and anterograde axonal transport techniques. Injections of horseradish peroxidase or the fluorescent dyes, Bisbenzimide or Nuclear Yellow, into the central nucleus resulted in abundant numbers of retrogradely labeled neurons in three regions of the frontal cortex: the insular cortex on the lateral surface and areas 25 and 32 on the medial surface of the hemisphere. The majority of labeled neurons in the insular cortex were located in layer V of the dorsal and posterior agranular insular regions, although labeled neurons were observed in layer V of the granular insular cortex as well as in layers II and III of the posterior agranular insular cortex. Labeled neurons in areas 25 and 32 were located throughout all layers and the total number of these neurons was substantially less than that observed in the insular cortex. Autoradiographic experiments in which amino acids were injected into the insular cortex resulted in a dense pattern of transported label within the central nucleus that extended rostrally into the sublenticular substantia innominata and lateral component of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. Label was also observed in the cortical, lateral, basolateral and basomedial amygdaloid nuclei. In contrast to the projections from the insular cortex, amino acid injections into areas 25 and 32 resulted in only relatively light labeling within the most rostral region of the central nucleus; otherwise the nucleus was partially encapsulated and virtually devoid of label. These results suggest that the insular cortex possesses the potential to directly influence the central nucleus projection to cardiovascular/autonomic regulatory nuclei of the dorsal medulla and thus, together with the amygdaloid central nucleus, appears to be an important component of a forebrain system involved in cardiovascular/autonomic regulation.
Macrophages and microglia in the developing and adult mouse brain have been identified by immunohistochemical localization of the macrophage-specific antigen F4/80 and monoclonal antibodies to the FcIgG1/2b (2.4G2) and type-three complement (Mac-1) receptors. In the adult mouse there are two classes of F4/80-positive cells; those associated with the choroid plexus, ventricles and leptomeninges and the microglia. The cells bearing Fc and complement receptors are indistinguishable, by their morphology and distribution, from those revealed by F4/80. During development macrophages invade the brain and can be followed through a series of transitional forms as they differentiate to become microglia. Macrophage invasion occurs when naturally dying cells are observed in large numbers and this is consistent with the idea that dying neurons and axons provide a stimulus for macrophage infiltration. Our results provide strong support for the hypothesis that the microglia are derived from monocytes and show that microglia possess receptors which would allow them to play a part in the immune defence of the nervous system.
The aim of the present study was to analyse the involvement of the intrinsic neurons located in the middle lateral hypothalamus in electrical self-stimulation measured with electrodes in the anterior and posterior parts of the medial forebrain bundle. In rats without hypothalamic lesions, self-stimulation rates from both anterior and posterior electrodes were similar on either side of the brain. For all rats with ibotenic acid-induced lesions in the lateral hypothalamus, self-stimulation rates were lower with electrodes in the area of the lesion, while self-stimulation on the contralateral side was normal. In rats with electrodes in the anterior hypothalamus, the lesion produced a large deficit when stimulation was applied to the anterior electrode ipsilateral to the lesion. Only three rats showed a decrease in self-stimulation with stimulation of the posterior hypothalamic electrode ipsilateral to the lesion; self-stimulation of the other three rats was normal. These results suggest that self-stimulation in the anterior part of the medial forebrain bundle is supported by long fibers originating in the middle part of the lateral hypothalamus, while self-stimulation in the posterior part of the lateral hypothalamus can be influenced by another system not involved in reward processes observed in the rostral part of the medial forebrain bundle.
The distribution of adrenoceptors and opiate receptors in the nucleus of the tractus solitarius and the intermediolateral cell column of the thoracic spinal cord of the cat have been investigated using an in vitro autoradiographic technique. Specific binding of [3H]yohimbine and [3H]rauwolscine (alpha 2-adrenoceptor ligands) was seen within the intermediolateral cell column but no obvious binding of [3H]prazosin, an alpha 1-ligand, was observed. No evidence of a significant population of opiate receptors was obtained in the intermediolateral cell column. Within the nucleus of the tractus solitarius a marked binding of [3H]yohimbine and [3H]rauwolscine was accompanied, however, by a more restricted binding of [3H]naloxone and [3H]dihydromorphine indicating the presence of both alpha 2-adrenoceptors and opiate receptors. As with the intermediolateral cell column no evidence of [3H]prazosin binding was seen. These observations may have particular relevance for the physiology and pharmacology of cardiovascular control. In the case of the intermediolateral cell column it is consistent with evidence of a catecholamine innervation originating from the brainstem. With regard to the nucleus of the tractus solitarius the location of the receptor groups is discussed in the light of the anatomy and physiology of its afferent innervation.
The effects of extracellular applications of benzodiazepine agonists and the benzodiazepine antagonist, Ro15-1788, were investigated on pyramidal neurons in the CA1 region of rat hippocampal slices. The benzodiazepine agonists, chlordiazepoxide and diazepam, enhanced gamma-aminobutyrate synaptic inhibition, as tested by extracellular recordings during a paired-pulse inhibition paradigm. In contrast, Ro15-1788 (0.1-1 microM) depressed paired-pulse inhibition in a dose-dependent manner that suggested agonist activity at higher (10-100 microM) concentrations. Intracellular recordings from CA1 neurons showed that Ro15-1788 reduced both orthodromically and antidromically evoked inhibitory postsynaptic potentials. The reduction of the inhibitory postsynaptic potential probably resulted from a postsynaptic effect on the conductance mechanism of the inhibitory postsynaptic potential, since there were no changes in resting input resistance, the inhibitory postsynaptic reversal potential or the frequency of spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic potentials. These data suggest that in the hippocampal slice preparation either (1) an endogenous benzodiazepine agonist exists that can be displaced by Ro15-1788 or (2) Ro15-1788 has inverse agonist activity.
A 15,000 dalton polypeptide purified from Bungarus multicinctus venom (which normally copurifies with alpha-bungarotoxin) was characterized biochemically and its biological effects were studied. This polypeptide, P15, had an aminoacid composition and molecular weight different from those of both alpha- and beta-bungarotoxin. It inhibited the ganglionic transmission in the guinea-pig hypogastric nerve-vas deferens preparation and did not block, even at very high concentrations, the neuromuscular transmission in the rat phrenic nerve-diaphragm preparation. In the same preparations alpha-bungarotoxin was unable to block the response at the ganglionic synapse while it was fully active in blocking the neuromuscular transmission. However, a pretreatment of the vas deferens preparation with alpha-bungarotoxin prevented the inhibitory effect of P15. 125I-Labeled P15 showed a specific and saturable binding to rat superior cervical ganglia homogenate and to a Torpedo postsynaptic membrane fraction. The binding of P15 to ganglia was inhibited by curare. The binding was Ca2+ dependent. The density of binding sites was of 300 fmol/mg of protein in the ganglion and 500 fmol/mg of protein in Torpedo membranes. The amount of P15-binding sites in ganglia was not modified by denervation, indicating that P15 binds to postsynaptic receptors. The binding of 125I-labeled P15, both in ganglia and Torpedo membranes, was inhibited by alpha-bungarotoxin. P15 had a Ca2+-dependent phospholipase A2 activity. Lowering Ca2+ concentration in incubation media affected the phospholipase A2 activity more than binding properties and inhibition of phospholipase activity with p-bromophenacyl bromide did not affect the activity of P15 on vas deferens preparation, suggesting that the phospholipase activity is not necessary for the activity of P15 on nicotinic receptors. Our results suggest that P15 toxin may be a specific and valuable probe for studying the ganglionic nicotinic receptor.
Administration of 10 micrograms of substance P intrathecally to the spinal T9 level of the adult rat, anaesthetized with urethane, provoked an increase in free catecholamines in plasma taken from the inferior vena cava. Adrenaline levels at 1 min after administration were 154.8 +/- 10.8% (mean +/- SE; n = 11) of preadministration levels and noradrenaline levels were 153.5 +/- 11.8% of preadministration levels. Differences between the values of free catecholamines in animals given substance P vs those given vehicle only were statistically significant at 1 and 10 min postinjection, but not at 30 min. Administration of a substance P analogue with central antagonistic properties 15 min before substance P was given prevented expression of the effects of substance P. These results suggest that substance P may be an excitatory chemical mediator of synaptic transmission in spinal pathways controlling adrenal medullary output. Thus dysfunction of substance P mechanisms may underlie some animal models of hypertension and may be involved in some cases of essential hypertension in man as well as in autonomic dysfunction associated with some neurological entities.
Trigeminal, substance P-containing nerves have been studied in the stretch-prepared rat iris with immunohistochemical techniques. The normal iris exhibited a slightly irregular plexus of individual fibres in the dilator, intermingled with thin, meandering axon bundles. The sphincter contained more circumferentially oriented fibres. Occasional free nerve endings were present in all parts of the iris; no obvious association with blood vessels was detected. All substance P-positive nerves in the iris disappeared after lesioning the trigeminal nerve. Irides of neonates showed scattered, smooth fibres in a sparse plexus, without visible axon bundles. Over the first two postnatal weeks, the density of innervation developed rapidly, reaching a transiently supranormal level and fluorescence intensity, compared to adulthood. From 3 weeks on, the pattern and density of substance P-containing fibres approached the normal adult appearance. In irides grafted to the anterior eye chamber, the intrinsic substance P nerves degenerated, disappearing completely after 5 days. Reinnervation from the host irides transpired over the next few weeks, approximating normal density after 3 weeks, and organotypic density and distribution from 4 weeks on. No obvious hyperinnervation was encountered after longer postoperative times (3 months). In the host iris, many substance P fibres disappear or exhibit low fluorescence intensity during the first postoperative week, recovering fully during the next 2 weeks. Over longer postoperative periods irregular, moderate hyperinnervation developed with increased numbers of axons in bundles. In conclusion, we show normal distribution and plasticity during ontogeny and maturity of substance P-containing iris nerves in the rat, with a sensitive immunohistochemical technique in iris whole mounts.
A portable constant current electrical stimulator with bipolar felt disk electrodes was developed for quantitative assessment of cutaneous sensibility. The new method was used in the measurement of thresholds for perception and pain in healthy volunteers. The mean values of the threshold for perception in different areas of the body varied between 1.0 and 2.0 mA (S.D. +/- 0.2-0.6 mA) and those of the threshold for pain between 2.5 and 4.3 mA (S.D. +/- 0.5-1.7 mA). There was no difference between the left and the right side. The interindividual range of the perception threshold varied from 0.4 to 3.0 mA and that of the pain threshold from 1.2 to 6.0 mA. Within a limited area of the body the reproducibility of the measurements was high both for the thresholds for perception and for pain. Anterolateral cordotomy caused a marked rise in the threshold for pain in the analgesic area of the body, whereas the threshold for perception did not change. It is hypothesized that the threshold for perception reflects an activation of A beta fibers and the threshold for pain an activation of A delta fibers. The new method is considered to be valuable in clinical neurology and neurosurgery.
The ultrastructure of transganglionic transport of horseradish peroxidase (HRP) from the inferior alveolar (IA) nerve to the brainstem is being studied in the cat. The IA nerve was soaked in an HRP solution and following a two-day survival the animal was perfused transcardially with a paraformaldehyde-glutaraldehyde solution. The tissue was immediately dissected and postfixed for 1-3 h in perfusate. Sections of 75 micron thickness were cut with a Vibratome and reacted utilizing tetramethyl benzidine (TMB) as the chromagen. Optimum results for electron microscopy were obtained by osmication in a pH 6.0, 1% osmium tetroxide solution for 45 min at 45 degrees C, followed by rapid dehydration and embedment in Epon. The resulting HRP-TMB reaction product was characterized and identified ultrastructurally in ganglion cells, peripheral and central axons and in brainstem terminals. The HRP-TMB reaction product varied in density but had consistent crystalline-like laminations of a repeating unit and characterized by a membrane 4-5 nm in diameter. Some of the HRP-TMB reaction product found in terminals and axons was below the limit of resolution of the light microscope.
Positron emission tomography (PET) is an analytical imaging technique that provides a way of making in vivo measurements of the anatomical distribution and rates of specific biochemical reactions. This ability of PET to measure and image dynamic biochemistry builds a bridge between the basic and clinical neurosciences founded on the commonality of the types of measurements made. Clinical findings with PET in humans are suggesting hypotheses that can be tested rigorously in the basic science laboratory.
A new double-lumen micro-catheter has been adapted for use in an integrated push-pull cannula system for perfusion of brain tissue of the unrestrained animal. The catheter consists of a single strand of polyethylene tubing available in sizes with an external diameter ranging from 280-480 microns. A microcapillary pipette is drawn and inserted into each lumen of the two channels. The pipettes are then connected by polyethylene tubing to calibrated gas-tight syringes mounted on the reciprocating decks of an infusion-withdrawal pump. Since the diameter of the orifice of each lumen is equal, the simultaneous delivery and withdrawal of an osmotically balanced artificial CSF at a perfusion site is assured. In prototype experiments, the tissue exchange of 3H-norepinephrine and 14C-dopamine incorporated into the CSF perfusate was examined simultaneously at hypothalamic sites in the rat. At perfusion rates of 12.5 and 25.0 microliter/min, the mean recovery of the catecholamine neurotransmitters in terms of the radio-label residual in the perfusate ranged between 85-88 percent. The principal advantages of the new system are its flexibility, ease of sterilization and its diminutive size which enables perfusion, for the first time, of individual nuclei or fiber tracts in the brain of a laboratory animal such as the rat. Thus, a more precise delivery of a drug or other chemical agent to the site of perfusion as well as the collection of a released transmitter substance from the same anatomical locus can now be accomplished.



A novel application of voltage-sensitive dyes is described. Hippocampal slices in vitro accumulated voltage-sensitive cyanine dyes under conditions presumed to cause depolarization and hyperpolarization. Increasing extracellular potassium caused a depression of dye uptake that correlated linearly with the membrane potential calculated from the Goldman equation. Veratrine depressed dye uptake, and this effect was blocked by addition of tetrodotoxin or removal of extracellular sodium. Ouabain also depressed dye uptake. Conversely, hyperpolarizing conditions using reduced extracellular sodium caused increased dye uptake. These results support a voltage-dependent mechanism for the uptake of cyanine dyes in hippocampal slices. Application of this phenomenon as an alternative to 2-deoxyglucose autoradiography for mapping neuronal activity will be presented.
Horizontal optokinetic nystagmus was elicited in rats by rotation of a pattern of bright dots projected onto a cylinder surrounding the animal. Eye position was measured with the electromagnetic search coil technique. Optokinetic stimuli consisted either of velocity steps of pattern rotation or sinusoidal oscillations. Closed-loop gain (slow phase eye velocity/pattern velocity) of steady-stage step responses in binocular vision ranged between 0.8 and 1.0 for pattern velocities up to 20-40 degrees/s and decreased thereafter. Open-loop gain (steady-state slow phase velocity/retinal slip velocity) was dependent on retinal slip velocity and decreased linearly in double logarithmic plot from about 30 (at 0.5 degree/s) to about 9 (at 5 degrees/s). For retinal slip velocities larger than 5 degrees/s open-loop gain decayed faster and reached about 1 at 30 degrees/s. Step response profiles showed a gradual increase in slow phase eye velocity reaching steady-state after a time period roughly proportional to stimulus velocity. Initial slow phase velocity measured within 500 ms after stimulus onset reached between 2 and 4 degrees/s and was largely independent of stimulus amplitudes above 10 degrees/s. Occasionally rats showed fast rises in slow phase eye velocity at the onset of the step response profiles. Primary and secondary optokinetic afternystagmus were present. Duration of primary afternystagmus was largely independent of stimulus amplitude and lasted 8.0 +/- 4 s. Closed-loop gain of steady-state step responses in monocular vision was, for temporonasal stimuli, similar to that measured in binocular condition while for nasotemporal stimulation gain was much smaller even at low stimulus velocities. Sinusoidal modulation of slow phase velocity was linearly dependent on stimulus velocity; the linear range decreased as frequency of stimulation increased. Slow phase velocity gain was relatively constant (ca 0.8) between 0.05 and 0.3 Hz and showed only a small tendency to decrease at larger stimulus frequencies. Phase-lag increased strongly with stimulus frequency and could be fitted by assuming a response time delay of 100 ms. The results show that the rat's optokinetic system is qualitatively similar to that found in another lateral-eyed species, namely the rabbit. At a quantitative level, however, both fast and slow optokinetic response dynamics appear to be better developed in the rat than in the rabbit.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The anterograde and retrograde transport of wheat germ agglutinin congugated to horseradish peroxidase was used to examine the laminar organization of cortical connections with the two visual zones that comprise the cat's lateral posterior nucleus. Microelectrophoretic deposits of the tracer into the principal tecto-recipient zone in the medial division of the lateral posterior nucleus revealed reciprocal connections with the following cortical fields: areas 19 and 21a, the medial and lateral banks of the middle suprasylvian sulcus, and the dorsal and ventral banks of the lateral suprasylvian sulcus, which correspond to the dorsal lateral suprasylvian and ventral lateral suprasylvian visual areas of Palmer et al. [(1978) Brain Res. 177, 237-256] and an area in the fundus of the posterior suprasylvian sulcus. In each of these cortical areas two distinct populations of cells were labeled, small pyramidal neurons in layer VI and large pyramidal cells in layer V. Overlying these backfilled cells were two bands of anterograde label, a narrow strip in layer I and a wide band centered in layer IV. Deposits of wheat germ agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase confined to the striate-recipient zone in the lateral portion of the lateral posterior nucleus resulted in cortical label in areas 17, 18, 19, 20a and b, 21a, the medial and lateral banks of the middle suprasylvian sulcus, the posterior suprasylvian sulcus and in the fundus of the splenial sulcus. In all cortical areas other than 17 and 18, the laminar distribution of label was the same as that found after deposits of the tracer into the medial division of the lateral posterior nucleus. In contrast, areas 17 and 18 contained backfilled cells that were confined to layer V and anterograde label that was restricted to layer I. These findings indicate that the cortical areas that receive a direct projection from the A laminae of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus maintain a distinct laminar organization of reciprocal connections with the extrageniculate visual thalamus. Conversely, all other visual areas of the cortex share a common pattern of reciprocal connections with both the tecto- and striate-recipient zones of the lateral posterior nucleus.
The present study sought to determine the distribution of the cortical areas giving rise to the corticosubthalamic nucleus projections, using extracellular stimulating and recording techniques in rats with and without chronic lesions. In acute rats, cortical stimulation induced a powerful excitation in 87% of the subthalamic nucleus cells recorded. This response was obtained from stimulation over a large extent of the cortex since nearly all the ipsilateral cortex and the rostral two-thirds of the contralateral side was found to influence the activity of the subthalamic nucleus neurones. An excitatory response quite similar to that induced by cortical stimulation was recorded in the subthalamic nucleus after striatal or internal capsule stimulations. Therefore in order to eliminate the possibility of recording a polysynaptic excitation, similar experiments were performed in rats bearing various chronic lesions. With either ipsilateral or contralateral cortical stimulations, there was no major consequence of these lesions on the type or characteristics of the response recorded or on the percentage of responding cells. The cortical origin of the excitation of the subthalamic neurones was further supported by the results of experiments performed in chronically decorticated rats. It is concluded that (1) the subthalamic nucleus receives an excitatory cortical input, (2) this control comes from ipsilateral and contralateral cortical areas and (3) it only involves direct corticosubthalamic nucleus fibres. The subthalamic nucleus is, together with the striatum, the only basal ganglia nucleus known to receive afferents from extensive regions of the cortex. By its two main afferents (cortex and external segment of the pallidum), the subthalamic nucleus is in a position to compare direct cortical informations with cortical informations processed at the striatopallidal complex level.
Various dipsogenic stimuli, including peripheral and central administration of angiotensin II, have been shown to be capable of releasing vasopressin from the neurohypophyseal system. Studies were carried out in the rat to investigate whether the septal area, which contains a high concentration of angiotensin-sensitive cells and has neural connections with hypothalamic vasopressin-secreting neurons, mediated the stimulatory effect produced by angiotensin II on vasopressin release. Rats with electrolytic lesions in the region of the septal area had increased daily water consumption and urine output when these lesions included the medioventral or lateral nuclei of the septal forebrain, but not when the lesion involved the subfornical organ. No difference was observed in drinking responses following water deprivation or intracerebroventricular injection of angiotensin II in all experimental groups. In addition, the impaired ability to maintain water homeostasis (polyuro-polydipsic syndrome) of septal-lesioned rats was associated septal-lesioned rats was associated with decreased levels of circulating radioimmunoassayable vasopressin. Furthermore, the vasopressin release which occurred in response to intracerebroventricular angiotensin II in normal controls, sham-lesioned and subfornical organ-lesioned rats was significantly attenuated in rats with electrolytic lesion of the medioventral or lateral septal area. Since cells in the lateral septal area are excited by iontophoretic application of angiotensin II, the present data might be consistent with the hypothesis that the stimulatory effect produced by central administration of angiotensin II on vasopressin release rests upon the integrity of the lateral septal area.
Extracellular single unit recordings were made in the median raphe nucleus from rats anaesthetized with urethane. Spontaneous firing as well as orthodromic and antidromic responses to stimulation of the fornix and the medial septum were studied. One hundred and twelve units (out of a total of 355) with a regular spontaneous firing rate of 0.2-3 spikes/s were classified as serotonin-containing neurons. Fifty nine of them were antidromically invaded from either the fornix or the medial septum (conduction velocity, 0.8 m/s) and 7 additional neurones from both the fornix and the medial septum. Antidromic action potentials were followed by a period of decreased probability of firing, that was already present below threshold for antidromic invasion, were proportional to the stimulation intensity and had a latency similar to orthodromic inhibition. No preferential topographical distribution within the median raphe nucleus was observed for the serotonin neurones, even those invaded antidromically. Twenty six neurones with a clear-cut anatomical location around the borders of the median raphe nucleus showed a spontaneous rhythmic activity (4-20 spikes/s) characterized by the presence of extremely prolonged silent periods (up to 5 min). Only one of these neurones was invaded antidromically from the medial septum and none from the fornix. Of the remaining non-serotonin neurones, 28 showed a very low firing rate consisting of single action potentials every 10-60 s while 189 had a spontaneous activity of 6-30 spikes/s. Regardless of their firing rate they were all antidromically invaded from the fornix and/or the medial septum and had a conduction velocity of 5 m/s. These experiments demonstrate the electrophysiological heterogeneity of the neuronal population of the median raphe nucleus, the presence of strong projections of both putative serotonin and non-serotonin neurones to the medial septum and, via the fornix, to the hippocampus, and the existence of axonal branching in both types of neurones.
Groups and sub-groups (clusters) of small granule-containing cells (&quot;small cells&quot;) were analysed at 3 and 6 micron intervals and in serial sections, in rats aged 2-13 months. Fully intraganglionic clusters of small cells were all found to receive an incoming (&quot;afferent&quot;) innervation, of the order of 3-6 afferent terminals per cell, derived from axons of preganglionic type via multifocal, symmetrical, mainly axosomatic synapses. No evidence was obtained of sharing of preganglionic inputs between small cells and principal neurones. Intraganglionic clusters also regularly gave outgoing (&quot;efferent&quot;) synapses of the asymmetrical type, of the order of 2-6 per cell, to intraganglionic nerve elements; 30-50% of these synapses were given from somata, 50-70% from processes of the small cells. Whenever the postsynaptic structure was identifiable these synapses were all found to be given to postganglionic neurones or their dendrites, principally to spine-like processes or slender twigs. In some ganglia a few efferent synapses to other small cells were observed; these were of the symmetrical type. Efferent synapses to nerve profiles resembling chemosensory axon terminals, also of the symmetrical type, were extremely infrequent (fewer than 1% of all efferent synapses) in intraganglionic small cell groups and appeared virtually restricted to glomus-like clusters of small cell, which lay intracapsularly, or in and near the bases of nerves entering or leaving the ganglion. Almost all groups and clusters of small cells were located near to fenestrated capillary vessels, which are not found elsewhere in the ganglion. The implications of possible non-synaptic release of material from small cells via membrane regions not covered by satellite cell cytoplasm, were explored in a nearest-neighbour analysis. These &quot;exposed&quot; regions comprised 1-3% of the small cell surface, a proportion comparable with those engaged in receiving afferent synapses or in giving efferent synapses. The majority of such regions faced toward other nerve profiles (axons and dendrites) ensheathed in satellite cytoplasm (mean 30%), intraganglionic tissue spaces wider than 3 micron (mean, 30%) or other small cells (mean, 14%); 25% faced toward blood vessels, but of these vascularly directed regions, only one fifth (or 5% of the total) on average faced directly toward fenestrated endothelium, the rest being non-fenestrated and/or separated by pericyte processes from the exposed regions of small cell membrane. Thirty-three percent of the small cells in a sample of 242 lay within 2 micron of the nearest blood vessel.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
To detect neuronal cell bodies whose axon projects to the hypothalamic supraoptic nucleus, small volumes (10-50 nl) of 30% horseradish peroxidase or 2% fast blue solutions were pressure-injected into the area of one supraoptic nucleus of rats. Both dorsal and ventral approaches to the nucleus were used. In animals where the injection site extended beyond the limits of the supraoptic nucleus, retrogradely labelled cell bodies were found in many areas of the brain, mainly in the septum, the nucleus of the diagonal band of Broca and ventral subiculum in the limbic system; the dorsal raphe nucleus, the locus coeruleus, the nucleus of the dorsal tegmentum, the dorsal parabrachial nucleus, the nucleus of the solitary tract and the catecholaminergic A1 region in the brain stem; in the subfornical organ and the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis, as well as in the median preoptic nucleus. In contrast, when the site of injection was apparently restricted to the supraoptic nucleus, labelling was only clearcut in the two circumventricular organs, the median preoptic nucleus, the nucleus of the solitary tract and the A1 region. Injections of wheat germ agglutinin coupled with horseradish peroxidase (60-80 nl of a 2.5% solution) made in the septum and in the ventral subiculum anterogradely labelled fibers coursing in an area immediately adjacent to the supraoptic nucleus but not within it. In contrast, labelling within the nucleus was found following anterograde transport of tracer deposited in the A1 region and in an area that includes the nucleus of the solitary tract. Neurones located in the perinuclear area were densely labelled by small injections into the supraoptic nucleus; they may represent a relay station for some afferent inputs to the supraoptic nucleus. These results suggest that the supraoptic nucleus is influenced by the same brain areas which project to its companion within the magnocellular system, the paraventricular nucleus.
Restricted microelectrophoretic injections either of free horseradish peroxidase or of horseradish peroxidase conjugated with wheat germ agglutinin were given to albino rats in order to study the afferent connections of structures of the subthalamic region. The results suggest that the zona incerta receives its main input from several territories of the cerebral cortex, the mesencephalic reticular formation, deep cerebellar nuclei, regions of the sensory trigeminal nuclear complex and the dorsal column nuclei. Substantial input to the zona incerta appears to come from the superior colliculus, the anterior pretectal nucleus and the periaqueductal gray substance, whereas many other structures, among which hypothalamic nuclei, the locus coeruleus, the raphe complex, the parabrachial area and medial districts of the pontomedullary reticular formation, seem to represent relatively modest but consistent additional input sources. The afferentation of neurons in Forel's fields H1 and H2 appears to conform to the general pattern outlined above. As pointed out in the Discussion, the present results provide hodological support for the classic concept according to which the zona incerta can be regarded as a rostral extent of the midbrain reticular core. Some of the possible physiological correlates of the fiber connections of the zona incerta in the context of the sleep-waking cycle, ingestive behaviors, somatic motor mechanisms, visual functions and nociceptive behavior are briefly discussed.
Microelectrode recordings were made from 5-10 micron dia axons of adult rat spinal cord in vitro. Action potentials in response to electrical stimulation were recorded intracellularly and electrical characteristics of the axons were examined by injecting current pulses through a bridge circuit. All action potentials larger in amplitude than 80 mV were followed by depolarizing afterpotentials, similar to those recorded in peripheral axons [Barrett and Barrett (1982) J. Physiol., Lond. 323, 117-144]. The afterpotential could be described as the sum of three exponential components, the time constants of which (tau 1, tau 2 and tau 3) were 25.2 +/- 5.6, 3.1 +/- 0.8 and 0.8 +/0 0.3 ms, respectively, at 25 degrees C and a membrane potential of -80 mV. The maximal amplitudes of the afterpotential components, obtained by extrapolating to the peak of the action potential, were 3.8 +/- 1.0, 6.4 +/- 5.2 and 21.7 +/- 9.8 mV, for action potential amplitudes of 102 +/- 11 mV. The amplitude of the longest component of the afterpotential decreased with depolarization and increased with hyperpolarization at the recording site. The amplitude decreased markedly with increase of temperature to physiological levels, in conjunction with the expected decrease in action potential duration. Similar afterpotential components were present in the response of the axon to injected hyperpolarizing current pulses. The observations are consistent with the suggestion [Barrett and Barrett (1982) J. Physiol., Lond. 323, 117-144] that the afterpotential results from charging of the axolemmal capacitance by current passing through the myelin sheath during the action potential. They are inconsistent with a number of calculations of electrical characteristics of peripheral axons derived from voltage clamp experiments in isolated fibers. It is argued that the electrical resistance of the myelin lamellae is relatively low, though within the range calculated for other glial membranes. This suggestion is found more compatible with the available morphological data than the alternative proposal that a leakage pathway under the myelin sheath might be responsible for the afterpotential [Barrett and Barrett (1982) J. Physiol., Lond. 323, 117-144]. The significance of this organization for the function of myelinated axons and the electrical basis of the afterpotential are examined further in the accompanying paper [Blight (1985) Neuroscience 15, 13-31].
alpha-Difluoromethylornithine specifically and irreversibly inhibits the enzyme ornithine decarboxylase. Ornithine decarboxylase catalyses the initial step in the synthesis of polyamines, which are thought to play an essential role in growth and development of mammalian tissues. The current study examined the effects of alpha-difluoromethylornithine on the ontogenic development of the rat cerebellar cortex. Animals injected daily with alpha-difluoromethylornithine on postnatal days 1-21 suffered a deficit in the number of granule cells and many of the remaining granule cells became trapped in the molecular layer during migration. Purkinje cells were also scattered throughout the molecular layer and their mean diameter was 38% smaller than in controls. In general, the cerebellar cortex of alpha-difluoromethylornithine-treated rats failed to progress much beyond the stage of development reached in control rats during the first postnatal week. These effects of alpha-difluoromethylornithine were already clearly visible at 10-15 days of age. The final size of the cerebellum as a whole and of individual folia was markedly subnormal. These data indicate that polyamines play an obligatory role in cerebellar neurogenesis and histogenesis.
With serotonin immunocytochemistry we have demonstrated an extensive plexus of immunoreactive varicose fibres in the neural sheath of the nervous system of the blowfly, Calliphora. These fibres are located in the neural sheath of the following regions: the maxillary-labial and labrofrontal nerves of the cerebral ganglia, the cervical connective, the dorsal surface of the thoracicoabdominal ganglia, two pairs of prothoracic nerves and the median abdominal nerve. We identified the serotonin-immunoreactive neural processes in the electron microscope by means of the peroxidase-antiperoxidase method. Immunoreactivity was seen in large granular vesicles (ca 100 nm), on membranes of smaller (ca 60 nm) and larger (ca 100 nm) agranular vesicles, along the inner surface of the axolemma, along neurotubules and outer membranes of mitochondria. By conventional electron microscopy we found numerous varicose neural processes in the neural sheath of some of the above regions. These varicosities are of at least two types. One type corresponds to the serotonin-immunoreactive profiles. A second type contains large granular vesicles (ca 200 nm) of variable electron density. 5,7-Dihydroxytryptamine injected into the head capsule labelled varicosities in the neural sheath, corresponding to the ones identified with serotonin immunocytochemistry. The electron-dense labelling was seen in flattened vesicles within these varicosities. We propose that the serotonin-immunoreactive fibers in the neural sheath constitute neurohemal regions for the release of serotonin into the circulation. The finding of another morphological type of varicose fibers in the neural sheath suggests the presence of further putative neurohormones in these regions.
The distribution of neuropeptide Y in the developing rat brain was studied with immunocytochemistry, using the peroxidase-antiperoxidase method. Immunoreactive perikarya were first seen on embryonic day 13 and staining of fibres appeared from embryonic day 15 onwards: perikaryal staining was generally more intense prenatally than after birth. Areas rich in neuropeptide Y immunostaining included the monoaminergic regions of the brain stem from embryonic day 13 (especially the lateral reticular nucleus and the medullary reticular formation), the dorsal mesencephalon (with spots of immunoreactivity in the outer subventricular zone at embryonic days 13 or 14 and many cells and fibres in the inferior colliculus from embryonic days 16-20) and the olfactory tubercle/ventral striatum from embryonic day 15 until birth. The period of development of cortical neurones extended from embryonic day 19 until postnatal day 21. A hitherto unreported feature unique to neuropeptide Y was the presence in certain parts of the cerebral cortex of transient cells at the base of the cortical plate bearing radial processes which transverse its width. They were present from embryonic day 17 until postnatal day 4 and were maximally developed at embryonic days 20 or 21, contributing at this age a substantial fibre projection through the immature corpus callosum. The abundance of neuropeptide Y in the prenatal rat brain suggests it may play an important role in development.
The distribution of the enzyme protein-O-carboxylmethyltransferase (EC 2.1.1.24) has been investigated in the rat brain using both immunohistochemical and biochemical techniques. The enzyme, which carboxylmethylates free aspartic and glutamic acid residues of protein substrates, was localized in neurons, but not other cell types throughout the brain. The highest immunoreactivity was detected throughout the cortex, followed by the hippocampus, the corpus striatum, the thalamus and the amygdala. Immunoreactive cells were detected in other brain regions but were not as prominent as those regions listed above. The distribution of immunoreactivity in the hippocampus was most striking, with considerable labelling of the pyramidal and granule cells in all regions. Numerous pyramidal cells were labelled in the cerebral cortex, with some ascending processes exhibiting immunoreactivity. The corpus striatum was uniformly labelled, suggesting that the enzyme was not localized to any specific neurotransmitter system. The antisera employed in this study was generated against purified bovine brain protein-O-carboxylmethyltransferase and Western immunoblot analysis showed cross reactivity against both rat brain and human erythrocyte forms of the enzyme. Enzyme activity and methyl acceptor protein capacity were examined in 1.5 mm coronal sections of rat brain. The regions with highest enzyme activities were found in cross-sections containing cortex and corpus striatum or cortex and hippocampus. The lowest enzyme activities were noted in slices of brainstem and cerebellum, areas exhibiting low amounts of immunoreactive protein-O-carboxylmethyltransferase. Methyl acceptor protein capacity was highest in slices of cortex and corpus striatum, cortex and hippocampus and was lowest in slices of brainstem and cerebellum. These results demonstrate that protein-O-carboxylmethyltransferase has an unique neuronal pattern of distribution in the rodent central nervous system, and suggest that the carboxylmethylation of proteins may be of functional significance in these neurons.
Cholecystokinin octapeptide and the C-terminal tetrapeptide are hydrolysed by a highly purified preparation of &quot;enkephalinase&quot; (EC 3.4.24.11). In both cases the Asp-PheNH2 bond is hydrolysed and the Gly4-Trp5 bond of the octapeptide is also cleaved, though more slowly. Evaluated from the appearance of Phe-NH2, the Km for the hydrolysis of the octapeptide by the purified peptidase is 57 microM and that for the tetrapeptide 65 microM. The apparent affinities of these peptides for the enzyme in striatal membranes are similar. The importance of this hydrolysis in the inactivation of endogenous cholecystokinin was assessed by studying the fate of cholecystokinin immunoreactivity released from slices of rat cerebral cortex and striatum by depolarization with potassium. In the absence of any peptidase inhibitor only 16% of the peptide released from the tissue was recovered in immunoreactive form in the medium, indicating that endogenous cholecystokinin octapeptide is, like other neuropeptides, rapidly and extensively hydrolysed following release. Selective inhibition of &quot;enkephalinase&quot; by Thiorphan (DL-3-mercapto-2-benzylpropanoyl glycine) did not significantly alter the recovery from slices of cerebral cortex and had only a very slight effect in the case of striatal slices. This suggests that, while cholecystokinin octapeptide is a substrate for &quot;enkephalinase&quot;, this enzyme plays a less important (if any) role in the inactivation of endogenous cholecystokinin than for the opioid peptides.
Unilateral injections of a putative kappa-opiate receptor agonist, ethylketocyclazocine, into the globus pallidus of rats caused dose-dependent ipsiversive circling which was inhibited by prior systemic administration of the opiate receptor antagonist naloxone. Neither a putative delta-opiate receptor agonist ( [D-Ala2, D-Leu5]enkephalin) nor a putative mu-opiate receptor agonist (Tyr-D-Ala-Gly-MePhe-Met(0)-ol) induced circling behaviour after unilateral intrapallidal injection. Bilateral intrapallidal injection of the delta-opiate receptor agonist or the mu-opiate receptor agonist caused an increase in locomotor activity which in both cases was reduced by systemic administration of naloxone. A specific delta-receptor antagonist, (N,N-bisalyl-Tyr-Gly-Gly-psi-(CH2S)-Phe-Leu-OH) had no effect on the increase in locomotor activity caused by the delta-opiate receptor agonist. Bilateral intrapallidal injection of the kappa-opiate receptor agonist had no effect on locomotor activity. It is suggested that different opiate receptor subtypes within the globus pallidus differentially mediate circling and locomotor behaviour.
The tetradecapeptide somatostatin has been shown to have a widespread distribution in the rat brain. Except for its role in the inhibition of growth hormone secretion, the function of this molecule in the remainder of the central nervous system is unknown. To address this problem, the distribution of somatostatin-like immunoreactivity in the guinea-pig brainstem was examined systematically. Of 116 nuclei and/or areas, 34 nuclei had somatostatin neurons, 32 did not have any immunoreactivity and the remainder had immunoreactive fibers and/or terminals. Cranial nerve motor nuclei--somatic, branchiomeric and visceral--did not contain somatostatin neurons; somatostatin fibers were present in all nuclei with the exception of the somatic motor nuclei which innervate the ocular muscles. Of the cranial nerve sensory nuclei--both somatic and visceral--somatostatin neurons were present only in the somatic nuclei nervi spinal trigeminal caudalis, interpolaris and oralis; all of these nuclei, however, contained substantial numbers of immunoreactive fibers. Somatostatin neurons and fibers were also present in the spinal somatic sensory nuclei cuneatus medialis and gracilis. Of the cranial nerve special somatic sensory nuclei, somatostatin neurons were present in two vestibular nuclei--spinalis and medialis--and in the ventral cochlear nucleus. Not all of these nuclei contained somatostatin fibers. Of the nuclei related to the auditory system, somatostatin neurons were present only in the dorsal and ventral trapezoid nuclei and in the cortex of the inferior colliculus. In nuclei of the visual system in the brainstem, somatostatin neurons were present only in the superior colliculus. Of the raphe nuclei, four had somatostatin neurons--magnus, obscurus, pallidus and superior centralis; somatostatin fibers were present in all raphe nuclei. Of 24 nuclei in the reticular formation, 12 had somatostatin neurons--most notably nuclei gigantocellularis and paragigantocellularis--and only two nuclei, paranigralis and sagulum, did not contain any immunoreactive fibers. In the cerebellum, somatostatin fibers and terminals were restricted to the deep cerebellar nuclei. Of the 11 nuclei projecting to the cerebellum, five contained somatostatin neurons and the majority received somatostatin fibers. Of the limbic system nuclei, somatostatin neurons were confined to the central grey at both pontine and mesencephalic levels. Somatostatin neurons were present in the substantia nigra--compactus and lateralis, but not in reticularis--and absent from the nucleus ruber.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The aim of this study was to investigate the density and distribution of synapses on the axonal tree of a pyramidal cell in the mouse cortex. The method used was a new variation of Golgi-electron microscopy involving the modification of Colonnier, the photochemical method of Blackstad and the use of phosphotungstic acid. A segment of axon collateral of 87 microns carried 17 synapses, the proximal 27 microns being free of synapses. The main axon was postsynaptic down to a length of 30 microns. On the following 163 microns there were six presynaptic elements. On the proximal parts of four other collaterals, five synapses were found; a few synapses might, however, have been missed on these ramifications. Most of the synapses were located on thickenings already visible in the light microscope. The synaptic size varied by a factor of 2.7. The results are compared to estimates derived from former statistical investigations with other light and electron microscopical methods.
The effects of carbachol, veratridine and high K on the influx of 22Na were investigated in relation to the influx of 45Ca and the secretion of catecholamines in cultured bovine adrenal medulla cells, in which stimulation of nicotinic but not muscarinic acetylcholine receptor causes the secretory response. (1) Carbachol caused a rapid influx of 22Na, influx of 45Ca and secretion of catecholamines, all of which occurred within 1 min and leveled off thereafter. Influx of 45Ca and secretion of catecholamines caused by carbachol were not inhibited by tetrodotoxin, but were greatly reduced in Na-free medium. Nicotine evoked an influx of 22Na and it was antagonized by hexamethonium and d-tubocurarine but not by tetrodotoxin. Muscarine had no effect on 22Na influx. The concentration-response curve of carbachol for 22Na influx was quite similar to that for 45Ca influx. (2) Veratridine induced a sustained influx of 22Na, influx of 45Ca and secretion of catecholamines, all of which were antagonized by tetrodotoxin. Influx of 45Ca and secretion of catecholamines due to veratridine were not observed in Na-free medium. (3) High K caused an influx of 45Ca and secretion of catecholamines but did not cause an influx of 22Na. High K-induced influx of 45Ca and secretion of catecholamines were not inhibited by tetrodotoxin nor by Na removal. (4) Magnesium, an inhibitor of voltage-dependent Ca channels, inhibited the influx of 45Ca and secretion of catecholamines caused by carbachol, veratridine and high K. These results indicate that cultured bovine adrenal medulla cells have at least three distinct ion channels: (1) nicotinic acetylcholine receptor-associated Na channels which are not inhibited by tetrodotoxin, (2) voltage-dependent Na channels which are kept activated by veratridine and inhibited by tetrodotoxin and (3) voltage-dependent Ca channels. Influx of Ca through voltage-dependent Ca channels is the common ionic event for the secretion of catecholamines caused by either carbachol, veratridine or high K. It seems that the influx of Na through acetylcholine receptor-associated Na channels as well as voltage-dependent Na channels, activates voltage-dependent Ca channels which triggers the secretion of catecholamines.
Depolarizing afterpotentials, recorded in peripheral nerves [Barrett and Barrett (1982) J. Physiol., Lond. 323, 117-144] and spinal axons [Blight and Someya (1985) Neuroscience 15, 1-12], have been interpreted as representing passive discharge of axolemmal capacitance. This interpretation requires a lower resistance pathway through the myelin sheath than previous measurements have suggested. A computer model was used to examine the contribution of the electrical characteristics of nerve fibers to action potential conduction and afterpotential generation. The model consisted of a resistance-capacitance network representing a chain of 20 internodes. The resistances of node, internode and myelin sheath, deduced from observations in the accompanying paper, [Blight and Someya (1985) Neuroscience, 15] were found to produce suitable length and time constants, and prolonged afterpotentials, when inserted into the model. Similar length and time constants were found using a conventional model of the axon, based on measurements from isolated peripheral fibers, but this did not reproduce the afterpotentials. Action-potential conduction velocity is enhanced by reducing the time constant and increasing the length constant. The problem of minimizing the internodal time constant was met in the conventional model through the low parallel resistance of the node, while in the new model it was met by reducing the resistance of the myelin sheath. The latter strategy required the nodal leakage resistance to be higher than values from single fiber measurements (ca 250 M omega rather than ca 50 M omega) in order to maintain the length constant similar to the conventional model. Simulation of the recorded potentials required the resistance of the myelin lamellae to be approx. 100 omega cm2. The model quantitatively reproduced the voltage response of the axon to injected current pulses and to propagated action potentials, using Frankenhaeuser-Huxley kinetics. [Frankenhaeuser and Huxley (1964) J. Physiol., Lond. 171, 302-315; Frankenhaeuser and Moore (1963) J. Physiol., Lond. 169, 431-437]. The short duration components of the afterpotential, observed in mammalian recordings were reproduced by assuming a leakage pathway in the myelin sheath, at the impalement site. The calculated lower resistance of the myelin sheath was such that it minimized the effective internodal time constant for a given nodal resistance. This appears to free the myelinated fiber from the alternative requirement for a high nodal leakage conductance.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
An in-vivo method for the assessment of the latency of muscular contraction is presented. It is based on acoustic registration of muscular thickening by a microphone. It was found that the recorded sound wave is often preceded by a small wave of opposite polarity (flattening of the muscle belly) which is an acoustic correlate of the latency relaxation. Strong direct stimulation produced another small sound wave at the beginning of the latent period. The physiological significance of these findings is discussed.
Several single unit electrophysiological studies that have investigated central adrenoceptors are reviewed. The techniques and paradigms employed to electrophysiologically assay such adrenoceptors are discussed. Several regions of the brain, e.g., the nucleus locus coeruleus, the dorsal raphe nucleus, the lateral geniculate nucleus, and the cerebellar Purkinje neurons, are examined in detail, with reference to the nature of the adrenoceptor(s) located on these neurons. From the studies reviewed, it can be concluded that single unit electrophysiological recordings provide a valuable and powerful assay for adrenoceptors. Modification of this technique to study adrenoceptors from awake (behaving) or chronically treated animals is likely to result in significant advances in our understanding of mechanisms contributing to neuroreceptor plasticity.
A new technique of simultaneously recording from ion-selective and voltammetric microelectrodes in vivo allows one to measure concomitant ionic and monoamine neurotransmitter fluxes in the extracellular fluid space of the brain. Examples are presented of the results obtained with various drug and stimulus applications. The time correlations of the ionic and neurotransmitter fluxes are especially useful in attempting to better understand the possible interactions of these chemical dynamics with neuronal functioning.
Retrograde axonal transport and fluorescent retrograde labelling of neurons were investigated in a crustacean motor system. A fluorescent tracer (Granular blue) was injected into an antennal muscle of rock lobster in order to identify the motor neurons innervating it. After an appropriate post-injection survival time, the fluorescent tracer was found to have labelled motor neurons in the central ganglion. This result indicates that after uptake by the axon terminals, the fluorescent tracer was retrogradely transported through axons of motor neurons to the parent cell bodies.
Recent advances in neuroscience have resulted in theoretical and technological developments and a substantial data base that provide new opportunities for those involved in exercise studies. The scope of opportunities available as a result of these advances is explored in brief reviews of four areas of inquiry: phase- and state-dependent reflexes; the effects of motor activity on neuronal responses to injury; the orderly recruitment of motor units; and fatigue. Within the framework of a tripartite neural control model, an examination of the extent of our knowledge on fatigue revealed two features. First, although numerous failure sites have been identified as potential contributors to the force reduction of fatigue, little is known about the relative significance of these failure sites in everyday activity. Second, technical developments have made it feasible to address the central nervous system aspects of fatigue on a cellular basis.

The prevalence of FRSs of Schneider was studied in three groups of functional psychoses. They were most common in schizophrenia (53.3 %) followed by affective psychosis (33.3 %) and reactive psychosis (23.3 %). Thought broadcast, thought insertion and thought withdrawal were commonest in schizophrenia. There was a suggestion that made volitional acts and commenting voices were more commonly present in patients with a diagnosis of depression. There was no distinctive FRS profile in reactive psychosis. A strong correlation also emerged between FRS and a family history of schizophrenia.

In this paper, an alternative procedure for the histochemical detection of HRP using amonium heptamolybdate (AHM) as a stabilizing agent and tetramethyl benzidine (TMB) as a chromogen is reported. This procedure avoids the two main problems that occur in previous methods using sodium nitroferricyanide (SNF) as the stabilizer, namely, the appearance of needle-shaped crystals at non-specific anatomical sites, and intensive tissue shrinkage. A comparative study of both, the TMB-AHM and TMB-SNF methods, was performed in the analysis of cerebral cortex afferent connections of the lizard Podarcis hispanica. This study demonstrates that the two methods are of similar sensitivity. The TMB-AHM reaction can be carried out at physiological pH (from 6 to 8), thus, avoiding tissue contraction. The reaction product is of an intense blue-green colour and, as with the TMB-SNF method, shows granulation. The appearance of non-specific precipitates is completely avoided when the incubation medium is maintained at a pH in excess of 5.
A simple and efficient program for removing the hidden lines from the computer graphics display of a three-dimensional structure has been developed. The algorithm is optimized for serial section reconstruction, that is, for three-dimensional structures composed of a series of stacked planar outlines. Using the algorithm, an anatomist can generate a realistic static picture of a reasonably complex reconstruction in about 20 s on a small laboratory computer.
In a light and electron microscopic study of the substantia nigra of the rat, the distribution and morphology of nigrotectal neurons and the pattern of termination of striatonigral fibres have been examined following the placement of horseradish peroxidase injections in the superior colliculus and kainic acid lesions in the dorsal striatum. In confirmation of previous findings, nigrotectal neurons which had been identified by the retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase from the superior colliculus had mainly medium sized somata, varied from fusiform to stellate in shape and were found in mainly ventral regions of the rostral two-thirds of the substantia nigra pars reticulata. On electron microscopic examination, single and multiple (from two to six) degenerating striatonigral boutons were found in synaptic contact with the soma, proximal mainstem dendrites and small dendrites (but mainly on small dendrites) of labelled nigrotectal and unlabelled nigral neurons in the ventral region of the pars reticulata. In addition, a small number of degenerating striatonigral boutons formed axoaxonic synapses with degenerating or normal boutons which were presynaptic to nigral dendrites. Almost all of the identified striatonigral synapses were of the symmetrical type, although a few degenerating boutons established asymmetrical synaptic contacts on unlabelled dendrites. These findings provide evidence of a monosynaptic input from the dorsal striatum to nigrotectal projection neurons in the substantia nigra and thus demonstrate the existence of a bineuronal pathway from the striatum through the substantia nigra to the superior colliculus. The possible significance of the pattern of termination of striatonigral fibres in the substantia nigra is discussed with reference to the known dendritic arborization of nigral neurons.
This report examines the morphological changes that occur in a line of human neuroblastoma cells (LA-N-5) following treatment with retinoic acid, in vitro. The results demonstrate that retinoic acid induces pronounced differentiation of these cells. Perikarya aggregate into tight clusters and extend long processes that are frequently fasciculated. Growth cones appear at the ends of these processes. Transmission electron microscopy reveals that after 10 days of treatment these long neurites give rise to varicosities which contain clusters of large dense-core vesicles and smaller clear vesicles. After 18 days of treatment the cultures cease to differentiate further. The pattern of neurite outgrowth is very complex by this point and the frequency of growth cones and vesicle-containing varicosities is greatly increased compared with shorter treatments. Most of these varicosities contain a mix of large dense-core vesicles and smaller clear vesicles and in some profiles the clear vesicles are round while in others they are pleomorphic. Despite this increase in the number of vesicle-containing profiles no membrane specializations were seen that resemble mature synapses. The present results demonstrate that retinoic acid can produce morphological changes in these cells in culture, and that these changes closely mimic those of normal differentiating neurons in culture. Considered with previous studies, these findings suggest that this cell line might provide a useful model system for studying neural differentiation.
Tamoxifen citrate, a mixed estrogen agonist-antagonist, and estradiol 17-beta administered separately for 14 days significantly reduced dopamine and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid in the cortex and hypothalamus regions of the brain in immature female rabbits. In addition to these areas, estradiol also reduced dopamine and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid in the striatum but tamoxifen treatment significantly reduced only dihydroxyphenylacetic acid concentration in the striatum. When estradiol and tamoxifen were injected together, dopamine and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid concentrations were reduced only in the cortex. Specific binding of [3H]spiperone to dopamine receptors was significantly increased by both estradiol and tamoxifen in the hypothalamus but only tamoxifen increased dopamine binding in the striatum. A low dose of tamoxifen, either alone or in combination with estradiol, increased uterine weight, but a higher dose of tamoxifen was neither an estrogen agonist nor antagonist. These studies indicate that estradiol and tamoxifen alter dopamine metabolism in the various regions of brain differentially. The estrogen agonist activity of tamoxifen does not correspond to antidopaminergic action of estradiol in the striatum.
The role of the cholinergic nucleus basalis magnocellularis in spatial learning and memory was studied in the rat. Animals received bilateral injections of ibotenic acid (5 micrograms/microliters) into the region of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis. Six weeks postoperatively they were deprived of food and trained for 5 weeks in a 16-arm radial maze in which 9 of the arms were baited with food. The nucleus basalis magnocellularis-lesioned animals showed significant deficits in the acquisition of the task. Further analysis of the data indicated that this was due primarily to a deficit in reference (long-term) as opposed to working (short-term) memory. After the 5-week training period the nucleus basalis magnocellularis-lesioned animals received intraperitoneal injections of physostigmine sulphate (0.5 mg/kg) 30 min before each daily trial for 1 week. This treatment resulted in a significant improvement in the performance of the spatial memory task on all three measures. The ibotenate lesions reduced the activity of choline acetyltransferase by about 40% in the anterior cortex and by 15% in the posterior cortex. Hippocampal choline acetyltransferase activity was not affected, indicating that the septohippocampal cholinergic projection was spared by the lesions. The activity of glutamate decarboxylase was not affected in any of these regions. These results suggest that the cholinergic projections of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis play an important role in the acquisition of a spatial memory task.
A review about the neural regulation of the membrane distribution of muscle acetylcholine receptors is presented on the basis of author's and literature data. The main evidence in support of the role of nerve impulses and of chemical factors (&quot;trophic&quot; factors, acetylcholine, nerve breakdown products) as neural signals involved in the origin of denervation supersensitivity, is concisely described and evaluated. The contribution of breakdown products of the nerve, their interaction with muscle inactivity are illustrated and a unifying hypothesis on the neural control of extrajunctional and junctional acetylcholine receptors is presented.
The distribution of serotonin in the spinal cord in two species of lamprey, Ichthyomyzon unicuspis and Petromyzon marinus, was studied by indirect immunofluorescence techniques. Multipolar cell bodies containing serotonin-like immunoreactivity were found along the length of the spinal cord, along the midline and slightly ventral to the central canal. These cell bodies send a diffuse projection of processes throughout the spinal cord, including: (1) a dense projection to the ventral surface; (2) a strong projection to the ventromedial longitudinal fiber tracts; (3) a less intense projection to the dorsal longitudinal fiber tracts; and (4) a weak projection to the lateral fiber tracts. Lesion experiments showed that processes descending from the brain or rostral spinal cord provide a major projection to the lateral fiber tracts and smaller contributions to the dorsal and ventromedial fiber tracts. Fluorescent processes were also observed in the dorsal roots and serotonergic peripheral cell bodies were seen adjacent to the dorsal roots. Our results suggest that the serotonergic innervation of the lamprey spinal cord arises from three sources: spinal interneurons, descending tracts and peripheral (possibly sensory) input. This provides an anatomical substrate for our recent finding that serotonin modulates the central pattern generator for locomotion in the lamprey spinal cord.
The distribution of microtubule-associated protein 2 in cultured cerebellar granule cell neurons was followed by immunohistochemical staining with specific antibodies. During differentiation in vitro, the neurites of these cells pass through a series of developmental stages. At first the emergent processes contain only trace levels of microtubule-associated protein 2 which is most concentrated in and near the cell body. When the neurites are between two and five cell diameters long they exhibit both microtubule-associated protein 2 and tubulin, apparently evenly distributed, throughout their length. Subsequently microtubule-associated protein 2 is limited to an initial, usually varicose portion of the neurite whereas its long distal extension contains abundant tubulin but is apparently devoid of microtubule-associated protein 2. Thus microtubule-associated protein 2 and tubulin are not necessarily co-distributed with a single neuronal process. In both morphological appearance and in the different distributions of microtubule-associated protein 2 and tubulin they contain, these processes show a mixture of axonal and dendritic properties. Since these same cells do not develop their characteristic dendritic arborizations, our results suggest that when removed from the developing brain, cerebellar granule neurons achieve part but not all of their normal morphological and cytoskeletal differentiation.
In human fetus, newborn, infant and adult hypothalami, antibodies to ovine corticoliberin-41 stain a paraventriculo-infundibular neuroglandular pathway. The perikarya are located in the paraventricular nucleus, they mainly project to the ventral and lateral areas of the median eminence. Eminential corticoliberin-positive fibres appear during the 16th week of fetal life, and increase in number during the following weeks. Perikarya were first revealed in the 19th week. In some areas of the median eminence, corticoliberin-, vasopressin- or [Met]enkephalin-immunoreactive terminals are similarly distributed. Sequential stainings or staining comparison of contiguous semi-thin sections failed to prove the coexpression of corticoliberin and [Met]enkephalin immunoreactivities in fibres, but indicated that corticoliberin and vasopressin immunoreactivities may be coexpressed in a few fibres. Those methods enabled us to observe, in the paraventricular nucleus, perikarya revealed by corticoliberin and vasopressin antisera. Our results suggest a possible release of corticoliberin in portal vessels of the median eminence beginning in the 16th week of fetal life, i.e. 8 weeks later than appearance of the corticotrophs in the pituitary. Establishment of a corticoliberin hypothalamic control of pituitary corticotrophs at mid gestation agrees with previous physiological and teratological studies. Abundance, as well as immunostaining intensity of the corticoliberin processes, in the infant and adult median eminence attest to the physiological importance of this system. Close vicinity of corticoliberin, vasopressin and [Met]enkephalin fibres, in some eminential areas and coexpression of corticoliberin and vasopressin immunoreactivities in some neurons, are morphological correlates of functional relations which were reported.
Changes in the density of alpha 1- and beta-adrenergic receptors were studied following denervation of rat cerebral cortex and hyperinnervation of cerebellum and motor trigeminal nucleus, caused by neonatal 6-hydroxydopamine treatment. Four well-defined thalamic projection zones to cortex were studied separately using tissue punch methodology. Both alpha 1- and beta-adrenergic receptors were unevenly distributed in motor, sensory, visual and auditory cortex. The density of alpha 1-adrenergic receptors correlated better with the norepinephrine content of the punches (r = 0.62) than did the density of beta-adrenergic receptors (r = 0.38). Noradrenergic denervation increased both alpha 1- and beta-adrenergic receptor density in almost all cortical areas studied, however the percentage increase was larger for beta- than alpha 1-adrenergic receptors. The change in receptor density was largest in visual cortex and smallest in somatosensory cortex for both receptor sub-types. Noradrenergic hyperinnervation caused a 15-18% decrease in both alpha 1- and beta-adrenergic receptor density in the motor trigeminal nucleus of the pons, but did not change the density of either receptor type in the cerebellum. In general, following either noradrenergic denervation or hyperinnervation the change in alpha 1-adrenergic receptor density was correlated (r = 0.64, P less than 0.005) with the change in beta-adrenergic receptor density in each region, suggesting that these different receptor sub-types are under similar control mechanisms.
A combined retrograde tracing-immunofluorescent technique was used to identify the relationships between the cellular population projecting to the parabrachial nucleus and the serotonin-immunoreactive cell population of the area postrema in rats. The retrograde fluorescent tracer True Blue was injected in the parabrachial region and 3 days later the animals were perfused. Serial cryostat sections were processed for serotonin immunofluorescence. Three different groups of labeled cells were identified in the area postrema. First, True Blue-positive cells (up to 250/section) that project to the parabrachial nucleus were observed distributed throughout the area postrema. Second, in the pargyline (a monoamine oxidase inhibitor)-treated animals a large number of serotonergic cells (up to 125/section) was observed distributed throughout the area postrema. There was a tendency to a heavier distribution of serotonin-immunoreactive cells in the dorsal two-thirds of the area postrema. Third, double-labelled cells were also seen. Twenty percent of the True Blue-labelled cells projecting to the parabrachial nucleus were serotonin-immunoreactive. Thirty nine percent of the serotonin-immunoreactive population was retrogradely labelled with True Blue. Thus a new serotonergic pathway from the area postrema to the parabrachial nucleus is described; this pathway may be important in the ascending transmission and modulation of chemical and visceral sensory input.
Binding of gamma-aminobutyrate and benzodiazepine receptor ligands has been studied in the cerebellum of adult normal (C3H) and Lurcher mutant mice. The adult mutant has lost all Purkinje cells and more than 90% of the granule cells in the cerebellar cortex. When compared with their normal littermates Lurcher mice displayed large decreases in the number of high-affinity binding sites for [3H]muscimol, a synaptic gamma-aminobutyrate receptor ligand, in washed cerebellar homogenates. This observation was consistent with the extensive loss of gamma-aminobutyrate receptive Purkinje and granule cells from the Lurcher cerebellum. However, specific binding of the benzodiazepine-receptor ligand [3H]flunitrazepam to Lurcher cerebellum remained unchanged. Indeed quantitative autoradiography, employing [3H]flunitrazepam as a photoaffinity label, showed no significant differences in the density of labelling between Lurcher and normal littermate mice in any region of the cerebellum. These benzodiazepine binding sites in washed homogenates or tissue sections displayed a gamma-aminobutyrate-induced enhancement of [3H]flunitrazepam binding which occurred to the same extent in both Lurcher and normal cerebellum, a facilitatory effect which could be blocked by the addition of bicuculline methobromide. Our results suggest that a large proportion of the high-affinity, specific benzodiazepine binding sites in mouse cerebellum are not coupled to the synaptic gamma-aminobutyrate receptors thought to be labelled by high affinity [3H]muscimol binding. Further, that benzodiazepine binding sites do not appear to be enriched on either the soma or dendrites of Purkinje cells, as has been suggested from previous studies. Investigations at the electron microscope level are now required to elucidate the cellular location of benzodiazepine binding sites in the cerebellar cortex and to examine whether or not they are likely to be exposed to gamma-aminobutyrate in vivo.
Intracellular recordings of 31 lateral geniculate nucleus relay neurons were performed in darkness in behaving cats in order to analyse electrical postsynaptic events which appeared during slow-wave sleep. A specific pattern characterized slow-wave sleep: a rapid depolarizing potential arising from baseline initiated a slow depolarization lasting for 40-60 ms which in turn most often elicited delayed fast spikes. This pattern recurred at a frequency of 6-12/s. The slow depolarizations were voltage dependent, usually not separated by any obvious phasic hyperpolarization and showed refractoriness. Other rapid depolarizing potentials occurring during the time course or at the end of a slow depolarization could have generated spike(s) but were followed by a rapid decay. Slow depolarizations were not observed during arousal or paradoxical sleep when the neurons tonically depolarized and displayed either rapid depolarizing potentials with a fast decay or repetitive firing and long high frequency bursts. In five of the studied neurons, decreases in frequency of the spontaneous rapid depolarizing potentials occurred during slow-wave sleep for 3-30 s oscillatory periods without any change in the behavioural state. During these periods all of the few remaining rapid depolarizing potentials arose from a flat baseline, had a higher amplitude and initiated a slow depolarization which always elicited a spike or burst of spikes after a brief delay. The slow-wave sleep rhythm decreased to 1-5/s. Simultaneously the baseline membrane potential hyperpolarized by a few millivolts and reached a level for reversal of inhibitory postsynaptic potentials. Imposed hyperpolarization of the membrane during wakefulness did not reveal any slow depolarization. But strong synaptic excitatory inputs and direct excitation (a break of the current pulse) from a hyperpolarized membrane did evoke the slow depolarization and eventually the fast spike(s) in both control and oscillatory neurons. A rhythm similar to that of slow-wave sleep was elicited during wakefulness by optic tract stimulation and was enhanced by membrane hyperpolarization. But under these conditions the rhythm was initiated by a phasic hyperpolarization and was composed of an alternating hyperpolarization-depolarization. Spontaneously and synaptically evoked rapid depolarizing potentials arising from baseline had a similar rising slope. The spontaneous ones initiated a slow depolarization leading to fast spike(s) during slow-wave sleep and could directly generate fast spike(s) during wakefulness.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Recent experiments have shown that hippocampal pyramidal cells can generate synchronized action potentials even when chemical synapses are blocked. The computer simulations reported here showed that communication between cells by extracellular currents could cause this synchrony, provided that (1) individual neurons were sufficiently excitable and that (2) the resistivity of the extracellular medium was sufficiently high. Synchronization was enhanced if electronic junctions were also present.
This study evaluated whether or not fetal substantia nigra tissue, grafted to striatum previously lesioned with 6-hydroxydopamine, provides functional dopaminergic reinnervation of striatum. Falck-Hillarp histochemistry and immunofluorescent staining for tyrosine hydroxylase demonstrated extensive networks of nerve fibers which extended 1-1.5 mm from the nigral grafts into striatal tissue. Multibarrel micropipettes were used to record neurons electrophysiologically and test neuronal responses to phencyclidine which was applied locally by pressure microejection. &quot;Distal&quot; neurons, defined as those striatal neurons more than 2.0 mm from the nigral graft, fired at an average spontaneous rate of 13.4 spikes/s and were relatively insensitive to the effects of locally applied phencyclidine. However, &quot;proximal&quot; neurons, defined as those neurons less than 1.0 mm from nigral grafts, fired at a significantly lower average rate of 4.9 spikes/s, and were significantly more sensitive than distal neurons to the effects of phencyclidine. These results suggest that fetal substantia nigra grafts can provide functionally significant reinnervation of striatum previously lesioned with 6-hydroxydopamine.
Neurosecretory PC12 cells differentiated in vitro by prolonged (at least 2 weeks) treatment with nerve growth factor were exposed to alpha-latrotoxin and studied by morphological and biochemical techniques. Cell monolayers or suspensions responded to the toxin with a prompt and massive release of neurotransmitter. The dose dependency (Km approximately 5 X 10(-10)M) and the maximum release effect (approximately 60% of the stored [3H]dopamine released within 8 min) were not appreciably different from the values found in non-differentiated PC12 cells. Moreover, the concentration dependency of the release was found to correspond closely to that of the [125I]alpha-latrotoxin binding to its specific sites (the alpha-latrotoxin receptors). The number of these receptors was over two-fold higher in differentiated than in undifferentiated cells. Since, however, differentiation implies a large increase in cell size and surface area, the receptor density (number/unit area) remained virtually unchanged. By radioautography the alpha-latrotoxin receptors were found to remain diffusely distributed at the entire surface of differentiated cells even when these were allowed to form synapses with myotubes. This situation is at variance with that demonstrated recently at the frog neuromuscular junction, where alpha-latrotoxin receptors are exclusively localized at the nerve terminal plasmalemma. Scanning and transmission electron microscopy revealed that the enlargements of neurites where dense granules are preferentially accumulated--the varicosities and terminals--underwent swelling and extensive disorganization within a few minutes after the application of alpha-latrotoxin, whereas the cell bodies and the tracts of neurites occupied primarily by microtubules were less severely affected. The greater sensitivity of varicosities and terminals with respect to the other parts of the differentiated cells, rather than the consequence of a specific addressing of the toxin to these structures, might be due to their vulnerability by toxin-induced events, such as the uncontrolled activation of ion fluxes.
We have visualized the dopaminergic innervation of the hippocampal formation of the rat using two morphological methods: (1) tyrosine hydroxylase immunocytochemistry on noradrenaline-depleted animals and (2) fluorescence histochemistry after the uptake and storage of dopamine on hippocampal slices in vitro. The noradrenergic hippocampal terminal fields were destroyed by neonatal neurotoxin pretreatment and the validity of the lesion checked by the absence of dopamine beta-hydroxylase immunoreactivity. As observed on early postnatal ages, dopaminergic axons reached the hippocampal formation through the fimbria and the alveus, but also through the supracallosal bundle and the ventral amygdaloid area-entorhinal cortex. The temporal (ventral and caudal) part of the hippocampal formation received the bulk of the dopaminergic innervation whereas no fibers were observed in the septal pole. Very few positive axons were visualized in the hilus of the gyrus dentatus and CA3 field, only near the temporal pole. CA1 field (stratum oriens) was innervated throughout its ventral part. The most innervated area was the ventral part--especially the deep layers--of the subiculum, in particular the prosubiculum. The dorsal part of the subiculum displayed some positive axons, although to a lesser extent. The pre- and parasubiculum contained a few positive axons. In addition, some immunoreactive axons were observed in the anterior hippocampal continuation and the indusium griseum. The ventral junction prosubiculum-CA1 field appears to be the main target area for the hippocampal dopaminergic innervation. It is interesting that the same areas are characterized by their projections to the nucleus accumbens which receives dopaminergic afferents. Thus, the hippocampostriatal projections, that represent a link between the limbic and central motor mechanisms, could be under dopaminergic influence.
Acetylcholinesterase occurs in the frog sciatic nerve under five stable molecular forms with distinct sedimentation coefficients in sucrose gradients: 3 globular forms (3.6S, 6S and 10.5S) and two asymmetric ones (14S and 18S). Whereas in birds and mammals, the asymmetric tailed forms of acetylcholinesterase are present in trace amounts in peripheral nerves and account for only a small part of the enzyme activity submitted to a rapid axonal transport, the two asymmetric 14S and 18S forms represent nearly 50% of total activity in the frog sciatic nerve and account for 60-70% of the acetylcholinesterase activity accumulated at both sides of a nerve transection, the rest being due to an accumulation of globular molecules. We showed that the three forms, 10.5S, 14S and 18S, are all carried with the fast phase of axonal transport at a velocity of 100-120 mm/day in the anterograde direction and 20-30 mm/day in the retrograde direction. The velocity of transport for the light molecular forms 3.6S and 6S could not be calculated. In addition, we observed that large amounts not only of the 10.5S but also of the asymmetric 14S and 18S forms appear to be stationary along the frog sciatic nerve, contrary to the situation described for peripheral nerves in birds or mammals. Our results thus reveal that some axonal transport parameters for the asymmetric forms of acetylcholinesterase greatly differ in the peripheral nerves of amphibians on the one hand and of birds and mammals on the other, suggesting that these heavy molecular forms might have distinct functions in the nerves of lower and higher vertebrates.
Three neuropeptides, enkephalin, dynorphin, and substance P appear in the globus pallidus in a unique pattern termed woolly fibers as described previously [Haber and Nauta (1983) Neuroscience 9, 245-260]. The comparative distribution of these fibers are described in the human globus pallidus and basal forebrain area. The results show two main points: The human globus pallidus is a larger, more intricately shaped structure than previously thought, invading several limbic-related basal forebrain regions. There are differences in the distribution patterns of the neuropeptides described, so that they are found in overlapping, but not matching regions. The relationship between the peptide distribution and what is known about the functional (limbic vs motor) circuitry of the region is discussed.

The term sociobiology, coined by Wilson to describe the concept that human behaviour has a biological basis rooted in the genes, has aroused considerable controversy. The present report not only Wilson's hypothesis but takes it even further by putting forward the hypothesis that every human personality trait and resultant behavioural pattern is brought about by certain protein molecules, coded by the genes which activate special closed brain neuron circuits. The term &quot;psychobiology&quot; is suggested for this hypothesis, and &quot;molecular personality code&quot; for the whole complex of molecules mentioned above.
Damage to the central and peripheral nervous system often produces lasting functional deficits. A major focus of neuroscience research has been to enhance functional restitution of the damaged nervous system and thereby produce recovery of behavioral or physiological processes. Promising procedures include surgical, physical, and chemical manipulations to reduce scar formation and minimize the disruption of support elements, administration of growth-stimulating substances, tissue grafts to bridge gaps in fiber pathways, and embryonic brain tissue grafts to provide new cells with the potential to generate fiber systems. Two elements are required for functional nervous system repair: (i) neurons with the capacity to extend processes must be present, and (ii) the regenerating neurites must find a continuous, unbroken pathway to appropriate targets through a supportive milieu.
The distribution of specific [3H]hemicholinium-3 ( [3H]HC-3) binding sites sites throughout the rat forebrain was studied by means of quantitative light microscopic autoradiography. Tissue sections were labeled with 2.5 nM [3H]HC-3, apposed to tritium-sensitive film for 2 months and analyzed by computer-assisted densitometry. Regions of intense [3H]HC-3 labeling include the caudate-putamen, nucleus accumbens, olfactory tubercle, amygdala, habenula and the granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus. Little or no specific binding was detected in the corpus callosum, a white matter region. This distribution of specific [3H]HC-3 binding sites is compatible with a selective labeling of central cholinergic nerve terminals.
Sigmund Freud, the acknowledged father of psychoanalysis, started his scientific career as a very promising neurohistologist. This report gives an overview of his early neuroanatomic articles and pioneering contributions to 19th-century neurologic science.
Use of the highly sensitive tetramethylbenzidine (TMB) method of horseradish peroxidase histochemistry for electron microscopy has been limited by the solubility of the reaction product in aqueous and alcoholic solutions. We have found that following the TMB reaction with a diaminobenzidine-cobalt (DAB-Co) step causes the TMB crystals to become coated with DAB-Co. The resultant reaction complex is insoluble, and easily localized using electron microscopy. By systematically varying the pH at which the TMB reaction is run, the size and shape of the reaction complex can be controlled. The pH 4.0 reaction complex was the most suitable for electron microscopic identification of labeled structures less than 1.0 micron in diameter (e.g., axon terminals).


A cobaltic lysine complex was injected separately into the right and left fasciculi retroflexes of the frog. This tracing technique labeled, in a Golgi-like manner, the neurons which initiate the fasciculi retroflexes and revealed details of their morphological pattern. The fasciculi retroflexes originate from various neurons distributed in the diencephalon and mesencephalon, but their main source is the habenular nuclei. In the frog there are dorsal and ventral habenulae which are homologous to the medial and lateral habenulae, respectively, of mammals. In the frog the dorsal habenulae are strikingly asymmetric. Our study shows that the fasciculus retroflexus is composed of several compact separated bundles of fibers and that the fibers originating from the dorsal habenular nuclei project to the interpeduncular nucleus, while those originating from the ventral habenular nuclei project beyond the interpeduncular nucleus, but so far we have not been able to show the exact site of their termination. The labeling of cells within the interpeduncular nucleus raises the possibility that the habenulo-interpeduncular tract is reciprocal in function. The finds support our previously reported hypothesis on the theoretical interpretation of the functional circuitry of the frog habenulo-interpeduncular system.
A computerized system is described which converts analog, high-gain intracellular records from alpha motoneurons to digital data which are displayed on a graphics terminal and stored on magnetic media. Spontaneously occurring synaptic potentials are automatically detected and a quantitative analysis of their waveform parameters is computer-generated.
Four computer programs written for the BBC Model B microcomputer (coupled to a Unilab 8-bit interface) are discussed. These programs enable the system to be used as (1) a transient recorder, (2) a rapid signal averager, (3) a spike-train analyser and (4) an instrument for measuring the amplitude of single channel currents. Flow-charts illustrating the operation of each program are given along with a detailed discussion of how the programs may be used in the laboratory. The discussion is illustrated using recordings taken from experiments conducted on a range of neurobiological preparations.
This report describes the techniques we have developed to record changes in intracellular calcium concentration which take place during action potentials in the cell body of rat dorsal root ganglion neurones in vitro. The photoprotein, aequorin, was microinjected into the cell body of individual sensory neurones and light output from Ca2+-activated aequorin molecules was recorded with a photomultiplier tube attached to a modified inverted microscope. Aspects of the technology outlined here include: cell culture methods; a flow chamber for electrophysiological experiments on cell culture preparations; modifications to our inverted microscope; use of 150 mM KCl-filled microelectrodes; and an electronic device for processing the photomultiplier output. Some preliminary results are presented.
Theodor Meynert's neuroanatomic studies contributed to the development of the nineteenth-century &quot;brain psychiatry&quot; movement. His speculations--that certain cognitive impairments resulted from an imbalance in blood flow between cortical and subcortical structures--parallel modern controversies concerning the role of these brain regions in the pathophysiology of dementia. Meynert described a subcortical nucleus in the basal forebrain, the nucleus basalis of Meynert, which has recently been shown to provide cholinergic innervation to the cortex. Loss of cells in this structure in Alzheimer's disease, a so-called &quot;cortical&quot; dementia, and in the dementia of Parkinson's disease, a so-called &quot;subcortical&quot; dementia, probably accounts for the loss of cortical cholinergic markers in these diseases. An understanding of Meynert's contributions may avoid unproductive speculation in attempts to study the interactions between cortical and subcortical structures in neuropsychiatric diseases.
Mice of CBA strain of both sex were injected with [3H]fucose at age 2, 6, 12 or 30 days and the incorporation was determined biochemically 45, 90 and 180 min later. Biochemical measurements of the whole brain (at 90 min postinjection interval) revealed a stepwise age decrease in the amount of incorporated isotope (per mg protein). The amount of [3H]fucose available in the brain has however been found to decrease with age while the degree of its utilization increases. Thus, after correction of the data on [3H]fucose incorporation for the pool of the free isotope, a transient increase in fucosylation rate appeared at postnatal day 12 while the differences among 2-, 6- and 30-day-old animals became negligible. Further, the synthesis of fucosylated soluble glycomacromolecules appeared relatively higher at postnatal day 2 than in older age groups. Examination of different brain regions revealed that the rate of fucosylation is relatively highest in the olfactory bulbs; this prevalence starts appearing with age and becomes most evident in 30-day-old mice. Autoradiography carried out with 6- and 12-day-old animals revealed that the incorporation of [3H]fucose into meningovascular apparatus and the choroid plexus is a few times higher than into brain parenchyma. The regional differences appeared to be similar to those indicated by the biochemical data. Cellular analysis has shown that the incorporation is relatively higher in the cytoplasm of large projecting neurons of the cerebellum, hippocampus and the olfactory bulbs; in the latter region high amounts of macromolecule-bound [3H]fucose also appeared in the synaptic glomeruli.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Differential pulse voltammetry used with electrochemically pretreated carbon fibre microelectrodes enables separation between the two peaks corresponding to the ascorbic acid and catechol oxidation currents. The effects of haloperidol and sulpiride on the 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid peak recorded in the nucleus accumbens and olfactory tubercle of rats were studied. Chloral hydrate anaesthetized preparations and chronic preparations were used. A microdevice was designed to implant electrodes in freely moving rats. Voltammograms were recorded every minute in each structure in acute preparations and every 2 min in chronic preparations. In acute preparations haloperidol induced a similar dose-dependent increase in the catechol oxidation peak in both structures. Sulpiride at all doses only induced an increase in the olfactory tubercle. In chronic preparations haloperidol and sulpiride had even larger effects on the 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid peak in both regions. In these preparations sulpiride induced a significant increase in nucleus accumbens. The effects induced by haloperidol in the two regions were greater than those induced by sulpiride. The main conclusions of this study are that the results of voltammetry agree with biochemical results on the effects of haloperidol and sulpiride on dopamine metabolism. An interaction of chloral hydrate with the effects of the two neuroleptics was also observed.
The distribution of labelled cells in the diencephalon and mesencephalon has been mapped following injections of horseradish peroxidase into nucleus paragigantocellularis lateralis in the cat. Most of the labelled cells were found ipsilateral to the injection site. A group of small and medium-sized labelled perikarya (11-40 microns in diameter) was present in the caudal part of the periaqueductal grey matter (A3-P2) and in the adjacent tegmentum. Small, round or fusiform cells (8-25 microns were labelled in the tuberal region of the hypothalamus in the dorsomedial hypothalamus and in the lateral hypothalamic area. It is suggested that the cardiovascular responses which can be elicited by stimulation in these regions of the periaqueductal grey and hypothalamus are mediated via a relay on to spinally projecting neurones in nucleus paragigantocellularis lateralis which synapse on sympathetic preganglionic neurones in the intermediolateral cell column.
With the six convulsants studied (Soman, intrahippocampal penicillin, bicuculline, pentylenetetrazol, picrotoxin and strychnine), the anatomical distribution of changes in local cerebral glucose utilization was related to the type of seizure observed. Strychnine induced a few very intense motor convulsions during the 2-deoxyglucose experimental period without having a major effect on brain local cerebral glucose utilization, in support of the view that its actions are predominantly in the spinal cord. Pentylenetetrazol and picrotoxin induced intermittent intense seizures and marked increases in local cerebral glucose utilization in the globus pallidus and substantia nigra. Soman, intrahippocampal penicillin and bicuculline all induced persistent status epilepticus associated with increases in local cerebral glucose utilization in many brain areas; those with striking increases in glucose use include: cortical areas, the limbic system, basal ganglia and substantia nigra. The glucose use changes produced by Soman, penicillin and bicuculline greatly exceeded those induced by pentylenetetrazol and picrotoxin. Activation of the substantia nigra and basal ganglia occurred with all centrally mediated convulsions and with status epilepticus there was also marked activation of cortical and limbic structures.
Linear sweep voltammograms recorded with carbon paste electrodes in the striatum of the unanaesthetised, unrestrained rat show three separate peaks. The effect on peak 3 of either unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of the substantia nigra or intraperitoneal administration of alpha-methyl-paratyrosine, supports our earlier conclusion that peak 3 is due to the dopamine metabolite homovanillic acid. Administration of gamma-butyrolactone, which inhibits firing of dopaminergic nigrostriatal neurones, produces an immediate decrease in striatal homovanillic acid, followed by a prolonged increase. Dopamine-receptor agonists and antagonists produce changes in the extracellular concentration of homovanillic acid which are predicted by their effects on dopamine release. Simultaneous monitoring of total motor activity and homovanillic acid show significant correlation between these two parameters. The usefulness of this technique for monitoring dopamine release is critically evaluated in the light of these results.
We have examined bovine adrenal chromaffin cells in culture for the presence of the microtubule-associated protein 2. Chromaffin cells could be identified in culture on the basis of their staining with antibodies directed against secretory granule proteins. Using immunoperoxidase staining microtubule-associated protein 2 immunoreactivity was demonstrated to be present in chromaffin cells but not fibroblasts in culture. Microtubule-associated protein 2 immunoreactivity was present in the cell body, processes and varicosities of the chromaffin cells. Microtubule-associated protein 2 polypeptides were shown to be present in an adrenal medullary homogenate but not chromaffin granule membranes by immunoblotting. The results indicate that the neuronal cytoskeletal polypeptide microtubule-associated protein 2 is present in adrenal chromaffin cells. The presence of microtubule-associated protein 2 in both neurons and chromaffin cells may be related to their common embryonic origin.
The distribution, ontogeny and fiber projections of cholecystokinin-8, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and gamma-aminobutyrate-containing neuronal systems in the rat spinal cord were investigated by means of immunocytochemistry. Immunoreactive fibers to cholecystokinin-8, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and glutamate decarboxylase (gamma-aminobutyrate-synthesizing enzyme, used as a marker of gamma-aminobutyrate) were widely distributed in the spinal cord, being particularly concentrated in the superficial dorsal horn, suggesting a close relationship to the pain transmission system. Cholecystokinin-8-containing neurons were mostly distributed in the dorsal laminae and glutamate decarboxylase-containing neurons were distributed in both the dorsal and ventral horns. Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-containing neurons were detected in the lateral spinal nucleus and the lamina X. Cholecystokinin-8 and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide immunoreactive structures first appeared on gestational day 17-18. Although no substantial change in immunoreactive structures was observed during the fetal period, they increased markedly after birth. On the other hand, glutamate decarboxylase-positive structures appeared at gestational day 16 and those in the grey matter reached a maximum content at birth; both groups were present in adult animals. Transection of the upper cervical cord resulted in accumulations of cholecystokinin-8 and glutamate decarboxylase rostral to the lesion, revealing the presence of supraspinal projections of cholecystokinin-8 and glutamate decarboxylase to the spinal cord. The same experimental procedure demonstrated the existence of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-mediating neuronal projections to the supraspinal level, as the accumulating fibers occurred in the area caudal to the lesion.
The distribution of calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactivity in the cardiovascular system of the rat was investigated by radioimmunoassay and immunocytochemistry. The nature of the immunoreactivity was studied by gel permeation and high performance liquid chromatography. Immunocytochemistry demonstrated the existence of calcitonin gene-related peptide-containing nerve fibres throughout the cardiovascular system. These were present in all regions of the heart, particularly in association with the coronary arteries, within the papillary muscles and within the sinoatrial and atrioventricular nodes. Calcitonin gene-related peptide-containing fibres were found mainly in the adventitia of the arteries and veins. Calcitonin gene-related peptide concentrations were high in major arteries and veins but comparatively low in the heart, aortic arch and thoracic aorta. Chromatography showed that approximately 70% of the total immunoreactivity was identical to synthetic calcitonin gene-related peptide. Calcitonin gene-related peptide concentrations in the blood vessels of rats treated neonatally with capsaicin were not found to be significantly different from those in control animals although capsaicin caused significant reductions of calcitonin gene-related peptide levels in certain other tissues. The results of this study suggest that calcitonin gene-related peptide-containing fibres are likely to be of importance in the innervation of vascular tissues and raise the possibility that these fibres are different in character from calcitonin gene-related peptide-containing fibres found in other tissues.
Horseradish peroxidase conjugates of either the lectin wheat germ agglutinin or choleragenoid, the binding subunit of cholera toxin, were injected into the L5 spinal ganglion of adult rats. This enabled comparison of these two conjugates as anterograde tracers in the primary sensory system. After a postoperative survival of 4 h to 30 days, the rats were perfused and frozen sections from spinal and medullary regions receiving primary afferents were processed for horseradish peroxidase histochemistry with tetramethylbenzidine as the chromogen. Additional observations were made in two adult cats. Following injection of wheat germ agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase the labelling appeared mostly as small-sized granules. The concentration of labelled primary afferents in the grey matter of the spinal cord was greatest in the marginal zone and the substantia gelatinosa and less pronounced in the deep parts of the dorsal horn. Labelling was also found in a region lateral to the central canal and in the ventral horn. Following injection of choleragenoid-horseradish peroxidase the labelling appeared mainly as larger-sized granular profiles. The concentration of labelled primary afferents was greatest in the deep part of the dorsal horn and pronounced in a region lateral to the central canal and in the ventral horn. All these regions are known to receive large calibre fibres. The marginal zone and the substantia gelatinosa, known to receive fine calibre fibres, showed almost no labelling in the rat. In the cat, however, there was somewhat more labelling in the substantia gelatinosa. Labelling of neuronal cell bodies indicating transneuronal transport was seen after injection of wheat germ agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase. Transneuronal labelling did not seem to occur after injection of choleragenoid-horseradish peroxidase. The present findings show that wheat germ agglutinin-and choleragenoid-horseradish peroxidase give rise to markedly different labelling patterns. A possible explanation for the different labelling in the marginal zone and substantia gelatinosa could be that certain primary sensory neurones lack either receptors for choleragenoid on their neuronal plasma membrane or the ability to transport the choleragenoid-horseradish peroxidase complex.
The seemingly unrelated stereotyped locomotor &quot;acts&quot; reported in the literature to be produced by apomorphine in rats are shown to be composites, whose form and sequence are determined by the particular values of a few component variables which form a common denominator in each of the behaviors. Three variables, continuous snout contact, forward progression and turning, account for much of the behavior. In the course of the drug's action these emerge in succession and vary in amount, the latter two successively reaching a peak and subsiding. The interaction between forward progression and turning yields in sequence, forward walking, circling, revolving, tight pivoting and finally side-to-side movements of the forequarters around the relatively stationary hindquarters. Later behaviors in this list are gradually incorporated into the sequence as earlier ones are eliminated. The course of change in forward progression and turning is also reflected in changes in the sequence and in the direction of stepping of each of the four legs. The order in which the behavior unfolds under the drug is opposite to that manifested in ontogeny and in recovery from lateral hypothalamic damage, suggesting that at the particular high dose used, apomorphine is acting not only to activate the behavior but also to shut it down.
Extracellular dopamine concentration has been monitored in the striatum of pargyline treated, anaesthetized rats using differential normal pulse voltammetry. The catechol oxidation current recorded with electrochemically treated carbon fiber electrodes disappeared when the dopaminergic terminals were selectively destroyed by 6-hydroxydopamine. Calibration of the basal oxidation current revealed that the extracellular dopamine concentration was 26 nM. Brief and moderate electrical stimulation of the nigrostriatal pathway at the level of the medial forebrain bundle induced a large increase in the dopamine current. The observed elevation in the dopamine signal lasted as long as the stimulation. It varied with the frequency (0-25 Hz) of the pulses in an exponential manner. Stimulation pulses distributed in a bursted pattern were twice as potent as an equivalent number of pulses regularly spaced. High frequency stimulations (50 Hz) were also investigated in anaesthetized rats (without pargyline) with untreated carbon fiber electrodes; they induced a very large increase in the dopamine extracellular concentration (up to 8-15 microM). Interruption of the dopaminergic impulse flow either by an electrolytic lesion or by a low dose of apomorphine (0.05 mg/kg) caused an immediate decrease of the dopamine current. The time courses and amplitudes (-70%) of these effects were identical. Subsequent injection of haloperidol (0.5 mg/kg) reversed the apomorphine effect up to +360% of the control basal value. Administration of dopaminergic antagonists such as haloperidol (0.05 and 0.5 mg/kg) or metoclopramide (2 mg/kg) significantly increased the dopamine current up to 317, 340 and 215% of the respective control values. Nomifensine (4 mg/kg) produced a big increase (+417%) of the extracellular dopamine levels. The effect of electrical stimulation of the dopaminergic pathway was potentiated by drugs such as amphetamine (2 mg/kg), nomifensine (4 mg/kg) or haloperidol (0.05 and 0.5 mg/kg) but was not altered by apomorphine (0.05 mg/kg). The study by in vivo voltammetry of the variations in the striatal extracellular dopamine concentrations shows that the release of dopamine is under the influence of both the frequency of impulse flow and of dopaminergic striatal autoreceptors.
Experiments were designed to examine the relative roles of noradrenaline and adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) as mediators of the contractile responses of the guinea-pig and the mouse vas deferens to electrical nerve stimulation. To study possible prejunctional actions of the agents used, in some experiments their effects on the secretion of [3H]noradrenaline were determined. The contractile responses were recorded with force displacement transducers. Pharmacological techniques were employed to examine the pre- and/or postjunctional effects mediated by noradrenaline and ATP, respectively. Noradrenaline-mediated components were &quot;removed&quot; by depleting the neuronal stores of noradrenaline (by pretreatment with reserpine), or by addition of adrenoceptor-blocking agents. ATP-mediated components were &quot;removed&quot; by desensitizing ATP receptors (with the stable analogue alpha, beta-methylene ATP). The results permit three major conclusions: (1) In both species noradrenaline and ATP &quot;auto-inhibit&quot; mechanisms responsible for transmitter secretion; the prejunctional effects of ATP are less marked in the mouse vas deferens, and in both species much weaker than those mediated by noradrenaline, acting via alpha 2-adrenoceptors. (2) In these species, both noradrenaline and ATP participate in the generation of both phases of the contractile responses to nerve stimulation. The relative roles of each vary with the frequency and train length of stimulation, and also with the species. The main transmitter of &quot;phase I&quot; contractions in guinea-pig vas deferens is ATP, and in the mouse vas deferens, noradrenaline. &quot;Phase II&quot; contractions are triggered mainly by noradrenaline, in both species. Sympathetic neuroeffector transmission in these tissues can be accounted for almost entirely in terms of dynamic interplay between pre- and postjunctional actions of noradrenaline and ATP. (3) The results are compatible with the hypothesis that ATP is a co-transmitter with noradrenaline in these sympathetic nerves.
The role of spinal pathways in the regulation of adrenal medullary tyrosine hydroxylase and catecholamines was studied in adult rats subjected to spinal cord transection at the third thoracic level. In these animals the sympathoadrenal preganglionic neurons were isolated from their supraspinal afferents. This treatment led after three days to a progressive reduction of tyrosine hydroxylase activity and dopamine content (as compared to unoperated controls) until at least the 10th day. The results of the administration of dexamethasone or adrenocorticotropic hormone to spinalized rats suggest that in these animals glucocorticoid hypersecretion is not involved in the decline of adrenal tyrosine hydroxylase and that in fact adrenocorticotropic hormone supplementation can prevent it. A neurogenic origin for the depression of adrenomedullary function is favoured because unilateral splanchnicotomy (which by itself does not affect adrenal tyrosine hydroxylase), prior to cord section, prevented the diminution of tyrosine hydroxylase activity in the denervated gland. The decline of adrenal tyrosine hydroxylase and dopamine after spinal section may result from a decrease of modulatory impulses to the adrenal from decentralized sympathoadrenal preganglionic neurons in the isolated cord, following the loss of a descending facilitation of these neurons and/or the release of a segmental interneuronal inhibition of these neurons from a descending inhibitory influence. Such descending pathways may decussate partially below the low cervical level because rats with hemisection of the cord at C6-C7 exhibited no decline of adrenal tyrosine hydroxylase or of dopamine measured on either side seven days postoperatively.
The effects of ammonium acetate or chloride, perfused through the lateral ventricle, were studied on the hippocampal formation of the rat. During perfusion with ammonia, the population spikes, evoked by stimuli delivered to the fimbria, were first increased and then reduced. On the other hand, the late positive wave gradually decreased throughout the application of ammonia. The inhibition, studied by the paired-pulse test, was found to be reduced when the population spike was transiently enhanced, indicating that disinhibition could be responsible for the enhancement of synaptically evoked responses. Neither antidromically evoked population spikes nor the typical effects of iontophoretically applied glutamate, aspartate or gamma-aminobutyrate were changed by ammonia. These findings can be accounted for by a single action of ammonia, a depression of excitatory synaptic transmission, the excitatory synapses on inhibitory interneurons being more readily depressed than those on the pyramidal cells. Both effects, early hyperexcitability and late depression, are probably due to a reduction in the release of the excitatory neurotransmitter, glutamate and/or aspartate. We tentatively suggest that these mechanisms are responsible for some of the symptoms observed during the development of hyperammonemic encephalopathies.
Effects of ammonia on excitatory synaptic transmission were studied in the rat hippocampal slice preparation. Population spikes, elicited by orthodromic or antidromic stimulation, were recorded in the cell body layer of the CA1, CA3 and dentate regions. Perfusion with 5 mM ammonium chloride induced a profound and reversible depression of orthodromically evoked population spikes in all three regions. Antidromic population spikes were not depressed in any of the regions, indicating that neither axonal conduction nor electrical excitability were affected by ammonia. The paired-pulse test revealed a transient disinhibition during the early phase of perfusion. Iontophoretic application of glutamate evoked unit firing even when the synaptically evoked responses were reduced by ammonia, indicating that the postsynaptic sensitivity to the putative transmitter was not depressed. Depression of release of the excitatory transmitter, probably because of depletion following the block of transmitter synthesis, is the likely explanation of these findings. It is suggested that ammonia-induced depression of excitatory transmission may account for coma and other symptoms of central nervous system depression encountered in hyperammonemic states.
Motoneurones of the frog spinal cord slice preparation were impaled with microelectrodes and superfused at 7 degrees C with the excitatory amino acids glutamate, quisqualate or N-methyl-D-aspartate. The role of Na+ in the action of these amino acids was studied by comparing amplitude matched depolarizations obtained in control Ringer solution with the responses recorded from the same cells after replacing (86-100%) Na+ by choline or glucosamine. Effective replacement of extracellular Na+ proved to be a rather slow process requiring 30-60 min. In glucosamine solution depolarizations evoked by glutamate, N-methyl-D-aspartate or quisqualate were abolished or strongly reduced with recovery following return to control Ringer. In choline solution, glutamate and N-methyl-D-aspartate effects were blocked whereas the quisqualate response was surprisingly unaffected. Mn2+ (2 mM) added to choline solution strongly diminished the action of quisqualate. These results suggest that Na+ was important in mediating amino acid responses and that quisqualate activated an additional conductance mechanism (perhaps to Ca2+) unmasked only in choline-containing solution.
Recent studies have implicated glutamate and substance P in synaptic transmission in the nuclei tractus solitarii and in central regulation of cardiorespiratory functions. Consequently, in chloralose-anaesthetized cats that were artificially ventilated, we examined the effects of the microiontophoretic application of both chemicals (and the substance P homologue, eledoisin-related peptide) on single neurones of the nuclei tractus solitarii implicated in the control of respiration and respiratory tract reflexes. These neurones were functionally identified as either respiratory neurones or presumed reflex interneurones, and showed functional properties comparable to those previously documented for each of these two types. The iontophoretic application of glutamate produced an excitation of rapid onset in 23 or 25 reflex interneurones tested, but the respiratory neurones showed a differential sensitivity: one type (n = 32) was &quot;glutamate-sensitive&quot; and showed rapid excitation with glutamate applications of less than 30 nA, the other type of respiratory neurone (n = 26) was termed &quot;glutamate-insensitive&quot; since it either showed excitation only with applications of 60 nA or more or showed no response even with currents up to 94 nA. Each neurone studied was clearly of one type or the other. Glutamate could increase the number of spikes per rhythmic burst and the burst duration of respiratory neurones, it facilitated evoked activity in the reflex interneurones and in those respiratory neurones having a superior laryngeal nerve or vagus nerve afferent input, and the magnitude of the excitatory responses to glutamate varied directly with the amount of ejecting current. Substance P and eledoisin-related peptide also had excitatory effects on respiratory neurones and reflex interneurones, but compared with glutamate-induced effects the excitation was slower in onset and more prolonged in after-discharge. Both rhythmic and evoked activity could be facilitated, and the magnitude of the effect varied directly with the magnitude of the ejecting current. In showing that both glutamate and substance P (and its analogue, eledoisin-related peptide) have excitatory effects on the activity of respiratory neurones and reflex interneurones, this study provides evidence suggesting that these neurones have receptors for these neural chemicals, supportive of a role for each chemical in the regulation of respiration and respiratory tract reflexes.
The distribution of substance P and leucine enkephalin in mid- and fore-brain areas of the rat was studied using a radioimmunocytochemical method. The secondary antibody was labeled with 125I and the sections apposed to LKB Ultrofilm or emulsion-dipped. In alternate sections an extensive distribution of substance P and enkephalin immunoreactive material was seen in frontal, cingulate, retrosplenial, and entorhinal cortices. Substance P and enkephalin exhibited a remarkable overlap in many of these cortical areas as well as in the nucleus accumbens, caudate, portions of the hypothalamus, amygdala, thalamus and central gray. Differences in distribution were seen in the retrosplenial cortex, septum, ventromedial hypothalamus, hippocampus, the substantia nigra and the superior colliculus. The results provide a detailed immunohistochemical demonstration of the laminar patterns of substance P and enkephalin in the cortex of the rat. The results are discussed in terms of the interaction of substance P and enkephalin. The matches and mismatches of immunoreactive substance P and enkephalin and the locations of their receptors are also examined.
Because of advances in the diagnosis and management of brain tumors, the opportunity for neurologists to participate in the care of children with central nervous system neoplasms has greatly increased. Data developed by various study groups has allowed a more systematic approach to childhood brain tumors. Much more information will become available. New data must be reviewed and recommendations for therapy made by individuals with clinical neuroscience experience and training. The training needs of such individuals must be met in neurology training programs.
Numerous publications devoted to the topic of transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) have appeared since the presentation of a special issue of Physical Therapy (December, 1978). This update article addresses contemporary information on efficacy, mode of application, treatment outcomes, and neurophysiological mechanisms relevant to this modality. Investigators have become far more specific when presenting this information in the current literature on treating acute pain conditions with TENS than they were in the literature for the 1978 special issue. Improvement has been made in providing specific details to enable replication of TENS stimulating characteristics among patients with chronic pain; yet several clinical researchers still fail to evaluate treatment outcomes adequately. Perhaps the greatest advances in our understanding of TENS involve the recent development of mechanisms that might account for how different types of TENS work. Suggestions for predicting patient responses to TENS and for avenues of future inquiry are offered.
Following iontophoretic application of the plant lectin Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin (PHA-L) to brain areas of rats, and subsequent immunohistochemistry, reaction product can be observed with the light microscope to fill neurons completely, including their somata, dendrites, dendritic appendages and axons. Moreover, axons often show profuse collateralization and indications of termination, including numerous en passant and terminal varicosities. The present report describes a protocol for combining light microscopic examination of PHA-L-stained neurons and electron microscopy of details of their processes, including the axonal varicosities. The results support the hypothesis that axonal varicosities are the light microscopic representations of synaptic axon terminals seen in electron microscopic preparations.


The rationale for studying sensory systems as an integral part of neurotoxicological examinations is presented. The role of evoked potentials in assessing brain dysfunction in general and sensory systems in particular is also presented. Four types of sensory evoked potentials (brainstem auditory evoked response, somatosensory evoked potentials, flash evoked potentials, and pattern reversal evoked potentials) are discussed in terms of their demonstrated contributions to neurotoxicology and clinical neurology. Research needed to allow these methods to achieve their full value for neurotoxicology is identified and briefly discussed.
A technique has been developed which allows extracellular recording from single neurons in the spinal cord of physiologically intact, awake, drug-free, restrained cats. The technique involves the surgical placement, under general anesthesia, of a stainless steel recording chamber which has a rectangular opening in its center that is 6 mm wide by 12 mm long. The recording chamber is attached to the vertebral column so that the opening is positioned over a similar opening that has been made in the bone of the vertebral column overlying the lumbar enlargement. Following a two week recovery period, the cats, which have been trained to accept restraint, are placed in a plexiglass restraining box, and a microdrive assembly is attached to the recording chamber. Tungsten microelectrodes (Frederick Haer &amp; Co.) are then advanced through the dura into the dorsal horn of the spinal cord while receptive fields are stimulated. The chamber, when properly positioned, provides access to neurons with receptive fields on both hindlimbs. The stability of the system makes it possible to maintain single cell recordings from neurons in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord in the presence of either experimenter-induced or spontaneous movement of hindlimbs, tail or back musculature or during and after intramuscular, intravenous, spinal and epidural drug injections. Of greatest importance is the fact that the animals remain healthy and normal throughout the period of neuronal recordings.
We describe a relatively inexpensive, yet versatile and powerful microcomputer-based image-analysis system, and its applications to processing of deoxyglucose autoradiographic data. Images are acquired via a video camera mounted on a light microscope or a light box, and digitized in 40 ms to 512 X 512 picture elements with 8-bit resolution (256 gray levels). The bit-mapped image analysis hardware can provide up to 256 colors for pseudo-color coding, and virtually instantaneous readout of brightness values for densitometry. The system is controlled by an 8-bit S-100 bus microcomputer, providing flexibility and ease of expansion. In addition to pseudo-color coding and densitometry, we have developed programs for averaging of successive sections, image subtraction and quantitative reconstruction of different planes of section from serial autoradiograms.
A technique is described for the construction and use of iontophoretic electrodes suitable for extracellular single-unit work in awake behaving monkeys. The technique combines a multi-barrelled pipette for iontophoresis and an insulated tungsten electrode that is employed routinely for chronic single-unit recordings. The pipette consists of up to 11 double filamented glass barrels concentrically arranged around a large diameter glass tube. The recording electrode is extruded through the central tube under microscopic control and glued in place. This technique allows separate optimization of the shape of the recording electrode for recording in the behaving monkey, and of the iontophoretic tips. An adapted micropositioner is used to accommodate the electrode's unusual length, required in order to allow access to deep brain structures and so that a guide tube can protect the trans-dural passage of the electrode tip.
A software system is described which has been used to identify, average, and otherwise analyse different kinds of electrophysiological events. Spontaneous miniature end-plate potentials were identified by assessing the fit of subintervals within suspected event-containing intervals to flexibly defined model subevents. It was thus practical to apply complex, explicit, and stable criteria in the estimation of the frequency and mean time course of these spontaneous events. This software also mediated the objective rejection of noise-contaminated elements from samples of either evoked or spontaneous potentials. Average event time courses were comprised of a series of estimates of the standard deviations as well as the means. Each analysis generated thousands of individual event amplitudes which were used to improve estimates of quantal release and response parameters. This software allowed more complete analysis of tape-recorded experiments which conserved test compounds and animals, and enabled the observation of simultaneous and equal degrees of action upon spontaneous and evoked potentials, which suggested that a common mechanism was involved.
These programs were written for the IBM personal computer equipped with a Tecmar Labmaster analog interface board. The software operates under the MS-DOS operating system; it is written in compiled BASIC and employs short machine-language subroutines for crucial functions. Details are presented on the analog interface routines which make special use of the 9513 counter/timer chip on the Labmaster. Time resolution is about 32 microseconds per sample on the PC and 15 microseconds on the PC/AT. One series of programs performs traditional voltage- and current-clamp experiments on macroscopic currents in whole cells. A second series interfaces with a hardware window discriminator to capture single-channel events in a recirculating buffer; a stimulus can be triggered to fire during an open channel. Off-line programs perform standard analyses, and further processing can be performed with standard spreadsheet programs.
Symptomatic cerebral vasospasm following subarachnoid hemorrhage from ruptured saccular aneurysms is a major factor in the neurologic deterioration of these patients. Many therapeutic interventions have been proposed to treat this cerebral vasospasm; however, the most effective means to counteract this development still eludes the health care team. Faced with this dilemma, recent investigators have examined subarachnoid blood as visualized on CT scan. These studies have enabled them to identify those patients most at risk for developing symptomatic cerebral vasospasm. Predicting the occurrence as well as the severity and location of symptomatic cerebral vasospasm will facilitate early implementation of preventative measures. This knowledge may help to minimize the frequent unfavorable outcomes following subarachnoid hemorrhage and the subsequent development of vasospasm. The neuroscience nurse can apply this information to the clinical setting by being able to identify those patients at high risk for developing symptomatic cerebral vasospasm, to improve assessment skills, and to plan and anticipate the patient's future needs. A case study is offered to illustrate how this is accomplished.
We have studied the cell-free and cellular synthesis of chromogranins A and B, two immunologically distinct protein families of adrenal chromaffin granules. Two cell-free systems (wheat germ and reticulocyte lysate) were used for translating messenger RNA isolated from bovine adrenal medulla. Two primary translation products could be immunoprecipitated in case of chromogranin A. In the presence of microsomes the two chromogranin A precursors (pre-chromogranins A) were converted into a single protein, apparently by the removal of different signal peptides. For chromogranin B only one precursor (pre-chromogranin B) was translated. In isolated chromaffin cells only one chromogranin A protein was synthesized which corresponded to the processed cell-free translation product. During prolonged incubation this protein became slightly larger and more acidic, probably due to glycosylation in the Golgi region. Chromogranin B is post-translationally converted to a significantly more acidic protein. It is concluded that proteolytic breakdown of newly synthesized chromogranin A and B in chromaffin granules is a slow process comparable to that of the enkephalin precursors. It is not yet known what function these chromogranins have and whether breakdown to smaller subunits is necessary for any function to evolve.
Presence and structure of gap junctions have been studied at the ultrastructural level in the central nervous system of the freshwater snail Lymnaea stagnalis. Gap junctions are clearly visible in thin sections of glutaraldehyde-fixed and phosphotungstic acid-stained material as well as in freeze-fracture preparations. Various types can be distinguished on the basis of junctional size and shape, and numerical density, diameter, spacing and arrangement of junctional particles. Junctions are present between neurones and between glial cells. The neuroendocrine ovulation-hormone-producing caudodorsal cells show gap junctions at four sites, viz. between somata, between axons in the &quot;loop area&quot; and in the intercerebral commissure and between neurohaemal axon terminals. These junctions show common characteristics as to numerical density, diameter, spacing and arrangement of junctional particles, but morphometry reveals different mean values for junctional size and numerical density. Values are the highest for axons in the loop area, intermediate for axons crossing the commissure, and the lowest for somata and axon terminals. It is proposed that the gap junctions particularly play a role in electrotonic intercellular coupling. The results strongly suggest that the gap junctions between the caudodorsal cells--especially those in the loop area and between the crossing axons--are the morphological correlates of the previously demonstrated electrotonic coupling between these cells. This coupling may enable all cells of the network to act synchronously so that a large amount of ovulation-hormone can be released within a short period of electrical activity (the discharge).
Binding sites for [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin were localized in the chick ciliary ganglion by light and electron microscopic autoradiography. Groups of four ganglia were incubated for 4 h with 20 nM [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin alone or with radioactive alpha-bungarotoxin plus either 1 microM unlabeled alpha-bungarotoxin or 100 microM d-tubocurarine. Specific binding to various morphological regions was determined by subtracting the densities of autoradiographic grains in the presence of competing nonradioactive ligands from the densities in the absence of those ligands. Most of the specific binding in the ganglion (91%) was associated with neurons. Seventy-four per cent was found within 1.2 micron of neuronal plasma membranes and 17% was found overlying neuronal cell bodies. Analysis of the specific binding associated with neurons, but not with the neuronal plasma membranes, revealed that lysosomes and multivesicular bodies were 9- and 32-fold more heavily labeled than other cellular organelles. The grain density over choroid cell bodies was significantly higher than that over ciliary neurons. Most (greater than 75%) of the autoradiographic grains within 0.25 micron of neuronal plasma membranes were found in &quot;complex&quot; contact regions of the membranes, which are characterized by extensive membrane evaginations. However, after correcting for the amount of plasma membrane present in the various regions of the membrane studied, alpha-bungarotoxin binding was found to be uniform. Few (less than 10%) of the specialized membranes between pre- and postsynaptic neurons were found in these &quot;complex&quot; contact regions suggesting that the bulk of alpha-bungarotoxin binding to neuronal membranes is located at some distance from the sites of transmitter release. The density of alpha-bungarotoxin binding sites in the neuronal plasma membrane was low (approximately 100-200 sites/micron 2 of neuronal membrane) compared to published values of the density of binding sites at the neuromuscular junction. Since alpha-bungarotoxin does not bind preferentially to specialized synaptic membranes, it seems unlikely that the binding sites for this toxin are the neuronal nicotinic receptors.
Retrograde tracing with horseradish peroxidase showed that motoneurons to two distinct muscles, the orbicularis oculis and quadratus labii superioris, are intermixed within the dorsolateral subnucleus of the cat facial nucleus. Intracellular electrodes were used to identify and fill the motoneurons of the dorsolateral subnucleus with horseradish peroxidase. Soma diameters averaged 55 micron. The average number of primary dendrites was 11.6. The area covered by the dendritic trees varied in shape according to the position of the soma within the subnucleus. Axon hillocks were seen arising in many orientations, bearing no apparent relation to subsequent axonal path, cell position within the nucleus or somatic geometry. Motoneurons to the two muscles appeared to be indistinguishable on the basis of morphology, even though they appear to be functionally independent. Their functional differences are not reflected in any measure of somadendritic shape studied here. Of further interest is the variability in shape associated with the neurons's position within the subnucleus. We conclude that many details of dendritic shape do not reflect specific physiological function.
In cats under allobarbitone anaesthesia, Ca2+-sensitive microelectrodes were inserted into the lumbosacral spinal neurons to measure intracellular free Ca2+ concentration [Ca]i. In 72 resting motoneurons, the global mean [Ca]i was 7.9 microM (SD +/- 25.9). In the 36 &quot;best&quot; cells (with resting and action potentials better than 60 mV), mean [Ca]i was 1.6 microM (SD +/- 1.64). Activation of motoneurons by antidromic or direct stimulation evoked mean increases in [Ca]i of about 90 nM when stimulating for 30 s at 10 Hz, and 170 nM at 20 Hz. The mean time to half-recovery was 23 s (SD +/- 14.5). Orthodromic stimulation consistently produced smaller increases in [Ca]i. Measurements in motor axons showed a comparable resting level of [Ca]i, but only minimal changes during stimulation, even at 100 Hz. Sensory axons (also recorded within the spinal cord) similarly failed to show any increase in [Ca]i during high frequency stimulation. In some interneurons, however, particularly large and rapid increases in [Ca]i could be evoked by dorsal root stimulation at 1-5 Hz. Unresponsive cells (presumably neuroglia), with a typically high and stable resting potential, had a variable [Ca]i giving a mean of 32 microM (SD +/- 63.0). A tentative theoretical analysis of the magnitude and time course of delta [Ca]i evoked in motoneurons by tetanic stimulation is consistent with remarkably slow apparent diffusion of intracellular Ca2+ (1/250 of rate of diffusion in water), such as might be expected in the presence of very efficient mechanisms of Ca2+ sequestration.
The patterns of distribution of frontotectal and nigrotectal fibers were studied with the anterograde horseradish peroxidase method in the cat. Direct serial-section comparisons were made between the afferent-fiber patterns and the compartmentalized arrangements of acetylcholinesterase staining within the intermediate and deep collicular layers. Many of the patches of high acetylcholinesterase activity in the intermediate gray layer proved to be zones in which labeled frontotectal and nigrotectal fibers converged. These acetylcholinesterase-rich patches may thus represent sites at which functional influences from the basal ganglia and frontal cortex are coordinated. In the deeper tiers of the intermediate gray layer and layers ventral to it, there were also zones of heightened and diminished acetylcholinesterase staining. Much of this histochemical patterning was reflected in the arrangement of fibers labeled by large rostromedial frontal injections, but these deeper tiers were not strongly labeled after more lateral frontal injections or after injections placed in the substantia nigra. The deeper parts of the acetylcholinesterase-positive gridwork in the superior colliculus are thus distinct from its upper tier of acetylcholinesterase-positive patches. We conclude that the compartmentalized patterning of dense acetylcholinesterase staining in the intermediate and deep collicular layers represents a mosaic architecture to which collicular afferent circuitry is tightly related. This gridwork may serve to set up functional domains within which different aspects of collicular processing are accommodated.
In order to compare the receptive field properties of cells in the striate area (visual area 1; V1), and the parastriate area (visual area 2; V2), we have recorded from 174 cells in V1 and 112 cells in V2 in five anaesthetized and paralysed baboons (Papio ursinus). The receptive fields were mapped to determine their type, size and position in the visual field, and the binocular interaction, if any. Moving and stationary optimally oriented bars were used to distinguish cells with single &quot;on&quot; or &quot;off&quot; subregions and those with more than one such subregion (S and A types) from those with overlapping &quot;on&quot; or &quot;off&quot; subregion (C and B types). The A types had larger receptive fields than S types and C types had larger receptive fields than B types, but as receptive fields increase in size with eccentricity in V1 and even more rapidly in V2, the distinction between large and small receptive fields has to be defined for the different ranges of eccentricity. In V1 there are more cells with non-oriented receptive fields than in V2. In V1 S cells are found in all cortical layers except layer 5. C cells are absent from layer 4C, but predominate in layer 5. There is a preference for horizontal and vertical orientations in S cells only. The transition in cell properties from V1 to V2 occurs in two stages. There is a strip extending from the V1-V2 border for up to 6 mm containing the representation of the visual field from -2 degrees ipsilateral to +2 degrees (contralateral) azimuth in which the cell type distribution resembles that of V1 more than that of V2. By contrast, in V2 from 2 to 10 degrees there are very few S cells, many more C cells and over three times as many cells driven only by binocular stimulation, as compared to V1.
Three groups of rats received unilateral injections of ibotenic acid, 6-hydroxydopamine or vehicle control into the lateral hypothalamic area, and were given a range of tests of sensorimotor capacity. As expected from previous reports, the 6-hydroxydopamine injections induced a marked sensorimotor impairment to the contralateral side of the body. By contrast, the ibotenic acid injections produced no detectable sensorimotor changes, although the parameters and histological extent of the lesion were identical to those which produce aphagia, adipsia and sustained regulatory impairments when administered bilaterally. These results dissociate the classic electrolytic lesion of the lateral hypothalamus into homeostatic impairments following damage to intrinsic hypothalamic neurones, and sensorimotor impairments dependent only on damage to passing catecholamine fibre systems.
The distribution of visinin, a 24,000 dalton peptide, in the lower brain stem of the rat was examined by means of an indirect immunofluorescent method. Visinin-immunoreactive structures were found to be unevenly distributed only in the neuronal elements. The following neuronal systems were strongly labeled by the antiserum; the Purkinje cell system, mammillotegmental system, habenulointerpeduncular system, the second layer of the superior colliculus, ventral tegmental area, substantia nigra pars lateralis, area medial to the medial geniculate body, parabrachial area, dorsal and ventral nuclei of the lateral lemniscus, pontine reticular formation just medial to the trigeminal principal nucleus, superior olivary nucleus, solitarii nucleus, external layer of the inferior colliculus and spinal trigeminal nucleus. The densities of the labeled fibers in these areas paralleled those of the labeled cells. In addition, highly dense visinin-immunoreactive fiber plexuses were seen in the zona compacta of the substantia nigra, lateral portion of the interpeduncular nucleus, ventral tegmental nucleus of Gudden and vestibular nucleus.
Immunocytochemistry, radioimmunological assay after surgical cuts, anterograde degeneration and retrograde tracing of fluorescent dyes were used in order to elucidate the cholecystokinin-containing afferents to the ventral striatum (nucleus accumbens, olfactory tubercle and ventral part of the caudate-putamen). In agreement with the report by Hkfelt et al., midbrain cholecystokinin-containing cells supply the posteromedial parts of the nucleus accumbens and olfactory tubercle, as well as the subcommissural part of caudate-putamen. Brainstem cholecystokinin afferents also reach more rostral parts of the ventral striatum including the rostrolateral olfactory tubercle. The ascending cholecystokinin axons enter the medial forebrain bundle at the meso-diencephalic border and maintain a rough medial to lateral topography at the caudal diencephalon. A second major cholecystokinin pathway, with possible origin in the piriform and medial prefrontal cortices and/or the amygdala, projects to the subcommissural caudate-putamen, the olfactory tubercle, the lateral part of the nucleus accumbens and the dorsal part of the bed nucleus of stria terminalis. Finally, the rostral part of the dorsal caudate-putamen receives a substantial cholecystokinin innervation from the basolateral amygdala and possibly from the neocortex. According to radioimmunological data, the descending telencephalic cholecystokinin system accounts for about 60% of all cholecystokinin in the rostral forebrain. The combined use of morphological and biochemical methods provided evidence for a partially overlapping distribution and possible interaction between an ascending brainstem and descending telencephalic cholecystokinin fiber systems within the striatum and related rostral forebrain areas.
Activity of the neurons with stable theta-bursts was recorded extracellularly in intact and hippocampectomized septum of unanesthetized chronic rabbits during low-frequency (3-17 Hz) stimulation of horizontal limb of diagonal band or lateral septal nucleus. The stimulation rarely evoked standard oligosynaptic single-spike responses in stable theta-bursting units. Instead, gradual entrainment and phase-locking of the spontaneous theta-cycles occurred. Two types of entrainment were observed: &quot;entrainment by the pause&quot;, where interburst interval was reset by the stimuli; and &quot;entrainment by the burst&quot;, where bursts were time-locked to the stimuli. Such reorganization of the spontaneous bursts occurred in the narrow frequency range of stimulation (from 4 Hz up to 9-12 Hz), with the best resonance following in the range of &quot;basic&quot; theta frequencies of the awake rabbit (5-6 Hz). With stimulation beyond the theta-range three phenomena occurred: shift of the burst frequencies to higher or lower harmonics of stimulation frequencies; complex interactions of basic background frequency with rhythm of stimulation (&quot;beating&quot;); return to background theta-burst frequency in spite of continuing stimulation (&quot;escape&quot;). The properties of the septal theta-bursting cells as presumable intrinsic bursting pacemakers are discussed.
The central nervous system expresses its function in natural frames of reference. A most conspicuous feature of such frames is their non-orthogonality. Gaze stabilization and, in particular, the sensorimotor transformations performed by the vestibulo-ocular reflex, are prime examples of such general coordinate transformations between and within multidimensional non-orthogonal frames. Since such operations can be described by tensor formalisms in an abstract manner, this methodology is applied here to develop a tensorial computer model of gaze stabilization. The representation of sensorimotor transformations by a reference-frame independent method obviates the necessity to simplify the intrinsic coordinate systems either by a reduction of the dimensionality or by a presumption of orthogonality. The frames of reference intrinsic to vestibulo-ocular reflex transformation (the vestibular semicircular canals and extraocular muscles) as well as the covariant character of the sensory input and the contravariant character of the motor output are physically obvious. A model built on these intrinsic systems of coordinates first serves to quantitate the degree of non-orthogonality in the extraocular muscle system, and thus to demonstrate both the necessity and the applicability of representing them by a formalism suitable for non-orthogonal systems, such as tensor network theory. The actual non-orthogonality of the gaze-stabilization system can be quantitated on the basis of the difference of covariant and contravariant expressions as follows. Tensor network theory describes sensorimotor transformations by employing a covariant embedding procedure. This, however, yields a covariant intention-type motor vector. If the central nervous system were to transmit these sensory-type components directly to the extraocular muscle motor mechanism, an error-angle would occur since covariants do not physically compose the intended movement. The error in every direction of gaze would be zero only if the extraocular muscle system would constitute an orthogonal set of rotation axes. Otherwise, the error, called refraction angle, is a measure of non-orthogonality. The complexity of the quantitation of non-orthogonality is compounded by the fact that these rotation axes change with the moving eye. Calculation of eye movements, executed both by covariant and contravariant vectors from primary and secondary eye positions, is based on the simplest assumption that the central nervous system establishes the covariant-contravariant transformation in the retinal tangent plane.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Vipoxin, a 13,000-dalton polypeptide component of Russell's viper venom, has a dual pattern of effects on the responses of voltage-clamped Aplysia neurons to acetylcholine and biogenic amines. Application of low doses of vipoxin by pressure ejection reversibly antagonized all three types of ionic response to acetylcholine and carbachol. The blockade by vipoxin of acetylcholine responses was not prevented by eserine. The order of susceptibility of acetylcholine responses to blockade by vipoxin was Na+ greater than K+ greater than Cl-. Low doses of vipoxin also produced a reversible potentiation of excitatory responses to dopamine with a slower time course of onset and recovery. Inhibitory responses to dopamine (Cl-, K+) and both excitatory and inhibitory responses to histamine and 5-hydroxytryptamine were little affected by vipoxin. Higher doses of vipoxin directly evoked current responses which were always of the same ionic type as that evoked by acetylcholine or carbachol. Responses to cholinergic agonists and vipoxin were both blocked by cholinergic antagonists but not by antagonists of biogenic amine receptors, which reversibly antagonized the responses to amines on the same cell. These results suggest that vipoxin, which has no demonstrated actions on vertebrate acetylcholine receptors, acts as a partial agonist at all three types of acetylcholine receptor in Aplysia neurons. Our observations thus provide evidence for some degree of phylogenetic difference between vertebrate and molluscan acetylcholine receptors.
The ionic mechanism of postsynaptic inhibition in frog spinal motoneurones was studied with conventional and with ion-sensitive microelectrodes. In these neurones the inhibitory postsynaptic potential was depolarizing, its reversal potential being 15 mV less negative than the resting membrane potential. During the inhibitory postsynaptic potential the input resistance of the motoneurones was reduced to 20% of the resting value, indicating a strong increase of membrane conductance. The Cl- equilibrium potential calculated from intra- and extracellular Cl- activity measurements coincided with the reversal potential of the inhibitory postsynaptic potential to within a few millivolts. During repetitive inhibitory postsynaptic activity the intracellular Cl- activity decreased markedly, while the extracellular Cl- activity increased slightly. These changes of intra- and extracellular Cl- activities were no longer found after suppression of the inhibitory postsynaptic potential by strychnine. Blockade of an active, inward-going Cl- transport system in motoneurones by NH+4 led to a shift of the Cl- equilibrium potential and the reversal potential of the inhibitory postsynaptic potential towards the resting membrane potential. After prolonged action of NH+4, the Cl- equilibrium potential approached the membrane potential to within 5 mV, while the reversal potential of the inhibitory postsynaptic potential and resting membrane potential coincided. The difference between Cl- equilibrium potential and membrane potential after blockade of the Cl- pump is traced back to interfering intracellular ions, such as HCO-3 or SO42-, leading to an overestimation of intracellular Cl- activity and to the calculation of an erroneous Cl- equilibrium potential. Inhibitory amino acids like gamma-aminobutyrate or beta-alanine evoked depolarizations with reversal potentials similar to that of the inhibitory postsynaptic potential. These depolarizations were associated with a marked decrease of neuronal input resistance during inhibition. During the actions of these compounds a decrease of intracellular and a small increase of extracellular Cl- activity were found. The activities of other ions (K+, Ca2+ and Na+) did not change significantly, with the exception of extracellular K+ activity, which was slightly increased. Evidence is presented that the inhibitory postsynaptic potential, as well as the depolarizing action of inhibitory amino acids in motoneurones, is the result of an increase in membrane Cl- permeability and an efflux of Cl- from these cells, while other ions do not seem to be involved.
Baclofen appears to be an agonist for the bicuculline-insensitive gamma-aminobutyrateB receptors associated with C fibre terminals in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord. We have tested the effect of baclofen (applied intrathecally onto the spinal cord) on the A and C fibre-evoked responses of convergent/multireceptive neurones in the halothane-anaesthetized rat. L-Baclofen produced a dose-dependent inhibition of the C fibre- and pinch-evoked activity of these neurones which persisted for 2 h whilst the A fibre and tactile activities were little changed. The C fibre-evoked (X 3 threshold) responses were markedly or completely inhibited 10 min after doses of between 0.25 and 30 micrograms of L-baclofen (n = 21) with 0.05 micrograms causing a 48% (n = 3) and 0.01 micrograms a 28% inhibition (n = 3). D-Baclofen (30 micrograms), the inactive isomer, produced no significant changes in activity (n = 10). Bicuculline (60 micrograms) applied intrathecally before (n = 7) or after (n = 8) L-baclofen did not reverse the inhibitions. Intravenous baclofen (1-3 mg/kg) also produced neuronal inhibitions similar to the effects of intrathecal injection. The results suggest that gamma-aminobutyrateB receptors may exert a presynaptic control of C fibre afferents in the dorsal horn following intrathecal administration in the rat.
Blocking activity with intraocular tetrodotoxin prevents the sharpening of the retinotectal map formed during regeneration of the optic nerve. If (under normal conditions) the initially diffuse map sharpens because of correlated activity in neighboring but not distant ganglion cells, then sharpening should also be prevented merely by disrupting the spatiotemporal correlation in the pattern of activity. To test this idea, fish were exposed during regeneration to stroboscopic illumination in a featureless environment, or were maintained in complete darkness. The regenerating cells remained visually responsive after axotomy, and the xenon strobe effectively drove each ganglion cell at a constant latency. The maps formed in the strobe-reared fish were normally oriented, but the multiunit receptive fields were greatly enlarged, averaging 32 degrees. In control regenerates, multiunit receptive fields averaged only 11-12 degrees, nearly the same as for single units. Dark rearing, which allows only spontaneous activity, also resulted in enlarged multiunit receptive fields, averaging more than 28 degrees. Both effects parallel those reported previously with tetrodotoxin block. The mature projection did not become diffuse as a result of the strobe rearing, and the sensitive period corresponded to the early stage of synaptogenesis (20-34 days). Periods of normal visual exposure after 35 days produced very little sharpening of the diffuse maps produced during either strobe or dark rearing. The results are attributed to an activity-dependent stabilization of developing synapses. The correlated firing of neighboring ganglion cells could allow postsynaptic summation of their responses, and the retention of those more effective, retinotopically placed synapses might then occur via a Hebbian mechanism.
Caudate neurons were recorded with intracellular electrodes in halothane anaesthetized cats during microiontophoretic application of drugs and simultaneous stimulation of the corticocaudate pathway. Application of 2-amino-7-phosphonoheptanoic acid inhibited excitations induced by the N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptor agonists N-methyl-D-aspartic acid and quinolinic acid, but not those elicited by quisqualic acid or activation of the cortico-caudate pathway. Selective inhibition of N-methyl-D-aspartic acid induced excitations was also found in vitro in the frog hemisected spinal cord preparation where a pA2-value of 5.5 against N-methyl-D-aspartic acid was determined. The endogenous tryptophan metabolite, kynurenic acid, antagonized excitations induced by N-methyl-D-aspartic, quisqualic, L-glutamic and kainic acid as well as the excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) evoked in caudate cells by stimulation of the corticocaudate pathway, while action potentials elicited by an intracellularly applied depolarizing current were only slightly affected. In vitro experiments with the frog hemisected spinal cord preparation suggested that kynurenic acid might be a competitive antagonist of both N-methyl-D-aspartate and quisqualate receptors, with pA2-values of about 4.8 and 4.0, respectively. From these results it is concluded that the three-receptor concept for excitatory amino acids are proposed by Watkins and colleagues is probably applicable to the cat caudate nucleus and that the cortically evoked monosynaptic EPSP is mediated by a non-N-methyl-D-aspartate quisqualate- or kainate-receptor.
Intestinal secretion was evoked in periarterially denervated jejunal segments of anesthetized rats and cats by exposing the intestines to the heat stable (ST) toxins from a strain of Escherichia coli producing both STa and STb toxins. The secretion was significantly inhibited and to about the same relative extent by the addition of each one of the three following drugs: hexamethonium (i.v., rats), lidocaine (applied on the serosal surface, rats) and tetrodotoxin (intra-arterial, cats). Atropine inhibited fluid secretion in some experiments. It is proposed that a nervous mechanism is mediating part of the secretory response to Escherichia coli heat stable toxins, since three different drugs, which influence nervous activity in different ways, significantly diminished the secretory response. A model for the secretory nervous reflex(es) within the enteric nervous system is proposed; Escherichia coli heat stable toxins activate a &quot;receptor cell&quot; in the epithelium, which then stimulates surrounding dendritic nerve endings via the release of unknown substance(s). A nicotinic receptor is involved but further characteristics of the nervous reflex(es) remain to be elucidated.
Intracellular recordings were made from neurones in myenteric ganglia of the guinea-pig ileum in vitro. Synaptic potentials were evoked by electrically stimulating presynaptic fibres as they entered the ganglion, using a small focal electrode. Slow synaptic depolarizations (excitatory postsynaptic potentials) were evoked in most myenteric neurones of both types. A single stimulus was more likely to evoke a slow excitatory postsynaptic potential in cells with nicotinic synaptic input (S cells; 50%) than in cells with long-lasting after-hyperpolarizations following the soma action potential (AH cells; 20%). Two pulses often evoked a slow excitatory postsynaptic potential in AH cells when one pulse was ineffective. The optimally effective time between the pulses was about 100 ms. Ten pulses resulted in slow excitatory postsynaptic potentials even when delivered at frequencies as low as 0.5 Hz. For the same frequency of presynaptic stimulation, the duration of the slow excitatory postsynaptic potential was greater in AH cells than in S cells and the amplitude of the slow excitatory postsynaptic potential was slightly greater in S than AH cells. Spontaneous depolarizations were observed which had time-courses and amplitudes similar to the evoked slow excitatory postsynaptic potential. They were not blocked by tetrodotoxin or atropine. The calcium-dependent after-hyperpolarization which follows one or more action potentials in AH cells was reduced or even abolished during the slow excitatory postsynaptic potential. Presynaptic nerve stimulation at intensities lower than those required to cause a slow excitatory postsynaptic potential caused a reduction in the calcium dependent after-hyperpolarization. It is concluded that the slow excitatory postsynaptic potential is generated by an intracellular intermediate process which is sensitive to the intracellular calcium concentration. The results suggest that the postsynaptic action of the synaptic transmitter is to interfere with the intracellular process which couples the entry of calcium to the increase in potassium conductance.
Individual hypothalamic nuclei were removed from 17-day-old rat embryos with 300 microns punches and maintained in suspension culture. Suspension culture of isolated nuclei appears to be suitable for studying morphological and functional differentiation of neural tissue and release of bioactivity influencing corticotropin and growth hormone release. During the 4 weeks in culture, neurons and glial cells differentiated well in each nucleus studied. The fine structure of the arcuate, periventricular, ventromedial and dorsomedial nuclei resembled that of the adult nuclei with many mature synapses; in contrast, in the neuropil of cultured preoptic, paraventricular and posterior hypothalamic nuclei mature synapses were very few or absent. The release of substances influencing corticotropin and growth hormone secretion by the cultured nuclei was tested in bioassays using anterior pituitary cell cultures and radioimmunoassay of hormones released into the medium. Corticotropin-releasing bioactivity was tested at weekly intervals. Cultured preoptic and paraventricular nuclei released corticotropin-releasing activity for up to 4 weeks whereas arcuate nuclei released corticotropin-releasing activity at 1 week only. The ventromedial and dorsomedial nuclei did not release corticotropin-releasing activity. The release of substances influencing growth hormone secretion was studied between 3 and 11 days in culture. After 3 days the medium of some hypothalamic nuclei stimulated growth hormone secretion, but after 7 and 11 days all cultured nuclei strongly inhibited it. The present findings demonstrate that hypothalamic nuclei can be cultured separately and suggest that neurons capable of releasing corticotropin-releasing activity(ies) are present in the preoptic and paraventricular nuclei of the rat whereas all hypothalamic nuclei studied contain intrinsic neurons capable of synthesizing and secreting somatostatin-like bioactivity.

Mixed cultures of astrocytes and oligodendrocytes derived from cerebral hemispheres of 18-19 day old rat fetuses were studied with the freeze-fracture technique. The plasma membranes of cultured astrocytes and oligodendrocytes differ substantially in their intramembrane particle profiles, and they can be positively identified consistently. Orthogonal small particle assemblies and numerous isolated globular particles characterize astrocytic plasma membranes, whereas the plasma membranes of oligodendrocytes show numerous elongated particles and fewer large and small globular particles similar to those seen in situ. Using these distinct differential features, we can identify partners of glial cell junctions. We can identify numerous interastrocytic gap junctions, as well as heterologous astrocyte-to-oligodendrocyte gap junctions. The plasma membranes of adjacent oligodendrocytes form numerous tight junctions consisting of linear P face strands and/or rows of particles interrupted by short segments of grooves, the complementary features on the E face. &quot;Reflexive&quot; type tight junctions seen in situ are also observed. In addition to intercellular junctions, glial cells develop special plasma membrane structural domains. Astrocytic plasma membranes often contain groups of plasmalemmal vesicles (caveolae), a distinctive feature of astrocytes in situ. Oligodendrocytes form flattened velate processes with cytoplasm restricted to finger-like channels resembling myelin lamellae in situ. Cultured astrocytes and oligodendrocytes develop the entire range of plasma membrane structural specializations seen in situ in the absence of the normal brain tissue framework. Thus, primary glial cell cultures allow experimental study of many glial cell properties, including their plasma membrane specializations.
The effect and mode of action of substance P was studied in a perfused stomach preparation and on isolated strip preparations of the stomach wall from the rainbow trout, Salmo gairdneri. Substance P was excitatory on the stomach muscle wall in a dose-dependent manner. Two other tachykinins, physalaemin and eledoisin, excited the preparations in a similar manner and in the same dose range. The effect of substance P was not antagonized by the substance P analogues [D-Pro2, D-Phe7, D-Trp9]substance P and [D-Pro2, D-Trp7,9]substance P (both 10(-5) M). Tetrodotoxin reduced or abolished the effect of substance P, while no reduction of the response was obtained after atropine, chlorisondamine or phentolamine (all 10(-6) M). 5-Hydroxytryptamine excited the stomach and this effect was not antagonized by tetrodotoxin, suggesting that the action of 5-hydroxytryptamine was direct on the smooth muscle. The 5-hydroxytryptamine antagonist methysergide, in a concentration which selectively blocked the response to 5-hydroxytryptamine, also blocked the response to substance P (10(-9)-10(-8) M). The outflow of 5-[3H]hydroxytryptamine from a preloaded perfused stomach was clearly increased by substance P, and this release was blocked by tetrodotoxin. Immunohistochemistry revealed the presence of nerve fibres and ganglion cells showing 5-hydroxytryptamine-like immunoreactivity in the myenteric plexus and smooth muscle layers of the stomach wall. The immunoreactive cells and nerve fibres were particularly abundant in the pyloric part of the stomach. It is concluded that the main effect of substance P on the stomach wall of the rainbow trout is indirect, via activation of a non-adrenergic, non-cholinergic neuron. The results are compatible with the view that this neuron exerts its action by release of 5-hydroxytryptamine. Supramaximal concentrations (greater than or equal to 10(-7) M) of substance P may in addition have a direct effect on the gastric smooth muscle.
Antisera produced in rabbits against pure fractions of cholinergic vesicles from Narcine brasiliensis were used to study cholinergic organelles in rat motor neurons. The indirect immunofluorescence method was used on perfusion-fixed material. The rats were surgically sympathectomized to remove sympathetic adrenergic and cholinergic nerves from the sciatic nerve. In the intact animal immunoreactive material, likely to represent cholinergic vesicles, was observed in motor endplates, identified by labelling with rhodamine-conjugated alpha-bungarotoxin or with subsequent acetylcholinesterase staining. The motor perikarya contained very little immunoreactive material. Non-terminal axons were virtually devoid of immunofluorescence in the intact animal. After crushing the sciatic nerve, immunoreactive material (likely to represent axonal cholinergic organelles) accumulated rapidly on both sides of the crush, indicating a rapid bidirectional transport. The transport was sensitive to local application of mitotic inhibitors. The axons which accumulated immunoreactive organelles were motor axons, as demonstrated by various procedures: Cutting of ventral roots prevented accumulation of immunoreactive material in the nerve. Deafferentation did not notably influence accumulations of immunoreactive material. Ligated axons with immunoreactive material were acetylcholinesterase positive when identification was made on the same section; the intra-axonal distribution of immunoreactive material and acetylcholinesterase was not identical, however, and the Narcine antisera did not cross-react with bovine acetylcholinesterase in a solid phase immunoassay. Most axons in ventral roots, but not in dorsal roots, accumulated strongly fluorescent immunoreactive material, while axons in dorsal roots contained weakly fluorescent material. On the other hand, substance P-like immune reactivity was present in many dorsal root axons, but only very rarely in ventral roots. It is suggested that the antisera against Narcine cholinergic vesicles can be used as a marker for cholinergic organelles in the motor neuron, and may be an important tool for studying the axonal cholinergic vesicles. It cannot, however, be used to identify cholinergic structures in unknown locations because it recognizes common antigenic determinants in transmitter organelles of other nerves, e.g. adrenergic nerves. The axonal cholinergic organelles may carry important molecules, other than acetylcholine to the nerve endings.
Immunofluorescence histochemistry was used to determine the distribution of substance P, somatostatin and cholecystokinin-octapeptide-immunoreactive perikarya in C6, T6, T10, L2 and S1 dorsal root ganglia of rat. Five different categories of immunoreactive primary afferent neurons were distinguished on the basis of cell size, cytology and peptide immunoreactivities. The population of small cells (diameter less than 20 microns) included three groups which were identified as containing somatostatin, substance P, or substance P + cholecystokinin-octapeptide. Two groups of cells were identified in an intermediate size range (diameter 21-43 microns) as containing cholecystokinin-octapeptide or cholecystokinin-octapeptide + substance P. These categories may reflect four distinct populations of primary afferent neurons. The relative abundance of dorsal root ganglion cells containing substance P, cholecystokinin-octapeptide or somatostatin immunoreactivities was significantly different within segmental levels. More neurons were immunoreactive for cholecystokinin-octapeptide than substance P in ganglia C6, T6 and T10. Somatostatin-containing cells were fewest in number regardless of level. The number of immunoreactive cells also varied among spinal ganglia. L2 contained the greatest number of immunoreactive cells; S1 contained the fewest. These studies are relevant to our understanding of dorsal root ganglia in two ways. Firstly, the data document significant variation in the distribution of peptide-containing neurons among spinal ganglia associated with various cord levels. The variation in peptide-containing cell populations among spinal ganglia may reflect differences in populations of modality-specific primary afferent fibers as well as in populations of somatic and visceral primary afferent fibers at each level. Furthermore, the data indicate that the relative abundance of a population of peptide-containing primary afferent neurons cannot be extrapolated from the examination of spinal ganglia from a single level. Secondly, substance P and cholecystokinin-octapeptide did not co-exist in all spinal ganglion cells as previously reported. In conjunction with immunostaining characteristics and cell size, the differential distribution of the two peptides defined four cell types, raising the possibility that each cell type may mediate a different modality.
Ways in which chemical techniques could be applied to the understanding of neural systems, their functioning and their disorders were devised only gradually during the present century. In a particularly successful procedure, now termed assay-guided isolation, neural defects were made good by means of tissue-extracts and the restoration of function was established as an assay-system to guide the chemical separation and identification of the active tissue constituent. Thiamin was so isolated, using an experimental polyneuritis assay; subsequent instances among other metabolites, hormones, neurotransmitters and nerve growth factors are recounted. Procedures of assay-guided characterization ensured that links were retained between specific, sparsely-occurring substances and chosen aspects of their biological roles while their chemical nature was first explored and then established. The procedures discouraged the too-facile postulating of hypothetical molecules and contributed to the distinctiveness of neurochemistry as a subject within the neurosciences.
Known quantities of test objects approximating the parameters of cortical synapses were embedded in known volumes of a transparent embedding medium. The material was cut in slabs of appropriate thickness. The mean trace length (d) of the profiles of the test objects was measured and the number of profiles per unit area (NA) was calculated. Various stereological formulae were applied to these data to determine the number of test objects per unit volume (NV). For large numbers of those test objects most closely approximating the parameters of cortical synapses, the formula NV = NA/d and the DeHoff and Rhines formula ('61) for polydispersed circular disks NV = 8NAZ/ pi 2 (where Z is the mean of the reciprocals of the trace lengths) gave accurate results (error less than or equal to 5%). Other popular formulae and procedures were not as accurate and underestimated their number by as much as 32%.
Stimulation of muscular thin-fiber afferents of cats causes two types of respiratory suppression: one is stimulus-locked suppression which is not affected by naloxone, and the other is naloxone-reversible respiratory suppression after cessation of the stimulation. Both types of respiratory suppression could still be evoked after decerebration of cats at the midcollicular level. The present experiment revealed that muscular thin-fiber afferents, presumably polymodal receptor afferents, caused respiratory inhibition mediated through an opiate system in the brain structure below the caudal part of the brain stem.
A procedure is described yielding computed images of postmortem brains with high topographic accuracy. Structures of the brain are traced and registered by means of a digitizer capable of measuring coordinates three-dimensionally. The information corresponding to one brain model is stored on a flexible disk with a capacity of 256 Kbytes. According to the output desired, the resulting brain images are either completely or partially displayed on the computer screen as stereo pairs. The brain models possess a local fidelity of about 1 mm. The images are useful in simultaneously studying superficial and central parts of the brain, spatial relationships of the various structures and the projection of deep structures onto the surface of the brain. A RAM of about 100 Kbytes is necessary for a program enabling the user to perform stereo projections, three-dimensional transformations and other image manipulations. The special features of anatomical computer imaging as compared to computed tomography (CT) and nuclear magnetic resonance imaging (NMR) are outlined. A combination of these different techniques seems to improve clinical diagnosis.
The paper describes a device for testing contact placing in the cat which allows to control, with relatively high accuracy, the duration of tactile stimulation, its strength and the reaction time of contact placing. The apparatus can be used for testing contact placing in different experimental situations.



Relations between a peptide, hormone or neurotransmitter and behavior involve a molecule and a frequently complex process. The psychobiologist suggest the need for caution against extensive, operative and pharmacologic use of the notion of behavior. Multifactorial organization of adaptive behavior lends itself poorly to a reductionism leading to the equation molecule-behavior; however, neuropeptides do modulate behavior, sometimes potently. These subjects are discussed from a methodologic and critical point of view. Neurobiologists and endocrinologists have too often neglected the organizational and controlling roles of behavior on global neurobiologic and neuroendocrine reactions. Several examples are given to illustrate these various propositions.

The preceding discussion documents the diverse ways in which monoclonal antibodies have contributed to neuroscience research. They provide highly specific reagents to membrane-associated proteins, such as pumps, channels, receptors, and cell-adhesion molecules, that are useful for purifying these proteins, studying their structures at high resolution, and mapping their distributions. In many cases, the specific reagents were obtained using only partially purified antigens. Monoclonal antibodies to cytoskeletal proteins, organelles, and protein kinases have revealed that specific molecules are concentrated in anatomically distinct regions of the cell. A protein kinase has been shown to be a major postsynaptic constituent in many synapses. Individual proteins, such as actin, tubulin, and calmodulin appear to have different antigenic epitopes shielded in different parts of the cell. Monoclonal antibodies have provided a diversity of cell-type-specific reagents in both vertebrate and invertebrate nervous systems. They seem likely to be useful in identifying functionally related subpopulations of neurons and describing neural cell lineages. They will also serve to identify molecules that are important in regulating cell migration in the cerebellum, in marking cell position in the retina, and directing axon growth. This review also documents many purposes for which monoclonal antibodies are poorly suited or must be used with caution: A monoclonal antibody to a protein does not always reveal every place where that molecule is located. Pre- or post-translational microheterogeneity can expose different epitopes on the protein, such as may occur on the Na+-channel. Other proteins within the cell may shield antigenic sites on proteins such as calmodulin. Monoclonal antibodies can bind to epitopes on unrelated molecules (Nigg et al 1982, Lane &amp; Koprowski 1982). This is revealed in some cases as multiple bands on immunoblots. Some cross-reactivity, however, may have a functional basis. For example, structural homology is clearly the basis for the antigenic epitopes that are shared among the five classes of intermediate filaments (Pruss et al 1981). The epitope that appears to be shared between the muscarinic and alpha 1-adrenergic receptors may be conserved because the two receptors modulate common effectors. The cross-reactivity between these receptors was only recognized because very specific and sensitive assays exist for each. It is quite possible that these same antibodies also bind sites on many other types of receptors. Mapping the distribution of this epitope may therefore have little relationship to the actual distribution of the muscarinic receptor.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)



The close links between Thought and the brain having been amply demonstrated by the neurosciences, it is now time to draw conclusions. After having shown that the specific characteristic of thought is the self, the author underlines the impossibility of explaining the self by objective study and the consequent need to preserve for the thought its specificity in relation to Matter-Energy. After having excluded, by this statement, attitudes tending to deny explicitly or implicitly the specificity of Thought and having rejected spiritualist hypotheses as not conforming to scientific data, only two possible interpretations remain: that of the identity of Thought and Matter-Energy treats Thought as the other face of Energy, that of creation makes it necessary to admit a transformation from Energy to Thought (E = KP). The problems of thermodynamics and of the quantification of Thought thus raised are considered. Whatever the solution, it is necessary to admit that a &quot;Universal Thought&quot; exists. The universe is conscious of itself. The effort of cerebralisation in the evolution of species seems a mean of giving autonomy to individual thought which is necessarily included in Universal Thought.




This report pertains to the psychiatric problems in renal transplant recipients and its socio-demographic correlations.50 male recipient subjects with a post-transplant period ranging from six months to six years were evaluated through tape recorded interviews to study their pre and post-operative emotional reactions. A psychiatric examination was performed by two psychiatrists and a diagnosis given wherever necessary. On examination 46% of cases had identifiable psychiatric problems, mainly Anxiety Neurosis (18%), Depressive Neurosis (18%), Adjustment Reactions (10%). Non-organic (Psychogenic) pain, excessive somatic concern and personality changes were also noticed in some. The psychiatric illness was significantly more amongst unmarried (P &lt; .05) and higher education group (P &lt; .02). Other variables had no significant correlation with the psychiatric illness. None had psychoses or a major depressive disorder. Thus, psychiatric problems are present in particular groups of transplant recipients and are usually neurotic in nature and would require psychiatric help regarding these.
We report here the development in the chick embryo retina of binding sites for [(3)H]muscimol, a potent agonist of GABA receptors. In vivo studies were carried out with isolated neural retinas from different stages of development. High-affinity binding sites were absent before embryonic day (E) 8, but increased conspicuously between E10 and E16. Scatchard analysis indicated that this rise was due to an increase in the number of binding sites. Kinetic parameters of the embryonic binding sites were consistent with those typically found for mature muscimol receptors. Measurements of the low-affinity binding site showed a relatively similar developmental pattern although a pronounced decrease in binding to the low-affinity site was observed between E12 and E14. In vitro studies were carried out using glial-free, purified monolayers of retinal neurons, starting at E8. Cultured retinal neurons showed a developmental pattern for high-affinity muscimol binding sites resembling that observed in ovo. These binding sites were susceptible to regulation by cyclic AMP analogues. Increases of 100 to 200% in muscimol binding could be induced by a 24 hr treatment with dibutyryl cyclic AMP, 8-bromo cyclic AMP, or the phosphodiesterase inhibitor IBMX. Scatchard analysis showed that this increase was due to a change in receptor affinity. No effects were found with either butyric acid or with adenosine 5'-monophosphate. These results raise the possibility that cyclic AMP may be involved in the regulation of components of the GABA system.
The development of adrenergic (indicated by catecholamine fluorescence), acetylcholine-sterase-positive (possibly cholinergic), non-adrenergic, non-cholinergic (indicated by quinacrine fluorescence) nerves and small intensely fluorescent (SIF) cells in the rabbit urinary bladder was examined in foetal (from 23 days of gestation), newborn and adult animals. Acetylcholinesterase-positive nerve fibres and ganglion cells and quinacrine-positive ganglion cells were both present on day 23 of gestation, while quinacrine-positive varicose nerve fibres were first seen on day 24. At foetal age 26 days, 25-38 ganglia containing quinacrine-positive cells were seen in whole-mount preparations of detrusor muscle of the bladder. Each ganglion contained 30-40 quinacrine-positive cells (diameter 20-40 m). In contrast, only 5-12 ganglia contained acetylcholinesterase-positive nerve cell bodies at the same foetal age with only 3-20 cells in each ganglion; these figures remained at about the same level from foetal age 23 days to maturity. No catecholamine-containing nerve cell bodies were seen at any foetal age or in the adult. Adrenergic nerve fibres were not detected until day 28 of gestation, although small intensely fluorescent cells were first observed on day 26 of gestation. In the adult bladder there was a reduction of approximately 25-35% in the number of quinacrine-positive nerve cell bodies within the ganglia when compared with the ganglia in 1-day-old bladders and an increase in nerve fibre density of about 50% when compared with bladders of earlier ages. A reduction of approximately 90% in small intensely fluorescent cells and a 2-fold increase of adrenergic nerves was also characteristic of the adult bladder, although no changes were observed in the density of the acetylcholinesterase-positive cell bodies and nerve fibres. It is concluded that catecholamine-containing, acetylcholinesterase-positive and non-adrenergic, non-cholinergic nerves follow very different developmental patterns in the bladder.


A convenient extracellular method is reported for recording from autonomic ganglia as small as the chick ciliary ganglion. This technique allows recording of both the compound action potentials arising from synaptic transmission through the ganglion and ganglion depolarizations due to such agents as carbachol or potassium. A perfusion system is also described that allows rapid introduction and removal of pharmacological agents. The principal advantages of the technique are two-fold: (1) the method is simple and should work for any small ganglion as long as recordings can be made from the postganglionic nerve using a suction electrode; (2) the rapid introduction and removal of agonists allows frequent measurements of ganglionic depolarization with little receptor desensitization.
A program, written in the language Pascal, is described for signal averaging with a microcomputer. The program instructs the computer to acquire data from two channels on-line. For up to 3 channels of extracellular or intracellular recording analysed simultaneously, it was found not to be necessary to employ machine code or an assembler to provide adequate temporal resolution.

The measurement of motor activity in animals is central to the description of animal behavior in general. A wide variety of measurement procedures have been used in the past and various researchers have suggested that multiple measures or &quot;behavioral profiles&quot; be used to describe the effects of various types of experimental manipulations. However, many of the measures used have been found to be unreliable. The principle of aggregation, which states that the sum of a set of multiple measurements is a more stable and representative estimator than any single measurement, allows for construction of variables which are more reliable and have greater generalizability. Examples are provided which show that the application of aggregation can substantially increase correlations within variables over time as well as between variables. Application of factor analytic procedures to multivariate motor activity data is suggested to be a useful method of reducing many variables into fewer, more complex variables, which have greater phenomenon realism. Examples of the application of such factor analytic approaches are provided, both for the traditional two-way factor analytic methods as well as a more recent procedure (PARAFAC model) developed for analysis of three-way longitudinal data sets. It is suggested that multivariate analytic procedures are appropriate for data reduction and description in the area of behavioral neuroscience.
General locomotor activity is assessed in many ways ranging from observer ratings to sophisticated computer-assisted electronic monitoring with the aim of determining the unconditioned and conditioned effects of various pharmacological compounds. A system was constructed utilizing 6 independent test chambers each equipped with 14 infrared emitters and detectors arranged in two tiers and controlled by a microcomputer. The effects of the stimulant, d-amphetamine and its antagonism by the tranquilizer, pimozide, on unconditioned and conditioned activity as assessed using this system were found to be almost identical to results obtained using observer rating techniques. Other data showed that activity assessed by the system was subject to habituation and that this learning interacted with the effects of some drugs. Activity as measured by the system showed dose and time effects of various stimulants assessed over a 6 hr test period. Finally, the breakdown of activity into counts on the upper and lower tier of beams resulted in the finding that these two components of behavior were differentially affected by stimulants. These results demonstrate the validity and reliability of automated systems for assessing locomotor activity and show their promise for gaining further insight into the elements of behavior that are affected by various drugs.
Motor asymmetries in locomotion were studied in rats with unilateral neocortical removals in order to illustrate the utility of direct observation of behavior. Rats with unilateral cortical removals showed different postural asymmetries on simple tests that appear superficially similar and the observed motor asymmetries were differentially affected by postoperative recovery time as well as age at surgery. It is recognized that automated recording devices may be useful for measuring some brain-behavior relations but it is argued that automated recording cannot replace direct observation.
Subcellular distribution of 2?,3?-cyclic nucleotide-3?-phosphodiesterase (CNPase) in desheathed, saline perfused cat sciatic nerve is reported. CNPase specific activity was enriched in the total particulate (P(2)) fraction and was low in the soluble (S(2)) fraction. &quot;Light-myelin&quot; floating above the 0.60 M sucrose phase had the highest CNPase activity, 2.5-fold over the crude homogenate (CH). By contrast, enzyme activity in &quot;heavy myelin&quot; floating above the 0.85 M sucrose interface was equal to that of the CH and accounted for only 12% of total activity. CNPase activity in the membranes floating above the 0.25 and 0.60 and 0.85 M sucrose phases comprised nearly 70% of the total CNPase activity. The &quot;light myelin&quot; fraction floating above the 0.60 M sucrose accounted for approx. 51% of the total CNPase activity. SDS-PAGE of membranes individually harvested from above the 0.25 and 0.60 and 0.85 M sucrose phases revealed the presence of myelin-specific proteins (P(0), P(1); and P(2)). Electron microscope examination demonstrated the presence of myelin in each membrane fraction. The results of this study show that the majority of CNPase activity is associated with &quot;light myelin&quot; in cat peripheral nerve.
We have identified and partially purified interstitial retinol-binding protein (IRBP) from the subretinal space of the rat. It appeared to be glycosylated. Its apparent mol. wt was 270,000 by gel-filtration and 144,000 by sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Rat IRBP cross-reacted with anti-bovine IRBP sheep and rabbit sera, bound all-trans-[15-(3)H] retinol and was bound by concanavalin A. IRBP was not detected in the cytosols of the neural retina or retinal pigment epithelium and choroid. This distribution was confirmed by immunocytochemistry using a fluorescence-labeled second antibody. Immunospecific fluorescence was most intense in the interphotoreceptor matrix in a 6.5 ?m band adjacent to the retinal pigment epithelium. It was less intense over the remainder of the rod outer segment layer and was comparatively faint over the inner segment region. Its occurrence in the interstitial space between the photoreceptors and retinal pigment epithelium coupled with the fact it bound all-trans-[15-(3)H] retinol supports the concept that it may be implicated in the transport of retinoids between the retina and the retinal pigment epithelium during the visual cycle. When incubated with [(3)H]leucine or [(3)H]glucosamine, isolated retinas (but not retinal pigment epithelium and choroid) secreted labeled IRBP into the medium. This suggests that the retina plays a role in regulating the amount of IRBP in the subretinal space.




A distinctive population of neurons survives for longer than 3 months in cell cultures of chick or rat spinal cord. These neurons form a minor proportion (1%) of the neurons initially developing in the cultures, but are the only ones to survive longer than 30 days in vitro. In addition to their longevity, they share important morphological and cytoskeletal characteristics, which render them distinctive as a group even in early cultures which contain numerous other neurons of short-term viability. Each long-surviving neuron projects one neurite of great length relative to its other neurites, or to those of the shorter-lived neurons, and the length of this neurite is maintained constant for many weeks in vitro. This well-defined morphological feature may indicate the lineage(s) of these neurons. Structurally these cells are very different to the shorter-lived neurons. They are rich in neurofilaments and contain very few microtubules, whereas the shorter-lived neurons contain few neurofilaments but many microtubules. These differences in cytoskeleton coincide exactly with the distinction between limited and prolonged survival in vitro, and the possibility is considered that cytoskeletal stability in the presence of numerous small inflows of calcium might underlie &quot;hardiness&quot; in vitro. The state of development of the long-lived neurons is considered in the context of their shared features, and it is suggested that they may provide a model in which the regulation of development of neuronal function can be analysed.
Isolated rabbit hearts were perfused according to a modified Langendorff method for 1 h (unstimulated hearts). In different hearts, release of dopamine beta-hydroxylase activity into the transmyocardial fluid draining the interstitium was evoked by electrical field stimulation for six periods of 1 min at 30 min intervals (stimulated hearts). The hearts were then homogenized and fractionated into 100,000 g supernatant and sedimented at 4 degrees C. In homogenates from unstimulated hearts, the soluble dopamine beta-hydroxylase (determined in the supernatant) accounted for 17% of the total dopamine beta-hydroxylase (determined in the homogenate). In stimulated hearts the soluble fraction of dopamine beta-hydroxylase was reduced by 65%. The dopamine beta-hydroxylase released into the transmyocardial fluid by electrical stimulation, expressed as fraction of the total activity, corresponded well to the loss of enzyme from the supernatant demonstrating that the soluble dopamine beta-hydroxylase determined from the supernatant represents the releasable pool. Gadolinium ions (Gd3+) added to the homogenization medium of unstimulated hearts reduced the soluble fraction of dopamine beta-hydroxylase up to 63%, with the maximum effect at 200 microM. Similarly, when neurohypophyses were homogenized and spun at 0-4 degrees C, the fraction of vasopressin in the soluble phase was about 50% of the total. Gd3+ reduced this fraction by maximally 60%, an effect which was accompanied by an increase of vasopressin in the sedimentable fraction. When cytochalasin B (10 microM) was present during the homogenization of the hearts the soluble fraction of dopamine beta-hydroxylase was reduced to the same extent as in the presence of Gd3+. However, cytochalasin B had no effect on the distribution of vasopressin in the soluble and sedimentable fractions of homogenates of neurohypophyses. Gallopamil, when present during the homogenization of the hearts at a maximum effective concentration of 1 microM, reduced the soluble fraction of dopamine beta-hydroxylase by only 40%. However, the electrically evoked noradrenaline release from perfused hearts was completely blocked at 100-300 microM gallopamil. When neurohypophyses were homogenized and fractionated at room temperature only 13% of the total vasopressin was found in the soluble fraction and Gd3+ did not further reduce this fraction. When unstimulated hearts were homogenized and fractionated at room temperature the fraction of soluble dopamine beta-hydroxylase was reduced by 40% compared to the experiments at 0-4 degrees C.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Neurons dissociated from the septal area of fetal rat brains were grown in culture. Cholinergic neurons were identified by immunocytochemical visualization of choline acetyltransferase and cytochemical demonstration of acetyl cholinesterase. Choline acetyltransferase immunocytochemistry stained cell bodies and proximal processes while acetylcholinesterase cytochemistry visualized the entire neuron. Choline acetyltransferase-positive neurons could only be identified in cultures grown under conditions that produced the maximal choline acetyltransferase activity, measured biochemically. All of the choline acetyltransferase-positive neurons were double stained for acetylcholinesterase while only 6% of the acetylcholinesterase-positive cells were choline acetyltransferase negative in these cultures. These results indicate that acetylcholinesterase is a reliable marker for cholinergic cells in cultures of dissociated septal neurons. Being the more sensitive method, acetylcholinesterase staining was therefore used to identify cholinergic cells in cultures with choline acetyltransferase levels insufficient for immunocytochemical visualization of this enzyme. Addition of nerve growth factor or antibodies to nerve growth factor to the medium did not affect the number of cholinergic neurons surviving in culture. Furthermore, nerve growth factor and anti-nerve growth factor failed to influence the general morphological appearance and the number of processes of these neurons. However, nerve growth factor elevated the biochemically measured activity of choline acetyltransferase up to two-fold. The nerve growth factor-mediated increase in choline acetyltransferase activity was dose dependent with an ED50 of 10 ng/ml (4 X 10(-10) M). The increase was highly specific for nerve growth factor. It was blocked by anti-nerve growth factor, and epidermal growth factor, insulin and other control proteins failed to exert a similar effect. Nerve growth factor had to be present for at least 3 days in the culture medium to increase choline acetyltransferase activity, suggesting that the increase was due to an elevated choline acetyltransferase synthesis rather than to an activation of the enzyme.
Bicuculline methiodide (0.5-3 nmol) and picrotoxin (0.5-4 nmol) were injected uni- or bilaterally into the rat amygdala and the resulting behavioural, electroencephalographic and morphological alterations were studied. In rats treated unilaterally with lowest doses of either bicuculline or picrotoxin (0.5 and 1 nmol) increase in the locomotor activity, occasional myoclonus of the hindlimbs and wet dog shakes were observed. At doses of 2-3 nmol, both gamma-aminobutyrate antagonists produced a sequence of repetitively occurring behavioural alterations including limbic gustatory automatisms, tremor and myoclonus of the forelimbs, head nodding and rearing, that developed over 15-30 min and built up progressively into the recurrent motor limbic seizures lasting for 1-6 h. In animals injected bilaterally with either bicuculline (0.5-3 nmol) or picrotoxin (0.5-3 nmol) motor limbic seizures rapidly developed into the status epilepticus lasting for several hours. Bicuculline and picrotoxin produced both ictal and interictal epileptiform activity in the electroencephalogram. A spectrum of electroencephalographic changes consisted of high voltage fast activity, slow and fast voltage spiking, paraoxysmal bursts and periods of postictal depression. The earliest electrographic alterations appeared in the amygdala and then rapidly spread to cortical areas. Electrographic seizures started 1-10 min after unilateral injections of large doses of bicuculline and pictrotoxin (2-4 nmol). Ictal periods lasted for 1-2 min, recurred every 5-10 min and were followed by periods of depression of the electrographic activity. Bilateral injections of large doses of both gamma-aminobutyrate antagonists (2-3 nmol) resulted in the status epilepticus. Morphological examination of frontal forebrain sections with light microscopy revealed a widespread damage to the amygdala, olfactory cortex, substantia nigra, thalamus, hippocampus and neocortex. Pretreatment of animals with diazepam prevented the build-up of convulsive activity and brain damage produced by bicuculline or picrotoxin. Muscimol retarded the appearance and shortened the duration of convulsive activity, but did not alter the sequence and intensity of seizures. The results indicate that gamma-aminobutyrate antagonists, bicuculline and picrotoxin when directly applied to the amygdala can elicit in rats motor limbic seizures, epileptic changes in the electroencephalogram indicative of repetitive limbic seizures, and status epilepticus accompanied by seizure-related brain damage.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Polyclonal monospecific antibodies raised in sheep against rat testis calmodulin demonstrated cross-reactivity with bovine adrenal medullary chromaffin cell calmodulin. This antibody immunoprecipitated a [35S]methionine-labelled protein from chromaffin cell extracts prepared from [35S]methionine prelabelled cells that comigrated on a sodium dodecylsulfate gel electrophoresis system with calmodulin. In addition, an excess of non-radioactive exogenous calmodulin was shown to readily compete with this labelled endogenous protein for the antibodies' binding sites. Erythrocyte ghosts were used as vehicles for microinjecting either preimmune immunoglobulin G or anti-calmodulin immunoglobulin G into chromaffin cells following a polyethylene glycol-induced cell fusion procedure. The efficiency of ghost cell fusion was monitored and found to be 43.6 +/- 1% (n = 33). Cell morbidity subsequent to fusion and microinjection was negligible (87.8 +/- 0.6% of the total cell population were viable cells; n = 33) as determined by the Trypan Blue exclusion test. The delivery of intact antibodies raised against calmodulin directly into the cytoplasm of cultured chromaffin cells by erythrocyte ghost-mediated microinjection, inhibited catecholamine output in response to stimulation by either acetylcholine (10(-4) M) or a depolarizing concentration of potassium (56 mM). However, under these conditions, the chromaffin cell's ability to accumulate exogenous catecholamines through a high affinity uptake system, as well as the kinetic parameters that characterize this uptake mechanism remained unaltered. Furthermore, microinjection of preimmune immunoglobulin G did not modify either catecholamine uptake or stimulation-induced amine release from chromaffin cells. It therefore appears that calmodulin may play a role in the process of stimulus-secretion coupling in the chromaffin cell in culture while it is of little significance to the high affinity amine uptake mechanism.
The developmental sequence of nerve-epithelial cell contacts, leading up to the formation of the mature receptoneuronal synapse, has been studied in the basilar papilla of chick embryos with electron microscopy. The receptor epithelium before innervation, on embryonic days 3-4, consists of a homogeneous population of primitive cells; hair cells and supporting cells cannot be distinguished. During innervation of the epithelium (embryonic days 5-7), the invading peripheral fibers of cochlear ganglion cells penetrate the basal lamina and form nerve-epithelial attachments with the epithelial cell bases. Once within the epithelium some fibers turn and spread in the transverse dimension across the basilar papilla through channels formed between the basal epithelial processes. Subsequently, nerve-epithelial attachments are observed more superficially within the epithelium. Hair cells and supporting cells differentiate during early synaptogenesis (embryonic days 8-9). Receptoneural synapses, possibly derived from the nerve-epithelial attachments formed during the innervation stage, are first seen during this period. They are characterized by symmetrical or asymmetrical membrane densities, separated by a cleft containing a dense material. At many of these junctions synaptic bodies, as well as dense-cored and coated vesicles, gather in the hair cells. During mid-synaptogenesis (embryonic days 11-13) the hair cells proliferate synaptic bodies, many of which are not located at receptoneural junctions. The preterminal portions of the sensory endings form large swellings, containing flocculent material, endoplasmic reticulum and vesicles. Late in synaptogenesis (embryonic days 15-17) the swellings disappear, while synaptic endings are transformed to foot-shaped terminals. In the hair cells, synaptic bodies not associated with junctions disappear. Efferent synapses are first seen during this period. This sequence of ultrastructural changes, which the developing sensory nerve endings and their target cells undergo in parallel, can be correlated with observations of Golgi preparations from a companion study. These correlations suggest that the innervation of the cochlea involves the following developmental processes. Initially the peripheral fibers of the ganglion cells grow directly toward the otocyst in fascicles. Having reached the base of the primitive receptor epithelium, the axonal endings, including some with growth cones, encounter a barrier in the basal lamina. When they enter some of the fibers attach to the basal end-feet of the primitive epithelial cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The sequence of developmental events leading to the innervation of the cochlea and the differentiation of its receptor cells has been studied in chick embryos with Golgi methods. We describe the morphogenesis of cochlear ganglion cell peripheral processes from their appearance in early embryos to the formation of their mature endings on hair cells in the basilar papilla (organ of Corti) of prehatching chicks. In the stage of peripheral fiber outgrowth, embryonic days 3-5, the fibers emerge from the ganglion cell bodies and grow, in a uniform fashion, toward the undifferentiated receptor epithelium of the otocyst. In the stage of the invasion of the otocyst by the peripheral fibers, embryonic days 6-7, some fibers enter the epithelium directly after reaching it, others enter after traveling some distance longitudinally beneath its basal lamina. The invading fibers appear to encounter resistance at the basal lamina, but, once within the epithelium, at embryonic days 8-9, they form a surfeit of branches in columnar zones oriented radially toward the surface. In early synaptogenesis (embryonic days 8-9) hair cells first become apparent. They differentiate from primitive epithelial cells. These cells withdraw their basal processes, which appear to accompany the growing fibers into the superficial epithelium. At embryonic days 11-13, the stage of mid-synaptogenesis, the fibers develop large, bulbous, preterminal and terminal swellings, which are located below the bases of the hair cells; the surplus branches atrophy or withdraw. Efferent axons are first seen in the epithelium at this time. In late synaptogenesis (embryonic days 14-17), the preterminal swellings disappear and the endings transform into mature foot-shapes at the bases of the hair cells. These morphological changes during the development of the peripheral endings are comparable to those of cochlear axons in nucleus magnocellularis (cochlear nucleus). During mid-synaptogenesis, when the ganglion cells develop swellings in the periphery, their central axons ramify extensively. Late in synaptogenesis, while the peripheral swellings disappear, there is a corresponding condensation of the central terminals to form the end-bulbs of Held. Thus, specific connections of the cochlear ganglion cells and their target cells in the ear and brain may result from two sequential developmental phases: (1) loosely organized and overabundant initial growth of branches from the fibers entering their target tissue; (2) reorganization of these fibers with the disappearance or resorption of the surplus branches during the transformation of their endings into mature synaptic arrangements.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The neurosensory cells of the primary olfactory and vomeronasal projections are in a state of continuous replacement throughout adult life. Since their axons form synaptic terminals with neurons in the olfactory and accessory olfactory bulbs, this system is an apparent exception to the rule that peripheral axons cannot grow into the central nervous system of adult mammals. Electron microscopy of sections (especially in a plane tangential to the surface of the accessory olfactory bulb) shows a unique glial arrangement. By virtue of their greater electron density and &quot;secretory-type&quot; organelle content (Golgi apparatus and dense-core vesicles) the glial cells of the superficial layers of the accessory olfactory bulb are distinguished both from the glia of the vomeronasal nerves and from the astrocytes of the deeper bulbar layers. The synapses between the vomeronasal axons and the postsynaptic elements are formed in glomeruli which are encapsulated by an inner layer of glial cytoplasm derived from the superficial glia, and an outer layer derived from the astrocytes. The principle of the organization is that the superficial glial processes are reflected off the axons before they reach the synaptic terminal zone. Conversely, for the postsynaptic elements, the astrocytic processes are reflected off the dendrites of the accessory olfactory bulb neurons before they enter the core of the glomeruli. In effect, the synapses are formed in a &quot;no-man's-land&quot; between the two glial cell types. This peculiar glial arrangement may be important for the unique regenerative capacity of this system.
Changes in the extracellular concentration of potassium [K+]0 in response to photic stimulation were studied in the skate retina with the aid of ion-selective electrodes. The results confirm earlier studies in demonstrating that the light-evoked changes originate at three intraretinal sites; an efflux of K+ was recorded in the regions of the two plexiform (synaptic) layers, whereas a decrease in [K+]0 occurred in the extracellular space surrounding the photoreceptors. Prolonged illumination induced long-term alterations in the levels of [K+]0 which, depending upon the retinal depth of the recording electrode, contained contributions from the various sinks and sources of [K+]0. In addition, the marked undershoot of the baseline level of [K+]0 that followed termination of the stimulus suggested the activity of a metabolically driven process for the uptake of extracellular potassium.
Injections of various radiolabeled amino acids were made into the caudal rhombencephalic tegmentum in the turtle, Pseudemys scripta elegans. In animals in which injections encompassed the entire area previously identified as the possible source of cerebellar climbing fibers, the basal portion of the molecular layer was labeled almost throughout the contralateral cerebellum. In cases of restricted injections, labeled climbing fibers terminated in quite distinct longitudinally oriented zones. Control injections immediately caudal and rostral to the mentioned rhombencephalic region resulted in labeling of only the granular layer. The organization of the climbing fiber projection in the turtle is compared with the organization of the climbing fiber projection in representatives of birds and mammals as described in the literature. Reptiles, birds and mammals appear to be similar to each other in that they all have climbing fiber projections organized in longitudinal zones; whereas they differ with respect to the extent of climbing fiber penetration into the superficial portions of the molecular layer, mammals having climbing fibers that project significantly more superficially than those of birds or reptiles.
In 11 cats, small quantities of horseradish peroxidase conjugated to wheat germ agglutinin were placed into cortical zones of somatosensory area I representing the distal digits (n = 3), distal toes (n = 2), toes and digits (n = 1), proximal forelimb (n = 1), proximal hindlimb (n = 1), trunk (n = 2), and the face and nose (n = 1). Reconstruction of the pattern of retrograde labeling in somatosensory area II revealed dense, heavily labeled patches of cells in regions that were precisely homotypical to the injection site as determined by electrophysiological recordings. This dense, homotypical patch of labeled cells was usually surrounded by a less densely populated fringe of labeled cells that bordered, but did not appear to enter, heterotypical zones. In two animals, however, some retrogradely labeled cells were found in the cortex representing somatotopic zones adjacent to the sites injected with horseradish peroxidase. These results indicated that somatosensory area II primarily sends homotypical projections to somatosensory area I. In a few cases, however, some retrogradely labeled cells may represent either homo-or heterotypical projections depending on how receptive field sizes and the areal extent of labeling in somatosensory areas I and II are interpreted.
An improved method of preparing central nervous system tissue for examination in a scanning electron microscope is described. In cerebellar cortex, the precise distribution of synaptic junctions on Purkinje cell bodies, as well as complex arrangements of neurites in the glomeruli of the granule cell layer, are directly visualized. The method also provides views of glial cell processes investing brain surfaces, blood vessels and neurons. The principal advantage of a scanning electron microscopic study is that relationships between cells in the brain can be seen directly instead of inferred from laborious serial reconstructions or other more complex and indirect anatomical methods.
In order to substantiate the hypothesis of a cholinergic pathogenesis of neuritic plaques in Alzheimer's disease the relationship between the loss of cholinergic neurons in six subdivisions of the nucleus basalis of Meynert and density of neuritic plaques in five neocortical target areas and hippocampus was studied in five cases with Alzheimer's disease. Distribution of plaques in different cortical areas as well as degeneration pattern of neurons within the subpopulations of the nucleus basalis were markedly different in the cases of Alzheimer's disease. Quantitative evaluation of the number of neuritic plaques in the five cortical areas revealed a strong correlation with the loss of neurons in those subpopulations of the nucleus basalis which give rise to the cholinergic innervation of the affected cortical areas. The nonlinearity of this correlation may reflect two different modes of plaque formation. Either plaque formation is a self-perpetuating process with an increasing rate depending on the number of plaques already formed or additional mechanisms, with an increasing rate of influence during plaque formation are induced. The shape of the regression function is different for the various cortical regions and their corresponding subpopulations of the nucleus basalis suggesting a different dependency of neuritic plaque formation on the neuronal loss in the nucleus basalis. This might reflect a different density of cholinergic fibers within these areas, a different degree of collateralization of the fibers or other factors not yet known. The findings indicate that degeneration of cortical cholinergic afferents from the neurons of the nucleus basalis is an important feature in the pathogenesis of neuritic plaques.
The synaptic relationship between serotoninergic terminals and luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone-containing neurons was investigated in the medial preoptic area using a combined technique. Axon terminals selectively taking up 5-[3H]hydroxytryptamine were labelled autoradiographically and luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone-containing neuronal elements were identified by means of immunocytochemistry. Synaptic contacts were observed between tritiated 5-hydroxytryptamine-labelled boutons and luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone-immunoreactive dendrites. About 5% of the boutons which formed synapses with luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone-immunoreactive dendrites were found to be labelled by the tritiated indolamine. Luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone-immunoreactive axon terminals occurred as presynaptic elements in contact with unidentified dendritic spines, shafts or perikarya. These observations provide morphological basis for the idea that 5-hydroxytryptamine-containing neurons can act directly on luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone release. Further, they support the assumption that luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone is not only a neurohormone but may also function as a neurotransmitter or neuromodulator.
Using an indirect immunofluorescence method the distribution of vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) immunoreactivity was studied in human foetus and newborn infant spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia. Further, for comparison some newborn infant brains were also investigated. Vasoactive intestinal peptide-like immunoreactive fibres were exclusively found in the caudal spinal cord and corresponding dorsal root ganglia. No immunoreactive cell bodies were detected. The first appearance of VIP-like immunoreactive fibres in both spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia was suggested during the fourth month of foetal life. Most immunolabelled fibres, concentrated in the sacral segment, were distributed in the Lissauer tract, along the dorsolateral gray border, in the intermediolateral areas and near the central canal in the dorsolateral commissure. A few VIP-like immunoreactive fibres were also seen in the dorsal funiculus and occasionally in the ventral gray horn and ventral roots. Further, a large population of VIP-like immunoreactive fibres occurs longitudinally in dorsal root, in ganglia and in the spinal nerve exit zone. These findings indicate the early appearance of VIP-like immunoreactive fibres in the human foetus spinal cord and corresponding ganglia. Moreover, they emphasize that in both foetus and newborn infant spinal cord VIP-like immunoreactive fibre distribution is limited to the lumbosacral segment.
The distribution of serotonin-containing nerve cell bodies, fibers and terminals in the lizard Varanus exanthematicus was studied with the indirect immunofluorescence technique, using antibodies to serotonin. Most of the serotonin-containing cell bodies were found in the midline, in both of the raphe nuclei, i.e. the nuclei raphes superior and inferior. A considerable number of more laterally shifted serotonergic neurons was found particularly at three levels of the brain stem, viz. in the caudal mesencephalic tegmentum, at the isthmic level, and over a long distance in the medulla oblongata. These laterally situated serotonin-positive neurons were partly found within the confines of the substantia nigra, the nucleus reticularis superior and the lateral part of the nucleus reticularis medius and ventrolateral part of the nucleus reticularis inferior, respectively. No serotonergic cell bodies were found in the spinal cord. In the brain stem a dense serotonergic innervation was observed in all of the motor nuclei of the cranial nerves, in two layers of the tectum mesencephali, in the nucleus interpeduncularis pars ventralis, the nucleus profundus mesencephali pars rostralis, the periventricular grey, the nucleus parabrachialis, the vestibular nuclear complex, the nucleus descendens nervi trigemini, the nucleus raphes inferior, and parts of the nucleus tractus solitarii. Descending serotonergic pathways could be traced into the spinal cord via the dorsolateral, ventral and ventromedial funiculi, and were found to innervate mainly three parts of the spinal grey throughout the spinal cord, i.e. the dorsal part of the dorsal horn, the motoneuron area in the ventral horn, and the intermediate zone just lateral to the central canal. The results obtained in the present study suggest a close resemblance of the organization of the serotonergic system in reptiles and mammals, especially as to the serotonergic innervation of the spinal cord.
Out of several monoclonal antibodies secreted by hybridomas resulting from the fusion of a mouse myeloma cell line with spleen cells from mice immunized with cerebellar membranes from 12 day old rats, one, called 11.9, produced an unusual immunolabelling pattern when tested on sections of rat cerebellum. The cerebellar distribution of the antigenic sites recognized by this antibody using an immunoperoxidase technique at the optical and ultrastructural levels is described in detail in this report. The immunoreaction product was found in the adult rat to be associated with the microtubules and the zone immediately beneath the plasma membrane of parallel fibres. In young animals the density of immunostaining appears to be higher than in the adult, and the staining is detectable in addition in the perikaryal cytoplasm of granule cells. Biochemical studies using the Western immunoblot technique demonstrate that the antigens consist of two polypeptides of molecular weights 120 and 185 kD. The possible relation of the antigens to cytoskeletal structures is discussed and the labelling pattern is compared with that produced by other known monoclonal antibodies.
The effect of two benzodiazepines, midazolam and diazepam, was studied in guinea-pig myenteric neurones, using intracellular recording techniques. Both these benzodiazepines (100-300 pM) potentiated the rapidly desensitizing, bicuculline-sensitive depolarization, induced by alpha-aminobutyrate ionophoresis. Concentrations of midazolam and diazepam higher than 100 nM depressed the gamma-aminobutyrate-induced depolarization. The potentiating effect of the benzodiazepines was reversibly abolished by Ro 15-1788 (1-100 nM) and by pentylenetetrazol (100 microM). A second effect of midazolam and diazepam (100-300 pM) was a reversible depression of the amplitude and duration of the directly evoked action potential in 29% of neurones, without affecting membrane potential or conductance. The effect was very marked when electrodes were filled with CsCl, and was also seen in the presence of tetrodotoxin. In some but not all of these neurones, the amplitude and duration of the action potentials was reduced also by gamma-aminobutyrate (1-10 microM). Ro 15-1788 and pentylenetetrazol reversibly abolished the effect of benzodiazepines on the action potential, but not that of gamma-aminobutyrate. Thus, benzodiazepines have two effects on myenteric neurones. The first is an enhancement of the gamma-aminobutyrate response (activation of Cl conductance); the second is a depression of the calcium action potential, which appears to be independent of gamma-aminobutyrate.
The effect of culture conditions, serum supplementation or chemically defined medium and the influence of thyroid hormone were studied on the development of the Na+, K+-adenosine triphosphatase (Na+,K+-ATPase) and on the intracellular content of K+ and Na+ ions in cultures which either were greatly enriched in a neuronal cell type, the cerebellar granule cells, or contained a mixed population of cells (brain reaggregates). Foetal rat brain reaggregates displayed lower Na+,K+-ATPase activity when cultured in chemically defined medium than in the presence of serum. Supplementation of the serum-free medium with thyroid hormone resulted in a rise in the Na+,K+-ATPase activity and [3H]ouabain binding to levels similar to those found in the cultures grown in the serum-containing medium. Thyroid hormone had no significant effect on the Mg2+-ATPase activity and on the intracellular content of Na+ and K+ ions. In the granule cell-enriched cerebellar surface cultures the Na+,K+-ATPase activity was lower when the cells were grown in chemically defined medium compared with the serum-containing medium, and the intracellular Na+ to K+ ratio was higher. Thyroid hormone had no effect on the Na+,K+-ATPase activity, [3H]ouabain binding or Mg2+-ATPase activity. The hormone also failed to influence ATPase activities in cerebellar astrocytes maintained in chemically defined medium. Although thyroid hormone had no effect on the Na+,K+-ATPase activity of cultured cerebellar granule cells, treatment with the hormone resulted in a decrease in the ratio of intracellular Na+ to K+ ion content. The effect of the hormone on the Na+,K+-pump activity in live cells was therefore tested by estimating ouabain-sensitive 86Rb uptake. This was regulated as in other cell types, by the rate of Na+ entry: the Na+-ionophore monensin trebled the rate of 86Rb uptake, which was also increased (+30-100%) by 10% foetal calf serum, the maximal response being obtained by about 20 min exposure to serum. The effect was completely blocked by the Na+/H+ exchange inhibitor amiloride. The factor(s) in the serum responsible for the regulation of the Na+,K+-pump were, however, not the thyroid hormones, which failed to affect 86Rb uptake. On the basis of comparing thyroid hormone effects on the different cultures studied it was concluded that not every type of neural cell is target of the hormone action during development.
The release of enzymatically active acetylcholinesterase was measured from two types of neuronal cell cultures. Evidence is presented that primary cultures of chick optic lobe and clonal rat PC12 cells released acetylcholinesterase by similar mechanisms. The secretion was selective for the tetrameric or larger molecule forms of acetylcholinesterase. Thus the chick primary cultures released the so-called G4 isoenzyme of acetylcholinesterase. The rat PC12 cells, after pretreatment with nerve growth factor, secreted mainly G4 acetylcholinesterase and a small amount of an isoenzyme sedimenting at 16S. The rate of secretion of acetylcholinesterase was regulated by the three types of agents used. (1) Acetylcholinesterase secretion was markedly increased by nerve growth factor. (2) Microtubule inhibitors (colchicine, taxol and nocodazole) suppressed the rate of release of acetylcholinesterase. (3) Acetylcholinesterase release was also decreased by an inhibitor of protein glycosylation, tunicamycin. We provide evidence that these three types of agents regulate acetylcholinesterase secretion not by a direct effect on secretion, but by modulatory effects on the synthesis, intracellular transport and turnover of the enzyme. (1) Nerve growth factor acts on acetylcholinesterase secretion via increased synthesis of messenger RNA. (2) Microtubule inhibitors act by preventing intracellular transport. (3) Tunicamycin acts by decreasing the intracellular activity of acetylcholinesterase, possibly via enhanced proteolytic breakdown.
Intracellular recordings were made from locus coeruleus neurones in a slice of rat pons superfused in vitro. A single-electrode voltage-clamp amplifier was used to measure membrane currents. Superfusion of the slice with clonidine (3-100 nM) or noradrenaline (100 nM-100 microM), or brief application of noradrenaline from a pipette by a pressure pulse, caused dose-dependent membrane hyperpolarizations. Phenylephrine (10 microM) and isoprenaline (10 microM) were ineffective. The hyperpolarizations were accompanied by a decrease in neurone input resistance. The hyperpolarization evoked by pressure ejection of noradrenaline could be reversed by membrane polarization to -110 mV. Clonidine and noradrenaline caused a membrane current which was linearly related to membrane potential between -50 and -120 mV, being outward at resting levels and reversing at -110 mV. The concentration-response curves for clonidine and noradrenaline were shifted rightwards in a parallel manner by alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonists. The antagonist KeS estimated from the degree of shift were: RX 781094 9 nM, yohimbine 14 nM, phentolamine 20 nM and piperoxane 49 nM. These experiments indicate that in locus coeruleus neurones an increase in potassium conductance results from activation of alpha 2-adrenoceptors similar to those characterized on peripheral neurones.
The variation with time of the rising phase of the sodium conductance in squid giant axons was fitted to the Xth power of running integrals of the colchicine-sensitive components of the asymmetry currents, where the running integrals were experimentally obtained. We found that excellent fitting was obtained for all of the potentials examined from -60 to +60 mV, when we put the value of X equal to 3 at potentials above 10 mV and equal to 5 below -20 mV, and it varied continuously from 3 to 5 when pulse potentials changed from 10 to -25 mV. Further, it was found that the voltage dependence of the peak sodium currents was fitted to the third power of charges carried by the colchicine-sensitive component of the asymmetry current by the moment when the sodium current attained its peak. These results agree well with the expectation by Hodgkin and Huxley [(1952) J. Physiol., Lond. 117, 500-544] although the gating kinetics differ from the Hodgkin-Huxley prediction [Matsumoto, Ichikawa and Tasaki (1983) J. Membr. Biol. 77, 93-99].
Intracellular recordings were obtained from motoneurones of the slice preparation of the in vitro frog spinal cord to assess the participation of K+ channels in the generation of amino acid-induced excitation. The amino acids were applied by fast superfusion and at low temperature to reduce their uptake processes. Intracellular Cs+, bath-applied tetraethylammonium or 4-aminopyridine prolonged the spike and blocked its afterhyperpolarizations. Tetraethylammonium and 4-aminopyridine enhanced the synaptic activation of motoneurones which could be abolished by including Mn2+ in the superfusion fluid. Mn2+ reduced the duration of action potentials already prolonged by 4-aminopyridine but appeared to cause plateaus to develop on tetraethylammonium-prolonged spikes. The hypothesis that amino acids depolarize motoneurones by closing K+ channels was tested by observing the effects of K+ channel blocking agents on amino acid responses. Neither tetraethylammonium nor 4-aminopyridine reduced the excitatory depolarizations evoked by glutamate, N-methyl-D-aspartate, quisqualate or DL-homocysteate. Intracellular Cs+ blocked responses to amino acids irrespective of their receptor preference; an action which has been interpreted as non-specific.
Characteristics of the gamma-aminobutyric acid receptors on melanotrophs of the rat pars intermedia were studied by intracellular recording. Muscimol and 3-amino-1-propanesulfonic acid, but not baclofen or glycine, mimicked the depolarization and conductance increase produced by gamma-aminobutyric acid on the melanotrophs. These effects appeared to be due to an increase in chloride ion conductance since the null potentials for all three drugs were the same and were affected by changes in external or internal chloride ion concentration but not by changes in the concentrations of other ions present in the recording solution or by the addition of the calcium-channel blocker cobalt. Bicuculline abolished the effect of muscimol. Picrotoxin reduced the effect of gamma-aminobutyric acid; so too did furosemide. Muscimol mimicked the ability of gamma-aminobutyric acid to reduce the depolarization produced by excess potassium and this effect was also blocked by bicuculline. Rat melanotrophs thus appear to possess gamma-aminobutyric acid receptor-ionophore complexes similar to the classical sort found in neurons in the mammalian central nervous system. Furthermore, the parallels between the electrical responses observed and secretory effects previously noted, reinforce the view that electrical activity may participate in stimulus-secretion coupling in melanotrophs.
A multicompartment passive electrotonic computer model is constructed for the cerebellar Purkinje cell of the guinea-pig. The model has 1089 coupled compartments to accurately represent the morphology of the Purkinje cell. In order that the calculated behavior of the model fit the published electrophysiological observations of somatic and dendritic input conductance, the neural membrane resistivity must be spatially non-uniform. The passive electrical parameter values for which the model best fits the observations of input conductances, pulse attenuation and current-clamp voltage transients are rm,dend = 45,740 omega cm2, rm,soma = 760 omega cm2, ri = 225 omega cm and cm = 1.16 microF/cm2 (the membrane and cytoplasm specific resistivities and membrane specific capacitance, respectively). The model with these parameter values is electrically compact, with electrotonic length X = 0.33 and dendritic dominance ratio p = 0.44. Analysis of the calculated voltage transient of the multicompartment model by the methods of equivalent-cylinder cable theory is shown to result in very different and unreliable conclusions. The significance for neuronal function of the estimated electrical parameter values is discussed. The possible effect of active conductances on these conclusions is assessed.
Intracellular recordings were made from neurones in the nucleus locus coeruleus in a slice of tissue cut from the rat pons. Clonidine (100 nM-10 microM), noradrenaline (10 microM-1 mM) and adrenaline (10 microM-1 mM) all reduced the duration of the spontaneously occurring action potential of the neurones. This effect was also observed on the action potential in the presence of tetrodotoxin, which results from calcium entering the cell. These concentrations of clonidine, noradrenaline and adrenaline always hyperpolarized the membrane. This hyperpolarization was prevented by two procedures which block potassium currents--intracellular caesium and extracellular barium. In conditions of potassium current blockade, noradrenaline (100 microM-1 mM) and adrenaline (20 microM-1 mM) shortened the calcium action potential but clonidine was ineffective even at 10 microM. Adrenaline and noradrenaline also suppressed inward calcium and barium currents measured under voltage clamp. This action of noradrenaline and adrenaline was not prevented by yohimbine (10 microM), propranolol (20 microM) or prazosin (1 microM); it was reduced by a concentration of phentolamine about 100 times higher than its Ke for alpha 2-adrenoceptors on locus coeruleus neurones. It is concluded that noradrenaline and adrenaline can directly inhibit calcium action potentials in locus coeruleus neurones when applied in high concentrations, but that this does not involve an alpha 2-adrenoceptor.
The recording of evoked potentials (EPs) has become one of the most useful functional diagnostic techniques in the neurosciences during recent years. In combination with the neurophysiological investigation of brain stem reflexes (BSRs) EPs provide good information concerning circumscribed and diffuse brain and brain stem lesions. In this article the role of EPs and BSRs will be pointed out with special regard to their use in neurosurgery concerning awake and comatose patients as well. Pathological findings caused by extracerebral factors or due to neurological (systemic) and otological diseases will be discussed from the aspect of differential diagnosis only. Evoked potentials described in this paper are short latency potentials which are related to more or less defined generators in the peripheral and central nervous system. EPs of long latency seem to play a role in cognitive, affective and integrative functions of the central nervous system and they will not be dealt with in this article. In recent years an increasing number of review articles and monographs dealing with several aspects of evoked potentials has appeared [16, 17, 18, 25, 69, 80, 84, 122, 123, 124, 127, 130].
Serum concentrations of short and medium chain fatty acids, including octanoate, are elevated in hepatic encephalopathy and Reye syndrome. Injection of octanoate into animals produces features reminiscent of Reye syndrome, but the mechanisms are unknown. To evaluate the effect of octanoate on blood-brain barrier permeability, three techniques were used. Entry of horseradish peroxidase and trypan blue into brain was not observed after octanoate injection. Brain uptake of tryptamine, tyrosine and methionine was increased significantly by octanoate, while uptake of insulin was unchanged. This study suggests that octanoate may produce central nervous system alterations by facilitating entry of certain low molecular weight compounds into brain. This may represent one mechanism for the development of encephalopathy in liver disease and Reye syndrome.

In situ hybridization histochemistry is a useful method for localizing specific mRNA and studying the regulation of gene expression in an anatomical context. Previously, classical recombinant DNA and microbiological techniques have been required to identify and nick-translate the cloned DNAs necessary for in situ hybridization experiments. These requirements can be circumvented by the use of synthetic oligonucleotides complementary to the mRNA of interest. Compared to cloned cDNA probes, oligonucleotides are easy to manufacture, penetrate tissue much more easily, can be made to correspond to a sequence at any point in a known cDNA structure, and allow for the design of more precise controls for in situ studies. We describe a number of considerations in oligonucleotide probe design, including unique probe design from cDNA sequences and mixed probe design from protein primary structure data. The issues of species specificity, G-C content, probe length, tissue-specific mRNA expression, repeated sequences, non-coding region specific probes, and gene family homologies are discussed in an in situ hybridization context. Alternative strategies for mixed probe design are also considered. Information on the synthesis, purification, and sequence confirmation of oligonucleotides is then presented, followed by methods for labeling and using these probes for in situ hybridization histochemistry. The special considerations of specificity controls are addressed, including combined in situ hybridization histochemistry and immunocytochemistry, competition studies, the use of multiple hybridization probes, Tm studies, and Northern analysis of extracted RNA. The current and future directions of research with this technique are considered, with emphasis on the need to improve quantitation in order to facilitate the study of gene expression and regulation at the single cell level.
In situ hybridization techniques have been developed that quantitate the relative levels of specific mRNAs in individual cell types of a heterogeneous tissue, the mammalian brain. Here, we discuss those special procedures and precautions necessary for hybridizing radiolabeled probes to developing and adult brain mRNAs. The probes discussed include double-stranded recombinant DNA, as well as single-stranded DNA, RNA, and polyuridylate. We detail the procedure for determining the relative numbers of hybrids formed and computing the ratio of specific mRNAs to total polyadenylated mRNA and discuss the importance of this ratio for comparison of relative levels of specific mRNAs within and among cell types in an individual brain or between brains.
A method of electromyography (EMG) recording is described which makes it possible to follow simultaneously the activity of 4 muscles in awake, unrestrained rats and cats for 3-5 months. The implantable recording array consists of a percutaneous connector, steel wire spiral leads contained in silicone tubing and bipolar platinum electrodes embedded in silicone platelets. These electrode probes can be fixed onto the surface of various muscles without direct injury to the muscle and, at the same time, without electrical interference from neighbouring muscles. In most rats, EMG activity was recorded bilaterally from the soleus and tibialis anterior muscles. This method has so far been employed for assessing the muscle activity in experiments on reflex muscle atrophy, unilateral hindlimb deafferentation, disuse muscle atrophy induced by limb immobilization and compensatory muscle hypertrophy. A simple computer program has been used to evaluate the resting, postural activity. Objective information about muscle coordination, patterns of locomotor and reflex activity, muscle use and disuse under specific experimental conditions can only be obtained in awake, unrestrained laboratory animals by recording electromyographic (EMG) activity in chronic experiments. For this purpose we developed a method of chronic polyelectromyography allowing recording from 4 muscles in rats and cats (Hnk et al. 1978) for several months. The method is briefly reviewed here, together with some applications to animal experiments.




A review is given about the basic principles of neuromagnetic recordings and somatically evoked magnetic fields with examples from the authors' own work. MEG provides good spatial resolution for activity in the fissural cortex. It has, for example, allowed differentiation of current sources in the primary and secondary somatosensory cortices. Some cortical areas activated by painful stimuli have also been localized by means of MEG.

Clinical Neurophysiology brings about 2 major contributions in the study of Parkinson's disease: on the one hand, it makes it possible to measure the motor troubles; on the other, it enables their pathophysiological analysis. The 3 classical signs must be studied separately. Tremor can easily be recorded by electromyography. Moreover, its parkinsonian nature can be specified by studying the resetting of EMG bursts following electrical stimulation of the motor nerve. A pace maker has been demonstrated in the thalamus from where rhythmic messages are first sent to motor cortex and thereafter reverberated to spinal motoneurons. Rigidity can be assessed by sophisticated but not generalized methods. It is easier to evaluate it by long-loop responses evoked by proprioceptive or exteroceptive stimulations. These responses reflect activity in pathways relaying in supraspinal structures. Contrary to spasticity, rigidity is not basically due to dysfunctions in segmentary spinal circuits. It is more likely that it depends on hyperactive and hyperexcitable long loop pathways. This hypothesis is in agreement with well established facts showing that parkinsonian hypertonia vanishes after dorsal root section. Akinesia is complex semeiologically. It is made of various components some of which can be measured. Reaction times and movement times provide interesting data which however are not strictly correlated with the motor handicap. Motor programmes are assembled in normal delays but they are not &quot;called upon&quot; correctly, reflecting a disturbance in the motor planning. A lack of &quot;energetization&quot; of the motor cortex and the pyramidal tract is likely. A functional disconnection between the motor program/plan side and the execution side can be hypothesized to explain the 3 major signs; on the one hand, neural messages are not correctly transferred to the pyramidal system, on the other, spinoencephalospinal loops on the execution side become more active as they escape from the control normally exerted by the plan/program side where basal ganglia play a prominent role.
Performance in discriminating rotated 'same' patterns from 'different' patterns may decrease with rotation angle up to about 90 degrees and then increase with angle up to 180 degrees. This anomalously improved performance under 180 degrees pattern rotation or point-inversion can be explained by assuming that patterns are internally represented in terms of local features and their spatial-order relations ('left of', 'above', etc.), and that, in pattern comparison, an efficient internal sense-reversal operation occurs (transforming 'left of' to 'right of', etc.). Previous experiments suggested that local features and spatial relations could not be efficiently separated in some pattern-comparison tasks. This hypothesis was tested by measuring 'same-different' discrimination performance under four transformation: point-inversion 1 of the whole pattern, point-inversion 1F of local features alone, point-inversion 1P of local-feature positions alone, and identity transformation Id. The results suggested that internal sense-reversal operations could be applied selectively and efficiently, provided that local features were well separated. Under this condition performances for 1F and 1 were about the same whereas performance for 1P was significantly worse, the latter performance resulting possibly from an attempt to apply internal global and local sense-reversal operations serially.



Enteric neurophysiology is an emerging subspecialty of gastrointestinal biology. As such, it offers many investigative challenges and opportunities for advancement of understanding of gastrointestinal function. This review is organized to present the current status of enteric neurophysiology, to explain the controversies, and to explore the directions in which the subspecialty appears to be advancing. Current concepts of structural-functional relationships of the neuronal constituents of the enteric nervous system are presented in conjunction with electrophysiological and synaptic mechanisms. Relations between electrical and synaptic behavior of the neurons and information handling and integrative function within the local circuits are explored. Emergent properties of the system are considered in view of indications that the subsets of internuncial circuits that control each gastrointestinal effector are interconnected to ensure appropriate behavior that achieves coordination for optimal performance of the whole organ.
In the present article a method is described which allows the delineation of the projections of a single neuron as well as the identification of one or more of its chemical components. The technique is a combination of retrograde tracing and fluorescent dyes based on the work of Kuypers and collaborators and indirect immunofluorescence histochemistry as originally described by Coons and collaborators. The crucial parameters including the selection of the dyes, the injection technique and tissue processing as well as the appropriate immunohistochemical fluorescent markers and filter combinations are discussed. The method of choice involves the use of the retrogradely transported dyes Fast Blue, True Blue or Propidium Iodide, and in addition, for double labeling experiments, Diamidino Yellow or Primuline. They are combined with FITC (Propidium Iodide) or TRITC (Fast Blue, True Blue, Diamidino Yellow, Primuline) as immunofluorescence markers.




In the present report we describe the construction of a systemic vascular perfusion device designed to perfuse small mammals with fixatives under a constant, controlled hydrostatic pressure. The device is powered by compressed-air. The construction of the device allows the interchange of vessels containing various perfusates during the perfusion, without having to interrupt the flow or alter the hydrostatic pressure. Large volumes of fixatives can be perfused in a relatively short time, leading to good preservation of brain tissue, both for light and electron microscopical purposes.

Our goal is to estimate neuronal numbers from counts of nucleolar profiles. The primary difficulty is that a simple way to convert the counts to the numbers, especially when multiple nucleoli are present in a nucleus, is not available. In this paper, we propose a solution. The formula is N = n X [N(c.f.)/n(c.f.)] where N = the true number of neurons, n = the number of nucleolar profiles in these neurons, N(c.f.) = the number of neurons used to estimate the correction factor and n(c.f.) = the number of nucleolar profiles found in the neurons that make up N(c.f.). The constraints are that the neurons identified for N(c.f.) be representative of the entire population, N; that the nucleolar profiles be counted by the same criteria when n(c.f.) is determined as when n is determined, and that when the correction factor [N(c.f.)/n(c.f.)] is calculated, the nucleolar profiles in each neuron be counted only once. The advantages are simplicity, and generality; the latter resulting from the empirical nature of the correction factor which can calibrate for multiple nucleoli, split nucleoli, invisible fragments, nucleolar size changes, section thickness differences and any other factors that cause n to deviate from N.

The BASIC program developed for use on an RML380Z computer collects, sorts, corrects and analyzes counts of organelle number, and measurements of membrane length and profile area. These fundamental parameters are used to derive intermediate parameters and their interrelationships are examined. Data input routines permit either measurements obtained from a digitizer tablet or the use of non-automated methods. A main program controls overall program flow and discrete sub-programs implement data input, data checking, derivation of parameters and analyses. The program is applied here to analyses of motoneurone synaptology, but with simple adaptation may be used to analyze other cell types.
Liposomes are combined with Lucifer Yellow in order to evoke neuronal uptake of this fluorescent dye in the medial basal hypothalamus. Lucifer Yellow liposomes are preferentially taken up by hypothalamic neurons. The dye spreads into the dendrites and axons, producing Golgi-revealing views of several neurons near the injection site in which both untrapped and liposome-entrapped Lucifer Yellow has been microiontophoretically administered. The capriciousness of the labeled neurons makes it possible to study the dendritic arborization and spines, while the axon with its collaterals can be followed to their targets. Moreover, the dye is also taken up retrogradely. When retrograde uptake over great distances occurs, the Golgi-like appearance is missing, because only then is perikaryal labeling found.
The neuroscience aspects of care associated with a 365-day hospitalization of a 25-year-old, C1 quadriplegic are presented in the following article. The patient and his family have given permission to present specifics of his case and to use his name and photograph. This report does not consider all of the technical aspects of this patient's care. Our focus is on procedures and problems concomitant with phrenic stimulation and with discharge planning.


The development of glio-interstitial cell processes has been studied by quantitative electron microscopy in the anterior byssal retractor muscle of mussels kept in various artificial sea-waters. After 20 days, the number of glio-interstitial processes per unit area of muscle section from animals adapted to diluted sea-water (700 mosM) is not significantly different from the control (1100 mosM) but it is almost doubled in mussels adapted to concentrated sea-water (1400 mosM). The diluted sea-water has a high [Ca2+]/[Na+]2 molar ratio (6.81 X 10(-5)) and the concentrated sea-water a relatively low one (3.34 X 10(-5)); all the ions are present in the same proportions as in the control. In a second experiment, diluted sea-water (700 mosM) with a low [Ca2+]/[Na+]2 (3.34 X 10(-5)) and concentrated sea-water (1400 mosM) with a high ratio (6.81 X 10(-5)) are tested: the results agree with the prediction that the development of glio-interstitial processes depends on the relative concentrations of Na+ and Ca2+ rather than on osmotic pressure or ionic strength. In the third experiment, five artificial sea-waters are employed with decreasing [Ca2+]/[Na+]2 ratios, all at the same osmotic pressure of 1100 mosM: the results suggest that the salinity-induced proliferation of glio-interstitial processes is directly dependent on the [Ca2+]/[Na+]2 ratio. Glial proliferation thus occurs in reaction to the relative lack of Ca2+, or excess of Na+, in the environment; it is proposed that the glio-interstitial tissue plays a role in regulating the concentration of Ca2+ in the vicinity of the muscle and/or the nerve cells.
Acetylcholine metabolism has been studied in primary cultures of neurons dissociated from newborn rat nodose ganglia. Neither nerve growth factor nor muscle-conditioned medium had any detectable effect on the long-term survival of these neurons, which appeared well differentiated upon phase-contrast and electron microscopic examination. [3H]Acetylcholine synthesis and accumulation by 2-3-week old nodose cultures and choline acetyltransferase activity were increased (2.0 +/- 0.15)-fold and (2.0 +/- 0.48)-fold, respectively, upon growth with muscle-conditioned medium, whereas acetylcholinesterase was decreased (1.5 +/- 0.1)-fold (means +/- SEM, n = 5-9). The same effects were observed when comparing nodose cultures grown in the presence of proteins purified from conditioned medium in four fractionation steps. This purified material had no effects on the protein content of the cultures, or on lactate dehydrogenase activity, and thus did not affect the overall growth of the cultures. We demonstrate that this factor copurifies with a factor(s) involved in the regulation of choline acetyltransferase and acetylcholinesterase in neuron cultures from newborn rat superior cervical ganglia [Swerts, Le Van Thai, Vigny and Weber (1983) Devl Biol. 100, 1-11] and from embryonic day 13 rat embryo spinal cord [Giess and Weber (1984) J. Neurosci. 4, 1442-1452]. Although the cholinergic factor from muscle-conditioned medium has not been purified to homogeneity, the data suggest that the same extracellular, macromolecular factor may be involved in the regulation of acetylcholine metabolism in derivatives from the neural crest, the neural tube and the epibranchial placodes.
Both chloroadenosine (EC50 = 3 X 10(-7) M) and cholera toxin, like nerve growth factor, increase the specific activity of choline acetyltransferase in PC12 cells over a period of several days. The increase in choline acetyltransferase activity in response to chloroadenosine appears to be caused by the ability of chloroadenosine to increase adenosine 3':5'-phosphate synthesis by binding to an adenosine receptor that activates adenylate cyclase. To test this hypothesis we determined if chloroadenosine can cause an increase in choline acetyltransferase activity in adenosine kinase-deficient PC12 cells. We have previously shown that adenosine analogues are significantly less effective at regulating adenosine 3':5'-phosphate in adenosine kinase-deficient PC12 cells than in wild type cells [Erny and Wagner (1984) Proc. natn. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 81, 4974-4978]. Adenosine kinase-deficient PC12 cells are resistant to the induction of choline acetyltransferase in response to chloroadenosine, but not cholera toxin, supporting the role of adenosine 3':5'-phosphate in mediating the effects of chloroadenosine. The increase in choline acetyltransferase activity in wild type cells was accompanied by an increase in acetylcholine levels, demonstrating that chloroadenosine also regulates storage of acetylcholine. Acetylcholine levels were quantitated using an assay based on the ability of acetylcholine to compete with [125I]bungarotoxin for binding to the acetylcholine receptor.
Rats, submitted to forced swimming for a period of 15 min (stress), were killed immediately, 60 min or 24 h thereafter. There was an initial decrease in [3H]quinuclidinyl benzilate specific binding in membranes of cerebral cortex (-27%) that returned to normal levels after 60 min. In basal ganglia (striatum and globus pallidus) there was a significant decrease (-14%) in Bmax after 60 min that recovered at 24 h. In cerebellum, an increase in [3H]quinuclidinyl benzilate binding occurred at 60 min (+41%) which was reversed at 24 h. In all cases there were no changes in affinity. These results are discussed in relation to the possible mechanisms that could be involved in the rapid, reversible and selective changes of cholinergic muscarinic receptors in response to acute stress.
This study demonstrates that trigeminal nucleus oralis, the most rostral subdivision of the spinal trigeminal nucleus, contains four morphologically distinct types of small neurons which project to the medullary dorsal horn (trigeminal nucleus caudalis) via descending intratrigeminal pathways. Using the retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase following injections in the medullary dorsal horn, labeled small neurons with cell bodies ranging from 8-15 microns in diameter are found principally in the ventrolateral portion of the trigeminal nucleus oralis. Most neurons are labeled ipsilaterally throughout the entire rostrocaudal extent of the ventrolateral portion of the trigeminal nucleus oralis, but a few cells are also labeled contralaterally. From this aspect of the present study it can be concluded that a specific portion of the trigeminal nucleus oralis, i.e. the ventrolateral part, contains numerous small neurons which send descending projections to the medullary dorsal horn that could affect synaptic activity there. Utilizing both the methods of Golgi and retrograde horseradish peroxidase labeling four distinct types of small descending medullary dorsal horn projection neurons can be distinguished in the ventrolateral portion of the trigeminal nucleus oralis on the basis of their morphology and the distribution of their axons and dendrites. All four neuronal cell types are present throughout the entire rostrocaudal extent of the trigeminal nucleus oralis. Type I neurons are the most frequently labeled descending medullary dorsal horn projection neurons. They are concentrated in the medial 500-550 microns of the ventrolateral portion of the trigeminal nucleus oralis and display dendritic trees which occupy spherical domains approaching 300 microns in diameter. The unmyelinated axons of many of these cells arise either directly from the cell body or a primary dendrite and give rise to a single collateral within 50 microns of their site of origin. This collateral generates a fine axonal plexus within a portion of the dendritic arbor of the parent cell while the parent axon, without branching further, travels a short distance in the ventrolateral portion of the trigeminal nucleus oralis and enters a deep axon bundle. Type II neurons are the second most frequently labeled descending medullary dorsal horn projection neuron. They generate medial and lateral dendritic arbors which together span nearly the entire medial 500-550 microns of the ventrolateral portion of the trigeminal nucleus oralis. An unmyelinated axon emerges from the cell body and within 10-30 microns of its origin gives rise to two collaterals.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Intracellular recordings were obtained from CA1 neurons of rat hippocampal slices preparation. Dopamine applied by perfusion (10(-5)-10(-7) M), microdrop (10(-4) M) and iontophoresis (+80, +200 nA balanced current) inhibited &quot;spontaneous&quot; and evoked action potentials. An increase in current injection restored the evoked action potentials which appeared unmodified. Membrane potential was not modified in 60% of the neurons; in the remaining ones, a slow depolarization was observed. Membrane resistance, measured at rest, was not modified by dopamine. Calcium-mediated events such as bursting activity and afterhyperpolarization, mainly in the late component, were also attenuated by the catecholamine. These effects were antagonized by domperidone, a dopaminergic antagonist. Calcium spikes, evoked in tetrodotoxin- and tetraethylammonium-poisoned slices, were reversibly inhibited by dopamine. Since an increase in the amplitude of a depolarizing pulse of injected current was able to evoke both sodium and calcium action potentials suppressed by dopamine without change in shape or duration, it is concluded that this catecholamine depresses cellular excitability by altering the interaction between membrane voltage and sodium and calcium entry and the subsequent increase in potassium conductance.
The progressive appearance of [3H]kainic acid binding sites with age has been studied in membrane suspensions prepared from various regions of the rat limbic system, and by autoradiography. Binding sites with fast dissociation rate appeared earlier than binding sites with slow dissociation rate. Scatchard analysis demonstrated apparent receptor heterogeneity for both subclasses. High affinity components were detected in the hippocampus as early as 10 days after birth, but in the amygdala + piriform lobe were found only towards the end of the third week, when animals also respond to parenteral kainic acid, for the first time, with limbic seizures accompanied by metabolic activation of the amygdala. Slice autoradiography revealed distinct labelling of the hippocampal CA3 region by postnatal day 10. A comparison with the ontogenesis of the kainic acid-induced seizure-brain damage syndrome suggests a role of high affinity receptors as mediators of metabolic nerve cell activation by kainic acid. However, this receptor interaction per se does not result in neuronal damage to the vulnerable region of the Ammon's horn, which will only occur at an age when also the amygdala is activated by the neurotoxin.
The histopathological sequelae of parenteral administration of kainic acid were investigated in immature rats (3-35 days of age). The brains were fixed 1-14 days after the administration of kainate and the damage evaluated by means of argyrophylic (Fink-Heimer, Gallyas or Nauta-Gygax) and Nissl stains. In animals of less than 18 days of age there was no sign of damage even after 1-2 h of severe tonico-clonic convulsions. Between 18 and 35 days after birth, there was a progressive increase in the severity of the damage, the adult pattern being reached at the latter age. As in adult animals, brain damage was most severe in structures which are part of the limbic system, i.e. the hippocampal formation, lateral septum, amygdaloid complex, claustrum, piriform cortex, etc. In addition to neuronal abnormalities, the following reactions were observed: hypertrophy and swelling of satellite oligodendroglia, proliferation of hypertrophic microglia, proliferation of astroglia and hypertrophy of endothelial cells in the capillary wall. The latter type of change, together with local coagulative necrosis, was almost exclusively restricted to the granular and molecular layers of the fascia dentata. In the hippocampal formation we found a temporal gradient of vulnerability. The earliest and most consistent neuronal alterations were largely restricted to interneurons of the hilar region and to a lesser extent to non-pyramidal neurons of strata oriens and radiatum. The severe necrotic destruction of the pyramidal layer of CA3 is conspicuous at a later age (postnatal day 30-35) and with longer survival times. Our results suggest that: (1) the neurotoxin only induces brain damage once it also causes limbic motor seizures and its associated metabolic activations, notably in the amygdala; (2) the earliest pathological sequelae occur in interneurons of the hilar region and (3) sclerosis of the vulnerable region of the Ammon's horn--the CA3 region--is only obtained once the dentate granules and their mossy fibres are fully operational, thereby reflecting the crucial role of this axonal connection in eliciting hippocampal damage.
The maturation of the seizure/brain damage syndrome produced by parenteral administration of kainate was studied in the rat. The motor, electrographic and metabolic alterations are described in the present report, the maturation of the pathological abnormalities and of the specific kainate binding sites are described in the two following companion papers. Parenteral kainate produces tonico-clonic seizures until the end of the third week of age when limbic motor signs (wet-dog shakes, facial myoclonia, paw tremor etc.) were first produced. Using the 2-deoxyglucose autoradiographic method, we found that in animals of 3 days of age and until the third week of age, kainate produced a rise in metabolism restricted to the hippocampus and lateral septum. This was paralleled by paroxysmal discharges which were recorded in the hippocampus. Starting from the end of the third week of age approximately--i.e. when the toxin produced limbic motor seizures--there was a rise of labelling in other structures which are part of or closely associated to the limbic system i.e. the amygdaloid complex, the mediodorsal and adjacent thalamic nuclei, piriform, entorhinal and rostral limbic cortices and areas of projection of the fornix. These metabolic maps are thus similar to those seen in adults. Two main conclusions can be drawn from these experiments: kainate activates the hippocampus from a very early age probably by means of specific receptors present in this structure and the limbic syndrome will only be produced by the toxin once the limbic circuitry--including in particular the amygdaloid complex--is activated by the procedure i.e. after the third week of age.
Several recent studies have reported loss of neurons in the nucleus basalis in Alzheimer's disease. However, few detailed studies of the normal distribution of these neurons in the human brain have appeared. We have used Nissl staining and acetylcholinesterase histochemical staining of the human basal forebrain, alone or in combination to identify the organization of the nucleus basalis and associated cell groups, (or collectively, the magnocellular basal nucleus) in the normal human brain. The magnocellular basal nucleus includes a series of clusters of neurons and scattered perikarya extending from the medial septum and diagonal band nucleus rostrally, through the substantia innominata to the furthest caudal extent of the globus pallidus. This distribution is similar to that which has been described in the monkey. Furthermore, acetylcholinesterase-positive fibers in the human brain are seen in the two major pathways that have been identified as carrying magnocellular basal nucleus axons to the cerebral cortex in other species. These observations suggest that the topographic organization of the magnocellular basal projection to cerebral cortex in other species probably exists in man as well. It will therefore be important in future studies of the fate of these neurons in neurological degenerative diseases to assess the loss of neurons in the different components of the magnocellular basal nucleus in relation to the clinical evidence for dysfunction in the cortical areas which they innervate.
The correlation between the retinotopic organization of receptive fields in the striate-peristriate border region and the distribution pattern of the visual callosal projections was investigated in hamsters with corpus callosum transected 2 days before recording. The results showed that in all the animals studied, the V1/V2 border defined by reversal of receptive fields at the vertical meridian was located in the dense central portion of the visual callosal projection which terminated in cortical regions bordering areas 17 and 18a. These results indicate that there is a close relationship between the striate-peristriate border determined by anatomical and physiological methods. In addition, these data strengthen the suggestion that the pattern of visual callosal projections is a useful and reliable reference system for delineating boundaries of different visual areas in the golden hamster.
We have found that Torpedo electric organ readily synthesizes prostaglandin E2 from both exogenous and endogenous arachidonate and that activation of the presynaptic muscarinic acetylcholine receptor increases the rate of prostaglandin E2 synthesis by inducing the release of tissue arachidonate from its phospholipid pools. The incorporation of radiolabeled arachidonate into tissue phospholipids is slow and Ca2+ independent. However, the electric organ slices readily oxidize the externally added, radiolabeled arachidonate via the cyclo-oxygenase pathway, with prostaglandin E2 being the major product (22 +/- 4% of the initial radioactivity). This process is not affected by either Ca2+ or mepacrine. Torpedo electric organ slices also synthesize prostaglandin E2 from endogenous substrates, and release it into the medium. This process, however, is enhanced by Ca2+ and inhibited by mepacrine. Activation of the Torpedo muscarinic acetylcholine receptor by the agonist oxotremorine results in a dose-dependent atropine-sensitive increase in the synthesis of prostaglandin E2 from endogenous tissue substrates and in the concomitant release of arachidonate into the medium. By contrast, oxotremorine has no effect on either the formation of [14C]prostaglandin E2 from exogenous arachidonate, the incorporation of radiolabeled arachidonate into tissue phospholipids or its liberation from prelabeled slices. These results suggest that activation of the muscarinic acetylcholine receptor induces lipolysis which results in the liberation of endogenous arachidonate and its subsequent conversion to prostaglandin E2.
Local blood flow, and partial pressures of oxygen and carbon dioxide were directly monitored in the vulnerable region of Ammon's horn (e.g. CA3) of unanaesthetized, freely breathing rats in which epileptic seizures of 120 min duration were induced by parenteral kainic acid. Blood flow was periodically determined by helium clearance. Partial pressures of oxygen and carbon dioxide were simultaneously and continuously measured by means of mass spectrometry, in order to determine if the neuronal damage occurring during the seizures were due to local hypoxia or if blood flow compensated the metabolic demand. During the wet shakes period, a decrease of 35% in the partial pressure of oxygen occurred, concomitant with an increase of 33% in the partial pressure of carbon dioxide and of 330% in local blood flow in Ammon's horn. During the limbic motor seizures, the partial pressure of oxygen increased progressively to twice its baseline value, while the partial pressure of carbon dioxide returned to its baseline value and blood flow underwent a six-fold increase. Thus the seizures produced by kainate do not lead to a mismatch between oxygen supply and blood flow. Our results provide direct evidence that hypoxia cannot be considered responsible for the damage produced by the seizures in CA3. It is concluded that brain damage in CA3 is due to an enhanced neuronal activity associated with the release of a toxic endogenous substance and an excessive rise of intracellular concentration of calcium.
The effect of exogenous GM1 ganglioside on selectively noradrenaline-denervated rat cerebral cortex was investigated by measuring the spatial distribution of endogenous noradrenaline levels and by fluorescence histochemical analysis. A local noradrenaline denervation was produced by intracortical infusion of the selective catecholamine neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine for 3 or 7 days. The neurotoxin infusion caused an almost complete noradrenaline denervation in a restricted area around the infusion point as reflected by an almost complete long-term disappearance of noradrenaline nerve terminals and reduction of noradrenaline levels. There was with time a slow recovery of the levels, most likely related to a spontaneous noradrenaline nerve terminal regeneration. Post-treatment for 1 week with GM1 had very small effects on the 6-hydroxydopamine-induced reduction of the noradrenaline levels, while pretreatment with GM1 for 3 days before the neurotoxin infusion and continuing the GM1 administration for another 7-14 days significantly enhanced noradrenaline recovery, as observed both bio- and histochemically. GM1 had no effect on the 6-hydroxydopamine-induced noradrenaline depletion acutely, indicating that GM1 does not interfere with the direct neurotoxic actions of 6-hydroxydopamine. The present results thus indicate that exogenous GM1 enhances regrowth of noradrenaline nerve terminals which may be due to a regrowth stimulatory effect (regeneration/collateral sprouting) and/or related to protective actions of GM1 against retrograde degeneration of noradrenaline axons following the neurotoxin-induced lesion.
The distribution of nerves containing vasoactive intestinal polypeptide(VIP)-immunoreactive material was examined in the cephalic arteries and cranial nerves of cats using an indirect immunofluorescence procedure on whole mounts. Perivascular VIP-immunoreactive nerves were widely distributed in arteries and arterioles supplying glands, muscles and mucous membranes of the face. Within the cerebral circulation, perivascular VIP-immunoreactive nerves were most abundant in the circle of Willis and the proximal portions of the major cerebral arteries and their proximal branches supplying the rostral brainstem and ventral areas of the cerebral cortex. Nerves containing VIP-immunoreactive material were absent from distal portions of arteries supplying the posterior brainstem, cerebellum and dorsal cerebral cortex. Cerebral perivascular VIP-immunoreactive nerves had extracerebral origins probably from VIP-immunoreactive perikarya within microganglia in the cavernous plexus and external rete. Extracerebral perivascular VIP-immunoreactive nerves probably arose from VIP-immunoreactive perikarya in microganglia associated with the tympanic plexus, chorda tympani, lingual nerve and Vidian nerve as well as from cells in the otic, sphenopalatine, submandibular and sublingual ganglia. Therefore, it seems likely that each major segment of the cephalic circulation is supplied by local VIP-immunoreactive neurons. If the VIP-immunoreactive nerves cause vasodilation, they are well placed to allow redistribution of arterial blood flow within the head. During heat stress, neurogenic vasodilation of the appropriate beds would permit efficient cooling of cerebral blood, particularly that supplying the rostral brainstem and surrounding areas of the cerebral cortex.
A working hypothesis is proposed based on two mutually dependent concepts: neurons may be functionally regulated not only by presently known neurotransmitters but by many kinds of informational substances. Known informational substances are considered in categories corresponding to major regulators of the central nervous system, including transmitters, peptides, hormones, &quot;factors&quot; and various proteins. Many new informational substances are being discovered by the application of DNA technology. Alongside neuronal circuitry that forms the basis for conventional neuroanatomy and neurophysiology, and that operates through conventional synaptic junctions, is a system here called parasynaptic, i.e. in &quot;parallel with&quot; synapse-linked circuitry. In the parasynaptic system, informational substances reach specific target cell receptors by diffusion from release points through extracellular fluids. The parasynaptic system has the same degree of selectivity as synaptic circuitry but possesses, in addition, a domain of versatility and plasticity lacking in &quot;hardwired&quot; circuitry; the latter is, however, also influenced by highly potent informational substances in the ambient extracellular fluid.
Tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive fibres in the rat neostriatum were studied in the electron microscope in order to determine the nature of the contacts they make with other neural elements. The larger varicose parts of such fibres contained relatively few vesicles and rarely displayed synaptic membrane specializations; however, thinner parts of axons (0.1-0.4 micron) contained many vesicles and had symmetrical membrane specializations, indicative of en passant type synapses. By far the most common postsynaptic targets of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive boutons were dendritic spines and shafts, although neuronal cell bodies and axon initial segments also received such input. Six striatonigral neurons in the ventral striatum were identified by retrograde labelling with horseradish peroxidase and their dendritic processes were revealed by Golgi impregnation using the section-Golgi procedure. The same sections were also developed to reveal tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity and so we were able to study immunoreactive boutons in contact with the Golgi-impregnated striatonigral neurons. Each of the 280 immunoreactive boutons examined in the electron microscope displayed symmetrical synaptic membrane specializations: 59% of the boutons were in synaptic contact with the dendritic spines, 35% with the dendritic shafts and 6% with the cell bodies of striatonigral neurons. The dendritic spines of striatonigral neurons that received input from immunoreactive boutons invariably also received input, usually more distally, from unstained boutons that formed asymmetrical synaptic specializations. A study of 87 spines along the dendrites of an identified striatonigral neuron showed that the most common type of synaptic input was from an individual unstained bouton making asymmetrical synaptic contact (53%), while 39% of the spines received one asymmetrical synapse and one symmetrical immunoreactive synapse. It is proposed that the spatial distribution of presumed dopaminergic terminals in synaptic contact with different parts of striatonigral neurons has important functional implications. Those synapses on the cell body and proximal dendritic shafts might mediate a relatively non-selective inhibition. In contrast, the major dopaminergic input that occurs on the necks of dendritic spines is likely to be highly selective since it could prevent the excitatory input to the same spines from reaching the dendritic shaft. One of the main functions of dopamine released from nigrostriatal fibres might thus be to alter the pattern of firing of striatal output neurons by regulating their input.
During the development of the mammalian striatum, the early-forming dopamine innervation is broken up into macroscopic patches called &quot;dopamine islands&quot;. These express high tyrosine hydroxylase-like immunoreactivity and are also rich in acetylcholinesterase activity. The mature striatum has prominent macroscopic compartments called &quot;striosomes&quot; that were first characterized by their low acetylcholinesterase activity and since have been related to heterogeneities in striatal input-output organizations. This report describes two sets of experiments designed to determine the relationship between the dopamine islands and the striosomes. The distributions of striatal tyrosine hydroxylase-like immunoreactivity and acetylcholinesterase activity were first compared in a series of kittens and young cats ranging in age from 1-228 postnatal days. During this time, the pattern of tyrosine hydroxylase-like immunoreactivity changed from islandic (patchy) to diffuse, and the pattern of acetylcholinesterase staining changed from one of acetylcholinesterase-rich patches to one of acetylcholinesterase-poor striosomes. The dopamine islands were in register with the acetylcholinesterase-poor patches at early developmental stages and at later stages the islands matched striosomes. These observations establish a correspondence between the dopamine islands and striosomes and demonstrate that the acetylcholinesterase-rich patches of the immature caudate nucleus become the acetylcholinesterase-poor striosomes of the adult. In a second set of experiments, cat fetuses were exposed to [3H]thymidine at embryonic days 22-29 in order to label the clustered subpopulations of striatal neurons known from previous experiments to lie in striosomes [Graybiel and Hickey (1982) Proc. natn. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 79, 198-202]. The [3H]thymidine-labeled brains were examined at late fetal (embryonic days 50-52), early postnatal (days 1-21) and later postnatal (days 62-199) ages. The clusters of [3H]thymidine-labeled neurons were aligned with tyrosine hydroxylase-rich, acetylcholinesterase-rich patches early in development, and with acetylcholinesterase-poor striosomes at later stages. There were marked dorsoventral differences in the intensity of tyrosine hydroxylase-like immunoreactivity in the dopamine islands and this was confirmed in neonatal rats. A &quot;dorsal islandic system&quot; was defined as having crisp, highly immunoreactive islands; ventrally, regions of low and medium tyrosine hydroxylase-like immunoreactivity formed a mosaic.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The localization and morphology of neurons, processes, and neuronal groups in the rat hypothalamus containing tyrosine hydroxylase-like immunoreactivity were studied using an antiserum to bovine tyrosine hydroxylase. This antiserum was thoroughly characterized by precipitation of enzyme activity, immunoblotting, and precipitation of cell-free translation products; a single molecular weight band was recognized by the antiserum. Absorption of the antiserum with purified tyrosine hydroxylase abolished immunocytochemical staining, while addition of bovine dopamine beta-hydroxylase had no effect on immunostaining. Immunoreactive cells were found throughout the hypothalamus. Significant numbers of cells were found in the arcuate, periventricular, dorsomedial hypothalamus/zona incerta, posterior hypothalamic regions (A11-A14), and paraventricular nucleus, as previously described, and in addition, in the preoptic area, adjacent to the anterior commissure, medial and lateral to the suprachiasmatic nucleus, dorsal to and in the supraoptic nucleus, at the lateral borders of the ventromedial nucleus, and in the dorsal and ventral lateral hypothalamus. None of the immunoreactive cell groups are totally separated from adjacent cell groups. Dendritic overlap occurs between any two adjacent groups. From cell counts of 30 micron coronal sections, we estimate the hypothalamus has about 12,000 cells based on raw counts, or 8000 immunoreactive cells after correction for possible split cells. Mean soma size varied considerably from one immunoreactive group to another. Cells in the caudal part of the dorsomedial hypothalamus/zona incerta region were the largest, with a mean diameter of 25 micron, while cells in the anterior commissural and posterior hypothalamic group were among the smallest, with mean diameters of 10 micron. The largest immunoreactive cells in the hypothalamus had volumes in excess of ten times greater than the smallest immunoreactive cells. Tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity was found in dendrites in every region of the hypothalamus, sometimes extending hundreds of micrometers from the perikaryon of origin. Although adjacent cell groups were not distinctly separated, the dendritic arbors of the different cell groups differed greatly. Dendritic and somatic appendages were found on some cells, particularly in the paraventricular nucleus. Immunoreactive dendritic arbors were particularly large in cells seen on horizontal sections through the caudal dorsomedial hypothalamic group and through the anterior hypothalamus. Only slight dendritic trees were observed in the rostral dorsomedial hypothalamus/zona incerta region, and in the pericommissural group.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

The gamma-aminobutyrate-benzodiazepine receptor complex was solubilized from the rat brain and bovine cortex and partially purified by means of gel chromatography. Analysis of binding parameters of [3H]muscimol indicates that the complex includes only one class of binding sites which presumably represent an apparently low affinity class of two classes of gamma-aminobutyrate A receptors described on the brain membranes. Analysis of the [3H] flunitrazepam specific binding also shows the presence of one class of binding sites sensitive to gamma-aminobutyrate stimulation. The concentration of muscimol binding sites in the gamma-aminobutyrate-benzodiazepine receptor complex was observed to be twice as high as the concentration of benzodiazepine binding sites.
Responses of lateral medullary neurons to microstimulation of two points in the locomotor strip--rostral and caudal to the obex--were recorded intracellularly in mesencephalic decerebellated uncurarized cats. Excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic potentials and orthodromic action potentials occurred up to 20 ms after a single stimulus. A number of cells responded to stimulation of a locomotor point by a repetitive discharge, and in some cells synaptic responses were evoked by contralateral stimulation. The responsive neurons were scattered among other cells in the lateral medullary tegmentum. At least one-third of neurons with synaptic responses to stimulation of the rostral locomotor point were antidromically invaded from the caudal one. The characteristic length of these descending axons was between 4 and 9 mm, although there were longer axons too. The lateral medullary cells which give synaptic responses to stimulation of the locomotor strip form the locomotor column located medial to the strip, and a portion of these cells send their axons to the strip. It is suggested that the activity is propagated polysynaptically along the column through axonal collaterals of its neurons. One can assume that when repetitive stimulation achieves a threshold for locomotion such as propagation occurs without decrement. As a result, spinal stepping generators are activated.
The early maturation of Purkinje cells was studied by immunocytochemistry in the rat cerebellum. The antiserum against guanosine 3':5'-phosphate-dependent protein kinase used in this study has been shown previously to label specifically all Purkinje cells in the adult rat. Immunoreactive Purkinje cells are first observed at embryonic day 17, 2 days after the end of proliferation of this neuronal population. At this time, most of the labeled cells are situated in the subventricular zone, although some immunoreactive Purkinje cells have already reached the cortex. Between embryonic day 17 and birth, four clusters of immunoreactive Purkinje cells appear in each hemicerebellum. Their time course and their pathways of migration to the cortex were followed. The immunoreactive clusters are tailed by a fibre-like immunostained material. The pattern of the migrating clusters at embryonic day 19 is very similar to the pattern of the corticonuclear projection observed at birth. From comparison between sections of embryos processed either for immunocytochemistry or Cresyl Violet staining, it appears that all the Purkinje cells are not immunoreactive. Positive and negative clusters of Purkinje cells are sharply delineated, their cells never mix. Immunopositive and negative clusters of Purkinje cells coexist until postnatal day 3. However, from birth onwards, negative clusters begin progressively in a caudorostral sequence to express guanosine 3':5'-phosphate-dependent protein kinase and rapidly attain the same level of immunoreactivity as previously labeled clusters. From postnatal day 5 all the Purkinje cells are immunoreactive. It is concluded that a compartmentalization of the cerebellar cortex is present very early and is evidenced by differences in the biochemical maturation of Purkinje cells. The axons of Purkinje cells reach the deep nuclei, following the same pathways as the clusters of Purkinje cells migrating to the cortex. Therefore, the mechanisms regulating the selection of the migratory routes followed by each Purkinje cell cluster are essential for the achievement of the topography of the corticonuclear projection. The level of protein kinase immunoreactivity cannot be taken as an index of the overall maturation of Purkinje cells, because it does not always coincide with the expression of other makers of biochemical and morphological differentiation of these neurons. During the early establishment of the cerebellar maps, an asynchrony in the expression of parts of the same genotype in the Purkinje cells may help in the establishment of ordered connections.
Substance P has been localized to the neuropil of sympathetic preganglionic neurons in light and electron microscopic studies. Two recent reports have suggested that the majority of substance P in the rat intermediolateral cell column was contained in synaptic terminals of bulbospinal axons. However, previous investigations in our laboratory indicated the presence of major substance P spinal-sympathetic preganglionic neuron circuitry in pigeon. The present study used radioimmunoassay and immunohistochemistry to examine substance P levels in rat intermediolateral cell column following various spinal lesions in order to assess the relative contributions of bulbospinal and intraspinal substance P neurons to the substance P content of the intermediolateral cell column. The results from these experiments support the existence of both bulbospinal and intraspinal substance P-containing projections to the rat intermediolateral cell column. In addition, characterization of spinal cord substance P-like immunoreactivity by combined high performance liquid chromatography and radioimmunoassay, revealed that substance P in rat intermediolateral cell column was indistinguishable from synthetic substance P. Following transection of thoracic spinal cord, substance P-immunoreactive staining was still evident in the intermediolateral cell column caudal to the lesion. These substance P-positive fibers were studded with bouton-like swellings and appeared normal. Following high cervical hemisection, depletion of substance P (radioimmunoassay measurements) was bilateral and equal in the intermediolateral cell column: 25% depletion was observed after 7 days and 35% depletion after 14 days. However, rats which were hemisected at low cervical and/or mid-thoracic levels contained normal or elevated amounts of substance P in the intermediolateral cell column. Since substance P remains in the intermediolateral cell column following total transection, substance P spinal-sympathetic preganglionic neuron circuitry must exist. Additionally, depletion of substance P following high cervical hemisection suggests the existence of a substance P-containing, bilateral bulbospinal pathway to the intermediolateral cell column. The observation that substance P levels were normal or elevated following low cervical lesions raises the possibility that intraspinal substance P neurons can compensate for loss of substance P in the spinal cord. Sprouting or altered substance P metabolism and/or release by intraspinal substance P neurons could be responsible, suggesting an important homeostatic mechanism for maintaining substance P content within the intermediolateral cell column.
The numbers of sympathetic preganglionic neurones in the upper thoracic spinal cord retrogradely labelled after application of horseradish peroxidase to the severed axons of the cervical sympathetic trunk have been determined in guinea-pigs and in cats. Neuronal counts were made on both sides of spinal segments C8 to T10 in control animals and in others in which the enzyme was applied 5-8 days after the left cervical sympathetic trunk had been transected. Labelling was not significantly different between sides of unoperated animals, but after previous cervical trunk section labelling was always less, by from 5 to 100% of that on the control side. The results were not significantly different if the application of horseradish peroxidase was made close to the original lesion or 1 cm more proximal along the nerve trunk. Analysis of the dimensions of labelled cells suggested that the deficit in labelling was greatest for small preganglionic neurones. These findings do not support an earlier report that retrograde labelling from regenerating axons is enhanced at this stage after axotomy, and the possible reasons for the discrepancy in results are discussed. It is suggested that labelling of cell bodies may not be restricted if intact axon sprouts are exposed to horseradish peroxidase. Reduced labelling from axons at the time of a second transection might, at least in part, be due to axon atrophy, emphasizing limitations to labelling when horseradish peroxidase is applied to severed axons of fine diameter. The high numbers and reproducibility of our control data enabled estimates to be made of the segmental distribution of the cell bodies or origin of the axons of the cervical sympathetic trunk in both species.
Distribution of substance P-, [Leu]enkephalin-, cholecystokinin-8-, neurotensin-, avian pancreatic polypeptide- and gamma-melanocyte stimulating hormone-like immunoreactive structures were investigated in the nucleus tractus solitarii of the rat by means of the indirect immunofluorescence method. The density of the immunoreactive structures varied markedly according to neuropeptides or subnuclei, with the medial and commissural nuclei containing the highest density. This suggests that the peptides examined play a role in cardiovascular function. However, as seen in the substance P- and [Leu]enkephalin-like immunoreactive structures, these peptides were widely distributed in the nucleus tractus solitarii in addition to the commissural and medial nuclei; a high density of immunoreactive fibers in the ventral, dorsolateral and intermediate subnuclei. In addition to the immunoreactive fiber plexus, a group of immunoreactive cells was also identified in the subnuclei mentioned above. These findings strongly suggest that substance P- and [Leu]enkephalin-like immunoreactive structures are involved not only in cardiovascular function but also in other functions such as respiration, at least in the rat. Finally, the present study demonstrated that the area postrema, particularly its lateral portion, contains various neuropeptide-like structures, both neurons and fibers, substance P-, [Leu]enkephalin-, cholecystokinin-8- and neurotensin-like immunoreactive neurons and fibers, and avian pancreatic polypeptide- and gamma-melanocyte stimulating hormone-like immunoreactive fibers.
We describe an analytical procedure for assessing functional interactions between neuronal spike trains based on the outcome of cross-correlation procedures. Subsets of a reference cell spike train in a two-train recording are extracted, based on their time-locked relationship to spikes in the dependent train. Such timing relationships comprise the significant primary structures in the cross-correlogram. Different subsets can be extracted for different primary structures in the same correlogram (i.e. a subset responsible for an interaction effect, a subset responsible for a shared input effect, etc.). These new spike trains represent an information transfer process across synapses. These 'information trains' may be compared and correlated to different cells of the network across different functional conditions such as sleep-waking states, and may also be subjected to conventional spike train analysis techniques such as rate histogram, auto-correlation and cross-correlation procedures. We illustrate the information train procedures with a network analysis of a set of cells recorded in the nucleus parabrachialis medialis during different sleep-waking states.
Peripheral neuropathy, cerebral atrophy, and intellectual impairment was investigated in 46 males with alcoholic nervous system damage. An overall correlation was found between peripheral neuropathy and cerebral atrophy and between several of the individual neurophysiological and neuroradiological variables examined. There was also a correlation between cerebral atrophy and intellectual impairment. The findings support the view that alcohol in itself is toxic to central and peripheral nervous tissues, although a dose-response dependence could not be established.
Recording sites from single unit electrophysiological studies in vitro can be precisely localized by first marking the recording locus either by depositing Fast Green dye (for micropipette studies) or electrolytic lesioning (for metal electrode studies). The slices are then fixed in paraformaldehyde, placed in sucrose and attached to a coverslip by the surface tension of water. The slices are attached to a base brain in a cryostat so that the sections can be cut at the proper angle. The slices are then stained using a Nissl staining protocol. This procedure provides intact sections from small tissue slices with the recording locus clearly demarcated.
In 1948 knowledge of the role of the central nervous system in controlling blood pressure was rudimentary and the possibility that the brain could contribute to hypertension was barely acknowledged. Over the past 35 years the development of new technologies, particularly those of the neurosciences, and their application to cardiovascular medicine have markedly increased our understanding of how the brain governs the circulation. Notable has been the increase in knowledge of the neuroanatomy, neurochemistry, and physiology of the representation, within the brain, of the pathways critical in governing blood pressure, particularly those involved in tonic and baroreflex control of the circulation. The observation that perturbations in these networks can lead to the development of hypertension or the reversal of established hypertension and the demonstration that some of these networks are targets of drugs used in the clinical treatment of hypertension provide obvious clinical relevance to the discoveries. In the future, it is expected that more will be discovered about the biochemical neuroanatomy, and hopefully the molecular biology, of these neuronal networks. Such advances will permit more rigorous testing of the proposition that defects in these systems may underlie the disorder of hypertension in human beings.






Electrophysiological sleep studies employ the simultaneous recording of multiple physiological parameters. These data are often scored and analyzed visually, i.e. by trained human scorers. In this study, we investigated the measurement error inherent in visual evaluation of respiratory disturbances during human sleep. Three trained scorers independently evaluated twenty-eight all-night sleep recordings. Results indicated that the scorers achieved high agreement on only selected variables. Scorers' experience did not affect the reliability and independent judgements of recording quality did not account for the discrepancies. These findings, although most relevant for the specific parameters studied here, as well as for these scoring criteria, subjects, and techniques, document the unreliability of certain visually scored sleep data. The present paradigm may be useful in evaluating other types of measurement error.
The fan-in projection is a computer graphical method of projecting onto a half plane the branching patterns of dendrites and axons that have already been 3-dimensionally digitized. It is suited for neurons possessing an axis of orientation (or elongation), such as cortical neurons. This axis is taken as the polar axis of a spherical coordinate system whose center is the soma. For cortical neurons, the equatorial plane corresponds to the tangential plane. Co-latitude is measured with respect to the positive polar axis. Longitude is discarded. What results is a projection in which dendrites and axons appear to be growing in a half plane whose boundary is the polar axis. The projection eliminates many of the distorting effects of depth foreshortening seen in conventional projections. In so doing it helps one to visualize branching properties that would otherwise be obscure.


In vivo protein phosphorylation was examined in postsynaptic density-enriched fractions isolated from rat brain. In vivo phosphorylation was carried out by injecting rats intraventricularly with [32P]orthophosphate followed by isolation of postsynaptic densities from pooled cerebral cortices. In vivo 32P-labeled postsynaptic densities were then fractionated by sodium dodecylsulfate-polyacrylamide slab gel electrophoresis and stained with Coomassie Blue. The protein banding pattern was typical for postsynaptic densities. The principal polypeptide component occurred in a single band at an apparent molecular weight of 51,000. Autoradiographs of the dried gels showed a major peak of radioactivity associated with the 51,000 molecular weight component for the in vivo labeled postsynaptic density fraction. Additional minor peaks of radioactivity were also observed. These results represent the first demonstration that proteins associated with the postsynaptic density readily incorporate phosphate in vivo and may represent a major and important class of synaptic phosphoproteins.
The cat's adrenal gland was perfused in situ with Krebs solution containing eserine; the amount of acetylcholine and of catecholamine released was measured. Splanchnic nerve stimulation (5 Hz for 2 min) increased the release of acetylcholine and catecholamine; the molar ratio of evoked release of catecholamine to acetylcholine was 122 +/- 8. It is suggested that this amplification is achieved because a chromaffin cell granule contains more mediator than does the acetylcholine quantum that releases it. The release per impulse of catecholamine during splanchnic nerve stimulation at 30 Hz was less than that released by stimulation at 1 or 5 Hz. This depression is attributed to a presynaptic failure, because the release of acetylcholine was similarly frequency dependent. The release of catecholamine was linearly related to the release of acetylcholine over the range tested, indicating that the input-output relationship at the splanchnic-adrenal medullary junction is linear. During continuous stimulation of the splanchnic nerve (5 Hz), catecholamine release declined to a level that was 32 +/- 2% of the initial output. This fatigue is attributed primarily to a postsynaptic depression, because the release of acetylcholine was maintained at 71 +/- 6% of its initial level. The presence of eserine in the perfusate was necessary for the release of acetylcholine to be detected, but in the presence of eserine catecholamine release was 90 +/- 10% that in the drug's absence. It is concluded that released acetylcholine is hydrolysed at some distance from its site of release and action. Glands perfused with raised K+ released acetylcholine and catecholamine.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Newborn mice were given daily injections of nerve growth factor over the gluteus muscle. At age 9 days muscles were removed and stained to reveal intramuscular axons. Motor axons, and sensory axons of the Golgi tendon organs and muscle spindles were unaffected by nerve growth factor, but there was prolific growth of the small diameter axons that ramify over the surface of the muscle. These axons were sensory rather than sympathetic, since the degenerated following dorsal root ganglionectomy but not following sympathetic ganglionectomy. This finding supports the concept that nerve growth factor is involved in the development of sensory innervation of muscle.
A comparative study of the noradrenaline storing vesicles in vas deferens from ox and rat was performed. Microsomal fractions were subjected to density gradient centrifugation. In rat, noradrenaline and dopamine beta-hydroxylase were mainly present in the upper fractions of the gradient, which is consistent with the predominance of light (small dense-core) vesicles in this species. In ox, noradrenaline, dopamine and dopamine beta-hydroxylase were found in the gradient in a bimodal distribution. This is consistent with the presence of about equal numbers of small and large dense-core vesicles in this species. On the other hand, chromogranin A, immunologically related proteins and enkephalin-like immunoreactivity were only present in the dense (large dense-core) vesicle population. In order to study the capability of light and dense vesicles to synthesize noradrenaline we &quot;pulse-labelled&quot; ox vasa deferentia with [3H]tyrosine. Already 3.5 min after the pulse both types of vesicles contained [3H]noradrenaline and [3H]dopamine. During longer &quot;chase&quot; periods the amount of [3H]dopamine gradually declined. We conclude that dense (large dense-core) vesicles contain chromogranin A, immunologically related proteins and enkephalin-like immunoreactivity whereas light (small dense-core) vesicles are devoid of these components. Both types of vesicles contain dopamine beta-hydroxylase and can synthesize noradrenaline from dopamine under in vivo conditions.
Some of the paravertebral sympathetic ganglia of the dog contain relatively large amounts of dopamine, which we have suggested previously is localized in dopaminergic neurones. However, the possibility exists that intraganglionic chromaffin-like cells may also be a source of dopamine. In order to resolve this question, we have examined the distribution of chromaffin-like cells in dog paravertebral ganglia (T7-S2) using formaldehyde-induced fluorescence of catecholamines and immunohistochemical localization of dopa decarboxylase, dopamine beta-hydroxylase and phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase. The results have been compared with levels of the different endogenous catecholamines in equivalent ganglia. Clusters of between 20 and several thousand chromaffin-like cells were randomly present in ganglia at all levels of the chain, and were most common in the more caudal segments (L4 or below); but many ganglia contained no cells. About 24,000 chromaffin-like cells were found in 18 ganglia from six animals which were stained for dopa decarboxylase and dopamine beta-hydroxylase. In 16 of these ganglia, all of the 17,000 cells present contained both enzymes, indicating that they could synthesize noradrenaline. In the remaining two ganglia, 500 out of 7000 cells contained dopa decarboxylase, and therefore were capable of synthesizing dopamine, but appeared to lack the dopamine beta-hydroxylase necessary to convert this to noradrenaline. Five ganglia from three other dogs were stained for dopamine beta-hydroxylase and phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase. A further 2600 cells were found in these ganglia and both enzymes were present in all of the cells, indicating that they could all synthesize adrenaline. Biochemical estimates of the various catecholamines showed that ganglia containing appreciable amounts of adrenaline had similar distributions to those containing chromaffin-like cells in the same animals. High concentrations of adrenaline were often correlated with high concentrations of noradrenaline but were not correlated with high concentrations of dopamine. It is concluded that paravertebral chromaffin-like cells in the dog store adrenaline, and also perhaps noradrenaline, but not dopamine. The high concentrations of dopamine found in certain ganglia cannot therefore be attributed to the presence of these cells. The erratic distribution of chromaffin-like cells suggests that they are unlikely to fulfil any general role in modulation of ganglionic transmission.
By means of autoradiography we have studied the cellular localization of binding of [3H]histamine and H1- and H2-antagonists in explant cultures of rat cerebellum, brain stem and spinal cord. In brain stem and spinal cord cultures, a relatively great number of neurones revealed binding sites for [3H]histamine and to a lesser extent also for the H1-antagonist [3H]pyrilamine and for the H2-antagonist [3H]tiotidine. In contrast, only a small number of labelled neurones was found in cerebellar cultures. The intensity of labelling was usually much stronger for [3H]histamine than for its antagonists, suggesting that binding sites for histamine might reflect both H1- and H2-receptors. Glial cells also showed binding sites for [3H]histamine and the H1- and H2-antagonists, the number of labelled astrocytes by these radioligands was, however, smaller than that observed with [3H]noradrenaline and alpha- and beta-adrenergic antagonists. It is suggested that in addition to alpha- and beta-adrenoceptors, glial cells also possess receptors for histamine.
The main projection neurones of the dorsal cochlear nucleus, termed pyramidal, bipolar or fusiform cells, have an apical dendritic arbor approaching the ependymal surface of the nucleus and a basal arbor oppositely directed. In Golgi-Del Rio-Hortega material these neurones were studied, with the light microscope, in nonconventional planes of sectioning oriented across or parallel to the main axis of the elongated nucleus. The pyramidal neurones were seen to be flattened across this axis. The size, shape and orientation of 21 cells from six blocks were studied in detail with computer-aided graphic reconstructions including stereo views. Camera lucida drawings of each cell (usually from several sections) were digitized to obtain x and y coordinates while z coordinates (depths in the tissue) were read from the fine focus knob during microscopy and typed interactively during digitization. The z values were corrected for the effects of refractive index differences in the optical system. Since it was the aim of this study to focus on some fundamental principles of structure and arrangement of pyramidal cells in the dorsal cochlear nucleus rather than on topographic variations, only the middle, regularly built part of the nucleus was examined. Towards the ends of the nucleus the architecture is less regular and will require separate analysis. Measurements of arbor and total cell height and of dendritic length are given. The height of the apical and basal arbor in individual cells showed considerable reciprocity. The total dendritic length was up to 8300 micron (average 6536 micron). The basal arbors always proved to be conspicuously flattened; roughly, the width varied between about 300 and 700 micron (average 489 micron) and the thickness between 65 and 105 micron (average 80 micron). The apical arbors were also often flattened but much less and with a greater variability than the basal arbors (average width 319 micron, thickness 115 micron). The two arbors of individual cells were practically coplanar, the arbor planes showing only moderate angularity (bend) and/or torsion relative to each other (angularity maximum 10 degrees, average 5 degrees; torsion maximum 18 degrees, average 6 degrees). The mutual orientation of cells from the same block was examined. The planes through the basal arbors proved to be very parallel, the differences in orientation angles being between 10 and 0 degrees with rare exceptions. Clearly flattened, apical arbors showed a somewhat greater spread.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The efferent and intranuclear connections of the nuclei of the descending trigeminal tract of the mallard have been studied with lesion methods, and by axonal transport techniques following injections of tritiated leucine, and of horseradish peroxidase. The large subnucleus oralis neurons, including those belonging to the nucleus of the ascending glossopharyngeal tract, have proven to be the sole origin of trigeminocerebellar connections. The cerebellar afferents are of the mossy fiber type, and terminate predominantly in lobules V, VI and VII, and possibly, lobule IV. Trigeminocerebellar projections are ipsilateral except for the vermal area. Subnucleus interpolaris is the main source of intratrigeminal fibers that terminate in subnucleus oralis and the ventral part of the main sensory nucleus. These intranuclear connections are bilateral, but the medium-celled caudal part of subnucleus interpolaris in particular contains the majority of bi- and/or contralaterally projecting neurons. Additionally, the small cells in the rostral part of subnucleus interpolaris project ipsilaterally upon the parabrachial region, and upon the lateral reticular formation. Projections upon the parabrachial region furthermore emanate bilaterally from layer I of the rostral subnucleus caudalis. A minor part of layer I neurons sends its axons contralaterally along with those of the dorsal column nuclei toward the thalamic nucleus dorsolateralis posterior. Associated with the medial lemniscus, contralateral termination is also present in the lateral part of the ventral lamella of oliva caudalis, in the marginal zone of nucleus mesencephalicus lateralis, pars dorsalis and immediately surrounding intercollicular grey and, finally, in the nucleus intercalatus thalami. Furthermore, a bilaterally descending projection from subnucleus caudalis upon layers I and II of the rostral cervical cord was observed. Close to their origin subnucleus caudalis neurons project upon the adjoining caudal part of the lateral reticular formation.
The magnocellular neurosecretory cells of the supraoptic nucleus increase production and release of oxytocin and/or vasopressin under such conditions as parturition, lactation and dehydration. These stimuli have been shown to result in increased direct apposition of neuronal membranes and the formation of double synapses (one presynaptic terminal contacting two postsynaptic elements) within the supraoptic nucleus at the level of the cell bodies. These morphological changes are due to the retraction of the thin glial processes which are normally interposed between adjacent neurons. The present study was undertaken to ascertain whether, and to what extent, neuronal/glial plasticity occurs in the dendritic zone (i.e. the ventral glial laminar area) of the supraoptic nucleus. The instances of two or more dendrites with membrane in direct apposition (dendritic bundles), the number of dendrites per bundle, the amount of dendritic membrane in direct apposition and the percentage of dendrites contacted by double synapses were quantified at the ultrastructural level in virgin female, prepartum (21 days of gestation), postpartum (day of parturition) and lactating rats. All parameters measured varied significantly with the hormone demand states created by pregnancy and lactation, apparently due to glial retraction. Moreover, in the 2-24 h period between pre- and postpartum there was a significant increase in the number of dendrites per bundle, dendritic membrane in direct apposition and the percentage of dendrites contacted by double synapses. This time course corresponds to the known increased release of oxytocin and vasopressin at parturition. These findings constitute the first demonstration that dendritic bundles and double synapses occur in the ventral glial lamina/dendritic zone of the supraoptic nucleus and vary under the physiological conditions of pregnancy, parturition and lactation.
Axons from the eyes reach the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus of the hamster at birth and both crossed and uncrossed axons spread throughout the nucleus within which they overlap extensively between postnatal days 2-6, before segregating to terminate in different parts of the nucleus by days 8-10 [So, Schneider and Frost (1978) Brain Res. 142, 343-352]. We have labelled retinal axons and their terminations between the day of birth (day 0) and day 6 by injecting one eye with horseradish peroxidase a few hours prior to sacrifice. Labelled profiles were then systematically sought, identified and their position determined, by electron microscope study of large frontal thin sections of both dorsal lateral geniculate nuclei. Labelled crossed and a few labelled uncrossed axons were present at day 0 and became progressively more common over the following few days; appropriately-located labelled uncrossed axons and terminals in the centromedial part of the nucleus (future ipsilateral sector) were relatively less common than labelled crossed axons in the ventrolateral part of the nucleus (part of the future contralateral sector), particularly between days 0 and 3. Synaptic contacts established by such labelled axons were characterized by predominantly electron-lucent spherical presynaptic vesicles and a prominent postsynaptic density. At day 4, labelled uncrossed axons made synaptic contact in the future contralateral sector (which is devoid of uncrossed input after days 8-10) and a few crossed axons made synaptic contacts in the future ipsilateral sector (devoid of crossed input after days 8-10). Such terminals and their synaptic contacts, were identical to appropriately-located ones in the same material. Inappropriately-located terminals were not found in the future contralateral sector at day 6, or in adults. No specialized contacts were observed between inappropriately-located axons or terminals and either other axon terminals or glial cell processes. Thus, during the development of the hamster retinogeniculate projection, inappropriately-located axons establish transient synaptic contacts with geniculate cells, and these contacts are lost as the segregated adult pattern of projections is established.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Unit activity of the hippocampus, the centrum-medianum-parafascicularis and medialis dorsalis nuclei of the thalamus, was recorded in chronic rats during a classical conditioning; neocortical electroencephalographic and somatic responses were also recorded. Conditioned unit responses of the different groups of neurons were compared according to the precocity of their appearance, their stability, their latency and the differentiation between the positive (reinforced) and the negative (non-reinforced) conditioned stimuli. Conditioned unit responses of type I hippocampal neurons (probably pyramids) and of neurons located in the centrum-medianum-parafascicularis nucleus did not differentiate between the positive and negative conditioned stimuli; they progressed rapidly, then declined and disappeared. They were contemporary with an initial conditioning stage which was characterized by undifferentiated arousal responses (desynchrony of electroencephalographic activity) to both conditioned stimuli. Conditioned unit responses of type II hippocampal neurons (probably granule cells or interneurons of the fascia dentata) and of neurons located in the medialis dorsalis nucleus progressed slowly and differentiated between the conditioned stimuli during a late conditioning stage which was characterized by the regression of arousal responses and the differentiation of somatic responses. These data strongly suggest that two neuronal systems, each having a different role, are involved in classical conditioning in the rat.
Edema formation and blood-brain barrier permeability was studied in animals with epileptic seizures induced by subcutaneous injection of kainic acid. Brain edema was most pronounced between 3 and 24 h after kainic acid injection. It was reflected by massive swelling of perineuronal and perivascular astroglia. Three hours after kainic acid perivascular astroglia swelling resulted in disturbance of local microcirculation in the affected brain areas. In addition, compression of drainage veins by the edematous brain induced focal perivenous hemorrhages similar to herniation damage in human brain edema. Tracer studies with sodium fluorescein, Evans blue, albumin and horseradish peroxidase revealed only a mild increase in the permeability of cerebral vessels, topographically unrelated to areas of brain edema. This finding indicates the presence of cytotoxic brain edema in kainic acid-induced epileptic brain damage. Treatment of brain edema with dexamethasone did not influence the incidence and severity of kainic acid-induced epileptic brain damage. However, in 54% of animals injected with kainic acid, lesions were completely prevented by treatment of brain edema with mannitol. The present results indicate that brain edema plays an important role in the pathogenesis of epileptic brain damage following systemic kainic acid intoxication. It is suggested that in this model of limbic epilepsy the brain edema is due to the massive ionic imbalance elicited in the affected brain regions by the kainic acid-induced persistent neuronal excitation.
Slices of various brain regions were prepared from newborn and from 7-day old rats and co-cultured in different combinations. In the majority of co-cultures of septal and hippocampal slices, acetylcholinesterase-positive fibres originating in the septal nuclei invaded the adjacent hippocampal slice. A similar pattern of hippocampal ingrowth by acetylcholinesterase-positive fibres occurred with slices prepared from the nucleus basalis of Meynert and from spinal cord. Septal neurones also projected to cortical slices, an effect which even occurred in the presence of their natural target tissue. In contrast to these massive projections to brain areas which in situ receive cholinergic inputs, no significant acetylcholinesterase-positive fibre ingrowth was observed in tissues which lack major cholinergic afferents in situ (hypothalamus, substantia nigra and cerebellum). These results indicate that under our culture conditions, acetylcholinesterase-positive fibres selectively invade cholinergic target areas. This effect is independent of the brain area from which the cholinergic neurones were derived.
The distribution of serotonin binding sites was studied in the rat hippocampal region by using contact-film autoradiography after in vitro incubations of brain sections with 5-[3H]hydroxytryptamine, [3H]spiperone, and [3H]ketanserin, respectively. Biochemical studies of the 5-[3H]hydroxytryptamine binding to sections cut through the hippocampal region showed that at saturating concentrations of 5-[3H]hydroxytryptamine (2-2.5 nM) the specific binding was at least 50% of the total. The 5-[3H]hydroxytryptamine binding sites were found to be heterogeneously distributed within the hippocampal region with the highest densities present in the following parts: layers I and II and layers IV through VI of the entorhinal area, the radial layer of the subiculum and subfield CA1 of the Ammon's horn and the molecular layer of the area dentata. Moderate to low densities of binding was observed in layer III of the entorhinal area, the pre- and parasubiculum, the stratum pyramidale of the Ammon's horn, and the granular cell layer of the area dentata. Removal of the 5-hydroxytryptamine nerve terminals by systemic injections of the 5-hydroxytryptamine neurotoxin parachloroamphetamine resulted in no detectable reductions of 5-[3H]hydroxytryptamine binding in any brain region. Lesions of hippocampal cell bodies by intrahippocampal injections of ibotenic acid prevented the binding of 5-[3H]hydroxytryptamine within the area of the cell loss. Comparisons between the distribution of 5-hydroxytryptamine immunoreactive nerve terminals and the 5-[3H]hydroxytryptamine binding sites showed that in some areas of sparse 5-hydroxytryptamine innervation the 5-[3H]hydroxytryptamine binding was close to background (e.g. the pyramidal cell layer, the stratum lucidum) whereas in areas with little 5-[3H]hydroxytryptamine binding (e.g. layer III of the lateral entorhinal area, the presubiculum) a very dense 5-hydroxytryptamine innervation was found. The hippocampal 5-[3H]hydroxytryptamine binding was displaced neither by ketanserin (1 microM) nor by spiperone (1 microM), two drugs that bind to cortical 5-hydroxytryptamine2 receptors in the rat brain. Furthermore, the pattern of hippocampal [3H]spiperone binding differed considerably from that of 5-[3H]hydroxytryptamine. The [3H]ketanserin binding in the hippocampal region did not exceed background levels, except in the hilus of area dentata in the ventral hippocampus and entorhinal layer VI at the same level, where moderate binding was found.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The effects of taurine on the uptake and release of noradrenaline were studied in forebrain slices from control rats and from rats treated with a taurine-free diet supplemented with 2-guanidinoethanesulphonate. Exogenous taurine slightly increased noradrenaline uptake in slices from untreated rats. There were no significant effects by exogenous taurine on spontaneous efflux of noradrenaline. The potassium-stimulated noradrenaline release was enhanced by taurine from frontal cortical slices and suppressed from occipital slices but only in the diet group, in which the endogenous brain taurine concentration had been lowered to one-half of the control concentration. It is suggested that taurine may act via presynaptic alpha-adrenoceptors and/or modify the availability of calcium for the stimulus-secretion coupling process.
The responses of single units in the primary visual cortex (Area 17) of anaesthetized, paralysed cats, to passive movement of the ipsilateral eye were studied. Responses to passive eye movement were found in about one-third of the cortical units isolated. Appropriate control experiments excluded visual, auditory and cutaneous inputs as the source of the effective signal during passive eye movement. The magnitudes of the responses to a number (usually four) of radial directions of passive eye movement were estimated from sets of peristimulus time histograms &quot;interleaved&quot; in time. Units were defined as &quot;radially selective&quot; if the responses to movement along one radius (e.g. vertically upwards) exceeded that along at least one other orthogonal radius (e.g. horizontal-temporal). Of 60 units tested, 53 (88%) were &quot;radially selective&quot; according to this definition. Some of the &quot;radially selective&quot; units showed an additional type of specificity to passive eye movement: (a) Some units responded preferentially to movement along one of the arcs of passive eye movement which were tested (e.g. vertical movement above the equator of the orbit). These units we have called &quot;arc selective&quot;. (b) Other units were sensitive to the direction of movement and preferred movement in a particular direction over more than one arc (e.g. horizontal movement towards the temporal side in both nasal and temporal halves of the orbit). These we have called &quot;direction selective&quot;. Twenty-one &quot;radially selective&quot; units showed one of these additional properties, nine were arc selective and twelve were direction selective. The implications of these results for the understanding of the function of orbital proprioceptive signals in the cortex are discussed briefly. Responses to passive eye movement were found in all of layers II-VI in Area 17 and the implications of this for the understanding of the pathway by which orbital proprioceptive signals reach the primary visual cortex are discussed. The experiments have shown that many units in cat visual cortex respond to passive eye movement and that most of these units have some specificity for particular radial directions of movement while some have additional specific properties. We believe that these properties of radial, directional and arc sensitivity are likely to be important in understanding the function of the orbital proprioceptive signal which arises during eye movement and they are particularly interesting in relation to the findings of others that this proprioceptive signal appears to be concerned in the normal development of visual properties in the cortex and in the control of visually guided movement in adult cats.
Interactions of acoustic and somatosensory evoked potentials were studied in the anterior suprasylvian gyrus of the cat. Two kinds of interaction could be observed: occlusion or facilitation. In most cases occlusion was observed. The interactions showed dynamic changes and were susceptible to different kinds of influences. After having determined the control values of interaction over a period of several minutes, reversible enhancement of occlusion was observed after synchronous activation of the acoustic and somatosensory inputs with 2 Hz frequency. The same effect could be observed during stimulation of the mesencephalic reticular formation with 200 Hz frequency. The interactions could also be influenced by amphetamine and gamma-glutamyltaurine, known as drugs capable of influencing the arousal level of the brain. During treatment with amphetamine the interaction was shifted in the facilitatory direction. The antagonists of amphetamine (haloperidol and reserpine) prevented this effect. The authors suggest that the interactions of acoustic and somatosensory responses are mediated by interneurons (inhibitory and/or excitatory) and particular stimulus situations and drugs are able to modify the equilibrium between excitatory and inhibitory subsystems.
The neurochemical identity of ascending putative cholinergic pathways from the rat basal forebrain was investigated employing a method for simultaneously visualizing choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity and retrogradely transported horseradish peroxidase-conjugated wheatgerm agglutinin. This histochemical procedure revealed three distinct populations of neurons: (1) cells which stained only for choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity; (2) cells which stained only for retrograde tracer and (3) cells which stained simultaneously for choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity and retrograde tracer. The results demonstrated that this projection is topographically organized and consists of both cholinergic and noncholinergic components. The relative contribution of each component varied with the telencephalic target area as follows: the olfactory bulb receives a projection from cells of the horizontal limb nucleus, 10-20% of which are cholinergic (Ch3); the hippocampal formation receives afferents from cells of the medial septal and vertical limb nuclei, 35-45% of which are cholinergic (Ch1 and Ch2); and the cortical mantle receives afferents primarily from cells within the substantia innominata-nucleus basalis complex, 80-90% of which are cholinergic (Ch4). The topographical organization of Ch4 projections is not as completely differentiated as we have previously observed in the primate.
The descending trigeminal tract and its nuclei were described in the mallard (Anas platyrhynchos L.). The borders of the system were established in Fink-Heimer preparations after unilateral lesions placed in the Gasserian ganglion using the distribution of degenerated particles as a criterion. Adjacent sections, stained with the Nissl, Kluver-Barrera and Haggqvist methods were used in the description of cyto- and fibroarchitecture of the descending trigeminal system and surrounding structures. Descending fibers of the trigeminal root could be traced from the sensory root, ventral to the main sensory nucleus, into the descending tract and its nuclei. Its fibers pass into the spinal cord, but not farther than the third cervical segment. Seven subdivisions (parts a-g) were recognized, but could be combined into four subnuclei, viz. in the terminology of Olszewski: subnucleus oralis containing parts a and b; subnucleus interpolaris parts c and d; subnucleus caudalis part f; dorsal horn part g, etc. No primary trigeminal fibers could be traced to structures outside the main sensory nucleus and nuclei of the descending trigeminal tract; all projections were ipsilateral with the exception of a slight bilateral projection caudal to the obex. Partial lesions in the Gasserian ganglion showed a distribution of the mandibular, maxillary and ophthalmic fibers from dorsal to ventral respectively in the subnuclei oralis and interpolaris, and from medial to lateral in the subnuclei caudalis and dorsal horn. Afferents from the petrosal ganglion project upon the medial part of subnucleus interpolaris and upon a small cell group (nucleus of the ascending glossopharyngeal tract) that may be functionally part of the subnucleus oralis. The subnucleus caudalis receives afferents from the jugular ganglion. These differences in afferentation are used in a tentative functional interpretation of the subdivisions of the nucleus of the descending trigeminal system.
Somatostatin and dopamine beta-hydroxylase have been localized in the coeliaco-mesenteric ganglia, in mesenteric nerves and in the wall of the guinea-pig small intestine. Nerve lesions were used to determine the sources of the nerves. Nerve cell bodies in the coeliaco-mesenteric ganglia with immunoreactivity for both somatostatin and dopamine beta-hydroxylase project to the intestine via the mesenteric nerves. Most of their terminals are in the submucous ganglia, where they make up the full complement of noradrenergic terminals, and in the mucosa where other noradrenergic terminals, not containing somatostatin immunoreactivity, are also present. The small number of noradrenergic fibres present in the tertiary component of the myenteric plexus and in the circular muscle all show immunoreactivity for somatostatin. The noradrenergic fibres supplying the mesenteric and intestinal blood vessels and those ramifying in the myenteric ganglia do not contain somatostatin. The numerous somatostatin-immunoreactive nerves in the enteric plexuses that do not contain dopamine beta-hydroxylase come from enteric nerve cell bodies. These results, considered in the context of other published work, indicate that post-ganglionic sympathetic noradrenergic neurons are chemically coded according to the target tissue they supply and suggest that neurons that were hitherto thought to be neurochemically equivalent, but which serve different functions, are in fact chemically distinct.
Detailed mapping of amino acid neurotransmitter candidates, glutamate, gamma-aminobutyrate and aspartate within the human thalamus, was performed with a grid microdissection method using two horizontal slices of the right thalamus from four neurologically normal cases. Although the fine distribution of these amino acids varied considerably from case to case, characteristic patterns of distribution for each amino acid could be demonstrated by superimposing maps of each case. Glutamate was high around a caudal part of nucleus medialis and a rostral part of nucleus pulvinaris. Interestingly enough, gamma-aminobutyrate distributed in a similar manner to glutamate, suggesting the possible interaction between glutamate and gamma-aminobutyrate in these areas of the thalamus. The distribution of aspartate was different from the former two amino acids and highly concentrated areas were patchy and scattered in the middle part of the thalamus. The results were discussed in relation to the recently accumulated evidence obtained from animal brains for neurotransmitter roles of these amino acids in the thalamus.
Homogenous mouse astrocytes in primary cultures were used to investigate the action of different Ba2+ concentrations on 42K transport, membrane potential and Na+,K+-adenosine triphosphatase activity. Five millimolar Ba2+ reduced total K+ influx and efflux (each by 83%) and ouabain-sensitive net K+ uptake (by 80%); it decreased the K+ content, depolarized the membrane potential reversibly and completely inhibited the Na+,K+-adenosine triphosphatase activity. The concentration dependence of these effects was biphasic. Concentrations between 2 and 20 microM affected only the passive K+ fluxes (IC50: 6 microM). Concentrations between 50 microM and 5 mM inhibited the Na+,K+-adenosine triphosphatase and had no further effect on passive fluxes, but inhibited the ouabain-sensitive net uptake of K+ (IC50: 3.1-0.6 mM). It is suggested that the large evoked extracellular K+ increase in the brain observed in Ba2+-treated preparations in vivo or in brain slices to a large extent is due to the impairment of passive and active K+ clearance by glial cells.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of dopamine on the function of synapses formed by cholinergic neurons derived from the rat retina. We used an experimental culture system in which rat striated muscle cells served as postsynaptic targets for cholinergic neurons of the retina. This culture system permitted the physiological monitoring of acetylcholine release at synapses formed by retinal neurons. We found that dopamine could facilitate evoked transmission at retina-muscle synapses. This facilitation by dopamine was reversible and could be blocked by haloperidol, a dopamine receptor antagonist. The adenosine 3':5'-phosphate analogue, 8-bromoadenosine 3':5'-phosphate, mimicked the facilitating effect of dopamine. In addition, dopamine elevated markedly the levels of adenosine 3':5'-phosphate in cultures of rat retinal cells. The results suggest that dopamine can regulate transmission through retinal neurons. Our findings support the hypothesis that a dopamine-induced facilitation of stimulus-evoked transmission involves the activation of dopamine receptors and the intracellular accumulation of adenosine 3':5'-phosphate.
Cortically induced postsynaptic potentials were studied in normal and axotomized cat hypoglossal motoneurons. In normal protruder motoneurons innervating tongue protruder muscles, we have demonstrated that stimulation of the orbital gyrus, at the point optimum for inducing lapping movements of the tongue by repetitive stimuli, produced inhibitory postsynaptic potentials or excitatory postsynaptic potentials followed by predominant inhibitory postsynaptic potentials. The cortically induced excitatory postsynaptic potential in normal protruder motoneurons was composed of only the short-latency component. In protruder motoneurons 30, 40, 60 and 80 days after axotomy, we have demonstrated that the number of protruder motoneurons responding with two components of excitatory postsynaptic potentials (the short- and the long-latency component) to cortical stimulation increased in correspondence with the lapse of days after axotomy and that the amplitude of cortically induced inhibitory postsynaptic potentials in axotomized protruder motoneurons was reduced in size as compared with normal protruder motoneurons.
The Ca2+ dependence of suprachiasmatic firing patterns was studied in isolated hypothalamic slices. Single neurones were first recorded in a standard artificial cerebrospinal fluid and then followed through a change to a medium in which the Ca2+ was replaced with Mg2+, Co2+ or Mn2+. These test media caused disruption of the normal, slow, regular firing patterns of suprachiasmatic neurones. Some interspike intervals were shorter and some longer than any recorded under normal conditions, for a given firing frequency. In the absence of Ca2+, these cells could not be driven to fire more regularly as they fired more rapidly during glutamate applications. In contrast, in the presence of Ca2+ more slowly and irregularly firing suprachiasmatic cells can be driven to fire regularly if their firing rate is increased. The effects of these test media were reversible. When Ca2+ was replaced with Ba2+, a bursting pattern of discharge resulted. Periods of high frequency discharge, possibly superimposed on Ba2+ spikes, alternated with periods of slow, regular firing or silence. It is concluded that Ca2+ is necessary for the maintenance of regular firing in suprachiasmatic neurones. The possibility that Ca2+ channels similar to those present in other slow, regularly firing central neurones, play an important role in suprachiasmatic activity, is discussed.
The distribution of glutamate decarboxylase and choline acetyltransferase in the accumbens area of five neurologically normal human brains was investigated. (1) For rostrocaudal distribution, frozen samples were taken by the punching method from several transverse sections (150 micron) of the accumbens area and the caudate-putamen were assayed. The glutamate decarboxylase activity was highest in the middle of the accumbens area. The choline acetyltransferase activity in the accumbens area was the same as that in the caudate-putamen at the rostral half and gradually decreased caudally, while the caudate-putaminal choline acetyltransferase remained unchanged throughout. (2) For a mapping of the distribution of both enzymes, a pair of transverse sections of the accumbens area was cut into 1 mm X 1 mm square blocks by the grid microdissection method. The glutamate decarboxylase activity was highest at the ventromedial part; the glutamate decarboxylase-rich area could be reconstructed as a confined ellipsoid zone deep in the accumbens area. The choline acetyltransferase activity was patchily distributed in the rostral half of the accumbens area. Although the demarcation of the human nucleus accumbens inferred from choline acetyltransferase and glutamate decarboxylase distribution is not precise, it is clear that the accumbens area which corresponds to the animal nucleus accumbens is separated from the remainder of the striatum.
The postnatal development of sensory C fibre function was investigated in neonatal rats aged 1-21 days. From birth, flexor-withdrawal reflexes (measured from the hamstring electromyograph) to pinching and heating the skin of the hindfoot were easily recorded under light anaesthesia and in fact were exaggerated in amplitude and duration compared to adult responses. Flexor reflexes to irritant chemicals, however, were not present until day 10-11 of life. In parallel with this late development of specific chemical sensitivity, neurogenic oedema, a C fibre-mediated inflammatory reaction, also did not occur until day 11. Substance P and fluoride-resistant acid phosphatase histochemistry were used to investigate the neurochemical development of sensory C fibres. Substance P was present in the skin, nerve, dorsal root ganglion and spinal cord from birth and fluoride-resistant acid phosphate within 12 h of birth. The adult neurochemical appearance of C-fibre terminals in the dorsal horn was established in a few days. The results show that despite the apparent early anatomical and neurochemical maturity of C fibres, physiological function is not fully established until the second week of life.
Cholecystokinin-like immunoreactivity was investigated with an indirect immunoperoxidase technique in the whole spinal cord with the light microscope and in the dorsal horn with the electron microscope. Intraparenchymal injections of colchicine were performed to allow the detection of cholecystokinin-like immunoreactive cell bodies. Rats treated at birth with capsaicin were also studied at the light microscope. Numerous cholecystokinin-like immunoreactive fibres and varicosities were found in the two superficial layers of the dorsal horn and in the intermedio-medial nucleus; cholecystokinin-like immunoreactive cell bodies were also present in these two regions. After neonatal capsaicin treatment, the number of cholecystokinin-like immunoreactive fibres and varicosities was strongly reduced in the dorsal horn. At the electron microscope level, cholecystokinin-like immunoreactivity was localized in numerous neurites often filled with vesicles (axon terminals and dendrites containing vesicles) and in few cell bodies and dendrites. The immunoreaction was found mainly associated with ribosomes, granular reticulum, neurotubules and vesicles. Large granular vesicles were filled with the reaction product whereas small and medium-sized vesicles showed a varying degree of immunoprecipitate around their membrane. In addition dense &quot;granules&quot; of precipitate were observed in numerous presynaptic neurites. Cholecystokinin-like immunoreactive axons were of small calibre and mostly unmyelinated. Cholecystokinin-like immunoreactive axon terminals made asymmetric synaptic contacts with generally unlabelled dendrites or dendritic spines. A single labelled nerve terminal could contact several different dendrites in structures resembling glomeruli. Few axo-somatic synapses but a relatively high number of axo-axonic contacts were seen. About half of these axo-axonic contacts involved pre- and postsynaptic profiles. Both light and electron microscopic observations led us to the conclusion that some of the cholecystokinin-like immunoreactive fibres of the dorsal horn originate in the spinal ganglia via capsaicin-sensitive C afferents; and some from intrinsic neurons, particularly islet cells. Other fibres may come from supraspinal centres, other local neurons or capsaicin-insensitive afferents from the spinal ganglia. The results are discussed with regard to data in the literature, particularly those concerned with the specificity of the cholecystokinin antibodies; it is hypothesized that several types of cholecystokinin-like immunoreactive peptides may be present in the dorsal horn, depending on their origin (supraspinal, intrinsic or peripheral).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The effects of activating the coeruleocortical pathway on responses of cingulate cortical cells to substance P was determined in the rat. The pathway was activated by means of small injections of glutamate, via a stereotaxically positioned cannula, directly into the locus coeruleus. Such injections greatly reduced the excitatory responses of cortical cells evoked by the iontophoretic application of substance P. Variation in the dorsal and lateral sites of injection suggested that the locus coeruleus was the important position for eliciting these effects. Depletion of cortical noradrenaline greatly reduced the ability of these injections to inhibit the substance P responses. Injections of glutamate into the locus coeruleus did not reduce cortical cell responses to acetylcholine. Parenteral administration of propranolol but not phenoxybenzamine blocked the effects of the glutamate injections on the substance P responses. These data support our previous suggestion that the central noradrenergic system may have a functional inhibitory effect on responsiveness to substance P in the cingulate cortex.


The cobalt-lysine method for tract tracing in the vertebrate CNS has been shortened and simplified to the following steps: (1) the cobalt-lysine is applied to the nerve or tract being studied; (2) the animal is perfused 1-2 days later by the following sequence of solutions: (a) phosphate-buffered ammonium sulfide, (b) phosphate buffer alone and (c) phosphate-buffered glutaraldehyde; (3) the brain is exposed to the fixative overnight and left in 30% sugar another night; (4) the brain is then frozen and cut on a cryostat; the sections being collected directly on slides; (5) the mounted sections are then put in an intensification solution before dehydration, clearing and coverslipping.

The personal computer is viewed as an all-purpose laboratory instrument and work station. Popular architectures are examined with regard to advantages and limitations, and applications discussed in terms of &quot;stand alone&quot; environments, situations requiring passive interfaces, and those employing intelligent configurations. A new hardware/software architecture is presented which is highly modular, and which supports rapid instrumental reconfiguration, high throughput (information capacity), and ease of use.


The investigation studies the perception and attitudes of patents towards their mentally retarded child. Thirty such children were followed up after one year of initial contact and the parents were interviewed. Parents of higher education had a more scientific perception. Most parents had unrealistic hopes and expectations, feelings of shame, guilt and self blame were predominant. Rejection, hostility neglect of child and other negative attitudes were significantly more often seen in younger parents, urbanites and those with higher education. The negative attitudes were more towards a child with additional psychiatric problems. This information could be of great advmuge in managing families with a retarded child.
DL- and L-alpha-aminoadipic acid (alpha-AA) are specific gliotoxins in vitro (Huck, S., F. Grass, and M. E. Hatten (1984) Neuroscience 12: 783-796). By combining immunohistochemical and autoradiographic techniques, we now show that DL-[14C]-alpha-AA is accumulated almost selectively by astrocytes in cultures of the dissociated postnatal mouse cerebellum, presumptive neurons being free of the radiolabel. High pressure liquid chromatography analysis of cultures incubated with D- or L-alpha-AA and DL-[14C]-alpha-AA autoradiograms conducted in the presence of D- or L-alpha-AA reveal a stereospecificity of astroglial L-alpha-AA uptake. Both the uptake of alpha-AA by astrocytes and alpha-AA-induced gliotoxicity were sodium dependent. Since 2 microM tetrodotoxin did not prevent the morphological changes, we conclude that sodium plays its role in alpha-AA-induced gliotoxicity by mediating the transport of the substance. Thus, alpha-AA appears to be taken up by the astrocytes before exerting its cytotoxic effect.
This article has reviewed some of the principles of the immune basis of multiple sclerosis and one potential therapy: cyclophosphamide and corticotropin. Although some of the studies with this combination present encouraging findings, these must be carefully evaluated. This approach is still experimental and the long-term effects of therapy are still to be evaluated. The neuroscience nurse has an important place in this research. Not only should the nurse be a critical consumer of the research investigating these protocols, but she must also use unique nursing skills to assist the patient while undergoing the therapy.
Electrostimulation of the nervus acusticus has been successfully used to achieve speech understanding. A model of nerve excitation due to Fitzhugh [(1961) Biophys. J. 1, 445-446] has been explored to show that the stochastic response of single acoustic mammalian fibers observed by Rose, Brugge, Anderson and Hind [(1967) J. Neurophysiol. 30, 769-793] may be due to the non-linear interaction of sub-threshold electrical nerve activity with the signal. Computations by means of an analogue computer also shows that a phase-locked response with a frequency dependence resembling behaviour observed with electrostimulation is obtained with the model. A dynamic range for single fiber excitation is produced by the non-linear interaction.
The coordinate representation of the sense of limb orientation was investigated psychophysically by asking subjects to match the orientation of the arm or of the forearm in several different coordinate representations. Movement of all degrees of freedom of one arm was permitted while movement of the other limb was restricted to the degree of freedom investigated in that particular experiment. Performance on the tasks was assessed by calculating the standard deviation of the difference in the angles of the two limbs. According to this criterion, we suggest that limb orientation is represented by the angular elevation of the limb and by the yaw angle, referred to a spatial reference frame.
By using the fluorescent dye quinacrine as a marker for the Merkel cells in the rat touch dome, we previously showed that a sustained denervation of the dome causes a rapid and persistent loss of about 60% of its Merkel cells [Nurse, Macintyre and Diamond (1984) Neuroscience 11, 521-533]. We now show that if the sensory nerves to the skin are crushed (or cut) in 2-week old pups and allowed to regenerate, the Merkel cell population within touch domes shows a biphasic response; there is an initial loss of Merkel cells associated with the early phase of denervation, followed by an increase, associated with the phase of reinnervation. Physiological tests revealed that many (though not all) domes within initially deafferented skin had become functionally reinnervated and had their Merkel cell numbers either wholly or partially restored some 40-100 days post operatively. In one case an adult reinnervated dome, that appeared normal physiologically and by its complement of quinacrine fluorescent (Merkel) cells, also had normal histological features in toluidine blue sections and normally innervated Merkel cells in the electron microscope. These results, based on the use of quinacrine to visualize the Merkel cell population in the touch dome, suggest that sensory nerves may induce the differentiation of new Merkel cells in domes where these cells have become reduced after denervation.
Cephalopod optic lobes are a well-known source of cholinergic nerve endings [Dowdall and Whittaker (1973) J. Neurochem, 20, 921-935]. In order to utilize this property for subsequent analyses of cholinergic mechanisms of transmission in the CNS, we describe the ultrastructure of the entire optic lobe of the squid (Loligo pealei) and relate the morphology of synaptosomes to the intact tissue. In the cortex, chemical junctions were found showing two basic forms. The first was an invaginated synapse, appearing only between presynaptic bags and spines which may originate from the trunks of amacrine cells of the outer granule layer. The second was that of a typical synapse, found in almost all layers except the upper portion of the first radial layer. Synapses in the medulla were predominantly of the second type, although a few photoreceptor endings extended to this region as well. The different types of terminals observed in the intact squid optic lobe corresponded to the different types of endings recognized in a synaptosome fraction derived from these lobes. Because of its high content of cholinergic endings and distinct synaptic types, the squid optic lobe may contribute to the elucidation of the mechanisms of cholinergic transmission in the central nervous system. In addition, electrotonic synapses were found between photoreceptor processes in the cortex, as well as other elements of the neuropil.
Selective retrograde labelling of the olivocerebellar climbing fiber system with D-[3H]aspartate has been observed in the rat, and the results have implications for the identification of a transmitter candidate as well as the neuroanatomical understanding of these cerebellar afferents. Microinjections of D-[3H]aspartate (50 nl, ca 10-2 M) were made into various parts of cerebellar cortex. Survival times were 6, 12 or 24 h. Pronounced diffusion of the tracer resulted in large injection sites. Within the zone of injection, glial elements were labelled over background. Most granule cells exposed to the tracer were unlabelled; the small numbers demonstrating labelling were believed to have been injured by the micropipette penetration. Beneath injection sites, large numbers of well-labelled nerve fibers appeared in the white matter and could be followed through the brainstem to the contralateral inferior olive, where labelled perikarya were found. After the inferior olivary neurons had been effectively destroyed with 3-acetylpyridine, evidence of cerebellar afferent labelling with D-[3H]aspartate was missing. Retrograde labelling of the olivocerebellar system was also observed after superfusion of the vermis with D-[3H]aspartate at concentrations in the range of Km for high affinity uptake (10(-5) or 10(-4) M, for 2 h). Mossy fiber or monoaminergic afferents to the cerebellum were never labelled with D-[3H]aspartate. The distribution of labelled cells in the olivary subnuclei after injections in different cerebellar areas was in line with the olivocerebellar organization previously described in the cat. Moreover, it was demonstrated that fibers from the different subnuclei follow different routes through the brainstem towards the cerebellum. Labelling of climbing fiber collaterals in uninjected parts of cerebellum indicated that some of the retrogradely migrating D-[3H]aspartate was directed in anterograde direction at axonal branching points. Collaterals were demonstrated in all deep cerebellar and Deiters' nuclei, and the results of intranuclear injections suggested that virtually every olivary neuron sends collaterals to these nuclei. Intracortical collaterals were organized in sagittal zones. Midline injections into the anterior lobe and VI lobule labelled collaterals in several zones of the posterior lobe spinal area and uninjected parts of the anterior lobe vermis. Hemispheral injection into copula pyramidis labelled collaterals in two prominent bundles in the anterior lobe.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The neuronal types in the ventral nucleus of the cat medial geniculate body projecting to the primary auditory cortex (AI) were investigated using the retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase. These cells were compared with the morphology of neurons as revealed in Golgi and Nissl preparations, plastic-embedded tissue, and electron microscopic material. After large injections, more than 90% of the neurons in the ventral nucleus, the principal nucleus of the lemniscal auditory pathway, were labeled, and the population of labeled cells included both large and small neuronal somata. Since the ventral nucleus contains only two varieties of cells--large neurons with bushy dendrites and an unbranched axon, and smaller cells with thin dendrites and a locally projecting axon--it is concluded that at least some of the small cells, previously believed to be interneurons, may function both as local circuit and as projection neurons. These findings were confirmed in toluidine blue-stained, 1-2 micron thick sections, and in the electron microscope, where small cells with sparse cytoplasm and a deeply invaginated nuclear envelope often contained intracellular horseradish peroxidase granules, as well as the larger neurons. Besides the small, labeled neurons in the ventral nucleus, many labeled cells were seen in the interstitial nucleus of the brachium of the inferior colliculus. This hitherto poorly characterized group of cells is embedded among the fibers of the brachium of the inferior colliculus. Many of the morphologically distinct varieties of cells in the medial division of the medial geniculate body, including small neurons, were labeled. Thus, in addition to the route embodied by the large bushy neurons which project to primary auditory cortex, at least one other pathway--represented by certain of the small cells in the ventral nucleus, reaches the primary auditory cortex.
Axon sprouting typically occurs in a brain region that has been partially denervated. The present study demonstrates, quantitatively, evidence for sprouting outside the region of deafferentation. A modification of the Timm sulfide silver histochemical method was used to monitor an increase in the mossy fiber terminal field in the fascia dentata of adult rats following severe deafferentation of the outer three-fourths of stratum moleculare by unilateral entorhinal lesions. Computer-assisted image processing techniques were used to quantify mossy fiber sprouting. In stratum granulosum, and to a lesser extent in the deep (supragranular) portion of stratum moleculare (areas separated from the zone of deafferentation), there was a three-fold increase in the area of mossy fiber staining on the side of the lesion compared to the non-operated side (and unoperated animals). Much of the increased staining was located near the tip of the infrapyramidal (ventral) blade of the fascia dentata. Since mossy fiber sprouting apparently occurs in the absence of degeneration-produced synaptic dilution in that region, it may represent an example of post-lesion growth initiated by conditions fundamentally different from those normally believed to induce sprouting.
In the freely moving rat, the kinetics of Ca2+ ion activity were determined at circumscribed sites in the hippocampus, which was perfused with ethanol, tertiary-butyl alcohol or acetaldehyde. Initially, a region in CA1 or other cell field of the dorsal hippocampus was prelabelled by microinjection of 45Ca2+ through a permanently implanted guide tube. Then the tip of a concentric push-pull cannula assembly was lowered through the guide tube to the labelled site, and an isotonic artificial cerebrospinal fluid was repeatedly perfused at a rate of 25 microliter/min. Each perfusion was timed for 5.0 min with a 5.0 min interval between each. Once the washout curve of 45Ca2+ activity had begun to approach its asymptote, ordinarily in the midpoint of a series of perfusions, an isotonic solution of ethanol (188-942 mM), tertiary-butyl alcohol (12-580 mM) or acetaldehyde (10-98 mM) was added to the fourth perfusate. Thereafter, the hippocampal site was again perfused with the normal cerebrospinal fluid for the remainder of the experiment. Although the lowest concentration of ethanol exerted no effect on 45Ca2+ ion activity, an intermediate concentration caused mixed effects in either enhancing or suppressing the efflux into the perfusate of this cation. The highest concentration of ethanol produced in most experiments an initial suppression in Ca2+ ion efflux which was followed frequently by an elevation in the release of 45Ca2+. Similar changes in Ca2+ ion activity were produced by tertiary-butyl alcohol, but the magnitude of its effect was generally less than that of ethanol, suggesting that its effect on brain tissue differs from that of ethanol. Acetaldehyde evoked an intense and concentration-dependent enhancement of Ca2+ ion efflux from the perfused tissue at all of the sites in the hippocampus examined. These results suggest that in the unrestrained rat ethanol could unbind Ca2+ ions from hippocampal membranes or retard their uptake into cells of the hippocampus. The dual excitatory and inhibitory effect of ethanol on Ca2+ ion activity corresponds to the electrophysiological effects of this alcohol and could alter neurotransmitter release from neurons in this subcortical structure. The mechanism of action of acetaldehyde is envisaged to be due to its affinity to membrane sulfhydryl groups which alters protein conformation and thus interferes with both Ca2+ channels and Ca2+ binding properties.
Cholinergic neurons intrinsic to rat cortex were studied using a sensitive method for the localization of choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity, acetylcholinesterase histochemistry, combined localization of choline acetyltransferase and acetylcholinesterase, and combined localization of choline acetyltransferase and retrogradely transported horseradish peroxidase-wheat germ agglutinin. Choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity was localized predominantly in small bipolar cortical neurons within the upper layers of isocortex, while small multipolar neurons were the predominantly stained cell type in allocortical regions. Acetylcholinesterase histochemistry demonstrated mainly small polymorphic cells scattered throughout all cellular layers in all cortices. Combined staining for choline acetyltransferase and acetylcholinesterase resulted in localization of the markers in different cell populations; choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive neurons did not contain detectable acetylcholinesterase and acetylcholinesterase-positive neurons did not contain detectable immunoreactivity to choline acetyltransferase. Some possible connections of the cortical choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive cells were studied in rats which had received injections of horseradish peroxidase-wheat germ agglutinin into either cortex or brainstem. The choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive cells were frequently admixed with cells labeled with the retrograde marker; however, no double-labeled cells were observed. It was concluded that cortical cholinergic cells are not visualized by acetylcholinesterase histochemistry, and are likely to be involved in local circuitry.
The localization and distribution of somatostatin (growth hormone release-inhibiting hormone; somatotropin release-inhibiting factor) have been studied with the indirect immunofluorescence technique of Coons and collaborators and the immunoperoxidase method of Sternberger and coworkers using specific and well-characterized antibodies to somatostatin, providing semiquantitative, detailed maps of somatostatin-immunoreactive cell profiles and fibers. Our results demonstrate a widespread occurrence of somatostatin-positive nerve cell bodies and fibers throughout the central nervous system of adult, normal or colchicine-treated, albino rats. The somatostatin cell bodies varied in size from below 10 micron up to 40 micron in diameter and could have only a few or multiple processes. Dense populations of cell somata were present in many major areas including neocortex, piriform cortex, hippocampus, amygdaloid complex, nucleus caudatus, nucleus accumbens, anterior periventricular hypothalamic area, ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus, nucleus arcuatus, medial to and within the lateral lemniscus, pontine reticular nuclei, nucleus cochlearis dorsalis and immediately dorsal to the nucleus tractus solitarii. Extensive networks of nerve fibers of varying densities were also found in most areas and nuclei of the central nervous system. Both varicose fibers as well as dot- or &quot;dust-like&quot; structures were seen. Areas with dense or very dense networks included nucleus accumbens, nucleus caudatus, nucleus amygdaloideus centralis, most parts of the hypothalamus, nucleus parabrachialis, nucleus tractus solitarii, nucleus ambiguus, nucleus tractus spinalis nervi trigemini and the dorsal horn of the spinal cord. One exception is the cerebellum which only contained few somatostatin-positive cell bodies and nerve fibers. It should be noted that somatostatin-positive cell bodies and fibers did not always conform to the boundaries of the classical neuroanatomical nuclei, but could often be found in areas between these well-established nuclei or occupying, in varying concentrations, only parts of such nuclei. It was difficult to identify with certainty somatostatin-immunoreactive axons in the animals studied. Some pathways could, however, be demonstrated, but further experimental studies are necessary to elucidate the exact projections of the somatostatin-immunoreactive neurons in the rat central nervous system.
Structure-activity relations of dipeptides related to gamma-D-glutamylglycine have been investigated with respect to the ability of these substances to antagonize depolarizing responses of frog motoneurones in vitro to N-methyl-D-aspartate, kainate and quisqualate. A terminal phosphono group was optimal for N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist activity in relation to both potency and selectivity. Substances containing a terminal phosphono group were relatively poor antagonists of kainate or quisqualate responses. Terminal carboxylic and sulphonic groups were both effective with respect to kainate and/or quisqualate antagonism. Sulphonic compounds were the more selective in this type of action because of their low affinity for N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. Optimum chain length for N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonism was between one and two carbon atoms shorter than for optimum kainate/quisqualate antagonist activity. Bulky groups within the N-acylated amino acid moiety generally, but differentially, reduced the ability of the substance to antagonize responses to each of the three agonists. Glutamyl peptides were generally more effective than aspartyl peptides of the same overall chain length. However, the most potent dipeptide (selective for N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonism) was the aspartyl derivative, beta-D-aspartylaminomethyl phosphonate, for which there was no glutamyl equivalent. Other useful substances to emerge from this study include the relatively selective kainate/quisqualate antagonists, gamma-D-glutamylaminomethyl sulphonate and gamma-D-glutamyltaurine. If similar selectivity is shown in other preparations also, these substances may prove preferable to gamma-D-glutamylglycine as antagonists of synaptic excitation mediated by kainate or quisqualate receptors.
The enzyme for the synthesis of epinephrine, phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase, has been localized, by an indirect immunofluorescent staining method, to a subpopulation of amacrine cells in the rat retina. The immunoreactive cells are located primarily in the inner nuclear layer and send a single process to the inner plexiform layer. Most of the immunoreactivity is found in the center of the inner plexiform layer. A small percentage of immunoreactive cell bodies were found in the inner plexiform layer and occasionally cells were observed in the ganglion cell layer. These epinephrine-containing amacrine cells are morphologically distinct from the dopamine-containing amacrine cells previously described by formaldehyde fluorescence and we speculate from reports in the literature that epinephrine-containing amacrine cells may play a role in modulating the activity of dopamine-containing amacrine cells.
A highly sensitive, recently developed immunohistological method is introduced in the present study with special emphasis on the luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone system of the rat brain. The method utilizes the specific capability of the diaminobenzidine endproduct, a frequently used chromogen in immunocytochemistry, to produce and bind silver grains from a special physical developer, following suppression of the argyrophilia of the nervous tissue by thioglycolic acid. Metal deposition into the immunolabelled structures results in a real Golgi-like appearance of immunoreactive profiles. Specificity of this silver method was confirmed by ultrastructural analysis, which showed that unlabelled elements did not bind silver. Using this method, more immunoreactive neurons and fibres were visualized than compared with the results of the traditional peroxidase-antiperoxidase method. The luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone-synthesizing neurons proved to be fusiform, exhibiting either smooth or rough surfaced contour. Unlabelled terminals established axo-somatic synapses on labelled perikarya. The juxtaposition of immunoreactive luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone profiles suggest the possibility of self-regulation within the luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone system. The main advantages of the method are the increased sensitivity with preserved selectivity and wide applicability in different fields of neuroscience (peptide and transmitter immunocytochemistry, double labelling, horseradish peroxidase tract tracing, X-ray analysis).
The dopaminergic innervation of the rat lateral septum has been investigated at ultrastructural level by immunocytochemistry using the unlabelled peroxidase-anti-peroxidase method with anti-dopamine antibodies. The specificity of the reaction has been carefully checked by immunological and histochemical controls. A strong immunoreaction was observed in fibres of the lateral septum as well as in their cells of origin in the ventral tegmental area. In the lateral septum, dopamine-immunoreactive fibres were localized in two distinct areas. A first area, located ventrally in the anterior part of the septum was characterized by a high density of immunoreactive varicosities with barely visible intervaricose segments. A more dorsal area, extending throughout the anteroposterior region of the septum, was characterized by immunoreactive fibres in pericellular arrangements. Electron microscopic observations revealed no difference in the ultrastructure of dopamine-immunoreactive profiles in the different areas. Reaction product was found in vesicles, linked to microtubules and in the cytoplasm. Three types of vesicles were seen: (i) small vesicles (30-50 nm) with varying intensity of immunoreaction, filling up the varicosities; (ii) rare large clear vesicles (50-80 nm) with no internal immunoreaction; (iii) very rare large dense vesicles (50-100 nm) with a strong dopamine immunoreactivity. Labelled profiles were observed in clearly defined asymmetrical synaptic contacts with somata and dendrites. Due to the lack of previous work dealing with the use of anti-dopamine antibodies for electron microscope immunocytochemistry, our observations are compared to previous data obtained by more indirect labelling techniques.
The possibilities were analysed to combine the 2-deoxyglucose technique and indirect immunofluorescence histochemistry using tyrosine hydroxylase antiserum, with the aim to study functional activity in immunohistochemically characterized single neurons. Since the product measured with the 2-deoxyglucose method is water soluble and since immunohistochemistry requires that sections repeatedly run through aqueous media, the 2-deoxyglucose method was carried out before fixation and immunohistochemistry. The routine rapid thaw-mounting at + 60 degrees C of sections for 2-deoxyglucose autoradiography was found not to be compatible with immunohistochemistry. Instead a new mounting technique based on &quot;gluing&quot; the sections on to the object slide with a mixture of a standard mounting medium (Permount) and xylene was used to avoid diffusion at this stage. Two procedures were outlined, both starting with unfixed brains cut on a cryostat. In Method I autoradiographic sheet film was used. After autoradiographic exposure, the section was immersion-fixed in formalin, processed for immunohistochemistry, analysed and photographed in a fluorescence microscope and the results compared with the autoradiographic distribution patterns on the film. However, only the low resolution of the routine 2-deoxyglucose technique was obtained, which did not allow analysis of activity in single cells. In Method II, liquid emulsion applied by the loop technique was used. After exposure, autoradiographic developing and fixation, dehydration, mounting, analysis and photography of autoradiographs in the light microscope, the cover-slip was removed, the sections rehydrated and processed for indirect immunofluorescence histochemistry. With this procedure single autoradiographically labeled cells were observed, some of which contained tyrosine hydroxylase. Thus, with Method II it may in the future be possible to monitor functional activity in single immunohistochemically identified neuronal cell bodies. In order to obtain a useful and reliable method for this purpose, however, further extensive work with regard to, for example, quantification will be required.
Antibodies to tyrosine hydroxylase were used to study the distribution of nerve cells, fibers and terminals, containing catecholamines, in the lizard Varanus exanthematicus, by means of the indirect immunofluorescence technique. Tyrosine hydroxylase-containing cell bodies occurred in the hypothalamus, the ventral and dorsal tegmentum mesencephali, the substantia nigra, the isthmic reticular formation, in and ventrolaterally to the locus coeruleus, in the nucleus tractus solitarii and in a lateral part of the nucleus reticularis inferior. In addition tyrosine hydroxylase-containing cell bodies were found throughout the spinal cord, ventral to the central canal. Tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive terminal areas in the brain stem were seen in the nucleus interstitialis of the fasciculus longitudinalis medialis, the nucleus raphes superior, the locus coeruleus, several parts of the reticular formation and the nucleus descendens nervi trigemini. Ascending catecholaminergic pathways could be traced from the ventral mesencephalic tegmentum as well as from the dorsal isthmic tegmentum rostralwards, through the lateral hypothalamus. These pathways correspond to the mesostriatal and isthmocortical projections respectively, as described in mammals. Furthermore, ascending catecholaminergic fibers could be traced from the catecholaminergic cell groups in the medulla oblongata to the isthmus, where they intermingle with the locus coeruleus neurons. These pathways correspond to the medullohypothalamic projection and to the dorsal periventricular system in mammals. Descending catecholaminergic fibers to the spinal cord pass via the dorsomedial part of the lateral funiculus, and mainly terminate in the dorsal horn. The results obtained in the present study have been placed in a comparative perspective, which illustrates the constancy of catecholaminergic innervation throughout phylogeny.
The distribution of vasopressin-, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-, somatostatin-, avian pancreatic polypeptide-, 5-hydroxytryptamine- and glutamic acid decarboxylase-like immunoreactivity was analyzed in the suprachiasmatic nuclei of male and female golden hamsters. Vasopressin. Vasopressin-like immunoreactivity is localized within neurons, dendrites and axons throughout the rostrocaudal extent of the suprachiasmatic nuclei. Immunoreactive perikarya are restricted to the dorsomedial aspect of each nucleus and occur in highest numbers within the intermediate two-thirds of the rostrocaudal axis. Axons containing vasopressin-like immunoreactivity form a dense plexus in the dorsomedial suprachiasmatic nuclei and in a vertical column at the lateral aspect of each nucleus. Somatostatin. Somatostatin-like immunoreactivity is also contained in neurons in the dorsomedial aspect of the suprachiasmatic nuclei and in thin varicose axons distributed throughout the suprachiasmatic nuclei in a pattern similar to that of vasopressin-immunoreactive axons. Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide. Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-immunoreactive neurons are concentrated in the ventrolateral portion of each nucleus and occur almost exclusively within the intermediate two-thirds of the rostrocaudal axis. An extremely dense plexus of varicose axons exhibiting vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-like immunoreactivity extends throughout the suprachiasmatic nuclei and passes out of the dorsal aspect of each nucleus into the periventricular and anterior hypothalamic areas. Avian pancreatic polypeptide. Avian pancreatic polypeptide-like immunoreactivity is restricted to axons which arborize within the ventrolateral aspect of each nucleus. These fibers extend throughout the rostrocaudal extent of each nucleus and partially overlap the terminal field of retinal afferents. Glutamic acid decarboxylase. A very dense plexus of axonal varicosities exhibiting glutamic acid decarboxylase-like immunoreactivity fills both the dorsomedial and ventrolateral portions of the suprachiasmatic nuclei throughout the rostrocaudal extent of each nucleus. Lightly stained immunoreactive perikarya also occur throughout the suprachiasmatic nuclei. 5-Hydroxytryptamine. 5-Hydroxytryptamine-like immunoreactivity is restricted to axons which form a plexus in the ventromedial portion of each nucleus that is most dense in the intermediate two-thirds of the rostrocaudal axis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
In the unanesthetized rat, the effect of ethanol or morphine on the new synthesis of six amino acids, gamma-aminobutyrate, glutamate, alanine, aspartate, glycine and glutamine, was determined at circumscribed sites in the hippocampus. In the fasted animal, 5.0 microCi of [U-14C]glucose was microinjected in a volume of 1.0 microliter into a discrete region of the hippocampus through a permanently implanted guide tube. After 10-15 min, the tip of a concentric push-pull cannula assembly was lowered through the guide tube to the labelled site, and an isotonic artificial cerebrospinal fluid was continuously perfused at a rate of 25 microliters/min. Samples of perfusate were collected every 5.0 min in a total volume of 125 microliters. During the fourth perfusion, either ethanol (94 or 471 mM) or morphine (0.1 or 1.0 microgram/microliter) was added to the push-pull perfusate. Amino acids and glucose contained in each sample of perfusate were separated by means of a two-dimensional, thin-layer chromatographic procedure. The results show that the 94 mM dose of ethanol acted only to significantly suppress the new synthesis of alanine. Conversely, the higher 471 mM dose of ethanol significantly increased the new synthesis of both glycine and glutamine from the glucose precursor. The effect of the 0.1 microgram/microliter morphine dose on amino acid synthesis paralleled that of the lower dose of ethanol since it evoked a similar decrease in the synthesis of alanine; however, the higher dose of 1.0 microgram/microliter morphine produced no effect. None of the other amino acids in the hippocampus were affected by either of the CNS depressants. Thus, whereas ethanol seems to exert significant stimulating activity on hippocampal synthesis of glycine and glutamine, morphine and ethanol possess the same inhibitory effect on alanine synthesis in this subcortical structure.
A pharmacohistochemical method for gamma-aminobutyric acid transaminase, the key enzyme for gamma-aminobutyric acid metabolism, has been combined with retrograde tracing by horseradish peroxidase, to a study of projections from the midbrain to the superior colliculus. The results indicate projections from the substantia nigra zona reticulata, the zona incerta and the reticular formation of the mesencephalon which are exclusively from neurons staining intensely for gamma-aminobutyric acid transaminase and presumptively gamma-aminobutyric acid as their transmitter. The projection from the ventral lateral geniculate body to the superior colliculus, on the other hand, comes from cells which do not stain for gamma-aminobutyric acid transaminase and therefore do probably not use gamma-aminobutyric acid as their transmitter.
We describe a previously uncharacterised glycoprotein antigen of rat brain. The antigen was localised by immunofluorescence on 10 micron cryostat tissue sections, and was found to be present intracellularly in neurons. No other cell types or structures within the brain were stained. The antigen is recognised by a mouse monoclonal antibody called NGP41. The antibody was produced after immunising a mouse with glycoproteins purified by lentil lectin affinity chromatography of solubilised rat brain membranes. Spleen cells from the immunised mouse were fused with the myeloma P3X63Ag8. The antigen is expressed by neurons in all brain regions, and also in the dorsal root ganglion neurons of the peripheral nervous system. In all brain regions, the large projection neurons are the most intensely stained by immunofluorescence, but some small neurons also express the antigen. Although dendrites were not stained, sections of sciatic nerve were stained by NGP41, suggesting that the antigen is expressed by axonal processes. The cell bodies of neurons in the inferior olive were stained by NGP41, but their terminals on Purkinje cell dendrites in the cerebellar cortex were not stained, suggesting that the antigen is absent or expressed below the limit of detection in terminals. Both crude brain membranes and a lentil lectin affinity purified brain glycoprotein fraction absorbed the antibody, suggesting that the antigen is a membrane bound glycoprotein. In immunoblotting experiments, the antigen was detected in homogenates of brain and spinal cord membranes, where it appeared as a triplet of bands with molecular weights of 41K, 38K and 36K. Antigen was not detected by immunoblotting in homogenates of six different tissues of non-nervous origin. The antigen was enriched in glycoprotein fractions from adult and juvenile cerebellum as assessed by immunoblotting. Adult brain glycoprotein preparations had a triplet structure similar to that in the homogenates, although most of the antigenic activity of the juvenile preparation was found in a position corresponding to the upper two bands of the triplet.





Experimental data obtained in embryophysiological studies of D. A. Biriukov's school are described as well as the theoretical conclusions drawn from the analysis of early ontogenesis' regularities. Findings recently obtained by D. A. Biriukov's disciples are presented as well as their the oretical interpretation developing further the main lines of embryophysiological study of the organism's functions evolution.
Brown-Squard's career as Harvard's first professor of the physiology and pathology of the nervous system is chronicled in a unique and previously unpublished series of his private letters and university archival material. At Harvard, Brown-Squard tried to modernize the curriculum by adding laboratory exercises and animal experiments in the teaching of physiology. He dreamed of constructing a great physiologic institute to study fundamental problems in neurology, including epilepsy, paralysis, muscular atrophy, nerve injuries, and a wide variety of other problems. His letters reveal Brown-Squard as a disarmingly &quot;modern&quot; professor who avoided faculty meetings, complained constantly about lecture schedules, his salary, and the improper care of his animals--and threatened to resign regularly!
The sympathetic innervation of the rat pineal gland was examined using a variety of anatomical techniques. Following the injection of horseradish peroxidase into the pineal gland, approximately 250 labeled neurons were found in the ipsilateral superior cervical ganglion. No labeled neurons were found in the middle or inferior cervical ganglia. In animals whose left internal carotid nerve was lesioned prior to the injection of peroxidase, an average of only three labeled neurons was found in the ipsilateral superior cervical ganglion. These data suggest that most, if not all, of the sympathetic neurons innervating the pineal gland exit from the superior cervical ganglia via the internal carotid nerves. The distribution of sympathetic neurons innervating the pineal gland was similar, though slightly more rostrally placed, than the distribution of the entire population of superior cervical ganglion neurons which project into the internal carotid nerve. Both the small number of neurons innervating the pineal gland and their wide distribution in the rostral part of the superior cervical ganglion indicate that their study at the level of the ganglion would be difficult. Sympathetic axons reach the pineal gland via the nervi conarii. Electron microscopic studies indicate that in each nervus conarii there are about 440 axons which make contact with the surface of the pineal gland. In certain cases, bundles of axons from the left and right nervi conarii were found to fuse. Additional evidence for the intermingling of axons from the two nervi conarii was seen in orthograde transport studies with horseradish peroxidase.
Intense activation of central dopamine systems has been associated with oral stereotyped behaviour, whereas less intense stimulation of these systems can increase feeding in non-deprived animals. There are several lines of evidence which suggest that the gamma-aminobutyric acid-containing striatonigral and nigrotectal projections are essential pathways mediating dopamine-related oral stereotypy. The present series of experiments was conducted to examine whether the same output route also mediates dopamine-related feeding. In the first experiment it was shown that bilateral injections of a sub-stereotypic dose of muscimol (0.05 nM) into the substantia nigra increased feeding of non-deprived rats. In Experiment II the feeding response was further characterised by demonstrating that food intake was initially suppressed for 30 min after which it was potentiated for 90 min. In Experiment III it was shown that a single dose of haloperidol (0.4 mg/kg), which was adequate to suppress overall food intake, was ineffective in preventing the increase in feeding produced by intranigral muscimol (0.05 nM). In contrast, it was demonstrated in Experiment IV that large lesions of the superior colliculus completely abolished the muscimol-induced increase in feeding. These results suggest that the striatonigral and nigrotectal projections may be important efferent pathways for both the oral stereotypy and the feeding responses linked with central dopamine transmission.
To determine how cerebellar activity influences motor co-ordination, a simple motor act of an electric fish, Eigenmannia spp, was studied. Whenever the fish encounters an object of conductivity different from water, it bends the caudal two-thirds of its body towards the object. This behavior, called &quot;probing&quot;, was analysed in the normal fish and in fish with a small cerebellar lesion. Probing could be described as a wave travelling along the body very similar to what one observes when shaking a rope of moderate elasticity. In normal fish, the wave starts at the tipe of the tail and proceeds towards the head, dying out after about two-thirds of the body length. A lesion in the corpus cerebelli causes this wave to start at the head and move towards the tail, though it is otherwise the same as in normal fish, i.e. it has the same frequency components as revealed by Fourier analysis. In addition to the change in probing, the lesioned fish also undulates its body while swimming whereas it is normally kept straight. This undulating wave turns out to be the same as that during probing where it is executed whilst the fish keeps itself on the spot with its locomotory apparatus, the anal fin, which is driven by muscles independent of the trunk muscles used for probing.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Sensory representation in the catfish cerebellum was studied with physiological stimuli, with electric shocks applied to peripheral nerves and with electric shocks to central structures of the brain. Evoked field potentials and unit responses were recorded in different places in the cerebellum. In the catfish, different sensory modalities are represented by discrete, only partly overlapping areas of the cerebellum. Most units are unimodal by present criteria; only in the valvula a fraction of the units are responsive to two or more modalities. Visual and somatosensory areas are the largest and they occupy the bulk of the corpus cerebelli and the valvula. In the corpus, most of the visual units are near the midline and in the dorsal tier while the somatosensory units are more lateral and ventral. Mechanical lateral line input is represented in the eminentia granularis and the valvula. Acoustic units are found in the valvula. Electroreceptive units are recorded from the lateral lobus caudalis, and to a lesser degree, from the eminentia granularis and valvula. Sinusoidal tilting and vibration units are in the lobus caudalis pars medialis. Receptive fields of units, regardless of modality, are generally large and diffuse. Some visual units respond best to moving objects. Topographical organization of receptive fields only exists among the somatosensory units. Besides these findings of modality segregation, the features of interest for comparative neurology are the following. Most units are identifiable as Purkinje cells with a characteristic mossy fiber-granular cell pattern, and but in contrast to most experience with mammals, in response to direct brain or nerve stimulations, the simple spikes have different dynamic responses for different modalities. Some are first excited, then inhibited, others vice versa. Some units are not responsive to any sensory input we delivered. Some units not meeting the criteria for Purkinje cells meet several criteria for eurydendroid cells; they give large spikes and are influenced by sensory stimuli after relative long latencies. Complex spikes, however, were only consistently observed in some of the visual units.
Intracellular recordings were made from neurones in the locus coeruleus contained within a slice cut from rat pons and maintained in vitro. Most neurones fired action potentials spontaneously at frequencies of between 1 and 5 Hz; this did not arise from spontaneous synaptic input but appeared to result from endogenous properties of the membrane conductances. Under voltage clamp at potentials near threshold for action potential generation (-55 mV) there was a persistent inward calcium current. This current became less with membrane hyperpolarization and was abolished at about -70 mV. Two potassium currents were observed. The first had properties similar to that generally described as the &quot;fast&quot; potassium current (IK,A); it flowed transiently (for about 200 ms) when the membrane potential passed from about -65 to -45 mV, and was blocked by 4-aminopyridine. The second was a calcium-activated potassium current (IK,Ca); it flowed for several seconds following a burst of calcium action potentials. Spontaneous and evoked action potentials had both tetrodotoxin-sensitive and tetrodotoxin-resistant components. The latter was apparently due to calcium entry. The potential changes occurring during the spontaneous firing of locus coeruleus neurones could be reconstructed qualitatively from the ionic conductances observed. The membrane properties of the locus coeruleus neurones were remarkably uniform; however, about 5% of cells impaled within the region of the locus coeruleus were electrophysiologically distinct. These atypical cells had short duration action potentials, did not fire spontaneously and had large spontaneous depolarizing synaptic potentials.
We have devised a method for the isolation of viable neuronal growth cones from neonatal rat forebrain. The method involves differential and density gradient centrifugation and exploits the relatively low buoyant density (approximately 1.018 g/cm3) of growth cones. There are no known biochemical markers for growth cones and it was necessary therefore to monitor for their presence during the isolation using transmission electron microscopy. Several criteria were used to identify isolated growth cones including the presence of filopodia, an extensive system of branching, tubular smooth endoplasmic reticulum and a region rich in microfilaments subjacent to the plasma membrane. These morphological features are similar to those of growth cones identified unequivocally in intact developing brain and in tissue culture. Electron microscopical analysis showed that greater than 90% of membrane-bound, identifiable objects in one fraction were growth cones by these criteria. The major contaminant consisted of membrane sacs and vesicles of unidentified origin. There were only small amounts of isolated rough endoplasmic reticulum and mitochondria. Isolated growth cones were roughly spherical in shape with a diameter of 1.9 +/- 0.5 micron (mean +/- 1 SD). They usually contained mitochondria, large granular vesicles and small vesicles, and occasionally contained coated vesicles, lysosomes, lamellar bodies and multivesicular bodies, and only very rarely, intermediate filaments. Occasionally, growth cones had rudimentary synapses on them. The viability of isolated growth cones was investigated by observing their behaviour in short-term culture. After a few hours in culture on poly-D-lysine-coated coverslips, growth cones flattened down and extended filopodia-like processes. This behaviour was inhibited by cytochalasin B and reversibly by cold (4 degrees C). We conclude that physiologically active growth cones can be isolated rapidly and in large numbers by the method described here.
Mediobasal hypothalami of adult rats were superfused in vitro. A single 5 min pulse of 60 mM KCl-containing medium was infused, followed by either 15, 30, 45, 60 or 75 min superfusions with standard medium. In some experiments, 5 or 10% dextran was added followed by a 15 min recovery. Morphologically, two recovery phases were recognized. The early phase (15-30 min) was characterized by two features: (1) A clear-cut increase in the quantity of large, pleomorphic vacuoles occupying the axoplasm of nerve endings; these vacuoles were observed to be connected to caveolae of the same diameter in the axolemma and they were either coated or uncoated. (2) Progressive increase in the quantity of microvesicles (synaptic vesicles) from an initial depleted state. The vacuoles were found to contain dextran aggregates. Microvesicle-like protrusions bulged from the membrane of vacuoles. The late phase, from 45 min poststimulation onward, was typically identified after the appearance of tubules of smooth endoplasmic reticulum at the most distal segments of the nerve terminals. During this period, large vacuoles tended to decrease in quantity. Granular vesicles remained scant during the entire observation period. Images suggesting formation of microvesicles from tubules of smooth endoplasmic reticulum were observed. These results open the possibility that endocytosis of patches of membranes forming large vacuoles be an important mechanism for retrieving the membranes belonging to microvesicles and granular vesicles. Some of these large vacuoles may contribute to the early regeneration of microvesicles. More microvesicles could later be produced from the smooth endoplasmic reticulum.
Some of the myelinated axons in rat peripheral nerves possess marked axoplasmic carbonic anhydrase activity [Riley, Ellis and Bain (1982) J. Histochem. Cytochem. 30, 1275-1288; Riley and Lang (1984) J. Hand Surg. 9A, 112-120]. A mixture of reactive and nonreactive neurons was a general observation in cervical, thoracic and lumbar ganglia. Nonmyelinated axons in lumbar dorsal roots were nonreactive; this was consistent with the lack of carbonic anhydrase in small sensory neurons. The carbonic anhydrase cytochemical method marked the larger afferent or sensory neurons and distinguished them from the smaller sensory neurons which were devoid of carbonic anhydrase activity. Nonmyelinated axons in the lumbar ventral roots were also nonreactive. Examination of muscle spindle innervation revealed staining of the primary sensory and gamma motor endings. This was strongly suggestive that some of the reactive sensory neurons were primary afferents and a portion of the reactive ventral root axons were gamma motor. The reactive central processes of spinal neurons sent collaterals into the grey matter of the spinal cord, entered the dorsal funiculi, and terminated in synaptic glomeruli in the cuneate and gracilis nuclei. Oligodendroglial cells appeared to be the only intrinsic cellular elements of the brain stem and spinal cord that exhibited high carbonic anhydrase activity. Both oligodendroglial and Schwann cells exhibited intense carbonic anhydrase activity in thin pockets of cytoplasm internal to compact myelin. The subcellular distribution of reaction product within sensory neurons and oligodendroglial cells agreed with biochemical reports of cytosol and membrane-bound forms of carbonic anhydrase. A general staining of the cytoplasm was suggestive of soluble carbonic anhydrase fixed in situ by the glutaraldehyde. Clumps of reaction product on the cytoplasmic surface of the endoplasmic reticulum possibly represented membrane-bound enzyme. Most of the membrane-bound carbonic anhydrase was associated with the internal membranes rather than the axolemma or limiting plasma membrane of the axon. In contrast to biochemical reports, a small fraction of neuronal mitochondria exhibited staining in the intracristal spaces. We suggest that the association of carbonic anhydrase with endoplasmic reticulum and mitochondria implicates the enzyme in regulating intracellular calcium because both organelles are known to sequester calcium.
The topography of the substantia nigra and its subdivisions was first analysed in macaques by using a topographic technique based on ventricular landmarks. This study shows the stability of the contours of the substantia nigra and its subdivisions in various species of macaques. The anteroposterior sequence of four subdivisions was standardized by defining eight verticotransverse levels, regularly interspaced and systemically used for each experimental case. Neurons of the substantia nigra sending axons to the striatum, thalamus and superior colliculus were identified by the technique of retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase. The nigrostriatal labeled neurons were essentially located in the ipsilateral pars compacta but also scattered dorsally in the pars mixta and ventrally in the pars reticulata. In addition, the existence of a crossed nigrostriatal pathway was demonstrated in monkeys. Nigrothalamic labeled neurons were found in the whole pars reticulata at rostral levels and only in the medial part at more caudal levels. Comparatively, nigrotectal labeled neurons were also found in the whole pars reticulata at rostral levels, but caudally, they were confined to the lateral part of the pars reticulata and the pars lateralis. It thus appears that these three nigral components may overlap at some levels of the substantia nigra. This is discussed in relation to the existence of branched axons already documented. However, the present results underline the strong tendency of the nigrotectal neurons to be segregated from the nigrothalamic ones and to be laterally located in monkeys. In addition, two nigrotectal components have been identified on the basis of their topography and their somata size: one with large somata located in the pars lateralis, probably specific to primates, and the other with smaller somata located in the pars reticulata. These two components may indicate the existence of two different functional systems.
The enkephalin-like immunoreactivity in the retina of chicks has been studied using immunohistochemical and radioimmunoassay techniques. The histochemical experiments showed that the immunoreactivity was confined to a subpopulation of amacrine cells in the inner nuclear layer which projected processes into sublaminae 1 and 3-5 of the inner plexiform layer. The distribution of the immunoreactivity was markedly influenced by the ambient lighting conditions: it was reduced in the dark and restored by a period in the light. The reactivity was lost from both cell soma in the inner nuclear layer and from the processes. Radioimmunoassays showed that the quantity of enkephalin-like material was reduced by more than 60% after 12 h in the dark. Attempts to entrain a rhythm by keeping chicks on 12/12 h light/dark cycles for up to 4 days were largely unsuccessful. A rhythm may have been partially entrainable, but the major factor involved was light. These results highlight the lability of the neuropeptide in the retina and the need for controlled lighting conditions in studies of this kind. They also indicate that this system may be a fruitful model to explore two important issues: (i) it could allow studies of neuropeptide metabolism in a physiologically intact system; (ii) the role of particular amacrine cells in visual processing could be determined by depleting them of their neurotransmitter/neuromodulator.
Using immunohistochemical methods we have studied the distribution of substance P fibers, terminals and perikarya throughout the basal ganglia of baboons and at selected levels of the human brain. Immunoreactivity in the substantia nigra pars reticulata, internal segment of the globus pallidus and ventral pallidum was dense and of a characteristic, &quot;woolly-fiber&quot; morphology. The caudate nucleus and putamen contained sharply circumscribed patches of dense immunoreactivity superimposed on a moderately stained background. The external division of the globus pallidus displayed very little immunoreactivity. Two morphological types of immunoreactive cell bodies were present in the caudate nucleus, putamen and nucleus accumbens, and were clustered within the dense patches. The distribution of immunoreactive perikarya within the striatum differed from that reported for rats, as immunoreactive neurons were distributed evenly throughout the rostrocaudal extent rather than being concentrated in the rostral portions.
Incubation of rat superior cervical ganglia with dimethylphenylpiperazinium (30 microM) for 30 min resulted in a two-fold increase in tyrosine hydroxylase activity. This effect was completely inhibited by substance P (30 microM) but not by substance P-free acid, kassinin or physalaemin. Neither of these four peptides alone produced any change in the activity of tyrosine hydroxylase. The IC50 for the inhibitory effect of substance P was approximately 3 microM. Substance P did not inhibit the stimulatory effects of bethanechol or vasoactive intestinal peptide on this enzyme activity. Thus substance P, acting at a site which has a different pharmacology than previously characterized substance P receptors, selectively inhibits nicotinic stimulation of tyrosine hydroxylase activity. These data raise the possibility that substance P may modulate the nicotinic regulation of catecholamine synthesis in sympathetic ganglia in vivo.
An increase in vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) immunoreactivity in the dorsal lumbar hemisegment L4 of the spinal cord was observed by both radioimmunoassay and immunocytochemistry following sciatic nerve section or crush. Compared to the contralateral control hemisegment there was 125% and 35% more VIP immunoreactivity in the L4 hemisegment ipsilateral to the lesion 14 days following nerve section and crush respectively. The contralateral control hemisegment contained levels similar to L4 hemisegments from unoperated control rats. This increase appeared by immunocytochemistry to be confined to the substantia gelatinosa, in the region of termination of the majority of unmyelinated sciatic nerve afferents. Similar increases to VIP were observed for the peptide PHI, which is closely related to VIP. However, spinal cord substance P and somatostatin immunoreactivities were reduced following nerve section and unchanged following nerve crush whilst neurotensin and bombesin immunoreactivities were not affected following either lesion. Previous studies have shown that peripheral nerve injury produces a number of electrophysiological and biochemical changes in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord, including depletion of substance P in primary afferent neurones. The location of the cell bodies of fibres showing increased immunoreactivity remains to be established. Further studies are required to elucidate how these peptide changes are related to the adaptive processes which occur centrally following peripheral nerve injury.
Immunoreactive-vasopressin, -oxytocin, -dynorphin, -dynorphin-(1-8), -alpha-neo-endorphin and -[Met]enkephalin were, in each case, present in greater concentrations in dorsal as compared to ventral, and lumbo-sacral as compared to cervico-thoracic, spinal cord. These differences were significantly more pronounced for vasopressin and oxytocin than for the other peptides. Lesions of the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus depleted levels of immunoreactive-vasopressin and -oxytocin throughout the cord whereas levels of the opioid peptides therein were unaffected. In contrast, destruction of either the supraoptic or suprachiasmatic nucleus failed to change the content of immunoreactive-vasopressin, -oxytocin or any of the opioid peptides in the cord. Dehydration for 3 days depressed levels of immunoreactive-vasopressin, -oxytocin and -dynorphin in the neurointermediate lobe of the pituitary. In distinction, the levels of these were not modified in the spinal cord. Further, treatment with the synthetic corticosteroid, dexamethasone, elevated levels of immunoreactive-vasopressin, -oxytocin and -dynorphin in the neurointermediate pituitary whereas these were unaffected in the spinal cord. It is concluded that vasopressin and oxytocin in the spinal cord are predominantly derived from the paraventricular nucleus, localized in dorsal lumbo-sacral regions of the cord and insensitive to endocrinological manipulations. These pools may, thus, be modulated differently from their counterparts in the neurohypophysis and have a differing role, possibly in the control of the primary processing, autonomic or motor junctions. Further, there is no evidence from these or our prior studies for a close interrelationship of spinal cord vasopressin with dynorphin-related peptides (or oxytocin with [Met]enkephalin), likewise in contrast to the neurohypophysis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A modification of &quot;classical&quot; electrophysiological techniques was used to characterise the secretory activity of individual release sites of the sympathetic nerves of guinea-pig and mouse vas deferens. The rising phases of the intracellularly recorded excitatory junction potentials of a smooth muscle cell, were electrically differentiated, and fluctuations in the rate of rise recorded as phasic peaks (in the dV/dt of excitatory junction potentials), termed &quot;discrete events&quot;. Experimental factors which may influence discrete events were examined systematically, and criteria established to recognize a discrete event as the &quot;image&quot; of transmitter secreted from a particular release site. To determine the quantal content of a stimulus-evoked discrete event, it was compared with discrete events occurring spontaneously in the same cell. Furthermore, the frequency dependence of the probability of occurrence of discrete events was compared with that of the evoked fractional secretion of tritium-labelled noradrenaline, to find out if release sites from which noradrenaline is secreted share the characteristics of those secreting the (still unknown) transmitter causing discrete events. The results obtained permit the following tentative conclusions: Both in guinea-pig and mouse vas deferens stimulus-induced secretion of transmitter from a single varicosity of the sympathetic nerves is highly &quot;intermittent&quot;. Transmitter secretion from a varicosity is basically monoquantal. Spontaneous secretion of transmitter quanta occurs from &quot;random&quot; sites, but a nerve impulse causes secretion of a quantum from a &quot;preferred site&quot; of a varicosity: during a stimulus train quanta are secreted in &quot;complementary pairs&quot;. Secretion of the first quantum in a &quot;pair&quot; does not lead to &quot;autoinhibition&quot; of the site from which it was released, but induces a short-lasting facilitation. (5) Some characteristic features of the secretion of the neurotransmitter causing discrete events, seem to apply to the secretion of noradrenaline from noradrenergic nerves also.
Stable intracellular recordings were obtained from 22 suprachiasmatic neurones in isolated brain slices. These cells were characterized by resting potentials of about -60 mV, high input resistances, relatively short time constants and action potentials of short duration. The action potentials were preceded by a slow depolarization and followed by a relatively brief afterhyperpolarization and long-lasting increase in membrane conductance. Current-voltage relations were usually linear between 0 and 80 mV negative to the resting potential. Postsynaptic potentials were evoked in these cells by electrical stimulation of the optic chiasm or contralateral suprachiasmatic nucleus. Both excitatory postsynaptic potentials, which evoked action potentials, and inhibitory postsynaptic potentials were recorded. Synaptic potentials were associated with an increase in membrane conductance. Action potentials evoked by synaptic activation were sometimes followed by up to three small, fast potentials. Small fast potentials were not seen to occur spontaneously, or to follow spontaneous, or current-evoked spikes, nor were they evoked by synaptic potentials that failed to evoke action potentials. The suprachiasmatic nucleus is essential for the generation of normal biological rhythms in mammals. The input it receives from the optic nerve is thought to be important in this role. It is hoped that these preliminary intracellular studies will form a basis for further work on the inherent properties of suprachiasmatic neurones and their responses to visual input.
Tritiated dopamine synthesized from tritiated tyrosine was estimated simultaneously in the two caudate nuclei and the two substantia nigra of cats anaesthesized with halothane. In control animals, the electrical stimulation of the right forelimb enhanced dopamine release in the right caudate nucleus and decreased dopamine release in the right substantia nigra. Opposite effects were observed in the contralateral structures. Left nigral application of d-amphetamine produced the same effect. However in cats with extensive lesions of the left pericruciate cortex, an increase in the release of dopamine in the left substantia nigra was the only detectable effect of these two treatments. These results suggest that the cortical structures are involved not only in the transfer of information between the two dopaminergic pathways but are also involved with regulation of the release of dopamine in the striatum originating in the substantia nigra. With regard to the role of the thalamic structures in this transfer of information, it is proposed that the thalamostriatal control of the release of dopamine previously suggested is closely dependent on cortical activity.
The suction pipette method for combined voltage clamp and intracellular dialysis was applied to isolate the two components of voltage-gated inward current across membranes of NIE-115 neuroblastoma cells. In order to analyze the kinetic behavior of the Na+ and Ca2+ channels responsible for generating these components, current through K+ channels was effectively blocked by substituting impermeant Cs+ for internal and external K+. Block was confirmed independently by examining the effects of the application of external tetraethylammonium or Cd2+; and comparing the time course of Ca2+ tail currents with the decay of current during a maintained depolarization. Na+ currents studied at 8-10 degrees C, developed as a fourth order process giving a maximum e-fold conductance change for a 3 mV depolarization, with half activation occurring at -10 mV. The instantaneous current-voltage relationship was linear. Time constants of the activation parameter (m) varied from 0.5 ms (-50 mV) to 3-4 ms (-10 to -40 mV) at 10 degrees C. Inactivation (h) was a first order process having a time constant between 4 ms (+10 to +60 mV) and 225 ms (-60 mV). Steady-state inactivation for Na+ channels attained a value of 0.5 at -50 mV. A slow inactivation process, however, also is involved in gating of Na+ channels, and has a time course at least two orders of magnitude slower than that for h. The temperature sensitivity of Na+ currents was found to be similar to that found for other preparations. Ca2+ currents were studied at 24-29 degrees C in the presence of internal ethyleneglycolbis-(aminoethylether)-tetra-acetate (EGTA) and an external Ca2+ concentration of 20 mM. Ca2+ channel activation could also be described by a fourth order process giving an e-fold conductance change for a 5-6 mV change in potential and the half activation potential of -13 mV. Internal EGTA (20 mM) did not abolish inactivation of Ca2+ currents and no recovery from inactivation caused by a prepulse could be measured as the prepulse potential approached the null potential for Ca2+ influx. Time constants of both activation and inactivation of Ca2+ channels were measured between -20 and +50 mV. Currents through K+ channels could be completely eliminated by substitution of K+ with Cs+, although a residual non-linear leakage current remained, in addition to currents through the Na+ and Ca2+ channels.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The physiological and morphological effects of the calcium ionophore A23187 (calimycin) at the frog neuromuscular junction in vitro were examined. Miniature endplate potentials were recorded intracellularly during exposure to the ionophore. Preparations fixed 15 or 30 min after adding the drug to the incubating medium, which exhibited a greatly increased miniature endplate potential frequency, showed no obvious morphological differences when compared to controls with regard to synaptic vesicle number or distribution of vesicles within the terminal. However, after 45-60 min of exposure to the ionophore, when miniature endplate potential frequency had declined almost to zero, most of the nerve endings appeared devoid of synaptic vesicles and other organelles while the plasma membrane was intact. It is suggested that the apparent depletion of vesicles from the terminal induced by the calcium ionophore is a consequence of irreversible changes at the terminal.
The neuromuscular junctions of mammalian slow and fast twitch muscles are activated differently in vivo and show corresponding physiological differences in vitro, but the structural basis or consequences of these differences are relatively unexplored. Therefore, neuromuscular junctions of mouse fast (extensor digitorum longus) and slow (soleus) twitch muscles were compared by use of new scanning and light microscopy techniques. In both muscles, the endplate appeared as an elliptical area raised to a variable extent above the surrounding sarcolemma and containing the primary clefts. In most soleus endplates, this raised surface area was considerably higher and wider and about three times larger than in extensor digitorum longus. In addition, the primary cleft area was about two-fold greater in soleus than in extensor digitorum longus, even though cleft length was the same. The primary clefts formed either an elliptical shape along the outer margin of the endplate with inward-directed branches or a group of relatively rectilinear dendritic branches orthogonally oriented to one another. The latter type was most frequent in soleus and the elliptical type in extensor digitorum longus. Corresponding patterns of nerve terminal arborizations were seen by light microscopy. Although nerve terminal areas were the same in fast and slow muscles, in the former, numerous diverticulae significantly increased the length of the nerve terminal outline. The possible physiological significance of the different synaptic structure of slow and fast muscle is discussed.
Intracellularly recorded excitatory junction potentials in smooth muscle cells, and the first time differentials of their rising phases (&quot;discrete events&quot;) were used to analyse transmitter secretion from the postganglionic sympathetic nerves of guinea-pig and mouse vas deferens. The aim was to determine whether the transmitter causing these responses is noradrenaline or adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP). Depletion of the noradrenaline stores following treatment with reserpine reduced the frequency of occurrence, but not the amplitude, of spontaneous junction potentials and discrete events. Nerve stimulation could still evoke &quot;fast&quot; junction potentials and discrete events, normal in appearance, but &quot;slow&quot; junction potentials were reduced in amplitude and had shorter times to peak. In contrast, desensitization of ATP receptors by alpha, beta-methylene ATP abolished spontaneous and stimulus-induced &quot;fast&quot; (but not &quot;slow&quot;) junction potentials and discrete events, reversibly. It is concluded that it is not noradrenaline, but ATP or some related compound which causes spontaneous and &quot;fast&quot; stimulus-induced junction potentials, and discrete events. The present and earlier data show that discrete events reflect the secretion of individual quanta of ATP (or quanta of &quot;ATP + noradrenaline&quot;, if both are secreted in parallel from the same vesicle) from postganglionic sympathetic nerve terminals in guinea-pig and mouse vas deferens.


The brain has diversified and advanced in evolution more than any other organ; the variety of nervous systems and behaviors among animal species is thus available for our exploitation. Comparative neuroscience is likely to reach insights so novel as to constitute revolutions in understanding the structure, functions, ontogeny, and evolution of nervous systems. This promise requires pursuit on a wide front, in respect to disciplines and in respect to the species, stages, and states compared. It also requires deliberate concentration on the differences among animals, in addition to the prevailing concern for the basic and common. Neglect of these challenges would be costly. Without due consideration of the neural and behavioral correlates of differences between higher taxa and between closely related families, species, sexes, and stages, we cannot expect to understand our nervous systems or ourselves.
A method is described in which brain tissue from microwave heat inactivated mouse brain is prepared for microregional energy metabolite analysis. This method permits the sectioning of the tissue into sections 40 microns thick in which layers can be visualized and dissected. Results show no movement or leaching of metabolites from one microregion to another. This method therefore, permits the combined use of the two powerful neurochemical techniques of microwave irradiation for sacrifice and microregional analysis for energy metabolite determination.
The possibilities of the ultrasound technique for local destruction of certain brain areas, for reversible alteration of functional state of the c.n.s. structures and for study of structural-functional interrelationships in the brain are discussed.
The origin of substance P-like immunoreactivity (SPLI) in the neuropil of sympathetic preganglionic neurons (SPNs) was investigated in pigeon (Columba livia). Previous investigators had suggested that a major SPLI-containing projection to SPNs arose from caudal brainstem (Johansson, O., T. Hokfelt, B. Pernow, S. L. Jeffcoate, N. White, H. W. M. Steinbusch, A. A. J. Verhofstad, P. C. Emson, and E. Spindel (1981) Neuroscience 6: 1857-1881; Gilbert, R. F. T., P.C. Emson, S. P. Hunt, G. W. Bennett, C. A. Marsden, B. E. B. Sandberg, H. W. M. Steinbusch, and A. A. J. Verhofstad (1982) Neuroscience 7: 69-87; Helke, C. J. J. J. Neil, V. J. Massari, and A. D. Loewy (1982) Brain Res. 243: 147-152) and, furthermore, that the bulbospinal fibers and terminals in the SPN neuropil which contained SPLI also contained serotonin-like immunoreactivity (5-HTLI) (Johansson, O., T. Hokfelt, B. Pernow, S. L. Jeffcoate, N. White, H. W. M. Steinbusch, A. A. J. Verhofstad, P. C. Emson, and E. Spindel (1981) Neuroscience 6: 1857-1881; Gilbert, R. F. T., P.C. Emson, S. P. Hunt, G. W. Bennett, C.A. Marsden, B. E. B. Sandberg, H. W. M. Steinbusch, and A. A. J. Verhofstad (1982) Neuroscience 7: 69-87). In the present study, various spinal lesions were made and the SPLI and 5-HTLI content of thoracic spinal cord was examined using immunohistochemistry. Interruption of descending bulbospinal fibers by cervical hemisection had no demonstrable effect on SPLI in the SPN neuropil, while 5-HTLI was almost totally depleted in the half of the spinal gray (including the SPN cell column) ipsilateral to the hemisection. Following a complete thoracic transection, SPLI was only depleted 2 to 3 mm rostral and caudal to the lesion, while normal SPLI staining was present in the remainder of the spinal cord. 5-HTLI was totally depleted caudal to a thoracic transection. Dorsal rhizotomy of three to six sequential spinal segments significantly depleted SPLI in the dorsal horn but had no effect on SPLI in the region of SPNs. Major depletion of SPLI within the SPN cell column was only seen when portions of thoracic spinal cord were isolated by complete transections or unilateral hemisections. Finally, evidence was found for intraspinal SPLI-containing fiber systems. These results demonstrate that the majority of SPLI in the SPN cell column in the pigeon is probably of intraspinal origin. The data also confirm that 5-HTLI is contained in axons and terminals arising from cell bodies of supraspinal origin.
A double-barrelled microelectrode is described, which permits the continuous measurement of the concentration of the epileptogenic agent pentylenetetrazol (PTZ). The electrode is based on the liquid potassium exchanger (Corning No. 477 317) and enables measurements of PTZ concentration in physiological salines down to 1 mM. The electromotive behaviour of the liquid membrane against PTZ cannot directly be described by the Nicolsky-Eisenman formalism. It is suggested that specific interactions of the PTZ molecule with the Corning ligand are involved in the potential generating mechanisms.
An adaptation of a miniature microdrive allows unit recording and microiontophoresis in freely moving rats. Multibarrel glass micropipets are inserted into the detachable microdrive daily, and advanced manually into superficial or deep brain structures. The demonstration of stability in recording neuronal responses to iontophoretically applied drugs suggests that this technique will be useful in studying drug actions on single neurons across a wide range of conscious behaviors.
A simple method is described for the construction of electrode arrays consisting of insulated metal wires (33 microns diameter) spaced at small, equal distances (0.1 mm). No specialized instrumentation and techniques are needed, as only simple mechanical tools are sufficient. The electrode arrays are used for field potential recording from in vitro brain slice preparations.
A simple and easily constructed unit was designed using a buffer amplifier, a programmable transconductance amplifier and an active filter. The unit allows extracellular recording and stimulation through the same electrode. Thus in experiments where it is required to stimulate a nerve and record the effects of the stimulation from the same nerve, the stimulating and the recording electrodes can be combined in one.
Quantification of different kinds of neuronal mass activity was performed using an integrative method. For this purpose an electronic device was designed and constructed which is based on a fully digital approach. High precision of the method and an easy way to interface with a digital computer are the advantages of this strategy when compared to other techniques. Performance of quantification and the possibility of the universal use of the device are demonstrated by two examples. (1) Quantitative analysis of whole nerve bundle activity is demonstrated in the case of phrenic nerve mass activity. (2) The usefulness of the digital integrator is further verified in quantification of theta waves of the human EEG as a rather different field of application. In addition, the device is valuable as a tool for the analysis of EMGs. The described digital integrator has many advantages compared to conventional analog integrators, such as autorange feature, very high dynamic range, excellent long-term stability, in principle unlimited integration times and interface capability to a digital computer; it avoids all problems associated with the application of high-impedance integrator operational amplifiers.
A simple, computerized densitometer is described which can be used to measure densities of photographic prints by means of a fiber-optic reflectance densitometric probe coupled to the movable cursor of a digitizing tablet. The cursor, with its attached probe, is moved by hand along a scan trajectory determined by the operator. In its configuration for use with 2-deoxyglucose autoradiographs, the histological section from which the autoradiograph was derived provides architectonic landmarks for guiding the path of the scan. The X, Y and density values taken along a scan line are sequentially stored in the computer memory. Algorithms are presented for plotting densities along unfolded scan lines within layers of structures with complicated shapes, for normalizing non-linearities introduced during photographic processing, for standardizing the data sets with reference to the density of average gray matter in different animals, for calculating total integrated density within defined boundaries along the scan line, for generating averages of multiple scans, and for stacking sequential scans to form pseudo-3-dimensional plots. This system allows densitometric measures to be made from autoradiographs in anatomically defined regions, thereby permitting precise correlation between isotope concentration and histological structure.
This survey identified and described the characteristics and perceptions of neuroscience nurses as well as the basic and master's level curriculum relating to neuroscience theory and clinical components. The major sources of stress as perceived by neuroscience nurses were identified, categorized and prioritized in accordance with their present roles. The information in this survey can be used to guide future studies on neuroscience nurses. More must be learned about the neuroscience nurse so that nurse educators and administrators can provide the necessary resources to facilitate learning and coping. This is essential to insure the provision of high standards of patient care.
The change has taken three years. Many obstacles (attitudes, scheduling, philosophical differences, etc.) had to be overcome. The unit needed to develop its own autonomy and culture. The head nurse found it necessary to relinquish some control and the clinical nurses, in turn, had to determine manageable versus unmanageable problems. Risks were involved on every level from clinical nurses to the Director of Neuroscience Nursing, but all responded with trust and commitment to nursing and to the organizational goals. The unit was fortunate in a number of ways during the implementation of the work groups. It was advantageous to have a consultant who continually made the head nurse and group leaders look at the unit as a part of a total organization. The many &quot;buts&quot; that were interjected when comparing/contrasting nursing with other professions were refuted. It became apparent that the majority of nurses were fully aware that the profession involves working 24 hours a day, seven days a week including holidays. For the most part, the new graduate understands that hands on care includes such tasks as changing incontinent patients, making beds, and lifting and turning patients. Nursing also means intangible rewards in serving patients who need care. For nurses on our unit, what needed to be changed was the idea that a nurse has little or no control over the work life on a unit. If indeed nurses are committed to nursing, it is up to them, with appropriate support, to identify and alter the aspects of the job which are unsatisfactory.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

A technique for long-term recording of unitary spikes of the basal ganglia neurons in moving cats has been introduced. For recording of extracellular unitary spikes teflon-coated platinum/iridium wires of 25 microns diameter (A-M Systems, WA, U.S.A.) are used. A suitable preamplifier using small diodes and FETS is made. A crucial point is to make the head of the preamplifier as small as possible and to connect it to the main part of the preamplifier with soft wires. The same amplitude spikes are picked up by a slicer device and the spikes are converted into square pulses of 1 ms duration. To study the relationship between changes of unitary activities and behavior, a video-tape recording system which includes two cameras, mixing device and editing machine is used. A way of identification of sites of recorded cells is described.
The distribution of cells of origin of ascending and descending internuclear connections in the trigeminal sensory nuclei was studied by the retrograde horseradish peroxidase technique in the cat. The termination of collaterals of these ascending axons was also studied by the anterograde transport of horseradish peroxidase. Following injections of horseradish peroxidase into the ventral part of the principal sensory nucleus and the adjacent reticular formation many small neurons were labeled ipsilaterally in the whole area of the caudal portion of the nucleus interpolaris and in laminae III and IV of the nucleus caudalis. Labeled neurons were also found in laminae I and V. Injections limited to either nucleus oralis, the ventral part of the principal sensory nucleus and the medial parabrachial nucleus labeled similar types of neurons in the above regions with a topographic relationship; neurons in the dorsal part of the nuclei caudalis and interpolaris project, dorsally, to rostral portions of the trigeminal sensory nuclei while those in the ventral part of the nuclei caudalis and interpolaris project ventrally. Anterograde labeling of axons arising from the nucleus caudalis demonstrates that the axons ascend in the intranuclear bundles and the adjacent reticular formation, and give off collaterals to the nuclei interpolaris and oralis, and the ventral part of the principal sensory nucleus. Injections limited to the nucleus caudalis labeled small neurons in the rostral portion of the nucleus oralis and the caudal portion of the nucleus interpolaris. The present study suggests that these ascending and descending internuclear connections of the trigeminal sensory nuclei may modulate transmission of afferent inputs to various projection sites, such as thalamus, superior colliculus, cerebellum and spinal cord.
Since melanotrophs are electrically active and exhibit spontaneous Na spikes, a study was made of the effects, on melanotroph secretion, of drugs known to influence electrical properties. The output of melanocyte-stimulating hormone was measured from perifused neurointermediate lobes of mice or melanotrophs dispersed from such lobes of mice or rats. Veratridine (200 microM), which is known to increase Na permeability in a variety of cells, caused a large, although transient, increase in secretion from the melanotrophs that required extracellular Ca2+ and was blocked by the Na-channel blocker tetrodotoxin (1 microM). Tetraethylammonium (10 mM), which blocks K channels and thus prolongs the duration of the action potential in many cells, also stimulated secretion in the melanotrophs in a Ca-dependent manner. This response was not, however, blocked by tetrodotoxin, and is thus not attributable to prolongation of Na spikes in these cells. Moreover, tetrodotoxin did not inhibit basal secretion. The stimulant effect of veratridine on secretion in melanotrophs and its suppression by tetrodotoxin suggests that voltage-dependent Na channels can participate in the regulation of hormone output in these cells of the pituitary pars intermedia. However, the apparent lack of effect of tetrodotoxin on basal secretion suggests that the spontaneous Na spikes previously observed in these cells are not required for promoting the Ca influx which other evidence shows is important for basal secretion.
Horseradish peroxidase was injected into the superior colliculus or pretectum or both in order to label, by retrograde axoplasmic transport, the retinal ganglion whose cells axons innervate the dorsal midbrain. The dendrites of ganglion cells were sufficiently well-labelled to reveal their overall morphological characteristics. It was therefore possible to compare the number and form of ganglion cells projecting to the midbrain with the total population of ganglion cells as revealed by optic nerve injections, and with ganglion cells labelled by injections in the lateral geniculate nucleus. We found that not more than 10% of all retinal ganglion cells project to the superior colliculus in the macaque monkey. This percentage varies little over the retina, being about 6% of all ganglion cells near the fovea and increasing slightly with eccentricity. The superior colliculus does not receive a projection from P beta cells and only a few P alpha cells terminate there. The majority of cells which project to the superior colliculus have a small- to medium-sized cell body and sparsely branched dendritic tree. We have called them P gamma and P epsilon cells by analogy with the gamma cells and epsilon cells in the cat's retina. Anatomically the P gamma and P epsilon cells are heterogeneous, which would be consistent with the physiological heterogeneity found for ganglion cells which project to the midbrain in monkeys.
Horseradish peroxidase was deposited in the optic nerve to retrogradely label and reveal the dendritic form of all classes of ganglion cell, or it was injected into the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus to reveal only those classes projecting to the thalamus. The results were compared with those of the accompanying paper in which the ganglion cells projecting to the midbrain are selectively revealed. Two major classes of ganglion cells are described, the P alpha and P beta cells. For both classes dendritic field size increases with eccentricity from the fovea and there is no overlap in the two classes at any given eccentricity. Cell body size shows a similar mean difference but with a slight overlap. Both cell bodies and dendritic fields are larger along the temporal horizontal meridian than the nasal horizontal meridian, for P alpha and for P beta cells, but these differences are reduced when naso-temporal differences in ganglion cell density are taken into account, that is, size correlates closely with density. Injections restricted to the parvocellular layers of the lateral geniculate nucleus labelled almost exclusively P beta cells, whereas injections confined to the magnocellular layers labelled almost exclusively P alpha cells. As midbrain injections label no P beta cells and few P alpha cells it can be shown that about 80% of ganglion cells are P beta cells projecting to parvocellular lateral geniculate nucleus, and that about 10% are P alpha cells projecting to magnocellular layers. The coverage factor, that is the number of cells covering each point on the retina, varied from 1.9-2.3 for P beta cells, and from 2-7 for P alpha cells. Comparing the results with those of comparable investigations on cats and rabbits shows a much clearer segregation of the terminal targets of different classes of ganglion cell in monkeys, the greatest difference being the absence in the monkey of a projection to the geniculate from gamma- and epsilon-like cells. Further, axons which branch and innervate both thalamus and midbrain are rare in monkeys but common in other mammals. Comparing the results with those from physiological investigations suggests that the P beta cells correspond to colour-opponent cells, whereas P alpha cells correspond to the achromatic broad-band magnocellular cells.
Reciprocal connections are formed between the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus and the striate cortex in the mammalian visual system. The question of whether fibers of these corticopetal and corticofugal pathways are segregated or intermingled within the white matter is still open. In order to examine the organization of these fiber tracts within the white matter, we have used orthograde axonal transport of radiolabelled proteins and neuronal degeneration following kainic acid lesions in the geniculocortical and corticofugal pathways of the rat. Within the white matter the two pathways reside in different layers and are segregated from one another over a significant portion of their course, geniculocortical fibers lying in the external sagittal stratum and corticofugal fibers lying in the internal sagittal stratum of the white matter. In addition, the corticofugal pathways projecting to subcortical structures appear fasciculated in both the transport and the degeneration studies suggesting that axons of cortical output neurons are organized into fiber bundles. The separation of fibers within the white matter may be of potential use for selectively stimulating afferent and efferent pathways in electrophysiological studies in situ and in cortical slice preparations. In addition, the corticofugal fiber bundles may play an important role in guiding axons therein to appropriate targets during axonogeneis and may carry the output of columnar units within visual cortex.
The visual cortex of 20 day old rats and rabbits has been considered as mature on the basis of the observations that the dendritic arborization and the overall synaptic population have almost reached their adult stage in these animals. In the present study we have investigated the visual cortex of 20 day and 7 month old (adult) rabbits in order to determine whether this apparent adult appearance also holds for the synaptic organization of individual neurons. Neurons mainly located in layers III and IV of the primary visual cortex (area 17) were Golgi-impregnated, gold toned and deimpregnated and were then, after embedding in plastic, sectioned serially. The number and length of synaptic profiles, and the length of the neuronal boundaries were analysed in every tenth section. From these counts and measurements the size distribution of the synaptic discs, the number of synapses per 100 micron2 neuronal surface and the receptive surface expressed as the percentage of the total neuronal surface covered with synaptic contacts were estimated using stereological methods. At both ages studied, the density of synapses was significantly higher for the non-pyramidal neurons than for the pyramidal neurons. Differences in the amount of receptive surface were parallel to the differences observed for the number of synapses per 100 micron2. At day 20 the receptive surface of the non-pyramidal neurons was significantly larger than that of the pyramidal neurons. The receptive surface of the non-pyramidal neurons in the adult stage was not only larger than that of the pyramidal neurons in the adults, but also larger than that of the day 20 non-pyramidal neurons. From our results the following conclusions can be drawn: (1) The synaptic input received by the pyramidal neurons is mainly established at day 20 of postnatal life, i.e. prior to the establishment of adult visual behaviour. (2) The non-pyramidal neurons complete their maturation in a later stage than the pyramidal neurons. (3) Medium to large sized synaptic contacts are newly formed after day 20 and are mainly added to the synaptic population on dendrites of non-pyramidal neurons. (4) The specific increase in the number of synapses on non-pyramidal neurons is discussed in relation to intracortical inhibition which is thought to be important for the fine regulation of visual function during development.
A combined Golgi-electron microscope method was used to study the ultrastructural maturation of synapses on identified pyramidal and multipolar non-pyramidal neurons in the visual cortex of young and adult rabbits. In samples of 10 (time of eye opening), 14, 20 day old and 7 month old animals, fully impregnated pyramidal neurons within the layers II-V and multipolar non-pyramidal neurons mainly located in lower layer III and layer IV was studied. We found that synapses in 10 and 14 day old animals were occasionally immature in appearance. They were characterized by either a poorly defined postsynaptic band or equal rims of pre- and postsynaptic electron-dense material and could therefore not be classified as Gray type I or II. The distinction between both types of synapses was easier at day 20 and in the adults when the postsynaptic band of the asymmetrical (type I) synapses had become remarkably thicker. In pyramidal neurons the cytoplasmic organelles increased in number during development. Although a few symmetrical synapses were present on dendritic spines of pyramidal neurons in 14 and 20 day old animals, all pyramidal neurons exhibited the same types of synapses on specific sites of their neuronal surface. They received exclusively type II synapses on their somata, type I synapses on their dendritic spines and both types of synapses on their dendritic shafts. However, in the adult animals the frequency of occurrence of type II synapses, especially on basal dendritic shafts, had increased. In some cases only type II and no type I synapses were present. A striking finding in all young and adult animals was that synapses at the borderline between somata and apical dendritic shafts as well as on dendritic spines were frequently complex or interrupted. The characteristic ultrastructural features of adult spine-free and sparsely spiny multipolar non-pyramidal neurons e.g. the many cytoplasmic organelles and type I and II synapses on somata and on dendrites were already present at day 10. After day 10 the number of organelles and synapses increased prominently and in adult animals the different types of synapses on dendrites were located at relatively short intervals of about 4 microns. In contrast with the dendritic shafts of pyramidal neurons many asymmetrical synapses were observed on dendritic shafts of the non-pyramidal neurons analysed in the adult animals. Furthermore, it appeared that the number of synapses on these non-pyramidal neurons is about twice that on pyramidal neurons in day 20 old animals and about four times in adult animals.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
During fetal development of the cat's visual system there is a marked overproliferation of optic nerve axons. In utero binocular interaction contributes to the severity of fiber loss since removal of an eye during gestation attenuates axon loss in the remaining optic nerve. The purpose of the present study was to determine whether this reduced loss of optic nerve fibers is due to a failure of retraction by supernumerary axon branches or to a reduction in ganglion cell death. To resolve this issue, we compared the number of ganglion cells and optic nerve fibers in adult cats which had one eye removed at known gestational ages. Retinal ganglion cells were backfilled with horseradish peroxidase and counts were made from retinal wholemounts. The axon complement was assessed with an electron microscopic assay. In the retinas of a normal cat we estimated 151,000 and 152,000 ganglion cells. The optic nerves of two other normal cats contained approximately 158,000 and 159,000 axons. In comparison, an animal enucleated on embryonic day 42 had 180,000 ganglion cells and 178,000 optic nerve fibers, while in an animal enucleated on embryonic day 51 the corresponding estimates were 182,000 and 190,000. The close agreement between cell and fiber counts indicates that axonal bifurcation does not contribute appreciably to the axon surplus in the optic nerve of prenatally enucleated cats. These results demonstrate that prenatal binocular interaction regulates the size of the mature retinal ganglion cell population.
We have investigated the localization of muscarinic cholinergic receptors in the brainstem of eight patients free of neurological disease following quantitative autoradiography of microtome sections of postmortem tissue labeled in vitro with N-[3H]methyl scopolamine as a ligand. Receptor densities were quantified by microdensitometry with the aid of a computer assisted image analysis system. Our results reveal a heterogeneous distribution of receptor sites. High concentrations of muscarinic cholinergic receptor sites were associated with many nuclei and areas of the brainstem including the nucleus facialis (VII), hypoglossus (XII), ambiguus, the motor trigeminal nucleus (V), the nucleus solitarius, the nucleus of the lateral lemniscus, the superior and inferior colliculi, the sensory trigeminal nucleus (substantia gelatinosa), the pontine nuclei, the parabrachial nuclei, some tegmental nuclei and the periaqueductal gray matter. Very high concentrations of N-[3H]methyl scopolamine binding sites were also localized in the ventral tegmental area, the nucleus paranigralis and the nucleus ovalis. Receptor densities varied between individual brains although the relative distribution of the densities in the different nuclei was the same for all of the brains examined. Most of the brainstem nuclei containing muscarinic cholinergic receptors were enriched in high affinity agonist binding sites as shown by characteristic displacement of the ligand with carbachol. Exceptions were the substantia nigra, the nucleus olivaris inferior and the substantia gelatinosa of the fifth nerve. Receptor density values and pharmacological characteristics obtained in the cortex and basal ganglia in our cases are in good agreement with previously reported values in humans, using conventional biochemical methods. This indicates that procedures used in the autoradiographic technique are not detrimental to the pharmacological characteristics and densities of muscarinic cholinergic receptors. Our results thus clearly show the feasibility of using these techniques for the localization and quantification of muscarinic cholinergic receptors in human brain postmortem material. Furthermore, our findings indicate the potential involvement of the muscarinic cholinergic effect of acetylcholine in the normal function of many brainstem centers, including motor and sensory nuclei, visual and auditory relay nuclei and cardiovascular and respiratory-related nuclei.
An antibody to vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) was used to examine the forms of VIP-positive neurons and the synapses made by VIP-positive axon terminals. Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-positive cells are most common in layers II and III and the majority of them are typical bipolar neurons, with two primary dendrites which emanate from the upper and lower poles of the cell body. Their somata, which have only a few symmetric and asymmetric synapses, generally have a fusiform or &quot;tear-drop&quot; shape and contain nuclei with a vertically oriented cleft. The dendritic trees are arranged vertically and often extend through five cortical layers. The axons are thin and extend either from the soma or from one of the primary dendrites. The axons also follow a vertical trajectory. Other VIP-positive neurons are modified bipolar cells and a few of them are multipolar cells. The synapses formed by the VIP-positive axon terminals in the neuropil are symmetric in form, and although the synaptic clefts are narrow, the junctions are usually long and continuous, rather like those described for asymmetric synapses. Most of the VIP-positive axon terminals synpase with small dendritic shafts, but a few synapse with neuronal cell bodies. Since the majority of the VIP-positive neurons are bipolar cells it is concluded that these are the source of most of the VIP-positive axon terminals. If this is so, then the VIP-positive bipolar cells form symmetric synapses. This is in contrast to the observations of Peters and Kimerer (1981. J. Neurocytol. 10, 921-946) for the bipolar cells they examined in a Golgi-electron microscopic study had axon terminals forming asymmetric synapses. It is suggested that this disparity can be reconciled if it is assumed that the bipolar cell population consists of subgroups which have different biochemical characteristics and different synaptic relationships.
By means of histofluorescence microscopy, 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine was shown to be taken up by selective populations of brain neurones of the frog, Rana pipiens, following both intracranial administration and in vitro incubation with isolated brain preparations. Presumptive non-aminergic cell bodies of the superficial aspect of tectal lamina 6 exhibited more avid uptake than did putative serotonin perikarya of the raphe complex. Within the tectum, 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine uptake appeared to be restricted to large piriform neurons; in the torus semicircularis, it occurred in a morphologically dissimilar group of scattered cells. The same tectal cell system accumulated 5-hydroxytryptamine and 6-hydroxytryptamine, but not N-acetylserotonin, melatonin, or noradrenaline. 5,7-Dihydroxytryptamine uptake was insensitive to cold or imipramine; however, it was blocked by ouabain at high but not low temperature. At concentrations greater than or equal to 100 microM, 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine-induced fluorescence was sufficiently intense to permit tracing of intratectal dendrites and tectofugal axonal processes projecting to a lateral diencephalic neuropil and an ipsilateral isthmic neuropil. While previous monoamine histofluorescence and immunohistologic studies have not revealed serotonin-containing perikarya in the ranid tectum, our findings demonstrate that lamina 6 piriform projection neurones, presumably lacking indolamine-synthesizing enzymes, possess a striking capability for accumulating hydroxylated tryptamines.
In order to gain insight into the process of colonization of the bowel by the neural crest-derived precursors of enteric neurons, the development of the enteric nervous system was examined in lethal spotted mutant mice, a strain in which a segment of bowel is congenitally aganglionic. In addition, nerve fibers within the ganglionic and aganglionic zones of the gut of adult mutant mice were investigated with respect to their content of acetylcholinesterase, immunoreactive substance P, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and serotonin, and their ability to take up [3H]serotonin. In both the fetal gut of developing mutant mice and in the mature bowel of adult animals abnormalities were limited to the terminal 2 mm of colon. The enteric nervous system in the proximal alimentary tract was indistinguishable from that of control animals for all of the parameters examined. In the terminal bowel, the normal plexiform pattern of the innervation and ganglion cell bodies were replaced by a coarse reticulum of nerve fibers that stained for acetylcholineserase and were continuous with extrinsic nerves running between the colon and the pelvic plexus. These coarse nerve bundles contained greatly reduced numbers of fibers that displayed substance P- and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-like immunoreactivity, but a serotonergic innervation was totally missing from the aganglionic bowel. During development, acetylcholineserase and uptake of [3H]serotonin appeared in neural elements in the forgut of mutant mice on the 12th day of embryonic life (E12), about the same time these markers appeared in the forgut in normal mice. By day E14, neurons expressing one or the other marker were recognizable as far distally as about 2 mm from the anus. The appearance of neurons in segments of gut grown for 2 weeks as explants in culture was used as an assay for the presence of neuronal progenitor cells in the segments of fetal bowel at the time of explantation. Both acetylcholinesterase activity and uptake of [3H]serotonin developed in neurons in vitro in explants of proximal bowel between days E10 and E17. At all times, however, the terminal 2 mm of mutant but not normal fetal gut gave rise to aneuronal cultures. In some mutant mice rare, small, ectopically-situated pelvic ganglia were found just outside aganglionic segments of fetal colon. Uptake of [3H]serotonin, normally a marker for intrinsic enteric neurites, was found in these ganglia. The experiments support the hypothesis that the terminal 2 mm of the gut in lethal spotted mutant mice is intrinsically abnormal and thus cannot be colonized by the precursors of enteric neurons.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Capsaicin, a neurotoxin which depletes substance P from primary afferent nerve fibres, was injected systematically into adult guinea pigs. The effects of capsaicin were studied by immunohistochemistry, electron microscopy and radioimmunoassay at times from 5 min to 1 year. Within 5 min after a single injection of capsaicin (50 mg/kg) substance P immunofluorescence appeared less intense and less homogeneous than normal (i.e. it appeared granular). Large nerve trunks remained evident, but there were fewer fine single nerve fibres. With increasing time there was a progressive decrease in the number of immunoreactive fibres; by 4 h there was a marked reduction in the number of fibres and by 24 h only an occasional fibre was evident. In animals sacrificed 2 or more hours after treatment large brightly fluorescent swellings were seen in many nerves. Depletion of substance P-immunoreactivity persisted for as long as 365 days after treatment. Electron microscopy revealed alterations in capsaicin-sensitive nerve fibres within 5 min after treatment. Many fibres appeared swollen and there was disruption of their internal morphology, e.g. loss of microtubules and filaments and presence of an amorphous flocculent material in the axons. With increasing time after treatment, electron-dense profiles, indicative of degenerating nerve fibres, were commonly seen associated with Schwann cells. These findings demonstrate that the effects of systemic administration of capsaicin to adult guinea pigs occur rapidly in capsaicin-sensitive nerve fibres. The long lasting depletion of substance P-containing fibres is due to their degeneration.
The relative distribution of glycogen phosphorylase a and b in the lumbar spinal cord of the adult rat following either transection or crush of the sciatic nerve has been studied. The activity of the glycogen phosphorylase was measured histochemically by its capacity to convert glucose-1-phosphate to glycogen which was then stained with iodine. Prior to any treatment, the enzyme was largely in its inactive b form. Sciatic section and crush produced a transient (24 h) decrease in the amount of the active glycogen phosphorylase a in the sciatic motoneurone pool. Fourteen days post-transection, but not crush, a marked increase in the level of the active glycogen phosphorylase a form of the enzyme could be detected in the axotomised motoneurones which persisted for up to 6 weeks. No equivalent changes occurred in the axotomized dorsal root ganglion cells. Glycogen phosphorylase although normally present in neurones in its inactive b form can be converted to the active a form by calcium or adenosine 3':5'-phosphate. The substantial increase in the level of glycogen phosphorylase a in axotomized motoneurones may be a reflection of an increased calcium influx into these cells due to the development of abnormally hyperexcitable membranes and the appearance of dendritic spikes that is known to occur in these motoneurones.
The localization of substance P-like immunoreactivity in the interpeduncular nucleus using the peroxidase-antiperoxidase technique, revealed that the median region of the interpeduncular nucleus was one area rich in substance P-like immunoreactive processes. The ultrastructural characteristics of these substance P-like immunoreactive processes and their organization within the middle zone of the median region of the interpeduncular nucleus was studied. Substance P-like immunoreactivity was found in the perikaryon of small neurons, and in proximal and small dendrites. The substance P-like immunoreactive cell bodies and proximal dendrites receive a variety of unlabeled synaptic terminals. The immunoreactive small dendrites usually formed the central component of a &quot;rosette&quot;-like formation with unlabeled terminals. A few immunoreactive small unmyelinated axons and boutons were also present in the neuropil. The substance P-like immunoreactive boutons contained mainly small round vesicles with some large dense-core vesicles. These substance P-like immunoreactive boutons were presynaptic to unlabeled dendritic profiles, and frequently to substance P-like immunoreactive dendritic profiles. They were also seen in apposition to unlabeled boutons. Substance P-like immunoreactive boutons were not found to synapse with the crest-like dendritic processes in this part of the interpeduncular nucleus. It is suggested on the basis of morphological features, that some of the unlabeled terminals synapsing on substance P-like immunoreactive dendrities, may be cholinergic in nature.
A direct comparison has been made of the drug-induced changes in extracellular levels of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid measured using intracerebral dialysis and differential pulse voltammetry with carbon fibre electrodes. The comparison was carried out in chloral hydrate anaesthetized rats with a pretreated carbon fibre electrode implanted in one striatum and an intracerebral dialysis loop in the contralateral striatum. 3,4-Dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid in the dialysis perfusates were assayed by high pressure liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection. d-Amphetamine (2 mg/kg) decreased extracellular 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and the height of the 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid oxidation peak, while haloperidol (0.5 mg/kg) increased 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid levels measured in the perfusates and the height of the 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid oxidation peak. In these experiments there were parallel changes in 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid levels and peak height and a close correlation between these changes. Tranylcypromine (10 mg/kg) produced an almost parallel decrease in extracellular 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (dialysis) and the height of the 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid oxidation peak, with similar percentage changes and good correlation values being obtained. However, while 5-hydroxy-L-tryptophan (25 mg/kg) increased both the 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid levels and the height of the 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid oxidation peak, 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid in the dialysis perfusates showed a greater increase than the oxidation peak. The results show a close correlation between changes in extracellular 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and its respective voltammetric peak and strongly support the use of in vivo differential pulse voltammetry for monitoring dopamine metabolism.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Non-catecholamines such as phenylethanolamine and p-octopamine are present in many invertebrate nervous systems, sometimes in large amounts. These amines are normally present in the rat brain at much lower levels, p- and m-octopamine are present at trace levels in the mammalian brain. The prenatal development of these amines was studied in comparison with those of noradrenaline and dopamine. The activities of tyrosine hydroxylase, dopa decarboxylase, dopamine beta-hydroxylase and monoamine oxidase were determined in parallel. Phenylethanolamine and p-octopamine are more abundant in the brain between 13 and 17 fetal days than dopamine and noradrenaline but decrease after 17 days whereas the levels of m-octopamine and the two catecholamines increase afterwards. Dopa decarboxylase, dopamine beta-hydroxylase and tyrosine hydroxylase are detected early in fetal life (13, 15 and 14.5 days respectively) but monoamine oxidase activity was not found before 18 days.
In order to analyse the functions of dopamine, the effects of the iontophoretic application of dopamine on the responsiveness of striatal neurons to their normal inputs were investigated in the behaving monkey. It was shown that many neurons in the putamen had responses related to movements, of for example the mouth. Iontophoretically applied dopamine decreased the spontaneous firing rates of 178 of 267 neurons (67%) tested in the putamen, caudate nucleus, and the adjacent prefrontal cortex which also receives a dopaminergic projection. Trifluoperazine, applied iontophoretically to block dopamine receptors, increased the spontaneous firing rates of some of the neurons in the prefrontal cortex, suggesting that under normal conditions in the behaving animal the release of dopamine holds the firing rates of these neurons at a low level. The median was 9 spikes/s in the present sample of striatal neurons. Application of dopamine decreased the magnitude of the movement-related responses of the striatal neurons; this decrease in the responses was of approximately the same magnitude in spikes per second as the decrease in the spontaneous firing rate of the neurons produced by the same current of dopamine. It is suggested that this type of effect of dopamine could influence the signal to noise ratio of processing within the striatum, and that changes in this signal to noise ratio produced by disturbances of dopaminergic function could contribute to the behavioral disorders produced by dysfunctions of the dopaminergic systems.
Different experimental approaches have been used to demonstrate that aspartate and/or glutamate is a transmitter(s) in the projection from the torus longitudinalis to the marginal layer of the optic tectum in the goldfish. Slices of the optic tectum incubated in vitro in the presence of D-[3H]aspartate and processed for light microscopic autoradiography, demonstrated a preferential accumulation of the labeled compound in the marginal layer. Under the same experimental conditions several neurons in the central part of the torus longitudinalis selectively accumulated D-[3H]aspartate. Synaptosome-enriched preparations from the optic tectum showed high-affinity uptake for D-[3H]aspartate and the rate of the uptake was significantly decreased after disconnection from the ipsilateral torus longitudinalis. The same subcellular preparations showed Ca2+-dependent release of previously accumulated D-[3H]aspartate under high potassium stimulation. This release was significantly reduced in preparations from optic tecta 5 days after cutting their connection with the ipsilateral torus longitudinalis. Finally, D-[3H]aspartate injected in the optic tectum retrogradely labeled the fiber systems connecting the marginal layer with the ipsilateral torus longitudinalis as well as neuronal cell bodies in the torus longitudinalis itself. From autoradiographic experiments it was, in addition, noticed that several tectal neurons selectively accumulated D-[3H]aspartate in the cell bodies as well as in main dendritic trunks. This observation suggests tht aspartate and/or glutamate may be a transmitter(s) in some intrinsic circuits and extrinsic projections of the optic tectum.
Immunocytochemistry with antibodies to catecholamine synthesizing enzymes has revealed cells in the retina of chick, mouse, hamster, rat, guinea-pig, piglet and marmoset which contain tyrosine hydroxylase but not dopamine beta-hydroxylase. These findings suggest that the cells in question produce dopamine but that catecholamine synthesis does not proceed further to noradrenaline. Tyrosine hydroxylase-containing amacrine cells, located in the innermost part of the inner nuclear layer, were present in all the species studied. Some species showed atypically located amacrine cells in the inner plexiform or ganglion cell layer. In the rodents, the existence of tyrosine hydroxylase-containing interplexiform cells was suggested by the presence of a few short immunoreactive ascending processes. Three different morphological types of putative dopamine-containing cells were classified according to the level of ramification.
Synchronized multiple bursts represent an epileptic neuronal behavior transitional between synchronized single bursts (interictal spikes) and self-sustained seizures. As described in the previous paper, synchronized multiple bursts occur in hippocampal slices treated with picrotoxin. Multiple bursts consist of an initial prolonged depolarizing burst followed by a rhythmical series of afterdischarges. Both the initial burst and the afterdischarges are synaptically elicited. Our previously described model of the interictal spike illustrates that the generation of a single synchronized burst requires a neuronal network possessing the following properties: intrinsic bursting capability of individual neurons, the presence of recurrent excitatory connections between principal neurons and the blockade of synaptic inhibition. The model demonstrates that the generation of single synchronized bursts involves the initial excitation of one or more neurons, and the subsequent sequential spread of excitation through a population of neurons via recurrent excitatory synapses. In the present study, we examined whether this same mechanism assumed in the previous model could also allow for the generation of synchronized afterdischarges in a population of neurons. We tested the effects of manipulating three network factors: synaptic strength, synaptic density and the refractoriness in the population members following a period of excitation. We discovered that the refractory period following prolonged excitation assumed in our previous model was insufficient to allow for afterdischarge generation. Once sufficient refractoriness was introduced, afterdischarges appeared in our network of neurons. In the present study, the required refractoriness was attributed to the properties of pyramidal cell axons. In principle, such refractoriness might be located elsewhere in the network. The possible contribution of axonal properties is emphasized because of the known intermittent conduction in other axons. Our present model also reproduced other experimental data. Thus, if the network was too small or if synaptic strength was too small, then only a single synchronized burst occurred. The basic assumptions of this model are both biologically plausible and experimentally testable.
In the presence of picrotoxin, spontaneous synchronized bursts followed by afterdischarges were recorded from all pyramidal cell regions of the guinea pig hippocampal slice. Excitatory synaptic potentials, which reversed at approx -5 mV, were found to be associated with both the initial burst and each afterdischarge. Afterdischarges were reversibly blocked, leaving the initial synchronized burst intact, by the application of several excitatory amino acid antagonists or by increasing Mg2+ so that the efficacy of synaptic transmission was reduced. All synchronized activity was suppressed by applying an increased concentration of antagonist or by raising Mg2+ and lowering Ca2+ so that synaptic transmission was completely blocked. This synchronized neuronal activity occurred spontaneously in the CA2-3 region when isolated from the CA1 pyramidal cell area and the dentate gyrus. When CA2 was separated from CA3 a synchronized rhythm of single bursts was observed in CA2, while a different, slower, synchronized population discharge consisting of initial bursts followed by afterdischarges occurred in CA3. The smallest completely isolated segments of the CA3 field which spontaneously generated synchronized afterdischarges, comparable to those observed in the intact slice, measured 500-700 microns along the stratum pyramidable. It is concluded that these afterdischarges depend on local neuronal interactions mediated by chemical synaptic mechanisms which may occur within a single population of as few as 1000 CA3 pyramidal cells. The results are consistent with a repeated activation of the same group of synapses, which may release an excitatory amino acid neurotransmitter, being responsible for the initiation of each afterdischarge.
The contribution of genetic differences to variation in ageing and the relationship of ageing to certain types of dementia are discussed. Neuropathological changes commonly found in the ageing brain are present in more severe form in Alzheimer-type dementia, Down's syndrome, multi-infarct dementia, and a substantial number of patients with Parkinson's disease. An increased frequency of ageing-associated changes outside the brain have been reported in Alzheimer-type dementia, Down's syndrome, and multi-infarct dementia, although the evidence is generally meagre and in many cases requires further corroboration. Genetic studies of Alzheimer-type dementia support the existence of heterogeneity on the basis of family history and age of onset; early onset is associated with greater genetic risk and severity of abnormality. The increasing evidence of an association between DNA damage, premature ageing, and neuronal cell loss may provide insights into the aetiology of these and other forms of dementia.
Using the classical clinico-anatomical correlation method of the French clinical school, Paul Broca confirmed the localization of &quot;language&quot; in the frontal lobe. He actually discovered the lateralization of language in the left hemisphere. These contributions eventually led to the demise of the older concept of the &quot;sensorium commune,&quot; because Broca's ideas implied the presence of motor functions in the hemispheres. Although Broca worked within the theoretical motif of the &quot;faculty&quot; psychology, the reflex-oriented &quot;associationist&quot; psychology soon became the predominant theoretical framework of localization, because it accommodated the motor aspect of hemispheric function. Since Broca's time, the study of the biology of language has proceeded along two parallel but sometimes separate lines in the experimental and clinical traditions.
A combined hardware/software system for the study of the temporal distributions of spike data is described. Through extensive use of assembly language subroutines the program is able to simultaneously acquire, analyze and display the incoming data. Production of a &quot;Temporal Memory Map&quot; makes possible the examination of acquired data at a wide variety of different bin widths. Interaction with the user is made extremely simple. Provisions are included for the labelling and printing of the output histograms and for the compact storage of data onto floppy disks. Maximum temporal resolution is 0.1 millisecond and maximum total acquisition width is 12.8 minutes. Hardware requirements beyond the basic computer consist of an external signal conditioning circuit and a slot-independent peripheral card containing two integrated circuits. The system has been successfully used in the analysis of neural and EMG evoked responses and should be widely useable in other applications.
A compromise terminology for subdivisions is proposed which integrates the two previous standard and two recent and more detailed subnuclear schemes. The unpaired median subnuclei are called rostral, central and apical. The paired subnuclei are called rostral lateral, dorsal lateral, intermediate and lateral. A plea is made for attention to these consistent subdivisions, and for uniformity of terminology regardless of the parameters studied.
A simple, two-part device is described which has been used to provide rapid serial sectioning of fresh rat brain in experiments in which identifiable brain regions were microdissected for biochemical analysis. This device is easily constructed at low cost, and offers several advantages over other devices and techniques.


Both acetylcholinesterase and non-specific cholinesterase are found in cerebrospinal fluid and blood plasma of the cat; the ratio of activities acetylcholinesterase/non-specific cholinesterase is about 1.5 in cerebrospinal fluid and 0.15 in plasma. A search was made for factors capable of influencing the concentration of the two cholinesterases in cerebrospinal fluid. Either the ventricular system was perfused with artificial cerebrospinal fluid from a lateral ventricle to the aqueduct, or the atlanto-occipital membrane was punctured and cerebrospinal fluid was collected continuously from the cisterna magna. Factors studied included: (a) procedures affecting the composition or formation of cerebrospinal fluid, such as changes in the ionic constituents of the perfusate, the inhibition of cerebrospinal fluid formation by acetazolamide or ouabain, or the rapid intra-carotid infusion of hypertonic urea; (b) arousal (noise or stimulation of the central ends of the sciatic nerves), or deepening of anaesthesia; (c) changes in blood pressure; (d) central stimulants and depressants, pyrogens, prostaglandins, antagonists of acetylcholine. Whereas most procedures or drugs tested increased the concentration of acetylcholinesterase, some central depressants (e.g. chlorpromazine) reduced, while another (ether) increased the appearance of acetylcholinesterase in the cerebrospinal fluid. The effect of ether was, in all probability, due to damage to the blood-brain barrier. A rise in acetylcholinesterase concentration was obtained upon stimulation of the central ends of the sciatic nerves; this was inhibited by atropine but not by N-methylatropine, indicating that the rise was due to increased nervous activity and not to the circulatory effects of the stimulation, since the changes in blood pressure caused by the stimulation remained the same after atropine administration. Amphetamine or leptazol raised the levels of acetylcholinesterase but it was not possible to determine whether this was due only to increased central nervous activity, since there was invariably leakage through the blood-brain barrier which by itself would be sufficient to produce the effect. A rise in the level of acetylcholinesterase was seen after administration of pyrogen; this was apparently not a simple effect of warming the body, but due to the action of the pyrogen on centers concerned with temperature control, since warming the animal by external heat failed to produce a similar change.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The pattern of [14C]2-deoxyglucose(-6-phosphate) accumulation in the brains of 14 chicks, 24 h post hatch was investigated. Isotope was injected 1 min prior to birds pecking either a water-coated or a methylanthranilate-coated bead (passive avoidance training). Birds were killed following testing for pecking or avoidance of a similar but dry bead 30 min later. Autoradiograms of coronal and parasaggital brain sections were scanned densitometrically and uptake into 12 identified and relatively heavily labelled structures measured. Three of the structures, hyperstriatum ventrale (posterior), palaeostriatum augmentatum and lobus parolfactorius showed significantly enhanced labelling (by 10, 13 and 11%; p less than 0.001, less than 0.05 and less than 0.05 respectively) in the birds which had been trained on the methylanthranilate bead by comparison with those which had pecked at the water-coated bead. The results are discussed in relationship to other observed biochemical changes consequent on passive avoidance training.
The ultrastructure of brain microvessels, their permeability to serum albumin, the activities of some endothelial enzymes and the effect of histamine were investigated in rats after a prolonged hypobaric-hypoxic treatment. After prolonged hypoxia, the permeation of serum albumin into endothelial cells increased together with the number of pinocytotic vesicles of the endothelium. Intracarotid histamine stimulated this process even further, and its effect was mediated by H2-histamine receptors. After hypoxia the specific activity of capillary alkaline phosphatase and gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase remained unchanged, while that of adenylate cyclase was greatly increased. Histamine did not modify the structure of tight junctions of isolated capillaries of normoxic animals. Both hypoxia- and histamine-induced modification of the brain microvessels were accompanied by an increase of pinocytosis, which may be stimulated by the activation of capillary adenylate cyclase.
The 16-day-old fetal locus coeruleus can survive and grow, when transplanted into the spinal cavity created by transection of the adult spinal cord. The implants usually break up into smaller cell groups which become lodged in the host spinal cord, mainly in the caudal region. There was a marked proliferation of the damaged coerulospinal noradrenergic fibers in the rostral, ventral horn region of the cord. A neurotrophic substance produced by the locus coeruleus implants is probably responsible for this effect. Evidence for vigorous axonal growth of noradrenergic fibers derived from the implants in the caudal region of the cord was obtained. In 2/12 cases, the surviving locus coeruleus did not grow into the host tissue. Neosympathetic innervation of the caudal region of the cord occurred both in cases in which the implants survived, or did not survive. The survival rate of the transected, implanted animals is greater than 90%. The success rate of fusion of the implant with the host tissue is 40%. Based on these results, and other reports published recently, it is concluded: (1) that the purely technical difficulties of transplantation and survival of the fetal locus coeruleus in the transected spinal cord of the young adult rat on a long-term basis can be successfully solved. (2) For optimum reinnervation, the transplant should be placed in the lumbar intumescence, and not in the spinal cavity created by transection. (3) The spinal cavity created by transection must be bridged by some other method. The use of fetal spinal cord tissue on fetal mesencephalic tissue may prove to be useful for this purpose. (4) Transection of the cord must be done sub-pially, in order to minimize retraction and compression of the cord. The damaged pia must be resutured. (5) A second fetal locus coeruleus implant should be placed adjacent to the exposed surface of the rostral region of the cord. The results are discussed both in the context of recent efforts to try to restore functional activity to the damaged spinal cord, and in terms of efforts to try to understand the problems involved in fostering the growth of fetal brain tissue in the damaged spinal cord of an adult host animal.
Peculiarities of axon branching and distribution of rubro-spinal neurones in various brainstem structures were studied in acute cats using the technique of intracellular recording of antidromic action potentials as well as collision testing. Axon collaterals of rubro-spinal neurones into the main sensory trigeminal nucleus, facial nerve nucleus, descending (inferior) vestibular nucleus, lateral reticular nucleus, external cuneate nucleus, gracile and main cuneate nuclei were identified. Correlation between the antidromic impulse conduction time along the stem axon before and after collateral branching and the time of impulse conduction in the collaterals themselves was analysed. The number of axon collaterals of individual rubro-spinal neurones to particular brainstem structures was studied. A tendency was observed for the synchronous arrival of rubro-spinal impulses to various brainstem centres, due to an increase in conductance velocity the further away these centres were from the red nucleus.
The present experiments were conducted to determine the electrophysiological and pharmacological properties of substantia nigra neurons in the mouse. These cells were studied using extracellular single unit recording and microiontophoretic techniques in both chloral hydrate anesthetized mice and in vitro mouse slices. In the in vivo preparation the substantia nigra zona compacta neurons had long duration action potentials (greater than 4 ms), fired from 1 to 7 impulses/s, and the cells discharged with either a decremental burst pattern or with a regular pattern. The dopamine agonists apomorphine and d-amphetamine, given systemically, decreased the firing rate of these neurons and the dopamine receptor blocker, haloperidol, reversed these effects. The zona compacta neurons were inhibited by the micro-iontophoretic application of dopamine and gamma-aminobutyric acid, and systemic haloperidol selectively attenuated the effects of dopamine. In vitro recordings from substantia nigra zona compacta and zona reticulata neurons were generally similar to those found in vivo, both in terms of the electrophysiological and pharmacological properties. However, the zona compacta cells fired faster in vitro than in vivo, and the firing pattern in vitro tended to be pacemaker-like, especially when recordings were made in an incubation medium which blocks synaptic transmission (e.g. low Ca2+/high Mg2+). Our data indicate that: (a) in vivo mouse zona compacta neurons exhibit the same electrophysiological and pharmacological properties as rat dopamine-containing neurons; (b) in vitro mouse dopaminergic neurons fire with pacemaker regularity when in a low Ca2+/high Mg2+ environment; and (c) in vitro studies offer an approach to examine the basic properties of dopaminergic neurons exclusive of feedback pathways and other afferent inputs.
The cytotoxic effects of DL-, D- and L-alpha-aminoadipic acid, a six-carbon homologue of glutamate, were investigated in cell cultures of dissociated postnatal mouse cerebellum. Treatment with alpha-aminoadipic acid resulted in rapid nuclear and cytoplasmic swelling and, after longer periods of exposure, karyopyknosis of astrocytes, identified by indirect immunofluorescence labelling with anti-human glial fibrillary acidic protein antiserum. The number of astrocytes with pyknotic nuclei depended on the concentration of alpha-aminoadipic acid as well as on the duration of drug action. The presence of 0.21 mM DL-alpha-aminoadipic acid or 0.10 mM L-alpha-aminoadipic acid for 40 h caused karyopyknosis in 50% of the astrocytes. In contrast, D-alpha-aminoadipic acid, had little gliotoxic activity. None of the cytotoxic effects of DL-alpha-aminoadipic acid or L-alpha-aminoadipic acid observed for astrocytes were seen for the neurons present in the cultures when the drug was added after 4 days in vitro. Neurotoxic effects were evident, however, when alpha-aminoadipic acid was included in the culture medium at plating. These results indicate that alpha-adminoadpic acid can be used to substantially reduce the number of astroglia in cerebellar cultures and that dissociated cell cultures will provide a useful model with which to study the mechanisms of alpha-aminoadipic acid induced glial toxicity.
Normal rats show two types of rhythmical vibrissal movement, one synchronized precisely with alpha waves (about 9 Hz) of the thalamocortical system, and the other often synchronized with theta waves (about 7 Hz) of the septohippocampal system. The alpha-synchronized vibrissal movements appear while the rat stands still with a slow respiratory pattern, and are of small amplitude (a fine tremor). The theta-synchronized vibrissal movements appear during exploratory sniffing behavior, and are of large amplitude. Thus, a group of facial motoneurons which constitute the final common pathway for vibrissal movement apparently receive input convergently from these two neural systems. In the present study, we observed the following: (1) the two types of movement rarely, if ever, appeared simultaneously and the same was true of the two brain wave patterns. Topographically, the predominant appearance of the alpha waves was in the frontal (sensorimotor) cortex, whereas that of the theta waves was in the occipital cortex and hippocampus. (2) Bilateral ablation of either the entire neocortex or just its anterior (but not posterior) half eliminated the vibrissal alpha-tremor movement while leaving vibrissal theta-sniffing movement normal. In anterior decorticate rats, the tremor movements started to recover by 1-4 months, and were abolished again by the removal of the remaining posterior cortex. (3) Lesions of the medial septum or the fornix eliminated hippocampal theta waves, but had no effect on vibrissal sniffing movement or alpha wave-vibrissal tremor. (4) Cerebellectomy and, to a lesser extent, pharmacological lesions of the inferior olive slowed, but did not block, alpha waves. In addition, vibrissal tremor movement became intermittent and less vigorous. The same manipulations, however, did not affect theta wave-vibrissal sniffing movement. (5) Harmaline (30 mg/kg, i.p.) did not induce alpha-tremor, which, in combination with the results with cerebellectomy and inferior olive lesions, indicates that alpha-tremor is generated by a neural mechanism that is different from that for harmaline-induced generalized tremor of 10 Hz. These findings confirmed that there exist two patterns of synchrony between vibrissal movement and rhythmical brain activity in the rat, i.e. alpha wave-vibrissal tremor movement and theta wave-vibrissal sniffing movement, and suggest that the two patterns reflect a rhythmical mode of functioning of two different neural systems, probably the thalamocortical and the septohippocampal system, respectively.
Hippocampal primordia were transplanted into the hippocampus or septum of adult rats, and the development of the transplant vasculature studied by light microscopy after India ink perfusion, by immunohistochemistry of collagen type IV (as a marker for basal lamina), and by electron microscopy. From the basal lamina of all vessel types arise streamers of basal lamina which clothe the external plasmalemmal surfaces of adjacent astrocytic processes and invaginate them, suggesting that the astrocytic processess may be involved in directing the assembly of this basal lamina. A few host blood vessels reach the transplants by one day after operation, and probably re-perfuse existing transplant vessels. Two main types of vascular reaction occur over the next week. The first is the formation of wide-diameter reactive vessels with an expanded perivascular space, engorged with mesodermal cells (such as macrophages). The second is the formation of dilated, thin-walled, marginal vessels, from which numerous fine capillaries arise. The formation of astrocyte-apposed basal laminar streamers may be important in the development of channels along which the endothelial cells of the newly growing capillaries later migrate. By one month after operation, the transplant vasculature consists of small capillaries whose size, distribution and density are comparable to those of the host. This paper describes the vascular changes which occur when embryonic central nervous transplants become established in the brain of adult hosts, and indicates that one of the characteristic features is the formation of basal lamina-lined channels invaginating the perivascular astrocytes.
Anterograde and retrograde tracing methods including autoradiography, horseradish peroxidase histochemistry and fluorescent dye transport were used to demonstrate that the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex is connected with the hippocampal formation and associated cortical regions by two distinct pathways. Fibers forming a lateral pathway travel in the fronto-occipital fasciculus and connect the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex with the fundus of the rhinal sulcus, posterior subdivisions of the parahippocampal gyrus, and the presubiculum. A larger medial pathway forms in the cingulum bundle and terminates in the most caudal part of the presubiculum, as well as in adjacent transitional cortices. These cortices form a caudomedial promontory that is located between the posterior cingulate and prestriate areas. In all allo- and mesocortical targets of prefrontal cortex, labeled terminals form banding patterns reminiscent of the columnar organization of afferent fiber columns in neocortex. The same cytoarchitectonic areas that receive prefrontal afferents issue reciprocal projections. The largest source is the caudomedial lobule including its presubicular portion. Neurons in the parahippocampal gyrus and adjacent presubiculum also are retrogradely labeled following implants of horseradish peroxidase or injection of fluorescent dyes into prefrontal cortex. In addition, subicular neurons project to the prefrontal cortex although the subiculum does not appear to receive prefrontal afferent input. These findings emphasize that multiple channels of communication link the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and the hippocampus via the parahippocampal gyrus, subiculum, presubiculum and adjacent transitional cortices. We speculate that each of these prefrontal projections may carry highly specific information into the hippocampus, whereas the reciprocal projections may allow retrieval by prefrontal cortex of memories stored in the hippocampus.
Cellular distribution of creatine kinase BB-isoenzyme and tubulin was investigated immunohistochemically with tissue sections from various areas of the gerbil brain. Both the reaction for creatine kinase BB-isoenzyme and tubulin visualized nerve cell bodies, dendrites and axons. While the reaction for tubulin was similar between nerve cell bodies and their dendrites, the reaction for creatine kinase BB-isoenzyme tended to be more intense in dendrites. While the reaction for tubulin could be seen in nerve cell bodies of different sizes, the reaction for creatine kinase BB-isoenzyme was more intense in larger neurons. Both the reaction for creatine kinase BB-isoenzyme and tubulin visualized astrocytic cytoplasm but only in the corpus callosum and in the white matter of limited areas. Visualization of dendrites to their peripheries with the reaction for creatine kinase BB-isoenzyme may indicate participation of this isoenzyme in maintainance of high energy-phosphates locally within dendrites. A combination of the immunohistochemical procedure for creatine kinase BB-isoenzyme and tubulin may be very useful for demonstration of various pathophysiological states of the central nervous system which affect dendrites.
In vivo developmental immunocytochemical studies have recently shown that granule cell axons (parallel fibres) undergo progressive modification of alpha tubulin as they form permanent synapses, a change that is not observed in other microtubule-containing structures (e.g. Purkinje cell dendrites). In this study we have used primary cultures of young rat cerebellum enriched in granule cells to follow maturation of their axons under defined in vitro conditions. Our results show that alpha tubulin is not modified in culture as assessed by immunofluorescence using monoclonal antibodies that recognise different forms of alpha tubulin. We have also confirmed in vivo data showing that microtubule-associated protein 2 is absent from granule cell axons at all developmental stages in vitro. The distribution of axonal cytoskeletal proteins is compared and contrasted during in vivo and in vitro maturation, and considered in relation to differences between the two systems.
Immunocytochemistry with a monoclonal antibody against choline acetyltransferase has been used to characterise cholinergic neurons in the rat neostriatum. The light microscopic morphology, ultrastructure and synaptic input of these neurons was compared to that of the three types of large neuron found in Golgi preparations of the striatum. The cholinergic neurons are large and have long infrequently branching dendrites. Two of the immunoreactive neurons were also Golgi-impregnated and showed characteristics of the &quot;classical&quot; large neurons of the striatum. Examination in the electron microscope revealed that the synaptic input to perikarya and proximal dendrites is sparse, thus distinguishing them from another large type of neuron, found in the ventral regions of the striatum, whose dendrites and perikarya are ensheathed in synaptic boutons. It is concluded that one of the three morphologically distinguishable classes of large neuron in the striatum is a cholinergic neuron.
Choline acetyltransferase immunohistochemistry was used to map the cholinergic cell bodies in the forebrain and upper brainstem of the macaque brain. Neurons with choline acetyltransferase-like immunoreactivity were seen in the striatal complex, in the septal area, in the diagonal band region, in the substantia innominata, in the medial habenula, in the pontomecencephalic tegmentum and in the oculomotor and trochlear nuclei. The ventral striatum contained a higher density of cholinergic cell bodies than the dorsal striatum. All of the structures that contained the choline acetyltransferase positive neurons also had acetylcholinesterase-rich neurons. Choline acetyltransferase positive neurons were not encountered in the cortex. Some perikarya in the midline, intralaminar, reticular and limbic thalamic nuclei as well as in the hypothalamus were rich in acetylcholinesterase but did not give a positive choline acetyltransferase reaction. A similar dissociation was observed in the substantia nigra, the raphe nuclei and the nucleus locus coeruleus where acetylcholinesterase-rich neurons appeared to lack perikaryal choline acetyltransferase activity.
Indirect immunofluorescent methods were used to study peptides in human paravertebral sympathetic ganglia. [Met5]enkephalin, [Met5]enkephalin-Arg6-Phe7 and bombesin-gastrin-releasing peptide-like immunoreactivities were localized in varicose nerve fibers, which often formed basket-like networks around principal ganglion cells. Substance P-like immunoreactivity appeared frequently as solitary varicose nerve fibers and occasionally as networks. No immunolabeled cell bodies were discovered with any of the antisera used, including antibodies raised against molluscan cardioexcitatory peptide Phe-Met-Arg-Phe-NH2. The results demonstrate the presence of peptides within nerve fibers and terminals but not cell bodies of human paravertebral sympathetic ganglia. The localization suggests that the peptides have neurotransmitter or neuromodulator roles in the ganglia.
The sixth lumbar and first sacral spinal cord segments in the rat contain parasympathetic preganglionic neurons which innervate the pelvic viscera. There have been few studies, however, which have specifically considered the distribution of putative peptide neurotransmitters in these cord segments. The present paper describes and compares the immunohistochemical distribution of dynorphin (1-8)-, enkephalin-, somatostatin-, cholecystokinin octapeptide-, avian pancreatic polypeptide-, FMRF-NH2-, neurotensin-, and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-like immunoreactivities in the dorsal gray commissure and sacral parasympathetic nucleus of the sixth lumbar and first sacral spinal cord segments in colchicine-treated rats. Antisera against all of the peptides, except avian pancreatic polypeptide, stained cells in the sacral parasympathetic nucleus. Dynorphin (1-8-), enkephalin-, and substance P-like immunoreactive cells were present in significantly greater numbers than somatostatin-, neurotensin-, cholecystokinin-, FMRF-NH2-, and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-like immunoreactive cells. All of the antisera also stained fibers in the sacral parasympathetic nucleus in varying densities, and a fiber bundle which extended between the dorsal gray commissure and the sacral parasympathetic nucleus. Antisera against substance P and cholecystokinin stained a bundle of fibers that extended between the dorsal horn and the sacral parasympathetic nucleus. Antisera against somatostatin, cholecystokinin octapeptide, substance P and FMRF-NH2 stained an additional fiber bundle which extended between the lateral edge of the dorsal horn and the dorsal gray commissure. All the remaining antisera, except neurotensin, also stained fibers that extended between the sacral parasympathetic nucleus and the dorsal gray commissure, but in a sparser distribution. Immunoreactive cells were localized to the dorsal gray commissure in sections stained with each of the antisera. Dynorphin (1-8) and enkephalin antisera stained the greatest number of cells, followed by FMRF-NH2, neurotensin, somatostatin and avian pancreatic polypeptide. The smallest number of immunoreactive cells was present in substance P, cholecystokinin and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide immunostained sections. A significant difference was noted between the number of dynorphin, enkephalin, somatostatin, cholecystokinin, avian pancreatic polypeptide, FMRF-NH2, neurotensin and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide immunoreactive cells in the sacral parasympathetic nucleus and dorsal gray commissure.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Three morphologically distinct types of neuron that contain acetylcholinesterase have been distinguished by Golgi-impregnation of sections of the rat neostriatum that had been incubated to reveal acetylcholinesterase activity. The neuron that stained most intensely for acetylcholinesterase was a large cell, with smooth or sparsely spiny dendrites; the axon of one these neurons was partially impregnated by the Golgi stain and had local axon collaterals (type 1). Another acetylcholinesterase-containing neuron had a small to medium-size cell body with long sparsely spiny dendrites emerging from opposite poles (type 2). The third type of neuron that contained acetylcholinesterase was medium to large size and had many primary, sparsely spiny dendrites that branched frequently (type 3). Examination of the same Golgi-impregnated, acetylcholinesterase-stained neurons that had been studied in the light microscope by electron microscopy allowed us to distinguish several other differences between the three types of neuron. Whereas all three types had acetylcholinesterase reaction product in the endoplasmic reticulum and along the nuclear envelope, only neurons of type 1 displayed reaction product in the Golgi apparatus. All three types of neuron received synaptic input, mainly along their dendrites. It is concluded that the combination of Golgi-impregnation with histochemical procedures that demonstrate endogenous enzyme activity can be applied to reveal the morphological characteristics, synaptic input and local synaptic output of neurons with specific biochemical properties.
alpha-Latrotoxin, a high molecular weight protein (130,000) purified from the venom of the black widow spider, and a partially purified neurotoxin, glycerotoxin, prepared from extracts of the jaw glands of the polichaete annelid Glycera convoluta, were previously found to induce similar effects (stimulation of quantal acetylcholine release) at the frog neuromuscular junction. In the present study parallel experiments performed with these two toxins revealed that only glycerotoxin was able to release acetylcholine from Torpedo electric organ synaptosomes, while alpha-latrotoxin did not affect release in this system. In contrast, alpha-latrotoxin stimulated release of dopamine from PC12 cells (a cloned neurosecretory cell line), whereas glycerotoxin was almost inactive. In rat brain synaptosomes both toxins were active. Preincubation of synaptosomal membranes with glycerotoxin was without effect on the subsequent binding of alpha-latrotoxin. Glycerotoxin application induced depolarization of synaptosomal plasma membrane, massive Ca2+ influx, marked increase of the cytosolic Ca2+ concentration, and stimulation of catecholamine release. The latter effect occurred to the same extent when glycerotoxin was applied either in complete medium (containing both Ca2+ and Mg2+), Ca2+-free medium or divalent cation-free medium. Some of these effects of glycerotoxin in rat brain synaptosomes (depolarization, increased Ca2+ influx and increased cytosolic Ca2+ concentration) resemble effects previously reported for alpha-latrotoxin. However, the secretory response induced by the latter was reduced in Ca2+-free, and abolished in divalent cation-free media. The different target specificity and the lack of binding competition of the two toxins could be due to their ability to recognize different receptors whose distribution overlap only in part in the cellular systems we have studied. The differences in action, on the other hand, could depend on postreceptor events, possibly related to the transmembrane insertion of toxin molecules demonstrated by others in artificial lipid membranes.
Carbachol and gamma-aminobutyric acid depolarize mammalian sympathetic neurons and increase the free extracellular K+-concentration. We have used double-barrelled ion-sensitive microelectrodes to determine changes of the membrane potential and of the free intracellular Na+-, K+- and Cl- -concentrations ( [Na+]i, [K+]i and [Cl-]i) during neurotransmitter application. Experiments were performed on isolated, desheathed superior cervical ganglia of the rat, maintained in Krebs solution at 30 degrees C. Application of carbachol resulted in a membrane depolarization accompanied by an increase of [Na+]i, a decrease of [K+]i and no change in [Cl-]i. Application of gamma-aminobutyric acid also induced a membrane depolarization which, however, was accompanied by a decrease of [K+]i and [Cl-]i, whereas [Na+]i remained constant. Blockade of the Na+/K+-pump by ouabain completely inhibited both the reuptake of K+ and the extrusion of Na+ after the action of carbachol, and also the post-carbachol undershoot of the free extracellular K+-concentration. On the other hand, in the presence of ouabain, no changes in the kinetics of the reuptake of K+ released during the action of gamma-aminobutyric acid could be observed. Furosemide, a blocker of K+/Cl- -cotransport, inhibited the reuptake of Cl- and K+ after the action of gamma-aminobutyric acid. In summary, the data reveal that rat sympathetic neurons possess, in addition to the Na+/K+-pump, another transport system to regulate free intracellular K+-concentration. This system is possibly a K+/Cl- -cotransport.
We studied the effects of 2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid and 2-amino-4-phosphonovaleric acid, which are antagonists to excitatory amino acids, on brisk-sustained(X) and brisk-transient(Y) ganglion cells in the cat retina. The ganglion cells were recorded extracellularly with a multibarreled electrode in the intact eye in vivo and drugs were applied iontophoretically. We found contrasting effects of 2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid and 2-amino-4-phosphonovaleric acid on ON- and OFF-centre cells irrespective of the brisk-sustained(X)/brisk-transient(Y) dichotomy. The maintained discharge and the light response of ON-centre cells decreased during 2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid and 2-amino-4-phosphonovaleric acid application, whereas the maintained discharge of OFF-centre cells increased. The light response of OFF-centre cells was not significantly affected. 2-Amino-4-phosphonovaleric acid was generally less potent than 2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid. It was shown in the mudpuppy retina [Slaughter and Miller (1981) Science, N.Y. 211, 182-185; Slaughter and Miller (1981) Invest. ophthal. Vis. Sci. 20, 44] that 2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric and 2-amino-4-phosphonovaleric acid selectively block the response of ON-bipolar cells. Assuming that these drugs act on the same synaptic sites in the cat retina, one expects a block of ON-centre ganglion cells. Moreover, the drug response of OFF-centre ganglion cells is then consistent with Sterling's hypothesis [Sterling (1983) A. Rev. Neurosci. 6, 149-185] that OFF-ganglion cells receive a direct inhibitory input from ON-bipolars. For some period 19 out of 108 cells responded to 2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid and 2-amino-4-phosphonovaleric acid in an opposite way to that described above: ON-centre cells increased and OFF-centre cells decreased their maintained discharge. It is proposed that this &quot;reverse response&quot; may be mediated by autoreceptors to excitatory amino acids or due to different receptor sites triggering antagonistic response mechanisms.
Intracellular recordings were made from neurons in bullfrog sympathetic ganglia. Fast B and slow B neurons were identified and selected for the analysis [Dodd and Horn (1983) J. Physiol., Lond. 334, 255-269]. A single soma action potential was followed by a prolonged afterhyperpolarization lasting for several hundred ms up to 2 s. Part of the spike afterhyperpolarization was due to potassium conductance activation triggered by calcium entry during an action potential. Acetylcholine was directly applied onto the soma membrane by iontophoresis. A rapid nicotinic depolarization was followed by a slow muscarinic depolarization. The nicotinic depolarization was followed by a hyperpolarization when the muscarinic depolarization was blocked by scopolamine. This hyperpolarization was several mV in amplitude and from 1 to 10 s in duration. It disappeared when the preceding nicotinic depolarization was blocked by (+)-tubocurarine. A single fast excitatory postsynaptic potential was also followed by a hyperpolarization in the presence of scopolamine. The acetylcholine-induced hyperpolarization was due to potassium conductance activation triggered by calcium entry during the nicotinic depolarization. The present findings show that non-synaptic autoinhibition is operating in sympathetic neurons. In other words, a rapid nicotinic transmission leads to prolonged hyperpolarizations which are not mediated by any transmitters but are mediated by calcium.
A postsynaptic mechanism for transforming electrical activity at a synapse into structural modifications near the synapse is proposed. The firing of a synapse produces a postsynaptic potential which is attenuated as it spreads electrotonically into other parts of the neuron. The potential difference so generated gives rise to an intraneuronal electric field, and permits the electrophoretic migration of charged metabolites, both along the inner surface of the membrane and in the cytoplasm. Estimates of the sizes of these fields suggest that they can play a significant role in locally organizing the distribution of the charged species, thus allowing differential biochemical activity at different synaptic locations. The mechanism is applied first to the innervation pattern found in ciliary ganglion neurons by Purves and Hume [(1981) J. Neurosci. 1, 441-452]. They showed that although ganglionic neurons are multiply innervated in early postnatal life, adult neurons are innervated such that the number of separate pre-ganglionic axons is approximately proportional to the number of major ganglionic dendrites. It is demonstrated how electrophoretic competition can result in individual dendrites establishing individual domains of innervation. The electrophoretic mechanism is next applied to dendritic spines. Theoretical calculations are presented which show that synaptic activity at a spine head can establish large electric fields along the spine, whereas synaptic activity at the base of the spine generates very small electric fields in the spine. The thinner the spine, the stronger the fields. If one assumes that these electric fields can lead to electrophoretic migration of charged metabolites necessary for either synaptic stabilization or enhancement, significant accumulation should occur within spines.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Neurones (n = 194) in the ponto-mesencephalic reticular formation were identified as projecting to the region of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus, by their antidromic activation from this region. The projection of individual neurones was investigated by mapping of thresholds at closely spaced sites in the lateral geniculate nucleus and the dorsally located perigeniculate nucleus. Low thresholds, long latencies and stepwise antidromic latency shifts, occurring together, were taken to indicate termination. Low thresholds with short antidromic latencies without stepwise latency shifts were encountered more ventrally and ascribed to stimulation of larger fibres en route to terminal fields. The conduction velocity from the stimulation site of the large fibres to the cell bodies in the reticular formation was 0.9-3.1 m/s and to regions within the terminal fields 0.06-0.2 m/s. The considerable slowing of the conduction velocity, together with the extensive regions with low thresholds and the abundance of latency shifts, 0.3-19.5 ms, suggest arborization of very thin fibres within the terminal fields. Three groups of reticular neurones with different termination were distinguished: type A neurones (n = 32) terminate exclusively in the laminae of the lateral geniculate nucleus. Type B neurones (n = 22) terminate in the perigeniculate nucleus, the overlaying part of the reticular nucleus of thalamus and in the interlaminar plexuses in the lateral geniculate nucleus. Type C neurones (n = 27) terminate both in the lateral geniculate nucleus and the perigeniculate nucleus. The projection of individual neurones of all three types extended throughout their entire target nucleus/nuclei and is thus global with respect to the visual hemifield. On the basis of previous findings that stimulation in the reticular formation inhibits interneurones in both feed-forward and recurrent inhibitory pathways to relay cells in the lateral geniculate nucleus, it is suggested that the reticular neurones are inhibitory and that the type A neurones control the feed-forward inhibition, type B neurones the recurrent inhibition and type C neurones both inhibitory mechanisms together. Findings suggesting that different reticular neurones may be related to the interneuronal circuits of the X-, Y- and W-systems are discussed. Type A, B and C neurones were found intermingled, around the brachium conjunctivum and among its fibres from the level of the decussation to the posterior end of the locus coeruleus complex.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)


A pharmacohistochemical method for GABA-transaminase (GABA-T), the key enzyme for GABA metabolism, has been combined with retrograde tracing by horseradish peroxidase, to a study of projections to the lateral habenula. The results indicate that projections to the lateral habenula arise from both GABA-T intensive and non-GABA-T staining cells in the rostral entopeduncular nucleus and the lateral hypothalamus suggesting that these projections contain GABAergic elements, as indicated by previous work, but also involve other neurotransmitters. A few GABA-T intensive cells in the lateral preoptic area were also found to project to the lateral habenula by this double staining technique.
Tourette's syndrome is a widely misunderstood chronic disorder that develops in childhood and is usually lifelong. It is characterized by waxing and waning of involuntary motor and phonic tics. The features and differential diagnosis are discussed in this paper. The estimated prevalence rate of Tourette's syndrome, 0.05%, implies that this disorder is not rare. The reasons for diagnostic confusion are outlined, and the genetic and neurotransmitter features discussed. The management of Tourette's syndrome has become more effective with the availability of at least two psychoactive drugs, haloperidol and pimozide. Although the cause of this syndrome is thought to be organic, these drugs and their adverse effects are best known to psychiatrists. Psychiatric and multidisciplinary intervention is often necessary because of the frequent association of psychosocial problems, cognitive and learning difficulties, and aggravation of the symptoms by stress. The understanding of Tourette's syndrome will probably increase significantly with the advent of the newer imaging techniques and the rapid progress of research in the neurosciences.

In the course of examining afferents to ventromedial hypothalamic (VMH) neurons using horseradish peroxidase (HRP), we needed to know how close to an iontophoretic deposit site neurons could be proved to be retrogradely labeled. In evaluating cells near but clearly outside HRP deposit sites visualized after a 24-hour survival period, for example, neurons which had been filled with HRP by somal or dendritic uptake could not be treated as retrogradely labeled and thus would not add to studies of intrahypothalamic connections. Rats were given standardized iontophoretic applications of HRP into VMH (continuous positive current 0.25 mu amp for 1 minute) and sacrificed after 5 or 15 minutes, 1, 4, 8, 12, or 24 hours in order to examine the pattern of HRP spread. The chromogen was tetramethylbenzidine. The volume of the application site visualized at 24 hours was less than 10% of maximum site size, which occurred at 1 hour. Since the cells located within the maximal spread boundary are candidates for nonretrograde labeling, HRP data on local connections obtained even from small iontophoretic deposits must be evaluated in the light of the demonstrated expansion and subsequent contraction of the application site. These results may also hold implications for the precision with which distant connections can be examined using the HRP retrograde method, as sites that appear discrete when visualized after 24-hour survival may have overlapped at shorter times post-iontophoresis. Incorporation of retrograde tracers into polyacrylamide gels provides an effective alternative to pressure injection or iontophoresis of aqueous tracer solutions. We describe a method for filling micropipettes with HRP-polyacrylamide gel. The pipettes are then implanted into brain sites to provide a confined pool of HRP. With postimplantation survival of 24 hour or longer, this method produces sites comparable in size to iontophoretic sites examined at 24 hours and results in improved retrograde labeling. Some results obtained with this method concerning the afferent connections of the dorsomedial hypothalamus are described.


Neuromuscular junctions on slow fibers in frog cruralis muscle have been examined with light and electron microscopy. The slow fiber bundle of this muscle is approximately half slow fibers and half fast twitch fibers. Each slow fiber has two-five clusters of nerve terminals in its central region. In contrast, fast fibers in the same bundle have single anastomosing neuromuscular junctions. The average length of terminal clusters on slow fibers is half that of the terminals on fast fibers. Less cholinesterase activity is associated with nerve terminals on slow muscle fibers. The two types of muscle fiber were identified in freeze-fracture replicas by characteristic patterns of the sarcolemmal caveolae and square arrays. Presynaptic membranes of terminals on fast fibers have long, paired double rows of intramembrane particles which lie along the sides of ridges aligned above each fold in the muscle. Ridges are less prominent or absent in terminals on slow fibers and the associated membrane particles are more often in single rows. The lengths of the particle rows also tend to be shorter and rows tend to branch and to lie at various orientations with respect to the longitudinal axis of the terminal. The average length of the particle rows per unit length of nerve terminal on slow fiber terminals is half that of particle rows on fast fiber terminals. It is concluded that the total length as well as the concentration of these active zone specializations is less at terminals on slow fibers. The lack of parallel orientation of the presynaptic active zones at slow fiber terminals corresponds to a lack of postsynaptic folds. Postsynaptic specializations seen in thin sections through slow fibers are either on flat expanses of sarcolemma or on low sarcolemmal bulges. Patches of large intramembrane particles, similar to those on fast fibers, mark regions of postsynaptic specialization in freeze-fracture replicas of slow fibers.
Incorporation of [3H]fucose into glycoproteins is increased in the forebrain base and anterior forebrain roof of day-old chicks following passive avoidance training. In chicks trained but rendered apparently amnestic by immediate transcranial electroshock, the increased incorporation by comparison with untrained-shocked birds was abolished. If the electroshock was delayed by 10 min, the chicks showed recall for the task and fucose incorporation was increased by comparison with untrained but shocked or trained and immediate-shocked birds. We conclude that the increased incorporation of [3H]fucose is not a result of any concomitant of training but is directly associated with engram formation.
Folic acid has been injected unilaterally into the amygdaloid complex of awake chronically implanted rats, or in rats under anaesthesia. Clinical, electrographic, and metabolic changes (estimated by means of the 2-deoxyglucose method) have been studied in relation to subsequently demonstrated neuropathology using Fink-Heimer and Nissl stains. The observations are compared to the corresponding effects of intra-amygdaloid application of kainic acid. Major differences were noted between the folate and the kainate induced seizure/brain damage syndrome. Thus: folate produced essentially stereotypies, alternating with myoclonic unilateral jerks of head and limbs. In contrast, limbic motor seizures which are characteristically produced by kainic acid, were extremely rare. Folate did not produce the preferential and sequential electrographic activation of limbic structures as observed after kainate. 2-Deoxyglucose autoradiography revealed an enhanced metabolic activity in the injected amygdala and in the overlying piriform and entorhinal cortices. The most conspicuous rise in labelling, however, occurred in the entire fronto-parietal cortex (ipsilaterally) up to the cingulate region, as well as in the ventral thalamic complex and the globus pallidus, i.e. in structures which are not labelled after kainate treatment. Some extent of local damage was observed 1-8 days after the injection; distant from the injection site, we found massive anoxic-ischemic type of damage in the superficial layers of the fronto-parietal cortex, a complete necrosis of the piriform lobe, and neuronal cell loss in the ventral thalamus and several extrapyramidal structures. The full range of limbic damage associated with kainate was never produced by folate. The CA3 region of the hippocampus, most susceptible to kainate, was only mildly affected by folate. These differences between kainate and folate prompted us to re-evaluate the recently reported high affinity of folates for kainic acid membrane binding sites. We found that folic acid competed only very weakly with [3H]kainic acid for binding sites on striatal, cortical, hippocampal, amygdaloid, and cerebellar membranes. It is thus concluded, that folate is not a good candidate for an endogenous kainate-like substance. We propose intracerebral injections of folic acid as a useful tool to study the vulnerability of brain structures to anoxic-ischemic conditions.
Light and electron microscopy (with the combined oxalate-pyroantimonate technique for the electron microscopic visualization of intracellular calcium) were used to compare the hippocampal pathology in rats killed immediately after 1.5-2 h of L-allylglycine-induced seizures with that in rats allowed 15-60 min of a seizure-free &quot;recovery&quot; period before perfusion fixation. Following 1.5 h of seizure activity, cellular pathology included astrocytic swelling and dark cell degeneration of pyramidal and polymorphic neurons. This was accompanied by a marked increase in the amount of calcium pyroantimonate deposits, particularly in swollen and disrupted mitochondria of CA1 and CA3 basal dendrites and in certain neuronal cell bodies in the CA1 and CA3 regions and the hilus. After a seizure-free period of between 30 and 60 min the hippocampi showed almost complete recovery except for a few remaining dark, shrunken cells. The majority of these were presumed to be interneurons. The ultrastructural changes were consistent with the observations by light microscopy. By 60 min, excess calcium deposits had disappeared except in the dark cells in which intracellular vacuoles retained deposits. We conclude that most of the pathological changes observed after 1.5 h of L-allylglycine induced status epilepticus, including the mitochondrial calcium &quot;overload&quot; are reversible. At 1 h after termination of status epilepticus apparently irreversible pathology (dark cell change, &quot;ischaemic cell change&quot;) concerns predominantly the polymorphic neurons.
Late embryonic and early postnatal rat hippocampal primordia were labelled with [3H]thymidine for varying periods in explant culture before being implanted into hippocampi of adult hosts. The types and distributions of nuclear-labelled cells were determined autoradiographically at 1 month after operation. The labelling of small pyramidal neurons and dentate granule cells was in accordance with their time of normal developmental origin, the dentate granule cells forming distinctive shells with an appropriate gradient of cell accretion. There was a high proportion of labelled glial cells in the transplants, and a massive accumulation around the interface with the host. Labelled glia migrate for up to 2 mm into the host tissue. Labelled endothelial cells occur in vessels in the transplant, in wide-diameter marginal vessels and in two specific types of vascular configuration in the host. Thus the establishment of embryonic hippocampal transplants is associated with a major migration of non-neuronal cells into the host brain, and the formation of specific types of tissue chimaera. This chimaera formation is essential (e.g. in the case of blood vessels) for the survival of the transplant and the routes of glial cell migration may determine the pathways along which transplant nerve fibres can penetrate the host.
The ultrastructure of rat neurohypophyses incubated in vitro was studied to investigate secretion-related changes that may be intrinsic to the isolated neurohypophysis and to establish the morphological integrity of this preparation. Neurohypophyses were incubated for 2 h in an in vitro chamber in medium of low (290 mosM/kg), normal (310 mosM/kg), or high (340 mosM/kg) osmolality. Subsequent morphometric analyses at the ultrastructural level revealed that the number of axons completely enclosed by pituicyte cytoplasm was inversely related and the amount of neuro-vascular contact was directly related to the osmolality of the medium. These results mimic those found in preparations from in vivo experiments with hydrated and dehydrated rats. The number of pituicyte liposomes did not vary consistently with osmolality. We conclude that: dynamic interactions between pituicytes and neurosecretory axons may be stimulated, at least in part, by the immediately surrounding milieu; pituicytes may have an active role as modulators of hormone release; and the in vitro neurohypophysis provides a suitable model to study events intrinsic to this area.
The spinal cord was transected in adult New Zealand White rabbits anaesthetized with urethane plus chloralose. The level of transection was in the mid-cervical region. The animals were than ventilated mechanically and the arterial blood pressure was maintained with an intravenous infusion of noradrenaline solution. Stimulation of the hypothalamus 1-2 mm lateral to the third ventricle and 1.5-3 mm dorsal to the mammillary nuclei, in a region known to evoke pressor responses and bradycardia in normal anaesthetized rabbits, never evoked pressor responses in the spinally transected rabbits. Bradycardia was evoked only when the mean arterial blood pressure was maintained above 44-49 mmHg. At higher pressures stimulation evoked a greater bradycardia and the relationship between bradycardia and pressure was approximately linear over much of the range of pressures tested (up to 116 mmHg). Because the threshold mean arterial blood pressure at which hypothalamic stimulation evoked bradycardia was similar to the threshold pressures reported in the literature for baroreceptor activation in the rabbit and because the curve of bradycardia:pressure was similar to published curves of baroreceptor and baroreflex activity against blood pressure, it is concluded that the bradycardia evoked by hypothalamic stimulation in the rabbit is mediated by a neural pathway in the hypothalamus that can increase the gain of the cardio-inhibitory baroreceptor reflex.
Trigemino-diencephalic connections were studied in the rat using wheat-germ agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase as an anterogradely transported axonal tracer. Injection of the tracer into the subnucleus principalis produced two foci of dense labelling: one ventromedial: and one dorsal within the medial part of the ventrobasal complex. Other diencephalic structures containing granules of reaction product were the medial part of the medial geniculate body, the ventral area of the zona incerta and the nucleus lateralis posterior, pars lateralis. Injection of the tracer into the subnucleus interpolaris labelled the same structures, but less densely. After an injection into the subnucleus caudalis, labelling was observed in the same thalamic areas, although projections to the zona incerta or the lateralis posterior were not consistent. Additional labelling was observed in the subfascicular area of the mesodiencephalic junction, the nucleus submedius and the intralaminar nuclei centralis medialis and lateralis. In those cases of injection into the subnuclei principalis and interpolaris, all observed thalamic sites of projection were contralateral to the injection site. Following injection into the subnucleus caudalis, projections toward lateral thalamic structures were contralateral, but the nucleus submedius and the intralaminar nuclei exhibited bilateral labelling. Using high magnification (1250 X) with bright-field illumination, an analysis of the morphology of some terminal arborizations was attempted. Despite some technical limitations, the analysis indicated that in the ventrobasal complex, some terminal ramifications of axons originating from the three trigeminal subnuclei under study arborize so as to encompass a rounded area, the diameter of which could be as large as 100 microns, thereby resembling the classically described &quot;bushy arbors&quot;. Such arborizations could not be distinguished in the axons projecting to the medial part of the medial geniculate body. In this latter nucleus, the terminals appeared to arise from a stem fiber as short side branches at approximately right angles to the parent stem axon. In the other areas where afferent terminal labelling was observed, the density of the network of the labelled fibers often complicated the analysis of morphological features. However, arborizations such as those observed in the ventrobasal complex or the medial geniculate nucleus could not be distinguished.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The aim of the present study was to identify in the rat the diencephalic nuclei addressed by ascending collaterals of tecto-spinal neurons. For this purpose we made use of anterograde axonal transport method to determine the pattern of diencephalic projections arising from the lateral portion of the superior colliculus where most of tecto-spinal neurons are lying. Next, we used the antidromic activation method to analyse whether some of these colliculo-diencephalic projections were provided through collaterals of tecto-spinal neurons. Following injections of wheatgerm agglutinin, conjugated with horseradish peroxidase, in the lateral part of the superior colliculus, anterograde labelling was observed in: the contralateral superior colliculus, the ipsilateral pretectal nuclei, subthalamic area (zona incerta and Forel field) and thalamic structures namely: dorsal and ventral lateral geniculate, parafascicular, posterior nuclear group, reuniens nuclei and lateral portion of medio-dorsal nucleus. Moreover, bilateral projections were revealed in the following thalamic nuclei: lateral posterior, ventro-medial, paracentral and central-lateral. In the electrophysiological study we established that the thalamic nuclei medio-dorsal/central-lateral, paracentral, ventral-medial and the zona incerta receive ascending collaterals of the tecto-spinal neurons. In addition, an axonal branch to the contralateral superior colliculus was also revealed. The various ascending and descending collaterals of each branched neuron exhibited a similar conduction time for action potentials. It is thus likely that the tecto-spinal/tecto-diencephalic neurons provide a synchronized influence on their targets. The functional implication of such a branched collicular efferent pathway is discussed. Considering that tecto-spinal neurons are one of the collicular neuronal populations on which the substantia nigra exerts its influence, new perspectives in the analysis of basal ganglia collicular relationships are given.
The claustral projections to the cat's limbic cortex were investigated with horseradish peroxidase retrograde tracing technique and with autoradiography. Autoradiographic injections covered small portions of either the dorsal anterior claustrum or intermediate to posterior regions of the claustrum. Injections of horseradish peroxidase were made into the subicular, insular, entorhinal, prepiriform, cingulate, retrosplenial and prefrontal cortex. Both methods revealed fully consistent data for substantial claustral efferents to the cingulate, retrosplenial, entorhinal and subicular cortex. For the prepiriform cortex claustral efferents could be established unequivocally only with the horseradish peroxidase technique. Only a rather minor projection could be traced for the claustro-insular projection. Unilateral injections of horseradish peroxidase revealed the existence of a minor number of labeled claustral cells in the contralateral hemisphere for all loci except insular and prepiriform ones. Our data show that claustral cells reach the majority of the allocortical areas of the brain. They thereby confirm the view that the claustrum projects to most regions of the cortex and furthermore that a certain kind of topography exists in the claustro-cortical afferents with a minor number of claustral cells sending afferents to the contralateral cortical hemisphere. In addition, our data reveal that the distribution of claustro-cortical afferents is uneven and that the ventral claustrum (or nucleus endopiriformis) sends fibers to more cortical regions than previously assumed. It is suggested that the claustrum participates in the integration of sensory, motivational, emotional and mnemonic information via its reciprocal claustro-neocortical and its claustro-limbic connections.
The end-plate of a mammalian skeletal muscle fibre is innervated by several axons at the time of birth but by only one axon in the adult. In the rat soleus muscle the transition from polyneuronal to single innervation occurs during the first 2-3 weeks after birth. While it is evident that the loss of the excess nerve terminals depends to some extent on neuromuscular activity, the mechanism involved is not known. In the present experiments neonatal rat soleus muscles were stimulated in vitro in the presence of a variety of combinations of calcium, the cholinesterase inhibitor edrophonium and the proteolytic enzyme inhibitors leupeptin, pepstatin and Ep-475. Electron microscopical examination revealed that stimulation alone had little effect on the morphology of the end-plate region but stimulation in the presence of raised levels of calcium caused severe disruption of the nerve terminals and a marked reduction in the number of intact nerve terminal profiles contacting each end-plate. Contraction measurements showed that, in spite of this, the muscles were not functionally denervated to any large extent. The addition of edrophonium potentiated the morphological alterations but caused no further reduction in the number of profiles. Conversely, the protease inhibitors wholly or partially (in the case of Ep-475) prevented the effects of stimulation and calcium on the nerve terminals. These results are consistent with the idea that neuromuscular activity induces the secretion of proteolytic enzymes into the end-plate region, where they digest the immature nerve terminals. The importance of calcium suggests that the calcium-dependent neutral protease may be involved, and is also consistent with a secretory mechanism. The possibility that the nerve terminals are digested by their own proteases is also discussed.
In the hippocampus, antibody raised against vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) labeled perikarya and processes of non-pyramidal neurons whereas these structures remained unlabeled in pyramidal cells and granule cells. In the present study, VIP-immunostaining was used to investigate the fine structure and synaptic connections of identified non-pyramidal neurons and of immunoreactive axon terminals in the CA1 region of the rat hippocampus by means of electron microscopic immunocytochemistry. From a number of cells studied, two VIP-like immunoreactive non-pyramidal neurons in the regio superior were selected for an electron microscopic analysis of serial thin sections. These cells were different with regard to the location of their cell bodies and the orientation of their dendrites. One cell was located in the stratum lacunosum-moleculare with dendritic processes oriented parallel to the hippocampal fissure. The second neuron was found in the inner one-third of the stratum radiatum. The dendrites of this cell ran nearly parallel to the ascending apical dendrites of the pyramidal cells. Both cells had a round or ovoid perikaryon and an infolded nucleus. The aspinous dendrites of both neurons were densely covered with synaptic boutons. These terminals were small, filled with spherical vesicles, and established asymmetric synaptic contacts. No variations in the fine structure of the presynaptic boutons were found along the course of the labeled dendrites through the various hippocampal layers, although different afferents are known to terminate in these layers. Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-like immunopositive axon terminals course through all layers of the hippocampus. In the stratum pyramidale they established symmetric synaptic contacts with the perikarya of pyramidal cells. In the stratum radiatum they made symmetric contacts with the shafts of apical dendrites of pyramidal cells but never contacted dendritic spines. The symmetric contacts with pyramidal cell perikarya suggest an involvement of the VIP-like immunoreactive axon terminals in pyramidal cell inhibition.
The effects of changes in the external calcium ion concentration [Ca2+]0 on segmental reflexes and the responses of motoneurons to bath applied agonists have been studied in the toad and rat spinal cords in vitro. Reducing [Ca2+]0 enhanced polysynaptic reflexes in the toad, with maximal discharges occurring at 0.3 mM. Monosynaptic reflexes in the rat were reduced by lowering [Ca2+]0. Responses of toad motoneurons to substance P and eledoisin-related peptide were enhanced by lowering [Ca2+]0, maximum responses occurring at 0.3 mM. Lowering [Ca2+]0 also enhanced responses to L-glutamate but the effect was smaller and less consistent. This effect of Ca2+ was abolished by the addition of tetrodotoxin to the bathing solution. Toad motoneuron responses to gamma-aminobutyrate and glycine were not affected by alterations in [Ca2+]0. Rat motoneuron responses to substance P and eledoisin-related peptide were also enhanced by reductions in [Ca2+]0 but the effect was more pronounced in younger (less than 5 days post partum) than older (5-10 days post partum) animals. These results are consistent with the idea that motoneuron responses to peptides in normal solutions result from activation of receptors on both motoneurons and interneurons: enhancement of the responses by lowering [Ca2+]0 results from the potentiation of the transynaptic component.
The localization of substance P-immunoreactive nervous structures in the newborn and adult human brainstem is studied by the indirect immunofluorescence technique of Coons and collaborators. Substance P-containing perikarya, nerve fibres and terminals are widely and unevenly distributed in several areas of the human brainstem, with a location similar to that described in other mammals; however, some remarkable differences are detectable, which speak in favour of the existence of species differences. For example, in the human brain there is a dense plexus of substance P-immunoreactive fibres in the cuneate fasciculus. The use of the newborn tissue is very helpful in the detection of the immunoreactive neuronal cell bodies. The comparative study of the newborn and the adult tissue reveals that the distribution of the substance P-like immunoreactivity changes in man during ontogeny and results in a more complete map of the substance P-containing neuron system.
Frozen sections 10 microns thick were cut from the retina of chicks which had been kept either in total darkness or in a well lit room. The sections were incubated with acetylcholinesterase before antibodies to [Leu] enkephalin, substance P or somatostatin were applied. Sections of bovine adrenals were treated similarly but they were developed only with antibodies to [Leu]enkephalin. There were low numbers of immunoreactive amacrine cells and processes when any of the three antibodies were used on sections of dark-adapted retinae. When the sections were treated with acetylcholinesterase, however, the enkephalin-like and substance P-like immunoreactivity was enhanced while there was no effect on somatostatin. Counts of immunofluorescent cells indicated that the numbers had increased to levels like those found in light-adapted retinae. The adrenal also showed an enhanced enkephalin-like immunoreaction after treatment with the enzyme. Incubation with buffer alone or with enzyme together with 10 mM acetylcholine abolished the reaction. Acetylcholinesterase treatment of sections from light-adapted retinae had no discernible effect on the already high immunoreaction found using any of the three antisera. It is concluded that the peptidase activity of acetylcholinesterase has the capacity to hydrolyze proteins of which some may be the precursor molecules for the enkephalins and substance P. Since the amacrine cells that contain the enkephalin-like and the substance P-like immunoreactivity were found to contain acetylcholinesterase, it is possible that the action found here in vitro represents a physiological function of the enzyme. The immunoreactivity on which there was no effect, somatostatin, does not co-exist with acetylcholinesterase. A second conclusion that may be drawn from these data is that the dark-adapted retinae lose immunoreactive peptide because of the rate of processing; the results suggest that there is adequate precursor molecule available to maintain &quot;control&quot; levels.
The projections of the nucleus of the diagonal band of Broca and of the substantia innominata to the cerebral cortex were studied in the rat, using the anterograde transport of wheat germ agglutinin conjugated with horseradish peroxidase. Following diagonal band injections, fibers were observed ascending in the septum and reaching the cingulate cortex. They had a rostrocaudal, horizontal direction, mostly in layer VI and could be followed over long distances on sagittal sections. The fibers gave off collaterals which were seen ascending in the cerebral cortex and reaching more superficial layers. Following substantia innominata injections, fibers were observed to take two routes: the first one identical to the one described above and a second through the caudate-putamen reaching the temporo-insular cortex. Terminal fields had a more diffuse distribution following substantia innominata than following diagonal band injections. No clear laminar pattern of termination was observed. However the density of terminals was higher in layers IV, V and VI than in layers I, II and III. Since the conjugate used is not taken up by fibers of passage, this pattern of connection is believed to reflect the organization of the projection of the nucleus of the diagonal band and of the substantia innominata to the cerebral cortex.
The sensitivity of Purkinje cells to short pulse applications of L-aspartate, L-glutamate and related derivatives in their dendritic fields was tested in normal and staggerer mutant mice using cerebellar slices maintained in vitro. In normal mice, the response of Purkinje cells to L-aspartate and L-glutamate consisted of a transient and dose-dependent increase of their firing of simple spikes. The potency of L-aspartate in exciting Purkinje cells was lower than that of L-glutamate when the two drugs were released from adjacent barrels of the same iontophoretic electrode. Quisqualate was an even more potent excitant of these cells than L-aspartate and L-glutamate, whereas N-methyl-DL-aspartate had little or no effect. In staggerer mutant mice, the sensitivity of Purkinje cells to L-aspartate, L-glutamate and quisqualate was not significantly altered. On the contrary, N-methyl-DL-aspartate had a much stronger potency than normal in exciting Purkinje cells although this was still smaller than that of the other agonists tested. These results suggest that the sensitivity of Purkinje cells to L-aspartate and L-glutamate, i.e. the putative neurotransmitters of the climbing and parallel fibers respectively, remains largely normal in staggerer mice. In contrast, in the mutant, N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors are likely to be much more developed than normal.
In slices of hypothalamus, maintained in vitro, the discharge of supraoptic neurons in standard artificial cerebrospinal fluid was compared with that produced when extracellular Ca2+ was replaced with Mg2+, Co2+ or Mn2+. Interspike interval histograms were constructed for periods before, during and after replacement of extracellular Ca2+. Of the 31 cells recorded in normal medium, 16 fired slowly and irregularly, 9 were phasic, 3 fired continuously at more than 3 spikes/s and 3 produced short, high frequency bursts of activity that were separated by slow irregular discharge. Interspike interval distributions were broad showing little preference for any one interval and intervals shorter than 30-50 ms were rare. The cell firing rate could be increased by the electrophoretic application of glutamate and under these conditions, the interval distributions became narrower as shorter intervals predominated. However, when cells discharged above 20 spikes/s, the spike amplitude declined rapidly and became indistinguishable from the noise. Replacement of extracellular Ca2+ with Mg2+, Co2+ or Mn2+ produced reversible changes in interspike interval distribution, although no consistent change in mean firing frequency was observed. Supraoptic neurons were now able to maintain relatively high frequency discharge (15-25 spikes/s) for longer periods; firing either continuously or periodically, and interspike intervals became grouped more closely at the shorter end of the normal distribution. However, no very short interspike were recorded. Less than 2% of all recorded intervals were shorter than 30 ms, even in cells exposed to test medium for 1-3 h and excited by application of glutamate.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Slices from rat cerebral cortex incubated in the presence of 2-deoxy[3H]glucose accumulate the sugar mainly in the form of its phosphorylated derivative. 2-Deoxy[3H]glucose uptake, measured under conditions of initial velocity, is stimulated by 50-100% in the presence of depolarising agents (KCl, veratridine) or the excitatory amino acids L- and D-glutamate, L-aspartate and L-cysteate in millimolar concentrations. In contrast a variety of putative neurotransmitters are ineffective on this test. The stimulations elicited by KCl or excitatory amino acids consist in significant increases in both the apparent Km and Vmax values of the 2-deoxyglucose transport system. The effect of excitatory amino acids is not significantly modified in the presence of tetrodotoxin or when the extracellular Ca2+ concentration is diminished, whereas it is significantly reduced in the presence of ouabain. Hence stimulation of 2-deoxy[3H]glucose uptake and phosphorylation may indirectly reflect the activation of Na+, K+-adenosine 5'-triphosphatases triggered by excitatory amino acids in target cells. The stimulation of 2-deoxy[3H]glucose uptake elicited by the three excitatory amino acids is antagonised in an apparently competitive manner by glutamate diethyl ester (apparent Ki value of congruent to 15 mM) whereas the KCl-induced stimulation is not modified. In contrast a variety of other amino acid agonists (including quisqualate, kainate, N-methyl D-aspartate) or antagonists (including gamma-D-glutamyl glycine acid and 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate) are inactive, indicating that the metabolic response is not mediated by any of the receptor subclasses identified electrophysiologically.
In experiments with the use of a push-pull cannula and simultaneous recording of electrical activity at the site of perfusion, the release of L-[3H]glutamic acid from rat neostriatum induced by K+-depolarization (60 mM K+ in perfusate) has been shown to be inhibited by replacing Ca2+ in the perfusion medium by Co2+. In contrast, release of L-[3H]glutamate induced by electrical stimulation of frontal cortex is enhanced by replacement of these cations. Application of dopamine (10(-5)-10(-3) M). apomorphine (10(-4) M) or beta-phenylethylamine (10(-3) M) as well as stimulation of the substantia nigra enhanced the basal release of L-[3H]glutamate. Haloperidol (10(-4) M) completely abolished the effects of apomorphine and beta-phenylethylamine, and partially abolished the effect of dopamine. The enhancement induced by apomorphine is strongly dependent on the presence of Na+ in the perfusion medium. On the other hand, apomorphine (10(-4) M) and beta-phenylethylamine (10(-3) M) inhibited the release of glutamate induced by electrical stimulation of the frontal cortex and that by K+-depolarization (the latter was shown for apomorphine). This inhibition is also abolished by haloperidol. A possible functional role of endogenous dopamine in the regulation of glutamatergic neurotransmission in rat neostriatum is discussed.

(-)-[3H]Bremazocine interacts almost equally well with the mu-, delta- and kappa-types of opioid binding sites. In homogenates of guinea-pig cerebellum, it was bound with high affinity (KD = 0.046 nM) and the maximum binding capacity was 7.04 pmol/g wet wt of tissue. When the mu- and delta-binding of (-)-[3H]bremazocine was prevented with unlabelled ligands, a KD of 0.034 nM and a capacity of 5.94 pmol/g tissue was found for the kappa-binding site, which therefore comprised 84% of the opioid binding sites in the cerebellum. Autoradiographic analysis showed that the binding of (-)-[3H]bremazocine was relatively low in lobules IX and X and that it was predominantly located in the molecular and to a lesser extent in the granular layers. The addition of unlabelled mu- and delta-ligands did not alter the distribution. Thus, the guinea-pig cerebellum contains opioid binding sites of which almost all are of the kappa-type and is therefore an ideal tissue for the isolation of kappa-receptors and for the investigation of their biochemical and pharmacological properties.
In rats under urethane anaesthesia gamma-aminobutyric acid agonists and uptake blockers were microiontophoretically applied in the pyramidal layer of CA1 and in the apical dendrites using a twin set of multibarrelled micropipettes. Thus, the somatic and dendritic field potentials elicited by commissural stimulation were recorded simultaneously and the effects of iontophoretic applications at either site studied. Somatic applications of gamma-aminobutyric acid, isoguvacine or muscimol produced an inhibition of the somatic population spike; this showed rapid fade and was followed by an &quot;off&quot; response i.e. an enhancement of the population spike discharge and the occurrence of a second (and occasionally third) spike. The order of potency with regard to the &quot;off&quot; response was muscimol greater than isoguvacine much greater than gamma-aminobutyric acid. In contrast, the inhibition of the population spike produced by 4,5,6,7-tetrahydroisoxazolo(5,4-C) pyridin 3-OL showed little fade and no prominent &quot;off&quot; response. The fade and &quot;off&quot; response were not associated with significant changes in the dendritic field excitatory postsynaptic potential concommittantly recorded and were exclusively restricted to the immediate vicinity of the pyramidal layer. Ejection of gamma-aminobutyric acid and its agonists in the stratum radiatum produced a reduction of the field excitatory postsynaptic potential and the somatic spike, this effect however showed no fade (even during prolonged applications of high doses) and no &quot;off&quot; response. Somatic applications of the uptake blockers nipecotic acid or guvacine consistently produced: an increase in the effectiveness of the inhibition produced by gamma-aminobutyric acid and its analogues: a decrease in the latency to peak of the inhibition and an increase in the time to recovery; a full blockade of the fade and the &quot;off&quot; response. All of these effects were rapid and fully reversible without significant changes in either the field excitatory postsynaptic potential or the (control) somatic spikes. The more specific glial uptake blocker, 4,5,6,7-tetrahydroisoxazolo(4,5-C) pyridin 3-OL occasionally blocked the &quot;off&quot; response, however it was less potent and also tended to reduce the spike amplitude. Dendritic applications of the uptake blockers reduced the excitatory postsynaptic potential and the somatic spike but failed to produce prominent changes in the action of gamma-aminobutyric acid and its analogues.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The experiments were designed to explore the role of retinal inputs compared with that of the behavioral state in the modulation of the output of thalamic lateral geniculate neurons during sleep and wakefulness in cats with intact visual pathways. We made the following assumptions: the retinal dark discharge, while showing spontaneous pauses in activity, does not vary with the behavioral state; the optic tract inputs postsynaptically elicit subthreshold activities called S-potentials which in turn generate spikes, the degree of transformation being dependent on the level of alertness. On the basis of these assumptions, it could be expected that changes in retinal input frequency would modify the rate of the S-potentials. Therefore the effect of spontaneous decreases in frequency of S-potentials on the spike rate and pattern was examined in juxta- and intracellular recordings from chronically implanted cats during natural sleep and wakefulness. During quiet wakefulness and light slow-wave sleep, lateral geniculate relay neurons normally displayed numerous S-potentials associated with a moderate firing rate. Many neurons occasionally showed transient reductions in frequency of the S-potentials and an oversimplification of the discharges which combined a decreased rate with a prevalent rhythmical burst pattern. Antidromic responsiveness remained unchanged. The oscillatory periods recurred two to six times without any alteration in the control state level. They were not observed throughout wakefulness and paradoxical sleep, during which neuronal activity combined a high spike rate with a low S-potential rate. The modifications were confirmed by computation of the mean rates and of the inter-event intervals. The transfer ratio (spikes/S-potentials + spikes) significantly increased both during the oscillatory periods poor in S-potentials of quiet wakefulness and during active wakefulness. But the correlation between the transfer ratio and the spike frequency, which was high throughout the control behavioral states, faded during the periods poor in S-potentials. Thus the transient falls in the frequency of S-potentials which occurred spontaneously during quiet wakefulness caused burst discharges in lateral geniculate relay neurons, which resembled a sleep deepening, but also paralleled the effect of experimental deafferentation. The data indicate that the iterative spikes grouped in well spaced bursts which persisted during decreases in subthreshold postsynaptic activities result in an enhanced signal-to-noise ratio.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Consistent penetration of cell membranes by micropipettes is facilitated by using electrode accelerators or high velocity step drives. Notwithstanding, much intracellular work is still done with conventional mechanical or hydraulic drives; cell membrane penetration is achieved by means of gentle taps on any convenient part of the set up. A remote control device is described which performs this function and is compact enough to be fixed on either the microelectrode holder or the preparation mounting. It consists of a small magnetized rod freely suspended in a pot-core coil. A current pulse through the coil jolts the rod; the inertial reaction of the coil frame provides the sudden movement required by the micropipette tip to overcome the elastic resistance of the cell membrane.

Snider 's pioneering studies of tactile responses in the cerebellar cortex of cats and monkeys suggested that posterior regions of the cerebellar hemispheres receive somatotopically organized projections. However, recent studies in rats, using high-density, in depth microelectrode mapping methods, have shown that tactile projections to the granule cell layer of the cerebellar hemispheres are somatotopically disrupted. We reexamined the organization of cutaneous projections to cerebellar hemispheric cortex in cats by using micromapping methods. Natural stimulation of cutaneous surfaces evokes short-latency (mossy-fiber-induced) multiple unit responses in the cerebellar granule cell layer of crus II and paramedian lobule in both ketamine- and barbiturate-anesthetized cats. Facial structures are represented in several of the most caudomedial folia of crus II as well as in three of the rostral folia of the paramedian lobule. In several of these paramedian folia, facial projections are interspersed with projections from the forelimb. Forelimb structures alone are represented in two intermediate folia of the paramedian lobule. No cutaneous projections were found from the trunk or hindlimb. All projections were from ipsilateral receptive fields. In four folia of crus II and six folia of the paramedian lobule, cutaneous projections form a mosaic of patchlike projections. Within single patches, projections are somatotopically organized, but projections to adjacent patches come from noncontiguous body regions. Within a single folium , a particular facial region may be represented in two or three spatially separated patches. Facial patches are small, usually less than 1 mm2. Forelimb patches are usually larger, often extending the full length and breadth of a folial crown. Patches with like receptive fields are not organized in zonal sagittal strips. Rather than being somatotopically organized, cutaneous mossy fiber projections to granule cells in cats, as in rats, reveal a more complex mosaic pattern of organization.


Using a digitizing pad instead of a ruler and calipers accelerates and increases the accuracy of graphic data analysis. Factors important in choosing and using such a pad are discussed in this article. A program is presented which facilitates use of the Houston Instruments HiPad DT11, a digitizing pad which is particularly well suited to neurophysiological applications.
A special device is described which allows experiments to be performed on chronic non-anaesthetized geese. This system is composed of two elements: one is fixed to the stereotaxic apparatus, the other is implanted on the goose skull. The use of ear bars and eye and bill pieces is thus eliminated. This non-painful adaptation is well tolerated by the bird. In addition, the position of the animal with regard to stereotaxic coordinates is unchanged. This technique provides an essential tool for furthering investigations on the central nervous system in geese.
Developments of an open-field water-maze procedure in which rats learn to escape from opaque water onto a hidden platform are described. These include a procedure (A) for automatically tracking the spatial location of a hooded rat without the use of attached light-emitting diodes; (B) for studying different aspects of spatial memory (e.g. working memory); and (C) for studying non-spatial discrimination learning. The speed with which rats learn these tasks suggests that they may lend themselves to a variety of behavioural investigations, including pharmacological work and studies of cerebral function.
A method for the construction of a small, atraumatic, bipolar electrode is described. The use of the electrode is demonstrated, and its advantages are compared with some traditional stimulating electrodes. The electrode is useful on small, relatively inaccessible nerve trunks in small animals.
A simple and low-cost device is described which facilitates the calibration of intracellular DC recordings in amplitude and time. A current source, optically coupled to a conventional stimulator, injects a pulse of current, across a 1-omega resistor connecting the preparation to ground. Amplitude and duration of the current pulse are determined by adjusting the voltage output of the conventional stimulator. By linking the preparation to ground through a resistor of 1 omega the background noise and the DC shifts in the voltage trace of the intracellular recording are kept to a minimum.

The neuronal connectivity underlying the vestibulo-ocular reflexes in cat and rabbit was evaluated in the light of quantitative data of the spatial orientation on semicircular canals and extraocular muscles. Neuronal connectivity was calculated using a matrix-analysis of the sensory and motor periphery, and of the brain stem pathways connecting semicircular canals and extraocular muscles. Two cases of vestibulo-ocular reflex compensation were considered. In the first case, vestibulo-oculor reflex compensation was assumed to be isotropic, i.e. the vestibulo-ocular reflex gain is the same for all directions of rotation. In the second case, the vestibulo-oculor reflex gain was assumed to be anisotropic with the &quot;torsional&quot; gain smaller than the &quot;horizontal&quot; and &quot;vertical&quot; gains. The theoretical calculation predicts that besides the principal vestibulo-ocular reflex pathways (classical three-neuron-arc connectivity), several accessory connections (other than principal connections, regardless of the synapses involved) exist which are characteristic for each species. These accessory connections were compared to physiological and anatomical data. In the cat theoretical connections for an isotropic vestibulo-ocular reflex gain agree with pathways observed experimentally, of which the most characteristic are excitatory connections to the superior rectus and inhibitory connections to the inferior rectus muscle from both of the anterior canals, and a mirror image pattern of connections from the posterior canals. In the rabbit experimentally obtained data and calculated connections rarely agree. However, for an anisotropic gain we find a higher rate of coincidence between experimental and theoretical connections. Our evaluation indicates, that accessory vestibulo-ocular reflex pathways serve to compensate for the incongruence between semicircular canal and extraocular muscle planes, at least in the cat. Available experimental data suggest an important role of a special subclass of accessory pathways via axon collaterals of principal projections (three-neuron-arc nature). With certain restrictions, the presented method of calculation promises to be a useful tool for a quantitative analysis of the vestibulo-ocular reflex.
The spatial relationship between extraocular muscles and semicircular canals was evaluated in cat (frontal-eyed animal) and rabbit (lateral-eyed animal). Semicircular canal orientations in the rabbit were determined by a principal components analysis of data points obtained from the exposed osseous canals using a three-axis micromanipulator. Canal orientations were presented in terms of unit sensitivity vectors. Orientation of extraocular muscles in rabbits and cats was derived from measurements of the insertion and origin of each muscle with respect to a reference point on the skull and a calculated estimate of the center of the eye. Muscle orientations were presented in terms of unit action vectors. Semicircular canal planes of the rabbit labyrinth were not orthogonal, having deviations up to 14 degrees. Pairs of antagonistically acting vertical semicircular canals, left (right) anterior-right (left) posterior deviated from coplanarity by 16 degrees, while the deviation for the horizontal canals was 9 degrees. In both animals, muscles of an antagonistic pair were coplanar to within 8 degrees, with the exception of the oblique muscles in the rabbit for which the deviation was 19 degrees. The three pairs of antagonistic muscles were almost orthogonal to each other, the maximum deviation between any of the pairs being 8 degrees in the cat and 18 degrees in the rabbit. Comparing extraocular muscle planes and semicircular canal planes reveals that they are roughly aligned. However, there were slight but consistent differences between a given semicircular canal plane and the planes of the muscles to which this canal is connected by the classical three-neuron-arc (principal vestibulo-ocular reflex circuits).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Extracellular recordings were obtained in decerebrate cats from neurons located in the inhibitory area of the medullary reticular formation, namely in the medial aspects of the nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis, magnocellularis and ventralis. Of 127 medullary reticular units examined, 77 were reticulospinal neurons antidromically identified following stimulation of the spinal cord at T12-L1; the remaining 50 neurons were not activated antidromically. Unit firing rate was analyzed under separate stimulation of macular vestibular, neck, or combined receptors by using sinusoidal rotations about the longitudinal axis at 0.026 Hz, 10 peak amplitude. Among the 127 reticular units, 84 (66.1%) responded with a periodic modulation of their firing rate to roll tilt of the animal and 93 (73.2%) responded to neck rotation. Convergence of macular and neck inputs was found in 71/127 (55.9%) reticular neurons; in these units, the gain as well as the sensitivity of the first harmonic of response corresponded on the average to 0.49 +/- 0.41, SD imp/s/deg and 5.10 +/- 4.27, SD %/deg for the neck responses and to 0.40 +/- 0.39, SD imp/s/deg and 3.90 +/- 3.80, SD %/deg for the macular responses, respectively. Most of the convergent reticular units were maximally excited by the direction of stimulus orientation, the first hormonic or responses showing an average phase lead of about +42.7 with respect to neck position and +24.9 with respect to animal position. Two populations of convergent neurons were observed. The first group of units (58/71, i.e. 81.7%) showed reciprocal (&quot;out of phase&quot;) responses to the two inputs in that they were mainly excited during side-down neck rotation, but inhibited during side-down animal tilt. The remaining group of units (13/71, i.e. 18.3%) showed parallel (&quot;in phase&quot;) responses to the two inputs and they were mainly excited by side-down neck rotation and animal tilt. The response characteristics of medullary reticular neurons to the combined neck and macular inputs, elicited during head rotation, closely corresponded to those predicted by a vectorial summation of the individual neck and macular responses. In particular, &quot;out of phase&quot; units displayed small amplitudes and large phase leads of the responses with respect to head position, when both types of receptors were costimulated. In contrast, &quot;in phase&quot; units displayed large amplitude and small phase leads during head rotation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Intracellular recordings of the light response of retinal Mller glial cells revealed differential effects of optical isomers of alpha-aminoadipic acid, a putative gliotoxin. L-alpha-aminoadipic acid preferentially abolished the &quot;on&quot; component but not the &quot;off&quot; component of the intracellularly recorded Mller cell light response, abolished the b-wave but not the d-wave of the electroretinogram, and caused histological damage to the Mller cells. D-alpha-aminoadipic acid preferentially reduced the &quot;off&quot; component of the Mller cell light response and the d-wave of the electroretinogram, and did not cause appreciable histological damage to the Mller cells. 2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid, which has been shown to act preferentially at the synapse of photoreceptors onto depolarizing bipolar cells in the mudpuppy retina, abolished the &quot;on&quot; response of Mller cells and the b-wave of the electroretinogram, but caused no histological damage to the Mller glial cells. None of the agents caused a significant change in the resting membrane potential of the glial cells. The similarity of the electrical effects of L-alpha-aminoadipic acid and 2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid suggests that the initial loss of the b-wave following L-alpha-aminoadipic acid treatment is due to action of the amino acid at a synaptic site via a mechanism distinct from that which causes subsequent histological damage to the glial cells.
Daily hydrocortisone injections into newborn rats cause in a week about a 10-fold increase in the number of small intensely fluorescent cells in the superior cervical ganglion of the rat, as compared with untreated rats of the same age. The glucocorticoid-induced increase in the number of small intensely fluorescent cells is reversible. After discontinuation of the glucocorticoid treatment there is a significant decrease in the number of these cells during the 2nd postnatal week. The purpose of the present study was to investigate the significance of the innervation of the superior cervical ganglion on the fate of newly formed, hydrocortisone-induced small intensely fluorescent cells after discontinuation of the hydrocortisone treatment. Three-day-old rats were injected daily with hydrocortisone for 7 days. At the age of 10 days the pre- and/or postganglionic trunk(s) on one side were divided and the contralateral side served as control. Seven or thirty days after discontinuation of the hydrocortisone injections and the operation (i.e. at the age of 17 or 40 days) the rats were killed and the small intensely fluorescent cells were counted. The number of small intensely fluorescent cells, as expected, was greatly increased by the hydrocortisone injections. However, discontinuation of the treatment resulted in a decrease in the number of these cells in unoperated 40-day-old rats to a level, which is significantly less than the mean cell number/ganglion in totally untreated adult rats.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Degeneration of neuromuscular junctions in the iris muscle was observed to have occurred 4 days after ciliary nerve crush. By day 10 reinnervation had commenced and by day 30 the maturation of neuromuscular junctions was nearly complete. The loss and recovery of acetylcholinesterase activity in the iris muscle paralleled the denervation-reinnervation process, with recovery being completed by day 30, whereas the loss in the activity of choline acetyltransferase had not yet completely recovered at this time. The acetylcholinesterase activity localized cytochemically at synaptic sites followed the same trend as the total activity in the iris muscle, whereas acetylcholinesterase localized at myo-muscular junctions showed only slight changes. The acetylcholinesterase molecular forms displayed changes in their relative proportions, which could be related to the time course of the denervation-reinnervation process and to the cytochemical localization of the activity.
Several tissues of the developing chick embryo have been reported to contain neurotrophic activity which can sustain the survival of sensory neurons maintained in culture. In a previous study, however, we noted that such nerve growth promoting activity was exceptionally low, if not absent, from extracts of spinal cord from chick embryos of up to 16 days incubation. Since then the combined results from a number of tissue culture studies have suggested that the central nervous system may be the source of a neurotrophic growth factor essential during the late development of sensory neurons. We have therefore carried out an extended range study of the neurotrophic properties of avian spinal cord. Extracts of spinal cord tissue prepared from chicks at stages between the last wk of embryogenesis and 12 wks after hatching were tested for their ability to promote survival and neurite outgrowth from both explant and dissociated neuron-enriched cultures of dorsal root, trigeminal, nodose and paravertebral chain sympathetic ganglia from chick embryos between 8 and 16 days old. We conclude from our results that spinal cord is a potent source of neurotrophic activity for sensory neurons, although this activity appears relatively late in development of the spinal cord. The predominant ontogenic increase in spinal cord neurotrophic activity was seen to occur during the first week after hatching. Sensory neurons from both spinal and cranial nerve ganglia were sustained in culture by spinal cord extracts, whereas sympathetic neurons did not respond. Neurons from older sensory ganglia (12-16 day old embryos) were much more responsive than similar neurons from young embryos (8 day).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The content of free amino acids in the central nervous system, the uptake of taurine by slices and synaptosomes and taurine binding to synaptic membranes have been studied on adult male Wistar rats after a prolonged administration of 2-guanidinoethanesulphonate with or without a taurine-free diet. The 2-guanidinoethanesulphonate administration both alone and together with a taurine-free diet considerably reduced taurine levels in all regions studied, viz. cerebrum, cerebellum, brain stem and spinal cord, but the contents of methionine and gamma-aminobutyric acid were increased. On the normal diet the maximal taurine loss occurred after a 3-week 2-guanidinoethanesulphonate administration, when also the 2-guanidinoethanesulphonate accumulation in the cerebrum was largest. On the taurine-free diet the taurine levels were still low after the 4-week 2-guanidinoethanesulphonate administration when the taurine content in cerebral synaptosomes was also reduced to almost one half. 2-Guanidinoethanesulphonate treatment modified the uptake and binding processes of taurine in the synaptosomal preparations. The maximal high-affinity taurine uptake was reduced, whereas the affinity of the specific sodium-independent binding sites for taurine increased. The results suggest that the neuromodulator properties of taurine could be affected by the reduced taurine levels and/or by the accumulated 2-guanidinoethanesulphonate.
The effects of hypertonic solutions on the spontaneous and evoked catecholamine release from isolated, perfused cat adrenal glands were studied. Hypertonic solutions enhanced three times the spontaneous release of the amines, but markedly inhibited the release evoked by nicotine (5 microM for 2 min) or high K+ (17.7 mM for 2 min). Using sucrose as osmoticant, the secretory response to high K+ was decreased to 53 and 15% of controls at 344 and 416 mosM, respectively. At 512 mosM sucrose inhibited poorly the release of catecholamines evoked by nicotine, but reduced it by 90% at 1000 mosM; sodium chloride behaved similarly to sucrose. A rise in the osmolarity of only 7.5% with choline chloride produced a complete inhibition of the K+-evoked response. These effects were not seen using isotonic choline chloride; on the contrary, isotonic choline chloride enhanced the K+ response, probably by stimulating nicotinic receptors. Since atropine did not modify this effect, it seems that secretion of catecholamines evoked by choline is mediated by nicotinic receptors. While the inhibitory effects of sucrose and NaCl were completely reversed when the tonicity of the perfusion medium was restored to its normal value (320 mosM), the effects of choline seemed to be long lasting and were reversed only partially. It is worth noting that the inhibitory effects of hyperosmotic solutions developed very fast.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Reflex effects of cutaneous mechanical stimulation on adrenal sympathetic efferent nerve activity and secretion rates of the adrenal medullary hormones (epinephrine and norepinephrine) were studied in anesthetized rats. Noxious pinching stimulation of the lower chest or hindpaw skin for 3 min produced proportional reflex increases in both the nerve activity and secretion rates of epinephrine and norepinephrine from the adrenal medulla in animals with an intact central nervous system. However, lower chest stimulation elicited a longer lasting response than hindpaw stimulation, 7-17 min vs 1 min after cessation of the stimulation, respectively. After spinal transection at the C1-2 level, only lower chest stimulation was capable of producing a reflex response, lasting 1 min after cessation of the stimulation. Contrary to the responses elicited by pinching, non-noxious brushing stimulation of the lower chest or hindlimb skin for 3 min in animals with an intact central nervous system produced proportional reflex decreases in nerve activity and epinephrine and norepinephrine secretion rates during the stimulation period only. Some slight increases in both nerve activity and secretion rates, lasting several minutes, followed cessation of the stimulation. However, in spinalized animals, non-noxious lower chest or hindlimb stimulation produced opposite effects, increasing both the nerve activity and secretion rates of epinephrine and norepinephrine. In spinalized animals lower chest brushing stimulation elicited a much stronger response than hindlimb brushing stimulation. It was concluded that; (1) the secretion of adrenal medullary hormones can be controlled reflexly by mechanical cutaneous stimulation through the central nervous system via adrenal sympathetic efferent nerves; (2) the excitatory effect of the cutaneo-adrenal medullary reflexes was independent of noxious or non-noxious stimulation at the spinal level, whereas in rats with an intact central nervous system the effect was either excitatory or inhibitory in response to noxious or non-noxious stimulation, respectively; (3) there is a marked segmental organization of this reflex at the spinal level which is modified into a generalized response through supraspinal central structures.
The effects of morphine administered intravenously and intracerebrally in the cortical amygdala and periaqueductal gray were examined on spontaneous neuronal activity in the hypothalamic ventromedial nucleus in both intact and castrated adult male rats. Spontaneous extracellular single unit activity in the ventromedial nucleus was significantly faster in chronically castrated (19-23 days) rats compared with intact control rats (6.0 +/- 1.1 and 2.5 +/- 0.3 spikes/s, respectively). Neurons in the ventromedial nucleus exhibited a significant attenuation of neuronal activity following the intravenous administration of morphine; the maximal per cent decrease (to 25% of the control unit activity) was the same in both castrated and intact rats, but cell firing in castrated rats was affected more at lower doses of morphine. When microinjected bilaterally in the cortical amygdala or periaqueductal gray (5 micrograms/site), morphine produced the same maximal depression of unit activity in the ventromedial nucleus as when administered intravenously. The time required to significantly attenuate unit activity in the ventromedial nucleus was the same (3 min) whether morphine was administered intravenously or bilaterally in the periaqueductal gray. When microinjected bilaterally in the cortical amygdala, the depressant effect of morphine on cell firing in the ventromedial nucleus was significant first at 10 min. These data correlate well with the time courses for depression of serum levels of luteinizing hormone produced by morphine microinjected in the same doses in the same extrahypothalamic sites in the rat. In view of the relatively high levels of specific opiate receptor binding in both the periaqueductal gray and amygdala, this report further supports a role for modulation by extrahypothalamic areas of opioid-induced changes in the functional activity of the hypothalamic-pituitary axis, perhaps via the ventromedial nucleus.
To determine whether endogenous dopamine is involved in the impairment of body temperature induced by neurotensin, the local activity of [14C]dopamine in the hypothalamus of the unanesthetized rat was examined. A push-pull guide tube was implanted permanently above an intended site of perfusion within the anterior hypothalamic, pre-optic area or other region of the diencephalon. After the endogenous stores of dopamine at a specific site were labelled by microinjection of 0.02-0.05 muCi of [14C]dopamine, an artificial cerebrospinal fluid was perfused at the site at a rate of 20 microliter/min and at successive 5 min intervals. Perfusion of neurotensin in concentrations of 0.05 or 0.1 microgram/microliter in the dorsomedial hypothalamus, lateral hypothalamus, arcuate nucleus or diagonal band of Broca evoked a calcium-dependent efflux of [14C]dopamine. The release of dopamine induced by neurotensin was functionally specific since it was: (1) not mimicked by the relatively inactive neurotensin analogue, [D-Arg9]neurotensin; (2) dependent on the morphological locus of the push-pull perfusion; and (3) not accompanied by an efflux of [3H]norepinephrine when the site was double-labelled. Although neurotensin perfused in the anterior hypothalamic, pre-optic area caused a consistent decline in temperature, in most cases the temperature change did not correlate with an enhanced release of dopamine. Moreover, the release of dopamine, but not the temperature change, was abolished when neurotensin was perfused in a calcium-free medium. These results show that it is unlikely that the thermolytic action of neurotensin, at least within the hypothalamus, is mediated by the presynaptic release of dopamine.
Rats received either ibotenic acid, electrolytic or sham lesions of the lateral hypothalamic area. Compared to sham operated rats, both lesion groups showed aphagia and adipsia following the lesion; this was less severe in the ibotenic acid lesioned rats. Once recovered, the ibotenic acid lesioned rats showed residual regulatory impairments in their compensatory responses to glucoprivation and to extracellular and intracellular dehydration. However, unlike the electrolytic lesioned rats, those with ibotenic acid lesions did not show akinesia and exhibited normal responses to both d-amphetamine and apomorphine. Ibotenic acid lesions resulted in extensive loss of cell bodies within the lateral hypothalamic area while sparing ascending dopamine neurones. The results are interpreted as suggesting that the lateral hypothalamic area and ascending dopamine neurones are components of a single system involved in the regulation of food and water intake.
The distribution of enkephalin-like immunoreactivity in the superior colliculus has been studied in the cat with the peroxidase-antiperoxidase method. Two striking patterns of immunoreactivity were observed. In the superficial layers there is a thin, dense horizontal band of immunoreactivity in the neuropil of the most dorsal tier of the superficial gray layer (sublamina 1). Because this sublayer corresponds to the zone of densest contralateral retinotectal projection, an intraocular injection of horseradish peroxidase was made in one cat to allow direct comparison of the distributions of opiate-like immunoreactivity and transported tracer in the contralateral superior colliculus. There was a detailed similarity between the two, including the presence of a gap in both at the presumptive site of the optic disc representation. The presence of enkephalin-like immunoreactivity in neural perikarya in and near sublamina 1 of the superficial gray layer, however, raised the possibility that the immunoreactive band is part of an intrinsic opiate system. Deeper in the superficial gray layer there was appreciable but weaker immunoreactivity in the neuropil and fewer immunoreactive neurons. In the intermediate gray layer and, especially medially, even deeper in the superior colliculus, enkephalin-like immunoreactivity was organized into small (100-300 micron wide) patches. In the intermediate gray layer these tended to be arranged periodically, five-seven patches being spaced at 200-600 micron intervals in caudal transverse sections. In some sections adjoining patches appeared to be fused. The patches were absent or difficult to detect in rostral sections. Caudally, they sometimes were adjacent to blood vessels penetrating the intermediate gray layer, but other times were not. Serial section reconstructions suggested that the patches observed in individual sections are part of larger arrays which have the form of anastomotic bands running in longitudinal directions somewhat oblique to the sagittal plane. It is concluded that an opiate mechanism may play a part in controlling the effects of incoming retinal information in the superficial gray layer, directly or indirectly, and that opiate peptides may also act in modulating one or more afferent or efferent systems of the deep collicular layers. Accordingly, from the functional standpoint, enkephalin-like peptides may influence both visual and sensory motor processing in the superior colliculus.
Spinocervical tract neurons in the dorsal horn of the cat spinal cord were intracellularly stained with horseradish peroxidase. The neurons came from one intact animal and from animals with dorsal rhizotomies (L3-S2) 3, 5, 10, 28 and 42 days previously. The morphology of terminals associated with spinocervical tract neurons was examined in a combined light and electron microscopical study. Some terminals containing agranular, circular vesicles degenerated as a result of deafferentation; these are therefore the terminals forming monosynaptic inputs to the neurons from primary afferent fibres. Other terminals containing agranular circular vesicles and terminals containing ovoid agranular vesicles survived deafferentation; these boutons therefore do not originate from primary afferent fibres.
Electrophysiological and biochemical techniques were used to study midbrain dopamine systems. In the electrophysiological studies, projection areas of individual dopaminergic cells were identified by antidromic activation. Dopamine cells which innervate the piriform cortex and those that innervate the caudate nucleus demonstrated their usual dose-dependent inhibitory response to both the intravenous administration of the direct-acting dopamine agonist apomorphine and the microiontophoretic application of dopamine. In contrast, the firing rate of dopamine neurons which project to the prefrontal cortex and of those terminating in the cingulate cortex was not altered by either the intravenous administration of low to moderate doses of apomorphine or microiontophoretically applied dopamine. The mean basal discharge rate and degree of burst firing was also different between these subgroups of midbrain dopaminergic neurons. Mesoprefrontal and mesocingulate dopamine neurons had mean firing rates of 9.3 and 5.9 spikes/s respectively, and showed intense burst activity. Mesopiriform and nigrostriatal dopamine cells had discharge rates of 4.3 and 3.1 spikes/s and displayed only moderate bursting. The dopaminergic nature of those mesocortical neurons insensitive to apomorphine and dopamine was confirmed using combined intracellular recording and catecholamine histofluorescence techniques. Thus, after the intracellular injection of colchicine and subsequent processing for glyoxylic acid-induced histofluorescence, the injected cells could be identified by their brighter fluorescences compared to the surrounding, normally fluorescing, non-injected dopamine neurons. Using biochemical techniques, subgroups of midbrain dopaminergic systems were again found to differ. The administration of gamma-butyrolactone increased dopamine levels in all areas sampled (prefrontal, cingulate and piriform cortices as well as the caudate nucleus). However, although this effect was readily reversed in both the piriform cortex and caudate nucleus by pretreatment with apomorphine, this treatment had no effect on the increased dopamine levels observed in the prefrontal and cingulate cortices. In addition, the decline in dopamine levels after synthesis inhibition with alpha-methyltyrosine was significantly faster in the prefrontal and cingulate cortices relative to the caudate nucleus. The piriform cortex showed an intermediate decline which was not significantly different from that observed in any of the other regions.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
It has been suggested that the late hyperpolarisation following synaptic activation of hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons is activated by calcium influx. This hypothesis was examined using microelectrodes containing EGTA. Intracellular injection of EGTA blocked the afterhyperpolarisation which normally followed cell firing produced by injection of a depolarising current or the ionophoresis of glutamate onto the apical dendrites. In contrast, the hyperpolarisation following synaptic activation was resistant to EGTA. The results suggest that this potential is not dependent on intracellular Ca2+. Other possible mechanisms are discussed.
Neuronotrophic factors, a class of macromolecules thought to be present within the neuronal environment are required to support the survival in vitro of peripheral neurons. In the present study we have established bioassay culture systems suitable for the identification of similar agents for intrinsic neurons of the central nervous system. The striatum, hippocampus and septum of 18 day fetal rats were dissociated and plated in a serum-free medium on a neurite conducive substratum which allows an easy recognition of neurons under phase contrast microscopy. These cultures contain predominantly neurons as assessed by tetanus toxin labelling, a well recognized neuronal marker. Seeding the cell suspensions at decreasing densities yields after 24 h a density dependent survival of the neuronal population. Thus a low seeding density could be chosen where survival of these neurons required an exogenous source of trophic factors. Survival of central neurons was promoted by several conditioned media derived from rodent glial cell cultures, both primary (astroglia, Schwann) and clonal (C6 glioma, Schwannoma). Serial dilutions of these media allowed the titration of their respective neuronotrophic activities. In addition, conditioned media derived from the central neuronal cultures themselves, when seeded at a high density, were also able to support the survival of low density seeded central neurons.
The histamine-releasing peptide &quot;granuliberin&quot;, originally isolated from the skin of Rana rugosa, was localized by immunofluorescence within nerve cell bodies and fibers in the brain of Rana pipiens. The granuliberin-positive neurons were characterized ultrastructurally by electron microscopic observation of ultrathin sections stained either with immunoperoxidase or with conventional stains. Granuliberin-positive nerve cell bodies were seen throughout the hypothalamus, from the suprachiasmatic area rostrally to the full length of the periinfundibular grey matter caudally. Similarly positive nerve fibers were localized in the hypothalamus radiating upwards to the optic vesicles in the midbrain, extending through the preoptic area into the subpallium in the forebrain, and throughout the white matter surrounding the floor and lateral walls of the fourth ventricle in the brainstem. The granuliberin-positive nerve cells showed the presence of variable numbers of small cytoplasmic neurosecretory granules, possessing an electron dense elongated core, and measuring 250-350 nm in their largest diameter. The functional significance of a granuliberin-like peptide in neurons of the frog brain is not known.
Using antisera raised against neurofilaments and the glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) we have examined the appearance and distribution of neurofilament- and GFAP-like immunoreactivity in the enteric nervous system of rat, mouse and guinea-pig. In whole mounts of the external circular and longitudinal muscle layers, including the myenteric plexus, a high number of neurofilament-positive perikarya were visualized both in the ganglia and in the circularly running interconnecting strands in all three species. These cells were large, usually with eccentrically placed nuclei and single, relatively thick neurofilament-positive processes. In addition, in guinea-pig myenteric plexus a small number of cells with multiple processes could be seen. Both in the longitudinal and circular interconnecting strands a large number of thin, smooth, neurofilament-positive fibres were observed. This regular network of ganglia and strands was superimposed on a sparse system of thin, usually individual neurofilament-positive fibres in the underlying circular muscle layer. Cryostat sections revealed neurofilament-positive cell bodies in the submucous plexus, whereas fibres showing neurofilament-like immunoreactivity were observed in all layers of the gut wall, with the exception of the epithelium. In whole mounts including rat and mouse myenteric plexus, a large number of cells and fibres showing GFAP-like immunoreactivity were visualized. The GFAP-positive cells were smaller and more numerous than the neurofilament-positive ones. They were present both within the ganglia and in the interconnecting strands. Several short fluorescent processes could frequently be seen emanating from the cell body. Both the strands and the ganglia contained a high number of thin, GFAP-positive fibres. Fluorescent fibres and cells were also observed in the circular muscle layer. In sections of rat and mouse small intestine, cells were observed throughout the gut wall, with the exception of the epithelium. Double labelling experiments clearly showed that neurofilament- and GFAP-positive cells represented separate cell populations. Furthermore, GFAP-positive cells and fibres outlined the neurofilament-positive perikarya. It is thus likely that the GFAP-positive cells represent enteric glial cells. The pre- and postnatal development of neurofilament- and GFAP-like immunoreactivity was studied in whole mounts from rat embryos and pups. Furthermore, the presence of neurofilament and GFAP-positive fibres was observed in whole mount preparations of rat and mouse mesenterium.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The results of this study of the distribution of enkephalin-like immunoreactivity in four human &quot;senile&quot; and &quot;presenile&quot; brains by immunofluorescence microscopy (Coons' Method) showed specifically fluorescing varicosities containing fibres in the following areas: nucleus accumbens, nucleus caudatus, pallidum (mainly the external segment), septal nuclei, substantia innominata, hypothalamus, hypophysis, substantia nigra, nucleus interpeduncularis, locus coeruleus and other nuclei of the brain stem, most of the nuclei of the cranial nerves (mainly the sensitive) and spinal cord (mainly the substantia gelatinosa of the posterior horn). Fibres were observed surrounding cell bodies in the substantia nigra, in the nucleus raphe and in the anterior horn of the spinal cord (motor cells). Cylindrical (&quot;pipe-shaped&quot;) structures formed by enkephalin-like immunoreactive fibres were seen in the pallidum, between the pallidum and the nucleus accumbens, and in the substantia nigra. A complete map of enkephalin-like immunoreactivity, based on Riley's Atlas of the human brain, is included. The distribution of enkephalin-like immunoreactivity showed many similarities to that in animal species that have been studied by immunohistochemistry (rat, primate) except for a lack of detectable enkephalin immunoreactivity in the amygdala in our material. No conclusions about the possible relationship of this finding to the clinical condition of dementia can be drawn without further work.
In a number of recent studies attempts have been made to determine the subcellular origin of the released transmitter by comparison of the ratio of the radioactivity (14C/3H) of true and false transmitters between those released by stimulation and the subcellular fractions. It is shown that use of the isotopic or pseudo-molar ratios will lead to incorrect conclusions because varying degrees of isotopic dilution render the ratio meaningless. The only correct basis for comparison is the true molar ratio.
Pieces of embryonic mesencephalic tissue rich in dopamine and cholecystokinin immunoreactive neurones were grafted to the dorsal surface of the caudate-putamen of adult host rats subjected to unilateral dopamine depleting lesions. After 3 months, neuronal survival in the graft and fibre outgrowth into the host brain were studied by tyrosine hydroxylase and cholecystokinin immunohistochemistry, both in serial sections and by elution and restaining of the same sections. Both dopamine- and cholecystokinin-containing neurones as well as neurons containing both compounds survived the transplantation process. The ratio of neurones in which dopamine and cholecystokinin-like immunoreactivity occurred independently and in coexistence was similar in the grafts to that seen in the intact ventral mesencephalon. This suggests that the grafted cells maintain and express at least some of their normal chemical characteristics in the ectopic cortical location. Only those fibres which contained tyrosine hydroxylase but apparently lacked the cholecystokinin-like peptide showed extensive reinnervation of the host neostriatum. The cholecystokinin-positive fibres were found in a narrow zone immediately adjoining the graft. These results indicate that the dopaminergic reinnervation of the denervated neostriatum is preferentially carried out by the population of grafted mesencephalic dopamine neurones apparently lacking the cholecystokinin-like peptide. This suggests the presence of growth regulating mechanisms in the denervated neostriatum which selectively favour the ingrowth of fibres from the appropriate dopaminergic neuronal subset. The transplantation technique may therefore provide a powerful tool for the study of neurone-target interactions in the establishment of neuronal connections, and of the possible role of peptidergic coexistence in the development and organization of monoaminergic pathways and their innervation patterns.
Innervation of the locust oviduct has been investigated with morphological and electrophysiological methods. Using Co2+ and Ni2+ labelling technique, it was found that G7 N2B1 and B2a nerves innervate the oviduct musculature. Ultrastructurally two different terminals could be distinguished: (a) nerve endings containing mainly clear vesicles forming neuromuscular junctions with the muscle fibers; and (b) nerve terminals containing electron-dense granules which showed only &quot;synaptoid&quot; structures, but failed to form junctions with the muscle cells. The neuromuscular junctions proved to be functioning, since it was possible to record intracellularly miniature excitatory postsynaptic potentials and excitatory postsynaptic potentials from the muscle cells. The distribution of the amplitudes of the miniature excitatory postsynaptic potentials suggests a multiterminal innervation. Following electrical stimulation of N2B nerve, excitatory postsynaptic potentials similar to those appearing spontaneously could be evoked. After repetitive stimulation, facilitation or summation of excitatory postsynaptic potentials was observed. The results obtained show that locust oviduct muscle has a double, motor and modulatory innervation.
Light microscopic autoradiography of [125I]Bolton-Hunter substance P binding sites was used to study the localization and denervation-induced changes in substance P receptors in the medulla oblongata. Substance P binding sites were widely distributed. The highest density was in the rostral nucleus ambiguus, dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus, nucleus of the solitary tract, hypoglossal nucleus, spinal trigeminal nucleus and inferior olive. Moderate density was apparent in the commissural nucleus of the solitary tract, area postrema, parvocellular reticular nucleus, medial vestibular nucleus and facial nucleus. The remainder of the medullary nuclei contained few or no specific substance P binding sites. Specific binding was inhibited by the addition of unlabeled substance P (1 microM). The association of substance P binding sites with the spinal trigeminal nucleus and with several nuclei involved in autonomic function suggest a role for substance P receptor activation in nociceptive and autonomic regulation, respectively. To study the influence of afferent and efferent denervation, the substance P binding sites in the medulla of sham operated rats were compared with those of both unilateral nodose ganglionectomized and cervical vagotomized rats. Substance P binding was unilaterally reduced in the rostral nucleus ambiguus and the rostral dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus with either surgical procedure. No changes in substance P binding were detected in other medullary nuclei, including the nucleus of the solitary tract, the site of termination of afferent vagal fibers.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The axonal tract tracing technique using the transport in both the retrograde and orthograde directions of wheat-germ agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase permitted the observation of both retrogradely labelled spinal neurons and anterogradely labelled thalamic fiber terminals in the same animal after injections of the compound in the nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis, thus allowing the definition of the spino-reticulo-thalamic pathway which relays in this nucleus in the rat. Results of the present study are in favor of the existence of a pathway originating mostly in the spinal ventral horn and ending in the intralaminar nuclei of the thalamus, in particular in the nucleus center median, after a relay in the nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis. Origin and termination of this pathway seem to be well differentiated from those of the direct spino-thalamic tract. The results are discussed with reference to the possible involvement of this pathway in some aspects of pain transmission. It is suggested, in particular, that the direct spino-thalamic system which relays in the thalamic ventrobasal complex, presents the features required of a structure playing a role in the sensory-discriminative aspects of pain transmission; in contrast, the spino-reticulo thalamic system defined here could be involved in some motor and/or behavioral responses related to pain.
This study analyzes the organization of olivo-vestibular and cerebello-vestibular projections in rabbits. Iontophoretic injections of horseradish peroxidase, placed under physiological guidance into the superior, medial and lateral vestibular nuclei, produced retrogradely labeled neurons in the dorsal cap, ventrolateral outgrowth and lateral flexure of the principal olivary nucleus, the caudal half of the medial accessory olive and the caudal three-fourths of the dorsal accessory olive. This inferior olivary labeling was strictly contralateral. The same injections labeled groups of Purkinje cells in the ipsilateral cerebellar cortex, oriented perpendicular to the long axes of the folia of lobules I-V, VId-e and VIII-X of the vermis and the flocculus. The patterns of olivo-vestibular and cerebello-vestibular connections were consistent with the general hypothesis that inferior olivary axon collaterals project to both Purkinje cells and subcortical neurons inhibited by those Purkinje cells. In addition, the analysis of flocculo-nodular and dorsal cap-ventrolateral outgrowth projections to the medial and superior vestibular nuclei suggests that these connections are discrete at the level of a pool of olivary neurons which projects to functional pools of neurons in both cerebellar cortex, and in the vestibular nuclei. Thus, it is likely that inferior olivary projections define functional networks spanning cerebellar cortex and the vestibular nuclei.




Biochemical investigation of receptors for neurotransmitters and drugs in the brain has been one of the most active areas of molecular neuroscience during the past decade. This work has permitted fundamental insights into how binding of neurotransmitters to their receptors excites or inhibits neuronal firing or changes cellular metabolism. The recognition of receptor subtypes has suggested subtle ways for neurotransmitters to modulate neuronal functioning. Finally, the ability to measure receptor sites in simple test tube systems and to distinguish readily between agonists and antagonists has provided useful probes for drug discovery programs.


Electrical stimulation of the right forelimb motor (MI) sensory (SI) cortex in normal, adult rats produced repetitive left forelimb movements. Regions of increased (14C) 2-deoxyglucose (2DG) uptake were mapped auto-radiographically during these movements. MI stimulation activated the ipsilateral reticular tegmental pontine nucleus (RTP) and the middle (rostral-caudal) third of the pontine nuclei including pyramidal (P), medial (POM), ventral (POV), and lateral (POL) pontine nuclei. The ipsilateral inferior olivary complex was activated including dorsal accessory olive (DAO), principal olive (PO), and medial accessory olive (MAO). The contralateral lateral reticular (LR) nucleus and nucleus cuneatus (CU) were activated. Lateral vermal, paravermal, and hemispheric portions of the contralateral cerebellum were also activated. Parts of vermian lobules IV, V, VI, VII, and VIII, and lobulus simplex, crus I, crus II, paramedian lobule, and copula pyramidis were activated. Granule cell layers were activated much more than molecular layers. Discrete microzones of high granule cell 2DG uptake alternated with zones of low uptake in left paramedian lobule and copula pyramidis and may correlate with the fractured cerebellar somatotopy described physiologically by Welker and his associates. Portions of the left lateral and interpositus nuclei were metabolically activated. Medial portions of laminae I-VI were activated in the dorsal horn of cervical spinal cord. The 2DG uptake was either unchanged or decreased in the ventral horn. Thoracic and lumbar spinal cord were not activated. Monsynaptic MI and SI connections to P, POM, POV, POL, RTP, DAO, PO, MAO, LR, CU, and spinal cord could account for activation of those structures. However, there are no direct MI or SI connections to the deep cerebellar nuclei, the cerebellar hemisphere, or the muscles. Activation of these structures must be due to activation of polysynaptic pathways, sensory feedback from the moving forelimb, or both. The present experiments cannot distinguish these possibilities. Comparison of the regions activated during forelimb MI stimulation (FLMIS) to those activated during vibrissae MI stimulation (VMIS) suggests that the pontine nuclei, cerebellar hemisphere, and possibly the deep cerebellar nuclei are somatotopically organized. RTP, LR, CU, and spinal cord were activated during FLMIS but were not activated during VMIS. The failure to activate the ventral horn of cervical spinal cord may be due to known inhibition of alpha-motor neurons during motor cortex stimulation.
The caudal forelimb region of right &quot;motor&quot; cortex was repetitively stimulated in normal, conscious rats. Left forelimb movements were produced and (14C) 2-deoxyglucose (2DG) was injected. After sacrifice, regions of increased brain (14C) 2DG uptake were mapped autoradiographically. Uptake of 2DG increased about the stimulating electrode in motor (MI) cortex. Columnar activation of primary (SI) and second (SII) somatosensory neocortex occurred. The rostral or second forelimb (MII) region of motor cortex was activated. Many ipsilateral subcortical structures were also activated during forelimb MI stimulation (FLMIS). Rostral dorsolateral caudate-putamen (CP), central globus pallidus (GP), posterior entopeduncular nucleus (EPN), subthalamic nucleus (STN), zona incerta (ZI), and caudal, ventrolateral substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr) were activated. Thalamic nuclei that increased (14C) 2DG uptake included anterior dorsolateral reticular (R), ventral and central ventrolateral (VL), lateral ventromedial (VM), ventral ventrobasal (VB), dorsolateral posteromedial (POm), and the parafascicular-centre median (Pf-CM) complex. Activated midbrain regions included ventromedial magnocellular red nucleus (RNm), posterior deep layers of the superior colliculus (SCsgp), lateral deep mesencephalic nucleus (DMN), nucleus tegmenti pedunculopontinus (NTPP), and anterior pretectal nucleus (NCU). Monosynaptic connections from MI or SI to SII, MII, CP, STN, ZI, R, VL, VM, VB, POm, Pf-CM, RNm, SCsgp, SNr, and DMN can account for ipsilateral activation of these structures. GP and EPN must be activated polysynaptically, either from MI stimulation or sensory feedback, since there are no known monosynaptic connections from MI and SI to these structures. Most rat brain motor-sensory structures are somatotopically organized. However, the same regions of R, EPN, CM-Pf, DMN, and ZI are activated during FLMIS compared to VMIS (vibrissae MI stimulation). Since these structures are not somatopically organized, this suggests they are involved in motor-sensory processing independent of which body part is moving. VB, SII, and MII are activated during FLMIS but not during VMIS.

The DKI vertical pipette puller (Model 700 C), which is normally used to make single or multi-barrel glass pipettes out of prepulled blanks, can be modified for the construction of a variety of multi-barrel pipettes. The use of the modified pipette puller is described for the production of small diameter 4-barrel pipettes.
Small thermodes, cooled by the Peltier effect and heated by transistor dissipation, were developed for reversible nerve blocking. Temperature control is achieved by an electronic feedback circuit for two thermodes independently. This enables simple operation of the cooling system during animal experimentation. Any nerve temperature between 0 and 37 degrees C can be obtained within 90 s and maintained within 0.2 degree C. The instrument can be used both as a stand alone apparatus or under computer control. Effects of local cooling of the cervical vagus nerve of the rabbit on the A-wave of the compound action potential and on spontaneous activity are given as examples of application of the cooling system in biological experiments.
A means of recording activity from single neurons in the spinal cord of the awake cat over periods of several weeks is described. The method combines elements of the chronically implanted well technique used in recording from supraspinal structures, with a novel method for reversibly stabilizing the vertebral column in a detachable 'outrigger' device. Between recording sessions, the animal is therefore freely mobile, its vertebral column again flexible. This preparation allows exploration of 1 cm2 of the spinal cord to all depths, and single neurons can be held for periods of 30 min to 2 h. The activity of primary afferents, intraspinal interneurons and motoneurons can be identified and their responses quantified during limb movement by combining ancillary techniques with the stabilization method.

The effect of denervation and tetrodotoxin-induced muscle disuse on endplate structure was investigated in rat hind-limb muscles. The endplate was visualized by light microscopic cholinesterase staining and by scanning electron microscopy. Denervation resulted in a reduction in histochemically determined endplate dimensions proportionate to the decrease in muscle fiber circumference. Scanning electron microscopy, on the other hand, revealed a flattening or more often collapse of primary grooves with a reduction in the width of the endplate but no longitudinal shrinkage. Primary groove area per se was not measurable due to the loss of primary groove structural integrity. Thus, the apparent histochemical diminution of endplate length after denervation was artefactual, probably due to loss of cholinesterase activity and impeded access of substrate. In disuse, cholinesterase staining revealed a similar reduction in endplate girth with fiber atrophy but with a corresponding increase in endplate length. Scanning electron microscopy of disused muscle fibers confirmed these histochemical findings and the overall preservation of primary groove area. Disuse also resulted in an increase in the number of intrasynaptic primary groove branches as visualized by scanning electron microscopy. Finally, a specialized endplate &quot;raised area&quot;, prominent in soleus muscle, was greatly reduced after disuse but much less so after denervation. Thus, after denervation, primary groove structural integrity is lost and the shape of the endplate passively follows that dictated by circumferential loss of surface membrane. In disused muscle, presence of an intact axon preserves the structure and area but not the orientation of the primary grooves which are distorted by fiber atrophy. Disuse also strongly affects other endplate surface structures visualized by scanning electron microscopy.
A previous study has shown an increase in regional cerebral metabolic rate for glucose prior to the onset of central nervous system oxygen toxicity in rats exposed to 5 atmospheres absolute of oxygen. The present study was designed to measure regional cerebral glucose utilization rates at pressures used for oxygen therapy and prolonged exposures during which rats are known to be asymptomatic. The regional metabolic rate for glucose in 26 brain structures and in gray and white matter of the thoracic and lumbar spinal cord was autoradiographically measured in awake unrestrained rats using the autoradiographic [14C]2-deoxyglucose technique. Femoral artery and vein cannulae were inserted 3 days before the experiment. Rats were divided into four groups of 15: (a) air control; (b) 6 h at 1 atmosphere absolute oxygen; (c) 4 h at 2 atmospheres oxygen; and (d) 2 h at 3 atmospheres oxygen. Statistically significant increases in glucose utilization (p less than 0.05) are seen only in lateral thalamus at 3 atmospheres oxygen, in superior olivary nucleus and inferior colliculus at 2 atmospheres oxygen and in superior olivary nucleus at 1 atmosphere oxygen. The combination of our previous data at 5 atmospheres oxygen and the present results at prolonged and safe exposures to lower pressures indicated that increased glucose utilization in some neuronal structures precedes the onset of the central nervous system manifestations of oxygen toxicity.
In an attempt to evaluate the cellular organization and efferent projections of the nucleus tegmenti pedunculopontinus pars compacta, several experiments were performed in the rat. From measurements of neurons in the nucleus tegmenti pedunculopontinus pars compacta in Nissl-stained sections, the nucleus was observed to contain many large neurons which made it possible to demarcate this nucleus from surrounding pontomesencephalic reticular formation. Two other neuronal populations, medium and small neurons, were also seen in the nucleus tegmenti pedunculopontinus pars compacta. Detailed measurements showed that 90% by volume of all neurons in the nucleus tegmenti pedunculopontinus pars compacta were large and medium-sized neurons. After injections of [3]leucine into the nucleus tegmenti pedunculopontinus pars compacta, transported label was observed in dorsally and ventrally coursing ascending fibers. The dorsally coursing fibers entered the centrolateral nucleus and centre median-parafascicular complex of the thalamus. The ventrally coursing fibers produced accumulation of silver grains in the ventral tegmental area, substantia nigra pars compacta, subthalamic nucleus, zona incerta and lateral hypothalamus. Crossed fibers of the nucleus tegmenti pedunculopontinus pars compacta were observed sparsely at the levels of the thalamus and posterior commissure, and to a greater degree through the supraoptic commissure of Meynert. Much less anterograde labeling was seen in the equivalent terminal sites on the contralateral side of the brain. By electron microscopic autoradiography major terminal sites of axons of the nucleus tegmenti pedunculopontinus pars compacta were examined in rats injected with [3H]leucine in the nucleus tegmenti pedunculopontinus pars compacta and later injected with horseradish peroxidase in the striatum and pallidum. Statistical data showed preferential radiolabeling of terminals forming asymmetrical synaptic contact with dendrites in the centrolateral nucleus, centre median-parafascicular complex and subthalamic nucleus. Apparent terminations in the substantia nigra pars compacta proposed in earlier studies and shown in the present light microscopic autoradiograms were not supported by this ultrastructural analysis. Several radiolabeled terminals of the asymmetrical type contacting horseradish peroxidase labeled dendrites in the thalamus confirmed direct input from the nucleus tegmenti pedunculopontinus pars compacta to the thalamostriate projection neurons. [3H]choline injections into the thalamus and subthalamic nucleus produced retrograde perikaryal labeling of large neurons in the nucleus tegmenti pedunculopontinus pars compacta.
Neurotensin is an endogenous neuropeptide with neuronal perikarya or fibers distributed in the vicinity of the mesolimbic dopamine system. This observation, plus behavioral data showing that neurotensin injection into the nucleus accumbens blocks some behavioral effects of amphetamine, indicates that neurotensin may modulate the mesolimbic dopamine system. In this study it was shown that neurotensin given into the nucleus accumbens produces a dose-dependent blockade of locomotion and rearing initiated by dopamine injection into the nucleus accumbens. This effect is not mimicked by inactive neurotensin analogue nor some other endogenous neuropeptides. Since dopamine acts on postsynaptic dopamine receptors in the nucleus accumbens, neurotensin is acting, not on dopamine terminals, but on neurons or neuronal systems which are modulated by the mesolimbic dopamine system. This conclusion is supported by the facts that intra-accumbens injection of neurotensin does not alter accumbens levels of dopamine or its metabolites, nor does it affect the increase in dopamine metabolites produced by injection of neurotensin into the ventral tegmental area. Further, neurotensin was also found to block the dopamine-independent increase in locomotion and rearing produced by the injection of D-Ala2-Met- 5enkephalinamide into the nucleus accumbens. These data indicate that neurotensin acts on neurons in the nucleus accumbens to counteract the motor stimulant effects of dopamine or enkephalin. Therefore, in the nucleus accumbens, neurotensin is not acting to modulate the mesolimbic dopamine system, but rather appears to antagonize behavioral hyperactivity, regardless of the neurochemical initiation.
The relationship of lumbar dorsal root afferents to lateral motor column motoneurons was studied using anterograde injury filling of dorsal roots and retrograde injury filling of ventral roots with horseradish peroxidase. At the light microscopic level, horseradish peroxidase labelled dorsal root axons were observed to separate into a medial division of large diameter axons which enter the dorsal funiculus and a lateral division of small diameter axons which form a compact bundle in the dorsolateral funiculus which may be homologous to the mammalian tract of Lissauer. Within the spinal gray, primary afferents terminate in two distinct regions. The more ventral of these terminal fields, which receives collaterals of primary afferent axons in the dorsal funiculus, overlaps the dendritic arborizations of the lateral motor column motoneurons. Some axons leave the ventral terminal field to enter the dorsal lateral motor column. Here they terminate on the primary dendrites and somata of lateral motor column motoneurons. At the electron microscopic level, labelled primary afferent terminals were seen to synapse upon lateral motor column motoneuron dendrites as well as upon the somata of dorsally positioned lateral motor column motoneurons. These terminals contain small spherical vesicles and occasional dense-cored vesicles. The synaptic specializations are characterized by a small amount of postsynaptic material. The lateral motor column may be divided into dorsal and ventral portions on the basis of the primary afferent distribution and this is in accord with functional, physiological and developmental data.
Unitary responses to visual (optokinetic) and somesthetic (cutaneous and propioceptive ) stimulation were recorded from the Purkinje cell layer of the cerebellum of acute (up to 30 h) and chronic (30-90 days) bilaterially labyrinthectomized frogs. Simple spikes from Purkinje cells as well as activity from cells without complex spikes were considered in this paper. The properties of the response and the distribution (restricted to the dorsal rim and auricular lobes) of the units sensitive to optokinetic stimulation of labyrinthectomized frogs, both acute and chronic, were similar to those previously reported for normal animals. The properties of the responses to somesthetic neck and limb stimulation remained similar to those of normal animals. However, there was an increase in the number of units responsive to somesthetic stimulation within the dorsal half of the corpus cerebelli (including the dorsal rim), a region experimentally deprived of vestibular afferents, neck responsive units were 33% of the total in acutely and 61% in chronically labyrinthectomized animals (compared to 5% in normal). Limb responsive units were 49% in acute and 65% in chronic animals (compared to 12% in normal). A consequence of the increase in somesthetic input was convergence of optokinetic and somesthetic inputs at the level of single units within the dorsal rim, totally absent before the lesion. The results suggest that the somesthetic spinal input might substitute for at least some features of the vestibular input to the cerebellum in bilaterally labyrinthectomized frogs.
Unitary response to visual (optokinetic), somesthetic (neck and limb) and vestibular stimulation were recorded from the Purkinje cell layer throughout most of the dorsal surface of the frog cerebellum. Simple spike activity in Purkinje cells and activity from cells without complex spikes were considered. Optokinetic responses (types I-III) were restricted to the dorsal rim and auricular lobes. Units were sensitive to very small velocity of optokinetic cylinder rotation (0.02-0.03 degrees/s) with peak sensitivity at about 1 degree/s. On the average an approximately linear relation of response amplitude to stimulus velocity was observed from 0.02 to 1 degree/s. The response progressively diminished above 1 degree/s to become very small at 30 degrees/s. Asymmetric response and silencing of firing during part of the cycle were nonlinearities observed with sinusoidal optokinetic stimulation in the range of 0.02-1 Hz, +/- 5-10 degrees (peak velocities 0.8-30 degrees/s). Somesthetic responses were recorded throughout most of the corpus cerebelli proper but the strongest input was to rostral regions. No somatotopic arrangement was found. Rather, convergence from more than one limb and neck was relatively common. Adaptation to successive cycles of stimulation was characteristic of somesthetic responses. Vestibular responses (type I-IV) were recorded throughout most of the explored area but the strongest input was to the dorsal rim and auricular lobes. From the analysis of unitary activity, the dorsal rim and auricular lobes are shown to be functionally linked to the vestibular and optokinetic systems whereas the explored part of the corpus is linked to the somesthetic and vestibular systems.
It has recently been reported that high molecular weight microtubule-associated proteins are differently distributed in dendrites and axons of neurons [ Matus Bernhardt and Hugh-Jones (1981), Proc. natn Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 78, 3010-3014; Vallee (1982), J. Cell Biol. 92, 435-442]. We have reported earlier in a preliminary form [Miller, Walter, Theurkauf , Vallee and De Camilli (1982), Proc. natn Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 79, 5562-5566] that an antiserum specific for microtubule-associated protein 2, one of the most prominent high molecular weight microtubule-associated proteins in brain and a major brain phosphoprotein, stains specifically neuronal dendrites and perikarya. We have now extended those observations by performing a detailed analysis of the distribution of microtubule-associated protein 2 throughout the nervous system of the rat. We found that microtubule-associated protein 2 is present at high concentrations in the great majority of neurons. Under our conditions of immunostaining microtubule-associated protein 2 was not detected in nonneuronal cells. In all neurons it was compartmentalized in perikarya and dendrites. In most cases, the latter were more heavily stained than perikarya. The pattern of staining (overall intensity, relative intensity in dendrites vs perikarya, and in proximal vs distal segments of the dendritic tree), varied in different classes of neurons but was identical for all neurons with similar geometry in the same brain region. Different patterns of staining were found in dendritic trees with dissimilar branching characteristics. In all cases staining for microtubule-associated protein 2 in dendrites was consistent with a localization of microtubule-associated protein 2 on dendritic microtubules. Neuronal processes clearly identifiable as axons or axon terminals were not immunostained. Afferent processes of primary sensory cells were also unstained. Our findings indicate that microtubule-associated protein 2 is a component of the vast majority, and possibly all, neurons. It is highly concentrated in &quot;bona fide&quot; dendrites, i.e. in processes specialized for the reception of synaptic inputs on their surface and highly dependent on such inputs for their growth. The location of microtubule-associated protein 2, a major target for second messenger-regulated protein kinases, in these processes, supports the hypothesis that its phosphorylation might participate in the transduction of neurotransmitter signals in target nerve cells.
Bungarus multicinctus venom was fractionated by ion exchange chromatography and the various fractions were assayed for their ability to block synaptic transmission through the chick ciliary ganglion. alpha-Bungarotoxin purified from this venom failed to block transmission at 50 micrograms/ml. A second neurotoxin, which we designate Toxin F, blocked transmission at 1-3 micrograms/ml and also blocked ganglionic depolarizations induced by carbachol. Toxin F was clearly distinguishable from alpha-bungarotoxin on the basis of molecular weight (estimated by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis) and isoelectric point. Binding assays revealed that 125I-labeled toxin F bound to two sites in the ciliary ganglion: one site that was shared by alpha-bungarotoxin and toxin F and another site that was recognized solely by toxin F. Carbachol and d-tubocurarine displaced only that [125I]toxin F bound to the shared site and had no effect on [125I]toxin F bound to the site recognized by toxin F alone. The results suggest that toxin F blocks synaptic transmission in the chick ciliary ganglion by a postsynaptic mechanism. Further study is required to determine whether this effect of toxin F is mediated through a direct interaction with ganglionic nicotinic receptors.
Further cytochemical studies on the ultrastructural localization of 5'-nucleotidase in the rat retina have revealed activity to be associated with the complex synapses formed by the rod spherules of the receptors and the bipolar and horizontal cell processes. Activity was also seen on the axolemma of receptor fibers. In the rod inner segment strong reaction product is located intracellularly. In the rod outer segment the enzyme appears to be located only on the cytoplasmic side of the disc membrane and not intradiscally . Retinal pigment cells are rich in 5'-nucleotidase. Their microvilli accompany the tips of the receptor cells and show enzyme activity in an ecto position. A role for 5'-nucleotidase is possible in the metabolism of guanylate and adenylate nucleotides both of which are important for visual transduction processes.
In the present study we have used guanosine 3':5'-phosphate-dependent protein kinase antiserum, a specific immunohistochemical marker for cerebellar Purkinje cells, [ Lohmann , Walter, Miller, Greengard and De Camilli (1981) Proc. natn . Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 78, 653-657], to carry out a detailed analysis of the architecture and projections of Purkinje cells in the adult rat. We have obtained a novel view of aspects of Purkinje cell morphology that were already known and, in addition, we have provided some new information, in particular on the targets of Purkinje cell axons and their pattern of innervation, and on the morphology and course of Purkinje cell axons. Furthermore, we have found a few cells positive for guanosine 3':5' phosphate-dependent protein kinase which are very similar morphologically to Purkinje cells but are located outside of the cerebellar cortex. A unique feature of Purkinje cells is their peculiar monoplanar shape. Not only do their dendritic arbors lie in planes perpendicular to the major axis of the folia, but their axons, including the collaterals, also travel roughly in the same planes. Thus, Purkinje cells can be imagined as lying in longitudinal sheets radiating from the deep cerebellar nuclei. In these sheets, Purkinje cell axons originating from cells located at different rostrocaudal levels of the cortex converge towards the deep cerebellar nuclei without intersecting each other. It is as a result of this precise organization that Purkinje cell axons reach the deep cerebellar nuclei with a mediolateral and rostrocaudal topology that closely reflects the position of their parent cells in the cerebellar cortex. In the subcortical rays of white matter, Purkinje cell axons are interspersed with other axons, being excluded only from longitudinal strips which correspond to the cerebellar raphes . Upon converging towards the deep cerebellar nuclei they segregate into tracts of white matter that alternate with tracts of white matter from which they are excluded. The great majority of Purkinje cell axons terminate in the deep cerebellar nuclei. Recurrent collaterals terminate in close proximity to the Purkinje cell layer. Dense innervation by these axons is found around large interneurons ( Lugaro and Golgi cells) and around the Purkinje cell pinceaux . No direct input of recurrent collaterals to Purkinje cell somata is evident in immunostained material. A substantial number of Purkinje cell axons continue beyond the cerebellar nuclei to innervate nearby regions in the brain stem.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Strips of rabbit pulmonary artery and aorta were incubated with [3H]noradrenaline and subsequently superfused. Tritium overflow from strips superfused with physiological salt solution was stimulated either electrically (usually at a frequency of 2 Hz) or by tyramine 1 mumol/l and overflow from strips superfused with Ca2+-free solution containing K+ 54.7 mmol/l was stimulated by introduction of Ca2+ 1.6 mmol/l. In most of the experiments (stimulation by electrical impulses or CaCl2) neuronal and extraneuronal uptake and beta-adrenoceptors were blocked by cocaine, corticosterone and propranolol, respectively. The electrically evoked overflow of 3H-labelled substances from pulmonary artery and aorta was increased by adrenocorticotropic hormone. In the pulmonary artery, the adrenocorticotropic hormone--induced increase in impulse--evoked overflow (and contraction) was the more pronounced, the lower the frequency of stimulation (6, 2 and 0.66 Hz: 360 impulses). The electrically evoked overflow of 3H-labelled substances was also increased by alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone and porcine adrenocorticotropic hormone, but was not affected by adrenocorticotropic hormone. Adrenocorticotropic hormone also facilitated the Ca2+-evoked overflow of 3H-labelled substances promoted by high K+, but it did not affect the Ca2+-independent tyramine-evoked overflow. Adrenocorticotropic hormone did not alter the percentages of [3H]noradrenaline and 3H-labelled metabolites contained in electrically or tyramine-evoked overflow of 3H-labelled substances. In conclusion, adrenocorticotropic hormone and fragments of adrenocorticotropic hormone cause an increase in stimulation-evoked, Ca2+-dependent noradrenaline release from postganglionic sympathetic nerve fibres, probably by activating presynaptic receptors for adrenocorticotropic hormone.
The release of immunoreactive substance P into the vascular bed of the isolated small intestine of the guinea-pig was investigated. Raising the intraluminal pressure to 5 mbar for 5 min initiated peristalsis and stimulated the release of substance P. The substance P releasing effect of pressure stimulation was reduced by 46% when hexamethonium (240 microM) was added to the perfusion solution. The ganglion stimulant drug dimethylphenylpiperazinium (32 microM) also stimulated the release of substance P; its effect was completely prevented by hexamethonium (240 microM). Intraarterial infusion of capsaicin (22 microM), a neurotoxin known to act on sensory substance P-containing neurones, stimulated the release of substance P and caused intestinal contractions. The motor effect of capsaicin in the gut can thus be explained by release of substance P from sensory nerve endings in the gut. Systemic pretreatment of the guinea-pigs with capsaicin abolished the release of substance P due to capsaicin, whereas that evoked by elevated intraluminal pressure or dimethylphenylpiperazinium was not reduced. This means that substance P released in the course of peristalsis or by dimethylphenylpiperazinium originates from neurones intrinsic to the intestine. These findings indicate that intestinal peristalsis is associated with the release of substance P from enteric neurones. Substance P is likely to be a neurotransmitter involved in the coordination of the peristaltic reflex.
Peripheral osmo - and bradykinin-sensitive receptors which have been previously localised within the hepatic portal vein area, activate the hypothalamo-neuro-hypophysial system through a neural pathway projecting to the lower thoracic spinal cord. In this paper we attempted to identify the spinal transmitter(s) involved and to answer the question whether osmoreceptors are in fact chemosensitive nociceptors. The portal vein of anesthetised rats was superfused with 0.2 ml of 4% NaCl or 1 microM bradykinin, and hypothalamo-neurohypophysial responses were measured either electrophysiologically or by radioimmunoassay of arginine vasopressin. Responses to bradykinin, but not to hypertonic saline, were abolished in rats pretreated 2 wks previously with capsaicin s.c., and immunocytochemistry for substance P in these animals showed that substance P was strongly depleted both in the dorsal thoracic spinal cord and in the portal vein. The spinal injection of 8 microliter 0.1 mM capsaicin at T8-T9 elicited a pronounced hypothalamo-neurohypophysial response, and diminished reversibly the response to bradykinin superfusion of the portal vein. Spinal capsaicin had no effect on responses to hypertonic saline. Similarly, the spinal (T8-T9) injection of 8 micrograms substance P antagonist, the [D-Pro4, D- Trp7 ,9,10, Val8 ]substance P (4-11), reduced reversibly the responses to bradykinin by about 50% without affecting those to hypertonic saline. The spinal injection of 8 micrograms substance P, at the same site where substance P antagonist was applied, elicited within 4 s a prolonged response (several min). A slightly longer delay between stimulus and neurophysiological response was observed for spinal capsaicin and for bradykinin superfusion. Responses to hypertonic saline superfusion of the portal vein, however, occurred within 1-2 s. The results show that portal vein osmoreceptors are distinct from chemo-sensitive nociceptors, and suggest that substance P may be a spinal mediator for chemo-sensitive portal vein nociceptors. The spinal transmitter for osmosensitive afferents, and the physiological importance of the portal vein area in chemosensation remain to be established.
Neurons of the efferent vestibular system were investigated in the cat using retrograde axonal transport of horseradish peroxidase and fluorescent retrograde double labelling techniques. The number of efferent neurons was clearly higher than previously reported. A three dimensional reconstruction of the location of these neurons showed that they constitute a single group and did not give evidence of an eventual specialization based on neuron subpopulations. However, a study of cross-sectional areas of the horseradish peroxidase-labelled efferent neurons detected that the ipsilateral population contained a larger number of small neurons than the contralateral one. Double labelling by means of either 4',6-diamidino-2- phenylindol 2HCl in combination with horseradish peroxidase or Fast Blue in combination with Nuclear Yellow showed that 20% of efferent neurons project to both labyrinths. Such a high percentage raises the question of the role of these double-projecting cells and the specificity of their branching on vestibular receptors. This study expands previous work in the cat demonstrating that a much greater number of efferent neurons exists than had hitherto been assumed, among them 20% have both crossed and uncrossed projections.
The distribution of dynorphin-like immunoreactivity in the autonomic nervous system of the rat and guinea-pig was investigated using an antiserum raised against dynorphin-(1-17). Dynorphin-like immunoreactivity was observed in fiber networks in the prevertebral sympathetic ganglia, in fibers in the enteric plexa , circular muscle layer and a few in the lamina muscularis of the mucosa of the gastrointestinal tract. After colchicine treatment dynorphin-immunoreactive cell bodies were observed both in the myenteric and submucous ganglia of the gut. The paravertebral ganglia contained occasional dynorphin-positive fibers and a few immunoreactive small intensely fluorescent cells. The distribution of the dynorphin-like immunoreactivity was compared to the distribution of enkephalin-like immunoreactivity, and it was found that in some areas there were similarities in the distribution patterns, although in other areas there were clear differences, indicating a non-identity of these two systems.
This study was undertaken in order to evaluate the postulated role of glutamic acid as the neurotransmitter for the parallel fibers of the cerebellar cortex. We studied the Ca2+-dependent release and the high affinity uptake of glutamic acid in the developing cerebellum. The Ca2+-dependent release of glutamic acid from cerebellar molecular layer during development closely follows the time course of parallel fibers synaptogenesis. Little glutamic acid release was observed at 15 days, then it increased to the adult values at the 21st postnatal day. In the rat the bulk of synapses of the parallel fibers appear between the 15th and the 21st postnatal days, the time at which the nerve terminals of the climbing fibers, the other excitatory input to the Purkinje cells, are already developed. An enhanced Na+-dependent, high affinity uptake of glutamic acid was observed in the developing cerebellum relative to the adult rat. That this higher accumulation of glutamic acid is not related to a releasable pool is suggested by the fact that an enhanced glutamic acid, Ca2+-dependent release relative to the adult was not observed. These results support the view that glutamic acid is the transmitter for the cerebellar parallel fibers.
A monoclonal antibody, 2G12 , has been produced against a rat cerebral cortex glycoprotein fraction. It interacts with Thy-1 based on both the tissue distribution of its reactivity and the blocking of its binding by pretreatment with a rabbit anti-Thy-1 serum. In rat retina this antibody labels only cell bodies in the ganglion cell layer, optic nerve fibres and the inner plexiform layer. That the cell-body labelling was confined to ganglion cells was confirmed by double-labelling experiments. Ganglion cells were distinguished by retrograde transport of fluorescent markers injected into the superior colliculi. The retinas were dissociated into single cells and the cell suspension was labelled with 2G12 . There was almost complete coincidence of the two labels. A monoclonal antibody against mouse Thy-1.2 gave an essentially identical pattern of labelling. In both rats and mice Thy-1 was also found on the vitreal surface of the inner limiting membrane in a pattern reminiscent of that formed by the Mller cell endfeet, although these cells do not express Thy-1.
A method is presented wherein the attachment of linear potentiometers to the electrode carrier of a standard stereotaxic headholder permits the use of a reference voltage and an X-Y recorder to generate rapid, accurate graphic representations of various neural structures within the field of the electrode. The method is described in application to studies in rat and cat.



The sweat territories of peripheral nerves to the hind-paw of the mouse were defined by a silastic impression mold method that allowed identification of every secreting sweat gland. It was found that the tibial, sural, saphenous and peroneal nerves all contribute to the innervation of foot pad sweat glands, and there is extensive overlapping of the sweat territories of the different peripheral nerves. Most sweat glands could be activated by electrical stimulation of axons in two or three peripheral nerves or in separate fascicles of one nerve. This was interpreted to indicate that these sweat glands receive multiple innervation and that sweat glands in the overlap regions between autonomous zones of adjacent cutaneous nerves can receive axons from each nerve. Partial denervation of sweat glands by section of one source of innervation did not prevent the gland from sweating during stimulation of intact axons to the gland, or after pilocarpine treatment. Totally denervated glands did not exhibit denervation hypersensitivity; they became unresponsive to pilocarpine, acetylcholine and adrenaline. These characteristics allowed detection of the appearance and progression of reinnervation (and reactivation) of denervated sweat glands by collateral branching from sudomotor fibers. Not only do these results increase our basic understanding of the anatomical relations between peripheral nerves and the sweat glands they innervate, but they also demonstrate that the mouse sweat gland provides a useful model system for studying neuropathology of the sympathetic nervous system.
Vasa deferentia of mice were preincubated with 3H-noradrenaline and then superfused with a medium containing cocaine 10 microM and phentolamine 30 microM. The tetrodotoxin-resistant outflow of tritium evoked by high intensity electrical field stimulation (0.5 Hz, 200 mA current strength, 2 ms pulse width) was studied and, in some experiments, compared with the tetrodotoxin-sensitive outflow evoked by low intensity electrical field stimulation (0.5 Hz, 50 mA, 1 ms). In contrast to the outflow evoked by low intensity stimulation, the outflow evoked by high intensity stimulation was increased in Na+-free medium, and was only partly dependent on the external Ca2+ concentration. The Ca2+-dependent fraction consisted mainly of 3H-noradrenaline. Again, in contrast to the outflow caused by stimulation at low intensity, that caused by stimulation at high intensity was not reduced by Mg2+ 20 mM, Co2+ 5 mM or normorphine 40 or 100 microM, and was not enhanced by tetraethylammonium 5 mM or 4-aminopyridine 1 mM. It is concluded that high intensity electrical stimulation elicits a tetrodotoxin-resistant, calcium-dependent release of noradrenaline which differs in mechanism from the release elicited by action potentials.
A considerable body of evidence indicates that opiates have an important influence on midbrain dopaminergic neurons. However, little data exist concerning the effects of opiates on the activity of single dopaminergic neurons, particularly the dopaminergic neurons of the ventral tegmental area. Firing rates of mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons were recorded extracellularly, and the effects of morphine, administered systemically or applied locally onto dopaminergic cells, were tested in paralyzed, unanesthetized or chloral hydrate anesthetized rats. In general, dopaminergic neurons were excited by both systemically and locally applied morphine. When mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons were subdivided into substantia nigra zona compacta (A9) and ventral tegmental area (A10) neurons, A10 neurons were excited 2-3 times more than A9 neurons by systemic morphine. Systemic administration of the specific opiate antagonist, naloxone, in large part reversed the effects of morphine. Microiontophoretic or micropressure ejection of morphine caused an apparent depolarization-induced excitation of both A10 and A9 dopaminergic neurons. These results provide direct evidence that morphine increases impulse flow of A10 dopaminergic neurons, which are known to be involved in locomotor stimulant and positive reinforcement effects of opiates.
The regional distribution and cellular localization of iron throughout the rat brain was determined with iron histochemistry. Densitometry was used to measure the intensity of stain of 51 iron-concentrating sites. Among the areas of highest iron content are the circumventricular organs, islands of Calleja, globus pallidus, ventral pallidum, substantia nigra pars reticulata, interpeduncular nucleus, dentate nucleus, and interpositus nucleus. Iron occurs most commonly in oligodendrocytes and in the fibrous network of the neuropil, but is also found in the interstitial spaces of circumventricular organs and in the tanycytes of the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis, median eminence, and walls of the third ventricle. In diverse areas throughout the brain--among them, the islands of Calleja, dentate gyrus of the hippocampal formation, lateral septal nucleus, and central amygdala--iron is found in association with the perikarya and neuronal processes of nerve cells. The overlapping distribution patterns of iron and gamma-aminobutyric acid, enkephalin, and luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone suggest that the distribution of iron is related to its association with the metabolism of one or more neurotransmitters or neuroactive compounds.
Serotonin-containing neurons were localized in the central nervous system of Aplysia californica by the combination of an immunohistochemical procedure for wholemounts of Aplysia ganglia and, in parallel experiments, by the direct measurement of serotonin in individual neurons with a radioenzymatic assay. Paraformaldehyde fixed, desheathed ganglia were incubated in a commercially available antiserum against a conjugate of serotonin and bovine serum albumin. The bound antibody was visualized by an indirect antibody procedure using the horseradish peroxidase catalyzed reduction of the chromogen, diaminobenzidine, and a cobalt-nickel intensification procedure. The specificity of the immunoreaction for serotonin-containing cells was demonstrated by (1) the consistent staining of previously identified serotonin-containing neurons; (2) the absence of staining in identifiable neurons which do not contain measurable serotonin; and (3) the absence of staining in ganglia treated with antiserum which had been absorbed by serotonin and the serotonin conjugate. Previously unidentified serotonin-containing neurons were localized in the cerebral and pedal ganglia by the combination of immunocytochemistry and direct assay for serotonin. Immunoreactive fibers were found surrounding many neuronal somata. In addition, serotonin assays of known cholinergic neurons that were covered by immunoreactive fibers indicated that measurable amounts of serotonin were associated with such neurons, but the concentration of serotonin was an order of magnitude lower than in neurons known to stain with the anti-serotonin serum. These studies have localized more than a hundred neurons that appear to contain serotonin in concentrations (greater than 0.5 mM) in the Aplysia central nervous system. In addition, it appears that the long-held belief that the somata of invertebrate neurons are relatively free of impinging nerve fibers may no longer be tenable. The immunoreactive fibers surrounding many cell bodies may be the source of measurable serotonin associated with neurons known to utilize or to contain transmitter substances other than serotonin. Immunocytochemical techniques applied to wholemounts of molluscan preparations facilitate identification of stained neurons for parallel physiological and chemical experiments.
Compensatory torsional and vertical eye movements were recorded in the frog during sinusoidal linear acceleration along the longitudinal and transverse body axes, respectively. Stimulus frequencies ranged between 0.1 and 1.0 Hz and peak accelerations from 0.01 g to 0.1 g corresponding to body tilts ranging from 0.57 to 5.7 degrees. In addition, static compensatory eye movements were studied during fore-and-aft and lateral body tilt over ranges of +/- 10 degrees. The evoked eye movements were generally quite small (+/- 0.5 degree). Dynamic gain (rotation of the eye/apparent rotation of gravity direction) was 0.10-0.20 at 0.1 Hz and decreased to about 0.05 at 1.0 Hz. The gain of vertical eye movements was somewhat higher than that of torsional eye movements. Phase lag relative to peak accelerations increased from about 10 degrees to about 45 degrees over the same frequency range. Static compensatory eye movements evoked by nose-up and ipsilateral side-up tilt were larger in amplitude than those evoked by nose-down and ipsilateral side-down tilt. Static gain (rotation of the eye/tilt of the whole body) was about 0.10 for vertical and about 0.06 for torsional eye movements. No consistent eye movements could be evoked by vertical sinusoidal accelerations (maximal modulation amplitudes +/- 0.025 g). The results indicate that, as in other vertebrates, maculo-ocular reflexes contribute to gaze stabilization in the frog mainly during low frequency and static head and body tilts.
Using a technique by which binding sites for two antibodies can be visualized in single tissue sections, we have studied the distribution of neurones containing DOPA decarboxylase-like and dopamine beta-hydroxylase-like immunoreactivity in ganglia of dog sympathetic chain. Three types of neurones could be distinguished: those that contained both enzymes, and were presumably noradrenergic; those that contained neither enzyme, and were presumably not catecholaminergic; and a group that contained DOPA decarboxylase but lacked dopamine beta-hydroxylase. The numbers of cells of each type were counted in serially-sectioned ganglia from regions of the sympathetic chain thought to contain dopaminergic neurones (T12-L1 and L7-S2). The percentages of total cell numbers contributed by the DOPA decarboxylase-positive, dopamine beta-hydroxylase-negative cells in these regions were similar to the estimates of dopaminergic neurone numbers that can be made from previously obtained biochemical data. Our results are consistent with the presence of dopaminergic neurons in regions of the paravertebral chain supplying the kidney and the distal hindlimb.
Neurons containing the enzyme aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase were immunocytochemically localized in the brain stem of the rat. The enzyme occurred as expected in previously well characterized monoaminergic cell groups, and in addition in some nuclei with unknown neurotransmitters. Major aggregates of neurons that were immunoreactive for aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase but contained neither tyrosine hydroxylase nor serotonin, were found in the pretectal nuclei, the lateral parabrachial nucleus, and the dorsolateral subdivision of the nucleus tractus solitarius. Aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase was also present in serotonin neurons and the majority of catecholamine cell groups. Dopamine, noradrenaline, and adrenaline cells exhibited characteristic staining intensities to anti-aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase reflective of relative enzyme levels in the different groups. Some cells in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus that were previously classified as dopaminergic lacked immunoreactivity to aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase.
The origins of projections within the medial forebrain bundle from the upper brainstem were examined with the horseradish peroxidase technique. Labeled cells were found in approximately 15 upper brainstem nuclei following injections of a conjugate of horseradish peroxidase and wheat germ agglutinin at various levels of the medial forebrain bundle. Labeled nuclei included (from caudal to rostral): dorsal and ventral parabrachial nuclei; Kolliker-Fuse nucleus; dorsolateral tegmental nucleus; A7 (lateral pontine tegmentum medial to lateral lemniscus); median and dorsal raphe nuclei; distinct group of cells oriented mediolaterally in the dorsal pontine tegmentum below the central gray; B9 (ventral midbrain tegmentum dorsal to medial lemniscus); retrorubral nucleus; nucleus of Darkschewitsch, interfascicular nucleus; rostral and caudal linear nuclei; ventral tegmental area; medial part of substantia nigra, pars compacta; and the supramammillary nucleus. With the exception of the ventral parabrachial nucleus, Kolliker-Fuse, A7, B9 and substantia nigra, pars compacta, each of the nuclei mentioned above sent strong projections along the medial forebrain bundle to the rostral forebrain. Sparse labeling was observed throughout the pontine and midbrain reticular formation. With the exception of the dorsal raphe nucleus, projections to the most anterior regions of the medial forebrain bundle (level of the anterior commissure) essentially only arose from presumed dopamine-containing nuclei-retrorubral nucleus (A8 area), interfascicular nucleus, rostral and caudal linear nuclei, substantia nigra pars compacta, and ventral tegmental area. Evidence was reviewed indicating that major forebrain sites of termination for these dopaminergic nuclei are structures that have been collectively referred to as the 'ventral striatum'. It is concluded from the present findings that several pontine and mesencephalic cell groups are in a position to exert a strong, direct effect on structures in the anterior forebrain and that the medial forebrain bundle is the main communication route between the upper brainstem and the forebrain.
The origins of projections within the medial forebrain bundle from the lower brainstem were examined with the horseradish peroxidase technique. Labeled cells were found in at least 15 lower brainstem nuclei following injections of a conjugate or horseradish peroxidase and wheat germ agglutinin at various levels of the medial forebrain bundle. Dense labeling was observed in the following cell groups (from caudal to rostral): A1 (above the lateral reticular nucleus); A2 (mainly within the nucleus of the solitary tract); a distinct group of cell trailing ventrolaterally from the medial longitudinal fasciculus at the level of the rostral pole of the inferior olive; raphe magnus; nucleus incertus; dorsolateral tegmental nucleus (of Castaldi); locus coeruleus; nucleus subcoeruleus; caudal part of the dorsal (lateral) parabrachial nucleus; and raphe pontis. Distinct but light labeling was seen in raphe pallidus and obscurus, nucleus prepositus hypoglossi, nucleus gigantocellularis pars ventralis, and the ventral (medial) parabrachial nucleus. Sparse labeling was observed throughout the medullary and caudal pontine reticular formation. Several lower brainstem nuclei were found to send strong projections along the medial forebrain bundle to very anterior levels of the forebrain. They were: A1, A2, raphe magnus (rostral part), nucleus incertus, dorsolateral tegmental nucleus, raphe pontis and locus coeruleus. With the exception of the locus coeruleus, attention has only recently been directed to the ascending projections of most of the nuclei mentioned above. Evidence was reviewed indicating that fibers from lower brainstem nuclei with ascending medial forebrain bundle projections distribute to widespread regions of the forebrain. It is concluded from the present findings that several medullary cell groups are capable of exerting a direct effect on the forebrain and that the medial forebrain bundle is the major ascending link between the lower brainstem and the forebrain.
The pontine projection of the flocculus and adjacent ventral paraflocculus was investigated with antegrade and retrograde axonal tracer techniques. Injections of horseradish peroxidase into the floccular complex revealed subsets of labeled neurons in the nucleus reticularis tegmenti pontis, the nucleus raphe pontis and the medial lemniscus. Following injections of tritiated leucine in these subsets, the topographical distribution of labeled mossy fibers in the floccular complex was studied. Cells clustered in the central part of the nucleus reticularis tegmenti pontis project to the rostral flocculus and the rostral part of the caudal flocculus. The terminal field of cells in the nucleus raphe pontis and of cells associated with the lateral aspect of the medial lemniscus covered the same area. The number of mossy fiber terminals arising from these cells is small and concentrated in a medial position. The medial extension of the ventral paraflocculus and its most caudal sublobule do receive a very dense mossy fiber projection from cells associated with the medial edge of the medial lemniscus next to the rostral nucleus reticularis tegmenti pontis and beyond. Concomitantly, a collateral projection terminates in a restricted part of the uvula. Labeled mossy fiber terminals were never observed in the nodulus. The nucleus reticularis tegmenti pontis does not project to any part of the lower brain stem. The connections described in this paper are discussed in relation to the possible role of the nucleus reticularis tegmenti pontis as a relay nucleus in brain stem pathways transmitting visual information. It is concluded that in the cat this nucleus is an exclusively pre-cerebellar relay, not involved as a final link in the non-cerebellar pathway transmitting visual information to the vestibular nuclei.
The nucleus accumbens is located ventromedially in the mammalian neostriatum. Nissl- and myelin-stained material from the rat shows that the internal organization of the accumbens features clusters of cells occupying myelin-poor regions. These cell clusters served as basic morphological units against which several other histological features were examined. Markers for opiate receptors, acetylcholinesterase and subcortical afferent termination patterns reveal a mosaic heterogeneity in register with the cell clusters. Specifically, [3H]naloxone binds densely, acetylcholinesterase stains weakly and [3H]amino acids, anterogradely transported from the thalamic paraventricular, paratenial and central medial nuclei and from the ventral tegmental area, label termination-poor zones--all in patterns which correspond to the cell clusters. Details of this fit were provided by Golgi analysis of the spread of cell cluster dendrites. The restriction of dendrites to cell cluster territory, together with the sharply defined edges of opiate receptor and thalamic tract termination patterns, suggests that some connections are excluded from the clusters, and others terminate almost exclusively within their domain. Dopamine fluorescence is weak in the cell cluster areas, supporting the idea that projections from dopaminergic cells in the ventral tegmental area avoid cell clusters. Though certain extrinsic afferent projections are excluded from the cell clusters, it is argued that inputs from nearby striatal enkephalinergic neurons are preferentially received. Taken together, these findings suggest that the cell clusters are way-stations devoted to intrinsic information processing. It is speculated that these concepts can be extended to chemically similar arrangements in the caudate-putamen, which lacks a cytoarchitectural unit as distinct as the cell cluster.
Intracellular microelectrodes have been used to examine the effects, on excitatory inputs to myenteric nerve cells, of lesions of intrinsic pathways in the myenteric plexus of the guinea-pig small intestine. The lesions consisted of circumferential cuts (myotomies) which severed the external musculature to the depth of the submucosa and thus interrupted pathways in the myenteric plexus. Sufficient time was allowed between creating the lesions and recording from the neurons for the endings of severed neurites to degenerate and this was confirmed histochemically by examining the distribution of varicose fibres with 5-hydroxytryptamine immunoreactivity in myenteric ganglia from which recordings were made. Two types of excitatory input, eliciting fast and slow excitatory post-synaptic potentials, respectively, were demonstrable in response to focal stimulation of nerves in the ganglia from which recordings were made. There were no differences in the proportions of neurons in which fast or slow excitatory synaptic potentials were evoked in unoperated preparations (controls), in islands 1.5-4 mm wide between myotomies, or within 1 mm on the oral or anal sides of myotomies. Possible differences in the amplitudes, durations at half amplitude, and threshold numbers of stimuli for initiation of slow excitatory synaptic potentials were analyzed. The only significant differences were found when data from control and oral areas were pooled and compared with combined data from island and anal areas (this assessed differences that could arise from severing nerve fibres running from oral to anal).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Peripheral deafferentation of the rodent olfactory bulb results in loss of dopamine content, tyrosine hydroxylase activity and immunocytochemical staining for tyrosine hydroxylase in juxtaglomerular dopamine neurons. Reinnervation of the bulb by afferent neurons results in the return of all parameters to control levels suggesting that the dopamine neurons did not degenerate but that the expression of tyrosine hydroxylase enzyme was transneuronally regulated in a static population of juxtaglomerular cells. To evaluate this possibility, we determined the activity and immunocytochemical localization of the second enzyme in the dopamine biosynthetic pathway, DOPA decarboxylase. At a time when tyrosine hydroxylase activity was reduced to 25% of control values, DOPA decarboxylase activity in the lesioned bulb was maintained at about 65% of that in the unlesioned bulb. Immunocytochemical staining with antibodies to both enzymes, performed sequentially in the same sections, demonstrated that in the unlesioned bulb tyrosine hydroxylase and DOPA decarboxylase are co-localized in the same population of juxtaglomerular neurons. Similar results were obtained in adjacent sections each stained with one of the two antibodies. In contrast, in the deafferented bulb, about three times as many neurons were stained with DOPA decarboxylase as with tyrosine hydroxylase antibodies. The DOPA decarboxylase activity measurements and immunocytochemistry argue for the continued presence, in the lesioned olfactory bulb, of a population of tyrosine hydroxylase deficient dopamine neurons. The data suggest that olfactory receptor cell innervation transneuronally regulates the expression of tyrosine hydroxylase by mechanisms separate from those controlling the levels of DOPA decarboxylase.

The authors discuss a new method for measuring the overall cerebral blood flow in man from analysis of the hydrogen clearance curves recorded in the internal jugular vein with a sounding platinum electrode. The hydrogen clearance curves are polyexponential in character and for calculating the blood flow it is therefore necessary to use the stochastic method. The use of the &quot;initial inclination&quot; method is also admissible in proximate curve analysis. The values of the overall cerebral blood flow in patients with craniocerebral injury measured by the method suggested are in agreement with the data in the literature.


The advantages of utilizing a microprocessor design kit as a central element in custom laboratory instrumentation are demonstrated in the design of a real-time, multiple point, tissue displacement monitor. The tissue sample to be monitored is submerged in a saline bath, through which perpendicular electric fields are alternately generated. Analog displacement data are generated by differentially amplifying the voltage between each of 4 sense electrodes attached to the tissue surface, and a reference electrode, positioned on the tissue surface central to the sense electrodes. The microprocessor unit is used to control field generation, to multiplex the sensing electrode signals through the analog signal processing electronics, and after analog-to-digital conversion, to scale and interface the digital displacement data to a host processor.
A microcomputer interface card is described, using a standard peripheral interface adapter chip, for use in multi-channel extracellular single unit recording. The design is for the Apple II. The card sends an interrupt signal to the processor whenever a pulse arrives to it, and enables the computer to read out which of 8 possible channels brought the pulse and when.
By using the fluorescent dye quinacrine as a marker for the Merkel cells in rat touch domes we have shown that denervation results in a progressive reduction in the number of these cells to a level that remains relatively constant at about 40% of that present at the time of denervation. The time-course of quinacrine fluorescent cell changes after denervation could be described by assuming that (i) there are two populations of quinacrine fluorescent cells, one labile and the other stable, and (ii) the labile population is the one most sensitive to denervation and disappears exponentially with a half-time of ca 10 days. It appeared that this time-course of decay of the labile quinacrine fluorescent cells was the same whether the denervation was performed during the period of postnatal development studied (at 7 and 14 days), when normally Merkel cells are rapidly added to the dome, or later (at 35 and 60 days) when the adult population is virtually established. Correlative electron microscopic studies confirmed that quinacrine fluorescent cell counts reflect fairly accurately the Merkel cell population in denervated domes. These quantitative findings based on the use of quinacrine to visualize the entire Merkel cell population of touch domes show that the normal development and maintenance of these cells are trophically dependent on sensory nerves, although a subpopulation may persist even in long-term denervated domes. In addition, the similarity of the first order rate constant for the decay of quinacrine fluorescent cells after denervation and for the normal generation of quinacrine fluorescent cells suggests that the labile Merkel cell population is one that turns over continuously in the normally innervated touch dome.
The ability of the fluorescent dye quinacrine to label epidermal Merkel cells was used to study the development of touch domes (Haarscheiben) in rat skin. In embryonic and early postnatal pups, sites of touch dome primordia were reliably located within strips of separated trunk epidermis by the occurrence of discrete clusters of fluorescent cells scattered across the basal cell layer. As in excised adult domes, most of these fluorescent (Merkel) cells lay caudal to the emerging tylotrich hair follicle and the cell cluster formed an annular or crescentric disc. Though all the touch domes that comprise the adult population appear to contain labelled Merkel cells by postnatal day 4, the number of these cells per dome continues to increase some 3-4 fold after birth to reach the average adult number (ca 90 cells) on the dorsal trunk around the fifth week. At about this time the adult size (ca 250 micron) of the dorsal Haarscheiben is also reached, as estimated by the length of the long axis of the fluorescent disc. The rostro-caudal orientation of this long axis varied from dome to dome, usually in the range 0-45 degrees clockwise or counterclockwise, and a functional correlate of this is suggested. The density of labelled dome primordia is higher on the dorsal than on the ventral trunk from as early as embryonic day E20-21 and remains higher although the density of domes decreases steadily across the skin during postnatal growth of the animal. This study utilizes a novel fluorescent labelling technique that is applicable to microscopic studies on the development of Merkel cells within their epithelial locations, in this instance the rat touch domes. Although the full population of domes is established early in development, the Merkel cells within a dome continue to increase in number for several weeks after physiological function is known to appear in this structure.
The electrical activity of 132 neurons located in the inhibitory area of the medullary reticular formation, namely, in the medial aspects of the nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis, magnocellularis and ventralis has been recorded in precollicular decerebrate cats during sinusoidal displacement of the neck. This was achieved by rotation of the body about the longitudinal axis of the animal, while maintaining the head stationary. In particular, 85 neurons were activated antidromically by stimulation of the spinal cord at T12 and L1, the remaining 47 units were not activated antidromically. Among these reticular neurons tested, 66 out of 85 (i.e. 77.6%) of the neurons that were, and 31 out of 47 (i.e. 66.0%) of the neurons that were not antidromically activated responded to slow neck rotation at the frequency of 0.026 Hz and at the peak amplitude of displacement of 10 degrees. The units influenced by neck rotation showed a periodic modulation of the firing rate in response to sinusoidal stimulation of neck receptors. In particular, 70 of 97 units (i.e. 72.2%) were excited during side-down neck rotation and depressed during side-up rotation, while 19 of 97 units (i.e. 19.6%) showed the opposite pattern. In both instances, the peak of the responses occurred with an average phase lead of +41 degrees for the extreme side-up or side-down neck displacement. The remaining 8 units (i.e. 8.2%) showed a prominent phase shift of the peak of their response relative to neck position. The proportion of units excited during side-down neck rotation were almost equally distributed throughout the whole rostro-caudal extent of the reticular structures explored. Responses to neck rotation were detectable at 0.25 degrees of peak displacement. The gain (imp./s/deg.) and the sensitivity (%/deg., i.e. percentage change of the mean firing rate per degree of displacement) in responses of reticulospinal neurons decreased by increasing the peak amplitude of neck rotation from 1 to 10 degrees at a frequency of 0.026 Hz. Therefore, the system did not behave linearly with respect to amplitude of stimulation. By increasing the frequency of stimulation from 0.008 to 0.32 Hz at the fixed amplitude of 10 degrees, the gain, sensitivity and phase lead of responses increased for frequencies of neck rotation above 0.051 Hz. Reticulospinal neurons may thus monitor changes in neck position as well as in velocity of neck rotation. Responses of reticulospinal neurons to neck rotation are discussed in relation to the responses to the same stimulus recently described of vestibulospinal neurons originating from the lateral vestibular nucleus.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Quantitative receptor autoradiography demonstrated that muscarinic receptors were down-regulated in Wistar rats after repeated exposure to diisopropyl phosphorofluoridate. The density of receptors was decreased to 60-85% of the controls. Reductions in muscarinic receptor binding were observed in cortex, caudate-putamen, lateral septum, hippocampal formation, superior colliculus, and pons. The density of muscarinic receptors was unchanged in thalamic and hypothalamic nuclei, periaqueductal grey, cerebellum, inferior colliculus and reticular formation of the brain stem. The down-regulation of muscarinic receptors in forebrain structures, such as cortex, caudate-putamen and hippocampus, may be important in the adaptation to the behavioral effects of organophosphate poisons.
Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) neurons within the central nucleus of the rat amygdala were examined using light and electron microscopic immunocytochemical techniques. Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-immunoreactive neurons were located in the ventral part and less frequently in the central part of the central nucleus. Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide positive terminals were distributed throughout the medial part of a cytoarchitectonically distinct central zone of the central nucleus. Three types of terminals formed synaptic contacts on VIP-immunoreactive neurons: type A containing round vesicles, type B containing many pleomorphic vesicles and type C containing fewer pleomorphic vesicles. All VIP-immunoreactive boutons observed were of type A variety, and made asymmetrical and symmetrical synaptic contacts on both VIP-immunoreactive and nonreactive neurons within the central nucleus.
The electrical activity of hippocampal pyramidal cells was studied in slice cultures during blockade of the regenerative Na currents. In the presence of tetrodotoxin, these neurones had a mean resting potential of -68 mV, a membrane input resistance of 87 M omega and displayed marked non-linearities in their current voltage relationship. In response to depolarizing stimuli, pyramidal cells generated action potentials of small amplitude, slow rise and long duration. These tetrodotoxin-resistant spikes were abolished by calcium conductance blockers such as cobalt and cadmium ions. Acetylcholine applied to the bath or by iontophoresis depolarized pyramidal cells, elicited spontaneous tetrodotoxin-resistant spikes and facilitated spiking evoked by depolarizing rectangular current pulses or a current ramp. The effects of acetylcholine were not only slow in onset, but also prolonged; they were completely reversible and sensitive to atropine and calcium-antagonists such as cadmium and cobalt ions which, respectively, reduced and abolished these effects. After hyperpolarizations following injection of depolarizing current pulses were suppressed by acetylcholine and often transformed into depolarizing afterpotentials. Acetylcholine had no effect on voltage-independent conductances as determined by application of hyperpolarizing current pulses. These results could be explained by inhibition of the voltage-dependent K+-current, i.e. the M current (blockade of the calcium current could remove any depolarizing influence resulting from M current inhibition) or by a direct activation of a voltage-dependent calcium current by muscarinic agonists.
In many mammals, particularly species with frontalised eyes, a small region o retina is strongly specialised for high resolution, binocular vision. The region is typically located near the centre of the retina, a few millimetres temporal to the optic disc, and is termed the &quot;area centralis&quot; or, in some primates in which the specialisation is particularly well developed, the &quot;fovea centralis&quot;. Where the specialisation is well developed, the area or fovea centralis dominates the organisation of the adult visual system. Studies of the histogenesis of the retina of the cat indicate that the process of retinal maturation is centred on the area centralis, which thus seems to be an organising focus in the ontogeny as well as the adult function of the visual system.
Serotonin-immunocytochemistry has been applied to whole mounts of the central nervous system and of several peripheral tissues from stage 12 juvenile Aplysia californica. The small size of animals at this stage permits visualization of the three-dimensional distribution of structures containing serotonin-immunoreactivity in unsectioned tissues. Many neuronal cell bodies are stained in addition to the giant cerebral neuron of the cerebral ganglion and cells in the RB cluster of the abdominal ganglia which previously had been characterized biochemically and pharmacologically as being serotoninergic. Neuronal cell bodies, both in central ganglia and in the wall of the gut, are encircled by plexuses of serotoninergic varicosities. The neuropil of ganglia and the eye also contain fine, immunoreactive axons bearing varicosities. Intraganglionic connectives and nerves contain many stout fluorescent axons. Serotoninergic varicosities are also observed in the connective tissue sheath surrounding central ganglia and nerves, as well as in heart and body muscle, blood vessels and gut.
The postnatal development of leucine5-enkephalin-like immunoreactivity within the hippocampal formation of the rat has been analyzed using immunocytochemical techniques. From the day of birth to postnatal day three, no intrinsic hippocampal elements exhibit immunoreactivity although labeled axons are found within the fimbria, within the alveus, and in the vicinity of the angular bundle. On postnatal day 4, a few immunoreactive hippocampal neurons can be seen in stratum radiatum of the region CA3 and by postnatal day 8, within the hilus, strata pyramidale and oriens of regio superior, and the subiculum. There is a dramatic increase in the incidence of immunoreactive perikarya between postnatal days 8 and 10 in all fields as well as the appearance of labeled neurons in CA1 stratum pyramidale and stratum granulosum of the dentate gyrus. Two days after the first appearance of immunoreactive perikarya, intensely immunoreactive neurons, labeled much more extensively than is ever seen in the adult, are encountered in each subfield of the hippocampus. The spatio-temporal order in both the emergence of perikaryal immunoreactivity and the transient appearance of intensely immunoreactive neurons follows that of neurogenesis, with immunoreactivity developing 12-14 days after the peak period of last cell division for a given hippocampal region. The incidence of immunoreactive perikarya in the dentate gyrus was quantified in rat pups ranging from postnatal days 8 to 19. The appearance of labeled neurons followed the spatio-temporal gradients that have been described for neurogenesis in this region as well. Immunoreactive perikarya emerged in the suprapyramidal stratum granulosum prior to their emergence in the infrapyramidal zone and in the temporal pole of the dentate earlier than in the mid-dorsoventral dentate. The lateral perforant path and mossy fiber axons, seen to exhibit enkephalin-like immunoreactivity in the adult hippocampal formation, differ in their relative maturity at the age immunoreactivity first appears. Immunoreactivity appears as early as postnatal day 4 in the lateral perforant path, an age at which these axons are just growing into their target field while it is not found within the mossy fibers until after postnatal day 10, an age at which mossy fiber bouton elaboration is well advanced and physiologically competent mossy fiber synapses with the regio inferior pyramidal cells have been established. The latter observation indicates that enkephalin is not necessary for synaptic transmission at the mossy fiber synapse.
Immunohistochemical methods were used to characterize the distribution of staining for leucine enkephalin-like and methionine enkephalin-like immunoreactivities in the telencephalon of Caiman crocodilus. Very similar distributions of both leucine enkephalin-like and methionine enkephalin-like immunoreactivity were observed. The greatest accumulations of enkephalin-like immunoreactive material were observed within the ventrolateral area of the telencephalon, a region considered comparable to the mammalian corpus striatum and avian paleostriatal complex (i.e. basal ganglia) on the basis of embryological, anatomical and histochemical criteria. Within the ventrolateral area, many small immunoreactive neuron cell bodies were observed, particularly within the rostromedial small-celled component of the ventrolateral telencephalic area. A rich plexus of fibers displaying enkephalin-like immunoreactivity invests the entire ventrolateral area including the large-celled subdivision. A system of thick, coarse, radially-directed immunoreactive fibers running between medial and dorsal portions of the ventrolateral area and more ventral portions was observed in this study. Other structures in the caiman telencephalon, containing large numbers of neural elements displaying enkephalin-like immunoreactivity, were the ventral paleostriatum (a region considered comparable to the ventral pallidum of mammals), the lateral septal nucleus and the nucleus accumbens. The corticoid areas contained far fewer elements displaying enkephalin-like immunoreactivity, although immunoreactive fibers and cell bodies were observed within the medial, dorsal and lateral corticoid areas, particularly at caudal levels. The dorsal ventricular ridge contains the lowest number of immunoreactive cells and fibers of any structure within the caiman telencephalon although occasional neurons displaying enkephalin-like immunoreactivity were encountered in the dorsal ventricular ridge. The results are compared to the distribution of enkephalin within the cerebral hemispheres of mammals, birds and other reptiles.
Delta sleep-inducing peptide has been found in the peripheral circulation of animals entering slow-wave, or delta, sleep. An antiserum to this peptide was used to localize immunoreactive-like delta sleep-inducing peptide in the rat brain. The peptide was shown to have a rather widespread distribution. In the forebrain, the majority of these neurons were found to extend in a continuous rostral-caudal band in the ventral one-third of the brain from the primary olfactory cortex to the lateral hypothalamus. Neurons were also present in the basal ganglia, amygdala, septum, and thalamus. In the brainstem, the neurons were widespread and associated with the reticular formation, raphe nuclei, nuclei of the trigeminal complex, several auditory nuclei--nuclei of the lateral lemniscus, cochlear nuclei, and inferior colliculus--, cerebellum, locus ceruleus, periventricular gray, and vagal and hypoglossal nuclei. Immunoreactive fibers were, in general, difficult to demonstrate; they were seen mainly in the vicinity of the third ventricle and near blood vessels. The function of delta sleep-inducing peptide is unknown and its role in sleep is still under investigation. The distribution of delta sleep-inducing peptide in the present study suggests that the peptide is a component of several systems--arousal, locomotion, auditory, visual and sensory--both somatic and vestibular. The widespread distribution of the peptide, the lack of demonstrable immunoreactive fiber tracts, and the presence of these neurons in areas known to contain aminergic and peptidergic neurons, raises the possibility that neurons containing delta sleep-inducing peptide may exert their effect by projecting directly into blood vessels and/or interacting with neurons in their immediate vicinity.
Efferent connections from a portion of the cerebellar fastigial nucleus were investigated using autoradiography. Bipolar stimulating electrodes were placed in the fastigial nucleus of anesthetized beagles and the area that produced increases in blood pressure and heart rate was localized. A mixture of [3H]leucine and [3H]proline (4:1) was injected into the area and autoradiograms of transported material were prepared. Injections filled the rostral and various parts of the caudal fastigial nucleus. Labeled axons reached the brain stem via two routes, the ipsilateral juxtarestiform body and the contralateral uncinate fasciculus. Ventral portions of the lateral vestibular nucleus were labeled bilaterally, projections to the inferior vestibular and medial vestibular nuclei are contralateral. Nucleus tractus solitarius was heavily labeled on the side opposite the injection. The contralateral medial reticular formation contained many labeled terminals and axons. Label was found in the nucleus reticularis ventralis, lateral reticular nucleus, nucleus gigantocellularis, nucleus pontis caudalis and the paramedian reticular nucleus. No terminal labeling was found in nucleus parvocellularis or nucleus ambiguous. Stimulation of the rostral fastigial nucleus produces increases in blood pressure and heart rate by generalized sympathoexcitation. Many cell groups which facilitate the activity of preganglionic sympathetic neurons do not receive direct fastigial input. It is suggested that that sympathoexcitation resulting from stimulation of the fastigial nucleus occurs through multisynaptic connections in the brain stem.
Electrophoretic injections of horseradish peroxidase were made in different parts of the rat inferior olivary complex using a ventral approach. Data from these injections provide anatomical evidence for the existence of a projection to the inferior olive which takes origin from reticular nuclei in the brainstem. The majority of reticulo-olivary neurons are located in the nucleus raphe obscurus and nucleus raphe pallidus. Other reticular nuclei which contribute to this projection include the nucleus reticularis ventralis and nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis. Analysis of injections confined to specific parts of the olivary complex reveals a topographical pattern in the reticulo-olivary projection. Caudal parts of the complex receive input primarily from the nucleus reticularis ventralis. As more rostral and medial parts of the inferior olive are included in the injection, there is concomitant shifting of labeled neurons to the nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis and the raphe nuclei. The reticulo-olivary neurons may serve several non-mutually exclusive roles in olivary circuitry. They may be the source of serotonin and/or substance P to the nucleus. Physiologically, they may provide the inhibitory input observed in the nucleus. Finally, some of these neurons may be the brainstem relay of the lateral funiculus and dorsolateral funiculus spino-olivo-cerebellar pathway proposed by Larson and his co-workers (J. Physiol., Lond. 203, 611-640, 641-649).
We have studied the effects of apomorphine on central serotoninergic system by using fluorescence histochemistry and high performance liquid chromatography coupled with electrochemical detection. Apomorphine has been shown selectively to elevate intracellular serotonin fluorescence in dorsal raphe neurons and serotonin and/or 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid concentrations in the major terminal area of the dorsal raphe, the striatum. Apomorphine has no effect on serotonin neurons in the median raphe or its corresponding projection site, the hippocampus. In the present study, intraventricular 6-hydroxydopamine, when administered together with desimipramine and pargyline, antagonized the apomorphine-induced elevations of serotonin fluorescence in the dorsal raphe and serotonin and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid levels in the striatum. This antagonism was found when 6-hydroxydopamine was given either 3 or 10 days before 3 mg/kg apomorphine. Apomorphine also elevated extraperikaryal serotonin fluorescence and catecholamine fluorescence in the dorsal raphe selectively and these effects were also blocked by 6-hydroxydopamine. Additionally, 6-hydroxydopamine accelerated striatal serotonin turnover when it was given 10 days prior to death. This phenomenon probably reflects some compensatory change of mesostriatal serotonin neurons in response to the prolonged depletion of brain dopamine. The above results suggest that the observed effects of apomorphine on the serotoninergic system are mediated indirectly through dopaminergic neurons and that postsynaptic dopamine receptors are probably not responsible for apomorphine's effects.
The substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area of the rat were examined by retrograde transport methods to determine the topography and collateralization patterns of projections to cortex and certain subcortical sites. The topographical relationships between cells and their terminal fields were confirmed and clarified by the horseradish peroxidase retrograde transport technique. The collateralization of axons was analyzed by the use of multiple fluorescent tracers. These experiments indicated that individual ventral tegmental area cells do not collateralize extensively to either subcortical or cortical terminal fields. Substantia nigra cells, however, give rise to more highly collateralized axons and single cells may simultaneously innervate different regions of cortex as well as subcortical sites. Substantia nigra cells can be divided with respect to their cortical collateralization patterns into three groups: (1) those that innervate cingulate cortices, (2) those that project to prefrontal and suprarhinal cortices, and (3) those that innervate entorhinal cortex.
At least four neuron types, distinguished on the basis of dendritic and cell body morphology, were labeled in the central nucleus of the inferior colliculus after horseradish peroxidase injections into the medial geniculate body of the cat. Most labeled cells had disc-shaped dendritic fields whose orientation and arrangement into layers were important identifying features. Most labeled cells were small or medium-sized disc-shaped cells with dendritic fields and cell bodies of corresponding size. These cell types appeared to have dispersed Nissl substance and infrequent axosomatic endings. Large disc-shaped cells, identified by their large dendritic fields and somata, were also labeled. These may have had a different Nissl pattern, including both perinuclear cisterns and clumps of granular endoplasmic reticulum, and numerous axosomatic synaptic endings. Stellate cells, which constituted the fourth labeled cell type, were distinguished by their spherical dendritic fields composed of dendrites radiating in all directions, especially across the layers formed by the disc-shaped cells. Stellate cells probably corresponded to neurons with stacks or clumps of granular endoplasmic reticulum, an irregular nuclear envelope, and frequent axosomatic contacts. These results suggest that many of the cell types previously identified in studies using the Golgi method send their axons to the medical geniculate body. The results also raise the possibility that Nissl pattern and dendritic morphology of central nucleus cell types are related. The presence of several types of neurons in the central nucleus with axons ascending to the thalamus may provide a structural basis for some type of parallel information processing in this part of the central auditory system.
The efferents of enkephalin-immunoreactive neurons in the magnocellular dorsal nucleus of the guinea-pig were studied using different neuroanatomical methods and indirect immunocytochemical technique. Following unilateral implantation of the fluorescent dye 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole in the lateral septal nucleus, retrogradely-labeled perikarya were found in the magnocellular dorsal nucleus. These labeled perikarya reacted with antiserum against enkephalin, demonstrating that enkephalin-immunoreactive neurons in the magnocellular dorsal nucleus project to the lateral septal nucleus. In other experiments, complete bilateral lesions were produced in the magnocellular dorsal nucleus by electrocoagulation. Enkephalin-immunoreactive nerve fibers and terminals were totally depleted in the lateral septal nucleus. This confirms that septal enkephalin-immunoreactive terminals originate in the magnocellular dorsal nucleus and further suggests that this nucleus is the source of all the enkephalin-immunoreactive material found in the septum. Experiments utilizing two different fluorescent dyes, 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole and propidium iodide, injected in each side of the lateral septal nucleus, respectively, demonstrated that the magnocellular dorsal nucleus gives off axon collaterals to both sides of the septum, since double-labeling of individual cell bodies was detected in the nucleus. By relating this finding to the results obtained after unilateral destruction of the nucleus, which caused an incomplete loss of enkephalin- immunoreactive material in the lateral septal nucleus ipsilaterally, it is suggested that the enkephalinergic hypothalamo-septal pathway contains unbranching neurons projecting ipsilaterally and branching neurons distributing fibers ipsilaterally and contralaterally. Lesion experiments, and experiments based on the retrograde axonal transport of horseradish peroxidase after intravenous injections, demonstrated that the magnocellular dorsal nucleus contributes neither to the tubero-infundibular nor to the hypothalamo-neurohypophyseal tracts. The lateral septal nucleus receives numerous aminergic and peptidergic projections, indicating the potential importance of this region in physiological and behavioral events. In the guinea-pig, the well-demarcated enkephalinergic pathway demonstrated in this study provides a convenient model for the experimental study of the enkephalinergic innervation of the lateral septal nucleus.
Four large geniculate cells that were densely filled with horseradish peroxidase have been studied in detail, at first light microscopically, to define the shape and distribution of the dendritic arbors, and then electron microscopically, to define the pattern of synaptic contacts upon their surfaces. Three of the cells had the morphological characteristics of a class 1 cell, and one cell was intermediate between class 1 and 2. All of these cells had few of the characteristic grape-like appendages, thought to receive retinal input within synaptic glomeruli. Retinal afferents were mainly distributed around proximal juxtasomatic dendritic segments and dendritic branch points. Some retinal afferents made simple axodendritic contacts, while others formed a part of a synaptic glomerulus. None of the retinal afferents forming synapses near the perikaryon were involved in glomeruli. Within the glomeruli involving class 1 cells, retinal terminals can relate both to dendritic segments, particularly near branch points, as well as to dendritic appendages. The few singly placed grape-like appendages were always contacted by retinal afferents, but not necessarily in a glomerular arrangement. Terminals interpreted as cortico-geniculate were seen most commonly upon peripheral dendritic segments, while those containing pleomorphic vesicles (F) were distributed more or less evenly over all parts of the dendritic and perikaryal surface. The perikaryon itself was contacted by F-type terminals but was not contacted by retino-geniculate or cortico-geniculate terminals. A class of slender axonal terminal, containing round synaptic vesicles and few or no mitochondria, was found contacting two of the four perikarya, but the origin of these slender axons is unknown. It is concluded that the surfaces of geniculate class 1 cells can be separated into several functionally distinct zones on the basis of the synaptic contacts they receive.
The distribution of neuropeptide Y immunoreactive cell bodies in relation to various types of catecholamine-containing cell bodies in the rat brain was analyzed immunohistochemically using antisera to tyrosine hydroxylase, dopamine beta-hydroxylase and phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase. Coexistence of the peptide in catecholamine cell bodies was established by using an elution-restaining procedure. Neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity was observed in most noradrenergic cell bodies of the Al/Cl cell groups in the ventro lateral medulla oblongata. Similarly this peptide immunoreactivity was also observed in the majority of the adrenergic cell bodies of the C2 group. In the dorsal and dorsal-lateral part of the nucleus of the solitary tract, where a group of small adrenergic cells is present, several small neuropeptide Y immunoreactive cells were also observed. The possibility of coexistence of adrenaline and neuropeptide Y in these cells remains to be established. The majority of the noradrenergic cell bodies of the A2 group, as well as the presumptive dopaminergic cells within its ventromedial part, seemed to lack neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity. Many noradrenergic cell bodies of the A6 group in the locus coeruleus proper were neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive, whereas the peptide could not be observed in the subcoeruleus group. Neither the A5 and A7 noradrenergic cells in the pons, nor any of the dopaminergic cell groups in the mesencephalon and forebrain (A8-A15) seemed to contain a neuropeptide Y-like peptide. The findings indicate that central catecholamine neurons can be subdivided into distinct sub-groups based upon the coexistence of a specific peptide.
The effects of intracellular applications of QX 222, a quaternary analogue of lidocaine, were investigated in CA1 neurons of in vitro hippocampal slices of guinea-pig brain. QX 222 produced a strong depression of spontaneous, electrically-(by current injection) or orthodromically-evoked action potentials. These dose-dependent effects were characterized by a reduction in the rate of rise and amplitude of spikes, presumed to be mediated by a Na+-conductance. Although resting membrane conductance tended to diminish with prolonged applications of QX 222, marked changes in resting potential generally were not observed. The threshold for eliciting spikes by intracellular injection of depolarizing current was increased greatly by QX 222, reflecting the impairment of Na+-electrogenesis of spikes. The reduction of action potential amplitude by QX 222 may be partly attributable to enhanced inactivation of Na+-channels because brief depolarizing pulses preceded by strong tonic hyperpolarization, elicited spikes at a lower threshold and of considerably larger amplitude than in the absence of such tonic hyperpolarization. These observations on recovery are compatible with a removal of sodium inactivation. However, this experimental paradigm of current injection also might be expected to remove QX 222 molecules from their blocking sites at the inner end of Na+-channels. When spikes were abolished by QX 222, the depolarization evoked with application of S-glutamate by pressure ejection from an extracellular micropipette positioned close to the neuron was attenuated. This reversible blockade was reproducible in the 14 neurons where the interactions of QX 222 and glutamate were examined systematically. Excitatory postsynaptic potentials, evoked by stimulation of strata oriens or radiatum, were reduced in a similar manner by internal QX 222. These data confirm previous observations that voltage-dependent Na+-channels mediating spike genesis in CA1 neurons can be blocked by internal QX 222. However, QX 222 also apparently interferes with the functions of Na+-channels activated by glutamate-receptor interaction or by receptor interactions with neurotransmitter(s) associated with certain excitatory postsynaptic potentials in CA1 neurons.

A simple amplitude discriminator with two ways of triggering DC-level monitoring is described. This system is based on easily available inexpensive integrated circuits.




Gravity is the only environmental parameter that has remained constant during the period of evolution of living matter on Earth. Thus, it must have been a major force in shaping living things. The influence of gravitational loading in evolution of the vertebrate skeleton is well recognized, and scale effects have been studied. This paper, however, considers in addition four pivotal events in early evolution that would seem to have been significant for the later success and diversification of animal life. These are evolution of the cytoskeleton, cell motility (flagellae and cilia), gravity detecting devices (accelerometers), and biomineralization. All are functionally calcium dependent in eukaryotes and all occurred or were foreshadowed in prokaryotes. A major question is why calcium was selected as an ion of great importance to the structure and function of living matter; another is whether gravity played a role in its selection.

In research in the cognitive and neurosciences, a co-occurrence between naming and reading disorders has been found in children and aphasic adults. Evidence from a completed cross-sectional study will be briefly summarized and an ongoing longitudinal study will be presented to suggest that factors disrupting specific stages of the naming process can impede the development of children's reading in particular, perhaps predictable, ways. Based on the components of a neurolinguistic model of naming, a battery of naming and reading tests was administered to a longitudinal sample of 115 children before, during, and after reading acquisition. Preliminary trends indicate that poor readers are significantly different (p&lt;.001) from average readers on all naming tests except those emphasizingreceptive vocabulary perception. Tests emphasizing retrieval rate are best able to predict patterns of naming performance and errors characterize specific subgroups of the dyslexias.

The dynamic characteristics of the human vestibulo-ocular system were studied in the 0.5-30 Hz frequency range by rotating the head around a vertical axis. The rotation produced by a powerful servo-controlled vibrator was transmitted to the head by a hard-cushioned helmet and a rigid bite bar. The vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) gain and phase were measured during fixation of a mobile or stationary visual target and in total darkness. In a second set of experiments, the subjects evaluated the amplitude of the perceived visual instability of the target in the two fixation conditions. The results confirm earlier observations describing the VOR gain and phase in the 0.5-8 Hz range: the gain starts to decrease beyond 2 Hz and the phase rises towards 90 degrees. Beyond 8 Hz, the gain curve reverses direction and increases continuously toward 3-4 at 25-30 Hz in the three tested situations. Meanwhile, the phase curves do not vary much. In the same frequency range, the perceived visual instability is significantly altered. Therefore, the gain variation at high frequency may, in part, explain the perceived visual target instability and may be suspected of altering visually controlled tracking executed in vibrating environments.
A new apparatus is described in which cats must perform a visually guided movement of the forepaw toward a quasi-randomly moving target in order to obtain a reward. The target is a small bulb fixed to the pen carrier of an XY plotter; it moves under a translucent screen and is only visible to the cat when the bulb comes on at the onset of each trial. Sine waves of variable frequency are applied to the X and Y channels, the resulting target trajectory being a complex Lissajous pattern, unpredictable for the animal. Response times of accurate presses (detected by a capacity detector) are calculated and various types of misreachings can be coded, allowing quantification of performance, and comparison between normal and lesioned cats.
The altered feedback technique is very suited to display nonlinearities of the human smooth pursuit system. In fact, when the gain of the retinal feedback path is raised, for the horizontal channel, above its normal unitary negative value, a threshold is met beyond which sustained horizontal self-excited smooth oscillations of the eye can be observed, which point out the existence of a stable limit cycle. Furthermore, the characterizing features of both the transient and steady state show a well defined dependence on the total feedback factor K. In particular, the analytical dependence on K of the amplitude and frequency of limit cycle oscillations can be derived. Implications of the experiment with respect to the mathematical modelling of the system are discussed.


Basic research in the neurosciences has led to a theory of opiate withdrawal involving endogenous opioid peptides and hyperactive norepinephrine neurons. This theory predicts the efficacy of clonidine, a nonopiate agent, in the management of opiate withdrawal. Clonidine, which offers numerous advantages over methadone as a means of opiate detoxification, may be appropriate for use by general practitioners. Clonidine-aided detoxification can be followed immediately by naltrexone maintenance, which facilitates rehabilitation. Cocaine users' reports and clinical and basic studies, when pieced together, provide an outline of the natural history of chronic cocaine abuse. How certain users become addicts is not clear, however. Additional neurochemical research and neurophysiological studies are needed for the development of nonaddictive methods of detoxification ( la clonidine) and prophylaxis ( la naltrexone). In the absence of such studies, cocaine treatment programs use the methods of Alcoholics Anonymous, contingency contracting, and inpatient therapies for addiction.



Evidence concerning the neurobiological basis of face perception is converging from three directions. First, there are studies of neurological patients who present with specific difficulties in the recognition of familiar faces. Second, there are neuropsychological studies of face perception in normal people which identify some of the psychological mechanisms involved in face perception. Thirdly, there are neurophysiological studies in non-human primates which point to specific neural mechanisms which selectively process faces. A review of the literature from these three distinct areas of research suggests that there may indeed be something quite specific about the neural mechanisms selectively processing faces. The evidence from cognitive neuropsychology indicating a hierarchy of stages involved in visual processing and visual recognition suggests that where there is difficulty in recognizing familiar faces resulting from brain damage, the precise nature of the difficulty may depend upon which stage or stages in this hierarchy have been most affected. This in turn will reflect the particular localisation of the lesions that have been sustained.
Recognition of faces and facial expression is an important component of non-verbal human social behaviour. It is believed to be older phylogenetically than verbal communication in man. Presumably we share basic brain mechanisms of face and mimic recognition with other primates. While palaeoanthropological artifacts indicate the existence of artistic creation in the sculptures and paintings of humans since the upper palaeolithic age (about 30,000 years ago), artistic interest in individual human faces is a rather recent development of mankind, which appeared about 4,500 years ago. Human face and mimic recognition as mimic expression is characterized by some left-right asymmetry, indicating a corresponding discrepancy in the contribution of the left and the right cortical hemisphere to these functions. This opinion is not only supported by data from neuropsychological experiments in normals applying tachistoscopic stimulation to the left or the right visual half-field, but also by the symptoms observed in patients suffering from unilateral cortical lesions. Face and mimic recognition is impaired by left hemisphere or right hemisphere lesions, but for certain aspects a higher contribution is accredited to the right hemisphere by the majority of the investigators. A side bias is also evident in portrait paintings, but this has slowly changed over the last 500 years. The symptom of prosopagnosia, which in rare cases exists in the isolated form, depends not only on the sites of the brain lesion (preferably bilateral, occipitotemporal), but also on the individual training and experience of the patient. Clinical observations as well as the data obtained in microelectrode studies of monkey temporal lobe support the existence of face-specific cortical areas.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Ernst Mach (1838-1916) in his many and widely read publications contributed to physics, physiology, and philosophy. His work on the analysis of motion sensation is discussed in the light of contemporary ideas and modern concepts of vestibular physiology.
J.E. Purkyn (1787-1869) was one of the leading physiologists in the first half of the 19th century, became the founder of the &quot;exact subjectivism&quot;, and remained during his entire life a very careful observer in psychophysical experiments. He made moreover many important discoveries in anatomy, neuroanatomy, embryology and pharmacology. Despite his outstanding contributions to science, he remained in his general philosophy and feelings deeply attached to the Romantic spirit of the age. After Purkyn returned to Prague in 1849 he played an important role in his nation's search for a national identity and became a leading figure in the cultural and social life of Prague. Purkyn's contributions to the physiology of vision, the oculomotor and the vestibular systems are reviewed. In vision Purkyn discovered the Purkyn-tree, flicker patterns seen in diffuse light, moving light nebula in the Eigengrau, spatially patterned structures in pressure phosphenes, the antagonistic properties of Galvanic phosphenes with respect to current polarity, periodic afterimages, the Troxler effect for colour perception with the peripheral retina and the principle of the ophthalmoscope. The Purkyn-shift in chromatic sensitivity when the adaptation level shifts from scotopic to photopic vision was rediscovered by Purkyn. Purkyn was the first to describe the &quot;Purkyn images&quot; of the anterior and posterior surfaces of the cornea and the lens and the changes in the third Purkyn image when the eye accommodates. He described optokinetic nystagmus and optokinetic after-nystagmus and explained movement aftereffects as a habituation of the gaze motor system. Important contributions were made by Purkyn to the physiology of the vestibular system, but he did not propose the existence of peripheral receptors for this system. He believed that direct mechanical effects on certain parts of the brain (especially the cerebellum) are responsible for the mechanisms of vertigo. Purkyn's five categories of vertigo are still valid today (vertigo of motion, Galvanic vertigo, vertigo caused by general brain ischemia, height vertigo and vertigo caused by alcohol and other narcotics). Purkyn's contribution to sensory physiology can be considered as one of the essential foundations on which modern sensory physiology and psychophysics are built.


Explant cultures of the myenteric plexus from beneath the taenia coli of newborn guinea-pig caeca were grown on glass substrates in a serum-free, hormone-supplemented culture medium. The growth of enteric neurons, glial cells and fibroblasts and their interactions in this medium were studied over 3 weeks in vitro, and compared with those of cells cultured in the presence of foetal calf serum and in serum-free medium in the absence of added hormones. Enteric neurons, glial cells and fibroblasts survived in the serum-free, hormone-supplemented medium, but this was dependent on the presence of the hormone supplements and also on a brief initial period of exposure to serum-supplemented medium. The pattern of development of the cultures grown in serum-free medium, however, differed markedly from that of cultures grown in serum-supplemented medium: the numbers of enteric glial cells and fibroblasts were substantially reduced in the absence of serum; neurites grew extensively on the glass substrate rather than being restricted to a carpet of glial cells; and reaggregation of neurons and glial cells into compact groups resembling differentiated enteric ganglia did not occur. This ability to grow enteric neurons in a defined chemical environment, without the presence of unknown serum components, thus offers an opportunity for detailed study of the effects of growth and trophic factors on neuronal survival, neurite outgrowth and neurochemical differentiation in the entericnervous system, and also for study of the factors involved in enteric ganglion formation.
The expansor secundariorum is a smooth muscle of the chicken wing which receives a dense noradrenergic innervation and contains high concentrations of trophic activity for sympathetic neurons. Expansor cells were dissociated in trypsin and grown to confluency in standard nutrient medium. Medium that had been conditioned by expansor cells contained trophic activity for chick sympathetic nerves which differed from the activity which is found within the muscle prior to culture, in that it was effective on a different neuronal subpopulation. Furthermore, unlike the factor(s) found in vivo, the trophic activity of the conditioned medium was not enhanced by NGF and could be partially inhibited by mouse NGF antibodies. Both the production of total trophic activity in the conditioned medium and the activity which differed from that in the muscle extract, increased rapidly and to the same extent between 24 and 48 h culture. Greater concentrations of trophic activity were present in medium conditioned by smooth muscle cells than by skin cells. The conditioned medium was able to support more neurons from 11 and 18 day incubated embryos than a saturating dose of NGF. Neither this effect nor the additive effect of conditioned medium with expansor muscle extract could be attributed to the presence of neurite promoting factors. We conclude that the cultured muscle produces neuronotrophic activity that is similar to the activity found in denervated but not innervated muscle.
Several plasma proteins have previously been demonstrated to be within cells (presumed neurons) in the developing brain of various species. The possibility that the plasma proteins -fetoprotein (AFP) albumin and transferrin may be synthesized by developing brain and choroid plexus has been investigated in fetal rats of 18 to 22 days gestation. Samples of these tissues and of liver were incubated in Krebs solution containing [(3)H]leucine at 37C for 1 h. Radioactively labelled AFP, albumin and transferrin were extracted and separated by immunoprecipitation. Incorporation of [(3)H]leucine into the plasma proteins was demonstrated in both fetal brain and choroid plexus. Incorporation was completely blocked by cycloheximide. It is concluded that fetal brain and choroid plexus synthesize AFP, albumin and transferrin and that secretion of these proteins by developing brain and choroid plexus cells probably contributes to the high concentration of plasma proteins in fetal csf.
We sought to examine further the regulation of muscarinic receptors in the developing expansor secundariorum, a smooth muscle of the avian wing. [(3)H]Quinuclidinyl benzilate binding was used as a measure of muscarinic receptors present in the muscle, which gradually decline in density from hatch during the following few weeks. Receptor loss can be prevented by denervation of the muscle immediately after hatch, but receptor density is not recovered by denervation in older birds. As the major innervation is provided by sympathetic, noradrenergic fibres with no evidence of a cholinergic input, the action of several pharmacological agents known to affect noradrenergic transmission was examined. Reserpine partially prevented the early receptor decline but phenoxybenzamine and dimethylphenylpiperazinium did not significantly affect receptor density. The muscle was also immobilized by tenotomy, since this unique muscle is attached to the shoulder by a long, discrete tendon. Tenotomy significantly retarded the normal developmental receptor loss. It is suggested that in this muscle, muscarinic receptor density is regulated by noradrenergic nerves, possibly by a mechanism involving the transmitter, noradrenaline.

A total of 103 patients (40 with pure sensory disturbances, 63 with sensory and motor deficits) with ulnar nerve lesions at the elbow were examined neurophysiologically. The measurement of motor conduction velocity across the cubital tunnel alone did not completely localize the lesion. The latency to an ulnar-innervated flexor muscle was of outstanding importance. The measurement of amplitudes was only rarely of localizing significance. The results of sensory recording proved to be important in patients with pure sensory disturbances. In cases with additional motor deficits, sensory recordings were too often abnormal in all segments of the ulnar nerve to be of substantial localizing value.
A new technique is described for accurate, reliable measurement of eyeball retraction in the rabbit. A narrow film strip, on which a linear light intensity grating has been exposed, is attached to a contact lens which is placed on the animal's cornea. The other end of the intensity grating slides between a photodiode and an LED. The contact lens-film grating assembly moves freely with eyeball retraction and relaxation, causing changes in photodiode output. This device appears to be well tolerated by the animal. Large amplitude eyeball retractions occur in response to air puff stimulation directed at the upper or lower eyelid and to periorbital shock. Average eye retraction latency to stimulation of the abducens (VI) nerve with a chronically implanted stimulating electrode was 5.3 ms (S.D. = 0.75 ms) in the conscious rabbit as measured with our device. Latency to periorbital electrical shock was 9.3 ms (S.D. = 2.1 ms). Eye retraction latency decreased with increasing shock amplitudes. Rabbits readily acquired classically conditioned eyeball retractions, monitored with this device, when a white noise auditory stimulus was paired with an air puff directed at the eyelid.
Richter's discovery of the salt appetite that follows adrenalectomy (1936) raised the question: how does the brain appreciate the need for sodium so that it can mobilize the search for and ingestion of salty substances? It remains unanswered. Recent work suggests that the answer may come from an understanding of the behavioral effects of the hormones of sodium conservation. Fluharty and I have found (Behavioral Neuroscience, 1983) that treatment of salt replete rats with low doses of both angiotensin (Ang II) and a mineralocorticoid (DOCA) evokes a rapid, reliable, and specific appetite for sodium solutions, and we have proposed that the hormones of renal sodium conservation are also the hormones for the behavioral defense against sodium deficiency. We can now report: That the same combined endocrine treatment will compel rats that do not need salt to search for it in a runway. That is, sodium replete rats that have been primed for 3 days with DOCA (500 micrograms/day), which does not produce an appetite for salt, and are then given a pulse intracerebroventricular (ICV) injection of Ang II (60 ng), which by itself does not produce an appetite for salt, will run in an alleyway in order to ingest small drops of 3% NaCl. The hormones act together to make the rat avid for salt and their action is sufficient to drive it to seek salt at a distance and to ingest it at a concentration that untreated rats avoid.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The first part of this report is devoted to the anatomy, nerve supply, and physiology of the striated sphincter, three subjects which greatly aroused a great deal of controversies. The conclusions of the authors are as follows. The striated sphincter of the urethra is a muscle of the perineum, arising from the cloacal sphincter. The deep transverse, bulbo-cavernous, anal sphincter, ischio-cavernous and superficial transverse muscles have the same embryological origin and together with the sphincter of the urethra form the accessory pelvic diaphragm. The embryological origin of the levator ani muscles is different. These arise from the caudal muscles and form the principal pelvic diaphragm. The striated sphincter of the urethra is unequally distributed in the male and female fetus. According to our anatomical concept, the urethral sphincter includes two structures: the para-urethral sphincter and the peri-urethral sphincter. The para-urethral sphincter form an integral part of the urethra and is distributed principally along the membranous part of urethra but extends approximately to the bladder neck and distally under the perineum aponeurosis. In the adult as in the fetus, the para-urethral striated sphincter is unequally distributed along the urethra, according to sex. In the male, it surrounds the membranous urethra and is absent from the posterior face of the prostatic urethra. By contrast, in the female, the sphincter surrounds the proximal third of the urethra and the rings are incomplete on the distal third. The peri-urethral striated sphincter includes the other muscles of the perineum and of the principal pelvic diaphragm. These two structures differ from a microscopic stand point; the para-urethral striated sphincter contains only narrow calibre slow fibers, with the absence of the neuro-muscular spindles. By contrast, the peri-urethral sphincter consists of slow and rapid fibers and contains neuro-muscular spindles. The nerve supply of the peri-urethral striated sphincter is insured by internal pudendal nerves. The para-urethral striated sphincter is supplied in great part of the same internal pudendal nerves arising from neurones situated in the nucleus of Onuf. However, the pelvic nerves may contain a group of accessory fibers from the same origin. There is no proof available as to the role played by the sympathetic nervous system. When micturition comes to an end, the para-urethral sphincter causes a constriction of the membranous urethra in the male, and single flattening of the middle part of the urethra in the female.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The problem of recording brain stem evoked potentials of a short latency in the submicrovolt range is discussed. A flow-chart of the system is selected, and a circuit diagram of a stimulator to produce pain and auditory impulses that excite the evoked brain stem potentials is presented.
A design of a compact micromanipulator giving possibility to introduce the microelectrode into unlimited depth of the brain and to realize the penetration of it into the narrow area of trepanized cranial of the animal several times has been worked out and described. Small size and mass of the design allow to set up several micromanipulators on the cranial of different experimental animals and to record the neuronal activity of the different brain structures simultaneously.
Modern methodologies of the study of the brain sensory activity, basic data on the mechanisms of information coding and a number of hypotheses on information decoding are presented. A new concept of the sensory function of the brain united two main properties (coding and decoding) according to the dominant motivation and past experience is formulated.
Surface charges of isolated neurons of rat dorsal root ganglion were studied by the microelectrophoresis. It was shown that the surface potential of these neurons is produced by anion groups which form complexes with calcium ions and a binding constant ranging from 10 to 50 1/mole; they can be titrated by hydrogen ions according to pK = 3.8. Under trypsin treatment the surface loses most of these groups. Tosylchloride (reagent for aminogroups ) slightly increases the surface charge and N- bromsuccinimide (reagent for carboxylic groups) partially neutralizes it. It is suggested that the surface charge of rat dorsal root ganglion neurons measured by the microelectrophoresis is mainly determined by carboxylic groups of periphery proteins. These groups seem to be located in the glycoprotein sheath which covers the outer surface of the membrane. According to our estimates the average distance between these groups is about 2 nm and the thickness of the sheath is about 10 nm.
Binomial parameters of transmitter secretion were calculated on the basis of synaptic potential analyses at frog sartorius muscle. In some synapses negative values of parameter of the p were found. These negative values often occurred at low concentrations of Ca2+ ions and small amplitude of miniature end plate potentials. The obtained data were interpreted in terms of a model which presupposes the heterogeneity of the quantum transmitter release at different sites. A computer imitation of transmitter secretion showed that the appearance of the negative p parameter values and erroneous n estimations in the experiment are related with the shape of the distribution of quantum transmitter release probability and the amplitude of miniature end plate potentials.
Cholecystokinin (CCK) and dopamine (DA) co-exist in ventral tegmental neurons which project via the mesencephalic pathway to the nucleus accumbens of the rat. CCK and DA are located in separate neurons in the substantia nigra which projects via the nigrostriatal pathway to the caudate nucleus in the rat. The functional significance of this peptide-amine co-localization was investigated using behavioral and neurophysiological techniques. CCK injected directly into the nucleus accumbens potentiated apomorphine-induced stereotypy and dopamine-induced hyperlocomotion. CCK injected directly into the caudate nucleus had no effect on apomorphine-induced stereotypy or dopamine-induced hyperlocomotion CCK injected alone into either site did not induce stereotypy or hyperlocomotion. The dose-response curve to apomorphine induction of stereotypy was shifted to the left by CCK, indicating increased sensitivity to the dopaminergic agonist. Neurophysiological analysis of the firing rate of ventral tegmental neurons demonstrated that CCK produced a left-shift in the dose-response curve of apomorphine on inhibition of neuronal firing. These data suggest that CCK acts as a modulator of dopamine, increasing neuronal responses to dopaminergic agonists. The potentiation of dopamine by CCK may be specific to the mesolimbic neurons, where CCK and DA co-exist in the rat.
Purified acetyl-CoA: choline O-acetyltransferase (EC 2.3.1.6) from Drosophila melanogaster has been shown to contain two major polypeptides of 67 and 54 K Daltons. However, all enzyme activity is found in a single molecular weight form of approx 67 K Daltons as determined by sucrose gradient sedimentation and molecular exclusion chromatography. The latter showed both the 67 and 54 K Dalton polypeptides on polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis in sodium lauryl sulfate (10% acrylamide). Analysis of purified choline acetyltransferase on polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis in sodium lauryl sulfate (15% acrylamide) revealed the presence of an additional polypeptide at 13 K Daltons. Tryptic-peptide maps of the 67, 54 and 13 K Dalton components showed all three to be structurally related. In addition to several common tryptic peptides, the 13 K Dalton polypeptide contained three tryptic-peptides that were also found in the 67 K Dalton polypeptide, but were absent from the 54 K Dalton polypeptide. This evidence suggests that native Drosophila choline acetyltransferase may exist in two forms, one a single polypeptide chain with a molecular weight of 67 K Daltons and the other consisting of two noncovalently bound polypeptide chains with molecular weights of 54 and 13 K Daltons. The latter form is the major one isolated and may be generated by limited proteolysis of the single chain 67 K Dalton form.
The authors describe the application of Akt -30 Aktograf apparatus designed by the branch of the Centre of Medical Technique in Bia  ystok for recording extrapyramidal involuntary movements, cerebellar dyssynergia and clonic movements.




We have used phosphorus-31 nuclear magnetic resonance to study the secretion of adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) from the medulla of perfused pig adrenal glands. The resonances of the nucleotide pools in the chromaffin granules and cytoplasm are clearly resolved and therefore the intragranular and cytoplasmic processes involving ATP can be monitored simultaneously in the gland during secretion. Secretion of nucleotide during a 3 h continuous stimulation by infusion of acetylcholine chloride was monitored by the decrease in intensity of the intragranular ATP resonances. Up to 40% of the total intragranular nucleotide was released under these conditions. The rate of secretion decreased with duration of stimulation. No significant changes in the steady-state levels of cytoplasmic ATP or in oxygen consumption were observed. The intragranular pH in ischaemic glands was 5.52 + 0.15, while in glands which had been perfused until their cytoplasmic nucleotide levels had recovered, the intragranular pH was 5.76 +/- 0.16. These results provide the first estimate of the internal pH of the chromaffin granules in intact perfused adrenal glands and show that no net acidification occurs in the presence of cytoplasmic ATP. However, the isolated chromaffin granule possesses a proton-pumping adenosine 5'-triphosphatase which, in the presence of a permeant counter-ion, such as chloride, acidifies the granule interior. It is, therefore, suggested that in the intact cell, the cytoplasmic concentration of permeant counter-ions is too low to allow electrically neutral proton accumulation in the granules.
The sensory neurones innervating long prosternal hairs of Locusta migratorioides were backfilled with horseradish peroxidase through their dendrites. The neurones' central projections in and around the medial ventral tract were examined with electron microscopy. Most synapses occur on axon collaterals which ramify through the neuropile around the tract where both input and output synapses were observed. Serial sectioning methods were used to determine the relative distribution of inputs and outputs which often lie in close proximity to one another on the axon terminals. The prosternal hair terminals contain agranular synaptic vesicles approximately 37 nm in diameter. Surrounding unidentified neuropilar profiles contain vesicles which are either statistically indistinguishable in size, or are larger, 45 nm diameter agranular vesicles. Neurones which are pre- or postsynaptic to labelled terminals generally contain vesicles of the second type. Input synapses onto the central terminals of primary afferent neurones can be recognised as a widespread phenomenon in the nervous systems of both invertebrates and vertebrates which will allow a fine degree of control of sensory inflow into the central nervous system.
An increase in the number of nerve branches of the unmyelinated axon terminals with increasing age was observed in normal adult mouse motor endplates. In addition, ultrastructural investigation revealed signs of nerve retraction. A combined light and electron microscopic investigation was performed on zinc-iodine-osmium stained endplates in soleus muscles. The number of branch points in a synapse, endplate length and muscle fiber diameter were evaluated in &quot;young adult&quot; (3 months) and adult (6 and 11 months) mice. For all 3 parameters, 3-month-old animals had the lowest values. Eleven-month-old animals had more branch points and larger endplate lengths than 6-month-old animals while there was no significant difference in fiber diameters. Branch point numbers and endplate length were correlated in each muscle while fiber diameters did not correlate with any of the other parameters. The ultrastructure of 15 thin nerve branches--likely candidates for new branches--was investigated in serial section and in 14 of them synaptic contacts were found. Near such contacts, empty gutters, possibly abandoned former synaptic sites, were present in several cases. It is concluded that there is continual nerve sprouting in synapses of adult mice and that sprouts form synaptic contacts. The possible signs of nerve retraction observed indicate that, as in the frog, synaptic contacts in mouse muscles undergo some continual remodeling.
Recently, we developed a model based on experimental data, which includes a pair of antagonistic muscles, a general load against which the muscles act, feedback pathways from muscle sense organs and spinal inhibitory circuits involving 1A interneurons and Renshaw cells. Descending inputs can activate the model through combinations of inputs to alpha-motoneurons, gamma-motoneurons (via intrafusal muscles and their feedback pathways) or the 1A interneurons. The role of each of these connections is analysed here in terms of its effect on the response of the muscles to impulse inputs, with particular interest in the effects on the overall stability of the systems. Increasing muscle stiffness or feedback from muscle receptors tends to produce high frequency oscillations. Coactivation of alpha- and gamma-motoneurons can lead to cancellation of oscillations, because of delays in the effects of gamma-motoneurons on contraction. Connections of 1A inhibitory interneurons onto antagonist motoneurons accentuate the oscillations. Inhibitory connections from Renshaw cells onto alpha-motoneurons tend to prevent oscillations, whereas the concentrations onto gamma-motoneurons may produce them.
Supraoptic nuclei of lactating rats present a particular anatomical organization that could serve to facilitate the synchronization of neuronal firing observed during suckling-induced reflex milk ejections. Although magnocellular neurones are usually separated by neuropil elements, particularly glial fibers, in lactating rats, numerous neurosecretory soma and dendritic profiles are in direct apposition, without glial interposition. Concomitantly, there is also a higher incidence of presynaptic terminals contacting two neurosecretory elements in the same plane of section (&quot;double&quot; synapses). In the present study, a quantitative ultrastructural analysis was used to trace the evolution of the structural reorganization of the nucleus at different stages of the reproductive cycle. The percentage of neurosecretory soma and dendritic profiles in direct apposition was low two weeks after the beginning of pregnancy, but the day prior to parturition, as during lactation, over 40% of all neurosecretory profiles were directly in contact and involved about 10% of the total neuronal surface membrane measured (a 5-fold increase over the corresponding frequencies recorded in virgin rats at oestrus). The contiguous neuronal membranes and associated intercellular space appeared unmodified, except for the presence of attachment plaques, that also increased in frequency at late gestation and lactation. The incidence of &quot;double&quot; synapses also increased by late gestation, so that at lactation, they bridged 8% of all the recorded neurosecretory somata and dendrites, (as compared to 1% in the virgin rats). Similar changes were observed during a first and second gestation and lactation. The incidence of direct appositions and &quot;double&quot; synapses then diminished gradually after weaning: 2 months after the end of lactation, the ultrastructure of the nucleus resembled that of virgin animals. These observations demonstrate a plasticity in the structural organization of the supraoptic nucleus that appears closely related to changing physiological states of the animal and that involves both neurone-glial relationships and the neurones' synaptic configuration.
We have examined the ontogeny of the microtubule-associated protein, MAP2 in rat cerebellum using biochemical and immunocytochemical techniques. In adult animals MAP2 can be resolved as a doublet of polypeptides (referred to here as MAP2a and MAP2b). In young rats only the lower molecular weight MAP2b was present in cerebellar cytosol; MAP2a appeared by 20 days postnatally. The identification of the polypeptides as MAP2a and MAP2b in heat-stable fractions of cytosol was confirmed by peptide mapping which also demonstrated that MAP2a and MAP2b shared virtually identical peptide maps. Using a rabbit anti-MAP2 antibody that was characterised by immunoblotting of cerebellar homogenates, the localisation of MAP2 was examined in 10-day-old and adult cerebella. In 10-day-old animals, MAP2 immunoreactivity was detected in the external germinal layer, granular layer and most strikingly in Purkinje cell bodies and dendrites. Parallel fibre axons were unstained. In contrast both axons and dendrites were stained by an antibody against alpha-tubulin. In adult animals MAP2 immunoreactivity was largely confined to Purkinje cell dendrites. The absence of assembled microtubules from Purkinje cell dendrites of young animals despite the presence of MAP2 and tubulin immunoreactivity may be explained by the presence of only a single MAP2 polypeptide (MAP2b) whereas the presence of the MAP2 doublet polypeptides in the adult may facilitate polymerization. Since MAP2b does not co-assemble with microtubules efficiently in vitro it may represent a form of MAP2 unable to stimulate microtubule assembly. Therefore, the possibility exists that MAP2b may play an alternative role during dendritic growth.
Purkinje cell maturation during thyroxine-induced metamorphosis in premetamorphic bullfrog tadpoles was studied using electron microscopy and Golgi (silver-impregnated) preparations. Cerebella from tadpoles were examined following 1, 2, or 3 weeks of thyroxine treatment. Particular attention was paid to possible differences between the two populations of Purkinje cells previously described, i.e. (i) the smaller population located in the dorsal part of the cerebellum, where the Purkinje cells show dendritic arborization long before the appearance of the external granular layer, and (ii) the larger population located in the middle and ventral regions of the cerebellum, where the Purkinje cells begin to undergo maturation during metamorphosis when the external granular layer is established. Following thyroxine treatment, both populations of Purkinje cells showed rapid maturational change. In the mature (dorsal) group, dendritic growth resumed in the presence of an external granular layer increasing the complexity of their dendritic arbors. Moreover, climbing fiber synapses translocated from contacts on the soma to the thorns of growing dendrites, and somatic processes often disappeared. The immature (ventral) group showed dramatic differentiation of the perikaryon including polarization of cytoplasm with subsequent dendritic outgrowth and formation of somatic processes in the presence of climbing fibers. Stellate cell contacts appeared on the smooth portion of the soma of many Purkinje cells. Dendritic growth during thyroxine-induced metamorphosis was characterized by growth (elongation) with minimal branching, which is initially observed during spontaneous metamorphosis. Typically, these growing dendrites ended in growth cones, some with one or several filopodia. Developing Purkinje cell dendritic spines formed synapses with parallel fibers. The present study has provided an example of the dramatic nature of thyroxine's action in inducing the complex series of detailed maturational changes in the cerebellum 1-2 yr ahead of schedule. In addition, the results show that thyroxine-induced Purkinje cell maturation is more rapid and synchronous than that seen during spontaneous metamorphosis. It is concluded that Purkinje cell maturation during metamorphosis is largely dependent on thyroid hormone.

Changes in the amplitude of the calcium inward current caused by intracellular administration of tolbutamide (an inhibitor of the cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase activity) or catalytic subunits of cAMP-dependent protein kinases from rabbit myocardium were studied on internally perfused nerve cells of the snail, Helix pomatia. Intracellular administration of 7 mM tolbutamide caused a rapid decline of the amplitude of the calcium current that had been stabilized by theophylline; the effect was practically completely reversible. In contrast, addition to the perfusing solution of exogenous catalytic subunits of cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinases (about 0.7 microM of protein) together with 2 mM adenosine 5'-triphosphate and 3 mM MgCl2, led to stabilization of the calcium conductance of the cell membrane or restored it if it had declined during the perfusion with basic solution. The effect depended largely on the presence of adenosine 5'-triphosphate. Its time course was very slow (dozens of minutes) due probably to slow diffusion of the protein inside the cell. Heat-inactivated catalytic subunits did not produce such a stabilizing or restoring action on the calcium conductance. The results substantiate the suggestion that the normal functioning of calcium channels depends on phosphorylation catalyzed by cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinases.
In after-hyperpolarization-neurons of guinea-pig myenteric plexus, several types of slow responses to repetitive activation of synaptic inputs were recorded. There were at least two types of slow excitatory depolarizing potential, both associated with an increased input resistance, but in one there was an abolition or marked attenuation of the amplitude of the slow after-hyperpolarization of the neuron, whereas in the other type the slow after-hyperpolarization was not significantly affected. Slow depolarizing and hyperpolarizing synaptic potentials associated with a decrease input resistance were also recorded in some neurons following transmural stimulation. The neural processes responsible for these slow potentials in after-hyperpolarization-neurons showed no preferential projection within the myenteric plexus.
Some characteristic features of the functional innervation of guinea-pig vas deferens have been determined. Both ganglionic transmission from the hypogastric nerves and impulse propagation in proximal regions (main branch bundles within about 15 mm from the prostatic end of the organ) of the majority of single postganglionic sympathetic fibres of vas deferens nerve, had a high safety factor. Failure at these levels cannot account for the intermittent pattern of electrically-evoked secretion of transmitter from the individual varicosity of the terminals of vas deferens nerves, observed under identical experimental conditions. The shape of the extracellular single fibre action potential recorded by small calibre suction electrodes remained constant in proximal regions of vas deferens nerve, when the frequency of stimulation was varied between 0.5 and 8 Hz. Therefore, frequency-dependent facilitation of transmitter secretion in this tissue cannot be explained by frequency-dependent growth in the amplitude of nerve action potentials, as earlier assumed. However, when recordings were made in distal regions of vas deferens nerve (in small axon bundles, close to their points of insertion into the substance of the epididymal end of the organ), on two occasions fibres were found in which the safety factor for impulse conduction was low and frequency-dependent. The possibility is discussed that this feature, which was an exception in these non-terminal regions of vas deferens nerve, may be shared by the majority of fibres as they proceed distally towards the terminals. Clearly, if this is the case, intermittent failure of transmitter secretion from the individual varicosity may be due, at least in part, to intermittent failure of conduction of the nerve impulse to the terminals. Some useful qualitative information on the ionic basis of the extracellular nerve action potential, that might underlie a proximo-distal decline in the safety factor for impulse conduction in these nerves, was obtained by determining the effects on the shape of the signal, caused by varying the ionic composition of the medium (sodium, calcium), and by local addition of agents with known actions on sodium (tetrodotoxin), potassium (tetra-ethyl ammonium, 4-aminopyridine, rubidium, barium) and calcium channels (cobalt, manganese, lanthanum, nickel, D-600). By these criteria, the action potential that was shown to be a &quot;normal&quot; sodium-potassium spike, in proximal regions of vas deferens nerve, was found to have a different &quot;pharmacological profile&quot;, in distal regions of the nerve, in a manner suggesting that here nerve impulse conduction had become somehow &quot;calcium-dependent&quot;.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The magnocellular neurones of the supraoptic nucleus which synthesize and secrete vasopressin and oxytocin have been commonly regarded as simple &quot;output&quot; neurones in that they receive an input, generate an action potential and in turn release hormone from their terminals in the posterior pituitary. Three lines of evidence are presented which suggest that rat supraoptic nucleus neurons also have axon collaterals which terminate in the hypothalamus close to the nucleus. Small injections of horseradish peroxidase were made directly into the nucleus in hypothalamic slices, allowing visualization of the axons of supraoptic neurones. Collaterals of these axons could be observed in regions both dorsal and dorsolateral to the supraoptic nucleus. In a separate series of experiments, sections of perfusion-fixed hypothalamus were stained for vasopressin and oxytocin using specific antisera. Peptide-containing collaterals of both types were observed near the supraoptic nucleus, in a region similar to that seen after horseradish peroxidase injections. Finally, electrophysiological studies were carried out on hypothalamic slices containing the supraoptic nucleus. A small concentric bipolar stimulating electrode was placed directly into the nucleus and activity of lateral hypothalamic neurones within 0.1-1 mm of the nucleus was recorded. Of 68 neurones studied, 52 were excited by supraoptic stimulation via a synaptic pathway that could be blocked by Ca2+ -free solutions containing 18 mM Mg2+. These studies suggest that supraoptic neurones communicate via axon collaterals with other neurones in the lateral hypothalamus, in addition to their previously well characterised functional role in neurosecretion.
The actions of the neurotoxic amino acids folate and kainate have been compared on ortho-and antidromic responses evoked in CA1, CA3 and the dentate gyrus of slices of rat hippocampus maintained in vitro. Both in CA1 and the dentate gyrus superfusion of these acids caused an increase in amplitude of the population spike discharging from an excitatory postsynaptic potential which either remained unaffected or was reduced. In the CA3 region kainate and folate had broadly similar actions to enhance the probability of cell firing to synaptic excitation, and also caused epileptiform discharges to occur spontaneously or in response to electrical stimulation. Spontaneous and evoked population bursts in CA3 did not persist in low calcium/high magnesium medium indicating their dependence on intact synaptic transmission; spontaneously occurring bursts in CA1 were eliminated with the latter treatment or when the axonal connections between it and CA3 were cut. Following folate superfusion the commissural-evoked response in CA3 showed large and variable shifts of the latency which were dependent on the stimulus intensity and its timing after a spontaneous population discharge. Although all of the effects of folate were reproduced by bicuculline, no evidence for a decreased recurrent inhibition in CA1 was obtained although this was observed with kainate. The finding that folate and kainate produced their effects in the absence of a detectable effect on the antidromic population spike suggests a mechanism of action other than neuronal depolarization. The implications of these data for the neurotoxic mechanism(s) and the receptor homologies of folate and kainate are discussed.
In experiments on rats under urethane anaesthesia--in which the fimbria and hippocampal commissure had been cut previously to eliminate orthodromic inputs--the negative antidromic population spike evoked in CA3 by fimbrial stimulation was measured inside and outside 73 neurons in the stratum pyramidale. Subtraction of the extracellular from the intracellular records showed that on the average 39.2% (S.E. 1.93) of the extracellular population spikes appeared as a positive, depolarizing transmembrane potential. Similar measurements in the dendritic zone of CA3, where the extracellular antidromic population spike is positive, revealed a smaller and hyperpolarizing transmembrane potential, whereas presumed neuroglia showed no consistent transmembrane potential in either direction. Further tests demonstrated clear facilitation of individual pyramidal cell firing, synchronous with the antidromic population spike. These observations are consistent with the possibility that, owing to the unusually close packing and regular alignment of the pyramidal neurons, electrical field interactions in CA3 tend to promote synchronized mass discharges.
The distribution of several neuropeptides (vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, cholecystokinin octapeptide, substance P, neurotensin, methionine-enkephalin and somatostatin) in the hippocampal formation has been studied with immunocytochemical techniques. Numerous vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, cholecystokinin-octapeptide and somatostatin-positive cell bodies were found within the hippocampus and subiculum. Neurotensin-positive cell bodies were found within the subiculum, but no substance P or methionine-enkephalin-containing cell bodies were seen in either hippocampus proper or subiculum. Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and cholecystokinin-octapeptide-positive cell bodies were predominantly located in the stratum moleculare and stratum radiatum of CA 1-2 regions and dentate gyrus, whilst somatostatin-containing cell bodies were found mainly in the stratum oriens. Nerve fibres containing each of the six peptides were found within the hippocampus. Large numbers of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, cholecystokinin-octapeptide and somatostatin fibres innervated the pyramidal and granule cell layers, with smaller numbers in the stratum radiatum and fewer still in the stratum moleculare and stratum oriens. Other than a moderately dense neurotensin-positive fibre plexus in the dorsal subiculum, fewer neurotensin, substance P and methionine-enkephalin fibres were present. However, when present, these three peptides had a distribution restricted to a region close to the pyramidal layer in the CA 2/3 region and to the stratum moleculare of the CA 1 region. Peptide-containing fibres were identified entering or leaving the hippocampus in three ways, via (i) the fornix (all six peptides), (ii) the dorsal subiculum (neurotensin-positive fibres projecting to the cingulate cortex: somatostatin, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, and cholecystokinin-octapeptide present in fibres running between the dorsal subiculum and occipito-parietal cortex) and (iii) the ventral subiculum (vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, cholecystokinin-octapeptide and somatostatin in fibres running between entorhinal cortex and hippocampus, and all six peptides in fibres crossing the amygdalo-hippocampal border). These findings indicate a major distinction between those peptides (vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, cholecystokinin-octapeptide, somatostatin, neurotensin) which are found in cell bodies intrinsic to the hippocampal formation and those peptides (substance P, methionine-enkephalin) which are found only in hippocampal afferents.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
All evidence that serotonin release from central neurones is controlled by a negative feedback mechanism comes from in vitro studies. To study this problem in vivo we performed differential pulse voltammetry in conscious rats, in which carbon fibre electrodes had been implanted 2-15 weeks previously. The effects of monoamine oxidase inhibition (which decreases the amount of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid), as well as that of probenecid (which increases 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid), suggests that 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid rather than serotonin is measured. Blockade of the presynaptic serotoninergic autoreceptors by methiothepin, metergoline or quipazine led to an increase in differential current of the peak attributed to 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid in hippocampus, hypothalamus and striatum. Stimulation of these receptors by m-chlorophenylpiperazine, MK-212 or LSD decreased the signal attributed to 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid. A decrease in the signal was also seen with cinanserin. Stimulation of presynaptic alpha 2-adrenoreceptors by clonidine decreased the signal. Metergoline, quipazine and cinanserin showed biphasic effects, and no effect was observed with methysergide. In general, a reasonable agreement with the results of Baumann &amp; Waldmeier obtained in vitro with electrically stimulated [3H]serotonin prelabelled cortex slices was achieved with differential pulse voltammetry. Only partial agreement with the results of voltammetry was obtained if 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid was determined biochemically under comparable conditions. Qualitatively, the effects observed with methiothepin, m-chlorophenylpiperazine, clonidine and LSD were in good agreement with those measured with voltammetry as well as with the in vitro effects obtained in electrically stimulated cortex slices. No, or only partial correlation with the results obtained with voltammetry was found with MK 212, cinanserin, metergoline and quipazine. It is concluded that voltammetry preferentially measures extraneuronal 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid rather than overall changes of this metabolite.
High affinity uptake sites for 3H-labelled amino acids were studied in synaptosome-containing homogenates processed biochemically or in surface autoradiograms of incubated slices of hippocampus. D-aspartate and L-glutamate had apparently identical distributions. In normal rat hippocampus the highest uptake was in the terminal fields of axons from the pyramidal cells of regio inferior and hilus fasciae dentatae, while there was a moderate uptake in the terminal fields of the medial and lateral perforant paths, slight uptake in the mossy fibre layer and no uptake in the terminal fields of the basket cells. Uptake sites for gamma-aminobutyrate were concentrated in the latter fields, and in the most superficial cortical layers. The present method shows no uptake in cell bodies. The uptake activities were strongly inhibited by recognized blockers of (neuronal) high affinity uptake of glutamate or gamma-aminobutyrate. Autoradiographically, several other amino acids showed negligible uptake. The uptake of D-aspartate was reduced by 80% in stratum oriens and stratum radiatum of regio superior 4-14 days (70% at 3 days) after transection of the afferent pyramidal cell axons from the ipsi-and contralateral regio inferior. The reduction was in the number of uptake sites, not in their affinity. Uptake of gamma-aminobutyrate was not reduced. Lesions affecting regio superior caused a loss of D-aspartate uptake in subiculum at a site known to receive hippocampal afferents. Autoradiographically, the uptake of D-aspartate was strongly reduced in the inner zone (i.e. the target zone), but increased in the middle zone of the dentate molecular layer after lesions of the hilus fasciae dentatae. At 4 days and longer after transection of the entorhinal afferents, there was a conspicuous reduction of D-aspartate and L-glutamate uptake in the target zones of both the medial and lateral contingent of these fibres. In the same animals, the terminal zone of afferents from hilus fasciae dentatae had an increased radioactivity and was slightly wider than normally. Concomitantly, the gamma-aminobutyrate uptake was increased in the target zones of the degenerating perforant path fibres. The results demonstrate that uptake sites for D-aspartate and L-glutamate are highly localized in axon terminals of regio inferior pyramidal cells and in perforant path afferents. The latter category of terminals has a lower density of acidic amino acid uptake sites than the former. Uptake sites for gamma-aminobutyrate are localized in terminals of intrinsic neurones, including the axosomatic terminals of basket cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

The effect of neuroleptic drugs administered acutely or continuously for 1 year on the release of [3H]glutamate and [3H]acetylcholine from striatal slices in vitro has been compared. Acute in vivo administration of haloperidol, trifluoperazine and clozapine increased the potassium-evoked release of [3H]acetylcholine from striatal slices in a dose-dependent fashion, whereas sulpiride was without effect. None of the neuroleptics given acutely had any effect on the potassium-evoked striatal release of [3H]glutamate. Potassium-evoked striatal release of [3H]acetylcholine in animals receiving 1 year's continuous administration of haloperidol, trifluoperazine or sulpiride was no different from that in age-matched control animals, but was less than controls in animals receiving clozapine for 1 year. All drugs caused a decrease in potassium-evoked striatal [3H]glutamate release following drug administration for 1 year compared to age-matched controls. The reversal of the acute action of neuroleptic drugs on striatal [3H]acetylcholine and [3H]glutamate release is consistent with a functional increase in striatal dopamine transmission following long-term neuroleptic treatment.
The effects of L-glutamate on the potency of kainate for stimulating guanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cyclic GMP) accumulation and for killing neurones in incubated slices of immature (8-day) and adult rat cerebellum were investigated. L-glutamate did not potentiate the cyclic GMP responses to kainate in either the adult or the immature tissue (in contrast to a recent report), nor did it alter the pharmacological characteristics of this postsynaptic action of kainate in the immature cerebellum. Slices incubated for 2 h in the presence of L-glutamate displayed pronounced glial swelling and neuronal damage. These effects were concentration-dependent and neurones in the immature cerebellum proved to be about 10 times more susceptible than in the adult. None of the neuronal cell types appeared to be selectively vulnerable to the toxicity of glutamate. At the lower concentrations tested (300 microM in the immature tissue, 3 mM in the adult), neurotoxicity was largely restricted to regions near the cut edges of the slices, indicating that very effective mechanisms limit the diffusion of glutamate within the cerebellum. Kainate caused selective necrosis of Purkinje cells and inhibitory interneurones in slices of adult cerebellum at concentrations between 5 and 20 microM; 30 microM kainate, however, also affected granule cells. The neurotoxic potency of kainate towards all neuronal cell types was significantly lower in the immature cerebellum and was not enhanced by including glutamate in the incubation medium. Similarly, glutamate did not potentiate the neurotoxicity of kainate towards Purkinje cells and inhibitory interneurones or or towards granule cells in adult slices. It is concluded that the availability of glutamate is unlikely to be a factor which limits the neurotoxicity of kainate either in the immature or in the adult cerebellum. The increase in the neurotoxic potency of kainate with cerebellar maturation can be ascribed, more readily, to be developmentally-related appearance of kainate receptors.


Spectral analysis provides a description of the moments of random signals and enables the characterization of the behaviour of systems in terms of input-output relations. The merits of such an approach in the study of signal transmission in skeletal muscle are described in this paper. The representation of neural spike trains as impulse sequences and the subsequent treatment appropriate for this kind of analysis are discussed together with some practical problems. Spectral analysis of muscle afferent signals is applied to data obtained from cat experiments, and the use of the related frequency-domain techniques is demonstrated on a subsystem of the stretch reflex.
Our ultrastructural study of serial sections has shown that type II hair cells of the anterior part of the utricular macula are integrated into the afferent neural circuitry of type I cells, which are arranged in clusters. Additionally, there exists a complex system of intramacularly originating efferent-type nerve fibers and terminals. The findings taken together suggest that, on morphological grounds, complex processing of sensory information occurs in gravity receptors. Asymmetry of such a complex system may contribute to motion and Space-motion sickness.


Pierre Janet's Ls Obsessions et la Psychasthnie, Vol. 1 (1903) still stands as the most authoritative work on obsessional and related disorders yet written, but it remains unavailable to an English readership. This article presents an English synopsis of the French original. Janet considers the central problem to be a special mental state which he terms psychasthenia, entailing low psychological tension and an impotence of adaptation to reality. Especially affected are the reality functions of attention, volition, and present-related emotion. Their failure leads through diversion of mental energy to the forced agitations, i.e., mental manias, ruminations, tics, phobias, and anxiety. Obsessions are a late and variable development, when present they symbolize the underlying mental state of incompleteness. The full significance of Janet's contribution may have yet to be established by developments in the neurosciences.
Buspirone is a clinically effective anxiolytic with a unique structure and pharmacology which distinguishes it from the benzodiazepines. It has been termed anxioselective because it lacks anticonvulsant, sedative, or muscle-relaxant properties. Preclinical evidence suggests it lacks potential for abuse or physical dependence and interacts minimally with CNS depressants such as alcohol. Rather than working through traditional benzodiazepine mechanisms, buspirone affects diverse aspects of the brain's neurochemical circuitry. For example, it exerts potent influences on the nigrostriatal and mesolimbic dopamine systems, the dorsal raphe serotonergic system, and the locus coeruleus noradrenergic system. Although without direct receptor interaction, potentiation of cholinergically mediated behavior and involvement with GABAergic neurotransmission have also been demonstrated.
Involuntary eye movements at the onset of sleep are mentioned in Virgil's Aeneid (19 BC). &quot;Nystagmus&quot; in relation to states of lowered consciousness was painstakingly catalogued by Sauvages (1768). Sporadic studies of eye behavior during sleep were recorded during the 19th century and were associated with disorders of brainstem physiology, culminating in von Economo's observations during the encephalitis lethargica epidemic of the 1920s.




A procedure is described for measuring locomotor activity and place preference using an Apple II + computer. The interface consists of a single integrated circuit connected by a 16 pin jumper cable to the Apple's game I/O connector. This approach can be easily adapted to provide sequential reading of one to seven input lines from up to 16 different test boxes. The software is written in basic and doesn't require any knowledge of memory addressing or machine language programming.
This report deals with the construction and use of an apparatus which makes in ovo microinjection of avian embryos a precise and repeatable technique.
Computer processing of many electrophysiological events requires analog-to-digital conversion (ADC) of the time-varying signal. Inadequate ADC sampling rates affect the accuracy of amplitude and latency measurements and introduce rate-limited errors. A second class of errors, termed limited-precision errors, result from the limitation imposed by the word size (in bits) of the ADC. Total error is the sum of rate-limited error and limited-precision error, but can be controlled and specified as described here. Given the critical nature of ADC parameters, a standard is proposed for describing ADC performance.
A method is described to record the X,Y-coordinates of two bright spots on a TV image. These spots are produced by a light-emitting diodes (LEDs) assembly, which must be affixed on the moving target. The system was developed to record head movements of free-moving animals, chronically implanted to bear a socket LEDs holder, but it can be easily adapted to other applications, such as the measure of limb displacements in Man. Recordings are allowed up to 25 frames per second with an approximate spatial resolution of 255(X) X 300(Y). The method, which is based on standard TV equipment, involves a hardware interface, feeding the X and Y counts into a laboratory minicomputer and data acquisition software. A sample record is shown and other applications are discussed in relation to current non-video and video actographic techniques.
Quantitative electron microscopy is used widely in many neurobiological laboratories but can be greatly enhanced by the computer storage, display and analysis of features or boundaries observed under the microscope. An interactive system is described, in which a microprocessor and microcomputer combination controls the data acquisition and display; more detailed analysis can be carried out on a mainframe computer. The performance of this system is examined and it is shown to be a cheap and effective solution, capable of expansion in many directions.
Neurophysiological and behavioral work often requires that various laboratory stimulators be feedback-stabilized. We describe the design and performance of a versatile electronic controller that can be used to extend and flatten the frequency response of commercially available stimulating devices. The design includes flexible proportional-integral-derivative control action and active second-order, high-pass compensation. As an example application of this controller to 3 different electro-mechanical vibrator/transducer combinations demonstrates that the useful frequency response can be extended by more than a decade as compared with the uncontrolled device.
Tracking the firing threshold of membranes is best accomplished with threshold hunters, automatic devices that adjust stimulus strength so as to hold constant the probability of an all-or-none response. We present a formalism for analyzing the performance of threshold hunters. An index for error is defined between the threshold of the membrane and the output of the threshold hunter. Errors are separated into tracking error, quantization error, and a fluctuation error that reflects the probabilistic nature of responses to liminal stimuli. The engineering trade-offs between these errors are quantified for conditions where the threshold undergoes rapid transients (e.g. after conditioning impulses) and where it changes more gradually (e.g. during exposure to anesthetics or recovery from tetanus). Several methods for decreasing the total error of the threshold hunter by using the outcomes from previous test stimuli are analyzed quantitatively to provide criteria for the design of hunters to extract a maximum of information concerning threshold with a minimum of interference with the preparation. In nerve axon the distribution of the firing threshold depends on impulse activity patterns, and a strategy for measuring this effect is presented.
Procedures are described for determining trace quantities of Pt released into brain tissue directly beneath cortical surface stimulation electrodes. Implanted electrodes (1.1 mm Pt discs) were stimulated for 4.5 h, 9 h and 36 h (4 X 9 h/day) with balanced biphasic pulses (20 micro C/cm2 or 100 micro C/cm2 per phase, 50 Hz), following which tissue 0-2 mm beneath stimulation electrodes and the encapsulating tissue adherent to electrodes was excised and analyzed for Pt. A time-dependent increase in Pt concentration was observed between 4.5 h (4-20 ng Pt/stimulation site) and 9 h (50-339 ng Pt/site) of stimulation at 100 micro C/cm2 with nearly all of the Pt located in the encapsulating tissue associated with the electrodes. Somewhat less Pt was observed in the 36 h samples, and it was almost equally distributed between the encapsulating tissue of the electrodes and the first millimeter depth of underlying brain tissue. Little or no Pt was found at electrode sites receiving 20 micro C/cm2 pulses. Control brain tissue samples as well as samples of blood, CSF and kidney were negative for Pt. The findings indicate that the rate of Pt dissolution gradually decreases during in vivo stimulation, and that dissolved Pt may slowly move away from stimulation sites, possibly by diffusion or fluid exchange.
A method for the construction of long, slender shaft glass micropipettes is described. The diameter of the pipettes is comparable to metal microelectrodes that are used when multiple penetrations are required to record from neurons in relatively small targets located deep within brain tissue. The advantages of the slender micropipettes over metal microelectrodes are that: (1) the pipettes can be rapidly and reliably produced for consistent shape, size and impedance characteristics, (2) dyes can be used to define recording sites, (3) substances that carry a stable ionic charge such as soluble dyes or drugs can be ionophoreticaly applied through the pipette and, (4) both extra- and intracellular recordings are feasible.
The assumptions upon which a correct interpretation of the t-test depends are rarely fulfilled by data from the neurosciences. This applies to both independent and correlated samples. The Mann-Whitney U-test is suggested as an alternative for the t-test for independent samples. The way in which significant results from this test should be interpreted is discussed. The Wilcoxon matched-pairs signed-ranks test is not suggested as an alternative for the t-test for correlated samples, since significant results can occur with this test, even when there are no differences between the distributions of the two samples tested. A modification of the U-test for dependent samples is proposed instead. The use of the latter test, and of the U-test, is illustrated by numerical examples from real data.
The protein kinase activities endogenous to synaptic membranes prepared by an identical procedure from avian (chick) and mammalian (rat) brains were compared. Both species showed similar responses towards both protein kinase effector molecules cyclic adenosine monophosphate and Ca2+. Kapp for cyclic adenosine monophosphate-dependent protein kinase activity occurred at 0.4-0.8 microM cAMP and Kapp for Ca2+-dependent, calmodulin-requiring protein kinase activity occurred at 1-2 microM Ca2+ (free ion concentration) both in the absence or presence of calmodulin added to the reaction mixture. This suggests that endogenous calmodulin in these membranes was able to modulate the Ca2+-dependent, calmodulin requiring protein kinase activity. After EGTA-treatment of the membranes to remove endogenous Ca2+ and calmodulin, no significant response towards Ca2+ on the phosphorylation of the membrane polypeptides was measured unless exogenous calmodulin was added after which the Kapp for Ca2+ was increased to 15 microM Ca2+ (free ion concentration). There was a difference in the maximal levels of kinase activity in these membranes with chick membranes containing 57% less cyclic adenosine monophosphate-dependent protein kinase activity, but 65% more Ca2+-dependent, calmodulin-requiring protein kinase activity than the rat membranes. Similar results were determined when either low (5 microM) or high (5.8 microM) concentrations of adenosine 5'-triphosphate were added to the reaction mixtures. Besides certain species differences in the molecular weights of the resulting phosphoproteins, we observed several major differences with respect to the absence or presence of some of the phosphoproteins. Chick synaptic membranes may lack the cyclic adenosine monophosphate-requiring, microtubule-associated phosphoprotein, MAP2, one of the 2 neurospecific, cyclic adenosine monophosphate-requiring and Ca2+, calmodulin-requiring phosphoproteins (Protein Ib, although Protein Ia apparently is present), and the Ca2+-requiring, calmodulin-independent, ACTH-sensitive phosphoprotein, B50. The phenothiazines, trifluoperazine, fluphenazine and chlorpromazine were found to inhibit the Ca2+-dependent, calmodulin-requiring protein kinase activities of both the chick and rat synaptic membranes. This inhibition appeared to be specific for calmodulin because at the same concentrations the phenothiazine analogue, chlorpromazine-sulfoxide, had no effect on this activity. Also found to inhibit Ca2+-dependent calmodulin-requiring protein kinase activity were dibucaine and adrenocorticotropin. These data suggest that rat forebrain synaptic plasma membranes are activated by cyclic adenosine monophosphate
The cholinesterase activity of Xenopus laevis oocytes was assessed using [3H]acetylcholine in a simple radiometric procedure. The cholinesterase activity of mature (stage V-Vl) oocytes was very sensitive to inhibition by the specific acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, BW284-C5l, and relatively insensitive to an inhibitor of non-specific, or butyrylcholinesterase. The Km and Vmax of the acetylcholinesterase measured in homogenates of oocytes were 312 microM and 4.6 nmol-oocyte 1-h 1, respectively. Triton X-100 increased the enzyme activity of homogenates four- to five-fold while collagenase treatment displaced into the medium none of the acetylcholinesterase activity from either homogenates or intact oocytes. Cations were found generally to diminish the acetylcholinesterase activity of oocyte homogenates, and lanthanum ions inhibited acetylcholine hydrolysis with an IC50 of 0.63 mM. Subcellular fractionation of oocytes revealed that the bulk of enzyme activity was associated with particulate fractions. Acetylcholinesterase activity was also detected on the surface, and in homogenates, of immature oocytes. Peak enzyme activity resided in stage IV oocytes. Eggs obtained from females induced to spawn were found to have acetylcholinesterase activity in homogenates but little or no hydrolytic activity was detected on the egg surface. These results provide a point of departure for further investigations of the functional significance of this enzyme in Xenopus oocytes.
The properties of action potential conduction in single axons of the cat thoracic spinal cord were examined with microelectrode recording and electrical stimulation in vitro. The study included normal animals, animals chronically paralyzed by contusion of the cord, and animals showing some degree of locomotory recovery following a similar injury and several weeks of transient paralysis. The control studies were designed to compare the results of microelectrode sampling in vitro with morphological and in vivo physiological data. The pathophysiological studies were intended to investigate the continuity and function of axons identified morphologically in paralyzing lesions, and to examine the hypothesis that functional loss is associated with chronic axonal dysfunction, as well as direct axonal loss. Most of the recordings were made from dorsal columns and ventral tracts at 23-25 degrees C. The conduction velocities recorded in the normal cord were consistent with morphological data on caliber spectra, given the selectivity of the microelectrodes for larger axons. The refractory period of transmission was approximately 2-4 ms at 23-25 degrees C and 0.7-2 ms at 37 degrees C. Prolonged depolarizing after-potentials were recorded, following action potentials greater than 70 mV amplitude. Axons outside the lesion in injured cord showed only slight reductions from control in the mean and range of conduction velocity and refractory period distributions. The number of axons impaled per electrode track was reduced by up to one half. Relatively few impaled axons conducted through the lesion site in the injured cords: 16% in recovering animals and 7% in chronically paralyzed, as compared with 61% in uninjured controls. The mean conduction velocity of these through-conducting axons was significantly less than that of the normal population, particularly in paralyzed animals, and refractory period was significantly prolonged for conduction through the lesion in the paralyzed group. When axons conducting through the middle of the isolated spinal tract were challenged by raising the temperature, conduction block occurred below physiological temperature (37 degrees C) for 7% of axons in controls, 14% in recovering and 73% in paralyzed cats. The mean temperature of heat block in normal axons was 41 degrees C. Some axons appear to survive in paralyzing contusion trauma of this type. Those axons that remain in the lesion site project through it but their conduction properties are abnormal, particularly in animals that remain chronically paralyzed. Action potentials in many axons may be effectively blocked at the chronic lesion site, contributing to the overall functional d
The rates of reinnervation of the rat soleus muscle by its own or an alien nerve were compared using physiological and morphological criteria. The muscle's own nerve was more effective than the alien nerve in establishing functional connections with the original endplates. The relative ineffectiveness of the alien nerve during early stages of reinnervation was more apparent using physiological rather than morphological criteria. Five to six weeks after nerve injury there was no longer any difference between the muscles supplied by either nerve.
We have shown that purified acetylcholinesterase has the ability to hydrolyze a number of peptides including the physiologically occurring enkephalins. The enkephalins lost both the amino- and carboxyl-terminal amino acids, but several other peptides were not degraded. The enzyme was purified using an affinity chromatographic matrix that recognised one component of the active centre that is specific to cholinesterases, the anionic-binding site. The acetylcholinesterase was extracted from four tissues of diverse origin to minimise the risk of co-purifying a peptidase. The enzyme was essentially homogeneous on polyacrylamide gels, and there was only one protein that bound diisopropylfluorophosphate in the samples. The peptidase activity was not affected by the aminopeptidase inhibitor puromycin, but it was inhibited by acetylcholine at concentrations that also reduced the esterase activity. It was concluded that acetylcholinesterase also has the capacity for a novel type of hydrolysis of peptide bonds. The ability of acetylcholinesterase to hydrolyse naturally occurring compounds of different chemical nature, like esters and peptides, may help explain the long-standing puzzle of why the enzyme is more widely distributed than acetylcholine, once thought to be its sole natural substrate. The localization of the enzyme probably more accurately reflects the distribution of all its substrates, although their identity remains to be determined.
The lateral and basolateral nuclei of the rat amygdala have been studied with the rapid Golgi method. Both nuclei have similar cell types, which closely resemble cells in the cerebral cortex. Therefore, we suggest that what is known about cortical circuitry can be used as a guide for studying synaptic circuitry in the lateral and basolateral nuclei. The most abundant neurons that are impregnated in both nuclei are pyramidal cells. They have conical cell bodies and easily recognizable apical and basilar dendrites. The ones in the center of each nucleus have long axes that roughly parallel the long axis of the nucleus. Towards the periphery, pyramidal cells have apical dendrites that either stick directly across the nucleus or follow along a nuclear border. The peripheral dendrites tend to enclose the nuclei. There is considerable overlap among the dendritic trees and the dendrites of one nucleus extend into the territory of the other. Pyramidal cells have extensive axonal systems. The principal axon of basolateral cells usually projects rostrally but long collaterals leave the nucleus in other directions. The axons of lateral nucleus pyramidal cells are also widely distributed. The major thrust of their axons is caudal and lateral. Stellate cells are the most common variety of the non-pyramidal cells. They occur in both nuclei and have round cell bodies, 10-15 micron diameter, and spherical dendritic trees that are confined to a limited region of the nucleus. Their axons form dense terminal fields that remain within the vicinity of the parent cell's dendritic tree. Another type of non-pyramidal cell is the cone cell, whose non-spiny, varicose dendrites describe cones. These neurons are found mainly in the apex of the lateral nucleus. The most rare non-pyramidal cells are the extended neurons, which have long, straight dendrites that reach beyond the nucleus into surrounding neuropil. They are mostly in the rostral part of the basolateral nucleus but also occur in the lateral nucleus, near the ventricular border. The axons of cone cells and the extended neurons have been only partially impregnated. We also have examined stellate cells in the guinea-pig lateral and basolateral nuclei. They have many of the same features as those in the rat brain, except that their dendritic trees and axonal systems are more complicated. There are two large groups of afferents: one consists of longitudinally running axons and the other of transversely coursing fibers.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The development of retinal projections to the pretectal complex of prenatal and early postnatal cats has been examined using the anterograde transport of horseradish peroxidase and tritiated amino acids. As early as embryonic day 38, the entire dorsal pretectum is penetrated by retinal ganglion cell axons. At this stage the bilateral complement of retinal efferents appears to be dispersed uniformly within the pretectal anlage. A week later, on embryonic day 46, indistinct foci of peroxidase reaction product can be discerned within 2 of the primordial nuclei: the nucleus of the optic tract and the olivary nucleus. By embryonic day 56, five distinct bilateral fields of retinal fiber termination are apparent within the following regions: (i) the nucleus of the optic tract; (ii) the pretectal olivary nucleus; (iii) the posterior pretectal nucleus; (iv) the anterior pretectal nucleus; and (v) the medial pretectal nucleus. Four days before birth, on embryonic day 61, crossed and uncrossed retinal arbors are partially segregated within the nucleus of the optic tract and the pretectal olivary nucleus. The early postnatal retinal connection to the pretectum has an overall pattern virtually indistinguishable from that of the mature cat. The ontogeny of the retinal influx to the pretectum is similar to that of the retinocollicular projection. However, the development of retinal projections to the pretectum and superior colliculus appears to lag behind those to the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus. These differences may reflect temporal and spatial gradients in the maturation of three major classes of retinal ganglion cells.
The organization of the hooded rat's dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus was studied with anatomical techniques, with particular regard to the representation of temporal retina and the binocular field. The ipsilateral and contralateral retinal terminal fields were examined in three stereotaxic planes following injections of horseradish peroxidase into the eye. Projections arising from the temporal crescent of the retina were studied with silver staining techniques for anterograde degeneration products. Following discrete retinal lesions there was clear evidence that the temporal retina projects in a topographic fashion both ipsilaterally and contralaterally. The orientation of the lines of projection in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus was assessed by retrograde labelling of cells after cortical implants of horseradish peroxidase. Although both the lines of projection and the ipsilateral terminal field extend rostro-caudally in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus, their paths are oblique rather than parallel. Their intersection appears to correspond to the representation in this nucleus of conjugate retinal points. This was confirmed by administering horseradish peroxidase by iontophoresis in either the binocular or monocular representation of the primary visual cortex, while one eye received an injection of [3H]proline. Only those cortical injections in the binocular region gave rise to labelled projection lines passing through the autoradiographically-labelled ipsilateral terminal field. The rat's dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus displays none of the cytoarchitectural lamination which is so prominent in the primate and cat. Even after labelling the input to the nucleus from one eye, there is still no obvious laminar relationship between the terminal fields from the two eyes. Despite the absence of lamination, the current results suggest that the principle of apposing the representation of conjugate retinal points in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus is the same in the rat as in cat and monkey.
Afferent projections to the inferior colliculus in the North American opossum have been examined using the retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase. Projections to primarily the contralateral inferior colliculus arise in the dorsal and ventral cochlear nuclei, the auditory nerve nucleus and the spinal trigeminal nucleus pars caudalis, while ipsilateral projections arise in the superior paraolivary nucleus, the ventral nucleus of the trapezoid body, the ventral nucleus of the lateral lemniscus, the paralemniscal nucleus, the deep layer of the superior colliculus and the parabrachial nucleus. Bilateral projections to the inferior colliculus originate within the dorsal column nuclei, the nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis pars ventralis, the lateral and medial superior olivary nuclei, the dorsal nucleus of the lateral lemniscus and the auditory cortex. Nissl, fiber and Golgi-stained preparations were used to study the neuronal organization of those auditory nuclei with projections to the inferior colliculus. Anterograde axonal degeneration and transport techniques revealed that the inferior colliculus is innervated differentially by the dorsal and ventral cochlear nucleus, the superior olivary complex and the auditory neocortex. Axons from the contralateral dorsal cochlear nucleus and the ipsilateral superior olivary complex innervate both the central nucleus and external cortex, whereas those from ventral cochlear nucleus and contralateral, superior olivary complex project to only the central nucleus. Projections from auditory cortex form the complement of those from the cochlear nuclei and superior olivary complex, that is, they terminate in a thin band overlying the dorsal cortex and the superficial layer of external cortex. Our results have been compared with those obtained from eutherian mammals and it is clear that there are striking similarities in neuronal organization and connectivity. Since the opossum is born 12 days after conception and has an extended development in an external pouch, it may be suited for developmental studies of the mammalian auditory connections and the behaviors dependent of them.
The cellular origin and degree of collateralization of the subcortical afferents to the caudate nucleus and the putamen in squirrel monkeys (Saimiri sciureus) were studied using the following combinations of fluorescent retrograde tracers: Evans blue and DAPI-Primuline, Fast blue and Nuclear yellow, True blue and Nuclear yellow. After the injections, cells containing the tracer delivered in caudate nucleus (caudate-labeled cells) and others labeled with the complementary tracer injected in putamen (putamen-labeled cells) occur in large number in intralaminar nuclei, substantia nigra pars compacta, midbrain raphe nuclei and central midbrain tegmentum. In addition, a small to moderate number of putamen-labeled cells is found in external pallidum, pulvinar and laterodorsal thalamic nuclei, and basolateral amygdaloid nucleus, whereas some caudate and putamen-labeled cells are scattered in ventral tegmental area and locus coeruleus. However, ver few double-labeled cells are present in all these structures. In rostral intralaminar nuclei, the labeled cells are not confined to the know cytoarchitectonic boundaries of the nuclei but impinge slightly upon ventrolateral and mediodorsal nuclei. At this level, the caudate-labeled cells lie more dorsally and medially relative to putamen-labeled cells, but a high degree of intermingling exists and some double-labeled cells occur particularly in nucleus centralis lateralis. In caudal intralaminar nuclei, caudate-labeled cells are strictly confined to parafascicular nucleus and putamen-labeled cells present only in centre median, without any overlap between the two neuronal populations. In substantia nigra pars compacta, clusters of caudate-labeled cells are closely intermingled with clusters of putamen-labeled cells according to a complex mosaic-like pattern that varies along the rostrocaudal extent of the structure. Overall, however, caudate-labeled cells predominate rostrodorsally and putamen-labeled cells are more abundant caudoventrally in substantia nigra pars compacta, with only a few double-labeled cells. Some caudate and putamen-labeled cells are also scattered in contralateral substantia nigra pars compacta. In dorsal raphe nucleus, putamen labeled cells tend to occupy a more lateral position relative to caudate-labeled cells, with again very few double-labeled neurons. The caudate and putamen-labeled cells are less numerous and more closely intermingled in nucleus centralis superior. Numerous striatal afferent cells are also found bilaterally in the peribrachial region of midbrain tegmentum, comprising the pedunculopontine nucleus area.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Three experiments contrasted the effects of 6-hydroxydopamine-induced lesions of the ventral noradrenergic and dorsal noradrenergic projections, predominantly to hypothalamus and cortex, respectively, upon body weight changes and food-related behaviour in the rat. In general, ventral noradrenergic bundle lesions enhanced weight gain and these effects were exaggerated by the provision of palatable cheese to the standard chow diet. In contrast, lesions of the dorsal noradrenergic bundle produced minor changes in body weight. Associated with the effects of ventral noradrenergic bundle lesions were hyperphagia, enhanced suppression of intake of food adulterated with quinine, (at high concentration), a small attenuation of food neophobia, and enhanced acquisition, but not performance, of the eating response to tail-pinch stimulation. These ventral noradrenergic bundle lesions failed to alter basal activity levels, amphetamine anorexia or the diurnal pattern of eating or activity. In contrast, lesions of the dorsal noradrenergic bundle did not produce either hyperphagia or enhanced rejection of food adulterated with quinine. However, there was a strong attenuation of food neophobia and a retarded acquisition (but unimpaired performance) of eating in response to tail-pinch stimulation. The results are discussed in connection with previous studies of ventral and dorsal noradrenergic bundle lesions, with the effects of ventromedial hypothalamic lesions and with the underlying behavioural and physiological processes that mediate these contrasting effects of different neuroanatomical patterns of central noradrenaline depletion.
Immunohistochemical and biochemical techniques were used to look for serotonin in the adrenal medulla of the rat. Using antibodies to serotonin, noradrenaline and adrenaline, it could be shown that the adrenaline-storing cells are highly immunoreactive for serotonin. Noradrenaline-storing cells were not stained even after administration of the precursors L-tryptophan and 5-hydroxytryptophan, or of serotonin itself. Specificity of the immune reaction was studied by both absorption and inhibition experiments. Chemical assays showed that rat adrenals contain significant amounts of serotonin (1.4 +/- 0.11 micrograms/g wet weight) which is about 0.4% of the adrenaline levels. Serotonin could be reduced to about 10% of control by a high dose of reserpine. From differential and sucrose gradient centrifugation experiments it was concluded that serotonin is probably stored in granules also containing adrenaline. Administration of 5-hydroxytryptophan led to a marked increase of the serotonin level, preferentially in the granular fraction. This increase could be blocked almost completely by a decarboxylase inhibitor. Serotonin administration did not result in a statistically significant increase of the serotonin concentration. Serotonin levels were not changed either after administration of L-tryptophan or the tryptophan hydroxylase inhibitor H22/54. These results indicate that there is no significant synthesis of serotonin from L-tryptophan. It is suggested that the serotonin present in the adrenaline-storing cells is derived from circulating serotonin and/or 5-hydroxytryptophan. Serotonin taken up directly from the circulation or formed by decarboxylation from 5-hydroxytryptophan is subsequently incorporated in the chromaffin granules.
Areas of fetal rat brain and spinal cord known to contain enkephalin-like immunoreactive cell bodies and/or terminal fields were transplanted to the anterior chamber of the eye of adult rats. Enkephalin-like immunoreactive neurons survive and produce an enkephalin-like immunoreactive fiber network within grafts of spinal cord, ventral medulla oblongata, ventrolateral pons, tectum, locus coeruleus, substantia nigra and the areas containing columna fornicis and globus pallidus. Although single intraocular grafts of neocortex do not apparently contain enkephalin-like immunoreactive fibers, such grafts contain a variable amount of sparsely distributed enkephalin-like fibers when sequentially grafted in oculo with either locus coeruleus or spinal cord. Combinations of locus coeruleus and globus pallidus contained a rich enkephalin fiber network in the locus coeruleus part and a sparse innervation of the globus pallidus part. We conclude that enkephalin-like immunoreactive neurons in small areas of fetal rat brain can be successfully transplanted to the anterior chamber of the eye. They are able to survive and develop to maturity in complete isolation from the rest of the brain. In general, the enkephalin-like immunoreactive fiber density in the various single grafts approximated that of their brain counterparts in situ. Fiber formation can be reinitiated in mature enkephalin-like immunoreactive neurons by addition of new brain target areas. Thus, the technique permits establishment of isolated, defined enkephalin systems and pathways accessible to functional analysis.
Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide was localized by immunocytochemical techniques in the major pelvic ganglion and penile erectile tissue of the rat. Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide fibers were concentrated in penile crura with the density of innervation decreasing distally. The helicine arteries were very densely innervated while fewer fibers surrounded the deep artery of the penis. Intrinsic smooth muscle of the cavernous bodies received a moderate supply of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide immunoreactive fibers. Dorsal vascular structures, including the deep dorsal vein were innervated by vasoactive intestinal polypeptide fibers. Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide immunoreactive cell bodies were found in the major pelvic ganglion, concentrated on one end of the ganglion. Retrograde studies with a dye injected into the penile crura indicated that neurons in major pelvic ganglion projected to the penis. Combined dye and immunofluorescent studies showed that all the dye-labeled neurons were immunoreactive for vasoactive intestinal polypeptide. It is concluded that all vascular beds in the penis of the rat are innervated by vasoactive intestinal polypeptide fibers and that the extent of the innervation is related to the occurrence of smooth muscle. Neurons in the major pelvic ganglion probably are the main source of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide fibers to the penis.
Dorsal column postsynaptic neurons in the lumbosacral enlargements of cats and a monkey were retrogradely labeled by placing horseradish peroxidase on their severed axons in the thoracic dorsal columns. After visualizing the retrogradely-labeled neurons, the tissue was immunocytochemically stained with an antiserum directed against serotonin. Immunoreactive axonal varicosities contacted the perikarya and proximal dendrites of every retrogradely-labeled neuron examined in cat (mean 61 contacts/cell) and nearly every neuron in the monkey (mean 18 contacts/cell). Electron microscopy showed that the immunoreactive axonal varicosities contained pleomorphic (round to oval) agranular vesicles and formed symmetrical synapses on retrogradely-labeled neurons. It is concluded that dorsal column postsynaptic neurons are innervated directly by the brain stem's descending, serotoninergic system(s).
The experiments were designed to quantify pharmacologically the degree of participation of channels associated with the nicotinic cholinoceptor compared with voltage-sensitive channels during the evoked release of [3H]noradrenaline from prelabelled 3-7-day old cultured bovine adrenal chromaffin cells. To achieve this purpose we studied (a) the release of [3H]noradrenaline evoked by secretagogues known to trigger the secretory response through activation of receptor-associated channels (acetylcholine, nicotine), voltage-sensitive Na+ (veratridine) and Ca2+ (high [K+] ) channels or direct, channel-independent promotion of Ca2+ entry (ionomycin); and (b) the selective blockade of some of those responses using ionic manipulations (Na+ deprivation, high Mg2+) or drugs known to block the activity of receptor-operated channels (imipramine, cocaine), voltage-dependent Na+ (tetrodotoxin) or Ca2+ (nitrendipine) channels. Inhibition by nitrendipine, a potent Ca2+ antagonist, of the secretory responses to both nicotine and high [K+] indicates a preferential Ca2+ entry through voltage-sensitive channels during the secretory process. Blockade by cocaine and imipramine of the release of [3H]noradrenaline evoked by acetylcholine and nicotine, without alteration of the responses to high [K+], veratridine or ionomycin, speaks in favor of a selective inactivation of the nicotinic receptor-associated channel. Since Na+ deprivation abolished [3H]noradrenaline release produced by nicotine, it seems that Na+ entry through the receptor-linked ionophore might be a primary event in the initiation of the secretory process; the fact that tetrodotoxin did not affect the release favors this view. However, veratridine induced a tetrodotoxin-sensitive secretory response, suggesting the presence of voltage-sensitive Na+ channels which might physiologically be used to propagate action potentials through gap junctions between adjacent chromaffin cells, only in the intact gland.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
To provide further evidence that some enteric neurons use gamma-aminobutyrate (GABA) as a neurotransmitter, we have demonstrated a depolarization-induced release of [3H]GABA from isolated myenteric ganglia in culture, and from segments of large intestine containing the myenteric plexus. In addition, light and electron microscopic autoradiography has been employed to visualize the putative GABAergic neurons and their projections, both in cultured ganglia and in sections from the gut wall. Explant cultures of the guinea-pig myenteric plexus, containing only neurons and glia intrinsic to the gut, were incubated with 0.14 microM [3H]GABA, washed and then repeatedly depolarized by 62 mM K+. The depolarizations always evoked release of [3H]GABA. The evoked release was reversibly blocked by 5 mM Co2+, suggesting a dependence on Ca2+ influx, a characteristic of neuronal transmitter release. Strips of the guinea-pig taenia coli, containing the myenteric plexus, were incubated with 0.14 or 0.7 microM [3H]GABA, washed and subjected to electrical field stimulation. This caused release of [3H]GABA, which could be evoked successively on repeated stimulation. The release was of neuronal origin and Ca2+ dependent, since it was abolished by 3 microM tetrodotoxin and reversibly blocked by 10 mM Co2+. By combined electrophoresis and chromatography the released tritium was identified as being attached to GABA. Autoradiography, following incubation with low concentrations of [3H]GABA, was used to identify specifically putative GABAergic neurons. Light microscopic autoradiography of cultured ganglia, and electron microscopic autoradiography of sections from the taenia coli including the myenteric plexus, were in good agreement, showing a selective and heavy labelling over a sub-population of neurons, and light labelling over glial cells. The majority of neurons and the non-neural cells were unlabelled. The electron microscopic autoradiographs also showed heavy labelling over some, but not all, axons in the fine axon bundles that innervate the longitudinal muscle of the taenia. These results strongly support our previous suggestion that a population of myenteric neurons are GABAergic, although more work is needed before this is fully established. Our data also suggest that some of the putative GABAergic neurons project out to the gut musculature, where their axons, together with axons from other neurons, run in bundles to form the intramuscular nerves. We therefore propose that one of the roles of these neurons in the gut is the presynaptic modulation of transmitter released from neighbouring axons in these nerves.
There is a specific, high affinity uptake of angiotensin II in the circumventricular organs when the peptide is injected systemically. The question of whether angiotensin II in cerebrospinal fluid can reach angiotensin receptors in the circumventricular organs was investigated in rats by determining the effect of intraventricular administration of the angiotensin II receptor blocking peptide [Sar,Ala]angiotensin II (saralasin) on the binding of blood-borne [125I]angiotensin II. Other rats received intraventricular saline, intraventricular ACTH as a peptide control, or intravenous saralasin. The brains of the rats were then sectioned and subjected to radioautography. ACTH had no effect on angiotensin II uptake. Intraventricular saralasin reduced the uptake of blood-borne angiotensin II in the median eminence and organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis to the same degree as intravenous saralasin, and reduced uptake in the subfornical organ and area postrema to a lesser extent. Uptake was reduced 40% in the anterior lobe of the pituitary by intraventricular saralasin and 73% by intravenous saralasin, indicating that some saralasin entered the portal vessels. Uptake in the posterior lobe was unaffected by intraventricular saralasin, but reduced by intravenous saralasin. The data indicate that saralasin, and so presumably angiotensin II, in the cerebrospinal fluid can reach angiotensin II receptors in the circumventricular organs which bind blood-borne angiotensin II. Consequently, the effects of intraventricular angiotensin II that are also produced by intravenous angiotensin II can probably be explained by the peptide acting on the circumventricular organs.
The ontogeny of the cholecystokinin-8 neuron system in the lower brain stem of the rat was investigated by means of indirect immunofluorescence. Cholecystokinin-8-like immunoreactive structures first appeared in the primordium of the ventral tegmental area, ventral tegmental nucleus of Gudden and the area lateral to the superior central nucleus of the fetus on gestational day 17. Although cholecystokinin-8-like immunoreactive structures appeared gradually in various lower brain stem areas from this day, and developed markedly from postnatal day 6, thereafter, the ontogeny of cells and fibers was different. In general, the fibers increased in number as the rats grew and reached the maximum in adulthood, whereas the cells reached a maximum number between postnatal days 6-12, after which they decreased in number. Colchicine treatment, however, demonstrated the presence of cholecystokinin-8-like immunoreactive cells in various areas of the lower brain stem. These findings suggest that the cholecystokinin-containing neuron system is active in the adult and that cholecystokinin-containing cell somata cannot store a sufficient amount of the peptide for visualization in the absence of colchicine. Thus, it might be concluded that cholecystokinin may play an important role in the brain function of the adult as a neurotransmitter or neuromodulator, though its exact function is now open to discussion.
The physiological and morphological (light and electron microscopy) properties of six retractor bulbi motoneurones were analysed using the technique of intracellular recording and intracellular labelling with horseradish peroxidase. The retractor bulbi motoneurones were identified by antidromic invasion and orthodromic responses following stimulation of trigeminal afferents were studied. Two of these motoneurones were examined ultrastructurally. Terminal boutons forming synapses with labelled soma, labelled proximal and distal dendrites were characterized. Serial sections allowed the axon hillock to be analyzed and the initial segment of a presumed motoneurone to be observed in the section where the injected motoneurone was described. The ultrastructure of unidentified elements observed in the accessory abducens nucleus is stressed.
Monoclonal antibodies to choline acetyltransferase and a histochemical method for the concurrent demonstration of acetylcholinesterase and horseradish peroxidase were used to investigate the organization of ascending cholinergic pathways in the central nervous system of the rat. The cortical mantle, the amygdaloid complex, the hippocampal formation, the olfactory bulb and the thalamic nuclei receive their cholinergic innervation principally, from cholinergic projection neurons of the basal forebrain and upper brainstem. On the basis of connectivity patterns, we subdivided these cholinergic neurons into six major sectors. The Ch1 and Ch2 sectors are contained within the medial septal nucleus and the vertical limb nucleus of the diagonal band, respectively. They provide the major cholinergic projections of the hippocampus. The Ch3 sector is contained mostly within the lateral portion of the horizontal limb nucleus of the diagonal band and provides the major cholinergic innervation to the olfactory bulb. The Ch4 sector includes cholinergic neurons in the nucleus basalis, and also within parts of the diagonal band nuclei. Neurons of the Ch4 sector provide the major cholinergic innervation of the cortical mantle and the amygdala. The Ch5-Ch6 sectors are contained mostly within the pedunculopontine nucleus of the pontomesencephalic reticular formation (Ch5) and within the laterodorsal tegmental gray of the periventricular area (Ch6). These sectors provide the major cholinergic innervation of the thalamus. The Ch5-Ch6 neurons also provide a minor component of the corticopetal cholinergic innervation. These central cholinergic pathways have been implicated in a variety of behaviors and especially in memory function. It appears that the age-related changes of memory function as well as some of the behavioral disturbances seen in the dementia of Alzheimer's Disease may be related to pathological alterations along central cholinergic pathways.
Rotational behaviour was initiated in naive rats by injecting muscimol into one substantia nigra pars reticulata, or in unilaterally 6-hydroxydopamine-treated rats with systemic or intracaudate apomorphine. Electrolytic or kainic acid lesions were made in one or both ventromedial nuclei of the thalamus and their effects on the components of circling studied. A unilateral ventromedial electrolesion imposed a weak ipsilateral posture and occasionally elicited weak ipsiversive circling acutely, but not chronically. Challenging these rats with a large subcutaneous dose of apomorphine invariably provoked ipsiversive circling, however old was the lesion. Bilateral electrolesions caused slight hypoactivity. Kainic acid treatments of one or both ventromedial thalami produced uncontrolled hypermotility initially, with subsequent loss of ventromedial neurones and recovery of normal motor behaviour. No form of ventromedial lesion affected the incidence of stereotypy. Acute (but not chronic) contralateral or ipsilateral ventromedial electrolesions, or both, slowed muscimol and apomorphine-induced circling (often in different ways) through complex changes in posture and/or locomotor drive. Animals lesioned during the course of a circling episode often showed the biggest changes in circling to begin with, only to recover minutes later. Rapidly circling rats were sometimes more readily inhibited than slowly circling rats. Toxin injury of the ventromedial nucleus appeared to suppress muscimol and not apomorphine circling. Any ventromedial lesion (electrical or chemical, acute or chronic), if positioned opposite a contraversive circling stimulus, intensified the associated posture. Ipsilateral lesions tended to abolish posture altogether or, like bilateral treatments, to suppress locomotion. Sham operations had none of these effects. Acute electrical lesions and drug-induced inhibition of one or both ventromedial thalami were more or less identical in their effects on rat circling behaviour, save that bilateral muscimol injection caused profound catalepsy while lesions did not. It is suggested that the ventromedial thalamus is more concerned with the registration of striatal dopamine-mediated behaviours in drug-stimulated than in spontaneously behaving rats, and that other output pathways may rapidly compensate for any impairment of function in the ventromedial nuclei.
An assortment of drugs was injected into one or both ventromedial nuclei of the thalamus, to see how these influenced stereotypy, locomotion and posture in spontaneously behaving and actively rotating rats. Unilateral intrathalamic muscimol promoted weak ipsiversive circling, while bilateral treatment gave catalepsy. Similar injections of 4-amino-hex-5-enoic acid, which inhibits gamma-aminobutyrate metabolism, raised gamma-aminobutyrate levels in the ventromedial nuclei more than three-fold yet had none of these behavioural effects. The indirectly acting gamma-aminobutyrate agonists flurazepam and cis-1,3-aminocyclohexane carboxylic acid had little effect on posture and locomotion and, like muscimol and 4-amino-hex-5-enoic acid, elicited only very weak stereotypies. Procaine behaved like the gamma-aminobutyrate antagonist bicuculline, provoking vigorous locomotor hyperactivity and teeth chattering if given uni- or bilaterally. Pretreatment of one ventromedial nucleus with muscimol or 4-amino-hex-5-enoic acid, and to a lesser extent flurazepam or cis- 1,3-aminocyclohexane carboxylic acid, gave rise to pronounced ipsilateral asymmetries when combined with a large systemic dose of apomorphine. Contraversive rotations were initiated by unilateral stereotaxic injection of muscimol into the substantia nigra pars reticulata, or with apomorphine from the supersensitive striatum in unilaterally 6-hydroxydopamine lesioned rats. Drug treatments in the ipsilateral ventromedial nucleus showed a similar rank order of potency at inhibiting these circling behaviours, seemingly by reducing apomorphine-induced posture and muscimol-induced hypermotility. The suppression of circling by muscimol in these tests was highlighted by introducing the compound into the ventromedial nucleus at the height of circling activity. Both types of circling stimulus lost the capacity to increase locomotion, but still caused head turning and stereotypy in rats made cataleptic with bilateral ventromedial muscimol. Treating one ventromedial thalamus with muscimol greatly intensified any pre-existing posture directed towards that side, and vice versa. These data suggest that the ventromedial nucleus is not involved with the expression of stereotyped behaviours, but can profoundly influence posture and locomotion, especially in the presence of some other motor stimulus. The recovery of circus movements in rats with impaired ventromedial nucleus function implies this nucleus is not essential for the execution of circling in these models.
Autoradiography following administration of 2-deoxy-[14C]glucose has shown that penicillin-induced epileptic foci in the cerebral cortex selectively coactivate associated neostriatal regions. The present material demonstrates that this coactivation may appear in patches in the rat neostriatum. Activity from a cortical area seems to spread first to islands of the associated neostriatal region and may either spread gradually to the surrounding 'matrix' or not involve the 'matrix' for tenths of minutes. The regionally restricted functional patchiness lends additional support to the notion that the neostriatum, like the neocortex, can be divided into regions which consist of modules.
In order to examine the ultrastructural features of the cholinergic neuron in the striatum (caudatoputamen) of the rat, cytochemistry for acetylcholinesterase was conducted 2-12 h after intramuscular injection of the irreversible acetylcholinesterase inhibitor diisopropylphosphorofluoridate. Light microscopic examination of Epon sections reacted from acetylcholinesterase showed that only large-sized cells in the striatum (25-35 microns in the long axis) were stained intensely. In the case of longer survival periods (10-12 h), some lightly stained cells (medium-sized) were seen dispersed amongst the large acetylcholinesterase-rich cells. Electron microscopic observations were made on ultrathin sections of selected large acetylcholinesterase-rich neurons that were first studied by light microscopy. The nucleus of these cells has an eccentric position and possesses several indentations of the nuclear envelope. The cytoplasm contains abundant organelles, many exhibiting features unique to this cell type. Many stacks of granular endoplasmic reticulum, arranged in a parallel manner and forming typical Nissl bodies, were observed in the periphery of the perikarya, and many distinct golgi complexes were seen in the perinuclear zone. At all post-diisopropylphosphorofluoridate survival times, heavy deposits of acetylcholinesterase reaction product were found within the perikarya of this cell type, for the most part within the cisternae of the granular endoplasmic reticulum. At the longer post-diisopropylphosphorofluoridate survival times, reaction product within the cytoplasm was very dense and appeared to have reached a maximum level. At these times reaction product also appeared in the secondary and tertiary dendritic branches of the large-sized neurons. Of the other cell types in the striatum, two types of medium-sized cells displayed a light deposit of reaction product in their perikarya, but this was observed only at longer recovery times (8-12 h). The majority of cells in the striatum lacked reaction particles. Throughout the early post-diisopropylphosphorofluoridate period, the recovery of enzyme activity in the neuropil was moderate compared to that seen within cell bodies. These findings indicate that the large-sized neuron is the only striatal structure that shows rapid regeneration of acetylcholinesterase activity during the early recovery phase after diisopropylphosphorofluoridate administration. Previous studies have indicated that this type of neuron represents the cholinergic interneuron of the striatum. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

The granule, CA1 and CA3 cells of the hippocampus have been much investigated during the last decade because there is superimposed on the standard features of synaptic transmission a very prolonged potentiation lasting for weeks that is called long-term potentiation. Evidently long-term potentiation is a promising candidate in the construction of a model for memory. The thesis here developed is that the influx of calcium ions across the membrane of the granule pyramidal cells plays the key role in the generation of long-term potentiation. The proposal makes it possible to account for the necessity of strong repetitive synaptic stimulation, preferably in bursts so as to optimize the conditions for the calcium influx. Studies on hippocampal slices with variations in the synaptic inputs in the granule cells give evidence of cooperativity, which is interpreted in relation to the threshold membrane depolarization for calcium influx. It is conjectured that the large increase of calcium in the granule and pyramidal cells results in the combination with the specific protein, calmodulin, to form a second messenger system, which produces metabolic changes leading to an increase in receptors of the postsynaptic membrane of the spine synapses, i.e. the postsynaptic densities, to the synaptic transmitter, glutamate. For example, Ca2+ could activate calcium-dependent kinases in the postsynaptic density resulting in the modification of protein components by phosphorylation. Other postsynaptic factors contributing to long-term potentiation are presumed to be protein synthesis with spine swelling and increased transport up the dendritic microtubules. There is discussion of the evidence for the alternative hypothesis that long-term potentiation is primarily presynaptic, being due to an increased output of transmitter. A unifying hypothesis is formulated, namely, that the primary event in long-term potentiation is in the increased sensitivity of the postsynaptic densities to the transmitter, and that, secondarily, this induces an increased output of transmitter from the presynaptic terminals by a trophic action across the synaptic cleft. It is shown how the proposed combination of calcium with calmodulin will account for the hypothesis of Marr that cognitive memory is due to conjunction potentiation. Furthermore, the Marr-Albus hypothesis for cerebellar learning is accounted for if the calcium-calmodulin messenger system causes the observed depression of the transmitter sensitivity of the spine synapses on Purkyn cells.
The effects of chemical thyroidectomy produced by propylthiouracil treatment or hyperthyroidism produced by daily injections of thyroxine on the content of serotonin, its metabolite 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid and of substance P in discrete brain nuclei of adult rats have been studied. Brain nuclei were removed by punches of frozen brain slices. The serotonin and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid contents were measured by high performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection while substance P was assayed by radioimmunoassay. The serotonin level was significantly increased in 11 nuclei of the hypothyroid and in 12 nuclei of the hyperthyroid rats. The 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid levels were higher in 16 nuclei of the hypothyroid and 7 nuclei of the hyperthyroid animals. The state of the thyroid gland in adult rats also affected the substance P system but less consistently than the serotonin pathway. Thus, the substance P content in the brain of propylthiouracil-treated animals increased significantly in 4 nuclei while it decreased in the septum lateralis and the striae terminalis. Following the chronic thyroxine injections, the substance P level was increased in the nucleus caudatus putamen and the tractus diagonalis and was decreased in the area ventralis tegmenti. We previously reported that neonatal thyroidectomy caused a general increase of the substance P and serotonin contents in many brain nuclei of young rats. It appears that the effects of chemical thyroidectomy on mature and immature rat brain are different for the substance P system, suggesting that thyroxine plays an important role in the maturation of substance P-containing neurons.
Exposure of rats to smoke from one cigarette caused local oedema due to a marked increased in vascular permeability from the epiglottis down to bronchioli, as indicated by extravasation of Evans blue in the airway mucosa. The cigarette smoke-induced extravasation of Evans blue was still present after removal of the tar and nicotine content of the smoke, suggesting that chemical irritants in the vapour phase were the main mediators of the vascular permeability response. Local or systemic pretreatment with capsaicin or [D-Arg1, D-Pro2, D-Trp7,9, Leu11] SP, a substance P antagonist, abolished or significantly reduced the airway oedema induced by cigarette smoke or vagal nerve stimulation. No reduction of the cigarette smoke or vagally induced tracheal oedema was seen upon pretreatment with mepyramine plus cimetidine, fentanyl, disodiumchromoglycate, methylprednisolone or terbutaline. The results thus indicate that the cigarette smoke or vagally induced tracheal oedema is most likely to be due to substance P release from local capsaicin-sensitive afferent neurons in the airway mucosa. Local administration of substance P antagonists may be considered as a pharmacological means of inhibiting local mucosal oedema in the airways caused by airway irritants such as cigarette smoke.

Behavioural, histopathological and neurochemical changes induced by systemic injection of kainic acid (10 mg/kg, s.c.) were investigated in rats. The most pronounced behavioural changes were strong immobility (&quot;catatonia&quot;), increased incidence of &quot;wet dog shakes&quot;, and long-lasting generalized tonic-clonic convulsions. The behavioural symptoms were fast in their onset and lasted for several hours. Two distinct phases of histopathological and neurochemical changes were observed. (1) Early partially reversible changes were seen up to 3 h after kainic acid injection. They consisted of shrinkage and pyknosis of neuronal perikarya together with swelling of dendrites and axon terminals. These changes were accompanied by generalized signs of edema throughout the whole brain. Neurochemically, there was a marked decrease in noradrenaline levels (up to 70%) and an increase in levels of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and homovanillic acid (up to 200%) in all analysed brain regions, suggesting a strongly increased firing rate of aminergic neurones during the period of generalized seizures. These histological and neurochemical changes were found in all the brain regions examined; they were greatly reduced or only sporadically seen after 1-3 days, when the animals had recovered from the seizures. (2) Late irreversible changes developed 24 h and later following kainic acid injection. They consisted of incomplete tissue necrosis with loss of nerve cells and oligodendrocytes, demyelination, astroglial scar formation, small perivenous hemorrhages and extensive vascular sprouting. The changes were restricted to the pyriform cortex, amygdala, hippocampus (most pronounced in the CA1 sector), gyrus olfactorius lateralis, bulbus olfactorius and tuberculum olfactorium. Neurochemically, a selective decrease was seen in choline acetyltransferase activity (40%) of the amygdala/pyriform cortex area, and of glutamate decarboxylase activity in the dorsal hippocampus (45%) and amygdala/pyriform cortex (55%). No such changes were found in the frontal cortex and the striatum/pallidum. Since at these later time periods the widespread early changes in monoamine metabolism were mostly normalized, loss of acetylcholine and gamma-aminobutyric acid neurons in the affected brain regions represented a selective neurochemical change typical for this stage of kainic acid action. The observed neurochemical and histopathological changes may be directly related to the excitotoxic and convulsive properties of kainic acid. However, brain edema resulting in herniation damage of the basal portions of the brain in addition to disturbances of microcirculation and +
Long-term potentiation of field and single neuronal responses recorded in various hippocampal fields is described on the basis of author's and literary data. Most of intrahippocampal and extrinsic connections in both in vivo and in vitro hippocampal preparations show this phenomenon after one or several conditioning trains of comparatively short duration (20 s or less) at various frequencies (from 10 to 400 Hz). Properties of hippocampal potentiation are described. The properties include long term persistence (hours and days) of the potentiated response, its low frequency depression, self-restoration after the depression, specificity of the potentiation for the tetanized pathway, necessity of activation of a sufficient number of neuronal elements ('cooperativity') to produce the potentiation, possible involvement of 'reinforcing' brain structures during conditioning tetanization. These properties are distinct from those of 'usual' short-term post-tetanic potentiation and lead to the suggestion that the neuronal mechanisms underlying long-term post-tetanic are similar to those underlying memory and behavioral-conditioned reflex. Neurophysiological mechanisms of long-term potentiation are discussed. The main mechanism consists in an increase in efficacy of excitatory synapses as shown by various methods including intracellular recording and quantal analysis. The latter favours presynaptic localization of changes of synaptic efficacy showing increase in the number of transmitter quanta released per presynaptic impulse. However, changes in the number of subsynaptic receptors or localized changes in dendritic postsynaptic membrane are not excluded. Biochemical studies indicate the increase in transmitter release and calcium-dependent phosphorylation of pyruvate dehydrogenase after tetanization. Instances of persistent response facilitations at other levels of the vertebrate central nervous system (especially at neocortical level) are considered and compared with hippocampal long-term potentiation. It is suggested that modifiable excitatory synapses necessary for learning have been identified in studies of long-term potentiation. These synapses are presumably modified as a result of close sequential activation of the following three structures: excitatory presynaptic fibers, the postsynaptic neuron and a 'reinforcing' brain system.
The complexity of problems encountered with head trauma clients is vast and inconsistent. This article presents a conceptual model that provides structure, yet flexibility, in addressing any aspect of these problems. Emphasis is placed on the importance of sensorimotor integration as it pertains to normal movement or response patterns. Justification of treatment techniques is addressed by suggesting the use of a classification system to categorize methods of treatment according to the specific or multiple sensory modality facilitated when applying those techniques. The clinician's understanding of applied neuroanatomy and physiology serves as the substrate for developing a flexible rationale for use of sensory input to facilitate desired response patterns. The need for a problem-oriented approach is emphasized. The approach stressed understanding of the general clinical problems and their sequential nature, evaluation, goal setting, and treatment planning.

The functional role of many central nervous structures has been inferred from the temporal relationship of a neuronal response with the different sensory and motor events in an experimental design such as when an animal performs a trained movement in response to a conditioned stimulus. However, this kind of data analysis leads to problems in estimating the occurrence and latency of any neuronal response. We examine these problems and propose a novel technique of data analysis to estimate the point of change in a sequence of neuronal discharge. Furthermore, data can be tested to see whether the neuronal response is related to the conditioned stimulus or the motor act. The method can also be used in the simple situation of determining the latency of a neuronal response after a stimulus.
The recent demonstration that Bodian's silver method specifically stains mammalian neurofilament subunits (NFs), but not other intermediate filament proteins (IFs), provides a specific marker for the identification of neurofilament polypeptides. We have applied the Bodian stain to SDS-PAGE separated polypeptides in nervous tissues from 9 species, representing neuronal evolution in 4 major phyla: chordata, mollusca, arthropoda and annelida. Every species tested except the arthropod showed intense silver staining of a set of polypeptides, each subsequently identified as NFs by immunomethods. These results demonstrate that the affinity of NFs for Bodian's silver stain is conserved during the evolution of nervous systems in a diverse spectrum of animals. Further, considerable variation in the molecular weight of NF subunits was found among the 6 vertebrates studied. This variation suggests that the molecular weight of NFs has not been conserved during evolution, a quality which appears to be unusual for a structural protein.
The anterograde axonal transport of wheat-germ agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase was used to reassess the spinal afferents to the ventrobasal complex in the rat. Somatotopically-organized labeled fibers and fiber terminals could be observed in the lateral portion of the complex. The distribution of the labeling corresponded to that previously described for afferents originating from the dorsal column nuclei. Terminal fibers were drawn and their morphology analyzed in comparison to that observed for dorsal column nuclei terminals. These results are discussed with reference to the involvement of the ventrobasal complex in the transmission of nociceptive information in the rat.
The advent of the microprocessor, and its incorporation in relatively low-cost microcomputer systems, offers a new range of possibilities for the recording of evoked and event-related potentials. A flexible system for recording evoked potentials, entitled DAN, has been developed using an Apple microcomputer. The main objective in developing DAN was to make it sufficiently flexible so that it could be used in both a research and a clinical environment for a wide range of responses, from the auditory brainstem to much slower cortical responses. A specific response can be selected from a standard range of evoked responses, or if a non-standard response is required, it is a simple matter to specify the response stimulus parameters, time duration and data sampling rate. This degree of versatility is achieved by designing a programmable audiometer, a special-purpose hardware interface for the Apple and software to generate the stimulus and control the data-acquisition interface. The main hardware components of the DAN system are listed (a) Apple microcomputer operating under U.C.S.D. PASCAL operating system; (b) dual 5 1/4 inch floppy disk drives and controller; (c) Video monitor; (d) DAN data-acquisition interface; (3) programmable audiometer; (f) Epson MX-80 printer/plotter. Disk drive 1 of the dual drive set is used to store the PASCAL operating system and the DAN programs. Drive 2 is used to store the data. The data-acquisition interface and audiometer interface plug into slots in the Apple. The software includes routines to generate the stimulus and store it in the audiometer prior to the data-acquisition phase.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)








A description is given of a system for rapidly measuring the durations of open times and closed times of single channel currents obtained by patch clamp techniques. The apparatus required, a BBC microcomputer and a Unilab interface, is inexpensive and easy to use. An outline of the software is given and measurements of the accuracy of timings presented. Examples of analyses of single channel currents obtained from spinal neurones in cultures are also presented.
The author visited ten paediatric neurology departments in the U.K. as part of a travelling scholarship. He was particularly interested in the way services were organized, and was able to make comparisons and note those features which seemed desirable. It seemed to him that: there should be a considerable overlap between paediatric neurology and handicapped childrens' services with the paediatric neurologist an active member of the local child development centre team; paediatric neurologists should be closely involved in the diagnosis and treatment of acute neurological disorders; minimum staffing for a regional paediatric neurology service for a total population of 2 million or more would be two consultant paediatric neurologists and appropriate supporting staff; different centres have opted for inpatient facilities either in a separate paediatric neurology ward, or in general paediatric wards: there are advantages and disadvantages for each option; school clinics and clinics in other hospital centres are valuable; neuroradiology, neurosurgery, neurophysiology and neuropathology should ideally be present in the hospital providing the paediatric neurology service; regular professional contact with other doctors in the neurosciences is important; junior posts in paediatric neurology would usually be filled by paediatricians in training but certain centres could be asked to appoint a career senior registrar from time to time depending on consultant paediatric neurologist requirements; and creation of lecturerships in paediatric neurology would help to encourage academic research in the subject.
Rats received either cis-flupenthixol (0.8-1.2 mg/kg per day) or trans-flupenthixol (0.9-1.2 mg/kg per day) continuously in drinking water for periods up to 18 months. cis-Flupenthixol, but not trans-flupenthixol, initially inhibited apomorphine-induced stereotyped behaviour but by 6 months and thereafter the stereotyped response was enhanced compared to age-matched control animals. Striatal and mesolimbic homovanillic acid and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid concentrations were elevated for up to 3 months after starting cis-, but not trans-flupenthixol intake, but thereafter levels generally fell below those for age-matched control animals. Dopamine concentrations were not altered by cis- or trans-flupenthixol administration. The number of striatal [3H]spiperone binding sites (Bmax) was decreased by 40% after 1 months' administration of cis-flupenthixol but this gradually reversed, such that by 18 months a 40% increase in Bmax was apparent. Administration of trans-flupenthixol decreased Bmax up to 3 months but thereafter values were not different from those found in age-matched control animals. The dissociation constant (KD) for [3H]spiperone binding in striatum was not altered by 6 months cis-flupenthixol intake, but then increased as drug administration continued. trans-Flupenthixol administration did not alter striatal KD values. Bmax for [3H]spiperone binding to mesolimbic preparations was not altered by up to 12 months cis-flupenthixol intake, but was decreased after 18 months drug administration. cis-Flupenthixol administration had no effect on mesolimbic KD values. Administration of trans-flupenthixol for up to 18 months did not alter mesolimbic Bmax or KD values for [3H]spiperone binding.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The effects of intravenous injections of lorazepam, scopolamine and propranolol upon hippocampal potentiation produced by commissural stimulation have been investigated in rats anaesthetized with urethane. Administration of 250 micrograms/kg or 500 micrograms/kg lorazepam significantly delayed the onset of secondary potentiation (frequency potentiation) of the population spikes recorded in subfields CA1 and CA3 of the dorsal hippocampus. Scopolamine also delayed the onset of frequency potentiation in CA1, but only at high dose (10 mg/kg). No other measured parameters of frequency potentiation, paired-pulse potentiation or post-tetanic potentiation were affected by any of the drugs. Lorazepam (greater than or equal to 250 micrograms/kg) and propranolol (3 mg/kg) reduced the severity of hippocampal after-discharge. Rhythmic entrainment of after-discharges was occasionally observed. The results are discussed in relation to the possible link between hippocampal potentiation and memory processes.
alpha-Latrotoxin of black widow spider venom was found to bind with high affinity (KA = 1.8 X 10(9)M-1) to specific sites present in discrete number (approximately 6300/cell, approximately 12/micron2) at the surface membrane of PC12 cells. This binding correlated with (and therefore, probably caused) the secretory response produced by the toxin. Binding was enhanced (approximately 2-fold) in the presence of mM concentrations of various divalent cations (Ca2+, Mn2+ and Co2+) while Ba2+ and Sr2+ had a smaller effect and Mg2+ was inactive. Hypertonicity, concanavalin A and trypsin pretreatment of the cells blocked the binding interaction. The alpha-latrotoxin-induced stimulation of 3H-dopamine release was massive and occurred very rapidly when cells were exposed to the toxin in a Ca2+-containing Krebs-Ringer medium, whereas it occurred at a much slower rate in a Ca2+-free, Mg2+-containing Ringer. Introduction of Ca2+ into the latter medium resulted in a shift of the release rate from slow to fast. In contrast, in divalent cation-free medium the response was abolished. The toxin-induced secretory response was unaffected by Na+ and Ca2+ channel blockers (tetrodotoxin and D600) as well as by calmodulin inhibitors (calmidazolium and trifluoperazine). The effects of Ca2+ and Mg2+ were found to be concentration-dependent, with half maximal responses occurring at approximately 0.3 and 1.5 mM for the two divalent cations, respectively. Other divalent cations could substitute for Ca2+ and Mg2+, the relative efficacy being Sr2+ greater than Ca2+ greater than Ba2+ much greater than Mn2+ greater than Mg2+ greater than Co2+. Moreover, the response occurring at suboptimal concentration of Ca2+ (0.4 mM) was potentiated by the concomitant addition of either Mg2+, Mn2+ or Co2+. The effect(s) of divalent cations in supporting the alpha-latrotoxin-induced release response seem(s) to occur primarily at step(s) beyond toxin binding because (a) the stimulatory effects of the various cations on release were not matched by parallel effects on binding, and (b) Ca2+ maintained its ability to stimulate fast release even when toxin binding had occurred in a Ca2+-free medium. Delays in the release responses were observed when cells were exposed to alpha LTx in Na+-free, glucosamine or methylamine-based media, or depolarized with high K+ (in the presence of D600) before toxin treatment. Moreover, in these two conditions the ability of Mg2+ to support the alpha LTx response was considerably decreased.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
We have investigated the process of catecholamine uptake in guinea-pig chromaffin cells. Isolated guinea-pig chromaffin cells accumulate [3H]norepinephrine and [3H]epinephrine by a saturable transport system. Catecholamine uptake is dependent upon temperature, energy, and extracellular Na+. The apparent KmS for norepinephrine and epinephrine transport are approximately 1 and 3.5 microM, respectively; the transport maximum (Vmax) for both compounds is about 100 pmol/min/mg protein. The uptake of norepinephrine into chromaffin cells is inhibited by imipramine (Ki = 50 nM) and by desmethylimipramine (IC50 = 20 nM). In both its substrate specificity and its sensitivity to pharmacological inhibition, the catecholamine uptake system in chromaffin cells is similar to the catecholamine transport system previously described in sympathetic neurons. Decreasing external Na+ from 130 to 19 mM increases the apparent Km for norepinephrine to 2.8 microM. Decreasing external norepinephrine increases the Na+ concentration required for half-maximal transport. Agents that depolarize chromaffin cells, such as acetylcholine and veratridine, significantly inhibit [3H]norepinephrine uptake. This decrease in uptake is due to an increase in the apparent Km for norepinephrine. The inhibition of [3H]norepinephrine uptake by depolarizing agents cannot be accounted for by the preferential release of newly-accumulated [3H]norepinephrine, or by the competitive inhibition of [3H]norepinephrine uptake by secreted catecholamines. The inhibition of catecholamine uptake by depolarizing agents suggests that the transport system may be regulated by the membrane potential. Norepinephrine and epinephrine that are spontaneously released from the adrenal medulla may be recaptured in vivo. The inhibition of transport by acetylcholine may prevent the re-uptake of catecholamine released during the physiological stimulation of secretion.
We have studied the roles of nicotinic and muscarinic receptors in the acetylcholine-evoked secretion of catecholamine from guinea-pig chromaffin cells. Isolated guinea-pig chromaffin cells secrete catecholamine in response to acetylcholine, nicotine, and a variety of muscarinic agonists. Optimal concentrations of acetylcholine (50-200 microM) induce the release of 10-25% of the catecholamine content of the cells in 10 min. Maximal secretion evoked by nicotine or by muscarinic agonists is 5-12% of the catecholamine content of the cells. Secretion evoked by optimal concentrations of nicotine (50 microM) and muscarine (200 microM) are additive, and together these agonists cause catecholamine release equivalent to that produced by optimal concentrations of acetylcholine. Atropine causes a biphasic inhibition of acetylcholine-induced catecholamine secretion; low concentrations of atropine (0.02-0.01 microM) inhibit by 35-45% the catecholamine secretion evoked by 100 microM acetylcholine. Increasing the atropine concentration from 0.1 to 5 microM causes no further decrease in acetylcholine-evoked release, but at concentrations above 5 microM, a second distinct phase of inhibition appears. At 100 microM, atropine reduces acetylcholine-evoked secretion by 85%. At 0.1 microM, atropine significantly inhibits secretion induced by muscarinic, but not nicotinic, agonists. Tubocurarine (50 microM) does not block muscarinic stimulation of release, but inhibits acetylcholine- and nicotine-evoked release by 70 and 80%, respectively. Our experiments indicate that nicotinic and muscarinic stimulation represent distinct mechanisms for the activation of catecholamine release from guinea-pig chromaffin cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Release of acetylcholine from isolated preganglionic axons of sympathetic nerve trunk (cervical preganglionic sympathetic branch) of the cat was studied. In response to depolarization (KCl, 48.4 mM) acetylcholine was released into the eserinized Krebs solution. This release was shown to be dependent on extracellular Ca2+. Electrical stimulation (1 Hz) enhanced the release of acetylcholine from the isolated axonal preparation. The release by stimulation proved to be tetrodotoxin-sensitive and Ca2+-dependent. Evidence has been obtained that the acetylcholine released from sympathetic nerve trunks originates from the axon and not from Schwann cells: 5 days after section of the nerve, there was no release in response to stimulation. The release of acetylcholine from the axon is unlike that from axon terminals in that the rate of release cannot be enhanced by the inhibition of Na, K-adenosine 5'-triphosphatase (ouabain 2 X 10(-5) M) and cannot be modulated by noradrenaline (10(-6) M) or by morphine. Furthermore, although isolated nerve trunks took up [3H]choline by a hemicholinium-sensitive process, no radioactivity could be released upon electrical stimulation. It is suggested that the release of acetylcholine is not confined to axon terminals, but that it can be non-synaptically released by depolarization from axons provided Ca2+ is present.
We have observed focal axonal enlargements in jimpy, a myelin deficient mutant mouse. Similar axonal swellings have also been found in other studies, in two other myelin deficient mutant mice and in a myelin deficient mutant rat. We suggest that this axonal abnormality represents a common secondary reaction to lack of myelin. Such a secondary reaction might also occur in other species including human, in response to deficient myelin or to loss of myelin due to disease.
Electrolytic lesions, performed in the lateral habenula of cats, specifically altered the sleep-wakefulness cycle and completely prevented the usual actions of intraventricularly administered vasotocin, which are to induce non-rapid eye movement sleep and to suppress rapid eye movement sleep. These alterations are (i) selectively related to lateral habenula, since similar lesions performed in thalamus 2 mm lateral to lateral habenula, were unable to prevent the actions of vasotocin or to reproduce the sleep alterations observed after habenular lesions, and (ii) reversible, since at eight days after habenular lesions there is a total return to normal of the sleep-wakefulness parameters, and vasotocin is able again to induce its hypnogenic effects. Opposite effects, characterized by an increase in non-rapid eye movement sleep and a decrease in rapid eye movement sleep, could be induced by a short (10 min) electrical stimulation of the lateral habenula, but not if the stimulating electrodes are placed 2 mm more laterally. Picrotoxin, a gamma-aminobutyrate antagonist, injected intraventricularly in normal cats was without any apparent effect on the sleep-wakefulness cycle if administered in a dose of 1 ng, but had sleep-increasing effects when administered in a dose of 100 ng. However, the smaller dose of picrotoxin (1 ng), when administered 15 min before vasotocin, completely blocked the hypnogenic effect of vasotocin. It is suggested that vasotocin acts within the brain by activating a descending gamma-aminobutyrate-containing habenulo-raphe pathway, and that this pathway plays an important role in the induction and/or organization of the sleep-wakefulness cycle.
In this study, maturational alterations in acetylcholinesterase-dependent staining of the thalamic ventrobasal complex of rat and mouse were examined. The study was undertaken to address the question of whether this nucleus exhibits transient acetylcholinesterase positivity during its development and whether the enzyme is likely to be synthesized by its immature intrinsic neurons. Also, the patterning due to acetylcholinesterase staining of cells and fibers, and the developmental changes in these patterns, have not been described in earlier work. In contrast to surrounding thalamic nuclei, the ventrobasal complex is acetylcholinesterase-positive at birth. In rat, acetylcholinesterase staining of the ventrobasal thalamus is still more intense than in adjacent nuclei at the end of the first week postnatally. Virtually all somata in the nucleus are filled with dense reaction product at this time. Ultrastructurally, reaction product is associated with the granular endoplasmic reticulum. At this stage, there is a marked difference in intensity of staining between the medial and lateral subdivisions of the nucleus, and patterned clustering of somata within each subdivision is readily appreciated in acetylcholinesterase-stained material. In the second postnatal week, intrinsic acetylcholinesterase activity is progressively lost. By the end of the third postnatal week, the nucleus is quite pale except for one area. In the posterior portion of the lateral subdivision, adjacent to the nucleus reticularis, interconnecting bundles of acetylcholinesterase-positive fibers enter the nucleus. They course medially in the lateral subdivision and break up into a plexus of fine fibers. The development of acetylcholinesterase-dependent staining patterns in the mouse is quite similar, except that histochemically detectable levels of enzyme are substantially lower in the neonatal period. It is concluded that the ventrobasal complex can be distinguished from other thalamic nuclei in regard to earlier onset and/or transience of acetylcholinesterase staining. Ultrastructural observations suggest that virtually all immature ventrobasal neurons are synthesizing acetylcholinesterase. It is suggested that the transient staining for enzyme is due primarily to alteration in synthesis and/or turnover in neurons of the ventrobasal complex. In addition, the acetylcholinesterase staining reveals a patterning of fibers and cells that also undergoes developmental alteration. Evidence is discussed suggesting that axons in the barrels of somatosensory cortex (SmI) are derived from these transiently acetylcholinesterase-positive somata. Consequently, the loss of acetylcholinesterase fiber staining in the barrels, during the third postnatal week (noted previously), may be related to a decrease in synthesis of enzyme in the neuronal somata of the ventrobasal complex.
A model describing slow-wave membrane potential oscillations observed in molluscan neurons has been developed. It takes into account non-inactivating calcium and Ca-dependent potassium currents found experimentally in these neurons. This model successfully describes the form of the experimental potential wave as well as the dependence of the oscillatory behaviour of molluscan neurons on the extracellular concentration of Ca2+ and K+ ions. By changing different parameters of the model I was able to obtain three patterns of the electrical activity of molluscan neurons. These are as follows: silent neurons with the resting potential ranging from -49 to -53 mV; neurons which demonstrate a slow-wave oscillatory activity with an interval between 12 and 17 s; and neurons with repetitive firing activity. The possible interaction between these three patterns of the electrical activity is considered and its neurophysiological significance is discussed. It was shown, in the framework of the model developed, that a neuron can switch from one pattern to another by changing any parameter of the model. It is most likely that such alteration in the electrical neuronal activity is connected with a change in intracellular adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate content affecting both the magnitude of the calcium conductance and the intracellular level of Ca2+ ions.
Carotid bodies, together with Hering's nerves, were excised from anesthetized rabbits 24, 48 or 72 h after single reserpine injections (5 mg kg-1, i.v. or i.p.) and were superfused in vitro. Some carotid bodies were processed for formaldehyde-induced fluorescence microscopy to assess catecholamine depletion. Twenty-four hours after reserpine treatment, most of the type I cell islets had lost their fluorescence and the number of spontaneously active chemoafferent units was dramatically reduced. Forty-eight hours after reserpine injection, both the fluorescence of type I cells had partially recovered and the number of chemoreceptor units was almost normal. A significant reduction of both the normoxic and hypoxic frequencies of discharge was demonstrated in carotid bodies examined 24 or 48 h after reserpine pretreatment. Superfusions with dopamine (1, 10, 100 microM) transiently restored the response to hypoxia. It is proposed that catecholamines contained in type I cells play a prominent role in the genesis of chemoafferent activity and in the chemoreceptor response to hypoxia.
The roles of Cl-dependent synaptic inhibition in the generation of fictive breathing were tested in isolated brains of adult lampreys, Ichthyomyzon unicuspis. Only a few inhibitory synaptic potentials were recorded in respiratory motoneurons between excitatory bursts. This was also true after Cl- injections inverted them to depolarizing potentials. A weak and variable phase of Cl-sensitive synaptic inhibition occurred at the ends of excitatory bursts. Respiratory motoneurons had a pronounced post-spike hyperpolarization, which was distinct from synaptic inhibition and appeared to be a more important mechanism for termination of firing. The production of the basic rhythm for respiration was tested in strychnine, picrotoxin, bicuculline and Cl-free fluid. Low concentrations of the blocking drugs prevented the inhibitory effects of bath-applied glycine and gamma-aminobutyric acid, but essentially normal respiratory bursts still occurred. Equilibration of isolated brains in high concentrations of strychnine and picrotoxin did not prevent periodic activities, but burst durations were increased and inter-burst intervals were longer and less regular than normal. Similar bursts could also occur transiently in Cl-free fluid. Recordings from the IX and X motor nuclei indicated that respiratory neurons produced the periodic bursts in the presence of strychnine and picrotoxin. Hemisections of the brain behind the V motor nuclei eliminated the bursts ipsilaterally. This indicated that descending excitation was necessary during pattern generation both in normal fluid and in the presence of antagonists of synaptic inhibition. Conventional synaptic inhibition does not appear to be essential for respiratory pattern generation in the adult lamprey but may contribute to its modulation. The hypothetical neural oscillator may consist of excitatory bursting interneurons.
The excitability of single cutaneous primary afferent fibres (sural nerve) was tested by focal stimulation in the dorsal horn of the cat spinal cord, and recording the antidromically conducted action potential in the peripheral nerve. To induce primary afferent depolarization, which is an expression of presynaptic inhibition, the superficial peroneal nerve was stimulated. The primary afferent depolarization was measured as the concomitant excitability change in the antidromically excited sural fibre. This primary afferent depolarization was reduced by 32% during microelectrophoretic release of bicuculline methochloride near the microstimulation electrode in the dorsal horn. Microelectrophoresis of gamma-aminobutyrate increased excitability in sural nerve fibres which correlated with the primary afferent depolarization induced by stimulation of the superficial peroneal nerve. The results suggest a possible role for gamma-aminobutyrate in presynaptic inhibition of cutaneous afferent fibres in the cat.
The accumulation and release of [3H]dopamine by the median eminence in vitro was studied after treatments with different pharmacological agents, to determine whether such a procedure would be useful for measuring neuronal activity in the tuberoinfundibular dopaminergic system. The accumulation of [3H]dopamine was temperature, time, and sodium dependent, and reduced by unlabelled dopamine and by a potent dopamine uptake blocker, nomifensine. The outflow of tritium was studied after blocking the oxidative deamination of dopamine by nialamide. The outflow of tritium was elicited consistently by biphasic square wave electrical pulses and by high molarity potassium ions. The response to electrical stimulation was dependent largely on calcium and partially on sodium. The response to high molarity potassium ions was reduced in the absence of calcium ions. The response to electrical stimulation was increased by nomifensine and by a dopaminergic antagonist, haloperidol, and was reduced by dopamine and by a dopaminergic agonist, piribedil. The inhibitory action of dopamine was antagonized by haloperidol. These results indicate the existence of uptake and release mechanisms in the tuberoinfundibular dopamine neurons, and suggest that dopamine may inhibit its own release via dopaminergic receptors. This in vitro method may be useful for measuring dopamine uptake and release by tuberoinfundibular dopaminergic neurons.
In dissociated hypothalamic cell cultures of 16-day mouse embryos, growing in chemically defined medium, the catecholaminergic neurons were identified by autoradiography after labelling with [3H]dopamine and by immunocytochemistry with an anti-tyrosine hydroxylase antibody. Using selective inhibitors of amine transport and radioenzymatic determination of amine levels in these cultures, we show that these neurons were mostly dopaminergic. The number of dopaminergic neurons identified by the two techniques increased between days 5 and 8 and decreased after 15 days in vitro. The same number of neurons were identified by autoradiography and by immunocytochemistry and consisted of fusiform and multipolar neurons. The proportion of both types remained steady until 15 days in vitro. Under these conditions, the addition of triiodothyronine (10(-9) M) at the initiation of the culture increased the size but not the number of dopaminergic neurons after 8 days in vitro. Furthermore, triiodothyronine significantly increased the dopaminergic neurite length and arborization. This morphological effect of triiodothyronine was associated with an increase of 35% in [3H]dopamine uptake. Our study shows that hypothalamic dopaminergic neurons are responsive to triiodothyronine which acts as a maintenance or trophic factor having an effect on neurite extension and arborization.
The presence of degenerating nigral and cerebellar synaptic terminals in the intermediate and deep layers of the cat superior colliculus was demonstrated by electron microscopy following lesions of the substantia nigra or brachium conjunctivum. The superior colliculus was taken for analysis 4-5 days after operation. Nigral terminals underwent a dark type of degeneration following kainic acid lesion of the pars reticulata of the substantia nigra. The majority of nigral degenerating terminals and axons were found in the stratum griseum intermediale with a few in the stratum griseum profundum. Two kinds of cerebellar terminals were distinguished by general appearances such as size, type of synaptic contact and type of synaptic vesicle and by the pattern of degenerative changes following electrical lesion of the brachium conjunctivum. Large elongated synaptic terminals 4-7 microns in diameter, were found mainly in the stratum griseum profundum. They often had double termination with conventional dendrites and with vesicles containing dendrites. This kind of terminal had a filamentous type of degeneration. A second type of degenerating cerebellar terminal, characterized by an electron-lucent type of degeneration, was predominantly located in the stratum griseum intermediale. These terminals were circular, about 4 microns in diameter, and did not have synaptic contact with vesicle-containing profiles. The finding of the two types of degenerating terminal after lesion of the brachium conjunctivum can be considered as evidence of the coexistence of at least two kinds of cerebellar terminals in the superior colliculus. The presence of nigral and cerebellar terminals in the intermediate and deep layers of the superior colliculus implicates the involvement of the substantia nigra and cerebellum in control of collicular visuomotor function.
The release of [3H] gamma-aminobutyrate (GABA) neosynthesized from [3H]glutamine was estimated in one substantia nigra and in the ipsilateral thalamus of halothane-anesthetized cats by perfusing a [3H]glutamine-enriched physiological medium through a push-pull cannula implanted in the two structures under investigation. After two hours of superfusion, muscimol (10(-6)M) was delivered through the nigral push-pull cannula for 50-60 min and local- and distal-evoked changes of [3H]GABA release were analyzed. In some experiments, changes of global neuronal activity induced by muscimol application were recorded in different thalamic nuclei, using a bipolar electrode. In a few of the above experiments, biochemical and electrophysiological determinations were simultaneously performed in the substantia nigra and the thalamus. The nigral application of muscimol (10(-6)M) induced locally an activation of the substantia nigra reticulata cells, as well as an increase in release of [3H]GABA. Distally, in the thalamus, two types of biochemical and electrophysiological responses were observed according to the localization of the tip of the push-pull cannula or the electrode. (1) An increased release of [3H]GABA and a depression of the global multi-unit cellular activity were obtained in the ventralis medialis-ventralis lateralis, the centralis lateralis and the paracentralis nuclei. These effects could reflect an activation of the GABAergic nigrothalamic neurons projecting to these different thalamic nuclei. (2) In contrast, in the medialis dorsalis paralamellar zone adjacent to the intralaminar nuclei of the thalamus, a decrease of [3H]GABA release and an activation of the multi-unit activity were obtained. These latter results may suggest either a polysynaptic response or the non-GABAergic nature of the nigrothalamic neurons afferent to the medialis dorsalis paralamellar zone.
The efferent connections of the brain stem nucleus tegmenti pedunculopontinus were studied in the rat using the techniques of anterograde and retrograde transport of the enzyme horseradish peroxidase, laying particular emphasis on that part of pedunculopontinus which receives direct descending projections from the basal ganglia and related nuclei. In a preliminary series of experiments horseradish peroxidase was injected into either the entopeduncular nucleus or the subthalamic nucleus and, following anterograde transport of enzyme, terminal labelling was identified in nucleus tegmenti pedunculopontinus, surrounding the brachium conjunctivum in the caudal mesencephalon. In a subsequent series of experiments, horseradish peroxidase was injected into that region of nucleus tegmenti pedunculopontinus which receives entopeduncular and subthalamic efferents and its efferent projections were studied by anterograde transport of the enzyme. The results indicate that nucleus tegmenti pedunculopontinus gives rise to widely distributed efferent projections which terminate rostrally in mesencephalic, diencephalic and telencephalic structures and caudally in the pontine tegmentum. In the mesencephalon, terminal labelling was found in the pars compacta of the ipsilateral substantia nigra and sometimes in the adjoining ventral tegmental area. Labelling was also found in the ipsilateral half of the periaqueductal grey. In the diencephalon terminal labelling occurred bilaterally in the subthalamic nucleus and ipsilaterally in the intralaminar nuclei of the thalamus. Further rostrally, terminal labelling was particularly evident in the ipsilateral pallidal complex, especially in the caudal two-thirds of the entopeduncular nucleus and the ventral half of the caudal third of the globus pallidus. Caudal to pedunculopontine injection sites dense labelling was observed in the reticular formation of the pontine tegmentum. In a final series of experiments, confirmation of apparent pedunculopontine efferent projections was sought using the retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase. Enzyme was injected into sites possibly receiving pedunculopontine efferents and the peribrachial area of the brain stem was examined for retrograde cell labelling. In this way, pedunculopontine projections were confirmed to the globus pallidus, entopeduncular nucleus, subthalamic nucleus, substantia nigra, parafascicular nucleus and pontine reticular formation. Injections into the globus pallidus or subthalamic nucleus gave rise to retrograde cell labelling bilaterally in pedunculopontinus. In addition, retrograde transport studies alone demonstrated projections from pedunculopontinus to the cerebral cortex and to the spinal cord. It is concluded that the nucleus tegmenti pedunculopontinus has reciprocal relationships with parts of the basal ganglia and some functionally related nuclei (in particular, the pallidal complex, subthalamic nucleus and substantia nigra).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
In an earlier study (Neuroscience 8, 33-55, 1983), we found that the cortex representing the skin of the median nerve within parietal somatosensory fields 3b and 1 was completely occupied by 'new' inputs from the ulnar and radial nerves, 2-9 months after the median nerve was cut and tied in adult squirrel and owl monkeys. In this report, we describe the results of studies directed toward determining the time course and likely mechanisms underlying this remarkable plasticity. Highly detailed maps of the hand surface representation were derived in monkeys before, immediately after, and at subsequent short and intermediate time stages after median nerve section. In one monkey, maps were derived before nerve section, immediately after nerve section, and 11, 22 and 144 days later. Thus, direct comparisons in cortical map structure could be made over time in this individual monkey. In other experiments, single maps were derived at given post-section intervals. These studies revealed that: (1) large cortical sectors were 'silenced' by median nerve transection. (2) Significant inputs restricted to the dorsum of the radial hand and the dorsum of digits 1, 2 and 3 were immediately 'unmasked' by median nerve transection. (3) These immediately 'unmasked' regions were topographically crude, and represented only fragments of this dorsal skin. They were transformed, over time, into very large, highly topographic and complete representations of dorsal skin surfaces. (4) Representations of bordering glabrous skin surfaces progressively expanded to occupy larger and larger portions of the former median nerve cortical representational zone. (5) These 'expanded' representations of ulnar nerve-innervated skin surfaces sometimes moved, in entirety, into the former median nerve representational zone. (6) Almost all of the former median nerve zone was driven by new inputs in a map derived 22 days after nerve section. At shorter times (3, 6 and 11 days), 'reoccupation' was still incomplete. (7) Very significant changes in map dimensions within and outside of the former median skin cortical field were seen after the 'reoccupation' of the deprived cortex by 'new' inputs was initially completed. (8) Progressive changes were recorded within the original ulnar and radial nerve cortical representational zones, as skin surfaces originally overtly represented wholly within these regions expanded into the former median nerve zone. (9) Throughout the studied period, the cortical representational loci of many skin sites appeared to change continually and often markedly. (10) The locations of map discontinuities also shifted significantly over time. (11) Concomitant with changes in representational magnification over time, inverse changes in receptive field sizes were recorded.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The net transport of glucose from blood to the cerebrospinal fluid compartment of cats was measured by ventriculocisternal perfusion to determine over a large range of serum glucose concentrations the influence of serum glucose levels and their changes on the net transport rate. Changes in serum glucose levels were followed within minutes by corresponding changes in cerebroventricular effluent fluid glucose concentration. At mean values of serum glucose concentration of 6.2 mM and cerebrospinal fluid formation rate of 24.3 microliter/min, the net glucose influx rate was 1.6 mmol/min. The effluent fluid-to-serum glucose concentration ratio was 0.25 and decreased when serum glucose was greater than 11.1 mM. The rate of glucose transport from blood to effluent fluid during ventricular perfusion was saturable, and approached a maximum of 3.5 mumol/min at serum glucose levels above 22 mM. From the cerebrospinal fluid formation and net glucose influx rates the calculated glucose concentration of nascent cerebrospinal fluid was 6.5 mM and higher than the corresponding serum glucose of 5.6 mM. It is concluded that during perfusion over a wide range of serum glucose concentrations, a saturable mediated glucose transport mechanism can be demonstrated. Changes in serum glucose are rapidly reflected in corresponding effluent fluid glucose levels. From effluent fluid-to-serum glucose concentration ratios and calculations of the glucose in newly formed cerebrospinal fluid, the technique, however, overestimates the glucose influx rates at normal serum glucose levels.
Neurosecretory PC12 cells were exposed in a variety of experimental conditions to nanomolar concentrations of alpha-latrotoxin purified from the venom of the black widow spider. When applied in a modified Ringer medium containing millimolar Ca2+ the toxin rapidly elicited a marked stimulation of exocytosis, as indicated by the appearance of typical images of granule-plasmalemma interaction and by the decreased density (number/unit area) of secretion granules in the cytoplasm. Without Ca2+ in the medium this early toxin effect was delayed and evolved less rapidly, but was still clearly appreciable. These morphological results appear in good quantitative agreement with the biochemical data on dopamine release reported in the preceding article. The stimulation of exocytosis was followed after a short delay by a stimulation of endocytosis, as revealed by an increased accumulation of the extracellular tracer, [14C]sucrose, within the toxin-treated cells. At later times after the application of alpha-latrotoxin other effects appeared, but only in the presence of Ca2+: these included changes in cell shape; focal alterations of the mitochondrial matrix (clear discrete areas and dense precipitates) and frank signs of cytotoxicity (rupture of the plasmalemma, clearing of the cytoplasmatic matrix). The toxin-induced cell death was studied quantitatively by using trypan blue exclusion as well as the 51Cr test, and was found to be dependent on alpha-latrotoxin concentration, temperature of incubation and Ca2+ concentration in the medium. Ionic substitutions concerning anions as well as cations other than Ca2+ had minor or no consequences. Thus, the early effect of alpha-latrotoxin in PC12 cells (stimulation of exocytosis, at least partially Ca2+-independent) can be dissociated from the late 'toxic' effect (strictly Ca2+-dependent).
Enkephalins have been detected in the cranial motor nuclei and may play a role in the motor system. The afferent source of leucine-enkephalin-like immunoreactive fibers in the facial nucleus was investigated using experimental immunohistochemistry. These leucine-enkephalin-containing fibers were markedly reduced on the operated side after the destruction of the ventrolateral part of the caudal medullary reticular formation, where a number of leucine-enkephalin-positive cell bodies were observed. This fact strongly suggests that these leucine-enkephalin-positive cells project ipsilaterally to the facial nucleus and so could have some effects on facial motoneurons.
A low resistance suction microelectrode was used to record intracellularly from enzymatically dissociated horizontal cells obtained from catfish retina (Ictalurus punctatus). This microelectrode was connected to a voltage clamp circuit and the transmembrane currents were recorded during depolarizing and hyperpolarizing clamp pulses. Two fast transient inward currents were recorded, one sensitive to tetrodotoxin and one insensitive to this drug. A slower and persistent tetrodotoxin insensitive inward current was also recorded. The results indicate that separate membrane conductances exist for both sodium and calcium ions. We suggest that the action potential recorded from isolated horizontal cells is generated by both sodium and calcium currents.
Hypoxic hyperventilation in cats is a reflex normally initiated by afferent impulses originating in the carotid body and conducted to the brain stem by the carotid sinus nerves. The reflex response is abolished acutely after section of carotid sinus nerves and excision of the carotid bodies; but, chronically, there is a chemoreflex restoration which is mediated by the aortic body via the aortic depressor nerves. The restoration is associated temporally with changes in efficacy of ventilatory reflexes elicited by electrically stimulating carotid sinus and aortic depressor nerves, and these changes are postulated to reflect a central reorganization of the reflex pathways. In the present study, histological and ultrastructural techniques were used to investigate the neuroanatomical basis of the reorganization. The brain stem of the cat was examined using the Fink-Heimer silver stain to determine if degenerating axons were present following section of the carotid sinus nerve peripheral to its sensory ganglion. Degeneration was found 4-15 days postoperatively and the distribution of the axons corresponded with that reported for central projections of carotid sinus nerves labeled by transganglionic transport of horseradish peroxidase. The fine structure of nerve terminals in nucleus tractus solitarius was then examined with electron microscopy after cutting the vagus and glossopharyngeal nerves unilaterally peripheral to the sensory ganglia. Structural changes consistent with nerve terminal degeneration were observed 4-91 days postoperatively, and presumptive axonal sprouts were seen at 56-91 days.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In order to gain some impressions about the degree to which individual neurons of the pars reticulata of the substantia nigra send long collateral branches to more than one of its three major targets (thalamus, superior colliculus, reticular formation), two, or all three targets were injected with fluorescent dyes (Evan's blue, granular blue, nuclear yellow, propidium iodide) in six squirrel monkeys and four cats. The best results were obtained in the monkey brain with injections of Evan's blue in the thalamus, granular blue in the colliculus and nuclear yellow in the reticular formation. Whereas nigrothalamic and nigroreticular neurons are numerous and widely scattered throughout all parts of the pars reticulata, cells projecting only to the superior colliculus are fewer in number and restricted to a rostral-lateral zone. These results are consistent with earlier data obtained with the horseradish peroxidase method. Although double-labeled cells with projections to both the thalamus and reticular formation occur throughout the pars reticulata, such cells are somewhat more abundant at caudal levels of the nucleus. Cells containing dyes from both the superior colliculus and reticular formation are less common and restricted to the lateral part of the pars reticulata. A small number of cells near the rostral pole of the pars reticulata contain dye from both the tectal and thalamic injection. Typically, less than two dozen cells in any case can be confidently identified as containing all three dyes and these cells are located in the rostrolateral half of the pars reticulata. Fewer than 20% of the labeled nigral cells contain more than one dye. In the cat, thalamic injection of granular blue and tectal injection of nuclear yellow indicate that most nigrotectal cells are located in the middle of the mediolateral expanse of the pars reticulata in its rostral half. Nigrothalamic cells flank the nigrotectal group medially, laterally and caudally. Where these groups border one another, several cells contain both dyes indicating that they project to both the thalamus and colliculus. In both the cats and monkeys, a less extensive cell-labeling occurs in the contralateral nigra with a pattern similar to that in the ipsilateral substantia nigra. The results indicate that several neurons of the substantia nigra's pars reticulata send long collateral branches to two or even all three of the major targets. Many reticulata cells, however, appear to project either to the thalamus, or to the superior colliculus or to the reticular formation.
In order to identify the specific targets of the septohippocampal projection in the rat, horseradish peroxidase localization at the electron microscopic level was used. Following injections of free horseradish peroxidase into the medial septum, sections of the dorsal hippocampal formation were reacted with diaminobenzidine and processed for electron microscopy by routine methods. Sections were viewed unstained. Horseradish peroxidase labeling in the dentate gyrus was predominantly in the supra- and infragranular layers. All postsynaptic elements were neuronal. They included granule cell somata and somata and dendrites of hilar cells; these may include pyramidal basket cells. No synaptic contacts with vascular or glial elements were found. These results provide a basis for comparing the specific targets of the septohippocampal projection with those of the sympathohippocampal pathway, which innervates the dentate following lesions of the septohippocampal projection.
In 13 cats injections of horseradish peroxidase-wheat germ agglutinin in various parts of the cerebral cortex were combined with injections in the cerebellar crus II in the same animal in order to study the cortical regions that may influence the crus II via the pontine nuclei. In 2 cats lesions in the cerebral cortex were combined with horseradish peroxidase injections in the crus II. In the pons terminal regions (anterogradely labelled from the cerebral cortex or containing terminal degeneration) and cell groups retrogradely labelled from crus II were carefully plotted. The pontocerebellar projection to crus II is mainly crossed, on the average 26% of the labelled cells were found in the ipsilateral pons. Some overlap between sites of ending of cortical fibres and sites of origin of fibres to crus II was present in all cases, but the degree of overlap varied considerably, depending on which cortical region was injected. Typically, partial overlap between terminal patches and groups of labelled cells occurred at multiple sites in the pontine nuclei. A major input to crus II appears to come from the parietal region. Experiments with bilateral cortical injections showed that the pontine projection from the parietal region is topographically organized in a precise mosaic pattern of adjacent but apparently non-overlapping patches of termination. Area 6 also has strong connections with crus II, while only very few of the corticopontine fibres from the sensorimotor region overlap with cell groups labelled from crus II. The second somatosensory area and the visual cortex both seem able to influence a small but significant proportion of cells projecting to crus II. In contrast to other cortical regions, the auditory cortex appears to send fibres mainly to cell groups projecting to the ipsilateral crus II. It is concluded that the input to crus II originates in wide areas of the cerebral cortex. Small subgroups of neurons projecting to crus II can be differentiated on the basis of their cortical afferents. It appears likely that each subgroup receives fibres mainly or in some instances only from one cortical site. The corticopontocerebellar projection to crus II probably exhibits a high degree of spatial order providing a specific pattern of convergence and divergence in the cerebellar cortex, in agreement with recent physiological evidence from micromapping studies.
Although muscle spindles are known to be present in regenerated muscles, it has not previously been reported whether they have any electrophysiological activity. In the present study, rat extensor digitorum longus muscles were traumatized so as to cause all muscle fibers to degenerate; the muscle nerves were either left intact to promote subsequent reinnervation or severed to impede reinnervation. After 2-4 months of regeneration, the muscles were subjected to stretch stimuli and sensory activity was recorded electrophysiologically. Many of the muscles contained stretch-sensitive units that behaved like muscle spindles, although the responses were often highly adaptive and somewhat erratic. In general, the responses from muscles with the nerve left intact were more normal than those from muscles in which the nerve had been severed. Silver staining of the same muscles showed that morphologically recognizable muscle spindles were present, but all were abnormal to varying degrees. These results demonstrate that regenerated muscles can regain some degree of sensory activity in addition to motor functions. The prospect of restored sensory activity may be critical in evaluating the efficacy of graft or transplant procedures for human muscles.
We have examined the possible origin of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) and substance P-containing axons and the synapses formed by these axons in the celiac ganglion of the cat, by means of ultrastructural immunohistochemistry combined with various surgical lesions. Axons containing VIP as well as those immunopositive for substance P, formed axo-dendritic and axosomatic synapses with principal ganglion cells. After transection of the superior mesenteric nerve numerous degenerated axonal profiles could be found in the celiac ganglion. Some of these contained VIP immunoreactivity. By contrast in alternate sections stained with substance P antibody only intact axons were labelled. Bilateral vagotomy resulted in the appearance of degenerating axonal profiles in the celiac ganglion, some of which could be stained with substance P antiserum but not with VIP antiserum. Following removal of dorsal root ganglia (Th6-Th12) from both sides, a large number of degenerated axons were found, many of which were immunopositive for substance P but not for VIP. We conclude that the peripheral input to the celiac ganglion contains VIP fibers which form synapses with principal ganglion cells. Substance P-containing fibers reach the celiac ganglion via the vagal nerve as well as from the dorsal root ganglia, and they form synapses with the principal ganglion cells. It is proposed that the VIP and the substance P-containing axons are involved in two different peripheral reflex loops.
In rats treated neonatally with capsaicin there is, in later life, a tendency tendency towards urine retention. Since capsaicin is known to cause irreversible loss of certain primary sensory neurons, notably those containing substance P, we have studied the sensory innervation of the bladder in capsaicin-treated and control rats using retrograde tracing methods and immunohistochemistry; in addition, the motor function of the bladder was assessed in in vitro experiments, using electrical field stimulation. Five days after injection of the fluorescent tracer True Blue into the wall of the bladder, numerous labelled cells were identified in dorsal root ganglia T13, L1, L2, L6, and S1 and smaller numbers of cells were found in T12 and L3. In capsaicin-treated rats the numbers of labelled cells were reduced by over 50% in L1, L6 and S1. In control rats, 10-16% of True Blue labelled cells also contained substance P as demonstrated by indirect immunofluorescence, but in capsaicin-treated rats substance P cells were virtually absent. In in vitro studies, contractions of the detrusor muscle to electrical field stimulation, both before and after atropine, were similar in control and capsaicin-treated rats. We suggest that capsaicin causes urine retention in rats due to an impairment of sensory transmission from the bladder (that could involve substance P) and a consequent failure in the normal micturition reflexes.
The cortico-olivary projection has been investigated in the cat with the methods of retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase and wheat-germ agglutinin conjugated with horseradish peroxidase as well as autoradiographic techniques using tritium-labelled amino acids. The projection arises from cells in cortical layer V and terminates mainly ipsilaterally and less densely contralaterally. The strongest termination site is in the caudal medial accessory olive adjacent to subnucleus beta. Projections to that area originate in the medial portions of areas 4 and 6 rostral to the cruciate sulcus. Regions of the motor cortex related to axial back and neck, proximal forelimb and face musculature plus the frontal eye field are represented in largely overlapping areas of the caudal medial accessory olive. A second zone of termination is present in the rostral olive at the junction of the ventral lamella of the principal olive and the medial border of the dorsal accessory olive. Projections to that area arise from a central portion of area 4 at the border between the anterior sigmoid gyrus and the presylvian gyrus. This area contains portions of the representation of the muscle groups controlling the neck and proximal forelimb (shoulder and elbow) only. The frontal eye field, which in the cat influences both extraocular and neck musculature, is also an important direct source of input to this portion of the inferior olive. Contralateral terminations are distributed symmetrically. Combining this information with the olivocerebellar distribution, cerebellar cortical areas corresponding to this direct cortical input are defined. Taking into account that the cortico-olivary fibers appear to arise only from those portions of the motor cortex involved in the control of axial and proximal forelimb muscles, it is suggested that the cortico-olivo-cerebellar projections play a preponderant role in the cerebellar control of posture.

Cultured bovine adrenal medullary chromaffin cells were stimulated with the secretogogues Ba2+ or carbamyl choline plus Ca2+ in the presence of a monospecific rabbit IgG fraction directed against bovine dopamine beta-hydroxylase. The anti-dopamine beta-hydroxylase was labeled either with fluorescent protein A or with a fluorescent second antibody to rabbit IgG. Stimulation produced a patchy cell surface distribution of fluorescence. There was no noticeable internalization of the fluorescence for up to 2 h. In similar experiments using fluorescent monovalent fragments (Fab) of the same monospecificidopamine-beta-hydroxylase IgG, a more uniform distribution of the fluorescence was observed. A few min after a 5 min period of stimulation with Ba2+, the fluorescence appeared to be on or near the cell surface; however, after 20 min or more it was distributed throughout the cytoplasm except that the cell nuclei were not labeled. Thus, dopamine beta-hydroxylase which appeared on the cell surface as a consequence of exocytosis was internalized in the presence of monovalent antibody fragments, but not in the presence of the divalent (polyclonal) antibody, presumably because endocytosis of dopamine beta-hydroxylase was inhibited by crosslinking of the dopamine beta-hydroxylase molecules. The internalized anti-dopamine beta-hydroxylase Fab fragments were found to reappear on the cell surface during a second secretory response. It is concluded that the interior of the chromaffin granule membrane, for which dopamine beta-hydroxylase is a marker, becomes exposed on the surface of the cell during secretion and that the membrane is then retrieved back into the cell where it can be re-used in a further secretory cycle.
The aim of the present study was (1) to evaluate the functional contribution of nicotinic and muscarinic receptors of the rat adrenal medullary cells in the secretion of catecholamines evoked by exogenous and endogenous acetylcholine, (2) to know whether the ratio of epinephrine to norepinephrine in the perfusate of the adrenal gland stimulated with various agents was comparable and close to that in the adrenal medulla, and (3) to study the effect of tetrodotoxin on the secretion of catecholamine evoked by nicotine and muscarine. Using nicotine and muscarine as agonists, and hexamethonium and atropine as antagonists, we found that the adrenal gland of the rat contains nicotinic and muscarinic receptors, and both are linked to the secretion of catecholamines. However, these receptors are activated in a different manner by endogenous and exogenous acetylcholine. Secretion evoked by injected acetylcholine was barely blocked by either hexamethonium or atropine, but their combination produced a block. In contrast, secretion evoked by endogenous acetylcholine (splanchnic nerve stimulation) was largely reduced (75%) by hexamethonium alone. The ratios of epinephrine to norepinephrine in the perfusate were comparable before and after stimulation of the adrenal gland with nicotine, acetylcholine, or K+; the ratio was slightly higher for muscarine. Tetrodotoxin blocked the nicotine-evoked secretion by about 75% but had very little effect on the secretion evoked by muscarine. We suggest that nicotinic receptors are primarily concentrated in the synaptic zones and are involved in the physiological stimulation of the adrenal medulla, whereas extrasynaptic regions contain a mixture of nicotinic and muscarinic receptors, which are activated by injected acetylcholine.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Monoclonal antibodies to rat striatal choline acetyltransferase were produced by fusion of sensitized mouse lymphocytes with murine plasmacytoma (NS1) cells. Two stable anti-choline acetyltransferase lines were established by limiting dilution cloning. Specificity of antibody was established by the following criteria: (1) on an enzyme linked immunosorbant assay, antibodies reacted against choline acetyltransferase which was highly purified; (2) by immunoprecipitation, monoclonal antibody bound to its antigen and precipitated choline acetyltransferase activity from solution, when used in conjunction with rabbit antimouse IgG; and (3) monoclonal antibody was shown to specifically localize cholinergic neurons. The monoclonal antibody to choline acetyltransferase was radiolabeled in culture by incubating hybridomas in medium containing 3H-labeled amino acids. This 3H-labeled antibody was used for radioautography on cryostat sections of rat peripheral and central nervous systems. In a sampling of areas, highly specific labeling of cholinergic structures was afforded at both light and electron microscopic levels. Double labeling of tyrosine hydroxylase, a catecholaminergic marker, and choline acetyltransferase was carried out by reacting sections first with the 3H-labeled antibody to choline acetyltransferase and then with rabbit antibody to tyrosine hydroxylase. The choline acetyltransferase label was radioautographically processed and tyrosine hydroxylase was visualized by the peroxidase-antiperoxidase method. The combined techniques of peroxidase and radioautographic histochemistry provide permanent electron dense labels which can be examined simultaneously within a single histologic section.
The cellular distribution of guanylate cyclase (EC 4.6.1.2), guanosine 3',5'-phosphate (cyclic GMP), cyclic GMP-dependent protein kinase (EC 2.7.1.38), and cyclic GMP phosphodiesterase (EC 3.1.4.17) have been examined in the rostral rat caudate-putamen complex. Immunofluorescent staining for guanylate cyclase, cyclic GMP, and cyclic GMP-dependent protein kinase in fresh frozen caudate-putamen tissues is analogous to the immunoperoxidase localization in perfusion-fixed striatal slices. Homologous immunoreactivity in the cytoplasm and processes of ovoid and rounded neurons, 15-20 microns in diameter can be seen for these three components of the cyclic GMP system. Immunoreactive neurons are uniformly distributed throughout the caudate-putamen complex of all experimental tissue examined. Occasional large neurons, greater than 25 microns in diameter, in the ventral region of the striatum show immunoreactivity. Enzyme histochemical determination of the activities of guanylate cyclase and cyclic GMP phosphodiesterase show the medium-sized neuronal population (15-20 microns) contain hydrolytic activity for these proteins. Large- to medium-sized capillaries demonstrate guanylate cyclase synthetic activity, but the endothelial cells do not exhibit immunohistochemical staining. This suggests that physiological activity of an enzyme cannot be completely discerned through application of immunohistochemical procedures. Additionally, enzymatically detected guanylate cyclase histochemical activity was not uniformly distributed throughout the striatal neuropil. Enzyme histochemical detection of cyclic GMP phosphodiesterase demonstrates homologous cellular staining to guanylate cyclase enzymatic reactivity. The activity of the phosphodiesterase hydrolytic enzyme could be detected evenly distributed throughout the neuropil within cells 15-20 microns in diameter, analogous in cytoarchitecture to immunohistochemically visualized guanylate cyclase, cyclic GMP, and protein kinase elements. Ultrastructural examination of rat caudate-putamen demonstrates that the immunoreactivity for the components of the cyclic GMP system is predominantly distributed within the medium-spiny neuron subtype of this structure. Occasional aspiny neurons demonstrate peroxidase immunoreactivity for the cyclase, cyclic GMP, and the protein kinase, as does the luminal surface of capillary endothelial cells. The subcellular distribution of the antigenic determinants for these three elements and the hydrolytic activity of the phosphodiesterase enzyme show proximity to one another and are confined to the postsynaptic region of asymmetrical, but not symmetrical, terminal boutons. The asymmetrical terminal population of the caudate-putamen is derived from striatal afferents from the neocortex, intralaminar thalamus, and substantia nigra, and to a lesser extent the intrinsic striatal circuitry.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)



Structural shifts in neuroscience, the development of new investigatory approaches and appearance of new interdisciplinary problems--all this induces nowadays the followers of Pavlov and Sechenov traditions of brain and behavior study in the USSR in many aspects to see in a new way the aims and perspectives of further development of physiology of higher nervous activity. Success and difficulties of these collective methodological searches, their points of convergence and divergence with the ideas of their foreign colleagues, with modern conceptions in genetics, psychology and informatics, their point of view at the future of neuroscience--that is the object of the author's analysis.



This report treats the fundamental question raised by Yates [Am. J. Physiol. 238 (Regulatory Integrative Comp. Physiol. 7): R277-R290, 1980.]: &quot;Why should neuroscience look to physics for its theories?&quot; This is the viewpoint of an experimentalist who needs a physical approach to brain theories to interpret the results of physically oriented experiments on electroencephalogram and evoked potentials. The fundamental physical theories are briefly outlined; the phenomena of enhancement of brain potentials, frequency stabilization effects, and phase-resetting phenomena of populations of neurons in the brain are explained. The results of experiments are interpreted in the light of a variety of physical theories: coupled oscillators, induced magnetization, laser physics, and synergetics. Further, analogies with nonlinear mechanics, theory of dissipative structures, and the S-matrix formalism of quantum mechanics are provided to predict the brain's excitability. The homeokinetic approach of Iberall, the electromagnetic theory of Adey, and the quantumlike theories of Walter are discussed. It is concluded that brain scientists need an ensemble of physical approaches and concepts to understand various brain mechanisms.


Eduard Hitzig and Gustav Fritsch's experimental &quot;demonstration&quot; of cerebral localization in 1870 was a major event in the history of attempts to relate behavior to the central nervous system. Their work transformed the vague speculations that began with Franz Josef Gall into professionally responsible activity. In Germany the work of Hitzig and his followers led to violent controversies concerning both the observations and interpretations of cerebral localization. This paper considers why German scientists, who had universally opposed the work of British and French localizers up to 1870, suddenly became interested in the subject at this time, and also why the issue of cerebral localization evoked such passion within the German scientific community. Adequate answers to these questions must involve consideration of the professional relations between physiologists and the developing field of psychiatry. They must also include discussion of the reactions of scientific intellectuals to the most important political development of the time, namely, the unification of Germany.

A new non-metallic push-pull cannula device is described for the localized perfusion of brain sites in the rat or other animal. Comprised entirely of glass and plastic materials, the cannula is intended for usage in an experiment in which the presence in tissue of metal tubing for delivery of perfusate is methodologically inappropriate. The main features of the cannula include its light weight, a Delrin pedestal base, a micro-glass guide tube, a polyethylene stylet, plastic spacers for adjustment of depth of perfusion, a protective cap for the chronic maintenance of the preparation, low cost and re-usability. The push-pull cannula is of concentric design and is fashioned from glass capillary and polyethylene tubing which are bonded at their common junctions by an epoxy cement. During a push-pull perfusion a special perfusion cap is used not only to hold the cannula firmly in place but also to protect the glass components from external damage. To further coincide with the metal-free requirements of the preparation, bone screws of nylon are used during the surgical implantation of the pedestal base. A prototype experiment illustrating its use in an unrestrained animal also is presented. The special applications for this cannula system are discussed which include its usage in experiments in either the anesthetized or unanesthetized rat exposed to microwave radiation where the presence of metal in the field would result in unwanted 'hot spots' in the cerebral tissue.
The first human stereotaxic apparatus was probably built in London, England, around 1918 to the specifications of Aubrey Mussen, a neuroanatomist and neurophysiologist who had worked with Clarke. The recent acquisition by the Montreal Neurological Institute of Mussen's original apparatus prompts this report on the salient points of his career, and summary of his early contributions to stereotaxy.

Mast cells are often observed near nerves and functional evidence suggests an innervation of these cells. In the present ultrastructural study, nerve terminals containing many small clear vesicles and a few large vesicles with dense matrix were observed in direct contact with the plasma membrane of mucosal mast cells in the rat ileum, strongly suggestive of a direct innervation.
A systematic line-sampling method is described for counting and mapping myelinated axons in transverse sections of the spinal cord. Its advantages over random sampling of small areas are considered. The technique was applied to quantifying experimental weight-drop contusion injuries of cat spinal cord, from several months to more than a year after injury. Contusion of the mid-thoracic cord with a 20 g weight dropped 20 cm was usually sufficient to produce chronic hindlimb paralysis whilst allowing the survival of significant numbers (40,000-110,000) of myelinated axons passing through the lesion site. The axons which survived were concentrated towards the pial surface. There was a proportionally greater loss of larger diameter axons, but this was independent of distance from the pia, indicating that at least two independent factors contribute to selective axonal death following injury, one related to depth within the cord, the other to axon diameter. Myelin sheath thickness was decreased from normal and this deficit also increased with depth. There was overlap in all these quantitative morphological characteristics between animals showing some recovery of hindlimb locomotion and those with maintained spastic paralysis at more than six months after injury. Effective locomotion was found to recover in some cases with the maintenance of a small proportion (5-10%) of the original axonal population, largely concentrated in a rim only 200-300 microns thick. Morphological correlates of paralysis in chronic injuries included severe reduction of axonal number, selective elimination of large fibers, and sustained dysmyelination. Any one or combination of these may be responsible for chronic paralysis in individual animals.
In vitro fragments of male rat mediobasal hypothalami were superfused with Krebs--Ringer solution in the presence or absence of CaCl2. Infusions containing up to 60 mM potassium chloride were applied, at the end of which tissues were fixed in osmium tetroxide and prepared for transmission electron microscopy. Control superfusions were run in parallel. Quantitative measurements performed on electron micrographs of the outermost palisade region showed significant (20-30%) increase in caliber of axon endings after intensive potassium ion stimulation. Ultrastructurally, widespread depletion of granular vesicles and microvesicles was found. Vesicle shift to the outer zone of the terminals, formation of membrane-bound tubules of the same diameter as microvesicles, and images of attachment and collapse of vesicles into the axolemma were found, particularly after 1 min stimulation. These findings were interpreted as consistent with exocytosis. Longer stimulations were followed by the appearance of large pleomorphic vacuoles that are probably the result of post-exocytotic membrane retrieval. Axon enlargement and vesicle depletion were absent in specimens superfused with calcium-free medium containing high potassium. The functional significance of these ultrastructural changes are interpreted as supporting the hypothesis that exocytosis of calcium-loaded microvesicles can contribute to extrude this ion from median eminence nerve endings during secretion.
Three experiments examined the effect of central noradrenergic depletion on the acquisition and performance of a temporal discrimination in auditory or visual modalities. In Experiment 1, 6-hydroxydopamine-induced lesions of the dorsal noradrenergic bundle significantly retarded acquisition compared to a similarly lesioned ventral noradrenergic bundle-group, two sham-operated and one unoperated control group. In Experiment 2, the acquisition impairment produced in the dorsal noradrenergic bundle group was replicated, for both auditory and visual modalities, by lesions depleting hippocampal and neocortical noradrenaline by over 80%. In rats subsequently switched to discriminations involving the unfamiliar modality, the dorsal-bundle lesion also impaired acquisition several weeks after surgery. Experiment 3 showed significantly impaired performance in rats with dorsal bundle lesions when training prior to surgery had not resulted in better than chance performance. In rats previously trained to criterion, the dorsal bundle lesion transiently, but non-significantly, impaired performance. In rats performing better than chance, but not having reached criterion, there were no significant effects of the dorsal bundle lesion. Subsequent manipulations of deprivation and difficulty of discrimination in general failed to distinguish between the dorsal bundle lesion and sham-groups, suggesting that the acquisition impairment did not result from simple sensory or motivational effects. Reducing the interstimulus interval did impair the dorsal bundle group more than controls. However, there was no evidence of altered &quot;distractibility&quot; in the lesioned group when the alternative modality was introduced as a distractor. The results are discussed in terms of other acquisition deficits shown by rats with central noradrenaline depletion and their significance for determining the functions of the projections from the locus caeruleus via the dorsal noradrenergic bundle to the neocortex and hippocampus.
Using electron microscopy and the combined oxalate-pyroantimonate technique, free calcium ions were located in the hippocampus of control rats and of those that had undergone status epilepticus induced by L-allylglycine or bicuculline. The validity of this technique was established by the use of the calcium chelating agent ethylene glycol bis(beta-aminoethyl ether), N,N'-tetra-acetic acid and by an X-ray microanalytical technique. In control material, calcium deposits were visible in synaptic vesicles and multivesicular bodies, in parts of the Golgi apparatus, mitochondria, lysosomes, and in glial and neuronal nuclei. Following 2 h of status epilepticus, cellular pathology included astrocytic swelling, and dark cell degeneration of pyramidal neurons. This was accompanied by a marked increase in the amount of calcium pyroantimonate deposits, particularly in swollen and disrupted mitochondria of CA1 and CA3 basal dendrites, and in selected neuronal cell bodies in the CA1 and CA3-4 regions. We propose that enhanced calcium entry into neurons and consequent overloading of the capacity of mitochondria for calcium sequestration is part of the cytotoxic mechanism leading to selective neuronal loss in the hippocampus in status epilepticus.
The effect of the glutamate antagonist gamma-D-glutamylglycine on the induction of long-term potentiation in the dentate gyrus has been investigated in vivo. gamma-D-glutamyglycine (10(-3) M) perfused through a push-pull cannula into the dentate gyrus, rapidly reduced perforant path evoked potentials. Application to the perforant path of a high-frequency train (250 Hz, 500 ms), which in control animals reliably produced long term potentiation, had no effect on the evoked potentials when applied during blockade by gamma-D-glutamylglycine. This result was obtained despite the inability of gamma-D-glutamylglycine completely to inhibit the evoked potentials. However, when standard medium was reintroduced, potentiation was revealed in animals that had received the high-frequency train, whereas in animals that had received no high-frequency train during gamma-D-glutamylglycine inhibition the potentials returned only to pre-drug levels. In additional experiments, in which the dentate gyrus was continuously perfused with [3H]glutamine, and the steady state outflow of [3H]glutamate was measured, it was observed that gamma-D-glutamylglycine (10(-3) M) increased the steady state release of [3H]glutamate into the perfusate. From this result it is likely that gamma-D-glutamylglycine does not have any presynaptic inhibitory activity at the perforant path-granule cell synapse. The results indicate that a high frequency train applied to the perforant path during a period of inhibition by gamma-D-glutamylglycine was able to induce long term potentiation, whose expression was, however, masked until the glutamate antagonist was removed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Using three independent in vivo methods, we have obtained evidence for electrotonic coupling between sets of rat zona compacta dopaminergic neurons: (1) Lucifer yellow injection into single dopamine neurons resulted in labeling of two to five dopamine neurons in 18 out of 33 injections. Similar injections into reticular formation or nigral reticulata cells did not demonstrate multiple labeling. (2) Intracellular recording revealed spontaneously occurring small (3-15 mV) fast potentials that often triggered action potentials in dopamine neurons when the membrane potential was close to firing threshold. These fast potentials had a firing rate and pattern similar to that reported previously for extracellularly recorded dopamine neurons. Fast potentials were activated antidromically from the caudate nucleus at a latency similar to that reported for dopamine neurons, followed high frequency antidromic stimulation at a constant latency, and collided with spontaneously occurring fast potentials. However, directly elicited action potentials would not collide reliably with antidromically activated fast potentials. Intracellular injection of depolarizing or hyperpolarizing current increased and decreased, respectively, the rate of occurrence of these potentials. The firing rate of fast potentials could be increased and decreased by the intravenous administration of dopamine antagonists and agonists, respectively. (3) Simultaneous extracellular recording from pairs of DA neurons revealed numerous instances of synchronized action potentials. This was observed more frequently following intravenous haloperidol administration. Sets of burst firing dopamine neurons recorded simultaneously consistently demonstrated a decrease in the interspike interval as the burst progressed; a phenomenon commonly reported in other electrically coupled systems. Electrical coupling has been suggested to be present in sets of identified nigrostriatal dopamine neurons. Electrical communication between these neurons could be involved in modulating burst firing and in synchronizing dopamine release.
Intracellular recordings from identified nigral dopamine neurons in the rat revealed that their potentials are composed of four components: (1) a slow depolarization, (2) an initial segment spike, (3) a somatodendritic spike, and (4) an afterhyperpolarization. By combining intracellular and extracellular recording techniques with anatomical studies using intracellular injections of Lucifer yellow, an attempt was made to localize each of these potentials to various neuronal compartments. Lucifer yellow injections demonstrated that the dopamine neurons recorded have a pyramidal or polygonal shaped soma, 12-30 microns in diameter, with 3-6 thick major dendrites which extend 10-50 microns from the soma before bifurcating. The axon appears to rise from a major dendrite 15-30 microns from the soma. Based on this anatomical configuration, results from the electrophysiological studies suggest that: (1) the slow depolarization is a pacemaker-like conductance most likely localized to the somatic region, (2) the initial segment spike is a low-threshold spike probably located at the axon hillock, (3) the somatodendritic spikes are long duration spikes that rapidly inactivate with depolarization, have a high threshold, and are localized to the dendritic regions. The action potential is then terminated by a long duration afterhyperpolarization. Our data further suggest that spike generation may be initiated by a slow depolarization at the soma triggering a spike in the low-threshold axon hillock which then spreads across the already-depolarized soma to trigger the dendritic spike. Based on the above findings, dopamine neurons can be compartmentalized electrophysiologically and morphologically into subcomponents, each associated with spikes and specific ionic currents. The high threshold dendritic component of the action potential demonstrates rapid inactivation with depolarization, and thus occurs over a rather narrow range of membrane polarization. This limited range of action potential generation may be important in control of dendritic dopamine release and/or modulation of electrical coupling between dopaminergic neurons.
Intracellular recordings were obtained from directly identified rat nigral dopamine cells in vivo. This identification was based on an increase in glyoxylic acid-induced catecholamine fluorescence in the impaled dopamine neurons. One of three compounds was injected intracellularly into each cell to produce the heightened fluorescence: (1) L-DOPA, to increase the intracellular dopamine content by precursor loading; (2) tetrahydrobiopterin, a cofactor for tyrosine hydroxylase, to increase intracellular dopamine concentration through activation of the rate-limiting enzyme for dopamine synthesis and (3) colchicine, to arrest intraneuronal transport and thus allow the build-up of dopamine synthesizing enzymes and dopamine in the soma. In addition, dopamine cells were antidromically activated from the caudate nucleus and collision with a directly elicited action potential was demonstrated. Identified dopamine neurons were shown to possess an input resistance of 31.2 +/- 7.4 M omega (means +/- SD) and a time constant of 12.1 +/- 3.2 ms. The action potentials were of long duration (2.75 +/- 0.5 ms) with a marked break between the initial segment and the somatodendritic spike components. The initial segment was the only component commonly elicited during antidromic activation. Spontaneously occurring action potentials were usually preceded by a slow, pacemaker-like depolarization. Burst firing by summation of depolarizing afterpotentials was observed to occur spontaneously, but could not be triggered by short depolarizing current pulses. Intravenously administered apomorphine demonstrated the same inhibitory effect on cell firing that was previously reported to occur when recording extracellularly from identified dopaminergic neurons. The determination of the electrophysiological characteristics of a population of cells directly identified as containing a specific neurotransmitter (in this case, dopamine) may allow one to construct better models of a system's functioning. Thus, the high input resistance and long time constant of dopamine-containing cells, combined with their burst/pause firing mode, may be important functionally with respect to a possible modulatory effect of dopamine in postsynaptic target areas.
The properties of cells of the striate visual cortex (V1) have been studied in the normal adult sheep and in new-born lambs without visual experience, the majority of cells in the lamb are orientation specific, but 20% are non-oriented compared to only 3% cells in the adult. In the lamb there was little or no facilitation of binocularly-driven cells by simultaneous stimulation of both receptive fields. Cells which responded only to binocular stimulation of particular disparities ('obligate binocular' cells) were rarely encountered. In the adult, 15% of the sample were obligate binocular cells and a further 28% showed binocular facilitation. Simple and complex receptive fields were found in similar proportions in both new-born lambs and adult sheep. End-stopped cells comprised 17% of the sample in adults but only 2% in the lambs. Direction sensitive cells were found more frequently in the sheep (21% of cells) than in the lamb (4% of cells). It is concluded that facilitatory processes in binocular cells and inhibitory mechanisms generally, seem much less developed in the lamb.
Neurons were studied in the striate cortex of the cat following intracellular recording and iontophoresis of horseradish peroxidase. The three selected neurons were identified as large basket cells on the basis that (i) the horizontal extent of their axonal arborization was three times or more than the extent of the dendritic arborization; (ii) some of their varicose terminal segments surrounded the perikarya of other neurons. The large elongated perikarya of the first two basket cells were located around the border of layers III and IV. The radially-elongated dendritic field, composed of beaded dendrites without spines, had a long axis of 300-350 microns, extending into layers III and IV, and a short axis of 200 microns. Only the axon, however, was recovered from the third basket cell. The lateral spread of the axons of the first two basket cells was 900 microns or more in layer III and, for the third cell, was over 1500 microns in the antero-posterior dimension, a value indicating that the latter neuron probably fulfills the first criterion above. The axon collaterals of all three cells often branched at approximately 90 degrees to the parent axon. The first two cells also had axon collaterals which descended to layers IV and V and had less extensive lateral spreads. The axons of all three cells formed clusters of boutons which could extend up a radial column of their target cells. Electron microscopic examination of the second basket cell showed a large lobulated nucleus and a high density of mitochondria in both the perikarya and dendrites. The soma and dendrites were densely covered by synaptic terminals. The axons of the second and third cells were myelinated up to the terminal segments. A total of 177 postsynaptic elements was analysed, involving 66 boutons of the second cell and 89 boutons of the third cell. The terminals contained pleomorphic vesicles and established symmetrical synapses with their postsynaptic targets. The basket cell axons formed synapses principally on pyramidal cell perikarya (approximately 33% of synapses), spines (20% of synapses) and the apical and basal dendrites of pyramidal cells (24% of synapses). Also contacted were the perikarya and dendrites of non-pyramidal cells, an axon, and an axon initial segment. A single pyramidal cell may receive input on its soma, apical and basal dendrites and spines from the same large basket cell.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The noradrenergic nerve terminals and their vesicle populations have been subject to much ultrastructural research which has served to support and extend data from biochemical analysis and pharmacological-physiological experiments. Although a great deal of information has been collected, there are still many problems which need further investigation before the various aspects of large and small dense-cored vesicle function and their possible relationship to the various types of clear vesicles and vacuoles in the terminals can be fully explained. In particular, the ontogeny of microvesicles (30-40 nm), intermediate clear vesicles (45-55 nm) and large vacuoles or cisternae (150-200 nm) needs clarification before they can be fruitfully compared to similar structures assigned various roles in other types of terminals. From the data presently available the following conclusions can be drawn (Fig. 32): (1) both large and small dense-cored vesicles participate in exocytosis. (2) The various steps of the exocytotic process from vesicle fusion to vesicle membrane retrieval can be captured by ultrastructural methods but the mode(s) of membrane recapture remains to be resolved. (3) A morphologically heterogeneous population of clear vesicles probably reflects organelles of different ontogeny some being formed via terminal membrane endocytosis and some representing smooth endoplasmic reticulum or small &quot;dense-cored&quot; vesicles devoid of noradrenaline. (4) The small dense-cored vesicles may be formed in the cell body and transported to the terminals as this type of vesicle can be seen in the axons (where they probably are not undergoing retrograde transport as suggested for some of the small clear vesicles). Some small dense-cored vesicles may also be formed from the permanganate and dichromate-positive tubular structures common in rodent terminals. (5) There is no morphological evidence for the presence of large protein molecules such as dopamine beta-hydroxylase in the dense core of small vesicles. Their staining properties appear to reflect mainly noradrenaline and small molecules that can leak out from the vesicles in parallel with the transmitter. (6) Dopamine beta-hydroxylase and opioid peptides secreted from the noradrenergic terminals most probably originate from the large vesicles. (7) The hypothesis that only the large dense-cored vesicles contain and secrete dopamine beta-hydroxylase and opioids can help to explain the species differences in the concentrations of these substances observed in certain tissues.
The effect of Bothrops jararacussu venom was studied in cutaneous pectoris nerve muscle preparations and in the desheathed sciatic nerve of the frog. The venom rapidly inhibited muscle twitch--tension, evoked either directly or indirectly through the motor nerve and abolished the compound action potential of the muscle and of the sciatic nerve. After fractionation of the venom by Sephadex G-50 column chromatography, all the activity was recovered in a fraction containing 30% of the total venom protein and highly enriched in two polypeptides with apparent Mr of 13-15,000, as revealed by two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The concentration of active subfraction required to obtain 50% paralysis in 1 h was 8 micrograms protein/ml. The active subfraction contained low levels of phospholipase A activity, whereas no proteolytic activity was detected. The paralyzing activity of the active subfraction on nerve-muscle preparations was not dependent on the presence of Ca2+, suggesting that phospholipase A activity is not required for the toxic effect. The active subfraction was found to cause an initial spontaneous contracture and fasciculation of the nerve-muscle preparation, and a rapid depolarization of the muscle membrane. The frequency of miniature endplate potentials was normal throughout the period of exposure to the active subfraction, although occasionally initial transient bursts were observed. At the end of the incubation, nerve endings still responded to high [K+] and to black widow spider venom. The exposure (1-2 h) to blocking concentrations of venom active subfraction provoked different degrees of morphological alteration of the muscle fibers. In contrast, no ultrastructural alterations were observed in nerve terminals, giving further support to the idea that terminals are not a prime site of the venom action. In addition to its effect on the nerve muscle-preparation, the active subfraction at higher concentrations, showed a Ca2+-dependent hemolytic activity. In the light of these results, the properties of the active subfraction of B. jararacussu venom are compared with those of other known membrane-active toxins.
The effect of vanadate on the adenylate cyclase activity of rat cerebral cortex homogenates is described. In the absence of ethyleneglycol-bis-(beta-aminoethyl ether) N,N'-tetraacetic acid (EGTA), 10(-6)M vanadate inhibited enzyme activity by 23%, while 10 (-4) M and 10(-3) M stimulated the enzyme by 14 and 90%, respectively. In the presence of 0.2 mM EGTA, 10 (-6) M to 10(-3) M vanadate had only stimulating effects (18-450%). Additive effects of vanadate and noradrenaline on adenylate cyclase activity suggest different sites of action of these agents. Interaction of vanadate with both fluoride and guanyl-5'-yl imidodiphosphate had an apparently competitive character. Adenylate cyclase maximally stimulated by fluoride (10 mM) was inhibited by vanadate. This inhibitory effect was more pronounced in the absence of EGTA. Adenylate cyclase in the homogenates from the rat cerebral cortex in vivo invaded by spreading depression was slightly increased (up to 38%). This effect was abolished by low (10 (-7) M) vanadate. The results suggest that brain adenylate cyclase is stimulated by vanadate via the guanine nucleotide regulatory protein. The mechanism of vanadate's action, its modulation by calcium ions and the possible physiological role of these effects are discussed.
Immunoreactive gastrin releasing peptide (GRP) was demonstrated in neuronal elements in the porcine pancreas and in the gut of several mammals. Immunoreactive endocrine cells could not be detected. The results of radioimmunochemical analysis agreed well with those of immunocytochemistry. The occurrence of gastrin-releasing peptide-containing nerve cell bodies in the myenteric ganglia all along the gut indicates that gastrin-releasing peptide fibers are intramural in origin. The distribution of gastrin-releasing peptide fibers in all layers of the gut wall suggests multiple functions of gastrin-releasing peptide, including a role in the regulation of intramural neuronal activities, smooth muscle tone and in secretory and absorptive processes.
A monoclonal antibody, designated anti-NSP-4 (anti-Neural cell Surface Protein-4), was obtained from a hybridoma generated by fusing rat myeloma cells with splenocytes of a rat immunized with membranes from the cerebella of weaver mutant mice. This antibody reacted with several high-molecular weight polypeptides in extracts prepared from the newborn and adult CNS of wild-type mice. The main NSP-4-reactive bands from neonatal cerebellum and spinal cord migrated with apparent molecular weights of 220,000 and 140,000. Major bands of 160,000 and of 175,000, 160,000 and 140,000 molecular weight were revealed in the adult cerebellum and spinal cord, respectively. Reaction of the antibodies with concanavalin A-binding proteins demonstrated the glycoprotein nature of the antigen. Cell types expressing NSP-4 antigen were determined using indirect immunofluorescence on monolayer cultures of early postnatal mouse cerebellar and dorsal root ganglion cells and on sections of developing and adult mouse cerebellum. In cerebellar cultures, the antibody reacted with the surface membrane of a subpopulation of astrocytes and of a small subset of neurones. In dorsal root ganglion cultures, anti-NSP-4 antibodies were highly specific for a subclass of small neurones. Staining for NSP-4 in sections of adult cerebellum was confined to the granular layer where the antibody seemed to label astroglia. In the developing cerebellum, NSP-4 staining outlined cell bodies of neuroblasts and migrating granule cells in the external granular layer. Post-migratory granule cells and Purkinje cells were negative. As in the adult, the labeled structures in the internal granular layer were probably astrocytes. Our results on the in vivo and in vitro localization of NSP-4 show its expression by subclasses of neurones and astrocytes in the cerebellum and by a subclass of neurones in cultures from the peripheral nervous system. The developmentally-regulated changes in the molecular weight forms of the NSP-4 antigen together with the shift in its cellular localization during cerebellar ontogeny suggest a functional significance for this antigen in developmental processes.
The distribution and subcellular localization of calmodulin in adult and developing cerebellum was studied in rats by immunocytochemistry. Calmodulin immunoreactivity was found both in neurons and in glial cells. Within neurons the staining was particularly intense in the cell nucleus and in dendrites, the cytoplasm of the cell body was more lightly stained than the nucleus, and light immunoreactivity was observed in axons. Electron microscopic analysis confirmed the association of calmodulin with the nuclear chromatin, while the nucleolus remained unstained. The reaction product was also found overlying the membranes of several organelles, in postsynaptic densities and decorating both dendritic and axonal microtubules. In developing Purkinje cells, calmodulin immunoreactivity was found as early as 5 days after birth. During the initial phases of dendritic development (5-10 days post-natal), the reaction product was associated with the organelles of the apical cone, while little or no staining was observed in the elongating dendrites or in the cell nucleus. Later in development, calmodulin was found in primary and secondary dendrites, and by 20 days after birth immunoreactivity appeared in the cell nucleus, and in the postsynaptic densities of immature spines located in dendrites. The presence of calmodulin in the apical cone suggests the possibility that this protein may participate in the regulation of microtubule formation during the initial stages of dendritic development. Its presence in dendrites at later stages (during the period of synaptogenesis) may indicate that it also participates in the formation of synapses between the parallel fibres and dendritic spines.
To clarify the circuitry through which opioid compounds modulate spinal and trigeminal nociceptive transmission, we have examined the synaptic associations formed by leucine-enkephalin-containing (enkephalin) neurons in the superficial dorsal horn of the cat. As described previously, punctate enkephalin immunoreactivity is concentrated in the marginal layer (lamina I) and in both the outer and inner layers of the substantia gelatinosa (lamina IIo and IIi). In colchicine treated cats, enkephalin perikarya are most numerous in lamina I and at the border between laminae I and II. Ultrastructural analysis reveals that enkephalin cells receive a diverse afferent input. The majority of afferent inputs are presynaptic to the enkephalin dendrites; few axosomatic synapses are seen. Among these presynaptic axonal profiles are unlabeled axons which resemble primary afferent terminals, including the characteristic central axonal varicosity. Enkephalin dendrites are also postsynaptic to enkephalin immunoreactive axons. Two types of enkephalin axonal profiles appear in the superficial dorsal horn. Class I profiles are only found in lamina I. These are large profiles which form few synapses; those synapses made are axodendritic. Class II enkephalin axons are smaller and are distributed in both layers I and II. While Class II axons most commonly form axo-dendritic synapses, they also form axo-axonic synapses with flat vesicle-containing profiles; the latter are generally presynaptic to the enkephalin terminals. Serial analysis further revealed that both the enkephalin and the flat vesicle-containing profile synapse onto a common dendrite. Although enkephalin axons frequently lie adjacent to round vesicle-containing profiles, anatomical evidence that opioid axons form synapses with this type of ending was not found. An additional type of enkephalin vesicle containing-profile is found in layer IIi; its morphological features do not clearly distinguish its axonal or dendritic origin. These endings are typically postsynaptic to unlabelled central endings, and provide minimal presynaptic input to other elements in the neuropil. Like some class II axons, these labelled profiles contain vesicles which cluster at the membrane immediately adjacent to unlabelled central axons. These results indicate that spinal enkephalin neurons receive a variety of synaptic inputs. These include inputs which may derive from primary afferent axons. Enkephalin neurons, in turn, influence nociceptive transmission predominantly through postsynaptic mechanisms. Finally, while we did not observe enkephalin terminals presynaptic in an axoaxonic relationship, the possibility that enkephalin neurons modulate the excitability of fine fiber nociceptive and nonnociceptive afferents via &quot;nonsynaptic interactions&quot; is discussed.
A gradation of small rostral to larger caudal neurosecretory cells is found in the preoptic area of fish. Regional variations in ultrastructural features were assessed in this region of fish ranging widely in size (1.7-283.1 g), some of which had received intraperitoneal injections of horseradish peroxidase in order to label neurons projecting beyond the blood-brain barrier (i.e. neurosecretory cells). In small (less than or equal to 6.6 g) fish, neurosecretory cells of the caudal preoptic area were 10-15 microns in diameter and contained dense core vesicles. More rostral smaller cells had few or no dense core vesicles, but were labeled following intraperitoneal horseradish peroxidase injections. Cells in both areas were progressively larger, with larger nuclei and more granular reticulum in larger fish. In large fish, neurons that contained dense core vesicles ranged from 10 microns in diameter rostrally to 70 microns in diameter caudally. Some intermediate and large cells were extensively vacuolated and contained extremely convoluted and possibly multiple nuclei. Degenerating material was seen in apparently normal large fish. A few neurosecretory cells were extensively surrounded by perineuronal electron-dense glial cells. Most neurosecretory cells were involved in extensive soma-somatic apposition, which was especially pronounced in fish which were removed from cold water in late fall. Gap junctions were also clearly present on the somata of preoptic neurosecretory cells of these fall fish. These data imply that increased capacity for hormone secretion in large fish may be accomplished in part by neuronal hypertrophy. Maturational and seasonal variation in structure suggest that physiological characteristics are also variable in this nucleus.
The origin of the serotoninergic innervation of the rat subcommissural organ was studied using radioautography of tritiated serotonin and biochemical determination of endogenous serotonin content after electrolytic lesions of raphe nuclei. The results suggest that this innervation is mainly derived from nuclei raphe centralis superior and raphe dorsalis, each nucleus contributing about one-third of the input. A possible contribution from nucleus raphe pontis is also suggested. Given the different patterns of innervation revealed by silver staining of nerve fibers and the different patterns of secretory activity observed with histochemical methods after the electrolytic lesions, the following working hypothesis is formulated. Nucleus raphe dorsalis would inhibit the synthesis of secretory material in the rat subcommissural organ via medium-sized serotoninergic fibers restricted to the hypendymal region, whereas nucleus raphe centralis superior might inhibit the release of secretory material via rather thin serotoninergic fibers reaching the nuclear level of the ependyma. This hypothesis is in line with the inhibitory effect postulated for the serotoninergic innervation in the rat subcommissural organ in early investigations using serotonin neurotoxins.
Explants of 14-day fetal mouse spinal cord with attached dorsal root ganglia, which had become differentiated over 2-3 weeks in culture, were exposed to 1-2 microM taxol for up to 6 days. The culture medium was supplemented with nerve growth factor (300 units/ml) during exposure to the drug. By 3-6 days in taxol, unusually numerous microtubules were seen in peripheral perikaryal and proximal neuritic regions of ganglion neurons. Microtubules also engirdled massive aggregations of pleomorphic vesicular/cisternal elements in many neurons. These aggregates were visible as unusual 'clear' spheroidal regions in the living cells, and were often as large as the nuclei. Some of the elements comprising these striking vesicular/cisternal accumulations appeared to be portions of disrupted Golgi complexes normally polarized around the cytocentrum, as well as hypertrophied smooth endoplasmic reticulum formations. In other neuronal areas, Golgi complexes and other organelles were altered or disrupted to lesser degrees. Ordered microtubular arrays occurred along endoplasmic reticulum cisternae both in neuron somata and neurites. Over time, a plethora of microtubules assembled throughout the perikarya in various orientations apparently unrelated to microtubule organizing centers. Unlike the effects of other plant alkaloids that interact with tubulin, there was no discernible increase in filaments, although their distribution appeared altered. Concentric ordered microtubular-macromolecular lamellated complexes were seen only in neurites. Neuronal nuclei were misshapen, often displaced, and displayed fine structure reminiscent of chromatolysis. Satellite and Schwann cells contained atypically abundant microtubules, abnormal cisternae, disrupted Golgi complexes, and increased lysosomes. Some nuclei displayed abnormal chromatin, and in rare cases even microtubules. We suggest that taxol alters the distribution, integrity, and/or organization of organelle systems in dorsal root ganglion cells by engendering unusually abundant microtubules in abnormal groupings and aberrant locations in these cells.
Electrophysiological recordings from the cells of the neostriatum in rats anaesthetised with halothane revealed only inhibitory actions of dopamine applied iontophoretically close to the cells. Inhibition of cortical driving seemed to have a slightly higher threshold in most cells but dopamine inhibited spontaneous action potentials, glutamate-induced responses, and cortical driving in the cells studied. Fluphenazine applied iontophoretically blocked the actions of dopamine but was itself without effect on the neuronal responses. Sulpiride, in contrast, was without effect on the spontaneous activity of the cells and was ineffective in blocking the action of applied dopamine. Sulpiride, nevertheless, increased the response to cortical stimulation though it had no action on the response to applied glutamate. These results suggest that the sub-class of dopamine receptors on the terminals of the corticostriatal pathway may be inhibitory on glutamate release and preferentially sensitive to blockade by sulpiride.
Wallerian degeneration in the primary afferents consequent to death of parental root ganglion cells was successfully traced up to the level of the nucleus gracilis, following intraneural injections of ricinus communis agglutinin (RCA 60 or RCA 120) into the sciatic nerve or its branches. This method serves as a novel way of tracing primary afferents in the CNS in strict concordance with their counterparts in the peripheral nerve.

A device allowing head holding and stereotaxic manipulations in both small-sized Marmoset and in relatively large Macaca monkeys is described. Its design permits free access to most targets in the visual system and optimizes presentation of visual stimuli in awake-chronic and anaesthetized semi-chronic preparations. Extra-aural attachments to temporal bone are implanted stereotaxically, under anaesthesia, on both sides of the skull. This provides means for stereotaxic head-holding which minimizes discomfort to the animal. Maintenance of stereotaxic precision over long periods of time, possibility of realignment and use of one device for various monkey species are special features of the method.

A new simple technique for the accurate modification of microelectrode and micropipette tips by breaking has been developed. The breaking is done by longitudinally inserting a micropipette into a larger previously broken pipette for stability and by applying a force on the micropipette to cause it to break. Tips will break cleanly at an easily predetermined diameter over a range of 3-200 micrometers.
The fabrication of a shielded microelectrode is described which has a time constant of about 3 microseconds, regardless of its depth in neural tissue. The shield is insulated from surrounding tissue with an insulation resistance which exceeds 1000 M omega, and the insulation will withstand +/- 15 V. Because of its narrow profile, the electrode is suitable for in vivo intracellular recordings from motoneurones and other large neurones of the CNS. The small time constant and the high breakdown resistance of the electrode make it suitable for use with single-electrode voltage clamp circuitry to voltage clamp motoneurone somata using switching rates in excess of 30 kHz.
A procedure is described for fabricating microelectrodes of platinum-30% iridium, insulated with Epoxylite varnish and having beveled ellipsoidal tips obtained by truncating a conical tip at an angle of 30-50 degrees. The geometric surface area of the ellipsoidal facet is reproducible and easily measured. Using these electrodes, neurons in the cerebral cortex of cats have been activated without damage throughout 24 h or more of continuous stimulation at 15-30 microA and charge densities of 150-300 microC/cm2.phase.
A method for measuring horizontal and vertical eye movements is described. The oculometer utilize infrared light and resolves 0.1 degree over a linear range of +/- 20 degrees. The simultaneous observation of the fixation target and eye position with an infrared mirror and two television cameras on a single monitor makes the mechanical and electrical calibration very easy. The system has been used successfully in animal studies of vision and eye movements, in particular during recording of single cells in visual brain structures of behaving monkeys.
A system is described for the quantification of neuronal activity utilizing a microcomputer as an alternative to a conventional hard-wired ratemeter. The system, which counts the number of action potentials occurring in successive epochs, consists of a microcomputer and a small number of external electronic components (e.g. D leads to A chips, counter chips and latches) housed together with the power supply in a subrack. Output is both digital (a video monitor is used to display the count, cumulative count and elapsed time) and analogue (a chart recorder is used to record a frequency/time histogram) for two channels. Variables such as epoch time and analogue output scaling are read in from switches via latches hung onto a data-bus and can be altered without interference with the running of the program. The program is written in BASIC and stored on a C-MOS memory chip. In comparison to alternative storage systems (i.e. cassette and floppy disk) this has the advantage of immediate access and low cost; furthermore the program is readily modified.
Both retrograde and anterograde autoradiographic axonal labeling were associated with the appropriate pathways after injections of N-[acetyl-3H] wheat germ agglutinin within numerous structures in the central nervous system of mice. Sections processed for light microscopic autoradiography following the placement of injections mainly within the neocortex, neostriatum, or cerebellum have revealed patterns of bidirectional axonal labeling in various thalamic, monoaminergic, deep cerebellar and precerebellar nuclei that were similar to that seen after similarly placed horseradish peroxidase injections. Small injections of N-[acetyl-3H] wheat germ agglutinin, by way of an extremely limited extracellular spread of the tracer, yield large amounts of autoradiographic retrograde and anterograde axonal labeling. High specific activities, in addition to the sensitivity displayed by this tracer, allow the use of relatively short autoradiographic exposure times that still lead to an extensive signal over labeled neurons. Biochemical analysis of this radiolabeled derivative of wheat germ agglutinin was carried out using sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Results from Coomassie blue staining and fluorography of the gels have revealed that affinity-purified N-[acetyl-3H] wheat germ agglutinin migrates predominantly as a monomer (molecular weight 18,000 +/- 1000 daltons) as well as a dimer (35,100 +/- 1000 daltons) when compared with native wheat germ agglutinin and molecular weight standards. Gels run on the native preparation, prior to derivatization, radiolabeling and affinity purification, in addition to containing species that co-migrate with the monomeric and dimeric forms of the tagged lectin, also reveal several other bands with molecular weights above and below those values for the monomer and dimer. When scintillation counting was performed on fresh gels of N-[acetyl-3H] wheat germ agglutinin, the predominant species was again found to be the monomeric and dimeric forms; however, small peaks were also present around 12,000 daltons as well as above 43,000 daltons. Coomassie blue staining and fluorography never revealed banding below 18,000 daltons, though some trace of labeling was present, but not in the form of discrete bands, above 36,000 daltons. The presence, albeit small in comparison to the monomer and dimer, of these other higher and lower molecular weight species might in part result from fragments produced by proteolytic digestion of intact subunits of N-[acetyl-3H] wheat germ agglutinin that may or may not possess intact binding sites.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The turnover rates of adrenaline in the medial preoptic area and mediobasal hypothalamus, areas which, respectively, include the cell bodies and terminals of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone neurons, have been measured in female rats on pro-oestrus, the day of the preovulatory surge of luteinizing hormone, and on dioestrus, the preceding day. A rise in the rate of turnover was found in the medial preoptic area coinciding with the surge of luteinizing hormone in the late afternoon of pro-oestrus; the rate of turnover at this time was higher than at the same time on dioestrus. No changes in turnover rate were found in the mediobasal hypothalamus within either of these days. The results indicate that the adrenaline-containing projections to the preoptic area may be actively involved in the production of the spontaneous preovulatory surge of luteinizing hormone in rats.
The subcellular localization of enkephalins was studied in the bovine adrenal medulla. In the adrenal medulla enkephalins (Met-enkephalin, Leu-enkephalin, Met-enkephalin-Arg6-Phe7 and Met-enkephalin-Arg6-Gly7-Leu8) are found free and in the form of cryptic peptides included in larger precursors. Total Met-enkephalin immunoreactivity, which includes free and cryptic peptides, was determined after a sequential enzymatic treatment with trypsin and carboxypeptidase B. Total Met-enkephalin immunoreactivity, dopamine beta-hydroxylase and catecholamines were found to have a parallel distribution in the various subcellular fractions. The bulk of the total Met-enkephalin immunoreactivity (42%) was recovered in the large granule fraction. The large granule fraction also contained 38% of the total dopamine beta-hydroxylase activity, and 42% of the total catecholamines. Enkephalins are thus concentrated in the chromaffin granules. Chromaffin granules were also separated according to the method of Terland &amp; coworkers into two fractions: one containing the dense noradrenergic vesicles and the other containing lighter adrenergic vesicles. Total Met-enkephalin immunoreactivity was restricted to the fractions containing the lighter adrenergic vesicles. In these fractions the molar ratio of adrenaline to total Met-enkephalin immunoreactivity was 97. This study is in accord with immunocytochemical observations which have indicated that enkephalins are located in adrenergic and not in the noradrenergic cells in the bovine adrenal medulla.
In cat hypoglossal motoneurons after axotomy the synaptic efficacy of inhibitory synapses made by the lingual nerve afferent fibers was studied. The amplitude of the short- and the long-lasting inhibitory postsynaptic potential produced in tongue protruder motoneurons 24 days after axotomy by stimulation of the lingual nerve was significantly reduced in size as compared with the control on the unoperated side. In most protruder motoneurons 40 days after axotomy a large excitatory postsynaptic potential and a spike was produced by stimulation of either the ipsilateral or the contralateral lingual nerve. We have demonstrated that the decline of synaptic efficacy of inhibitory synapses for the short-lasting inhibitory postsynaptic potential was more prominent than that for the long-lasting inhibitory potential in the motoneuron 24 days after axotomy. After the cut axons of protruder motoneurons were re-united to tongue muscles, we have demonstrated that the decline of synaptic efficacy of inhibitory synapses for the short-lasting inhibitory postsynaptic potential was less prominent than that in axotomized protruder motoneurons.
The speed of execution of complex movements depends on both the local, differential properties of the trajectory and on some of its more global metric parameters. The effects of these global factors were studied in free, writing-like movements with either piece-wise constant, or regularly changing curvature. It is demonstrated that the tangential velocity of the pen's tip is tightly correlated, through a power function, with the total linear extent of the trajectory (perimeter). Thus, a strong tendency exists to keep the execution time of these complex trajectories independent of the movement size (isochrony). Furthermore, it is shown that the average tangential velocity over identifiable segments of the trajectory also depends on the corresponding average curvature. The implications of these results vis--vis the central representation and planning of movements are discussed.
Contraversive turning movements of the head were elicited in alert cats by unilateral electrical stimulation of the entopeduncular nucleus. To determine the relative functional importance of ascending and descending pathways activated by the stimulation, the animals were submitted to thalamocortical or midbrain lesions and to combinations of the two lesions interrupting the pathways. Head turning was hindered considerably only after combinations of the two lesions and not after either lesion alone. Taking into account the results of previous studies, showing that most efferent fibers of the entopeduncular nucleus branch to the thalamus and to the midbrain, it is concluded that not only one but two main efferent pathways, corresponding to each branch, are used by the entopeduncular nucleus to control motoneurons, each pathway carrying enough redundant information to mediate head turning.
The input-output relations of the rabbit accessory olfactory bulb were studied by intra- and extracellular single unit recordings following electrical stimulation of the vomeronasal nerves, the lateral olfactory tract and the corticomedial amygdala. Cellular activity of accessory bulb mitral cells evoked by stimulation of the vomeronasal nerves consisted of a brief excitation with a latency of 16 ms. This initial response was followed by a period of reduced firing probability which was due to an inhibitory postsynaptic potential. In many cases this secondary response was followed by a second excitatory postsynaptic potential on which action potentials were generated at higher stimulus intensities. Deeper cells in the granule cell layer responded with a long latency, long duration, excitation, often consisting of bursts of 2-3 spikes. The majority of mitral cells were antidromically invaded by amygdala stimulation. The latencies of the antidromic spikes showed a wide range of variation (12-80 ms). Due to this great variation in antidromic latency the inhibitory postsynaptic potential following the antidromic action potential was rather modest but prolonged in duration. In many cases the onset of the inhibitory postsynaptic potential preceded the antidromic response. The majority of cells did not respond to lateral olfactory tract stimulation. Only 10% of the tested cells were invaded antidromically by stimulation at this site. These neurons were also driven antidromically by amygdala stimulation. We conclude that, although the physiological characteristics of mitral cells of the main and accessory olfactory bulb are very similar, there are important differences. The efferent fibres of the accessory bulb conduct at very slow and variable rates and project directly to the corticomedial amygdala.
Following electrical stimulation of the vomeronasal nerves, the primary olfactory nerves, the lateral olfactory tract and the corticomedial amygdala, we have made a study of evoked potentials in the rabbit accessory olfactory bulb. Vomeronasal nerve stimulation evoked a complex field potential consisting of a compound action potential followed by 4 negative waves (N1, N2, N3, N4). In contrast to the field potential elicited in the main olfactory bulb following primary olfactory nerve stimulation, there was either no evoked wave or only a weak positive component of the field in the accessory bulb. Amygdala stimulation caused a long latency, long duration negative-positive dipolar field potential in the accessory olfactory bulb. Both antidromic and orthodromic field potentials showed sign reversal when the electrode penetrated the bulb at a point corresponding to the lower border of the mitral cell band. Stimulation of the lateral olfactory tract elicited a weak, short-latency wave which did not show any sign reversal when the electrode was lowered into the accessory bulb. This wave was presumably due to fibres arising in the main bulb and projecting through the accessory bulb into the lateral olfactory tract. Electrical stimulation of the primary olfactory nerves did not induce any response in the accessory bulb neither did vomeronasal nerve stimulation evoke a response in the main olfactory bulb. The origin of these potential fields is discussed and it is concluded that the synaptic organization of the accessory olfactory bulb resembles that of the main olfactory bulb in lower vertebrates. There is no detectable communication between the two olfactory systems.
The effects of the microiontophoretic application of five different peptides (cholecystokinin octapeptide sulfated form, cholecystokinin octapeptide non-sulfated form, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, angiotensin-II and substance P) on cortical neurons were studied in rats anaesthetized with urethane. Vertical electrode penetrations were made in the first somatic sensory cortex and the laminar position of the neurons determined by the reconstruction of the tracks based on extracellular dye deposits. The first type of effect observed was an excitation of some cortical neurons. These neurons were mostly found in infragranular layers, specially in layer Vb. Pyramidal tract neurons were more often excited by peptides than the cortical population taken as a whole. Substance P excited the largest percentage of neurons, followed by vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and cholecystokinin octapeptide sulfated form, whereas angiotensin II and cholecystokinin octapeptide non-sulfated form were the least potent in terms of frequency of neurons excited as well as of amplitude of the responses. The vast majority of the neurons excited by a peptide could also be excited by acetylcholine. A second and independent effect of peptides was observed: the neuronal excitation induced by acetylcholine could be depressed by the simultaneous application of peptide. This depressing effect was also the most frequently observed with substance P, followed by cholecystokinin and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide.
Six lamina III interneurones of the cat spinal cord were impaled and stained with intracellular injections of horseradish peroxidase. The responses of these neurones varied considerably: 1 neurone responded to light brushing of its receptive field, whilst 4 cells were excited by strong pressure. Morphologically, they were also a heterogeneous population. Two neurones had rostro-caudally orientated dendritic arbors that were confined to the lamina, while four of the cells were vertically orientated and possessed dendrites that crossed lamina boundaries. There was no correlation between the physiological characteristics of a neurone and its morphology. Three of the vertically orientated neurones were examined ultrastructurally. The first of these cells received several types of synaptic terminal which were distributed in an organised pattern over the entire dendritic tree. This neurone possessed recurrent dendrites which participated in a variety of complex synaptic arrangements. The second neurone also participated in a variety of synaptic arrangements, including glomeruli in lamina II, and received contacts from vesicle-containing dendrites. It gave rise to collateral axons which arborized in lamina II and formed boutons which formed synapses with dendrites. The third cell possessed varicose dendrites which were probably artifactual. It is concluded that lamina III interneurones are a heterogeneous population by electrophysiological, morphological and ultrastructural criteria. They differ in many respects from lamina II neurones and from the cells of origin of ascending systems. The diversity of their inputs and their variation in morphology suggests that they receive input from a variety of primary afferent fibres and dorsal horn neurones and hence may integrate information from these sources.
Neonatal administration of 6-hydroxydopamine to rat pups was used to deplete brain noradrenaline in the locus coeruleus projection system to less than 5% of normal and the response to barbiturate and non-barbiturate anaesthetics examined. The sleeping time in response to administration of thiopentone, pentobarbitone, methohexitone or hexobarbitone was markedly increased in 6-hydroxydopamine-treated rats, as it was for the non-barbiturates chloral hydrate and diisopropylphenol. The sleeping time for other non-barbiturates such as althesin, ketamine and ethyl carbamate (urethane) was not affected in noradrenaline-depleted rats. Similarly, an index of the evoked potential, recorded in the primary somatosensory cortex to supramaximal electrical stimulation of the forepaw, decreased more markedly with increasing doses of thiopentone in 6-hydroxydopamine-treated rats than in controls. Potentiation of the effect of diisopropylphenol on the evoked cortical response was also seen in noradrenaline-depleted rats while the effect of althesin did not differ. It is suggested that brain noradrenaline pathways originating from the locus coeruleus may play an important role in the duration and depth of anaesthesia resulting from barbiturate and some related agents.
Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide nerve processes and cell bodies were identified by electron microscopic immunocytochemistry in the rat small intestine. Labeled nerve processes were numerous in the inner circular smooth muscle coat and mainly in the mucosa, but were absent in the longitudinal muscle layer. Submucosal blood vessels were often surrounded by immunoreactive vasoactive intestinal polypeptide positive nerves, in close associations (distance less than 40 mn) to blood vessel basement membranes and to smooth muscle cells. In the ganglia of the myenteric and submucous plexuses, labeled fibers surrounded unstained neural cell bodies. The synaptic vesicles of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide positive terminals were 35-40 nm in diameter and some dense core vesicles (80-120 nm in diameter) were also observed in the same profiles. These observations suggest that vasoactive intestinal polypeptide nerves may participate in regulating smooth muscle activity and local blood flow in the small intestine.
The overall distribution of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP)-like immunoreactivity on the wall of the cerebral arteries, including its 3-dimensional profile, was investigated by means of the indirect immunofluorescence method using flat-mounts. VIP-immunoreactive fibers run spirally on the wall of the cerebral arteries. On the wall of the large arteries, such as the vertebral artery, basilar artery, internal carotid artery, within and/or without the circle of Willis, posterior and anterior communicating arteries, proximal parts of anterior, mid and posterior cerebral arteries, these fibers are richly distributed and show a dense grid-like appearance. The highest density was identified on the wall of the anterior cerebral artery, internal carotid artery and anterior communicating artery, while the lowest density was on the posterior communicating artery. On the other hand, on the walls of the branches of these arteries or along distal parts of the anterior, mid and posterior cerebral arteries, the number of VIP-immunoreactive fibers decreased markedly.
Experiments were performed to investigate the effects of morphine and [D-Ala2, D-Leu5]enkephalin on supraoptic cells in hypothalamic slices in vitro. To ensure the presence of a steady background activity, the cells were recorded with glutamate-filled glass microelectrodes and the level of activity was controlled by selecting a suitable retaining current (0.1-9.8 nA). Under these conditions, supraoptic cells showed either the non-phasic (65%) or phasic (35%) firing pattern previously associated with oxytocin or vasopressin cells, respectively. During perifusion of the slice with morphine (10 microM), 10 out of 17 non-phasic supraoptic cells were profoundly inhibited, five cells showed no response and the remaining 2 cells were excited. Similarly with [D-Ala2, D-Leu5]enkephalin (10 microM), 11 out of 15 non-phasic cells were inhibited, 3 cells showed no response and 1 cell was excited. The inhibition produced by morphine or [D-Ala2, D-Leu5]enkephalin could be reversed by concomitant application of naloxone (10 microM). In contrast to the profound effects seen in the non-phasic cells, only 1 out of 13 phasic cells tested with either morphine or [D-Ala2, D-Leu5]enkephalin was inhibited. The remaining 12 phasic cells showed no change in either their overall firing rate or pattern of activity during opiate perifusion. These results provide further evidence that, in addition to their inhibitory effects within the posterior pituitary, opiates can directly suppress the electrical activity of magnocellular neurosecretory cells at the level of the hypothalamus. However, the absence of an opiate effect on the phasic cells might suggest that the action of opioid peptides within the hypothalamus would be exerted predominantly on the oxytocin, rather than the vasopressin cells.
The preovulatory surge of luteinizing hormone reaches a maximum at 18.00 h on the day of pro-oestrus in female rats maintained with regular lighting from 06.00 to 20.00 h. This surge is initiated by a discharge of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone into hypophysial portal blood. In this study, drugs which affect catecholamine-mediated neurotransmission were administered on the day of pro-oestrus and the effects on serum concentrations of luteinizing hormone and on subsequent ovulation were observed. alpha-Methyl-p-tyrosine, diethyldithiocarbamate and SKF 64139 inhibit catecholamine synthesis at the level of tyrosine hydroxylase, dopamine beta-hydroxylase and phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase, respectively. Although alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine suppressed ovulation, it had a negligible effect on the incidence of the preovulatory surge. In contrast, the various treatments with diethyldithiocarbamate and SKF 64139 resulted in a minimal occurrence of the 18.00 h surge; at relatively low doses, however, these drugs frequently elicited a surge at 22.00 or 24.00 h which invariably resulted in ovulation. The failure of the surge after diethyldithiocarbamate or SKF 64139 was not associated with a loss of pituitary sensitivity to luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone. In terms of the hypothalamic concentration of dopamine, noradrenaline, adrenaline and 5-hydroxytryptamine at 18.00 h on pro-oestrus, the only common effect of diethyldithiocarbamate and SKF 64139, given in a dose which blocks the surge, was a severe depletion of adrenaline; alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine failed to produce this effect despite inducing a marked depression of dopamine and a moderate loss of noradrenaline. Neither the increase in hypothalamic dopamine after diethyldithiocarbamate, nor the alpha 2 receptor blocking properties of SKF 64139 appear to be relevant in this context since injections of L-dopa or piperoxane, an alpha 2 receptor antagonist, were without effect on the surge or ovulation. The failure of the surge after prazosin, an alpha 1 receptor antagonist, indicates that the function of adrenaline may be mediated postsynaptically by alpha 1 receptors. Clonidine, an alpha 2 receptor agonist which reduces the turnover rate of hypothalamic adrenaline, had effects of the surge and ovulation which were comparable to those of diethyldithiocarbamate and SKF 64139, the relatively low doses causing some of the surges to occur at 24.00 instead of 18.00 h and higher doses suppressing the surge at both times and thus preventing ovulation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The spinal and retinal projections to the turtle thalamus were studied using the autoradiographic tracing technique. Particular attention is given to the regions receiving both spinal and retinal projections: the ovalis complex and a perirotundal stripe. Spinal and retinal projections do not overlap significantly in either of these regions. In the perirotundal stripe there appears to be little likelihood of convergence of these projections on single neurons. In the ovalis complex, the most densely and the most consistently innervated thalamic region, however, the respective spinal and retinal target areas are located immediately adjacent to each other and low order somatosensory and visual projections may converge on single neurons with dendrites extending into both the spinal and retinal terminal arborizations. The ovalis complex in the turtle may be compared with the ventral part of the mammalian lateral geniculate nucleus. Both these nuclei receive spinal and retinal projections and both, reportedly, do not project to the telencephalon. The findings are discussed in relation to the possible evolution of the specific thalamic sensory nuclei in higher mammals as well as to the prosencephalic processing of somatosensory and visual information in turtles and mammals.
A double-labeling method which employed the injection and subsequent retrograde transport of two different fluorescent dyes was utilized to investigate the possibility that some pontocerebellar neurons might give rise to collateral branches which distributed to more than one lobule of the contralateral lateral cerebellar hemisphere (intrahemispheric branching) or bilaterally to homotopic or heterotopic lobules in both lateral hemispheres (interhemispheric branching). With regard to intrahemispheric branching, these studies revealed the largest number of double-labeled neurons when the dye injections involved a combination of crus I and the paraflocculus. A considerable number of double-labeled cells were also observed in simplex-crus II cases while a modest number were noted in crus I-paramedian and simplex-paramedian combinations. Evidence for interhemispheric branching was also apparent but the number of double-labeled cells was generally less than that observed in the intrahemispheric experiments. Following bilateral injections, a modest number of double-labeled cells was noted with simplex-simplex and crus I-Crus I homotopic injections and crus II-paramedian heterotopic combinations. In contrast to those cases with unilateral injections, not all bilateral injection combinations produced double-labeling, the most conspicuous in this regard being homotopic and heterotopic injections involving the paraflocculus. Overall, the population of double-labeled cells included many varieties of pontine neurons ranging from small, spindle-shaped to large multipolar. No clear topographic patterns emerged when the location or distribution of either intrahemispheric or interhemispheric double-labeled cells was compared. It was noted, however, that most double-labeled neurons were situated in zones of overlap that occurred between single-labeled neurons projecting to one or the other of the injected lobules. Conversely, in some situations, sharp borders were maintained between adjacent groups of single-labeled neurons. These studies have demonstrated the existence of both intrahemispheric and interhemispheric branching in the pontocerebellar system. The interhemispheric category included pontine neurons which distributed bilaterally to either homotopic or heterotopic lobules in each hemisphere. The overall distribution pattern of double-labeled pontine neurons, those whose axons distribute to more than one hemispheral lobule, is extremely complex and, although some trends were noted, no system-wide topographic organization was apparent. The category of double-labeled neurons included a wide variety of shapes and sizes ranging from the smallest to the largest types of pontine neurons. Most double-labeled neurons were intermixed with single-labeled pontine cells which projected to one or the other of the two injected lobules.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The origins and pathways of substance P-containing fibers in the lateral lemniscus and lateral parabrachial area of the rat were investigated by means of the indirect immunofluorescence technique. Following the placement of various knife cuts or lesions, the following could be concluded: (1) The cells of origin of substance P-containing fibers in the lateral lemniscus and lateral parabrachial area are localized in the ventral reticular formation of the rhombencephalon from the level of P2.8 to P7.0 in the atlas of Palkovits and Jacobowitz; (2) The fibers from these origins pass the ventral reticular formation of the rhombencephalon to form a dense bundle; (3) the fibers turn dorsally at the mid-rhombencephalon junction to reach the lateral lemniscus and lateral parabrachial area. The present study demonstrates the linking of the functions of the parabrachial area and lateral lemniscus via substance P innervation.
Using the indirect immunofluorescence method, the distribution of substance P-like-immunoreactivity was studied in spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia of 25 human foetuses ranging from 12 to 29 weeks of gestational age. The spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia of three infants (1 day-, 2 and 4 month-old) were also investigated as a post-natal reference. On the whole, the substance P distribution patterns seen in infants were already visible throughout most of foetal life. The highest density of substance P-like-immunoreactive fibres was localized over the superficial layers of the dorsal grey horn. Punctiform immunofluorescence was often found over the white matter especially in the funiculi dorsalis et lateralis. In the ventral horn, substance P immunoreactive fibres were few and far between in the grey matter and were only detected from foetal stage 16 weeks. In addition, longitudino-frontal sections through the dorsal regions revealed repetitive arrangements of substance P-like-immunoreactive fibres along the whole spinal cord. In dorsal root ganglia only a few immunoreactive cells were observed. These findings demonstrate the wide and early occurrence of substance P-like-immunoreactivity in the human foetus spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia. They suggest that the development of the substance P neuronal system begins early in ontogenesis and is regionally differentiated.
Antisera to substance P, somatostatin and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide were produced in rabbits and used to establish radioimmunoassays. The specificities and sensitivities of the assays were characterised before using them to measure the levels of these peptides in the paravertebral sympathetic ganglia and spinal sensory ganglia of embryonic chicks. The immunoreactive materials in the developing ganglia were shown to be identical with the peptides by the criterion of co-elution on reverse-phase high performance liquid chromatography. The levels of the peptides varied independently during the developmental period studied between day 8 and hatching at day 20 of incubation. Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide was first detectable on day 12 in the sympathetic ganglia and the levels increased through to hatching, at which time it first became detectable in the sensory ganglia. In contrast, substance P and somatostatin were detectable in both sensory and sympathetic ganglia throughout the period studied: the content of substance P increased up to day 18 after which time it declined, and somatostatin was present initially (day 8) at high levels before rapidly declining to a minimum at day 10 and then slowly increasing again, in parallel with the general growth of the ganglia, reflected by their protein contents. The differential changes in levels of substance P, somatostatin and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide during development indicates that different regulatory mechanisms are responsible for the ontogenesis of individual peptide phenotypes in the peripheral nervous system.

The development of the subject of neurology has been stated with special regard to the department of neurology of the university of Rostock--from the time when Sayk took the professorship 22 years ago. The specialization beginning in this period before all concerns the scope of diagnostics (neuroradiology, neuro-electrodiagnostics, cerebrospinal fluid--resp. laboratory diagnostics) and--arising from the requirements of clinical neurology--the concentration upon distinct centres of scientific activities. Beside the representation of the tasks of work are given data about several results of research in the traditional field of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF cytology) and the branch of neuroimmunology (cell-mediated immunity) in Rostock. Some questions of basic research and special subjects as well as the actual trends--relevant for neurology--are presented.


The respiratory center has been studied as an example of the neural center organization. This organization is presented by a number of cellular populations, each of them consisting of several neuronal groups (components of the populations) of various types. These groups are considered as relatively autonomic sets of various neuronal categories, where 1-5 large efferent (phase) neurons are present as a central link. Analyzing the spatial arrangement and functional interrelations of the neurons in the group, it is possible to conclude that the groups revealed (respirons) are functional units of neuronal activity. Applying the theory of functional system (P. K. Anokhin) for analyzing connections between the neurons in the group and the afferent impulsation that gets into action sphere of the group, it is possible to formulate certain criteria on integrity and a relative functional independence of the neuronal groups as working units of neuronal activity, in which the reticular component of the groups as widely represented in all parts of the CNS, a suggestion is made that the respirons are the natural invariant of the structure when the cerebral function is reorganized.

A software package is described to reconstruct three-dimensional pictures in true perspective from a series of parallel sections using a low-cost computer system (Apple II plus). Data sampling via a graphic tablet and graphical output on the monitor screen or a digital plotter are assigned to different programs under control of a menu program. The number of data representing the object under study is unlimited. Originally written in BASIC, the programs were translated to machine language. As an application of the package, reconstructions of an identified large interneuron of the locust brain are presented.


The K+:Na+ selectivities of double-barrelled microelectrodes employing either of two commercially available liquid ion exchangers for K+ (Corning 477317 and Orion) have been measured using several calibration methods. Microelectrodes employing the Orion exchanger were found to be much less selective than those based on Corning 477317.
A new method is described for the recording and discrimination of extracellular action potentials in CNS regions with high cellular packing density or where there is intrinsic variation in action potential amplitude during burst discharge. The method is based on the principle that cells with different ratios of distances from two electrode tips will have different spike-amplitude ratios when recorded on two channels. The two channel amplitude ratio will remain constant regardless of intrinsic variation in the absolute amplitude of the signals. The method has been applied to the rat hippocampal formation, from which up to 5 units have been simultaneously isolated. The construction of the electrodes is simple, relatively fast, and reliable, and their low tip impedances result in excellent signal to noise characteristics.
Statistical analysis of the frequencies of observed branching patterns of neuronal arborescences is an important means of studying neuronal growth and of characterizing axonal or dendritic populations. We recently derived simple formulae for the exact probabilities of occurrence of types of neuronal trees for both segmental and terminal growth. Additionally, the existence of a natural ordering of the neuronal tree types enables the application of the Kolmogorov goodness-of-fit test. In the present report it is illustrated how these facilities can be incorporated in the analysis of neuronal arborizations. Interesting features are that very large neuronal arborizations can be analyzed completely and that only small sample sizes are required for the estimation of the critical level corresponding to the growth hypothesis. Further, it is indicated how populations of neuronal tree structures may be compared with each other without reference to a particular growth theory.
Most contemporary neuron tracing systems are semi-automatic; that is, an operator follows neuron branches in a microscope or on a data tablet and instructs a computer when to record a spatial sample. A list of such samples is then used to generate a display of the neuron and to summarize statistically its structure. The tracing is tedious, and the operator must make subjective decisions about point types, thus biasing the results. A fully automatic system in which the computer views the image through a television digitizing system has been constructed. The computer follows the fibers and recognizes branchpoints and fiber endings. The coordinates, types of points, and fiber diameters are recorded in computer memory. An operator is required only to start the tracing of a fiber and to help the computer when it becomes &quot;confused&quot;. The results are mixed. The computer can follow fibers quite successfully and can determine branches and endings with some success, but the procedure is an order of magnitude more slow than that of a skilled operator using a well-designed semi-automatic system.

The sites of termination of the primate spinothalamic tract have been reinvestigated using the anterograde transport of wheatgerm agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase. Monkeys which received an injection of the conjugate at the spinal cervical level (C7-C8) displayed a &quot;patchy&quot; pattern of labelling in the coronal plane in the ventral posterior lateral and caudal ventrolateral nucleus. In three dimensional reconstructions this labelling appeared to be rod-like in shape. A more homogeneous pattern of labelling was present in parts of the central lateral, posterior, suprageniculate, limitans, submedius, medial dorsal, paracentral, central medial, reuniens and periventricular nucleus. Lumbar injections (L2-L3) produced a similar although less intense pattern of labelling with only the ventral posterior lateral and ventrolateral nuclei displaying an obvious topological organization. Comparison of these results with previous physiological and pharmacological reports suggests several morphological-functional correlations: first, that both the discriminative and motivational/arousal aspects of spinothalamic tract function, associated with the lateral and medial thalamic nuclei, respectively, may be conveyed by direct spinothalamic tract projections. In support of this hypothesis medial spinothalamic tract termination sites receive a homogeneous input which does not have an obvious topographical organization, whereas lateral spinothalamic tract termination sites receive a &quot;patchy&quot; pattern of terminals which are topographically organized; second, that the patchy pattern of labelling observed in the coronal plane in the lateral thalamus corresponds to a &quot;rodlike&quot; pattern of labelling in three dimensions. This &quot;rodlike&quot; pattern of labelling has previously been observed for medial lemniscal projections to the thalamus and has been postulated to be the thalamic equivalent of cortical &quot;columns&quot;; third, that there appears to be a tight overlap between spinothalamic tract terminals and opiate receptor binding in some medial but not lateral thalamic nuclei. Such an overlap may be indicative of a pharmacological difference in the types of spinothalamic tract inputs which could be modulated by opiates at the thalamic level.
Purified bovine adrenal chromaffin granule &quot;ghosts&quot; (resealed membranes) accumulate nucleotides and phosphoenolpyruvate in a temperature-dependent process. Equilibration takes several hours, the compounds being accumulated to not more than twice their concentration in the medium. This uptake occurs primarily by a non-saturable diffusion process, and rates and extents show little dependence on membrane energization. Uptake rates are inhibited less than 50% by compounds that discharge the &quot;ghost&quot; membrane potential, or by atractylate or low concentrations of Cibacron Blue. The data gave little support to the theory that chromaffin granules have a membrane potential-dependent adenine nucleotide transport process and that nucleotides are in equilibrium with the positive-inside potential across the granule membrane.
The left superior cervical ganglion of 3-day-old rats was subjected to preganglionic nerve division, ganglionectomy, or sham operation, while the right ganglion was left intact. Thirty days later, both the left and the right ganglia were perfusion-fixed and examined for weight and volume, as well as for the number and the density of the principal nerve cells and the non-neuronal cells. The small intensely fluorescent cells were counted from a separate set of freeze-dried ganglia. Unilateral preganglionic nerve division caused in the left operated side a significant loss of ganglion weight and volume due to a decreased number of non-neuronal cells, while no significant changes occurred in the right intact ganglion. Unilateral left ganglionectomy caused a significant increase in the mean ganglion weight and in the number and the density of the non-neuronal cells in the right intact ganglion, while the number and the density of the principal nerve cells and the small intensely fluorescent cells were not affected by this operation. It is suggested that normal development of the ganglionic satellite cells requires the presence of normally innervated principal cells. Furthermore, unilateral ganglionectomy induces a greater than normal proliferation of the satellite cells contralaterally, possibly by causing an increase in the activity of the contralateral ganglion.
The structure of the tendon organs was studied in the shank muscles of adult rats both under the light- and electron-microscope. The rat tendon organs measure on the average about 500 microns in length and 60 microns in diameter. Most tendon organs are surrounded by muscle fibres and their short individual tendons, and insert into the aponeuroses or intramuscular tendons. Each tendon organ consists of a neurotendinous core composed of collagen bundles that represent tendons of 5-10 muscle fibres; it is innervated by a Ib sensory fibre that branches and terminates among the loose collagen fascicles of the core. Sensory terminals are oriented both transversely and longitudinally. Their position and relation to collagen bundles indicate that, during tendon organ activation, the terminals are probably depolarized both by lateral compression and elongation. The core is enclosed in a capsule that consists of about 5 lamellar layers of capsular cells and closely resembles the perineurium. The majority of the tendon organs also comprise a purely tendinous compartment in the lumen or within the capsular wall. These tendinous components remain separated from the neurotendinous core and do not come into contact with axon terminals. The collagen fibrils of the tendinous compartments are densely packed and larger in diameter than those of the neurotendinous core. The sensory terminals of the tendon organ lie in series with those muscle fibres and collagen bundles that constitute the neurotendinous core, but they are in parallel with the purely tendinous tendon organ components and their respective muscle fibres. Thus, one tendon organ may comprise both in series and in parallel components, which is apparently reflected in its function. It is suggested that the purely tendinous tendon organ compartments account for the in-parallel effects upon the function of tendon organs described in some recent electrophysiological studies.
Short- and long-term influences of various neonatal hormonal manipulations were assessed in the mouse amygdala with respect to alpha-bungarotoxin binding capacity, a possible parameter for cholinergic receptor integrity and function. To estimate the short-term effects, [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin binding to the tissue homogenate obtained from the posterior corticomedial amygdala was determined by a filtration assay using mice killed at 14 days post partum. The amygdaloid tissue from the normal male had a greater binding capacity for [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin than that from the normal female. However, castration of the male on the day of birth decreased the binding down to the female's level. A treatment of the female with either 250 micrograms testosterone propionate or 10 micrograms estradiol benzoate on days 1, 3, 5 and 7 increased the binding up to the male's level, although similar neonatal administration of 250 micrograms 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone was ineffective. The long-term effects of neonatal hormonal manipulations were examined with 77-day-old mice which had been gonadectomized for 49 days. A quantitative light-microscopic autoradiography for [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin binding showed that specific grain density over the nucleus amygdaloideus medialis posterior of the androgenized female exceeded that of the female without neonatal hormone treatment. These observations provide further evidence that neonatal sex steroids play a determinate role in the sexual differentiation of the brain by exerting an organizational influence on developing cholinergic binding sites in the amygdala.
The antidromic activation of facial nucleus montoneurones has been studied in acute experiments on cats by means of extra- and intracellular recording techniques. Time and amplitude characteristics of separate components of the antidromic action potential and the after--potentials accompanying it have been analyzed. A correlation is found between the duration of the falling phase of the soma-dendritic component of the action potential, the duration of its after-hyperpolarization and impulse conduction time in the axon. The dendritic origin of after-depolarizing processes is shown. It is concluded that, since there is no recurrent collateral pathway in facial motoneurones, the modulating effect of spike after-potentials on the proper excitability of facial motoneurones acquires great functional significance.
