Clonidine and related imidazoline compounds bind to alpha 2-adrenergic as well as to newly described non-adrenergic imidazole/imidazoline receptors in brain and peripheral tissues. The present study was undertaken to identify the signal transduction mechanism coupled to this new class of receptors (imidazole receptors) using bovine adrenal chromaffin cells. Clonidine did not modify the basal or forskolin-stimulated production of cyclic AMP (cAMP), suggesting the absence of functionally active alpha 2-adrenergic receptors in adrenal chromaffin cells. Clonidine also failed to modify the basal and GTP gamma S- or carbachol-stimulated increase in phosphoinositide hydrolysis. However, clonidine increased significantly the production of cyclic GMP (cGMP) as well as the uptake of 45Ca2+. The cGMP response to clonidine was slower (peak at 15 min) and smaller (only about 50% over control) than the response to acetylcholine and was not shared by other agents that bind to imidazole receptors. In contrast, all agents that bind to imidazole receptors increased the influx of 45Ca2+ into chromaffin cells. It is concluded that (a) alpha 2-adrenergic and imidazole receptors are functionally distinct and linked to different signal transduction mechanisms; (b) the classical G-protein coupled soluble second messenger systems are not coupled to imidazole receptors; (c) clonidine may increase cGMP by a non-receptor-mediated intracellular action; and (d) imidazole receptors may regulate intracellular calcium levels through an ion regulating system that may be different from calcium channels.
1-Aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC) is a high affinity ligand at strychnine-insensitive glycine receptors that exhibits partial agonist properties in both biochemical and electrophysiological measures. While ACPC was reported active in animal models commonly used to evaluate potential antidepressants (forced swim) and anxiolytics (plus-maze), the zwitterionic character of this compound could limit both penetration into the central nervous system and oral availability. The present experiments were designed to determine the duration of action of ACPC, its efficacy following oral administration, and to compare these effects with the more lipophilic ACPC methyl ester. Parenterally and orally administered ACPC were equipotent in reducing immobility in the forced swim test, an action manifested for at least 6 h. Both orally and parenterally administered ACPC methyl ester were approximately 3.3-fold more potent than ACPC in the forced swim test. In the elevated plus-maze, both ACPC and ACPC methyl ester were active for 1-2 h after parenteral administration. These findings suggest that 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylates may constitute a novel class of antidepressant/anxiolytic agents.
In 3 of 40 MELAS patients, a new common mutation, a T-to-C transition at nucleotide position 3271 in the mitochondrial tRNA(Leu(UUR] gene was recognized and was very near to the most common mutation site at 3243. With a simple detection method using polymerase chain reaction with a mismatch primer, none of 46 patients with other mitochondrial diseases and 50 controls had this mutation.
A cDNA clone encoding a protein with high homology to the beta-subunit of the rabbit skeletal muscle dihydropyridine-sensitive calcium channel was isolated from a rat brain cDNA library. This rat brain beta-subunit cDNA hybridizes to a 3.4 kb message that is expressed in high levels in the cerebral hemispheres and hippocampus but is significantly reduced in cerebellum. The open reading frame encodes 597 amino acids with a predicted mass of 65 679 Da which is 82% homologous with the skeletal muscle beta-subunit. The brain cDNA encodes a unique 153 amino acid C-terminus and predicts the absence of a muscle-specific 50 amino acid internal segment. It also encodes numerous consensus phosphorylation sites suggesting a role in calcium channel regulation. The corresponding human beta-subunit gene was localized to chromosome 17. Hence the encoded brain beta-subunit, which has a primary structure highly similar to its isoform in skeletal muscle, may have a comparable role as an integral regulatory component of a neuronal calcium channel.
Insulin-like growth factor II (IGF-II) and mannose 6-phosphate (man-6-P) bind to distinct sites on the same receptor. In the present study, we examined the effects of man-6-P on the growth promoting effects of IGF-II on SH-SY5Y cultured human neuroblastoma cells. Man-6-P alone increased cell number and neurite outgrowth by approximately 50%; as previously observed, IGF-II increased cell number and neurite outgrowth by approximately 110 and 30%, respectively. However, when cells were grown in the presence of both ligands, cell number increased by 330% and neurite outgrowth by 130%. These results suggest that man-6-P can potentiate the known growth promoting effects of IGF-II on human neuroblastoma cells. Furthermore, they indicate that the IGF-II/man-6-P receptor may serve as a means of integrating distinct growth promoting signals in neuronal cells.
To determine whether the sympathoexcitatory projection from the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVL) to the sympathetic intermediolateral nucleus (IML) of the spinal cord might use glutamate as an excitatory transmitter, we performed a dual-label, transport and immunocytochemical ultrastructural study. Axon terminals within the IML were examined to determine whether anterogradely transported Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin (PHA-L) following injections into the RVL, was colocalized with glutamate immunoreactivity using an antibody to hemocyanin-conjugated L-glutamate (Hepler et al., J. Histochem. Cytochem., 36 (1988) 13-22). Transported PHA-L was visualized with the peroxidase-antiperoxidase technique while glutamate-like immunoreactivity was localized within the same section of the thoracic spinal cord with immunoautoradiography. By light microscopy, PHA-L immunoreactivity was found within a plexus of fine fibers and varicose processes localized to the IML. Silver grains indicative of glutamate immunoreactivity were concentrated over the IML and also over the superficial layers of the dorsal horn. Electron microscopic analysis revealed PHA-L immunoreactivity in axons and axon terminals within the IML. They ranged in diameter from 0.5 to 2.0 microns, contained numerous small clear and 0-3 large, dense-core vesicles, and formed primarily asymmetric synaptic contacts on small dendrites of IML neurons. Some of the PHA-L immunoreactive terminals making asymmetric (excitatory) synaptic contacts on the small dendrites of IML neurons also contained glutamate-like immunoreactivity. We conclude that at least a portion of the input to the IML from the RVL uses glutamate as its transmitter.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The effects of a single systemic injection of reserpine on c-fos proto-oncogene expression in catecholaminergic neurons of the rat brainstem were studied by immunohistochemistry for Fos proteins (Fos). In control rats, a few Fos immunoreactive neuronal nuclei were observed in the tectum and mesencephalic central gray. Within hours after drug injection, a substantial number of brainstem neurons stained intensely for Fos. The staining was maximal at 6 h and returned to control levels within 24 h. Double-immunohistochemical staining with antibodies to tyrosine hydroxylase revealed that in all noradrenergic (NA) neuron subgroups except the A2 group, the majority of NA neurons stained for Fos. Most adrenergic neurons were also labeled. In contrast, aside from some cells in the ventral tegmental area, reserpine did not induce Fos immunoreactivity in dopaminergic neurons. Numerous non-catecholaminergic neurons were intensely stained with Fos in the substantia nigra pars reticulata, ventral tegmental area, mesencephalic central gray, pontine nuclei and tectum. A small number of Fos immunoreactive neurons was also observed in raphe nuclei. Injection of saline (i.p.) resulted in a moderate increase in Fos immunoreactivity in the locus ceruleus, in A1/C1 neurons and in the mesencephalic central gray. The results demonstrate that acute reserpine treatment induces Fos expression in distinct populations of brainstem neurons, comprising both catecholaminergic and non-catecholaminergic neurons. Thus, induction of Fos by reserpine does not coincide with the site of action of this drug. The distribution of Fos immunoreactive NA neurons after reserpine treatment is comparable to that reported after application of stressful stimuli.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The neuroanatomical localization of kappa opioid receptors in rat and guinea pig brain was determined by quantitative in vitro receptor autoradiography. Our study shows striking differences in kappa 1 and kappa 2 receptor distributions both between species and within each species. In the rat brain, kappa 1 sites (labeled by [3H]U-69,593) are of low density and confined to a small number of structures. These include the claustrum, endopiriform nucleus, caudate putamen, nucleus accumbens, midline nuclear group of the thalamus, superficial grey layer of the superior colliculus, and central grey. kappa 2 sites (labeled by [3H]ethylketocyclazocine or [3H]bremazocine under conditions in which mu, delta, and kappa 1 binding was suppressed) are more widely distributed throughout all levels of rat brain. kappa 2 sites occur at high density in the caudate putamen, nucleus accumbens, amygdala, thalamus, and interpeduncular nuclei. In guinea pig brain, kappa 1 sites predominate and are of high density in layers I and VI of the neocortex, claustrum, endopiriform nucleus, caudate putamen, nucleus accumbens, and molecular layer of the cerebellum. As in rat brain, kappa 2 sites in guinea pig are more uniformly and widely distributed throughout the brain than are kappa 1 sites. The highest density of kappa 2 sites is in the dorsal parabrachial nucleus, interpeduncular nuclei, mammillary nuclei, and posterior thalamic nuclei. Results from this study demonstrate important interspecies differences in the distribution of kappa 1 and kappa 2 opioid receptors.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The mechanisms by which neuropeptide Y (NPY) mediates its postsynaptic actions on the guinea-pig uterine artery, were investigated by incubating arterial segments in culture medium containing pertussis toxin (PTX). Arteries were incubated with 0, 0.25 or 1 microgram.ml-1 PTX for 24 or 48 h. Arterial segments incubated in culture medium without PTX showed the three postsynaptic responses to NPY which were reported previously in uncultured arteries: NPY further contracted segments which were precontracted with prostaglandin F2 alpha; NPY reduced the maximum relaxations produced by vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP); and NPY produced a rightward shift in the VIP concentration-response curves. PTX attenuated the three actions of NPY on the uterine artery to different degrees. PTX also reduced the magnitude of contractions produced by prostaglandin F2 alpha, but did not affect contractions produced by 0.126 M KCl, or relaxations produced by VIP in the absence of NPY. These data indicate that all postsynaptic actions of NPY on the uterine artery, and contractions produced by prostaglandin F2 alpha, are at least partly mediated by pertussis toxin-sensitive GTP-binding proteins. It is not clear whether these multiple actions of NPY are mediated by one, or more than one, GTP-binding protein.
Alzheimer beta/A4 amyloid precursor protein (APP) has been suggested to play a central role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer disease. We have measured the content of different species of APP holoprotein and carboxyl-terminal fragments in human brains from young individuals, nondemented aged individuals, and aged individuals with Alzheimer disease. By using an antibody directed against the cytoplasmic domain of APP, five species were resolved. Three of these, of molecular masses 106, 113, and 133 kDa, represent presumptive immature and mature isoforms of APP holoprotein. Two smaller proteins, of molecular masses 15 and 19 kDa, represent presumptive proteolytic carboxyl-terminal fragments of APP. The 133-, 113-, 106-, and 15-kDa species were found in both grey and white matter, whereas the 19-kDa species was found only in grey matter. Total APP immunoreactivity (sum of all five species) and the levels of the 113-, 106-, and 15-kDa species were not significantly different in brain samples from young individuals, nondemented aged individuals, and aged individuals with Alzheimer disease. In contrast, the levels of the 133- and 19-kDa species increased 2- to 3-fold with age. A correlation was observed between the levels of the 133- and 19-kDa species, suggesting a possible precursor-product relationship. The size of the 19-kDa fragment indicated that it might have an intact beta/A4 domain and therefore be amyloidogenic. The age-dependent increase either in a mature APP isoform and/or in a putative amyloidogenic fragment could explain why Alzheimer disease is associated with advanced age.
This article presents the most significant results and trends concerning current research on the neurobiological basis of memory. The important contribution of neuropsychological research and the resulting constraints that its findings impose to every neurobiological approach are briefly reviewed. The main results about the molecular mechanisms of synaptic plasticity, together with those obtained by several approaches such as electrophysiology, neurochemistry are reported and discussed with respect to their degree of pertinence and coherence with the issues. Finally, the problems relating to the nature, properties, mechanisms of construction and evolution of the internal representations are examined.
We studied binding of [125I]SCH 23982 in two regions of human brain, the caudate and the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. Binding characteristics of [125I]SCH 23982 and of the non-iodinated tritiated analogue, [3H]SCH 23390, were compared. In caudate, binding of [125I]SCH 23982 was consistent with binding to D1 dopamine receptors while in frontal cortex, [125I]SCH 23982 bound mostly to serotonergic 5HT2 receptors. In contrast to [3H]SCH 23390, no evidence of binding of [125I]SCH 23982 to D1 receptors could be found in human frontal cortex. This indicates that iodination of SCH 23390 induces a decrease in its relative D1 versus 5HT2 selectivity that prohibits the use of [125I]SCH 23982 to label D1 receptors in human cortex.
The density of Mg(2+)-dependent Ca2+ ATPase in the terminal cisternae of pig skeletal muscle fibers was investigated to discover whether a reduction in Ca2+ ATPase content impairs Ca2+ sequestration and contributes to the elevated myoplasmic Ca2+ concentration in malignant hyperthermia. Unexpectedly, immunogold electron microscopy showed an increase in Ca2+ ATPase, while densitometry of SDS-polyacrylamide gels suggested that the Ca2+ ATPase content of terminal cisternae vesicles did not change. The affinity of Ca2+ ATPase in vesicles for our monoclonal antibody was not altered. We suggest that the availability of antigenic sites in malignant hyperthermia increases after processing for electron microscopy, perhaps as a consequence of altered sarcoplasmic reticulum membrane properties.
A fusion protein produced by a cDNA for rat choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) inserted into a translation vector was used for immunization of rabbits. An antiserum was obtained that could recognize a single protein band in immunoblot analysis of a partially purified enzyme preparation of the rat brain. The antiserum revealed ChAT immunoreactivity in the motoneurons and terminal-like structures in the neuropil of the ventral horn in cryostat sections of the cervical spinal cord of the rat. This antiserum may be of particular use to study the development of the cholinergic neuron.
The density and distribution of reactivity for two lectins (soybean agglutinin (SBA) and RL-29), growth associated protein-43 (GAP-43) and the neuropeptides substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide were analyzed in the spinal cord dorsal horn of rats with an experimental peripheral neuropathy. Twenty-eight days postsurgery, the density of label for RL-29 and GAP-43 was increased in laminae I and II on the experimental compared to the control side. In contrast, the density of neuropeptide label was decreased in the same region. Furthermore, on the experimental side, the distribution of both SBA and RL-29 reactivity was increased, extending into lamina III. We hypothesize that the increases in density and distribution of reactivity for the lectins and GAP-43, as well as the decreases in neuropeptide reactivity, reflect injury-induced regenerative changes in primary afferent terminals.
Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), produced by alternative processing of the primary transcript of the calcitonin gene, is a potent vasodilator. We have shown that dietary calcium deficiency accompanied by decreased serum ionized calcium significantly decreases the neuronal content of CGRP in laminae I and II of the dorsal horn of the spinal cord in the growing rat. The spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR) is characterized by decreased serum ionized calcium levels and is thought to most closely resemble human essential hypertension. To determine if the neuronal content of CGRP is decreased in the SHR compared to the Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) parent strain, CGRP was localized immunocytochemically in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord. The density of immunocytochemical staining was quantitated by computer-assisted image processing of laminae I and II of the upper thoracic spinal cord of 12-14 week old male SHR (n = 4) and WKY (n = 4) normotensive, control rats. The SHR had significantly decreased neuronal CGRP content compared to the WKY rats (107 +/- 5 vs 121 +/- 6 arbitrary units, P less than 0.01). In contrast, the neuronal density of substance P (SP), which frequently co-exists with CGRP in this neuronal population, was not different between the two groups (SHR, 91 +/- 6 (n = 4) vs WKY, 88 +/- 3 arbitrary units (n = 4)).
1,3-di(2-[5-3H]tolyl)Guanidine ([3H]DTG) was found to bind to a single saturable population of binding sites in human cerebral cortex and NCB20 cells, a second low-affinity site was apparent in guinea pig brain. Displacement studies were performed to determine the pharmacology of the [3H]DTG binding site in these 3 membrane preparations. In human cortical tissue and NCB20 cell membranes the (+)-stereoisomers of benzomorphans displaced binding with Hill coefficients close to one, displayed similar affinity and did not give the biphasic displacement curve characteristic of guinea pig membranes. The pIC50 of the low-affinity component of the sigma binding site in guinea pig brain correlates best with the affinity of drugs for the binding site in human cortex.

The forebrain auditory, electrosensory, and mechanosensory lateral line pathways in the channel catfish, Ictalurus punctatus, were examined by applying the fluorescent tracer DiI to 1) the auditory part of the torus semicircularis, 2) the electrosensory part of the torus semicircularis, 3) the lateral preglomerular nucleus, and 4) the anterior tuberal nucleus. Three distinct pathways ascend from the torus semicircularis to the telencephalon; they course through either 1) the lateral preglomerular nucleus of the posterior tuberculum, 2) the anterior tuberal nucleus of the hypothalamus, or 3) the central posterior nucleus of the dorsal thalamus. The anatomical data suggest that each of these ascending pathways carries information from more than one sensory modality. The lateral preglomerular nucleus receives an electrosensory input from nucleus electrosensorius in the diencephalon, but it also receives auditory and mechanosensory inputs directly from the torus semicircularis. The anterior tuberal and central posterior nuclei receive primarily auditory and mechanosensory, but also minor electrosensory, inputs. The efferent projections of the central posterior nucleus are presently unknown, but the lateral preglomerular and anterior tuberal nuclei project to nonoverlapping portions of the telencephalon. A cladistic analysis of these indirect torotelencephalic pathways reveals that 1) the pathway through the dorsal thalamus is probably a primitive character for gnathostomes, 2) a well-developed pathway through the posterior tuberculum is probably a derived character for actinopterygian fishes, 3) the pathway through nucleus electrosensorius is probably a derived character for catfishes and gymnotoid teleosts, and 4) auditory pathways through the hypothalamus probably evolved independently in catfishes and frogs.
The 70-kDa neurofilament protein subunit (NF-L) is phosphorylated in vivo on at least three sites (L1 to L3) (Sihag, R. K. and Nixon, R. A. (1989) J. Biol. Chem. 264, 457-464). The turnover of phosphate groups on NF-L during axonal transport was determined after the neurofilaments in retinal ganglion cells were phosphorylated in vivo by injecting mice intravitreally with [32P]orthophosphate. Two-dimensional phosphopeptide maps of NF-L from optic axons of mice 10 to 90 h after injection showed that radiolabel decreased faster from peptides L2 and L3 than from L1 as neurofilaments were transported. To identify phosphorylation sites on peptide L2, axonal cytoskeletons were phosphorylated by protein kinase A in the presence of heparin. After the isolated NF-L subunits were digested with alpha-chymotrypsin, 32P-peptides were separated by high performance liquid chromatography on a reverse-phase C8 column. Two-dimensional peptide mapping showed that the alpha-chymotrypsin 32P-peptide accepting most of the phosphates from protein kinase A migrated identically with the in vivo-labeled phosphopeptide L2. The sequence of this peptide (S-V-R-R-S-Y) analyzed by automated Edman degradation corresponded to amino acid residues 51-56 of the NF-L sequence. A synthetic 13-mer (S-L-S-V-R-R-S-Y-S-S-S-S-G) corresponding to amino acid residues 49-61 of NF-L was also phosphorylated by protein kinase A. alpha-Chymotryptic digestion of the 13-mer generated a peptide which contained most of the phosphates and co-migrated with the phosphopeptide L2 on two-dimensional phosphopeptide maps. Edman degradation of the phosphorylated 13-mer identified serine residue 55 which is located within a consensus phosphorylation sequence for protein kinase A as the major site of phosphorylation. Since protein kinase A-mediated phosphorylation influences intermediate filament assembly/disassembly in vitro, we propose that the phosphopeptide L2 region is a neurofilament-assembly domain and that the cycle of phosphorylation and dephosphorylation of Ser-55 on NF-L, which occurs relatively early after subunit synthesis in vivo, regulaaes a step in neurofilament assembly or initial interactions during axonal transport.
The induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) in the dentate gyrus (DG) leads to a change in the firing characteristics of the dentate granule cells. This phenomenon, termed EPSP/spike dissociation, is seen in field potential studies as a shift to the left of the E-S curve, in which population spike amplitude is plotted against pEPSP slope at various stimulus intensities. It has been suggested that EPSP/spike dissociation reflects a decrease in feed-forward inhibition. To test this hypothesis, we blocked GABA-A neurotransmission in a circumscribed area of the DG in urethane-anaesthetized rats by inserting a micropipette filled with 8 mM bibuculline methiodide in saline. We then recorded E-S curves from 9 such electrodes and from 8 control electrodes before and after inducing LTP in the perforant path. Bicuculline prevented the LTP-associated leftward shift of the E-S curves. Instead, the E-S curve showed a consistent shift to the right at the bicuculline sites after LTP, reflecting potentiation of the pEPSP without corresponding increases in the population spike amplitude. The results indicate that the EPSP/spike relationship is controlled largely by GABAergic input, and that potentiation of the population spike in the DG depends largely on a change in the EPSP/spike relationship.
The computed tomographic (CT) features in 10 patients with moyamoya disease have been analysed. The scan findings were correlated with the corresponding angiographic profile and the stage of the vascular disease. Multiple infarcts (82%), abnormal enhancement patterns (50%) and cerebral atrophy (60%) were the frequent abnormalities detected. Though the abnormalities on scan did not correlate entirely with the angiographic and the clinical profiles, the CT Scans were most frequently abnormal in later stages of the disease (Stages-4 and 5). No scan abnormalities were detected in the territory of the posterior circulation.
Serum levels of the soluble interleukin-2 receptor (sIL-2R), an indicator of T cell activation, were significantly elevated in chronic progressive MS (CPMS) patients, clinically stable MS patients and in patients with other neurological diseases (OND) as compared to healthy controls. Levels of sIL-2R in steroid treated CPMS patients were markedly lower than in untreated CPMS patients and were comparable to healthy controls. Thus, systemic T cell activation occurs in MS during clinically stable and progressive disease stages and in other neurological disorders. The ability of oral corticosteroids to depress serum sIL-2R levels in vivo may be one mechanism by which they exert their therapeutic effect.
The caudal ventrolateral medulla (CVLM) plays a significant role in the regulation of sympathetic nerve activity (SNA) and arterial pressure; however, the use of lesions to examine its role in mediating baroreceptor reflex control of SNA has yielded discrepant results. We hypothesize that this may have arisen from anatomic segregation of neurons within the CVLM that subserve different functions in sympathetic control. Thus we used microinjections of the excitotoxic agent kainic acid (200 pmol in 20 nl) to determine the effects of inactivation of neuronal cell bodies in a rostral and a caudal subregion of the CVLM on SNA, arterial pressure, and baroreceptor reflex function in urethan-anesthetized rats. Interruption of neuronal activity in the rostral CVLM (sites from 0.6 mm caudal to 0.5 mm rostral to the rostral border of the lateral reticular nucleus) elevated SNA (post-kainic acid 214% of control) and arterial pressure (+34 mmHg) and eliminated the inhibition of splanchnic SNA evoked by either aortic nerve stimulation or the pressor response to intravenous norepinephrine. In addition, the cardiac-related component of spontaneous SNA was abolished as judged from post-R wave averages and from power spectral analysis. In contrast, although a similar disruption of neuronal activity in the caudal CVLM (sites 0.0-0.6 mm rostral to the caudal border of the lateral reticular nucleus) produced a comparable increase in spontaneous SNA (post-kainic acid 196% of control) and arterial pressure (+20 mmHg), it was without effect on the ability of the baroreceptor reflex to inhibit SNA, and it enhanced the synchronization of the spontaneous bursts in SNA to the cardiac cycle. Our results suggest an organization of the CVLM in which neurons in its rostral portion are required for an effective baroreceptor reflex, whereas those in the caudal CVLM serve to limit SNA and blood pressure independent of the baroreceptor reflex.
The present study examines the relationship between the migration of mesenchyme and associated cutaneous nerves that are involved in the closure of the anterior body wall in embryonic mice and rats by light and electron microscopy. The sternum is formed by the migration of condensations of mesenchyme originating in the dorsolateral body wall known as sternal bands. In the course of analyzing this process in rodent embryos we have identified similar paired caudal extensions of the sternal bands that are responsible for the closure of the abdominal wall following resolution of the umbilical hernia, and we suggest these bands of mesoderm should be referred to as the abdominal bands. Both the sternal and abdominal bands are associated with the development of the segmental spinal nerves and their cutaneous terminal branches. The first cutaneous nerve to reach the skin surface in rats is the later cutaneous nerve (PCN and ACN) at E13.5 days. The ACN co-migrates with the sternal and abdominal bands, and terminal branches of axons from the ACN approach the epidermis during this migration. Differentiation of the epidermis could be recognized as a change in shape of epidermal cells from squamous to cuboidal, and this initial differentiation coincides with the onset of cutaneous innervation, beginning at the site of the LCN and following the extent of innervation of the PCN as well as the migration of the mesodermal bands and associated ACN. The paired ACN's meet in the ventral midline at E16.5 in rats as the sternal bands fuse, and terminal axons from both nerves densely innervate the midline skin.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We present here both linear regressions and multivariate analyses correlating three global neuropsychological tests with a number of structural and neurochemical measurements performed on a prospective series of 15 patients with Alzheimer's disease and 9 neuropathologically normal subjects. The statistical data show only weak correlations between psychometric indices and plaques and tangles, but the density of neocortical synapses measured by a new immunocytochemical/densitometric technique reveals very powerful correlations with all three psychological assays. Multivariate analysis by stepwise regression produced a model including midfrontal and inferior parietal synapse density, plus inferior parietal plaque counts with a correlation coefficient of 0.96 for Mattis's Dementia Rating Scale. Plaque density contributed only 26% of that strength.
Artificial dopamine agonists are widely employed for the treatment of idiopathic parkinsonism. Pleuropulmonary disease has previously been reported to occur with the use of bromocriptine and mesulergine. We report similar adverse effects induced by the newer agonists lisuride and cabergoline. All these agents are tetracyclic ergot derivatives. This suggests a causal link between ergot-derived dopamine agonists and pleuropulmonary disease.
To better understand the nature of the memory deficit in patients with multiple sclerosis, we designed a study to compare automatic vs effortful memory processes. Forty-one patients with definite multiple sclerosis and 45 demographically matched normal control subjects were administered two tasks designed to assess both automatic (monitoring frequency and modality) and effortful (free and cued-recall) processing. Results indicated that patients with multiple sclerosis, as expected, were significantly impaired on memory measures requiring effort, but performed normally on automatic measures. Performance on the memory indexes did not correlate with self-reported depression. The implications of these findings for delineating the locus of the memory impairment in multiple sclerosis is discussed.

1. The effect of chlormethiazole, and other drugs which potentiate gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) function on delayed neuronal death in the hippocampus has been examined in the gerbil. 2. Chlormethiazole (100 mg kg-1, i.p.) and two other drugs previously reported to be neuroprotective (dizocilpine, 3 mg kg-1, i.p. and ifenprodil, 4 mg kg-1, i.p.) were all found to prevent neurodegeneration of CA1/CA2 neurones in the hippocampus when given 30 min before a 5 min episode of bilateral carotid artery occlusion. 3. Chlormethiazole (100 mg kg-1) was neuroprotective when given up to 3 h, after the ischaemic episode. 4. Given 1 h after the cartoid artery occlusion, chlormethiazole produced significant protection against hippocampal neurodegeneration at a dose of 50 mg kg-1, but not at 25 mg kg-1. 5. Phenobarbitone (100 mg kg-1, i.p.) and Saffan (alphaxalone, 45 mg kg-1 plus alphadalone, 15 mg kg-1, i.p.) were not protective when given 1 h after the ischaemic episode while pentobarbitone (30 mg kg-1, i.p.) had a modest protective effect. 6. Evidence is presented to show that neither the operating procedure nor the chlormethiazole administration lowered rectal or cerebral temperature. 7. The data suggest that chlormethiazole may be a useful treatment in the prevention of neurodegeneration following stroke or cardiac arrest.
1. The interaction at tachykinin receptors of a series of novel cyclic hexapeptides has been examined by use of radioligand binding assays (NK1 and NK3 sites in rat cortex, NK2 sites in hamster urinary bladder) and functional pharmacological assays (guinea-pig ileum, rat vas deferens and rat portal vein for NK1, NK2 and NK3 receptors, respectively). 2. The compounds cyclo(GlnTrpPhe(R)Gly[ANC-2]LeuMet) (L-659,837) and cyclo(GlnTrpPheGly-LeuMet) (L-659,877) were powerful and selective displacers of NK2 binding (pIC50 6.9 and 8.0, respectively), and were competitive antagonists of responses to stimulation of NK2 receptors in rat vas deferens (pKB for antagonism of responses to eledoisin 6.7 and 8.1, respectively). Responses in the NK1 and NK3 pharmacological assays were blocked only weakly, if at all. 3. In the longitudinal muscle of the small intestine of the rat, responses to stimulation of the putative NK2 receptor by eledoisin, neurokinin A or neurokinin B were antagonized by both cyclo(GlnTrpPhe(R)-Gly[ANC-2]LeuMet) and cyclo (GlnTrpPheGlyLeuMet) in a manner consistent with the presence in this tissue of a uniform population of receptors, indistinguishable from the NK2 receptor of the rat vas deferens. 4. The compounds cyclo(GlnTrpPheGlyLeuMet) and the lactam-containing analogue are among the most selective antagonists for the NK2 receptor that have been described; their availability should be of value in the characterization of the receptors mediating responses to tachykinins, and in elucidating the physiological functions of the tachykinin receptors.
The ability of five language-impaired (LI) children and five matched controls, aged 7-10 years, to discriminate natural pairs of consonant-vowel syllables contrasted on place of articulation and voicing, presented to the right or left ear with white noise in the contralateral ear, was investigated. The general pattern of errors indicated that LI children had more difficulty than controls in discriminating place of articulation contrasts only when they were presented to the left ear, as well as a difficulty in discriminating voice contrasts selective to the right ear. The results are discussed in terms of acoustic integration and suggest that bihemispheric dysfunction is a basis for specific language impairment.
Previous studies have shown changes in both somatostatin (SS)- and proenkephalin(PE)-derived peptides in the brains of amygdaloid-kindled rats, suggesting possible roles for the peptides in the kindling process. In this study, we have extended this analysis by looking at the time course of changes in SS and PE mRNAs at various times after kindling, in comparison with a single non-convulsive stimulation. Blot analysis of total RNA showed increases in SS mRNA in striatum, frontal cortex and hippocampus of animals receiving only a single stimulation as well as kindled animals--the increase occurred 1-3 days following stimulation and levels were back to basal by 1 week. PE mRNA did not change. In situ hybridization analysis, one day after the last kindling stimulation, showed significant elevations of SS mRNA in CA1, CA2 and dentate gyrus of hippocampus and of PE mRNA in olfactory cortex that were specific to kindling. However, both a single stimulation and kindling increased PE mRNA in olfactory tubercle and arcuate nucleus. In contrast, a single electrical stimulus increased PE mRNA in ventral striatum and SS mRNA in cingulate cortex and olfactory tubercle. These data support the idea that changes of SS mRNA in hippocampus and of PE mRNA in olfactory cortex may be related to kindling, and point out the importance of using animals which receive a single electrical stimulus, rather than sham-operated animals, as controls.
The localization of neurons containing mRNA of the alpha 1 subunit of the gamma-aminobutyric acid-A (GABAA) receptor was examined in the rat forebrain by in situ hybridization histochemistry using an oligonucleotide probe for the alpha 1 subunit. Moderately to strongly labeled neurons were numerous in the mitral cell layer of the olfactory bulb, the anterior olfactory nucleus, the diagonal band of Broca, the globus pallidus, the tenia tecta, the hippocampal formation, the thalamic and subthalamic nuclei, the zona incerta, and the amygdaloid complex. A few positive neurons were found in the caudate-putamen, the lateral and medial septal areas, the nucleus accumbens, the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the ventral pallidum, and the hypothalamus. The distribution of neurons containing alpha 1 subunit mRNA in the forebrain was very similar to that of neurons expressing beta 2 subunit mRNA, suggesting that these two subunits frequently coexist in the same neurons in the forebrain.
Axonal tracing techniques were used in combination with immunohistochemistry to examine the distribution of neuropeptides in afferent pathways from the uterine cervix of the cat. Primary afferent neurons innervating the uterine cervix were identified by axonal transport of the dye, fast blue, injected into the cervix. Fifteen to twenty-five days after the injection, dorsal root ganglia (L1-S3) were removed and incubated for 48-72 h in culture medium containing colchicine to increase the levels of peptides. Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), cholecystokinin (CCK), leucine-enkephalin (LENK), somatostatin, substance P and vasoactive intenstinal polypeptide (VIP) were identified by use of indirect immunohistochemical techniques. Eighty-four percent of uterine cervix afferent neurons were identified in the sacral dorsal root ganglia (S1-S3), and 16% in the middle lumbar dorsal root ganglia (L3-L4). In sacral dorsal root ganglia, VIP was present in the highest percentage of dye-labeled cells (71%), CGRP in 42%, and substance P in 18% of the cells. CCK and LENK were present in 13% of the cells. In lumbar dorsal root ganglia, CGRP (51%) was most prominent peptide followed by VIP (34%), substance P (28%), LENK (17%) and CCK (13%). Somatostatin was present in the ganglia but did not occur in dye-labeled neurons. In conclusion, the uterine cervix of the cat receives a prominent VIP- and CGRP-containing afferent innervation. The percentage of neurons containing VIP is three to five times higher than the percentage of these neurons in afferent pathways to other pelvic organs. These observations coupled with the results of physiological studies suggest that VIP is an important transmitter in afferent pathways from the cervix.
The effects of the partial dopamine agonist terguride (9,10 transdihydrolisuride; THDL) on striatal dopamine receptors were studied by its i.v. administration to 13 patients with Parkinson's disease. Patients were maintained in a steadily mobile state with abnormal involuntary movements by a constant i.v. infusion of levodopa. Terguride showed dopamine antagonist properties in nine patients. In two of these nine patients, a decrease in dyskinesia score was observed without a concomitant worsening of parkinsonian symptoms, whereas in the remaining seven, full parkinsonian akinesia followed THDL administration. The subsequent i.v. injection of the dopamine agonist lisuride reversed THDL-induced akinesia in these seven patients. In the remaining four patients, no clinically significant motor effects were observed. These results show dopamine antagonist activity of terguride in patients with Parkinson's disease treated with Levodopa. Further studies using a wider dose titration are required to evaluate the possible role of dopamine partial agonists in the therapy of levodopa-induced dyskinesias.
The incidence of stroke in the young is higher in the Indian subcontinent than in the West, but the precise cause is not known. Previous angiographic studies in cases of &quot;young stroke&quot; have yielded variable results. The present angiographic study of 143 cases of young stroke (under 40 years of age) showed a high incidence of abnormality (71%). The lesions included atherosclerotic disease of the internal carotid artery (68%), stenosis/occlusion of the major intracranial vessels (37%) and small-vessel disease. Tandem lesions were common (26%). Primary atherosclerosis is thought to be the cause of young stroke in the Indian population.

A review of work in the dopaminergic system reveals both progress and controversy. More than 100 papers on intracerebral grafting were published last year. Several groups have published the clinical outcome of fetal substantia nigra implants in Parkinsonian patients and studies suggest that sprouting of dopaminergic fibers in response to grafting procedures ameliorates the behavioral deficits of dopamine-depleted animals. Trophic factors for dopamine neurons have also been identified. In addition, genetically modified cells continue to be developed as an alternative method for delivering molecules to the brain. The speed with which neural grafting has become a therapeutic procedure in Parkinsonian patients continues to stimulate debate.
Recent studies have shown that Schwann cells stimulate nerve regeneration by producing nerve growth factor in response to macrophage activation as well as by mediating growth through cell-surface and extracellular matrix adhesion molecules. Neurons sprouting in the central nervous system, however, encounter a hostile environment including mature oligodendrocytes with contact inhibitors of growth cone motility, masses of proliferating astrocytes with surface properties that may block regeneration, and an extracellular environment relatively rich in chondroitin sulfate and tenascin forming a matrix less permissive for regeneration than that found in the peripheral nervous system. In addition, as neurons mature, integrins and cell adhesion molecules are reduced in number (transcriptionally) or in efficacy (post-translationally).
The synaptic vesicle has been the focus of recent efforts to generate a molecular description of the nerve terminal. The function and molecular composition of the synaptic vesicle are well characterized, due in part to its relative simplicity. Recent work identifies specific proteins involved in some of the functions of the synaptic vesicle and their mechanism of action.

Review of the literature regarding general aspects of neurological rehabilitation reveals three areas of professional and scientific advances. The first focuses on the importance of education in rehabilitation medicine and the assessment of factors contributing to the outcome of neurological rehabilitation programs. The second area represents the developing practice of interventional restorative neurology within neurorehabilitation programs. The third is centered on increased awareness of the practical value of new achievements in the neurosciences, especially with respect to recovery processes after injury to the nervous system.
These experiments were undertaken to define the neuroendocrine mechanisms underlying the recovery of ovarian function after transplantation to an ectopic site. Both ovaries from 23-day-old rats were transplanted to the region of the neck, next to the jugular vein. Serum gonadotropin and plasma immunoreactive inhibin-alpha levels were determined at several intervals thereafter. Serum estradiol (E2) was measured during the first week posttransplantation. Reinnervation of the ovary by sympathetic and sensory nerves was monitored by immunohistochemistry. Sympathetic nerves were identified as adrenergic by the presence of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), the rate-limiting enzyme in catecholamine biosynthesis, and as peptidergic, by their neuropeptide-Y (NPY) or vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) immunoreactivity. Sensory nerves were identified by the presence of substance P (SP) and calcitonin-gene related peptide (CGRP) immunoreactivity. Serum LH and FSH increased, and plasma inhibin levels decreased, within 48 h after transplantation. Serum LH reached maximum levels on day 4, decreasing rapidly thereafter to basal values by day 6. These changes were functionally correlated with the posttransplantation fluctuations in serum E2, which decreased at 48 h, rebounded by day 4, and returned to basal values on day 7. Removal of the transplanted ovaries on day 3 resulted in the disappearance of serum E2 levels on day 4, thus confirming the ovarian graft as the source of E2. In contrast to LH, serum FSH remained significantly elevated for at least 3 weeks after transplantation, then decreased to basal levels after day 21, coinciding with the rise in inhibin secretion. Although a substantial loss of follicles was noted 48 h after transplantation, quantitative examination of the changes on day 4 revealed that approximately 40% of antral follicles were not necrotic. Ovulation and formation of corpora lutea were noted 21 days after transplantation. Reinnervation of the transplanted ovary by TH-, VIP-, NPY-, SP-, and CGRP-containing fibers was first detected 7 days after transplantation. Although VIP reinnervation was sparse and only transiently detected (days 7-21), the density of sympathetic (TH, NPY) and sensory (SP, CGRP) fibers increased 2- to 3-fold between days 7-28, remaining unchanged thereafter. Since apparent completion of this reinnervation coincided with reestablishment of normal levels of both LH and FSH, an additional experiment was performed to determine if the two events were causally related.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

The effects of aging on extracellular glutamate and tissue dynorphin content in the hippocampus were examined in Fischer-344 rats. Young adult (4-month-old) and aged (24-month-old) rats were trained to find a hidden platform in the Morris water task. Aged rats were unable to acquire the spatial learning task as rapidly as young controls. Following behavioral testing, an in vivo microdialysis perfusion method was used to determine extracellular glutamate levels in the hippocampus. There was a 25-35% reduction in extracellular glutamate concentration in both dorsal and ventral hippocampus of aged rats compared to young rats, in the absence of any change in tissue glutamate levels. Radioimmunoassay showed an increase in dynorphin A(1-8)-like immunoreactivity [DYN-A(1-8)LI] in both dorsal and ventral hippocampus, but not striatum, of aged rats. Immunocytochemistry indicated that this increase was localized to the dentate granule cells and mossy fibers. Furthermore, among the aged rats the increase in DYN-A(1-8)LI was inversely correlated with the decrease in extracellular glutamate. These results suggest that the disregulation of dynorphin observed in cognitively impaired aged rats is related to reduced excitatory transmission within the hippocampal formation.
Rat hepatic lectins mediate adhesion of isolated rat hepatocytes to synthetic surfaces derivatized with galactosides. Initial weak adhesion is followed by rapid adhesion strengthening. After hepatocytes contact galactose-derivatized gels, the hepatic lectins move rapidly into an inaccessible patch at the adhesive surface (Weisz, O. A., and R. L. Schnaar. 1991. J. Cell Biol. 115:485-493). Hepatic lectin patching, which occurs both at 37 degrees C and 4 degrees C, is not responsible for adhesion strengthening, which does not occur at 4 degrees C. Of various cytoskeletal and metabolic perturbants tested, only a combination of hyperosmotic medium, colchicine, and cytochalasin caused a marked (72%) reduction of adhesion strengthening (without reducing weak cell adhesion). Clathrin and actin were readily detected in the adhesive patch by immunofluorescence microscopy. Rat hepatocytes also adhered avidly to surfaces derivatized with asialofetuin, a high-affinity ligand for the rat hepatic lectins. However, hepatic lectin molecules did not migrate into a patch on the asialofetuin-derivatized surface, suggesting that hepatic lectin-asialofetuin binding may have resulted in the rapid formation of a ring of essentially irreversibly adherent receptors that prevented diffusion of additional lectin molecules into the contact site. The cells were unable to increase their adhesive contact area by flattening onto the derivatized surface. Treatment of cells with cytochalasin, however, did result in an increase in the size of the contact area. Cells adhering to surfaces derivatized with an adhesion-promoting peptide (containing an arg-gly-asp sequence) had larger contact areas than those adhering to galactoside-derivatized surfaces. A model is proposed in which carbohydrate-mediated adhesion causes specific reorganization of cytoskeletal components, leading to strengthened adhesion and a characteristic spherical cell morphology.

This article presents the concept of a spatial orientation/motion perceptual system, the contributions of the vestibular receptors to this system, and apparatus and training procedures and observations to allow astronauts to preadapt to weightlessness. The author also discusses perceptual reactions to prolonged weightlessness.

Fundamental approaches in selection of new agents for evaluation in prevention of space/motion sickness (SMS) are reviewed. The discussion centers on drugs under investigation at the Johnson Space Center. Methodology that employs the rotating chair for measuring SMS symptomatology and susceptibility is described. The most obvious approach to the development of new agents relies on selection of agents from drug classes that possess pharmacologic properties of established anti-motion sickness agents. A second approach selects drugs that are used to prevent emesis caused by means other than exposure to motion. The third approach relies on basic research that characterizes individual differences in susceptibility. The hypothesis is: detection of individual differences leads to identification of specific drugs, which target physiologic systems that show individual differences. These physiologic systems are targets for therapy and may play a role in the etiology of SMS. Two drugs that reduce susceptibility to SMS include dexamethasone and d(CH2)5Tyr(Me)AVP, a vasopressin (AVP)V1 antagonist. The latter peptide has demonstrated complete blockade of emesis and other significant symptoms in squirrel monkeys. These studies were predicated on observations that subjects who were more resistant to SMS had higher plasma AVP after severe nausea than subjects with lower resistances. Investigations are underway to test a 0.5-mg intravenous dose in humans. Kappa opioid agonists inhibit AVP release and offer new therapeutic possibilities and advantages over AVP peptides. This review details the experimental data collected on AVP and adrenocorticotropin. The literature supports interrelated roles for AVP and opioid peptides in SMS. Experimental testing of kappa agonists is warranted because specific opioid agonists act at neuroanatomical sites causing nausea and vomiting. It is argued opioid receptors in the chemoreceptor trigger zone and vomiting center stimulate and inhibit the emetic response, respectively. The evidence suggests kappa and/or mu receptors at VC are involved in inhibition of emesis, whereas delta opioid receptors at CTZ are involved in stimulation of emesis.
Nearly sinusoidal electric organ discharges (EODs) of the weakly electric fish Sternopygus, occur at a regular rate within a range from 50 to 200 Hz and are commanded by a medullary pacemaker nucleus (Pn). During courtship and aggression, the rate of EODs is modulated as smooth EOD-frequency rises or brief EOD-interruptions (Hopkins 1974b). The present study examines the control of such modulations. Rises were elicited by L-glutamate stimulation of the diencephalic prepacemaker nucleus, the only previously known source of input to the Pn. We demonstrate an additional input to the Pn, the sublemniscal prepacemaker nucleus (SPPn). L-glutamate stimulation of this area caused EOD-interruptions. The Pn contains electrotonically coupled 'pacemaker cells' which generate the rhythm of the EODs, as well as 'relay cells' which transmit the command pulse to the spinal motor neurons that innervate the electric organ. Pacemaker cells recorded intracellularly during EOD-interruptions continued firing at their regular frequency but with slightly increased jitter. Relay cells, on the other hand, were strongly depolarized and fired spikelets at a greatly increased frequency during EOD-interruptions. Thus EOD-interruptions were caused by SPPn input to relay cells that caused their massive depolarization, blocking the normal input from pacemaker cells without greatly affecting pacemaker cell firing characteristics. Application to the Pn of an antagonist to NMDA-type glutamate receptors blocked EOD-frequency rises and EOD-interruptions. Antagonists to quisqualate/kainate receptor-types were ineffective.
Microdialysis is a technique for sampling the chemistry of the individual tissues and organs of the body, and is applicable to both animal and human studies. The basic principle is to mimic the function of a capillary blood vessel by perfusing a thin dialysis tube implanted into the tissue with a physiological liquid. The perfusate is analysed chemically and reflects the composition of the extracellular fluid with time due to the diffusion of substances back and forth over the membrane. Microdialysis is thus a technique whereby substances may be both recovered from and supplied to a tissue. The most important features of microdialysis are as follows: it samples the extracellular fluid, which is the origin of all blood chemistry; it samples continuously for hours or days without withdrawing blood; and it purifies the sample and simplifies chemical analysis by excluding large molecules from the perfusate. However, the latter feature renders the technique unsuitable for sampling large molecules such as proteins. The technique has been extensively used in the neurosciences to monitor neurotransmitter release, and is now finding application in monitoring of the chemistry of peripheral tissues in both animal and human studies.
A series of 3-substituted 1-(aminomethyl)-3,4-dihydro-5-hydroxy-1H-2- benzopyrans were prepared as potential D1 selective antagonists. The compounds were evaluated for their affinity and selectivity for the D1 receptor as well as for their functional antagonism of D1-mediated pharmacological events. The compounds show potent D1 antagonist properties in vitro. The optimum nitrogen substitution was found to be the primary amine and the observed order of potency for substitution at the 6-position is OH greater than Br greater than H greater than OMe. Two representative compounds, the 6-methyl and 6-bromo analogues, were also evaluated in vivo for dopaminergic activity. Interestingly, both compounds behave as potent in vivo agonists.
Pharmacological blocking agents are an important treatment approach for the current epidemic of drug abuse. This approach is multidisciplinary, ranging from molecular neuroscience for developing these blocking agents to behavioral therapies for establishing treatment delivery systems. This paper outlines the biological, behavioral, and clinical components of the pharmacological blocking agent approach. Clinical results using two blocking agents, naltrexone for opioid abuse and disulfiram for alcohol abuse, are reviewed as a source of leads in developing potential agents for treating sedative and stimulant abuse. While specific pharmacological antagonists have been developed for benzodiazepines, such agents are not yet available for stimulants. Furthermore, the clinical utility of stimulant antagonists may depend on the development of multisite agents that partially block several neurotransmitter systems rather than target a single-system brain receptor.
An impermeant benzodiazepine receptor ligand was prepared by derivatization of the aminobenzodiazepine 1012-S with 4-sulfophenylisothiocyanate. The resulting N-(4-sulfophenyl)-thiocarbamoyl derivative of 1012-S (SPTC-1012S) was purified by reverse-phase HPLC, and the predicted structure was verified by mass spectrometry. The apparent affinity of SPTC-1012S (IC50 = 9.8 +/- 2.9 nM) for displacement of [3H]flunitrazepam from intact chick cortical neurons was similar to that of 1012-S (IC50 = 4.0 +/- 0.3 nM). However, at concentrations from 0.1 to 10 microM, 1012-S was consistently more efficacious than SPTC-1012S, a finding indicating that 6-8% of the benzodiazepine receptor pool was not accessible to the impermeant compound. This inaccessible pool was eliminated by permeabilization of the cells with saponin or Triton X-100, a result suggesting that approximately 7% of neuronal benzodiazepine receptors are intracellular. Acute treatment (1-4 h at 37 degrees C) of neurons with 100 microM gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) or 100 nM clonazepam had little effect on the level of [3H]flunitrazepam binding but increased the proportion of intracellular receptors by 61 and 74%, respectively, compared with untreated controls. Similar treatment with 1 mM GABA increased the level of intracellular sites by 154-176%. The effect of GABA on receptor internalization was blocked by cotreatment with the GABAA receptor antagonist R 5135. The results suggest that SPTC-1012S can be used as a probe to study the internalization of the GABAA/benzodiazepine receptor complex under normal conditions or following acute or chronic treatment with agonists.
Neuronal survival factors in the central nervous system were investigated by using a primary culture of embryonic rat neocortical neurons. Bovine hippocampus was homogenized, and the supernatant from high-speed centrifugation was used as the starting material. At the step of DE-52 ion-exchange chromatography, neuronal survival activity was recovered in two fractions, fraction 14 (F14) and fraction 23 (F23). Antisera to the crude F14 and F23 fractions were raised in rabbits. These two antisera completely inhibited the neurotrophic activity of both fractions. Western blotting analysis revealed that anti-F14 antiserum recognized mainly a 30-kDa protein in F14 and anti-F23 antiserum recognized mainly a 44-kDa protein in F23. After sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of F23, the 44-kDa protein was cut out from the gel and partial amino acid sequences of the protein fragments were determined. A GenBank data bank indicated that the amino acid sequence of the fragment was identical to that of neuron-specific enolase (NSE). In our assay system, commercially available NSE itself possessed neuronal survival activity for the cultured neocortical neurons. The effects of NSE and F23 were inhibited completely by anti-NSE polyclonal antibody. Furthermore, highly purified NSE supported the survival of cultured neurons in a dose-dependent manner, and the neurotrophic effect was inhibited by monoclonal antibody to the NSE. These results strongly suggest that NSE is one of the neuronal survival factors in the central nervous system.
Two peptides corresponding to amino acid sequences predicted from the nucleotide sequence of the dopamine D2 receptor were synthesized. Peptide I (CGSEG-KADRPHYC) and peptide II (NNTDQNECIIY), corresponding to 24-34 and 176-185 from the NH2 terminus, respectively, were conjugated to keyhold limpet hemocyanin and injected into rabbits. Peptide I showed a greater immunogenic response than did peptide II. Both peptide antibodies exhibited high titer for the homologous antigens, but showed little or no cross-reactivity with heterogeneous peptides. Peptide I antibodies reacted with striatal membrane proteins of apparent molecular masses of 120, 90, 85, and 30 kDa on a western blot. Furthermore, the 90-kDa band was identified as denatured D2 receptor by its high affinity for the D2 selective photoaffinity probe 125I-N'-azidospiperone (125I-NAPS). Photoaffinity labeling of the 90-kDa protein by 125I-NAPS was reduced by 40% in the presence of the peptide I antibody. In addition, evidence is also presented to show the low level of 90-kDa protein in cerebellum which contains little or no D2 ligand binding sites. The antibody to peptide I inhibited the binding of [3H]YM-09151-2, a dopamine D2 receptor selective antagonist, to striatal membranes in a concentration-dependent manner; a 50% inhibition was obtained at a 1:500 dilution of the antisera with 20 pM ligand concentration. The data on the equilibrium inhibition kinetics of [3H]YM-09151-2 binding to striatal membranes were examined in the presence of antibody and showed a 25-30% decrease in Bmax (203.5 +/- 11.0 and 164.6 +/- 3.3 fmol/mg of protein in presence of preimmune and immune sera, respectively) with no change in KD.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Glutamate-induced neurotoxicity and calpain activity were studied in primary cultures of rat cerebellar granule neurons and glial cells. Calpain activation, as monitored by quantitative immunoblotting of spectrin, required micromolar concentrations of Ca2+ in neuronal homogenates (calpain I) and millimolar Ca2+ concentrations in glial homogenates (calpain II). Glutamate-induced toxicity and calpain activation were observed in neuronal, but not in glial, cultures. In neurons, calpain I activation by glutamate was dose-dependent and persisted after withdrawal of neurotoxic doses of glutamate. Natural (GM1) and semisynthetic (LIGA4) gangliosides or the glutamate receptor blocker MK-801 prevented calpain I activation and delayed neuronal death elicited by glutamate. GM1 and LIGA4 had no effect on calpain I activity in neuronal homogenates, however. Furthermore, two calpain I inhibitors (leupeptin and N-acetyl-Leu-Leu-norleucinal) prevented glutamate-induced spectrin degradation, but failed to affect glutamate neurotoxicity. These results thus suggest that glutamate-induced neurotoxicity is independent of calpain I activation.
Regulation of prostaglandin (PG) E2 receptors was investigated in a 3-[(3-cholamidopropyl)dimethylammonio]-1-propanesulfonate-solubilized fraction from the synaptic membrane of porcine temporal cortex. The fraction was preincubated with exogenous protein kinases, and then the binding of PGE2 was measured. PGE2 binding was increased approximately twofold by pretreatment with the catalytic subunit of cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase (A kinase) or calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II but not by that with protein kinase C. The increase was dependent on the ATP concentration, with ED50 values being close to the Km values of these protein kinases. Protein kinase inhibitors specific for A kinase and for calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II abolished the effect in a dose-dependent manner, with IC50 values being similar to those reported. Further study using the catalytic subunit of A kinase revealed that the maximal binding capacity apparently increased without affecting the affinity and the rate constants for association and dissociation. On the other hand, acid phosphatase treatment reduced the binding activity to the level of nonspecific binding. In addition, treatment by A kinase did not affect the binding of guanosine 5'-(3-thiotriphosphate) by the GTP-binding proteins and the activation of adenylate cyclase mediated by stimulatory guanine nucleotide-binding regulatory protein, and therefore the phosphorylation is believed to occur on the receptor protein. The results suggest that the PGE2 receptor can take active phosphorylated and inactive dephosphorylated forms, of which only the phosphorylated one can bind PGE2.
Weakly electric knifefish (Eigenmannia sp.) produce continuous electric organ discharges at very constant frequencies. Modulations of the discharges occur during social interactions and are under control of the diencephalic prepacemaker nucleus. Abrupt frequency modulations, or 'chirps', which are observed predominantly during the breeding season, can be elicited by stimulation of neurons in a ventro-lateral portion of the prepacemaker nucleus, the so-called PPn-C. The PPn-C consists of approximately 100 loosely scattered large multipolar neurons which send dendrites into three territories, called 'dorso-medial', 'dorso-lateral', and 'ventral'. In the present ultrastructural investigation, the synaptic organization of these neurons, identified by retrograde labelling with horseradish peroxidase, was studied quantitatively. Somata and dendrites of the PPn-C receive input from two classes of chemical synapses. Class-1 boutons contain predominantly agranular, round vesicles and are believed to be excitatory. Class-2 boutons display predominantly flattened or pleiomorphic vesicles and are probably inhibitory. The action of the agranular vesicles in the synaptic boutons of these two classes may be modulated by the content of large dense-core vesicles. These comprise approximately 1% of the total vesicle population and are found predominantly in regions distant from the active zone of the synaptic bouton. The density of chemical synapses exhibits marked topographic differences. Class-1 boutons occur typically at densities of 3-12 synapses per 100 microns of profile length on dendrites and cell bodies. No significant differences in density of class-1 boutons could be found between distal dendrites of the three territories, proximal dendrites and cell bodies. The density of class-2 synapses, on the other hand, increases significantly from usually less than 1 synapse per 100 microns of profile length on distal dendrites to 2-3 synapses per 100 microns of profile length on proximal dendrites and cell bodies. Such a topographic organization could enable the proximal elements to 'veto' the depolarizing response of distal dendrites to excitatory inputs. The growth of dendrites in the dorso-medial territory during the breeding season, as shown in a previous study, and the concurrent doubling of excitatory input received by class-1 synapses, could overcome the inhibition caused on somata and proximal dendrites by class-2 synapses and thus account for the dramatic increase in the fish's propensity to chirp in the context of sexual maturity.
Anticardiolipin antibodies (aCL), one of a group of antiphospholipid antibodies which include the lupus anticoagulant (LA), may occur in association with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and are less commonly detected in other diseases. We retrospectively reviewed the clinical and immunological features of 39 consecutive patients with abnormal aCL identified by one laboratory, to examine the spectrum of neurological disease in those patients without SLE. Fourteen patients in this category are described, 6 of whom did not have evidence of LA. All but 1 presented with neurological symptoms. Stroke and migraine dominated the clinical presentation, but many patients had features to suggest the presence of a hypercoagulable state. This study lends support to the concept of a primary antiphospholipid syndrome.
It is not known whether conservative or early aggressive (resective surgery with or without radiotherapy) management is better for tumours presenting with epilepsy. The prognosis of 560 patients with a clinical and CT diagnosis of intrinsic supratentorial tumour was examined retrospectively. Epilepsy was the first symptom in 164 patients. Histological confirmation of diagnosis was available in 391 (70%) of cases. Median survival was 37 months in the group presenting with epilepsy and six months in those presenting with other symptoms (p less than 0.0001). Patients presenting with epilepsy were more likely to have a normal clinical examination, a non-enhancing low density lesion on CT scan and a low grade tumour. From Cox's stepwise proportional hazards model, significant independent variables adversely affecting prognosis were increasing age, focal neurological signs and enhancing CT lesions at diagnosis, non-resective surgery and male sex. Of those presenting with epilepsy 80 patients had surgical treatment within two months of CT diagnosis. The Cox's model failed to identify any beneficial effects for either early resective surgery or radiotherapy. In primary intracerebral tumours with presentations other than epilepsy, resective surgery and radiotherapy were amongst the important factors associated with prolonged survival. Primary intracerebral tumours presenting with epilepsy are relatively benign and their outcome appears to be chiefly determined by clinical factors.
1. A generalized three-dimensional state space model of visual vestibular interaction was developed. Matrix and dynamical system operators associated with inputs from the semicircular canals, otolith velocity estimator, and the visual system have been incorporated into the model, which focus on their relationship to the velocity storage integrator. 2. A relationship was postulated between the eigenvalues and the direction of the eigenvectors of the system matrix and the orientation of the spatial vertical. It was assumed that the system matrix for a tilted position was a composition of two linear transformations of the system matrix for the upright position. One transformation modifies the eigenvalues of the system matrix, whereas another rotates the eigenvectors of the system matrix. The pitch and roll eigenvectors rotate with the head, whereas the yaw axis eigenvector remains approximately spatially invariant. 3. Based on the three-dimensional model, a computational procedure was formulated to identify the eigenvalues and eigenvectors of the system matrix with the use of a modification of the marquardt algorithm. With the use of data obtained from a monkey, it was shown that the three-dimensional behavior of velocity storage cannot be predicted solely in terms of its time constants, i.e., the inverse of its eigenvalues. With the use of the same eigenvalues the data could either be fit or not fit, depending on the eigenvector directions. Therefore, it is necessary to specify eigenvector directions when characterizing velocity storage in three dimensions. 4. Parameters found with the use of the Marquardt algorithm were incorporated into the model. Diagonal matrices in a head coordinate frame were introduced for coupling the visual system to the integrator and to the direct optokinetic pathway. Simulations of optokinetic nystagmus (OKN) and optokinetic after-nystagmus (OKAN) were run. The model predicted the behavior of yaw and pitch OKN and OKAN when the animal is upright. It also predicted the cross-coupling in the side down position. The trajectories in velocity space were also accurately simulated. 5. One of the predictions of the model is that when the stimulus direction is along an eigenvector, the trajectory in velocity space is a straight line. Using the &quot;spectral width&quot; of the residuals from a straight line sequence during OKAN, we developed a methodology to estimate how close the OKAN decay was to an eigenvector trajectory. 6. Thus we have developed a model-based approach for studying and interpreting the response characteristics of velocity storage in three dimensions.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Peptidergic neurons and neurosecretory cells often contain multiple peptides, where they may be present in characteristic ratios. In this article, we describe how a set of five colocalized and coreleased peptides, two adipokinetic hormones (AKH I and AKH II), and three dimeric peptides (APRP 1, 2, and 3) are synthesized by the neurosecretory cells of the corpora cardiaca of the locust Schistocerca gregaria. We show that the five peptides are produced from two prohormones called pro-AKH I, or A-chain, and pro-AKH II, or B-chain. The amino acid sequences as determined by direct protein sequencing are given for both. Prior to processing, the two prohormones form the three possible dimers by the oxidation of the single cysteine residues found in each. The dimers, not the prohormones, are the direct precursors of the peptides. The dimeric precursors are called P1 (A-A), P2 (A-B), and P3 (B-B). Processing results in the generation of the two AKH peptides and the three dimers called adipokinetic hormone precursor-related peptides, or APRPs. Throughout postembryonic development, we show that the ratios of the AKHs and APRPs change dramatically and systematically. We show that these changes can be explained by the differential regulation of the synthesis of the two prohormones and their random association into dimers that are then completely processed. Regulation of peptide stoichiometry may expand the potential information content of the signals generated by multipeptide-producing neurons.
Recent advances in the neurosciences have made temporal lobectomy a promising alternative for refractory seizures. Reportedly, postoperative seizure frequency decreases 95%. Specific criteria are used to determine a patient's suitability for surgery. Localization of the epileptogenic focus progresses from a series of noninvasive to gradually more invasive procedures. Pre- and postoperative management requires skilled nursing care. The nurse plays a vital role in patient and family education, observation and documentation of clinical events, physical care and psychological support.
Falls among hospitalized patients are common occurrences and can have detrimental effects on patient outcomes. Identifying high-risk patients and taking measures to prevent patient falls have been successful. The purpose of this project was to decrease the fall rate in adult neuroscience patients. This was accomplished through implementation of a patient fall prevention program. Patients were assessed for risk factors associated with patient falls. Risk factors were identified through the use of the patient's history, nursing data base and patient classification system. Patients with identified risk factors were placed on fall precautions which included interventions specifically designed to prevent patient falls. This project resulted in a decrease in the number of patient falls and increased staff awareness of the risk factors associated with falls among adult neuroscience patients.
To further characterize possible saturable transport of Ca into CSF during chronic plasma [Ca] changes, weanling rats were fed diets differing in Ca for 10 weeks. Transfer coefficients for unidirectional uptake of 45Ca and 36Cl into CSF (Kcsf) were determined 3 or 10 min after intravenous tracer injection in unanesthetized animals. In rats fed low Ca diet, Kcsfs for 45Ca and 36Cl were elevated above control, but the 45Ca/36Cl ratio for Kcsf, a more specific measure of Ca transport, was also increased. In animals fed high Ca diet, Kcsfs of both radiotracers were not statistically different from control, but the 45Ca/36Cl ratio was decreased. Injection of CaCl2 into hypocalcemic rats elevated plasma [Ca], depressed 45Ca Kcsf, and returned the 45Ca/36Cl ratio to the control value. The inverse relationship between plasma ionized [Ca] and 45Ca Kcsf was fitted to saturation kinetics with Km less than or equal to 0.53 mumol/ml, maximal Ca influx for the saturable component between 27 and 67 x 10(-5) mumol.g-1.s-1, and the passive component of Kcsf less than or equal to 15 x 10(-5) ml.g-1.s-1. We conclude that Ca transport into CSF is saturable and this transport is important in the regulation of CSF [Ca].
Neuronal growth can be controlled in vitro by plating cells at low density and by differential adhesion between the cell and substrate. Primary cultures of rat hippocampal neurons were grown in serum-free culture on polylysine-coated glass coverslips patterned by selective laser ablation so as to leave grids of polylysine with varying linewidths (3, 5, and 10 microns), intersection distance (80, 120, and 160 microns), and nodal (intersection) diameter (5, 10, and 20 microns). Not only did somae strongly prefer the unablated polylysine areas, but they also migrated to loci where the local area of unablated polylysine was higher. These loci were the nodes, as opposed to the narrow connecting paths, and larger nodes, as compared with smaller nodes. Maximum migration to nodes of 88% occurred for a combination of 5-microns path width, 20-microns node diameter, and 80-microns path length. Daily observations indicated active migration to larger adhesive areas, which explains the differential compliance.
Neurotensin and catecholamines in the central nucleus of the amygdala (CNA) have both been implicated in the integration of autonomic responses to stress. We examined whether there might be a cellular substrate for interactions involving these putative neurotransmitters in the CNA. Sections of acrolein-fixed rat brain were processed either (1) for the ultrastructural localization of a rat antiserum against neurotensin using the peroxidase-antiperoxidase (PAP) method, or (2) for the dual localization of rat neurotensin antiserum and rabbit antiserum against the catecholamine-synthesizing enzyme, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), using the PAP method and immunoautoradiography. The rat polyclonal antiserum against neurotensin was shown in immunoblots to recognize neuromedin N and Lys-Arg-neurotensin (LANT-6) in addition to neurotensin. In single and dual labeling studies, the neurotensin-like immunoreactivity (NTLI) was detected in perikarya and processes. The NTLI was localized predominantly to dense core vesicles in one group of perikarya and dendrites, while a second group had labeling both in dense core vesicles and more diffusely throughout the cytoplasm. Terminals also showed NTLI, particularly in association with dense core vesicles. The labeled terminals formed primarily symmetric junctions with both cell bodies and dendrites. In the dual labeling study, perikarya contained only NTLI while terminals contained TH and/or NTLI. Terminals containing TH or NTLI separately innervated cell bodies and dendrites displaying NTLI, and formed separate or convergent inputs onto unlabeled neuronal targets. Terminals colocalizing both TH and NTLI formed junctions only on unlabeled dendrites. These findings show that in the rat CNA two populations of neurons differ with respect to their distribution of NTLI, and that the output from neurons containing NTLI is modulated by direct synaptic input from terminals containing neurotensin and/or catecholamines. Release of neurotensin and catecholamines, most likely dopamine, from the same or separate terminals on common targets in the CNA may account for certain similarities in their stress-related functions.
Ischemia may increase glutamate release, which can lead to neuronal damage. The therapeutic value of drugs that antagonize glutamate's effects are being investigated in CNS ischemia. This study examined the efficacy of a noncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, MK-801 [(+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten- 5,10-imine hydrogen maleate], in reducing ischemic injury. We explored the limits of this therapy and different properties of MK-801 that might be involved in its neuroprotective actions. Two focal CNS ischemia models were used, a multiple cerebral embolic model (MCEM) and a rabbit spinal cord ischemia model (RSCIM). When animals were treated 5 minutes after the onset of injury, MK-801 was effective in reducing ischemic damage in both models. However, when treatment was delayed 10 minutes after the ischemic insult in the MCEM, no neuroprotection was observed even when the MK-801 dose was increased eightfold. We also did not find a beneficial effect of MK-801 pretreatment with a dose that was one tenth of the effective dose in the RSCIM. Studies using the (-) MK-801 isomer showed that MK-801 neuroprotection exhibited stereoselectivity. The contribution of anticonvulsant activity and sedation to MK-801's neuroprotective actions was examined indirectly using phenytoin and midazolam, respectively. Neither drug was effective in reducing ischemic injury in the MCEM. This suggests that MK-801's neuroprotective efficacy in ischemia is mediated through its NMDA receptor antagonist activity independent of its anticonvulsant or sedative properties. These results support the hypothesis that excessive NMDA receptor excitation may be involved in ischemic neuronal damage.
1. Electrophysiological and immunohistochemical properties during the early stages of muscle differentiation were studied in two myoblastic cell lines, mouse C2C12 and rat L6, and compared to those in myogenic clonal cells derived from the mouse mesodermal stem cell line C3H10T1/2, studied in the preceding paper. 2. Mouse C2C12 cells were induced to differentiate to muscle by changing from 10% fetal calf serum to 2% horse serum in the medium. Most of the C2C12 cells before serum reduction showed ATP-induced slow K+ current. Twelve per cent showed inward rectifier K+ current. They expressed fibronectin and Neural Cell Adhesion Molecule (NCAM). Small spindle-shaped cells at an early stage of muscle differentiation began to appear 24 h after serum reduction. In contrast to cells before serum reduction, only 13% of these spindle-shaped cells showed an ATP response. Most showed tetrodotoxin (TTX)-resistant Na+ current and outward K+ current. Thirty-eight per cent had inward rectifier K+ current. They expressed NCAM but not fibronectin. The T-type Ca2+ current was not observed up to the latest stage of differentiation investigated. 3. Rat L6 cells in maintaining culture medium showed only infrequent ATP responses, but already showed TTX-resistant Na+ current. No clear T-type Ca2+, inward rectifier K+ or outward K+ currents were observed. About one-third of the cells did not express fibronectin. From these results, L6 cells appear to be at a stage near to but slightly earlier than that of C2C12 cells after serum reduction. 4. The properties of the early stages of muscle differentiation in C3H10T1/2 cells, such as the disappearance of ATP-induced K+ current and fibronectin, and the appearance of NCAM, were also seen in C2C12 and L6. However, T-type Ca2+ and inward K+ currents, which were found in the initial stages of C3H10T1/2 muscle differentiation, were not clearly observed in C2C12 and L6. Instead, C2C12 and L6 showed a TTX-resistant Na+ current which was never observed in C3H10T1/2 cells. 5. The properties of the TTX-resistant Na+ current were investigated. In L6 cells, it was reduced to 60% by 1 microM-TTX. It could be evoked by depolarizations to a level above -50 mV with a maximum amplitude at around -15 mV. Steady-state inactivation was detectable with pre-pulses to -100 mV for 100 ms and reached half at pre-pulses of -78 mV. These parameters of inactivation are clearly different from those of the TTX-sensitive Na+ current observed in C3H10T1/2-derived mature muscle cells in the preceding paper.
1. ATP was puff applied to cells of a mesodermal stem cell line, C3H10T1/2, and the responses were studied by whole-cell patch clamp recording. 2. In 91% of the cells (90/99), K+ current lasting for tens of seconds was observed after several seconds latency. The current showed outward rectification. In 10% of the cells (9/99), ATP induced Cl- current which also lasted for tens of seconds after several seconds latency, but showed little rectification. In 6% of these cells (5/99), both K+ and Cl- currents were induced by ATP. 3. The K+ current induced by ATP was dose dependent, with a Kd of 0.4 microM. The effects of ATP analogues were tested at a concentration of 20 microM. ADP and ATP-gamma-S induced the K+ current, while AMP and adenosine did not. alpha, beta-Methylene ATP produced a diminished K+ current. 4. The ATP-induced K+ current was not observed when EGTA in the internal solution was raised from 0.1 to 5 mM. In Fluo-3-loaded cells, an increase in intracellular Ca2+ concentration induced by the application of ATP was observed, and the time course was similar to the induced K+ current. Both the increase in intracellular Ca2+ and the K+ current were induced by ATP even in Ca(2+)-free external solution. Ryanodine (50 microM) in the external solution did not affect the ATP response, and application of 10 mM-caffeine alone to the external solution did not induce any response. 5. The variance of the steady-state fluctuations in the course of the ATP-induced slow K+ current was analysed. The single-channel conductance was estimated as 2.7 pS at 0 mV with external and internal K+ concentrations of 5 and 140 mM respectively. The K+ current was not affected by apamin at concentrations of up to 1 microM but was reduced to one-third by 140 mM-tetraethylammonium (TEA). 6. It was concluded that puff-applied ATP has two main effects in the mesodermal stem cells: an increase in the intracellular Ca2+ concentration and a succeeding hyperpolarization due to the Ca(2+)-activated K+ conductance which is present in this cell. The significance of the increase in intracellular Ca2+ caused by ATP is discussed.

Previously, we purified the predominant subtype of brain nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR), analyzed its structure, and found that it was composed of two kinds of subunit, with sequences encoded by cDNAs termed alpha 4 and beta 2. Here we express these cDNAs from chicken brain in stably transfected fibroblasts. We demonstrate by synthesis that these cDNAs encode subunit polypeptides of the expected sizes, which coassemble to form receptor macromolecules having the same size as native AChRs. Additionally, we demonstrate that the expressed AChRs exhibit the ligand-binding pharmacology of native brain AChRs and function as acetylcholine-gated ion channels.
The effect of centrally and peripherally administered dopamine D1 and D2 specific compounds on core body temperature in mice was investigated. Quinpirole (LY-17155), a D2 agonist, induced a dose-dependent fall in body temperature (2.4-11.6%; p less than 0.003) when injected intraperitoneally (ip, 0.3-3.0 mg/kg) and intracerebroventricularly (icv, 0.1 mg/kg). This quinpirole-induced (1.0 mg/kg, ip) hypothermia was reversed by the central and peripheral administration of the D2 antagonists S-(-)-sulpiride (3.0-30.0 mg/kg, ip; 0.1-3.0 mg/kg, icv) and spiperone (0.03 and 0.1 mg/kg, ip; 0.03-3.0 mg/kg, icv). Domperidone, a D2 antagonist which does not cross the blood brain barrier, had no effect on quinpirole-induced hypothermia (1.0-10.0 mg/kg, ip). Domperidone partially reversed quinpirole-induced hypothermia at 0.1-30.0 mg/kg, icv. The D1 agonist, SKF-38393 at a high dose of 10.0 mg/kg, ip mildly attenuated quinpirole-induced hypothermia (a 1.8% increase in temperature). SKF-38393 at 10.0 mg/kg, icv potentiated quinpirole-induced hypothermia. SCH-23390 (0.1-3.0 mg/kg, ip), a D1 antagonist, had no effect on quinpirole-induced hypothermia and potentiated the hypothermia when administered icv. An ineffective icv dose of spiperone (0.01 mg/kg) in reversing quinpirole-induced hypothermia was rendered effective by prior administration of SCH-23390 (0.1-3.0 mg/kg, icv) but not by SKF-38393 (1.0-10.0 mg/kg, icv). These data suggest a central D2 receptor mechanism mediating hypothermia in mice which is capable of being modulated by the D1 receptor.
We measured sequential plasma and CSF levodopa and CSF dopamine sulfate levels following a single dose of levodopa/carbidopa in two patients with advanced Parkinson's disease (PD). We obtained CSF from an Ommaya reservoir implanted in the lateral ventricle several months earlier at the time of transplantation of adrenal medulla to caudate nucleus and could detect dopamine only in its sulfconjugated form. Peak CSF levodopa and dopamine sulfate levels occurred 1 to 1.5 hours after peak plasma concentration of levodopa. The time course of clinical improvement and worsening correlated precisely with the appearance and disappearance of both levodopa and dopamine sulfate in the CSF. The precise correlation between CSF dopamine sulfate and levodopa indicates that in patients with advanced PD the brain retains some capacity to convert levodopa to dopamine. The transient nature of the correlation between motor fluctuations, CSF levodopa, and CSF dopamine sulfate is consistent with suggestions that in patients with advanced PD there is a diminished capacity to store dopamine synthesized from exogenous levodopa. Dopamine sulfate appears to be a useful index of the availability of dopamine in the parkinsonian brain.
Monozygotic (MZ) twin pairs concordant for dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT) or for proven Alzheimer's disease (AD) have a significantly higher frequency of a positive family history (DAT or AD in at least one first-degree relative, p less than 0.002) than do discordant MZ twin pairs, consistent with a lesser predicted distribution of proportions of surviving first-degree relatives without DAT (or AD) (p less than 0.001). The results suggest that concordant MZ twin pairs with DAT (or AD) have a heritable form of disease. AD in discordant twins may result from environmental influences or from a somatic chromosomal change following zygotic division.

Nitric oxide is a free radical that has been recently recognized as a neural messenger molecule. Nitric oxide synthase has now been purified and molecularly cloned from brain. Using specific antibodies and oligonucleotide probes, we have localized brain nitric oxide synthase to discrete neuronal populations in the rat and primate brain. Nitric oxide synthase is exclusively neuronal, and its localization is absolutely coincident with NADPH diaphorase staining in both rat and primate.
Although L-type voltage-sensitive calcium channels (VSCCs) have been well characterized electrophysiologically, their role in synaptic physiology has remained unclear. To assess their involvement in synaptic regulation of gene expression, we have examined the effects of selective VSCC antagonists on basal, synaptically mediated activation of several transcription factor genes in cultured cortical neurons. Basal expression of c-fos, jun-B, zif268, and fos-B is rapidly suppressed by exposure to L-type VSCC antagonists and increased by (-)BayK-8644, a VSCC agonist. Although VSCC antagonists block kainate-induced rises in intracellular calcium and gene expression, these agents have little effect on spontaneous electrical activity or synaptically induced calcium transients in these neurons. These findings suggest that even though L-type VSCCs contribute a relatively minor component of synaptic calcium transients, they appear to play a key role in coupling synaptic excitation to activation of transcriptional events thought to contribute to neuronal plasticity.
Rats received a unilateral lesion of the nucleus basalis by infusion of ibotenic acid. Two weeks after the lesion, osmotic minipumps were implanted, that infused 1 microgram human recombinant nerve growth factor (NGF) or cytochrome-C per day into the lateral ventricle. After four weeks of treatment, release of acetylcholine was measured in the frontal neocortex by means of in-vivo microdialysis. Release was decreased by 75% on the lesioned side; perfusion with 100 mM KCl increased release on the intact side by 130% and on the lesioned side by 80%. Treatment with NGF increased release on the lesioned side twofold, but had no effect on release on the intact side.
Antisense oligonucleotides can be used in cell cultures to inhibit biosynthesis of neurotransmitter receptors. Hence, they operate as highly specific pharmacological antagonists. In obtaining a pure neuronal primary culture the suppression of non-neuronal cell proliferation is required; usually 1-beta-D-arabinofuranosylcytosine (AraC) is used. We report that in primary cultures of rat cerebellar cells, oligonucleotides, targeted to: (1) glutamate receptor, (2) the seven transmembrane spanning region of receptors coupled to GTP binding proteins, and (3) beta-adrenergic receptor kinase, nonspecifically inhibit the cell incorporation of 3H-AraC and curtail its antiproliferative action. This nonspecific action might occur at the level of the mechanism of action of AraC and should be taken into account when antisense probes as pharmacological antagonists are used.
The rostro-caudal distribution of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) in the hypothalamus of neonatally estrogenized (10 micrograms EB for 1-5 days), sterile female rats was compared with that of cycling rats at 50, 100 and 240 days of age. Serial slices of 400 microns in thickness in total were cut from a hypothalamic block, and the LHRH content of each slice was measured by radioimmunoassay. Two peaks of LHRH in the rostro-caudal direction were apparent in all groups. The rostral peak corresponded to the LHRH-producing cells in the septal-preoptic region and storage of LHRH in the organum vasculosum lamina terminalis (OVLT), while the caudal peak corresponded to that of LHRH in the median eminence. Thus, the total LHRH content of the regions of the hypothalamus was calculated separately either anterior or posterior to the suprachiasmatic nucleus, which were designated as the rostral hypothalamus (RH) and mediobasal hypothalamus (MBH), respectively. The total content of LHRH in the 50-day-old sterile rats was significantly higher than that in the estrous females in both RH and MBH. This was also true for the MBH of 240-day-old sterile females in comparison to that of estrous females but not so in 100-day-old females. The present results suggest that sterility in neonatally estrogenized rats is not due to a reduction in LHRH content of the hypothalamus but, rather, is due to changes in LHRH-releasing systems. Furthermore, in the control females, ovariectomy performed at 22 days of age induced a striking decrease in LHRH content in the MBH at 50 days of age, while it remained unchanged after ovariectomy in the neonatally estrogenized sterile rats. These findings suggest that the hypothalamic mechanism involved in the release of LHRH after ovariectomy was damaged by neonatal treatment with estrogen.

A 25-year-old man was hospitalized after suffering a subarachnoid hemorrhage. Arteriograms disclosed two arteriovenous malformations, one of which was asymptomatic. Rendu-Osler-Weber disease was suspected because of the concomitant existence of cutaneous telangiectases. Review of the literature shows that in 12 previously published cases involving multiple arteriovenous malformations, this diagnosis was established five times. The indications for surgical treatment are discussed.
Numerous examples exist where neurotoxins have been shown to induce selective death of certain groups of nerve cells. While the peripheral nerves are particularly vulnerable, neurotoxins are also capable of generating models of the major degenerative disorders of the central nervous system: dementia of Alzheimer's type, Parkinsonism, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Important organic toxins, in this context, include certain pyridines, amines, aminoacids, nitriles, hexacarbons, and sulphides. Inorganic toxins include free radicals and certain metals. Toxins may also be classified according to their origin--exogenous or endogenous. This review will not consider neurological damage that can result from exposure to alcohol, or neurological adverse reactions to medications.


To determine whether mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) fragments found within the nucleus are transcribed, we have differentially screened a HeLaTG cDNA library. A clone that hybridized to mtDNA as well as to c-myc was identified. Analysis of the cDNA disclosed that it contained a mtDNA sequence, encoding cytochrome-c oxidase subunit III (coxIII) that was contiguous with and 5' of a c-myc sequence corresponding to part of exon 2 and exon 3. Hybridization of ScaI-digested DNA with a 1.05 kb c-myc probe revealed a unique band in HeLaTG cells, as well as a band common to HeLaTG and 13 other cell types examined. Solution hybridization of HeLaTG RNA with a radiolabeled, single-stranded cDNA probe containing the coxIII-c-myc junction demonstrated a nuclease-resistant band that matched the full length of the junctional cDNA probe. A smaller band that equaled the size of the c-myc portion alone was also detected. Only the smaller band coinciding with the c-myc sequences was protected from nuclease digestion by RNA from other cells. When a radiolabeled probe synthesized in the opposite orientation was used, nuclease-resistant bands equal in length to the coxIII portion of the probe were detected after hybridization with RNA from all cells. These results indicate that insertion of mtDNA fragments into nuclear genes occurs and that subsequent transcription of a 'chimaeric' or 'fusion' mRNA containing both mitochondrial and nuclear sequences can ensue.
A role for sensitization of nociceptors in the generation of primary hyperalgesia is well documented. More recent work has begun to define a role of an increased excitability of neurons within the spinal cord in the generation of secondary hyperalgesia. The present study demonstrates increased responses of primate spinothalamic neurons following co-administration of N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) and substance P (SP) by micro-iontophoresis. Wide dynamic range and high threshold STT neurons in laminae I-VI showed an increased frequency of discharges following application of NMDA which was characterized by a slow onset to peak discharge rate and a slow return to background levels of discharge. Combined application of NMDA with SP resulted in an enhancement of responses to NMDA that often long outlasted the administration of SP. This increase in response of the cells to NMDA was not produced by repeated application of NMDA alone or following combined application of NMDA with an SP analog. NMDA responses were reduced or prevented in all cases by co-application of an NMDA-receptor antagonist. Finally, long-lasting potentiation of NMDA responses by SP was paralleled by enhanced responses to mechanical stimulation of skin. It is proposed that a mechanism involving the combined synaptic release of excitatory amino acids and peptides leads to secondary hyperalgesia.
The relationships between four relevant Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory variables and temporal lobe signs and symptoms were determined separately for 70 university men and 86 women. Canonical correlations were similar in magnitude (0.55 to 0.60) but indicated sex-specific construction of the roots. For men the significant variables were the schizoid and complex partial epileptic-like signs; for women the significant variables were hypomania and all three temporal lobe clusters: complex partial seizure experiences, interictal-like signs, and religious/psi phenomenology.
Mirror movements are involuntary movements executed by one side of the body that occur with voluntary activation of homologous muscles of the other side. Although such movements have been described qualitatively and with surface EMG recordings, the spatial and temporal characteristics of these movements remain relatively unexplored. We studied selected simple and complex upper limb movements in a 20-yr.-old woman with congenital mirror movements and no other neurological disorder. Movements were digitized in three-dimensional space, reconstructed computergraphically, and analyzed numerically and graphically. Mirror movements had smaller amplitudes than did the corresponding voluntary movements, and there was, in general, temporal coupling between mirror and voluntary movements. Nonetheless, mirror movements were not always a perfect mirror image of the corresponding voluntary movements and sometimes differed in timing and trajectory shape from the original movement. Substantially larger mirror movements were elicited by distal than by proximal movements, and mirror movements were enhanced when loads were applied to the hand executing the voluntary movement. These data support the proposal that congenital mirror movements are produced by a partial failure of decussation of the pyramidal tract. We suggest that the variability in the extent to which mirror movements correspond to the voluntary movements is due to propriospinal and descending extrapyramidal input.
If an observer's fixation point is extinguished just prior to the onset of a peripheral target, the latency to saccade to that target is reduced. We show that this &quot;gap effect&quot; is not specific to visual targets. Observers made saccades to a light flash or to a white-noise burst. A warning tone was presented on every trial to control for the possible warning effect of the fixation-point offset. For both target modalities, saccade latencies were significantly reduced when the fixation point was extinguished 200 msec prior to the target onset. Implications of this outcome for interpretations of the gap effect are considered. It is argued that the presence of a gap effect for tones, in conjunction with previous findings, is consistent with the hypothesis that the gap effect is produced by a facilitation of premotor processes in the superior colliculus.
In a continuous-running-memory task, subjects heard novel seven-note melodies that were tested after delays of 11 sec (empty) or 39 sec (filled). Test items were transposed to new pitch levels (to moderately distant keys in the musical sense) and included exact transpositions (targets), same-contour lures with altered pitch intervals, and new-contour lures. Melodies differed in tonal strength (degree of conformity to a musical key) and were tonally strong, tonally weak, or atonal. False alarms to same-contour lures decreased over the longer delay period, but only for tonal stimuli. In agreement with previous studies, discrimination of detailed changes in pitch intervals improved with increased delay, whereas discrimination of more global contour information declined, again only for tonal stimuli. These results suggest that poor short-delay performance in rejecting same-contour lures arises from confusion that is based on the similarity of tonality between standard stimuli and lures. If a test item has the same contour and a similar tonality to a just-presented item, subjects tend to accept it. After a delay filled with melodies in other tonalities, the salience of key information recedes, and subjects base their judgments on more detailed pattern information (namely, exact pitch intervals). The fact that tonality affects judgments of melodic contour indicates that contour is not an entirely separable feature of melodies but rather that a melody with its contour constitutes an integrated perceptual whole.
Gap junctions are formed by a family of homologous proteins termed connexins. Their channels are dodecamers, and homomeric forms differ in their properties with respect to control by voltage and other gating stimuli. We report here the properties of coupling from expression of connexin complementary RNAs (cRNAs; sense to mRNA, antisense to cDNA) in Xenopus oocyte pairs in which endogenous coupling was blocked by injection of DNA oligonucleotides antisense to the mRNA of Cx38, the principal endogenous connexin. We found that a connexin recently sequenced from rat liver, Cx26, formed functional gap junctions whose conductance exhibited voltage dependence with unusual characteristics suggestive of two gating mechanisms. Junctional conductance (gj) was increased to a small degree by depolarization and decreased by hyperpolarization of either cell in a coupled pair, indicating dependence on the potential between the inside and outside of the cells (Vi-o). These changes were fast compared with the resolution of their measurement (ca. 10 ms). On a slower timescale, large transjunctional potentials (Vj) of either sign caused a more substantial decrease in conductance similar to that previously reported for several other gap junctions. Homotypic junctions formed of another connexin, Cx32, exhibited a similar slow dependence on Vj but no dependence on Vi-o. In contrast, heterotypic junctions between an oocyte expressing Cx26 and one expressing Cx32 were electrically asymmetric; they exhibited a greater fast change in gj, which depended, however, on Vj, such that gj increased with relative positivity on the Cx26 side and decreased with relative negativity on the Cx26 side. There was also a large slow decrease in gj in response to Vj for relative positivity on the Cx26 side but not for Vj of the opposite sign. These data indicate that properties of the hemichannels contributed by the two connexins in the heterotypic case were changed from their properties in homotypic junctions. The fast change in gj may involve a mechanism analogous to that at fast rectifying electrical synapses. Experiments in which oocytes expressing Cx32 were paired with oocytes expressing both Cx26 and Cx32 demonstrated that asymmetric junctions would form between oocytes expressing both connexins, thereby confirming their potential relevance in vivo, where the same coupled cells are known to express both proteins.
Twelve patients with La Peyronie disease underwent complete neurophysiological investigation of the perineum including evaluation of the nerve conduction velocity of the dorsal nerve of the penis. A significant reduction was observed in this velocity with a reduction in the amplitude of the sensory potential in patients with associated disorders of erection or sensory disturbances (paraestesiae of the glans). A compressive lesion of the dorsal nerve by hard nodules buried in the dermis of the dorsal surface of the penis was suspected.
One limitation of averaging individual late component event related potential (ERP) responses is that a single average ERP cannot reflect the variability of responses from epoch to epoch. In this article, we describe a method to quantify this variability and determine if any part of the overall ERP reflects a maximum variance through the use of response variance curves. We then apply this method to one disorder, schizophrenia, in which variability of information processing is hypothesized to underlie aspects of the symptomatology. Response variance curves in a group of unmedicated schizophrenic patients reveal systematic differences, maximal between 190 and 250 ms, compared with those in a group of medicated schizophrenic patients and normal control subjects.




We studied the clinical features of 85 cases of phenytoin toxicity in 76 patients treated at a general hospital. Serum levels of phenytoin on admission ranged from 30.3 to 95.0 micrograms/mL (median, 46.5). Iatrogenic causes of intoxication were common and included increased daily dosage and intravenous loading in the emergency room for single seizures in patients with subtherapeutic serum phenytoin levels. The most frequent neurologic findings were nystagmus (95%), ataxia (88%), lethargy (22%), and seizures (19%). Outcome was usually good, but three patients had serious complications.
The case of a middle cerebral artery vasospasm following subarachnoid hemorrhage is discussed. The effectiveness of treating the vasospasm with calcitonin gene-related peptide is illustrated.
Extracellular recordings from identified dopamine neurons were used to assess the effect of 6-hydroxydopamine-induced partial lesions of the nigrostriatal dopamine system on the sensitivity of the residual dopamine neurons to the dopamine agonist apomorphine. This was done by testing the response of identified nigral dopamine neurons in control and lesioned rats to systemic apomorphine administration at two time points: 1) 6-10 days post-lesion, when the loss of dopamine cells is nearly complete, and 2) 4-8 weeks post-lesion, which should be sufficient time for changes in dopamine receptor density to occur. As reported previously, dopamine neurons in control rats were inhibited by systemic administration of apomorphine, with their sensitivity being inversely related to their initial firing rate. The sensitivity of the residual dopamine neurons to apomorphine was unaltered in rats tested 6-10 days after depletions of at least 60% of striatal dopamine. However, by 4-8 weeks post-lesion, there was a significant increase in the sensitivity to apomorphine; furthermore, sensitivity was no longer related to baseline firing rate, but instead was uniformly high in all dopamine neurons tested at this time. This enhanced sensitivity was not altered by hemisection of the striatonigral projection, suggesting that the increased sensitivity to apomorphine was most likely a result of a time-dependent up-regulation of somatodendritic autoreceptors on the residual dopamine neurons.
Human stereopsis remains an enigma: how does the brain match features between the left and right eye images and compute disparity between these matched features? Developments in computational neuroscience and machine vision have led to several models of human stereopsis that provide insight into possible mechanisms underlying this phenomenon. These models, reviewed in this paper, adopt one of three general strategies. One class of models employs cooperative interactions, whereby a unique solution to the matching problem emerges from excitatory and inhibitory interactions among binocular neural elements. A second class of models implements matching and disparity computation serially over multiple spatial scales. A third class relies on local, non-interacting computations performed in parallel to overcome speed limitations inherent in the other models. Considered together, these theoretical developments offer fresh insights concerning the actual neural concomitants of binocular stereopsis.
A genetic analysis of mammalian neuronal physiology might now be possible due to the development of defective herpes simplex virus vectors, which allow gene transfer directly into mature neurons, in culture or in the adult brain. Genetically altered proteins that play critical roles in neuronal physiology, including those responsible for the generation of action potentials, synthesis and release of neurotransmitters, and signal transduction enzymes, can now be stably expressed in neurons. The effect of such altered proteins on neuronal physiology can therefore be examined, using the tools of modern neuroscience. Genetic manipulation is biochemically specific and stable, and can be targeted both to a particular cell type and to a particular subregion of the cell to yield insights into the molecular basis for specific brain functions.
We examined the effects of imipramine on cytosolic Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) in rat fronto-cortical cultured neurons exposed to various treatments (high K+, acetylcholine; ACh or noradrenaline; NA) using the Ca(2+)-sensitive dye fura-2. Imipramine inhibited high K(+)-induced [Ca2+]i increases with IC50 value of 71 microM, after washing the cells free of the drug, these effects were abolished. ACh and NA increased [Ca2+]i in a dose-dependent manner. Imipramine also inhibited ACh- and NA-induced [Ca2+]i increases with IC50 values of 3.7 and 4.1 microM, respectively. These results indicated that imipramine inhibited the high K(+)-induced [Ca2+]i increase by the blockade of voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels, and the ACh- and NA-induced ]Ca2+i increases by the blockade of muscarinic receptors and alpha 1-adrenoceptors, respectively. Moreover, imipramine abolished the [Ca2+]i oscillations, periodic fluctuations in [Ca2+]i were observed in a few cells only. Because [Ca2+]i oscillations were mediated by not only voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels, but also various receptors, it was likely that the inhibition of [Ca2+]i oscillations by imipramine was due to the blockade of voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels, muscarinic receptors or alpha 1-adrenoceptors.
GAP-43-immunolabelled structures were visualized by electron microscopy in the adult rat L4-L5 superficial dorsal horn 2 weeks after sciatic nerve transection. The majority of immunolabelled elements were unmyelinated axons, but some synaptic terminals and myelinated axons also labelled. The labelled unmyelinated axons were commonly located in prominent bundles which on serial section analysis could be followed into larger single trunks. These enlargements contain many organelles and give rise to smaller processes, which is compatible with their being growth cones. Sciatic nerve transection may result, therefore, in central regenerative processes which reorganize the neuropil and contribute to the decreased sensibility and pain that follows peripheral nerve section.

We have measured the chromatic threshold sensitivity to stimuli with spectral composition determined by a periodic function of energy over wavelength. This approach is analogous to frequency studies of spatial vision for the study of colour. A device was constructed permitting the synthesis of illuminants over the entire visible range (400-700 nm) in which phase, frequency and amplitude can be independently controlled. We have used 12 frequencies of square-wave functions (from 0.5 to 3.6 cycles/300 nm) and seven values of phase (between 0 degrees and 180 degrees) to obtain the contrast sensitivity function of the chromatic system in three normal trichromats. The results show maximum sensitivity around 1.5 cycles/300 nm and a high-frequency cut-off at 3.6 cycles/300 nm. These empirical values are compared with the predictions obtained from three current psychophysical models of opponent-colour process.
The time at which a neuron is &quot;born&quot; appears to have significant consequences for the cell's subsequent differentiation. As part of a continuing investigation of cholinergic neuronal development, we have combined ChAT immunocytochemistry and [3H]thymidine autoradiography to determine the generation patterns of somatic and autonomic motor neurons at upper thoracic (T1-3), upper lumbar (L1-3), and lumbosacral (L6-S1) levels of the rat spinal cord. Additionally, the generation patterns of two subsets of cholinergic interneurons (partition cells and central canal cluster cells) were compared with those of somatic and autonomic motor neurons. Embryonic day 11 (E11) was the first day of cholinergic neuronal generation at each of the three spinal levels studied, and it also was the peak generation day for somatic and autonomic neurons in the upper thoracic spinal cord. The peak generation of homologous neurons at upper lumbar and lumbosacral spinal levels occurred at E12 and E13, respectively. Somatic and autonomic motor neurons were generated synchronously, and their production at each rostrocaudal level was virtually completed within a 2-day period. Cholinergic interneurons were generated 1 or 2 days later than motor neurons at the same rostrocaudal level. In summary, the birthdays of all spinal cholinergic neurons studied followed the general rostrocaudal spatiotemporal gradient of spinal neurogenesis. In addition, the generation of cholinergic interneurons also followed the general ventrodorsal gradient. In contrast, however, autonomic motor neurons disobeyed the rule of a ventral-to-dorsal progression of spinal neuronal generation, thus adding another example in which autonomic motor neurons display unusual developmental patterns.
Central termination patterns of afferents from the hands of squirrel monkeys were studied after subdermal injections of wheat germ agglutinin conjugated with horseradish peroxidase (WGA-HRP) or cholera toxin subunit B conjugated to HRP (BHRP). WGA-HRP more effectively labeled axons terminating in the superficial dorsal horn of the spinal cord, while BHRP more effectively labeled axons terminating in the deeper layers. Injections of both tracers, when restricted to parts of glabrous digits, palm, or dorsal hand, revealed somatotopic patterns in the spinal cord and pars rotunda of the cuneate nucleus that were, in some respects, similar and, in other respects, quite different from those previously reported for macaque monkey (Florence et al., J. Comp. Neurol. 286:48-70, '89). As in macaques, injections in digits 1-5 produced a rostrocaudal sequence of foci of terminations in the cervical spinal cord. However, inputs from the palm were located medial to those from the digits, whereas the palm is represented lateral to the digits in macaque monkeys. Since inputs from the palm is also medial in the dorsal horn in cats (Nyberg and Blomqvist, J. Comp. Neurol. 242:28-39, '85), the condition in squirrel monkeys may be similar to the generalized state. In the cuneate nucleus, single injections in the hand produced dense label in the pars rotunda, and sparse label in the rostral and caudal poles. As in macaque monkeys, inputs from specific parts of the hand related to rostrocaudal clusters of cells that are cytochrome oxidase dense. The representation of the digits differed from macaques in that the digits were represented dorsal to the palm, rather that ventral to the palm as in macaques. Again, comparisons with cats suggest that squirrel monkeys have the more generalized pattern. Finally, inputs from the hair, dorsal surfaces of the digits terminated on the same clusters as the inputs from the glabrous, ventral surfaces, apparently overlapping somewhat. The proximity of these terminations from dorsal and ventral surfaces of the digits may be related to observations that cortical representations of the glabrous surfaces of digits become responsive to dorsal surfaces of the same digits when inputs from glabrous skin are chronically deactivated (e.g., Merzenich et al., Neuroscience 3:33-55, '83).

Changes in multicatalytic proteinase activity during differentiation were investigated using Me2SO-induced differentiation of murine erythroleukemia cells as a model. The apparent ATP-dependent multicatalytic proteinase activity decreased in the Me2SO-treated cells with ATP-dependent incorporation of [3H]diisopropyl fluorophosphate decreasing notably after Me2SO-treatment. This decrease in activity does not seem to arise from a cessation of cell-proliferation, because no significant changes in proteinase activity were observed under different culture conditions. Hydroxyapatite column chromatography was employed to analyze the form of multicatalytic proteinase. It was clearly demonstrated that the 26S form of the proteinase decrease in the differentiated cells relative to normal cells. Multicatalytic proteinase-associated proteins that bind to the proteinase in an ATP-dependent manner were purified on an anti-multicatalytic proteinase IgG conjugated column. Only a small amount of protein was recovered from the differentiated cells. These results suggest that the decrease in multicatalytic proteinase-associated proteins that occurs upon cell-differentiation abolishes the ATP-dependent activity of the proteinase.
The effect of medial forebrain bundle (MFB) stimulation on neostriatal dopamine levels was examined using in vivo microdialysis in urethane-anesthetized and awake, freely-moving rats in conjunction with single unit extracellular recordings from antidromically identified nigral dopaminergic neurons. Dialysis samples were collected during baseline periods or while stimulating the MFB with trains of 5 or 10 pulses at different frequencies within a physiologically relevant range. When the perfusion solution contained 1.2 mM Ca2+, even intense, high frequency stimulation was ineffective at producing significant elevations in neostriatal dopamine levels whereas cocaine or amphetamine reliably caused several-fold elevations in dopamine levels. When the perfusate contained 2.4 mM Ca2+, modest MFB stimulation within the range of spontaneous nigral cell firing produced large and reliable increases in dopamine levels. There was a significant correlation between the proportion of dopaminergic neurons that could be antidromically activated from the MFB and the increase in neostriatal dopamine. There was no effect of stimulus pattern on the increase in dopamine levels, and results obtained in awake, freely-moving animals did not differ from those obtained in anesthetized animals. These data provide good evidence that in vivo microdialysis is sensitive to neostriatal dopamine overflow evoked by stimulation within the normal rate of firing of nigrostriatal neurons and that Ringer's Ca2+ concentration is a critical variable in the detection of stimulus-induced release of dopamine.
The induction of progestin receptors by estradiol in the mediobasal hypothalamus (MBH) has been correlated with progesterone facilitation of sexual receptivity in female guinea pigs. We used an immunocytochemical technique to visualize the induction of progestin receptors by estradiol in a population of neurons correlated with estradiol-induced responsiveness to progesterone. Progestin receptor-immunoreactivity (PR-IR) and responsiveness to progesterone-facilitation of sexual behavior were induced by intracranial implantation of small bilateral cannulae (28- or 33-gauge) containing 1 or 10% estradiol diluted with cholesterol. In the first experiment, 28-gauge cannulae containing estradiol were effective only when implanted in the rostral part of the MBH. In the second experiment in which 33-gauge cannulae were used, behavioral responsiveness to progesterone was induced only when the cannulae were localized bilaterally in the rostro-ventral part of the ventrolateral hypothalamus (VLH). The presence of estradiol-induced PR-IR within the rostro-ventral VLH was correlated with the ability of progesterone to facilitate sexual behavior. These data suggest that neurons containing estrogen-induced progestin receptors specifically within the rostro-ventral VLH are involved in progesterone facilitation of sexual receptivity in estradiol-primed guinea pigs.
The diencephalic prepacemaker nucleus (PPn) is a bilateral cluster of neurons that controls frequency modulations of the otherwise very regular electric organ discharge cycle in weakly electric knifefish, Eigenmannia. Ultrastructural evidence had suggested that the action of excitatory and inhibitory synapses contacting PPn neurons is modulated by neuropeptides. In this investigation, we examined the distribution of somatostatin-like immunoreactive (S-IR) structures in the region of the PPn. In transverse sections, we found 5 bilateral S-IR structures in the region of the PPn: a 'dorsohorizontal stripe'; a 'lateral cell group'; a 'diagonal stripe'; a 'tubercular stripe'; and a 'hypothalamic stripe'. The dorsohorizontal stripe, consisting of S-IR fibers, terminals, and roughly 200 cell bodies unilaterally, stretches from the edge of the third ventricle at the thalamic dorsal-posterior nucleus and the central posterior nucleus approximately 400 microns laterally to the PPn. S-IR cell bodies show a distinct pattern of distribution within this stripe. Almost half of the somata are located within 50 microns of the ventricle. These ventricular cells are small and often densely clustered. Laterally, towards the PPn, the number of labelled cells decreases, whereas their size gradually increases. The lateral cell group consists of roughly 20 somata in the medial region of the subelectrosensorius nucleus. Fibers of the diagonal stripe travel from the hypothalamus dorsalis to the PPn. Fibers of the tubercular stripe originate from S-IR cell bodies in the medial zone of the periventricular nucleus of the posterior tuberculum and merge with the diagonal stripe. Fibers of the hypothalamic stripe connect the hypothalamus lateralis and the diagonal stripe. The density of immunolabelling in the hypothalamic stripe is significantly higher in mature than in immature females.
The NMDA and AMPA receptors have been shown to play critical roles in various forms of synaptic plasticity (learning and memory, long-term potentiation). The present study investigated the involvement of these two receptors in a well-characterized classical conditioning paradigm. Following classical conditioning of the rabbit nictitating membrane the binding properties of these two subclasses of excitatory amino acid transmitter receptors were analyzed in dorsal hippocampi by quantitative autoradiography. [3H] TCP and [3H] AMPA were used to identify the NMDA and AMPA receptors, respectively. The binding of [3H]TCP to the NMDA receptor remained unchanged in all the experimental groups tested. Paired presentations of the conditioned and unconditioned stimuli resulted in increased [3H] AMPA binding to the AMPA receptor in several subfields of the hippocampus, while unpaired presentations had no significant effects. The increase in binding was due to an increased affinity of the low-affinity component of the AMPA receptor. The results support the hypothesis that changes in glutamate receptors participate in the synaptic plasticity involved in certain forms of learning.
We have examined the effect of age on the binding of (+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]-cyclohepten-5,10-imine maleate (MK-801) in the cat visual cortex. We hypothesized that this binding might change with age because: (1) MK-801 binds to a site associated with the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor; (2) the NMDA receptor complex has been implicated in neural plasticity; (3) plasticity in the cat visual cortex is age dependent. We used standard receptor binding techniques to measure MK-801 binding in membrane homogenates in cats aged 7 days (d), 21 d, 43 d, 83 d, 7-8 months (mo) and over 2 years. Glutamate (100 microM), glycine (30 microM) and spermidine (20 microM) were used to enhance binding. We found that MK-801 binding is maximal at about 6 weeks of age, decreases slightly by 83 days and then decreases more dramatically in adults. Saturation analysis showed that the of binding with age resulted from variation in number of binding sites and not from variation in affinity. The ability of Mg2+ to inhibit MK-801 binding did not change with age. Dark rearing did not alter the development of MK-801 binding sites.

The biosynthesis of alpha-amidated peptides from their glycine-extended precursors is catalyzed by the sequential action of peptidylglycine alpha-hydroxylating monooxygenase (PHM) and peptidyl-alpha-hydroxyglycine alpha-amidating lyase (PAL). The two enzymes are part of a bifunctional, integral membrane protein precursor, peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM). The major forms of PAM mRNA in the adult rat atrium differ by the presence or absence of optional exon A, a 315-nucleotide segment separating the PHM and PAL domains. Using antipeptide antibodies specific to the PHM, exon A, PAL, and cytoplasmic domains of rat PAM, carbonate-washed atrial membranes were found to contain proteins corresponding to rPAM-1 and rPAM-2. Digestion of atrial membranes with a variety of endoproteinases released PHM and PAL catalytic activities. Dose-response curves indicated that both catalytic activities were extremely resistant to inactivation by trypsin. Endoproteolytic digestion of atrial membranes with trypsin, chymotrypsin, elastase, thermolysin, or endoproteinase Lys-C generated a 35-kDa PHM fragment. Digestion with trypsin, elastase, thermolysin, or endoproteinase Lys-C generated a 42-kDa PAL fragment. In contrast to the stability exhibited by the PHM and PAL domains, the cytoplasmic domain of PAM was destroyed by most of the enzymes; only digestion with endoproteinase Lys-C generated a stable fragment. Digestion with endoproteinase Arg-C removed the carboxyl-terminal tail from PAM but failed to release the PHM or PAL domains from the membranes. The PHM fragments generated by some of the endoproteinases showed a tendency to adhere to the membranes. Thus the bifunctional PAM protein consists of independent catalytic domains separated from each other and from the putative transmembrane domain by flexible regions accessible to attack by a wide variety of endoproteinases.
Dihydrotestosterone, the primary mediator of prostate growth, is synthesized in target tissues from the circulating androgen testosterone through the action of steroid 5 alpha-reductase (EC 1.3.99.5). The expression of 5 alpha-reductase and the level of 5 alpha-reductase messenger RNA in rat ventral prostate are regulated by androgens. To determine whether this control is mediated by dihydrotestosterone or testosterone, we investigated the effect of finasteride, a potent inhibitor of steroid 5 alpha-reductase, on the expression of 5 alpha-reductase in the prostate. The administration of finasteride to intact rats for 7 days caused a 55% decrease in prostate weight and an 87% decrease in 5 alpha-reductase enzyme activity. Furthermore, the restoration of prostate growth after castration and the enhancement in 5 alpha-reductase enzyme activity and 5 alpha-reductase messenger RNA level by testosterone administration were blocked by finasteride, whereas the inhibitor had no effect on dihydrotestosterone-mediated increases in 5 alpha-reductase activity or messenger RNA level. These findings indicate that dihydrotestosterone itself controls prostate growth and 5 alpha-reductase activity. They further suggest that prostate growth is controlled by a feed-forward mechanism by which formation of trace amounts of dihydrotestosterone induces 5 alpha-reductase, thereby increasing dihydrotestosterone synthesis and triggering a positive developmental cascade.

Regional brain incorporation of a radiolabeled unsaturated fatty acid, [1-14C]arachidonic acid (14C-AA), was measured in awake rats following unilateral lesioning of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis (NBM). Right-sided lesions were produced in 3-month-old, male rats by stereotaxic injection of 10 micrograms ibotenic acid. Two weeks after lesioning, rats were subjected to one of two protocols: (1) 5 min intravenous infusion of 14C-AA (170 microCi/kg); or (2) i.p. injection of arecoline (5 mg/kg), a cholinergic agonist, followed by 5 min intravenous infusion of 14C-AA. All animals were killed 15 min postinfusion. Brains were frozen and sectioned for quantitative autoradiography or were stained for acetylcholinesterase (AChE). Animals with unilateral NBM lesions displayed reduced AChE staining in prefrontal, frontal and parietal cortices of the lesioned side, but there was no right-left difference in incorporation of 14C-AA without cholinergic stimulation. Arecoline administration increased 14C-AA incorporation into the prefrontal and frontal cortices ipsilateral to the NBM lesion as compared to the contralateral side and the increase was most prominent in deeper cortical layers such as layers IV and V. Right-left differences in incorporation were not apparent in parietal, temporal, or occipital cortices, where reduction of AChE activity was minimal or absent, nor in subcortical structures. The results suggest that the intravenous 14C-AA technique combined with cholinergic stimulation can be used to detect compensatory regulation of phospholipid-coupled signal transduction caused by a deficit in cholinergic input into the cerebral cortex.
The levels of the catecholamine synthesizing enzyme, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) are known to be closely regulated by neural feedback. Moreover, we have shown that intensity of TH-immunoreactivity varies with afferent input to the A10 group of dopaminergic neurons in the rat ventral tegmental area (VTA). This region is extensively and heterogeneously innervated by GABAergic afferents that mediate a number of different behavioral responses to iontophoretically applied GABA mimetics. We sought to determine: (1) whether there was an ultrastructural substrate for GABAergic innervation of TH-immunoreactive neurons; and (2) whether detectable TH-immunoreactivity varied in proportion to their GABAergic input in the two major subdivisions of the VTA, the parabrachial pigmentosus and paranigral subnuclei. Rabbit antiserum to TH and rat antiserum to GABA were visualized in single coronal sections of acrolein-fixed rat brain using a combination of peroxidase-antiperoxidase (PAP) and immunoautoradiography (ARG) or PAP and silver-intensified immunogold (SIG). Two dual-labeling electron microscopic immunocytochemical methods were employed to optimize detection of antigens and to more accurately quantify densities of TH-immunoreactivity and types of synaptic associations. Ninety-six GABA-labeled terminals (43 in the parabrachial and 53 in the paranigral subdivisions) were examined with PAP and ARG; 462 (238 in parabrachial and 224 in paranigral subdivisions) were examined with PAP and SIG. Analyses of both subnuclei yielded similar results; thus, the data were combined. With both methods, most GABA-labeled terminals (63% for SIG, 66% for PAP) formed direct synapses with TH-labeled profiles. These synaptic specializations were symmetric, the type thought to mediate inhibition. In single sections where GABA-labeled terminals were presynaptic to TH-labeled profiles, they comprised 45% (PAP) to 54% (SIG) of the total number of synaptic inputs onto TH-labeled cell bodies and 65% (SIG) to 80% (PAP) of the synaptic input onto TH-labeled dendrites. This value would be significantly less, if the analysis included all sections containing only GABA or TH irrespective of their synaptic relationships. The density of TH-immunolabeling, whether low (light) or high (intense), was determined in PAP- and SIG-labeled tissue. By both labeling methods, the numbers of GABA-immunopositive terminals forming synapses with lightly and intensely TH-immunoreactive profiles appeared equal. However, lightly TH-labeled neurons received fewer synaptic contacts from unlabeled terminals and, consequently, received proportionally more GABA-labeled terminals. GABA-labeled and unlabeled terminals were often in direct apposition to each other and were surrounded laterally, but not separated from each other, by astrocytic processes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
In previous studies, we showed that low (nM) concentrations of opioid prolong the action potential duration (APD) of many mouse dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons via Gs-linked excitatory opioid receptors, whereas micromolar opioid levels shorten the APD via Gi/Go-linked inhibitory receptors. In addition, cholera toxin-B subunit (CTX-B) selectively blocks opioid- but not forskolin-induced prolongation of the APD in DRG neurons. Since CTX-B binds with selective high affinity to GM1 ganglioside located on the cell surface, the results suggest that GM1 plays an essential role in regulating excitatory opioid receptor functions. This hypothesis was tested by treating DRG neurons in mouse DRG-cord explants with exogenous gangliosides and determining whether the efficacy of opioid agonists in prolonging the APD is enhanced. The threshold concentration of the opioids, dynorphin(1-13) and morphine required to prolong the APD in many DRG neurons was markedly decreased from nM to fM levels after bath exposure to 10 nM to 1 microM GM1 ganglioside for less than 5 min. In contrast, GM2 and GM3 gangliosides and asialo-GM1 ganglioside were ineffective, even when DRG neurons were exposed to high concentrations (1-10 microM) for periods greater than 1 h. Although GD1a, GD1b and GQ1b gangliosides appeared to be as effective as GM1 when tested at microM concentrations for 15 min, tests at lower concentrations, shorter periods, and/or at lower temperature (24 degrees vs 34 degrees C), showed that they were significantly less effective than GM1.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The binding properties of ligands specific for two subclasses of glutamate receptors were studied by quantitative autoradiography after one hour of acute immobilization/shock stress. [3H]N-(1-(2-thienyl)cyclohexyl)-3,4-piperidine (TCP) and [3H]alpha-amino-3-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA) were used to visualize the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor and the AMPA/quisqualate receptor types, respectively. While no change was observed in the binding properties of the [3H]TCP, [3H]AMPA binding was significantly increased in several areas of the hippocampus of acutely stressed rats relative to naive controls.
A series of recent studies in our laboratory have provided evidence that opioid peptides powerfully suppress feline affective defense behavior at the level of the midbrain periaqueductal gray (PAG). In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that the central (CE) nucleus of the amygdala constitutes a significant inhibitory input to the PAG which utilizes enkephalins as its neurotransmitter or neuromodulator. Cannula-electrodes were implanted into the PAG for the elicitation of affective defense behavior as well as for infusion of opioid antagonists. Monopolar stimulating electrodes were also implanted into the central, lateral and medial amygdaloid nuclei from which suppression or facilitation of affective defense behavior could be obtained. Initially, 4 trials of concurrent, subseizure stimulation of the CE or lateral amygdala at very low (100 microA, 60 Hz) currents and PAG resulted in an immediate suppression of this response which displayed a time dependent decline after 30 min. In the next stage of the experiment, naloxone (2.7, 18.9 and 27.5 nM) was microinjected through the cannula-electrode into the PAG affective defense site and the experimental procedures noted above were repeated. Naloxone treatment (at 27.5 and 18.9 nM) blocked the suppressive effects of CE and lateral amygdaloid stimulation in a dose and time dependent manner. Further analysis revealed that this effect is likely mediated via the mu receptor since the suppressive effects of amygdaloid stimulation were blocked by the selective mu antagonist, beta-Funaltrexamine (0.05 and 0.2 nM) but not by the selective delta-antagonist, ICI 174,864 (0.7 nM).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)


Within the rat ventral tegmental area (VTA), the parabrachial pigmentosus and paranigral subdivisions are known to differ in their functional responses to injected neurotensin. These subdivisions also vary in their connections with other brain regions and in their number of neurotensin-containing perikarya as seen by light microscopy. In both subdivisions, there may be intracellular as well as synaptic relations between dopamine and neurotensin. Dopaminergic neurons are known to be physiologically activated by neurotensin (NT) and may also contain this peptide. To characterize further the cellular relationships in each subdivision, we examined the ultrastructural immunocytochemical localization of a rat antiserum against NT and a rabbit antiserum against the catecholamine-synthesizing enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) in single sections. The NT antiserum was raised against the entire peptide sequence. Immunoblots showed that the antiserum recognized the original antigen as well as the related peptides neuromedin N and lysine 8- arginine 9- neurotensin 10-13 (LANT-6). In both the parabrachial pigmentosus and paranigral subdivisions, neurotensin-like immunoreactivity (NTLI) was localized predominantly in the large (80-100 nm) dense core vesicles using the peroxidase anti-peroxidase (PAP) method. In tissue labeled for NT by the PAP method and for TH by immunoautoradiography, serial section analysis revealed that all perikarya containing NTLI (n = 19) were also TH-positive. Three times as many perikarya colocalized NTLI and TH in the parabrachial pigmentosus subdivision (n = 15) as in the paranigral subdivision (n = 4). Occasionally, a perikaryon containing TH and NTLI could be found in direct apposition to a TH-labeled perikaryon without glial separation. In contrast to perikarya and dendrites, terminals showing NTLI (38 in parabrachial pigmentosus, 29 in paranigral) lacked detectable TH labeling. Of the terminals containing NTLI whose synaptic junctions could be identified, 48% were symmetric and 10% were asymmetric. The targets of these terminals included perikarya and dendrites lacking detectable immunoreactivity (69% in parabrachial pigmentosus, 55% in paranigral), immunolabeled for TH (26% in parabrachial pigmentosus, 38% in paranigral) or containing both NTLI and TH (5% in parabrachial pigmentosus, 7% in paranigral). Single terminals containing NTLI sometimes contacted more than one neuronal target, some of which were apposed to each other without glial separation. TH-labeled terminals synapsed onto double-labeled perikarya in the paranigral subdivision, but were not observed to do so in the parabrachial pigmentosus subdivision.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Receptor channels activated by glutamate, an excitatory neurotransmitter in the mammalian brain, are involved in processes such as long-term potentiation and excitotoxicity. Studies of glutamate receptor channels expressed in cultured hippocampal pyramidal neurons reveal that these channels are subject to neuromodulatory regulation through the adenylate cyclase cascade. The whole-cell current response to glutamate and kainate [a non-NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) receptor agonist] was enhanced by forskolin, an activator of adenylate cyclase. Single-channel analysis revealed that an adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate-dependent protein kinase (PKA) increases the opening frequency and the mean open time of the non-NMDA-type glutamate receptor channels. Analysis of synaptic events indicated that forskolin, acting through PKA, increased the amplitude and decay time of spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents.
Previous work suggests that noncompetitive inhibitor (NCI) ligands and channel permeant cations bind to sites within the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor ion channel. We have used ethidium as a fluorescent probe of the NCI site to investigate interactions between NCI ligands and channel permeant cations. We found that ethidium can be completely displaced from the receptor by a variety of inorganic monovalent and divalent cations. The rank order of monovalent cation affinities was found to be Tl+ greater than Rb+ greater than or equal to K+ greater than Cs+ greater than Na+ greater than Li+. The monovalent cation Kd values vary markedly over a 40-fold range, from 3 to 121 mM. The Kd values and rank order correspond to values determined previously from electrophysiological data. Hill plots of the back titrations yield slopes of 1.0 for all monovalent cations, indicating a single class of independent sites, as shown previously for NCI ligands. Scatchard analysis of ethidium binding in the presence of Tl+ reveals a reduction in affinity and no changes in the maximal number of sites. In the presence of agonist the kinetics of ethidium dissociation induced by the addition of phencyclidine or cations alone or the simultaneous addition of both are nearly identical. The ethidium dissociation rate induced by either phencyclidine or cations is regulated by the occupation of the agonist sites in a similar manner. These results indicate that the effect of cations on NCI ligand binding occurs by mutually exclusive competition. We suggest that NCIs can regulate cation binding at a physiological cation recognition site that is likely part of the cation permeation path through the receptor channel.
The cDNAs encoding the alpha and beta subunits of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaM kinase II) were ligated into the bacterial expression vector pET and expressed in Escherichia coli. The bacterially expressed alpha and beta subunits exhibited Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent activity and were easily purified to apparent homogeneity from cell extracts. To determine the minimum size required for catalytic activity and the properties of the calmodulin-binding domain, mutated CaM kinase II cDNAs were expressed in E. coli and the enzymatic property of expressed proteins was examined. The replacement of Thr-286 of the alpha subunit with the negatively charged amino acid Asp or that of Arg-283 with the neutral amino acid Gly induced the partially Ca2+ independent activity. The mutant enzymes alpha-I(delta 283-478) and alpha-II(delta 359-478), which truncated the C-terminal region of the alpha subunit, exhibited CaM kinase II activity and the activities of alpha-I(delta 283-478) and alpha-II(delta 359-478) were completely independent of and partially dependent on Ca2+ and calmodulin, respectively. However, the truncated protein alpha(delta 250-478), which was only 33 amino acids shorter than the alpha-I(delta 283-478) protein had no enzymatic activity, indicating that alpha-I(delta 283-478) was close to the minimum size of the active form. The mutant enzyme alpha(delta 291-315), which lacked the calmodulin-binding domain exhibited Ca2+ independent activity. The molecular mass was, however, smaller than that expected from the amino acid sequence. The mutant enzyme alpha(delta 304-315), which lacked the C-terminal half of the calmodulin-binding domain of the alpha subunit, however, exhibited Ca(2+)-independent activity without a reduction in molecular size, indicating that residues 304-315 of the alpha subunit constituted the core calmodulin-binding domain.
Bilateral intracerebroventricular injection of D-alanine (200-600 micrograms/rat) antagonized the ability of methamphetamine (1.0 mg/kg s.c.) to induce locomotor stimulation in the rat. In contrast, L-alanine (600 micrograms/rat) failed to affect the behavioral change induced by methamphetamine. The stereoselectivity parallels the potency of these amino acids as agonists for the strychnine-insensitive glycine binding site within the NMDA receptor complex. These results support the view that reduced excitatory amino acidergic neurotransmission may be involved in methamphetamine-induced hyperactivity.
Studies of the transcriptional activity of gene promoters have been greatly assisted by the widespread use of the chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) gene as a reporter gene. Previous techniques for assaying CAT enzymatic activity have utilized radioactive substrates or cofactors with the resulting complications of handling radioactive materials. We report here the development of fluorescent substrates for the CAT enzyme which form the basis of a CAT enzyme assay of enzyme kinetic parameters (Km and Vmax) and sensitivity similar to those based on radioactive substrates. Fluorescent substrates were designed as analogs of chloramphenicol and were based on the structure-function requirements of the enzyme. Several fluorophores were used to derivatize chloramphenicol base; one of the most effective was the borondipyrromethene difluoride (BODIPY) fluorophore. One BODIPY-chloramphenicol analog was found to have a Km for the purified CAT enzyme of 2 microM (compared to 12 microM for 14C-labeled chloramphenicol) and a Vmax of 120 pmole/min (compared to 180 pmol/min for the radioactive substrate). To verify its usefulness, a BODIPY--chloramphenicol-based CAT assay was used to measure transient transfection of primary cultures of ovarian granulosa cells in serum-free medium. This experimental system requires a highly sensitive assay for detecting transfected CAT gene activity. Robust expression of CAT activity was easily detected in crude cellular extracts using FluoReporter FAST CAT, a kit containing the BODIPY-chloramphenicol analog. The expression was precisely quantified by methanol extraction of the substrate and products from TLC plates and subsequent measurement of fluorescence using excitation-emission spectroscopy.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In the rat hippocampal slice, we evaluated the effects of potassium depolarization on phosphorylation of the alpha subunit of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (E1 alpha, mol. wt. approximately 41 kDa) using an in vitro back-titration assay. The in vitro back-titration phosphorylation of El alpha was maximal following 30 s of depolarization and remained elevated for up to 3 min following termination of the depolarizing pulse. Possible significance of and mechanisms for the depolarization-induced changes in E1 alpha phosphorylation are discussed.
The effects of carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone (CCCP) on spontaneous quantal transmitter release and nerve terminal ultrastructure were studied on isolated cutaneous pectoris nerve-muscle preparations from frogs that were completely paralysed by a single sublethal dose of Clostridium botulinum type A toxin (BoTx). CCCP enhanced miniature endplate potential frequency at poisoned junctions and caused a reduction in the density of clear synaptic vesicles and of large dense core vesicles in motor nerve terminals. However, the intensity of these effects was much less important than that previously reported at unpoisoned junctions. The moderate depletion of synaptic vesicles can be related to the low levels of transmitter release detected with CCCP at BoTx-poisoned terminals.


We studied the neuropathologic effects of chronic alcohol ingestion on the brains of healthy, well-nourished, male mongrel dogs. Five experimental dogs were provided 36% of their calories as ethyl alcohol for 1 year. Following killing, their brains were weighed, photographed, sectioned, and processed for computerized morphometric determinations of ventricular size, cortical thickness, and neocortical neuron and glial cell populations. Compared with a similarly handled control group, the alcoholic dog brains showed lateral ventricular enlargement, cortical thinning in the temporal lobe only, and fewer glial cells in the temporal and frontal cortices. There were no statistically significant differences between the alcoholic and control groups in brain weight, frontal or parietal cortical thickness, or neocortical neuron populations. These results imply a disproportionate vulnerability of white matter to the damaging effects of alcohol with consequent lateral ventricular enlargement, and some regional variation in neocortical susceptibility to alcohol-induced cortical thinning and glial cell loss. In general, such changes are consistent with those described in neuroradiologic imaging studies of human alcoholics.

Based on the experimental evidence from his laboratory and the relevant literature the Author outlines a formal model of memory trace formation. During exploratory (theta) behaviors the neocortical information is transmitted to the hippocampus via the fast-firing granule cells which may induce a weak and transient heterosynaptic potentiation in a subgroup of CA3 pyramidal cells. The weakly potentiated CA3 neurons will then initiate population bursts upon the termination of exploratory activity (sharp wave state). It is assumed that recurrent excitation during the population burst is strongest on those cells which initiated the population event. It is suggested that the strong excitatory drive brought about by the sharp wave-concurrent population bursts during consummatory behaviors, immobility, and slow wave sleep may be sufficient for the induction of long-term synaptic modification in the initiator neurons of the CA3 region and in their targets in CA1. In this two-stage model both exploratory (theta) and sharp wave states of the hippocampus are essential and any interference that might modify the structure of the population bursts (e.g., epileptic spikes) are detrimental to memory trace formation.
1. The behavioural effects of a selective cholecystokininB (CCKB) receptor antagonist CI-988 were investigated in rodents. 2. In three rodent tests of anxiety (rat elevated X-maze, rat social interaction test and mouse light/dark box) CI-988 over the dose range 0.001-10.0 mg kg-1, (i.p.) produced an anxiolytic-like action. The magnitude of this effect was similar to that of chlordiazepoxide (CDP). In contrast, the selective CCKA receptor antagonist, devazepide, was inactive. CI-988 also showed anxiolytic-like action in the rat conflict test but the magnitude of this effect was about 2.5 fold less than that of CDP. 3. Central but not peripheral administration of the selective CCKB receptor agonist, pentagastrin, like FG 7142, produced an anxiogenic-like action. 4. The pentagastrin-induced anxiety was dose-dependently antagonized by CI-988, whereas devazepide was inactive. However, ten times higher doses of CI-988 were required to block a similar action of FG 7142. 5. In contrast to CDP, CI-988 up to 3000 fold higher doses than those inducing anxiolysis was inactive in tests measuring sedation and ataxia. It also failed to antagonize pentylenetetrazol-induced tonic seizures. Furthermore, CI-988 did not interact with alcohol or barbiturates. Thus, CI-988 appears to be an anxioselective compound. 6. The anxiolytic-like action of CDP in the rat elevated X-maze was dose-dependently antagonized by flumazenil. In contrast, the benzodiazepine receptor antagonist failed to block a similar effect of CI-988. 7. Thus, CI-988 shows anxiolytic-like activity in several animal models of anxiety. The anxiolytic-like effect of CI-988 involves a novel mechanism of action, that is likely to be mediated by selective antagonism of the brain CCKB receptor. It is suggested that CI-988 should have a better side-effect profile in man than the benzodiazepines.
Muscle biopsies from 14 patients with facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy (FSHD) aged from 5 to 45 years were studied histochemically with fiber type analysis, focusing on small angular fibers (SAF) to clarify their significance. There were no duration-related or age-dependent histopathological differences between child and adult patients. Variations in fiber size and SAF were observed in all, myonecrosis with occasional phagocytosis in 10 and regenerating fibers in 12 biopsies. Cellular responses including inflammatory cell infiltration (7 biopsies) and connective tissue proliferation (8 biopsies), and fiber architectural changes (9 biopsies) were additional common findings. Although SAF are also commonly seen in patients with Kugelberg-Welander disease and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, in FSHD they were mostly type 2C fibers which frequently exhibit alkaline phosphatase-positive activity. Therefore SAF in FSHD are mostly the products of a regeneration rather than denervation process.
Hunger and satiety appear to reflect the postabsorptive and absorptive phases of caloric homeostasis, respectively. However, only some of the signals that inhibit food intake can be related to caloric homeostasis. For example, decreases in food intake also are observed after administration of nauseogenic chemical agents, treatment with cholecystokinin (CCK), or dehydration. In each case, inhibition of food intake is correlated with induced decreases in gastric motility and increases in secretion of pituitary oxytocin in rats; in primates, including humans, vasopressin but not oxytocin is secreted. In contrast, meal-induced satiety increases gastric contractions and has little or no effect on neurohypophyseal hormone secretion in rats or human subjects. Nauseogenic toxins, CCK, and dehydration stimulate very different subjective states from satiety: LiCl elicits abdominal cramps, nausea, and vomiting, as does exogenous CCK in high doses, whereas dehydration elicits thirst. Thus, inhibition of eating may not be associated with satiety or reflect changes in caloric flux; noncaloric controls of food intake exist and may be accompanied by distinctive increases in neurohypophyseal hormone secretion and loss of gastric function.
Current neuroimaging methodologies have lacked the resolution needed to visualize cortical organization at the microscopic level. As a consequence, when neurological diseases disrupt the internal structure of the cerebral cortex, the changes can only be visualized postmortem, by histological examination. This imposes severe limitations in the in vivo diagnosis and investigation of those conditions. Here, we report on a magnetic resonance technique that permitted the visualization of some features of cerebral cortex in 14 living human subjects and in 2 fixed brains. The key finding was a periodic pattern of low- and high-signal slabs, oriented perpendicularly to the pial surface, that seem to correspond, respectively, to columnar modules and myelin septa. The key parameters of the new protocol included modifications in pulse sequence, field of view, number of repetitions, and plane of sectioning.
Axon outgrowth between the spinal cord and the hindlimb of the chick embryo is constrained by three tissues that border axon pathways. Growth cones turn to avoid the posterior sclerotome, perinotochordal mesenchyme, and pelvic girdle precursor during normal development and after experimental manipulation. We wanted to know if these functionally similar barriers to axon advance also share a common molecular composition. Since the posterior sclerotome differentially binds peanut agglutinin (PNA) and since PNA binding is also typical of prechondrogenic differentiation, we examined the pattern of expression of PNA binding sites and cartilage proteoglycan epitopes in relation to axon outgrowth. We found that all three barrier tissues preferentially express both PNA binding sites and chondroitin-6-sulfate (C-6-S) immunoreactivity at the time when growth cones avoid these tissues. Moreover, both epitopes are expressed in the roof plate of the spinal cord and in the early limb bud, two additional putative barriers to axon advance. In contrast, neither epitope is detected in peripheral axon pathways. In the somites, this dichotomous pattern of expression clearly preceded the invasion of the anterior sclerotome by either motor growth cones or neural crest cells. However, in the limb, barrier markers disappeared from presumptive axon pathways in concert with the invasion of axons. Since this coordinate pattern suggested that the absence of barrier markers in these axon pathways requires an interaction with growth cones, we analyzed the pattern of barrier marker expression following unilateral neural tube deletions. We found that PNA-negative axon pathways developed normally even in the virtual absence of axon outgrowth. We conclude that the absence of staining with carbohydrate-specific barrier markers is an independent characteristic of the cells that comprise axon pathways. These results identify two molecular markers that characterize known functional barriers to axon advance and suggest that barrier tissues may impose patterns on peripheral nerve outgrowth by virtue of their distinct molecular composition.
Insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) is believed to play a role in the regulation of brain growth. The identity of cells responsible for its synthesis in the immature brain, however, has not been established. To identify potential sites of IGF-1 synthesis, in situ hybridization has been utilized to localize IGF-1 mRNA in the murine brain during the first postnatal month. Although IGF-1 mRNA was detected in all regions of the neonatal brain, there was considerable regional variation in the level of expression. Neurons were the principle sites IGF-1 mRNA expression and expression was typically restricted to one or two neuronal cell types within each region. In the cerebellar cortex, for example, only Purkinje cells hybridized to the IGF-1 probe. In contrast to gray matter, IGF-1 labeled cells were rarely found in presumptive white matter tracts of the forebrain. The hybridization signal was most prominent in regions where neurogenesis persisted after birth, including the cerebellum, olfactory bulb, and hippocampal complex. The timing of IGF-1 mRNA expression appeared to be temporally related to local neuronal proliferation. The number of labeled cells and intensity of hybridization signal was greatest during the first 2 postnatal weeks, a period of rapid neuronal proliferation in these regions. At the end of the first month, when neurogenesis had essentially ceased, IGF-1 signal strength had declined to background levels. The temporal and spatial pattern IGF-1 mRNA expression in the immature CNS was consistent with a role for locally produced IGF-1 in the regulation of brain development.
Although vegetative cells, gametes, and zygotes of the biflagellated alga Chlamydomonas bear flagella, only the flagella of mt+ and mt- gametes are adhesive. The molecules responsible for adhesiveness, mt+ and mt- agglutinins, are long rod-shaped glycoproteins displayed on the flagellar membrane. These flagellar agglutinins, which gametes use both as adhesion and signaling molecules during the early events of fertilization, are lost from the flagella during adhesion. Flagellar adhesiveness can be maintained, however, by recruitment and activation of preexisting, inactive agglutinins from the plasma membrane of the cell body (Hunnicutt et al, 1990, J. Cell Biol. 111, 1605-1616) unless the gametes of opposite mating types fuse to form zygotes. Upon cell fusion, flagellar adhesiveness is lost. In the studies presented here, we have employed an in vitro bioassay to measure agglutinins in both cell bodies and flagella at various times during gametogenesis, during fertilization, and after zygote-formation. By use of the bioassay, which can detect agglutinins that are functionally inactive in vivo, we found that vegetative cells are devoid of agglutinins. These adhesion molecules appear only after gametogenesis is underway with the cell body agglutinins appearing first and then the flagellar agglutinins. Surprisingly, 30 min after zygote formation, when the zygotes' flagella are no longer adhesive, the flagellar agglutinin activity detectable with the bioassay remains high. One interpretation of these results is that zygotes continue to recruit agglutinins from the cell body to the flagella, but cell fusion abrogates activation of the agglutinins. Within 45-90 min after fusion both the cell body and flagellar agglutinins are lost and can be detected in the medium. These mechanisms, which render the zygotes nonadhesive to other zygotes and unmated gametes, contribute to the Chlamydomonas equivalent of a block to polyspermy.
Within the mammalian CNS, astrocytes appear to be a heterogeneous class of cells. To assay the number of distinct types of astrocytes in the rat spinal cord, cell lineage and phenotypic analyses were carried out on cultures from newborn rat spinal cord and five distinct types of astrocytes were observed. Proliferating precursors for each class of astrocyte were isolated by low density culture and shown to give rise to 5 distinct and morphologically homogeneous clusters of GFAP + astrocytes. Immunocytochemical analysis with antibodies A2B5 and Ran-2, which identify different glial lineages in optic nerve cultures, demonstrated that many clusters included both A2B5+ and A2B5- cells. Similarly, many clusters also possessed a mixture of Ran-2+ and Ran-2-cells, suggesting that in spinal cord cultures, in contrast to optic nerve cultures, expression of these antigens is regulated by individual cells rather than by cell lineage. Single-cell cloning studies, revealed that the abundance and proliferative capacity of individual astrocyte precursors differed depending on the type of astrocyte. To assay the effects of a complex cellular environment on the composition of astrocyte clones, lineage analysis was performed in complete spinal cord cultures using a replication deficient retrovirus. Although similar morphologically homogeneous clones of cells to those seen with single-cell clones were observed, the proliferative capacity and relative abundance of the distinct astrocyte precursors differed from that seen in single-cell cloning studies. Together these observations suggest that in spinal cord, gliogenesis is considerably more complex than in the optic nerve and that cultures of newborn rat spinal cord contain multiple, distinct populations of astrocytes.
Somatosensory evoked potentials (SEPs) and compound nerve action potentials (cNAPs) have been recorded in 15 subjects during electrical and magnetic nerve stimulation. Peripheral records were gathered at Erb's point and on nerve trunks at the elbow during median and ulnar nerve stimulation at the wrist. Erb responses to electrical stimulation were larger in amplitude and shorter in duration than the magnetic ones when 'electrical' and 'magnetic' compound muscle action potentials (cMAPs) of comparable amplitudes were elicited. SEPs were recorded respectively at Cv7 and on the somatosensory scalp areas contra- and ipsilateral to the stimulated side. SEPs showed a statistically significant difference in amplitude only for the brachial plexus response and for the 'cortical' N20-P25 complex; differences were not found between the magnetic and electrical central conduction times (CCTs) or for the peripheral nerve response latencies. Magnetic stimulation preferentially excited the motor and proprioceptive fibres when the nerve trunks were stimulated at motor threshold intensities.
Two dichotic listening experiments were performed in which stimulus and task conditions were optimized for the early selection of inputs. Subjects listened selectively to sequences of rapidly presented tone pips in one ear while ignoring tone pips of a different pitch in the opposite ear. In both experiments, an enhanced positivity between 20 and 50 msec (the 'P20-50') was observed over central and frontal sites in the ERPs to the attended-channel tone pips. At longer latencies, the effects of attention appeared to include an amplitude modulation of several exogenous ERPs, including subcomponents of the central N1 (60-150 msec) and P2 (170-230 msec) waves and the temporal T complex (80-150 msec). In contrast, the attention effect prefrontally consisted of a broad negativity that appeared to be largely endogenous. A signal processing technique (Adjar) was employed to correct for distortion of mutually overlapping ERPs elicited by successive stimuli presented at short interstimulus intervals (ISIs). It was confirmed that the P20-50 attention effect was not the result of differential overlap from previous ERPs. In addition, this technique allowed an analysis to be made of the effects of the preceding stimulus type and ISI on the attention-sensitive ERPs, which provided further support for the view that highly focused selective attention can directly modulate exogenous components of the auditory ERP. Moreover, these sequence-dependent ERP modulations were paralleled by variations in target discrimination performance. Taken together, these results provide strong support for the early selection hypothesis that attention can serve to selectively bias or gate stimulus processing before full perceptual analysis has occurred.
An immortalized LHRH cell line has recently been developed by genetically targeting these neurons for tumorigenesis. One of the subclones, the GT1-7 cells, was characterized at both the light and electron microscopic levels to study the cellular and subcellular organization of these cells, particularly as they relate to biosynthesis, processing, and secretion. The cells were fixed onto slides 18-36 h after plating. LHRH and GnRH-associated peptide (GAP) immunoreactivities (IR) were detected by immunocytochemistry using colloidal gold labeling. These cultured cells exhibited the classical neuronal appearance of LHRH neurons, and they established numerous interconnections. Neighboring neurons were coupled by tight junctions, while more distant cells were interconnected with neural axon-like processes and collaterals. This cellular organization is suggestive of a neural network where neuronal activity is coordinated. At the ultrastructural level, the nondividing cells possessed indented nuclei, well developed Golgi complexes, and abundant numbers of ribosomes and secretory granules. Clathrin-coated vesicles were found in fusion with the plasma membrane. The ribosomes and secretory vesicles were particularly prominent, suggestive of high rates of protein biosynthesis and secretion. All of the cells immunostained for both LHRH and GAP; however, GAP IR was always more pronounced than that for LHRH. This finding was corroborated by biochemical data reported in a companion paper. The GAP IR was associated with ribosomes and secretory vesicles. By comparison, LHRH IR was restricted mainly to the secretory vesicles. Using colloidal gold particles of different sizes to denote LHRH or GAP IR, it was determined that both GAP and LHRH IR were colocalized within the same secretory vesicle. Taken together, these data suggest that pro-LHRH is biosynthesized on the ribosomes, packaged as an intact protein into the secretory vesicles, processed to LHRH and GAP-(1-56) within these vesicles, and transported to the periphery of the cell in preparation for secretion. These morphological data emphasize the utility of using these immortalized LHRH neuronal cells to dissect the cellular and subcellular architecture involved in biosynthesis, processing, and secretion. In addition, our results provide the first detailed evidence for the intracellular pathway involved in pro-LHRH biosynthesis, processing, and secretion in these cultured neuronal cells.
Compared to corticotropes in the adult rat anterior pituitary, neonatal corticotropes exhibit a significantly lower extent of conversion of precursor molecules into ACTH and a substantially greater extent of ACTH cleavage into smaller product peptides similar in size to alpha-melanotropin and corticotropin-like intermediate lobe peptide (CLIP). In the present study we examined pro-ACTH/endorphin (PAE; also called POMC) processing in corticotropes at different times during postnatal development to determine when these cells cease cleaving ACTH into smaller peptides and when they cease accumulating large amounts of intact precursor in vivo. The pattern of processing observed in the newborn is maintained through the second week after birth. A dramatic decrease in ACTH cleavage occurs between the second and third postnatal weeks. The extent of precursor cleavage increases toward the adult pattern by the fifth postnatal week. Explants of newborn anterior pituitary were previously shown to exhibit increased cleavage of ACTH into ACTH-(1-13)NH2 and CLIP, a process that was suppressed by glucocorticoids. To determine whether corticotropes from older animals maintained this plasticity and what intercellular interactions might be required, dissociated primary cultures were maintained in complete serum-free medium with or without added glucocorticoids. After 7 days in complete serum-free medium, the cellular content of both intact precursor and peptides the size of CLIP was increased compared to the corresponding in vivo pattern for animals from birth through adulthood. Although corticotropes from younger animals exhibited more pronounced changes when placed in culture, even cultures from adult animals exhibited some ACTH cleavage. For corticotrope cultures prepared from animals up to postnatal day 15, chronic treatment with dexamethasone did not suppress ACTH cleavage activity, although glucocorticoids did suppress ACTH cleavage in cultures from animals older than postnatal day 22. Biosynthetic labeling studies with cultures from 4- to 5-week-old rats demonstrated that the powerful suppressive effect of dexamethasone on the cleavage of newly synthesized ACTH-(1-39) was only evident 24 h after addition of the glucocorticoid to the culture medium. In contrast, removal of dexamethasone allowed cleavage of ACTH to commence within a few hours.
It is generally recognised that the assessment of treatment effects in epilepsy using seizure frequency as the only outcome measure may lack sensitivity. A patient-based seizure severity scale has been developed and initial results confirm its reliability and validity. As part of the further development of this scale it is important to explore the relationship between seizure severity, seizure frequency and the psychosocial consequences of intractable epilepsy. One hundred patients with medically refractory partial seizures completed a quality of life questionnaire including measures of physical (seizure severity and frequency), social and psychological well-being (anxiety, depression, self-esteem, locus of control and happiness). Multivariate analysis demonstrated that individual psychological variables were best predicted by other psychological variables. However, when these were removed from analysis, seizure severity was the most significant predictor of self-esteem (P = 0.005), locus of control P = 0.039) and anxiety (P = 0.048). Seizure frequency did not contribute significantly to the variance of any of the psychological factors. These results highlight the importance of considering seizure severity when assessing treatment effects in epilepsy and provide further evidence for the construct validity of a novel patient-based seizure severity scale.
Systematic epidemiological surveillance of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease was carried out in England and Wales covering the years 1970-1984. The results of this work provide a basis from which to assess any change in the pattern of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease following the occurrence of Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy. The methodology, early results and problems of the current systematic national survey of CJD, initiated in May 1990, are discussed.

We present evidence for the possible involvement of both the RB and p53 proteins in the regulation of cellular senescence. Human fibroblasts immortalized with an inducible SV40 T-antigen become senescent following the de-induction of T-antigen. Plasmids expressing an alternative source of intact T-antigen restore proliferation but T-antigen deletion mutants lacking either the RB or p53 binding domains are unable to do so. Similarly, combinations of adenovirus E1A + E1B or human papillomavirus E6 + E7 genes are able to replace T-antigen functions and permit cell proliferation, whereas the individual genes do not. These results are discussed in terms of a two-stage model for the escape from in vitro cellular senescence.
Effects of 5-bromo-2-deoxy-uridine (BrdU) and 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG) were studied in exponentially growing transformed mammalian (BHK-21) cells, grown as monolayer. Micronuclei formation as an index of radiation damage was studied by i) cytokinesis block technique from cytochalasin-B induced binucleated cells, and ii) conventional technique. Presence of BrdU (0.8 microM) for nearly 2 cell cycles before gamma-irradiation (2.5 Gy) significantly increased frequencies of cells with micronuclei. Post-irradiation incubation of cultures in liquid holding medium (HBSS) however, reduced micronuclei formation, especially in the BrdU treated cells. Presence of 2-DG (4 hr, equimolar with glucose) in growth as well as liquid holding medium further increased micronuclei frequencies. These observations suggest that radiation induced DNA lesions in BrdU substituted cells, leading to chromosome fragmentation are partly repairable. 2-DG increased cytogenetic damage, possibly by inhibiting the repair of such repairable lesions. Present studies suggest that combination of 2-DG could optimize BrdU-radiation therapy of brain tumors, by reducing the BrdU doses required for tumor radiosensitization.

Receptor-mediated endocytosis begins with the binding of ligand to receptors in clathrin-coated pits followed by the budding of the pits away from the membrane. We have successfully reconstituted this sequence in vitro. Highly purified plasma membranes labeled with gold were obtained by incubating cells in the presence of anti-LDL receptor IgG-gold at 4 degrees C, attaching the labeled cells to a poly-L-lysine-coated substratum at 4 degrees C and then gently sonicating them to remove everything except the adherent membrane. Initially the gold label was clustered over flat, clathrin-coated pits. After these membranes were warmed to 37 degrees C for 5-10 min in the presence of buffer that contained cytosol extract, Ca2+, and ATP, the coated pits rounded up and budded from the membrane, leaving behind a membrane that was devoid of LDL gold. Simultaneous with the loss of the ligand, the clathrin triskelion and the AP-2 subunits of the coated pit were also lost. These results suggest that the budding of a coated pit to form a coated vesicle occurs in two steps: (a) the spontaneous rounding of the flat lattice into a highly invaginated coated pit at 37 degrees C; (b) the ATP, 150 microM Ca2+, and cytosolic factors(s) dependent fusion of the adjoining membrane segments at the neck of the invaginated pit.
Electrical stimulation of the cerebellar fastigial nucleus (FN) globally and profoundly increases cerebral blood flow via a cholinergic mechanism. In cerebral cortex, the vasodilation is unassociated with alterations in cerebral glucose utilization, a condition favoring protection against cerebral ischemia. We sought to determine whether FN stimulation would modify the size of the focal ischemic infarction resulting from occlusion of the middle cerebral artery (MCA). The MCA was occluded in anesthetized rats of the spontaneously hypertensive (SHR) or Sprague-Dawley (SD) strains with or without 1 h of electrical stimulation of the FN. Twenty-four hours later, rats were killed and the volume of the infarction established in thionin-stained sections. in SHRs, FN stimulation reduced by 40% the well-established cortical and partially subcortical infarctions elicited by occlusion of the MCA (from 186 +/- 35.2 to 113 +/- 47.1 mm3, mean +/- SD, n = 15; p less than 0.001). The zone of retrieval was anatomically constant, consisting of a rim of cortex dorsal and ventral to the infarction and medially within the thalamus and striatum corresponding to the penumbral zone described by others. The effect was comparable in rats of the SD strain having smaller infarctions. The effect of FN stimulation appears to be selective for the FN system in that it is not evoked by stimulation of the dentate nucleus and is blocked by systemic administration of atropine (1.0 mg/kg). We conclude that excitation of an intrinsic system in brain represented in the rostral FN has the capacity to reduce substantially an ischemic infarction.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The application of computer-assisted confocal laser scanning microscopy in chemical neuroanatomy is briefly reviewed and illustrated with examples taken mainly from morphological studies of neurons in the spinal cord of the lamprey, a lower vertebrate. The principle of operation of the confocal microscopy system used, with emphasis on the computer-controlled image data acquisition and further processing of the large image volumes, is described. The imaging characteristics of confocal laser scanning microscopy in combination with fluorescence labelling, in particular the capacity to perform three-dimensional reconstructions of high optical resolution, are also described and illustrated with projection images from different viewing angles and with stereo pair reconstructions. Different possibilities for image processing, e.g. surface shading and surface extraction, are also described and illustrated.
Receptor autoradiography is one of the first fields where 'desktop' computer-assisted image analysis has been applied. Less than 10 years ago, the first image analysis systems were commercially marketed. Improvements on these early systems have been substantial and there are currently a wide variety of systems available for investigators. These systems dramatically reduce the time required for analysis, improve accuracy and increase the willingness to work in these areas. New techniques allowing autoradiography without emulsion will further expand opportunities for image analysis. While great strides have been made, significant affordable improvements are likely in the near future.
Previous studies have shown that cholinergic blockade in normal subjects induces impairment of vigilance as well as memory deficits. In the present investigation we have examined the validity of this pharmacological model of dementia by administering a battery of cognitive tasks to patients with mild and moderate senile dementia of the Alzheimer type and to age-matched controls. In contrast to volunteers receiving scopolamine all the mildly demented patients, and half of those moderately affected, performed normally on tests of vigilance whilst exhibiting the expected memory deficits. These data suggest that the mechanism of memory loss in Alzheimer's disease may differ from that found in scopolamine-induced amnesia.
The distribution, cross-sectional area, and presynaptic and postsynaptic characteristics of retinal ganglion cell axon terminals in the superior colliculus of normal adult female Syrian hamsters were investigated by quantitative ultrastructural techniques. After an intravitreal injection of horseradish peroxidase, most labelled axon terminals were found in the stratum griseum superficiale and stratum opticum of the contralateral superior colliculus. However, a small proportion (approximately 2%) of retinal ganglion cell axon terminals were located in deeper layers of the superior colliculus between the stratum opticum and the periaqueductal grey matter. Terminals were smaller in the upper two-thirds of the stratum griseum superficiale than in the lower one-third of this layer, the stratum opticum, and the stratum griseum intermedium. Presynaptic characteristics such as the length and number of contacts and the postsynaptic neuronal domains (somata, dendritic spines, or shafts) contacted by retinal ganglion cell axons in the superior colliculus were similar in all layers.
The appearance of somatostatin (SOM)-immunoreactive (IR) and vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP)-IR neurons in different regions of the embryonic chicken gut was studied by immunostaining wholemounts. The patterns of expression of these peptides in myenteric neurons showed a number of similarities. Both peptides first appeared in the region of the proventriculus-gizzard: SOM at embryonic day (E)4, VIP at E5.5. At later times both peptides were found in positions both rostral and caudal to the gizzard. Both peptides appeared independently in cells at a second site, the cecum of the hindgut: SOM was observed at E6.5 and VIP at E7.5. VIP-IR and SOM-IR cells appear throughout the cecum, then in the rectum, and finally in the ileum. Differences in the patterns of expression were also found. SOM- and VIP-IR neurons appeared at different times along the length of the gut. VIP-IR cells populated the entire gut by E11.5, whereas SOM-IR cells were not present throughout the gut until E13.5. SOM-IR cells appeared in the terminal part of the ganglion of Remak at E4.0. At E6 these SOM-IR cells sent fibers into the wall of the hindgut and later into the midgut. No VIP-IR cells were found in the ganglion of Remak. These findings suggest that neural crest-derived cells first express SOM- and VIP-IR in particular regions of the gut, namely, the proventriculus-gizzard and the cecum. Certain conditions must exist at these sites which favor the expression of these neuropeptides by neural crest-derived cells. The observation of SOM- and VIP-IR cells in the cecum at a stage of development before cells are seen in the ileum supports the concept that sacral neural crest cells contribute precursors for enteric neurons of the avian hindgut.
Hypothalamic regulatory peptides bind to specific receptors on target cells in the pituitary and control secretion. They in turn can be regulated at the pituitary level by steroid and peptide modulators. Affinity cytochemical techniques are important tools for the identification of specific target binding sites for these regulatory peptides. This presentation reviews the work in which potent, biotinylated ligands of gonadotropin releasing hormone (bio-GnRH), corticotropin releasing hormone (bio-CRH), and arginine vasopressin (bio-AVP) were applied to study the target cell responses. Bio-GnRH, bio-CRH, and bio-AVP bind to membrane receptors on specific anterior pituitary cells. Dual labeling for either gonadotropin or adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) antigens further identified the target cells. After 1-3 minutes, the label was in patches or capped on the surface. After 3 minutes, it was internalized in small vesicles and sent to receptosomes and vacuoles in the Golgi complex. Eventually the biotinylated peptides, or a metabolite, was found in the lysosomes (multivesicular bodies) and a subpopulation of secretory granules. The route and rate of uptake was similar to that described for the classical receptor-mediated endocytosis process. In contrast, intermediate lobe corticotropes internalized the bio-CRH in less than 1 minute. The route through the Golgi complex appeared to be bypassed. Instead the labeled peptide was in vesicles, on the membranes of scattered vacuoles, and in multivesicular bodies. Modulation of ligand binding by steroids showed that changes in receptor numbers correlated with changes in the number of cells that bound the ligand. In male rats, dihydrotestosterone reduced the percentage of GnRH-bound cells by 50%. Most of the reduction appeared in cells that stored luteinizing hormone (LH) antigens. In diestrous female rats, estradiol increased the percentage of bio-GnRH-bound cells. However, the steroid decreased the percentage of GnRH-bound cells in cells from proestrous rats. Glucocorticoids decreased the percentage of CRH-bound corticotropes in as little as 10 minutes. Potentiation of secretion by these ligands was correlated with increases in the percentage of ligand-bound cells. AVP pretreatment of corticotropes increased the percentage of cells that bound bio-CRH. It also increased the rate of receptor-mediated endocytosis of CRH and changed the route so that the Golgi complex was bypassed. This effect could be mimicked by activation of its second messengers (calcium and protein kinase C). Similarly, CRH pretreatment increased the percentage of corticotropes that bound AVP. Thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH) pretreatment also increased the percentage of thyrotropes that bound AVP.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Two fixed-consecutive-number-like procedures were used to examine effects of acute d-amphetamine administration on control over response number. In both procedures, rats were required to press the left lever at least once and then press the right lever to complete a trial. The consecutive left-lever presses on each trial comprised a &quot;run.&quot; Under the targeted percentile schedule, reinforcement was provided if the current run length was closer to the target length (16) than half of the most recent 24 runs. This differentially reinforced run length while holding reinforcement probability constant at .5. A second group acquired the differentiation under the targeted percentile schedule, but were then shifted to a procedure that yoked reinforcement probability by subject and run length to that obtained under the targeted percentile schedule. The two procedures generated practically identical control run lengths, response rates, reinforcement probabilities, and reinforcement rates. Administration of d-amphetamine disrupted percentile responding to a greater degree than yoked control responding. This disruption decreased reinforcement frequency less in the former than the latter procedure. The similar baseline responding under these two procedures suggests that this difference in sensitivity was due to behavioral adjustments to drug prompted by reduction of reinforcement density in the yoked control but not the percentile schedule. These adjustments attenuate the drug's effects under the former, but not the latter, procedure.

Novel Boc-CCK-4 derivatives were communicated recently as having high potency and selectivity for the CCK-A receptor (Shiosaki et al. J. Med. Chem. 1990, 33, 2950-2952). While Boc-CCK-4 binds selectively to the CCK-B receptor, replacement of the methionine with an N epsilon-substituted lysine dramatically reversed receptor selectivity, leading to the development of this novel series of tetrapeptides. A detailed structure-activity analysis of a series of urea-substituted tetrapeptides, represented by the general structure Boc-Trp-Lys(N epsilon-CO-NHR)-Asp-Phe-NH2, revealed that a number of substituted phenyl, naphthyl, and aliphatic urea residues in the lysine side chain yielded potent and selective CCK-A ligands. These tetrapeptides elicit full agonist responses in stimulating pancreatic amylase release that are effectively blocked by a selective CCK-A receptor antagonist. Conversion of the urea to a thiourea significantly reduced CCK-A binding potency as did replacement of the lysine with the homologous ornithine or homolysine. Tetrapeptides that were partial agonists (less than 80% efficacy) in phosphoinositide (PI) hydrolysis relative to CCK-8 did not exhibit high-dose inhibition of amylase secretion in guinea pig acini.
The wide-ranging neuronal actions of glutamate are thought to be mediated by postsynaptic N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and non-NMDA receptors. The present report demonstrates the existence of presynaptic glutamate receptors in isolated striatal dopaminergic nerve terminals (synaptosomes). Activation of these receptors, by NMDA in the absence of Mg2+ and presence of glycine and by non-NMDA agonists in the presence of Mg2+, results in Ca(2+)-dependent release of dopamine from striatal synaptosomes. The release stimulated by NMDA is blocked by Mg2+ and by selective NMDA antagonists, whereas the release stimulated by selective non-NMDA agonists is blocked by a non-NMDA antagonist but not by Mg2+ or NMDA antagonists. Thus, these presynaptic glutamate receptors, localized on dopaminergic terminals in the striatum, appear to be pharmacologically similar to both the NMDA and the non-NMDA postsynaptic receptors. By modulating the release of dopamine, these presynaptic receptors may play an important role in transmitter interactions in the striatum.

Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity was measured in lumbar cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of 11 patients with progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) and 18 age-matched healthy control subjects. Mean CSF AChE activity in PSP subjects was significantly reduced by 31% relative to control subjects (p less than 0.002). In the light of evidence of a central cholinergic deficit, physostigmine was administered orally (0.5-2.0 mg every two hours, six times a day for 10 days) to eight of the 11 PSP patients. CSF was sampled when the patients were on placebo and when receiving physostigmine and CSF AChE and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) activities were measured. There was no significant change in either CSF AChE or BChE activities following physostigmine treatment. These data suggest that the doses of physostigmine used were insufficient to produce marked inhibition of AChE within the central nervous system.
A cohort of 469 hospital-referred patients with transient ischaemic attacks (TIA) of the brain (66%) or eye (34%) due to presumed atheromatous thromboembolism, lipohyalinosis or cardiogenic embolism, without prior stroke, was assembled between 1976-86. Follow up was prospective and complete until the patients death or the end of 1986. During a mean period of follow up of 4.1 years there were 82 deaths (58 vascular, 24 non-vascular), 63 first-ever strokes and 58 patients with coronary events. A coronary event accounted for 51% of deaths whilst stroke was the cause in 12%. The average risk of death over the first five years after TIA was 4.5% per year. The risk of stroke was 6.6% in the first year and 3.4% per year on average over the first five years. Stroke occurred in the same vascular territory as the initial TIA in about two-thirds of cases, and was of lacunar type in one fifth of these strokes. The average risk of a coronary event over the first five years after TIA was 3.1% per year, similar to that of stroke. However, the risk of a coronary event, and also death, was fairly constant each year after a TIA, in contrast to the risk of stroke which was highest in the first year. The average risk of stroke, myocardial infarction or vascular death over the first five years after TIA was 6.5% per year and the average risk of stroke, myocardial infarction or death from any cause was 7.5% per year. The prognosis of this cohort of hospital-referred TIA patients was better than that of TIA patients in the same community who presented to the Oxfordshire Community Stroke Project (OCSP), and reflected the impact of referral bias. The hospital-referred patients were younger, assessed at a later date after their last TIA, and comprised a greater proportion of patients who had had a TIA of the eye (amaurosis fugax), which had a better prognosis than TIA of the brain. Knowledge of the prognosis of different populations of TIA patients not only enhances understanding and interpretation of previous studies but is also required for optimal patient management and the planning of treatment trials.
Using immunocytochemical methods, we examined the intensity and distribution of dystrophin and spectrin immunostaining of skeletal muscles from 51 congenital muscular dystrophy (CMD) patients including 36 Fukuyama congenital muscular dystrophy (FCMD) and 15 non-FCMD (other CMD). 17 age-matched spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) and 5 Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) patient biopsies were studied as controls. All 15 non-FCMD and SMA patients showed normal localization of dystrophin at the surface membrane of each muscle fiber which was undetectable in DMD. In contrast, 34 of 36 FCMD patients exhibited an unusual immunostaining pattern with occasional (17-43%; mean = 28) negative or abnormally immunoreacted (partially deficient, fluffy or intense) fibers for dystrophin. Dystrophin was absent in 2 of 36 patients having a clinical diagnosis of FCMD, and intragenic deletion of the DMD gene was detected in one. Spectrin, a membrane cytoskeletal protein related to dystrophin, also showed an increased number of abnormally immunostained fibers in FCMD (25%), but not so high in age-matched DMD (9%) or SMA patient muscle (0%). Thus, our results suggested the presence of intrinsic factor(s) that produce abnormality of the plasma membrane of FCMD muscle.
The trigeminal ganglion, roots and the initial portion of the ophthalmic, maxillary and mandibular nerves were dissected in 3 cadavers, to study the number, area and composition of the fascicles, and the density and diameter spectra of myelinated fibers. The total number of fibers (x 1000) was 26 in the ophthalmic, 50 in the maxillary, and 78 in the mandibular division, 7.7 in the motor root and 170 in the sensory root. In all nerves, the histograms of fiber diameter had a bimodal distribution. Cutaneous and muscle nerve fascicles clearly differed in the fiber density and diameter. The ophthalmic and maxillary nerves (cutaneous) had similar fascicles, and their maximum fiber diameter averaged 14.5 microns. Most fascicles of the mandibular nerve (probably cutaneous fascicles) closely resembled those of the ophthalmic and maxillary nerves, but in some fascicles (probably muscle nerves) the fibers were larger, with a maximum diameter of 19.3 microns. The findings in the three peripheral divisions agree with electrophysiological data about sensory and motor conduction in human trigeminal nerves. The observation that the ophthalmic and maxillary nerves have similar fiber spectra indicates that a special fiber composition does not account for the sparing of the ophthalmic division in trigeminal neuralgia. The absence of very large (A alpha) fibers in the sensory root does not support the view that impulses from muscle spindles are conducted along this root.
Previous studies have led to the hypothesis that some proteins of the postsynaptic membrane are locally synthesized at postsynaptic sites. To evaluate this hypothesis, synaptosome fractions that included fragments of dendrites were allowed to incorporate labeled amino acid into protein. The labeled synaptosomes were then subfractionated to the level of the synaptic plasma membrane (SPM) and then the synaptic junctional complex (SJC). The specific activity (cpm/microgram protein) of the synaptosome fraction and its subfractions was assessed by scintillation counting and protein assay, and labeled polypeptides were characterized by SDS-PAGE and fluorography. The contribution of mitochondrial and eucaryotic protein synthesis to the overall incorporation was evaluated using cycloheximide (CYC), a eucaryotic protein synthesis inhibitor, and chloramphenicol (CAP), a mitochondrial protein synthesis inhibitor. Both the SPM and the SJC subfractions obtained from labeled synaptosomes contained labeled polypeptides. The SPM from labeled synaptosomes had a specific activity approximately equal to that of other nonmitochondrial membrane components of the synaptosome. Thus, labeling of the SPM was not due to contamination by these other labeled membrane components. The mitochondrial fraction had the highest specific activity of the membrane components of the labeled synaptosome, but the specific activity was reduced by 47% in mitochondrial fractions from CAP-treated synaptosomes, while the specific activity of the SPM was not reduced by this treatment. Thus, SPM labeling is not due to mitochondrial contamination. The specific activity of the detergent-insoluble SJC was comparable to that of the SPM from which it was derived. The possibility of labeling of SPM and SJC by contamination with soluble proteins was assessed by adding labeled soluble proteins to a cold synaptosome preparation that was then subfractionated to obtain the SPM and SJC. There was no detectable binding of labeled soluble proteins to the SPM or SJC. These results support the hypothesis that some synaptic proteins are locally synthesized. Fluorographs of SDS gels of SPM from labeled synaptosomes revealed labeled bands at approximate molecular weights of 14, 18, 26, 28, 36, 38, 42, 45, 55, 60, and 116 kDa. Six of these labeled polypeptides at 38, 42, 45, 55, 60, and 116 kDa were still evident in fluorographs of the synaptic junctional complex from labeled synaptosomes. None of these labeled bands were seen in fluorographs of SPM and SJC from CYC-treated synaptosomes, whereas they were still present in fluorographs of CAP-treated synaptosomes. These labeled polypeptides are therefore produced by eucaryotic ribosomal systems.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Recent studies have revealed that mossy fiber axons of granule cells in the dentate gyrus undergo reorganization of their terminal projections in both animal models of epilepsy and human epilepsy. This synaptic reorganization has been demonstrated by the Timm method, a histochemical technique that selectively labels synaptic terminals of mossy fibers because of their high zinc content. It has been generally presumed that the reorganization of the terminal projections of the mossy fiber pathway is a consequence of axonal sprouting and synaptogenesis by mossy fibers. To evaluate this possibility further, the time course for development of Timm granules, which correspond ultrastructurally to mossy fiber synaptic terminals, was examined in the supragranular layer of the dentate gyrus at the initiation of kindling stimulation with an improved scoring method for assessment of alterations in Timm histochemistry. The progression and permanence of this histological alteration were similarly evaluated during the behavioral and electrographic evolution of kindling evoked by perforant path, amygdala, or olfactory bulb stimulation. Mossy fiber synaptic terminals developed in the supragranular region of the dentate gyrus by 4 d after initiation of kindling stimulation in a time course compatible with axon sprouting. The induced alterations in the terminal projections of the mossy fiber pathway progressed with the evolution of behavioral kindled seizures, became permanent in parallel with the development of longlasting susceptibility to evoked seizures, and were observed as long as 8 months after the last evoked kindled seizure. The results demonstrated a strong correlation between mossy fiber synaptic reorganization and the development, progression, and permanence of the kindling phenomenon.
Neuritic (senile) plaques are a hallmark of the pathology found in the brain of patients afflicted with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Neuritic plaques have been considered to be composed of an amyloid core surrounded by dilated neurites, although the use of anti-beta/A4-protein antibody revealed the presence of diffuse plaques without a nuclear-like central mass or surrounding paired helical filament (PHF)-containing neuritic components. The presence of diffuse plaques without PHF-containing neuritic components strongly suggests that the formation of amyloid precedes the degeneration of neurites that surround amyloid. Diffuse plaques are thus considered to be an early marker of AD pathology. In this article, we report that diffuse plaques, possible markers of early AD pathology, are immunostained with anti-protein kinase C(beta II) [anti-PKC(beta II)] antibodies. The PKC(beta II)-immunoreacting components of the diffuse plaques extend from neurons embedded in the plaques. Immunoelectron microscopy of diffuse and mature neuritic plaques shows that PKC(beta II)-like immunoreactivity in the plaques is closely associated with membranous structures of fine neuronal processes apposed to the amyloid fibers. These fine neuronal processes are distinct from classical neurites found typically in mature neuritic plaques. Furthermore, biochemical analysis demonstrates that PKC abnormalities, but not other AD markers (ubiquitin and A68), were found in the neocortex of clinically nondemented individuals with cortical plaques. Therefore, the PKC alteration in neurons might be involved in the early pathophysiology of AD.
The activity-dependent mechanism that refines the topography of the retinotectal projection in frogs is mediated by the NMDA receptor. Earlier studies found that chronic treatment of the optic tectum with the NMDA receptor antagonist DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (DL-AP5) desegregated eye-specific stripes in three-eyed frogs, while chronic treatment with NMDA sharpened stripe borders (Cline et al., 1987; Cline and Constantine-Paton, 1990). We now report that this same chronic treatment with NMDA decreases the electro-physiologically measured sensitivity of the optic tectum to applied NMDA: acute application of a given concentration of NMDA decreased the evoked tectal potential to a lesser extent in animals chronically treated with NMDA than it did in normal and sham-treated animals. This is observed as a shift to the right in the NMDA dose-response curves for both the positive and negative postsynaptic components of the evoked tectal response. We believe that this decreased NMDA receptor effectiveness further restricts the intermingling of axon branches from the two eyes by limiting synapse stabilization to areas where afferent activity is most correlated. This would account for the anatomical sharpening of stripe borders (i.e., increased afferent segregation). Quantitative autoradiographic analysis of 3H-glutamate binding to NMDA receptors indicated that binding densities within the tectum did not differ between control groups and NMDA chronically treated groups. We suggest that in the experimental animals the response to NMDA may be decreased by a change in the effectiveness of individual NMDA receptors rather than by decreases in receptor number. This experimentally induced change may be analogous to naturally occurring decreases in receptor function that correlate with the end of some periods of visual plasticity in mammals.
Interneurons from the CA1 lacunosum-moleculare (L-M) region were isolated by trypsin-hyaluronidase treatment and mechanical trituration of the L-M. Interneurons isolated in this manner were multipolar with several dendritic processes and could be distinguished from CA1 pyramidal neurons. The properties of a low-threshold transient (LTT) Ca2+ current were investigated using whole-cell voltage-clamp techniques. The activation threshold of the LTT Ca2+ current was -60 mV, and the peak current, 100 +/- 9 pA (mean +/- SEM; n = 15), was observed at -30 mV. Ca2+ was the predominant charge carrier because the current was not affected by tetrodotoxin and was abolished in Ca(2+)-free external solution. Steady state inactivation was observed when the holding potential was positive to -100 mV, and the current was half-inactivated at -84 mV. Complete inactivation occurred at a holding potential of -60 mV. The time-to-peak of the current was highly voltage dependent and ranged from 10 msec at -60 mV to 4 msec at 0 mV. The time constant of inactivation was also voltage dependent and ranged from 27 msec at -60 mV to 12 msec at greater than -30 mV. Recovery from inactivation to 90% of maximum current occurred within 200 msec. L-M interneurons receive synaptic inputs from the septum that release ACh or GABA and from the raphe nuclei that release 5-HT. Carbachol, a nonhydrolyzable cholinergic agonist, and 5-HT quickly and reversibly increased the amplitude of the LTT Ca2+ current. Carbachol's actions were blocked by atropine, indicating that this effect was mediated by muscarinic receptors.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We have inserted a Not1-Sal1 fragment of the mouse gene coding for the neurofilament protein NF-H behind the dexamethasone-inducible transcription promoter of MMTV in a vector derived from pMAMneo (Clonetech Labs). This construct, which includes all four exons of the NF-H gene, was amplified and incorporated into liposomes for transfection of L cells. Transfectants were selected in G418-containing medium and cloned. Clones were grown in serum-containing medium and screened for expression of the NF-H mRNA by extraction of total RNA, generation of cDNAs by reverse transcription, and amplification of a 900-base portion of the NF-H cDNA by PCR. Positive clones were detected by the presence of a band of the correct size on agarose gels. This was confirmed by Southern blotting of the gels probed with a 185-base segment of the amplified region. Immunofluorescent analysis of two positive clones, C33 and C34, showed that C33 cells grown in serum-containing medium or in serum-free medium in the presence of dexamethasone have a network of SMI32 (Sternberger/Meyer Inc.--monoclonal antibody against a nonphosphorylated epitope on NF-H)-positive filaments with the same distribution as filaments stained with antibodies to vimentin, while C34 cells do not react with antibodies against neurofilament proteins. Neither clone reacted with antibodies against highly phosphorylated NF-H (SMI31).
A number of axonal properties, including slow axonal transport and neurofilament phosphorylation, are altered in a mutant mouse strain with a Schwann cell deficiency, the Trembler. The Trembler phenotype is associated with poor myelination and reduced axonal caliber in the peripheral nervous system, but the genetic lesion has not yet been identified. To determine whether changes in axonal properties resulted from a direct action of Schwann cells on the axon, a segment of sciatic nerve from myelin-deficient Trembler mouse was grafted into the sciatic nerve of a normal mouse and normal axons were allowed to regenerate. Normal axons surrounded by Trembler Schwann cells are reduced in diameter, but resume their original diameter distal to the graft. Neurofilament transport was also affected locally in sciatic nerves with Trembler grafts into normal nerve. The velocity of neurofilament transport was not significantly different from controls in portions of the nerve proximal to the Trembler graft, but there was a reduction in neurofilament transport rates upon entering the Trembler graft. This was accompanied by an increase in the ratio of neurofilament over tubulin in the case of the Trembler graft, suggesting both a slowing of the neurofilament and an increase in the rate of tubulin transport. Using heterologous grafts of Trembler nerve segments into wildtype nerves, Schwann cells were shown to locally influence axonal caliber, neurofilament organization, and slow axonal transport. These observations emphasize the importance of glial cells in modulating neuronal structure and functions, as well as focusing attention on the role of glia in the etiology of neuropathologies that alter the neuronal environment.
We have initiated a multidisciplinary project that aims to dissect and ultimately define the functions of the long and unusual C-terminal &quot;tail&quot; sequences of the two high molecular weight neurofilament subunits, NF-M and NF-H. A series of recombinant fusion proteins containing selected NF-M and NF-H tail sequences were constructed using appropriate cDNAs. These fusion proteins were used to further define the epitopes for a variety of widely used neurofilament antibodies, including NN18 and N52, which are now available commercially from several companies. We also measured the SDS-PAGE mobility of the fusion proteins and found that, like the native neurofilament tails, the fusion proteins ran considerably slower than predicted from their molecular weight. Since all fusion proteins produced so far exhibit this characteristic we conclude that all segments of the NF-M and NF-H tail share this unusual property. Finally we were able to produce novel and potentially useful polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies to selected segments of NF-M and NF-H sequence. These antibody studies showed that the extreme C-termini of NF-M and NF-H are immunologically absolutely distinct from one another and also indicate that the extreme C-terminus of NF-M is immunologically much more conserved than the analogous region of NF-H. These findings are in complete agreement with our conclusions derived from amino acid sequence analysis, and further underline the possible functional importance of the extreme C-terminus of NF-M. We also show that the unusual immunological properties of the bovine NF-M tail we have previously observed do not extend to the extreme C-terminal region, which appears immunologically no different from the analogous region of other NF-M molecules. The peculiarities of bovine NF-M could be explained by the presence of a KSP motif that resembles the NF-H KSP prototype.
Traumatic atlanto-occipital dislocation is most often fatal. Consequently, there are only scattered case reports of patients surviving this injury, and treatment modalities are anecdotal and varied. The case of an 18-year-old woman who suffered an anterior atlanto-occipital dislocation as the result of a motor-vehicle accident is presented. Rigid posterior fixation and complete reduction of the dislocation were achieved using an anatomically contoured steel loop secured to the occiput and cervical vertebrae. The addition of cancellous bone to the graft afforded long-term stability. This operative treatment provided anatomical realignment of the dislocation and allowed early mobilization of the patient with the use of aggressive rehabilitation. Previously reported cases of patients surviving anterior atlanto-occipital dislocation are reviewed. The use of cervical traction, halo bracing, and operative stabilization is discussed.
In cerebellar granule cells, baclofen acted with micromolar concentrations at proposed gamma-aminobutyric acid-B receptors to inhibit the formation of cyclic AMP and depolarization-induced release of glutamate. Nanomolar concentrations of baclofen inhibited depolarization-induced influx of calcium. All three responses to baclofen were attenuated after pertussis toxin pretreatment of cell cultures. The inhibition of calcium influx and glutamate release were reversed by the cyclic AMP analog, 8-(4-chlorphenylthio)-cyclic AMP. The release of glutamate was dependent on the influx of extracellular calcium, which enters the cell through dihydropyridine-sensitive voltage-dependent calcium channels. Because the decrease in calcium influx by baclofen and nifedipine were additive, the baclofen-mediated decrease in calcium influx may not involve a dihydropyridine-sensitive calcium channel. These results show similarities between the baclofen-mediated inhibition of cyclic AMP formation and glutamate release, suggesting a relationship between these two events. The baclofen-mediated inhibition of calcium influx may not be related to baclofen's inhibition of glutamate release.
The use of visible light-cured (VLC) resin was evaluated in contrast to more traditional chemical-cured resins for reconstruction of the spine in experimental rats. Such procedures are used to reconstruct vertebra in humans following corpectomy for neoplastic destruction of the spine. Numerous disadvantages exist in the use of chemical-cured resins, including excessive heat generated during the polymerization, cytotoxic effects of the nonpolymerized monomers on adjacent tissues, increased risk of infection due to impaired immunity, and distortion problems with the polymers. A new visible light-cured resin, Triad, was tested for use in maxillofacial prosthetics and for vertebral body replacement in neuro-orthopedic surgery. This study evaluated the biocompatibility of the VLC resin system as a bone implant material. The results of this study have shown the VLC resins underwent polymerization without substantial exothermic reaction and the biologic testing indicated that they are nontoxic and biocompatible. Some of the advantages noticed by using VLC resin are accuracy of fit and ease of fabrication and manipulation.

Progressive resistance exercise was used to induce hypertrophy in the right palmaris longus muscle (PLM) of 16 cats. The left PLM served as the non-exercised intra-animal control. After an average 150 +/- 26.6 wk of training, left and right PLMs were removed and weighed. Muscle fibers were typed using standard histochemical techniques. Mean fiber cross-sectional area, connective tissue content, and muscle fiber length were determined. The right exercised PLM demonstrated a 24.2 +/- 6.9% increase in muscle mass. Mean muscle fiber cross-sectional area increased 11.0 +/- 7.3% in the exercised muscles. No change in connective tissue content, fiber length, or fiber type composition was observed. The results show that increases in muscle fiber cross-sectional area do not account for all the observed increases in muscle mass, and that other mechanisms, such as muscle fiber hyperplasia, may play a role in contributing to muscle mass increases.
Several studies suggest that alterations in the receptor-mediated phosphoinositide cascade and cytosolic free calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) are involved in the pathophysiology of aging and Alzheimer's disease. Therefore, the phosphoinositide cascade and [Ca2+]i were determined under resting conditions and after stimulation with bradykinin (100 nM) in cultured human skin fibroblasts from young (21 +/- 3 years), normal aged (59 +/- 6 years) and Alzheimer subjects (58 +/- 6 years). The inositol polyphosphates (IP3, IP2 and IP) were monitored after prelabeling the cells with [3H]inositol in serum free medium. [Ca2+]i was determined with the fluorescent probe, fura-2AM, under exactly analogous conditions. The bradykinin-induced formation of IP3 and IP2 increased significantly in fibroblasts from normal aged and Alzheimer donors compared to young subjects, but did not differ from each other. Bradykinin-induced IP3 formation was 63-117% above the young group at time points between 10-60 s in normal aged or Alzheimer donors. Bradykinin-induced IP2 formation was 49-59% above the young group at time points between 10-60 s in normal aged or Alzheimer subjects. Neither the basal [Ca2+]i, nor the bradykinin-stimulated [Ca2+]i, differed among fibroblasts from young, normal aged and Alzheimer donors. The precise molecular basis and pathophysiological significance of the enhanced bradykinin-induced phosphoinositide cascade in fibroblasts from aged donors remains to be determined.

Three centuries of investigations relevant to cerebral circulation, from the discoveries of circulation by Harvey (1628) and Willis (1664) to the 2-deoxyglucose methods of Sokoloff (1977), have been surveyed. Perspective is provided from discussion of such developments as: the discovery of oxygen and its role in combustion, respiration and cellular metabolism; recognition of the blood-brain barrier especially as selective exchange transport systems; introduction of the concept of metabolism and elucidation of details of glycolysis and oxidative phosphorylation; the discovery of neurotransmitters and an understanding of the ionic bases for conduction and neural activity; and introduction of modern techniques for studying cerebral circulation and metabolism, specifically, the Kety-Schmidt N2O method and the Sokoloff [14C]deoxyglucose autoradiographic method for regional and local applications, with subsequent adaptation to PET studies in situ.
Neurochemistry in the 1850s was part of comparative animal chemistry, which became incorporated into physiological chemistry. By 1900, the connection with physiological chemistry had largely lapsed or been vehemently repudiated. Growth of biochemistry, especially from the 1920s to 1950s, provided techniques and findings sufficient to reintegrate chemical knowledge of neural systems with neural functioning. Vitamin, coenzyme, respiratory and other metabolic studies made large contributions to this outcome. Regarding mental illness as a social problem and scientific challenge gave impetus and funds to such work, which resulted in major experimental and cognitive progress.
Of the 3,048 diagnostic muscle biopsies processed by the National Institute of Neuroscience, Tokyo, over 12 years, 41 cases carried the clinical diagnosis of limb-girdle muscular dystrophy. We have analyzed all 41 cases for dystrophin content in muscle by both immunofluorescence and immunoblot. We identified five male patients with an abnormal dystrophin pattern diagnostic of Becker muscular dystrophy, and two female patients with dystrophin patterns consistent with a manifesting carrier of Duchenne muscular dystrophy diagnosis. Thus, 17% of our limb-girdle patients showed a dystrophinopathy, indicating that they in fact had a disorder related to Duchenne/Becker muscular dystrophy. Misclassification of isolated male limb-girdle patients was 31% (4/13), while misclassification of isolated female limb-girdle patients was 13% (2/15). Using multiplex polymerase chain reaction analyses of small amounts of muscle biopsy DNA confirmed a dystrophin gene deletion in all five male Becker dystrophy patients identified. This study emphasizes the clinical overlap between limb-girdle muscular dystrophy and dystrophinopathies, and reinforces the necessity of dystrophin protein and gene studies for the accurate clinical diagnosis of isolated cases of muscular dystrophy.
In order to understand how the hair cell's mechanoelectrical transduction channels are gated during mechanical stimulation, it is essential to determine their location with respect to the hair bundle's constituent stereocilia. We localized the transduction channels by focally blocking receptor currents with iontophoretically ejected gentamicin, an aminoglycoside antibiotic that acts as a reversible channel blocker. The drug was most effective when directed at the top of a hair bundle, whereas application at the bundle's bottom or at the cuticular plate had little or no effect. Computer simulations of blocking agreed with experimental data only when the transduction channels were hypothesized to occur near the bundle's top. These results confirm that the hair cell's transduction channels are located near the stereociliary tips.
Perinatal M.S.G. treatment causes a syndrome characterized by damage to the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus, other circumventricular areas, parts of the visual system and the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. The resulting hormonal dysfunction may be responsible for developmental anomalies of organ systems, obesity, and alterations in sensory/motor performance. We have shown that some behavioral indicators of M.S.G. toxicity in rats can be masked by rearing them in enriched housing conditions. Here, we evaluated the impact of six housing conditions on M.S.G.-induced alterations of organ systems and behavior. Perinatal M.S.G. treatment reduced adrenal, heart and testes weights, as well as total white blood cell (WBC) counts, and increased tail flick latencies. These measures were unaffected by the housing condition. M.S.G.-induced reductions in body weight, grip strength, water maze and dominance task performance varied as a function of housing. Deficits in water maze performance were most evident following social and isolated single-cage housing. We propose that deficits in water maze performance following perinatal M.S.G. may be attributable to hippocampal damage that can be alleviated by rearing the rats in stimulating environments.
Recently, glial cytoplasmic inclusion (GCI) has been demonstrated to be argyrophilic cytoplasmic body by silver staining in the oligodendroglia of patients with multiple system atrophy. We observed such GCIs in all 20 cases of multiple system atrophy. No GCI was noticed in all 6 cases of hereditary spinocerebellar degenerations. Immunohistochemically, GCI was stained positively with antibodies to ubiquitin, alpha-tubulin, and beta-tubulin, of which characteristics is consistent with previous reports. In addition, GCI was first demonstrated to react with an antibody to microtubule-associated protein-1B(5), which is one of the proteins of cytoskeleton organization and a component of cross-bridges between microtubular assembly. The result suggests strong relationship between the formation of the OCI and immunohistochemical expression of MAP-1B(5).
Fourteen consecutive children (age range: 4 months to 11 years; median: 4 years) with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) were studied prospectively with cranial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and unenhanced computed tomography (CT). In 4 children, human immunodeficiency virus infection was transfusion-related, while in 10, transplacental transmission occurred. Twelve children had abnormal neurologic examinations; of these, 10 had developmental delay and 2 were normal by developmental history and neurologic examination. Standardized neuropsychologic tests were given to all children; 5 were in the normal range and 9 demonstrated significant delays in verbal or motor/perceptual development. All children with abnormal neuropsychologic results were developmentally delayed; however, in 2 infants with normal neuropsychologic assessments, developmental delay and abnormal neurologic examinations were documented. Brain parenchymal volume loss (8 patients) and cervical lymphatic hypertrophy (4 patients) were demonstrated equally well by MRI and CT. CT alone demonstrated striatal-thalamic calcification (1 patient), whereas MRI alone demonstrated delayed myelination (1 patient). The extent of focal white matter lesions in 1 patient was demonstrated better by MRI than by CT. No intracranial mass lesions were demonstrated; however, significant correlations were found between peripheral volume loss imaged by either MRI or CT and both verbal and performance scores. In our small series, MRI offered no apparent advantage over CT in evaluating children with AIDS. We suggest that CT alone is sufficiently sensitive in evaluating pediatric AIDS-related brain abnormalities.
The neuropathology of a 2 1/2-year-old patient with dihydropteridine reductase deficiency showed diffuse demyelination throughout white matter and spongy vacuolation in the long tracts of the brain stem. These changes are characteristic neuropathologic observations in untreated phenylketonuria. In addition, extensive neuronal loss, calcification and abnormal vascular proliferation were noted in the cerebral cortex, white matter, basal ganglia, and thalamus. Golgi studies demonstrated an abnormal orientation of neurons together with abnormalities of dendrites and dendritic spines. The pathogenesis of the vascular abnormalities in this condition is unknown, although folate deficiency may be involved. The secondary deficiency of serotonin and dopamine occurring during neuronal growth and differentiation may also affect the terminal stages of neuronal maturation.
The proteolytic conversion of oxytocin and vasopressin by purified rat brain synaptic membranes was studied at 37 degrees C and physiological pH 7.4. The formed peptide fragments were isolated by high performance liquid chromatography and characterized by amino acid analysis. When oxytocin was incubated with synaptic membranes, either C- or N-terminal fragments were found. The most abundant were [Cyt6]oxytocin(4-9), [Cyt6]oxytocin(3-9), [Cyt6]oxytocin(2-9), oxytocin(1-8) and oxytocin(1-7). In contrast, only C-terminal fragments, [Cyt6-Arg8]vasopressin(4-9), [Cyt6-Arg8]vasopressin(3-9) and [Cyt6-Arg8]vasopressin(2-9), were found by incubating [Arg8]vasopressin. The formation of C-terminal oxytocin and vasopressin fragments was inhibited by the aminopeptidase inhibitors amastatin and bestatin, while the formation of oxytocin(1-7) and (1-8) was inhibited by the divalent cations Hg(2+) and Zn(2+). The formation of oxytocin(1-7) was also partially prevented by the endopeptidase inhibitor phosphoramidon. The formation of both C- and N-terminal fragments was inhibited by o-phenanthroline. The results suggest that, while [Arg8]vasopressin is metabolized only by membrane-bound aminopeptidases, oxytocin is also metabolized by membrane-bound endopeptidases.
The effects of the anxiogenic beta-carboline FG-7142 (15 mg/kg IP) on exploratory locomotor activity were assessed in rats with sham or ibotenic acid (IA) lesions of the dorsal or ventral hippocampus. FG-7142 reduced exploratory activity similarly in control animals as well as in those with IA lesions of the ventral hippocampus. In contrast, FG-7142 had no effect on rats with dorsal hippocampal lesions. The results suggest that the dorsal hippocampus plays a unique role in FG-7142-mediated attenuation of locomotor exploration. Other studies suggest that serotonergic systems may mediate these properties of FG-7142.
To determine the influence of intrinsic neurons of the dorsal hippocampus on dopamine (DA) turnover in other limbic areas, DA and its metabolites were assayed in several brain areas 14 and 28 days after bilateral ibotenic acid (IA) lesions of the dorsal hippocampus in the rat. The locomotor response to d-amphetamine was also assessed. Spontaneous locomotion was increased 14 but not 28 days postoperatively. There was no change in d-amphetamine-induced locomotion at any time. Presynaptic indices of DA turnover in the medial prefrontal cortex, anteromedial striatum and nucleus accumbens were not affected by the lesion. Unlike lesions of the medial prefrontal cortex, deefferentation of the dorsal hippocampus does not increase DA turnover in the basal ganglia.
Following the initial demonstration of phosphorylation of endogenous brain proteins (Johnson et al., 1971), two decades of work have shown that this biochemical mechanism represents one of the most important means by which extracellular signals are transduced into changes in neuronal functions. Evidence discussed in this review shows that neural cells contain a plethora of protein kinases, protein phosphatases, and phosphorylated proteins and that many of these systems appear essential for the regulation of cell functions as diverse as membrane excitability, neuronal secretory processes, cytoskeletal organization, neuronal morphology, and cellular metabolism. Moreover, there exists intricate functional relationships between many of the neuronal protein phosphorylation systems, which allow &quot;cross-talk&quot; between distinct signals to take place in various brain cells. The properties of protein phosphorylation systems allow these regulatory systems to influence events taking place on a microsecond scale (e.g., neurotransmitter release) and events lasting for hours and days (e.g., LTP). Our present knowledge concerning neuronal protein phosphorylation has also allowed studies to be initiated regarding the possible involvement of protein phosphorylation in various clinical disorders affecting signal transduction and brain function. It seems safe to predict that continued studies of neuronal protein phosphorylation systems will continue to improve our understanding of the anatomical, physiological, and pharmacological basis for nervous system function in both health and disease.
NADPH diaphorase staining neurons, uniquely resistant to toxic insults and neurodegenerative disorders, have been colocalized with neurons in the brain and peripheral tissue containing nitric oxide synthase (EC 1.14.23.-), which generates nitric oxide (NO), a recently identified neuronal messenger molecule. In the corpus striatum and cerebral cortex, NO synthase immunoreactivity and NADPH diaphorase staining are colocalized in medium to large aspiny neurons. These same neurons colocalize with somatostatin and neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity. NO synthase immunoreactivity and NADPH diaphorase staining are colocalized in the pedunculopontine nucleus with choline acetyltransferase-containing cells and are also colocalized in amacrine cells of the inner nuclear layer and ganglion cells of the retina, myenteric plexus neurons of the intestine, and ganglion cells of the adrenal medulla. Transfection of human kidney cells with NO synthase cDNA elicits NADPH diaphorase staining. The ratio of NO synthase to NADPH diaphorase staining in the transfected cells is the same as in neurons, indicating that NO synthase fully accounts for observed NADPH staining. The identity of neuronal NO synthase and NADPH diaphorase suggests a role for NO in modulating neurotoxicity.

Displacement of the apical stereociliary bundle of cochlear hair cells mechanically gates transducer channels. Knowing the position of the channels with regard to the apical structures of the hair cell could indicate how this mechanism operates. At present, there is conflicting evidence regarding their precise location; the channels have been suggested to be located either towards the base of the stereocilia or at the tips where they could be operated by extracellular links running from the top of shorter stereocilia to the sides of adjacent taller ones. The channels have been shown to be reversibly blocked by amiloride. This has prompted us to use a polyclonal antibody raised against another amiloride-sensitive channel to search for them using immunolabelling. The location of the primary antibody has been revealed using pre-embedding labelling with a colloidal gold-conjugated secondary antibody followed by scanning transmission electron microscopy of semi-thin sections. In this way, more complete information on the relationship of the labelling to the three-dimensional organisation of the stereociliary bundle has been obtained in comparison with previous immunofluorescence and transmission electron microscopic results. Labelling occurs in discrete areas towards the tips of the stereocilia, one of the possible sites for the transducer channels, predominantly between the membranes of shorter and taller stereocilia.
Phosphomonoesters (PMEs), precursors of membrane phospholipids, are found in high levels in the developing brain and Alzheimer's disease brain. The present study details the neurophysiological and metabolic effects of acute PME elevation on the Fisher 344 rat in vitro hippocampal slice. Two abundant PMEs, phosphoethanolamine (PE) and L-phosphoserine (PS), reliably altered properties of synaptic transmission at the Schaffer collateral/commissural-CA1 cell synapse. Specifically, PE reversibly depressed the amplitude of population EPSPs at millimolar concentrations but had no effect at micromolar concentrations. PS had biphasic effects on population EPSPs, inducing first a reduction followed by an enhancement of response amplitude. In contrast to PE, the effects of PS were not reversible; population EPSPs were augmented during the wash of PS, and the CA3 region generated evoked (but not spontaneous) epileptiform discharges. 31P nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy revealed enhanced slice uptake of PS compared to PE. There was no significant effect of PE on slice high-energy phosphates but incubation with PS significantly lowered slice phosphocreatine (PCr) and ATP concentrations. These observations indicate that the slice uptake of PS could be energy requiring and the enhanced response amplitude observed at 5 mM PS also could produce a drain on high-energy phosphates. Possible modes of PME action on hippocampal physiology are discussed.
In an effort to achieve efficient image management in the practice of neurosurgery, a clinical data base system was designed and developed to process, store and retrieve neuroradiologic image information on hospitalized patients with the use of a local image filing system (EFPACS-500, Fuji Electric Co., Ltd). Storage and retrieval of radiographic images were studied to quantify existing procedures and to evaluate the validity of new technology. One of our hospitals (Southern Tohoku Research Institute for Neuroscience) has annually produced approximately 100,000 sheets of film radiographs, resulting in a great deal of serious problems, particularly lack of space for storage. In addition, the overall averaged ratio of selected key films to total files of radiographs was estimated to be 16.3% for hospitalized patients during the past 5 years. It is assumed that, by means of digital storage on this selective basis, radiographic storage problems can be solved with the use of the current data base system which efficiently handles image information involving patient care. In the practical view another substantial improvement in this work is the high functionality of the system, with which radiographic images coupled with a variety of clinical data on patients can be stored in a descriptive fashion.
Until recently, correlated neuronal activity was seen by many as an arcane subject, of interest only to those with mathematical minds and access to elaborate electronics. However, the list of situations in which correlated activity is known or strongly suspected to be highly influential now embraces almost every branch of neuroscience, including perception, memory and the development and plasticity of structural and functional linkages throughout the CNS. Previous reviews in TINS have covered several specific roles of correlated activity in detail. Here, my aim is to explore their diversity, emphasizing the organizing potential of correlation across timescales ranging from the momentary to the evolutionary.
Chemically and electrically induced seizures elicit the rapid transcriptional activation in neurons of a class of genes referred to as cellular immediate-early genes. Since the products of these genes include transcription factors and cytokines, they are proposed to be involved in coupling neuronal excitation to a complex, and poorly understood, programme of cellular responses that involves the regulation of gene expression. Products of two cellular immediate-early genes, c-fos and c-jun, are components of the transcription factor AP-1. In this review, Jim Morgan and Tom Curran discuss how these gene products have begun to reveal some of the molecular details of stimulus-transcription coupling in the nervous system following seizures. In addition, these genes have provided novel reagents and concepts for investigating the biochemical and cellular sequelae of seizure in the CNS, and point towards new avenues of research and potential therapeutic targets in epilepsy.
We have examined some of the physiological effects associated with the replacement of extracellular Na+ with Li+ in nominally Ca(2+)-free saline in the ventral photoreceptors of the horseshoe crab Limulus polyphemus. We observed that replacement of Na+ saline with Li+ saline induced larger voltage-activated inward currents with similar voltage dependence. These currents were absent in Tris+ saline. Anode-break excitation was maintained in Li+ saline but blocked in Tris+ saline. Regenerative events associated with quantum bumps in dark-adapted cells illuminated with dim lights were maintained in Li+ saline. Regenerative events associated with responses to moderately bright illumination were also maintained in Li+ saline. The post-illumination hyperpolarization associated with the Na+/K(+)-exchange pump (Brown &amp; Lisman, 1972) was present after brief exposure to Li+ saline but disappeared after longer exposure. Following return to Na+ saline, the post-illumination hyperpolarization reappeared. We conclude that (1) Li+ permeates the voltage-dependent Na+ channel, GNa(V), in the photoreceptor plasma membrane; (2) Li+ supports voltage-activated physiological events normally mediated by Na+; and (3) Li+ substitution briefly supports and later inhibits the electrogenic effects of the Na+/K(+)-exchange pump. The effects of external Li+ on cellular physiology have implications for the interpretation of other studies employing Li+ extracellularly.
Summary of the history of beginning and contemporary state of neurocomputing is given as a new trend of computing techniques. Peculiarities of architecture and functioning of neurocomputers are discussed in comparison with the ordinary computers. Perspectives and fields of application of neurocomputers are analyzed. Measures are proposed concerning the development and introduction of neurocomputing in the USSR.
Formation of scientific researches program of the Institute of Higher Nervous Activity and Neurophysiology of the USSR Academy of Sciences from the moment of its foundation in 1951 till the present time is considered as a result of creative interaction and inter-enrichment of three scientific schools connected with the names of E. A. Asratian, M. N. Livanov and V. S. Rusinov. The systemic principle in the integrative brain activity, the dominant phenomenon and the idea on spatial synchronization of the electrical processes in various cerebral micro- and macrostructures at the elaboration of conditioned reflex became a basis of long-term strategy of studies of the human and animals higher nervous activity. At the present time these studies embrace two main trends: mechanisms of learning and memory and neurophysiological bases of consciousness.
Previous studies showed that low concentrations of opioids prolong the calcium-dependent component of the action potential duration (APD) of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons, whereas higher concentrations shorten the APD. In the present study whole-cell voltage-clamp, as well as cell-attached membrane-patch voltage-clamp, recordings demonstrate that application of picomolar to nanomolar concentrations of mu, delta or kappa opioid agonists (DAGO, DPDPE or dynorphin) to DRG neurons in dissociated cell cultures reversibly decreased the activities of voltage-sensitive K+ channels. Pretreatment of DRG neurons with the opioid receptor antagonists, naloxone (30 nM) or diprenorphine (1 nM) prevented mu/delta or kappa opioid-induced decreases in K+ channel activities, respectively. Since opioids added to the bath solution decreased the activities of K+ channels in the membrane patch sealed off by the pipette tip, our results provide strong evidence that some modes of excitatory modulation of the action potential of DRG neurons are mediated by diffusible second messengers. The data are consonant with our previous studies indicating that opioids can elicit excitatory effects on sensory neurons via cholera toxin-sensitive Gs-linked excitatory opioid receptors coupled to cyclic AMP-dependent ionic channels.
Lithium inhibits myo-inositol mono- and polyphosphatase activity in brain at concentrations similar to those optimal for the treatment of manic depressive psychosis. A consequence of this inhibition is the possibility that the availability of myo-inositol for the regeneration of polyphosphoinositides involved in cellular signalling mechanisms may be reduced. While there are no good models of manic depressive disorders in rodents, lithium is known to alter their behavioural responsiveness to a number of neurotransmitter receptor agonists, but the role of the phosphatidylinositol second messenger system in these effects is unknown. Consistent with the myo-inositol depletion hypothesis, when injected directly into the CNS, myo-inositol, but not its biologically inactive epimer, scyllo-inositol or D-mannitol, has been found to reverse a proconvulsant action of lithium in mice given the muscarinic receptor agonist, pilocarpine.
The stimulatory effect of cocaine on locomotor activity and on dopamine efflux from the ventral striatum was studied in rats chronically treated with the antidepressant imipramine. Chronic imipramine (20 mg/kg per day for 3 weeks) potentiated by about 2-fold cocaine-stimulated motor activity and extracellular dopamine concentrations. The results indicate that chronic imipramine facilitates mesolimbic dopamine neurotransmission by potentiating the mechanism which is thought to mediate the rewarding effects of cocaine.
The nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) is phosphorylated to a high stoichiometry on tyrosine residues both in vitro and in vivo. Moreover, tyrosine phosphorylation has been shown to regulate the functional properties of the receptor. We report here the purification and characterization of a protein tyrosine phosphatase that dephosphorylates tyrosine-phosphorylated nAChR from Torpedo electroplax, a tissue highly enriched in the nAChR. The 32P-labeled tyrosine phosphorylated nAChR was used as a substrate to monitor the enzyme activity during purification. The protein tyrosine phosphatase activity was purified using three consecutive cation-exchange columns (phosphocellulose, S Sepharose Fast Flow, Bio-Rex 70), followed by two affinity matrices (p-aminobenzylphosphonic acid-agarose and thiophosphotyrosyl nAChR-Sepharose 4B). The enzyme activity was purified to homogeneity, with an overall purification of 25,000-fold and a yield of 20%. The purified enzyme had an apparent molecular mass of 43 kDa on sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gels and migrated as a monomer during Superose 12 chromatography. It had a neutral pH optimum and a specific activity of 18 mumol/mg of protein/min, with a Km of 4.7 microM for tyrosine-phosphorylated nAChR. The phosphatase was specific for tyrosine phosphorylated nAChR; it showed no activity towards the nAChR phosphorylated on serine residues by cAMP-dependent protein kinase. The enzyme also dephosphorylated 32P-labeled poly(Glu-Tyr) (4:1). However, it did not dephosphorylate p-nitrophenylphosphate. The tyrosine phosphatase was inhibited by ammonium molybdate (IC50 of 2 microM), sodium vanadate (IC50 of 150 microM) and the divalent cations Mg2+, Mn2+, and Ca2+ at millimolar concentrations, but not by 100 microM ZnCl or 10 mM NaF. Poly-(Glu, Tyr) (4:1) and heparin inhibited the enzyme activity at micromolar concentrations. These unique properties of the purified enzyme suggest that it may be a novel protein tyrosine phosphatase that specifically dephosphorylates the nAChR.

Weanling male rats were administered 1 of 4 diets for 40 days: control (CONT), low Ca (LOCA), control plus Cd (CONT + Cd) or low Ca plus Cd (LOCA + Cd). After 40 days, Cd was analyzed in 7 brain regions, spinal cord, serum, liver, kidney, muscle and femur by atomic absorption spectrophotometry with Zeeman background correction. No significant difference in Cd between CONT and LOCA was found except in femur, where it was increased. In CONT + Cd rats, peripheral tissues showed an increase in Cd of 30-71 fold above CONT rats. Brain regions exhibited a more modest 7-10 fold change, and serum Cd was 8.5 times above control. LOCA + Cd rats showed a 25-fold increase of Cd above LOCA in serum, 25-100 fold in peripheral tissues, and a 14-20 times in brain. These findings show that brain Cd is increased during Ca deficiency, but that central nervous system Cd changes less than peripheral tissue Cd. This increase in brain Cd could alter brain function.
The present study sought to identify specific opioid receptor subtypes involved in the modulation of affective defense behavior (AD) at the level of the midbrain periaqueductal gray (PAG). Cannula electrodes were utilized for eliciting AD from the PAG as well as for microinjecting mu, delta and kappa agonists and antagonists into these sites. Following microinjections of morphiceptin, D-Pen2,D-Pen5 enkephalin (DPDPE), or U-488H into sites from which AD was elicited, threshold values were determined. The results indicated that morphiceptin and DPDPE significantly suppressed AD in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Pretreatment with mu and delta opioid antagonists, B-FNA and ICI 174,864, completely blocked the suppressive effects of morphiceptin and DPDPE, respectively. Microinjections of morphiceptin and DPDPE failed to alter response thresholds for circling behavior also elicited from electrical stimulation of dorsal PAG. Administration of the selective kappa agonist, U-488H, or vehicle alone, did not alter the threshold for AD. The results of this study indicate that opioid peptides interact with mu and delta receptors within the midbrain PAG to powerfully suppress AD.
A subpopulation of retinal ganglion cells projecting to the pigeon ventral lateral geniculate nucleus was shown to contain cholecystokinin-like immunoreactivity. These ganglion cells were mainly distributed in the peripheral retina, and their somata sizes were medium to large (14-23 microns). Taken together with previous findings, these results indicate that the retinal input to the ventral geniculate is chemically heterogeneous.

We have recently shown that the enhanced expression of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity in co-cultures of spinal cord motoneurons and muscle cells was blocked by transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) (Dev. Brain Res., 57, 129-137, 1990). This study was performed to investigate the role of fibronectin in this effect. TGF-beta increased fibronectin level about 2-fold in extracellular matrix of spinal cord cells and skeletal myotubes in culture. Addition of a synthetic polypeptide that competitively inhibits fibronectin binding to its cell surface receptor recovered the TGF-beta-induced suppression of ChAT activity in co-cultures. The polypeptide did not affect ChAT activity in cultures of spinal cord cells alone or in co-cultures without TGF-beta. These results indicate that TGF-beta inhibits the stimulation of ChAT activity in spinal cord neurons in co-culture through a change in the composition and/or amount of fibronectin in the extracellular matrix at neuromuscular contacts.
Using monoclonal antibodies to choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), we have analyzed the development of the dendritic bundles formed by cholinergic sympathetic preganglionic neurons (SPNs) in relationship to changes in the organization of glial fibers. In adult rat thoracic spinal cord, SPNs in the intermediolateral (IML) and central autonomic (CA) regions extend dendrites in both the mediolateral and rostrocaudal directions, forming a ladder-like pattern in horizontal sections of thoracic spinal cord. We report that, while the mediolateral dendrites form prenatally, the rostrocaudal dendritic bundles are not detected until at least a week later, during early postnatal life. The rostrocaudal dendrites develop rapidly during the first postnatal week, and achieve an adult-like pattern by postnatal day 14. The observed ontogenetic arrangements of dendritic bundles were correlated with the developing organization of astroglial processes with which they are intimately associated. While the appearance of mediolateral dendrites is consistent with the radial organization of glial in the embryonic spinal cord, the developmental time course of the rostrocaudal dendritic bundles coincides with the transformation of glial cells from this predominantly radial or transverse orientation to the randomly-oriented, stellate pattern of mature astrocytes. This temporal association suggests that ontogenetic changes in the organization of glial cells may contribute to the differential development of mediolateral and rostrocaudal dendritic patterns in the spinal cord.
Entorhinal cortex is the major source of hippocampal afferents. Its neurons, especially in layer 2, develop neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) in Alzheimer disease (AD). We quantified entorhinal NFTs in cases of AD, elderly controls, and in brains with both AD pathology and subcortical and neocortical Lewy bodies, (a Lewy body variant, LBV). A nosologic controversy hinges on whether LBVs are a form of AD or a different disease, since they have few neocortical NFTs and their neuritic plaques often lack paired helical filament immunoreactivity. The LBVs had more entorhinal NFTs than controls (P less than 0.001), but fewer than ADs (P less than 0.02), despite comparable numbers of neuritic plaques. AD pathology in LBVs is of moderate severity, or perhaps in an earlier developmental stage.
The oxygenation state of hemoglobin (Hb) in the monkey forebrain was monitored continuously throughout nocturnal sleep using a near-infrared spectrophotometric technique. During rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, an increase in oxygenated Hb occurred concomitantly with a decrease in deoxygenated Hb, while no significant changes in Hb oxygenation were observed during slow wave sleep (SWS). A gradual increase in total Hb content was also observed to occur during each REM sleep episode but not during SWS.
Electrical stimulation (20-35 Hz, 2-5 V, 1.5 h) of the pelvic nerve in urethane-anesthetized rats increased the expression of c-fos protein-immunoreactivity primarily in neurons in the L6-S1 segments of the spinal cord. The neurons were localized to areas receiving afferent input from the pelvic viscera including the superficial dorsal horn, the dorsal commissure, and lateral laminae V-VII in the region of the sacral parasympathetic nucleus. These experiments indicate that (1) electrical stimulation of abdominal nerves following surgical exposure is a useful method for tracing visceral afferent pathways and (2) afferent information from the pelvic viscera is received by neurons in specific areas of the dorsal horn.
The frequency of occurrence of perforated synapses in the molecular layer of rat parietal cortex has been determined using the disector method. Perforated and non-perforated synapses were examined in electron micrographs, all quantitative procedures being carried out on adjacent sections, as required by the disector procedure. The numerical densities of perforated, non-perforated and all synapses were determined at nine ages, ranging from 0.5 to 22 months of age. The frequencies of perforated synapses were subsequently calculated. These ranged from 18.1% at 0.5 months to a peak of 37.2% at 10 months of age, and remained at around 34% up to 19 months. A frequency of 26.7% was found at 22 months of age. The mean projected height of the total perforation increased from 66 nm at 0.5 months to 133 nm at 22 months of age. These results suggest that perforated synapses are present throughout the life-span of the animal, and increase in complexity with increasing age.
Myenteric neurons which innervate the mucosa of the guinea-pig ileum were characterized by combining retrograde transport of DiI in vitro with immunohistochemistry. Of DiI-labelled myenteric neurons, 43% were immunoreactive for calbindin and substance P, 25% were immunoreactive for calbindin alone, and 18% were immunoreactive for substance P alone. These 3 classes of neurons had Dogiel Type II morphology and are probably sensory neurons. Two classes of probable secretomotor neurons were characterized by immunoreactivity for neuropeptide Y (4%) and vasoactive intestinal peptide (2%). These 5 classes of myenteric neurons represent over 90% of the retrogradely labelled myenteric neurons that project to the mucosa.
Sleep deprivation induced by the platform technique is considered to be a heavy stressful situation in rats. At the end of the sleep deprivation period (72 h) the rat displayed particular behavior characterized by wakefulness, a high degree of motor and exploratory activity, increased alertness and reactivity to environmental stimuli. Our previous results indicated that this behavior was antagonized by the administration of the opioid receptor antagonist naloxone and increased by opioid agonists. In this paper we show that concomitantly with this behavior, a decreased Bmax of mu and delta opioid receptors is present in the limbic system of these animals. These data suggest an active role of limbic mu and delta receptors in the generation of arousal and insomnia related to sleep deprivation induced stress.
The responses from isolated single otolith afferent fibers were obtained to small angle sinusoidal pitch and roll tilts in anesthetized gerbils. The stimulus directions that produced the maximum (response vector) and minimum response sensitivities were determined for each otolith afferent, with response vectors for the units being spread throughout the horizontal plane, similar to those reported for other species. A breadth of tuning measure was derived, with narrowly tuned neurons responding maximally to stimulation in one direction and minimally along an orthogonal ('null') direction. Most (approximately 80%) otolith afferents are narrowly tuned, however, some fibers were broadly tuned responding significantly to stimulations in any direction in the horizontal plane. The number of broadly tuned otolith afferents (approximately 20%) differs significantly from the more substantial number of broadly tuned vestibular nuclei neurons (88%) recently reported in rats.
The corneal reflex and the three components of the blink reflex (R1, R2, and R3) were recorded electromyographically in volunteers. The area of these responses was measured before and after administration of the narcotic-analgesic fentanyl (1.5 mg i.m.) and its antagonist naloxone, and after administration of the benzodiazepine diazepam (10 mg i.v.) and its antagonist flumazenil. Saline was given as a control placebo. The corneal reflex was 71% reduced by fentanyl, 43% by diazepam. R1 was 35% reduced and R2 was 60% reduced by diazepam. R3 was abolished by both drugs. Whereas the fentanyl-induced changes were completely reversed by naloxone, the diazepam-induced changes were only partly reversed by flumazenil. The corneal reflex appears to be a 'nociceptive' reflex under all points of view. Recording of the orbicularis oculi reflexes in man may be valuable in the evaluation of central-acting neurotropic drugs.
Trisomy 21 (Down syndrome) results in abnormalities of electrical membrane properties of cultured human fetal dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons; namely, faster rates of depolarization and repolarization of the action potential, and a shortened spike duration. A possible role of nerve growth factor (NGF) in the expression of abnormal electrical membrane properties fetal human DRG neurons from trisomy 21 subjects was examined. DRG neurons obtained from normal and trisomy 21 abortuses of 16-20 weeks gestation were cultured in the presence or absence of 40 nM 7S NGF. After 1 week in culture, action potentials were recorded using the whole cell patch-clamp technique, in current clamp mode. At the resting membrane potential, normal (diploid) neurons grown without NGF showed reduced maximal rates of depolarization (-41.3%) and of repolarization (-31.4%), a decreased spike amplitude (-14.2%) and a prolonged action potential (+49.2%), when compared to normal cells cultured with NGF. Trisomy 21 neurons showed similar changes, but had a greater relative decrease in the rates of action potential depolarization and repolarization. These changes were evident at different membrane potentials. Normal and trisomic DRG neurons cultured without NGF showed differences in action potential parameters similar to those previously described using NGF-supplemented culture medium. These data indicate that NGF can regulate electrical membrane properties in cultured human fetal DRG neurons, but apparently is not responsible for the abnormalities observed in trisomy 21 neurons.
Various inorganic selenocompounds dose-dependently inhibited the rat brain prostaglandin (PG) D synthase, both in the purified enzyme preparation and in the crude brain supernatant. All of the quadrivalent selenium compounds tested had a very limited range of IC50 values in the purified enzyme (11-12 microM) and in the brain supernatant (9-15 microM). A divalent selenium compound was also inhibitory, but a hexavalent selenium compound was ineffective. In contrast, organic selenocompounds such as selenomethionine and selenourea had no effect on the PGD synthase activity. Furthermore, sodium sulfate and sodium sulfite up to 10 mM did not inhibit the activity. The inhibition by selenium required the preincubation of the metal with sulfhydryl compounds such as dithiothreitol (DTT), indicating that the formation of selenotrisulfide or some other adduct(s) is essential for the inhibition. Furthermore, the inhibition was reversed by an excess amount of dithiothreitol, suggesting that the selenotrisulfide derivative of DTT binds to the SH group of the PGD synthase. The kinetic analysis revealed the inhibition by selenite to be noncompetitive with a Ki value of 10.1 microM. On the other hand, glutathione-dependent PGD synthase from rat spleen was much less inhibited, and PGF synthase and PGD2 11-ketoreductase activities were not inhibited by the selenium compound.
The dramatic increase in the arachidonic acid (AA) level in the brain is a well-known molecular event during cerebral ischemia. As mitochondria are known to be one possible site of the cell damage, the effects of AA on the respiratory activity of rat brain mitochondria were investigated in vitro using an oxygen electrode. In NAD-linked respiration, respiratory control ratio was decreased significantly by AA, with an IC50 of 6.0 microM. AA had the dual effect on mitochondrial respiration, a decrease in state 3 and uncoupled state and an increase in state 4 (i.e., uncoupling) as reported by Hillered and Chan (J. Neurosci. Res. 19, 94-100, 1988). Furthermore, we found that other unsaturated long-chain free fatty acids (C18:1-C18:3, C20:1-C20:5) also showed such a dual effect. Cyclooxygenase metabolites of AA such as prostaglandins (D2, E2, F2 alpha, E1) and thromboxane B2, and lipoxygenase metabolites such as leukotrienes (D4, B4) and 5- or 12-hydroperoxyeicosatetraenoic acid had no significant effect. The inhibition of the uncoupled state by AA was more marked in NAD-linked than that in FAD-linked respiration, while the degree of uncoupling by AA were the same in both respirations. In spectrophotometrical measurement, the reduction of cytochromes and flavo-protein was markedly inhibited by AA in NAD-linked respiration, but not in the FAD-linked one. In addition, the activity of cytochrome c oxidase was scarcely inhibited by AA. These data suggest that AA itself, not its metabolites, may inhibit mitochondrial ATP production during brain ischemia and that AA may act on the site(s) closely related to NAD-linked respiration, but not the FAD-linked one, in addition to its uncoupling effect.
The effects of arachidonic acid on the enzyme complexes in the electron transport system were investigated using submitochondrial particles from rat brain. Arachidonic acid irreversibly inhibited NADH-CoQ oxidoreductase (complex I) activity, but had no effect on the activities of succinate-CoQ oxidoreductase (complex II), CoQH2-cytochrome c oxidoreductase (complex III), cytochrome c oxidase (complex IV), ATPase (complex V), glutamate dehydrogenase, and malate dehydrogenase up to 50 microM. The inhibition was dose-dependent with an IC50 value of 110 nmol/mg protein. The Lineweaver-Burk plot revealed that the inhibition by arachidonic acid was noncompetitive against CoQ with a Ki value of 33 microM and uncompetitive against NADH with a Ki value of 22 microM.
We report the purification and characterization of an active catalytic fragment of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II, derived from autophosphorylation and subsequent limited chymotryptic digestion of the purified rat forebrain soluble kinase. The purified fragment was completely Ca2+/calmodulin-independent, existed as a monomer, and phosphorylated synapsin I at the same sites as does the native form of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II. Kinetic studies with the purified fragment revealed a more than 10-fold increase in Vmax and a 50% decrease in Km for synthetic peptide substrates, compared with native Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II. No 32P-labeled autophosphorylated residues were detected in the purified active fragment, indicating that the autophosphorylation sites were not contained within this fragment. Comparative studies of this active fragment (30 kDa) and its inactive counterpart (32-kDa fragment) revealed certain structural details of both fragments. Calmodulin-overlay study, immunoblot analysis, and direct amino acid sequencing suggest that both fragments contain the entire NH2-terminal catalytic domain and were generated by distinct cleavage within the regulatory domain. The putative cleavage sites for both fragments are discussed.
The postnatal ontogeny of cells expressing prepro-neurotensin/neuromedin N messenger RNA (prepro-NT/NN mRNA) in the rat forebrain and midbrain was investigated by in situ hybridization histochemistry. According to the pattern of expression during development, the cells which express prepro-NT/NN mRNA can be roughly divided into 2 groups. In type I cells, prepro-NT/NN mRNA expression reaches a maximum in terms of content during the postnatal period. After this early peak, cells of this type express the same or less prepro-NT/NN mRNA, reaching a plateau at an adult level that still contains a high level of expression. In type II cells, prepro-NT/NN mRNA appears during the postnatal period, and the expression decreases dramatically after the first postnatal week, being almost undetectable by a few weeks after birth. Type I cells were observed in the following areas: the piriform cortex, field CA1 of Ammon's horn, subiculum, vertical, and horizontal limbs of the diagonal band of Broca, intermediate part of the lateral septal nucleus, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, medial preoptic area, lateral hypothalamus, caudal part of the caudate putamen, medial, cortical, and central amygdaloid nuclei, ventral tegmental area, deep mesencephalic nucleus, cuneiform nucleus, dorsal raphe nucleus, laterodorsal tegmental nucleus, parabrachial nucleus, and oral part of the pontine reticular nucleus. Cells of type II were observed in the following areas: the mitral cell layer of the olfactory bulb, rostral part of the caudate putamen, (anterior) cingulate cortex, and retrosplenial cortex (posterior cingulate cortex).

Dopamine is shown to stimulate cAMP accumulation in COS-1 cells via endogenously expressed dopamine D1 receptors. A dissociation of dopamine and beta-adrenoceptor responses is demonstrated by the use of selective antagonists and different desensitization patterns following exposure of the cells to dopamine or the beta-adrenoceptor agonist, isoproterenol. The dopamine response in COS-1 cells exhibits a pharmacological profile similar to that found in dopamine D1 tissues such as rat striatum and fish retina. The presence of DARPP-32 (dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein, Mr 32,000) immunoreactivity in COS-1 cells is shown by Western blotting and is consistent with the endogenous expression of a dopamine D1 receptor in these cells. It is concluded that a dopamine D1 receptor is expressed in COS-1 cells and the implications of this are discussed.



Clinical evidence suggests different actions of amphetamine (AMPH) in children and adults. Using intracellular recording techniques, the actions of AMPH at 10 and 40 microM were investigated in granule neurons of hippocampal slices from pre- and postpubertal rats. AMPH (10-40 microM) caused depolarization of most postpubertal neurons, often with increased spontaneous activity, whereas most prepubertal neurons were hyperpolarized. In both age groups, AMPH caused increased neuronal excitability by reducing spike threshold, attenuating the postspike train afterhyperpolarization, reducing spike frequency adaptation, and potentiating excitatory postsynaptic potentials. Changes in cell input resistance were variable and Ca2+ currents were unaffected. AMPH actions took 10-15 min to appear and became maximal 30-55 min after application. The effects were reversible at 10 microM, but at 40 microM, prolonged washout for up to 2 h did not completely reverse these actions. The beta-adrenergic blocker, propranolol, partially blocked AMPH actions. The dopamine (D2) blocker, haloperidol, did not block AMPH actions. Mature neurons were also tested with 2.5 microM AMPH showing similar but more reversible effects as the higher concentrations. Depleting catecholamines by reserpine partly attenuated the effects of 40 microM AMPH in mature neurons. Perfusion of neurons with 10 and 20 microM cocaine did not produce effects similar to those of AMPH. It is suggested that AMPH produces its effects on granule neurons only in part through the release of norepinephrine. The involvement of other neurotransmitters and/or neuromodulators released by AMPH, or direct postsynaptic actions of AMPH are also possible.
The localization of phosphatase inhibitor-1 was investigated in rat brain by use of immunocytochemistry. Studies were performed with an affinity purified IgG raised against purified rabbit skeletal muscle inhibitor-1. In rat brain tissue homogenates, this antibody reacted only with a 29 kDa protein corresponding to inhibitor-1. Immunocytochemical studies with this antibody revealed numerous immunoreactive cell bodies and fibers. The highest concentration of immunoreactive perikarya was observed in the caudate-putamen and nucleus accumbens, and these appeared to be exclusively medium-sized neurons. Other areas containing substantial populations of immunoreactive neurons included the suprachiasmatic nucleus of the hypothalamus, lateral hypothalamus, horizontal limb of the diagonal band of Broca, dentate gyrus of the hippocampal formation, habenula, superior colliculus, claustrum, endopiriform nuclei, and neocortex. The distribution of terminals containing inhibitor-1 coincided with the distribution of terminal fields known to originate from the above regions. Thus, plexuses of immunoreactive axons were seen in the globus pallidus, substantia nigra pars reticulata, paraventricular hypothalamus, dorsal thalamus, CA3 region of the hippocampus, and interpeduncular nucleus. These results demonstrate that phosphatase inhibitor-1, a cyclic AMP-regulated inhibitor of phosphatase-1, is differentially distributed in the rat CNS. Given the widespread role of protein phosphorylation and dephosphorylation in intracellular signal transduction, these results suggest that neurons containing high levels of inhibitor-1 may share common, hitherto unrecognized, properties in terms of neurotransmitter regulation and/or responsiveness.

The possible morphological basis for electrical coupling between neurons of the prepacemaker nucleus was studied in weakly electric gymnotiform fish at the ultrastructural level. Three structural characteristics were found: Extremely dense clustering of cell bodies; 'bundling' of dendrites; and gap junctions between neurons. Electrical coupling may take place through gap junctions and the spatial arrangement of elements in the prepacemaker nucleus, which could enable ephaptic interactions. Such mechanisms may also be used for averaging the responses of individual neurons in the whole assembly in order to render more predictable behavioral reactions.
Dystrophic neurites are observed characteristically in Alzheimer's disease (AD). They are thought to arise from sprouting dendrites and contribute to dementia because of their abnormal growth and close association with neurofibrillary tangles and neuritic plaques. In the present study, dystrophic neurites are demonstrated in the thalamic reticular nucleus in AD in the context of a normal neural and glial architecture. They do not collocalize with somata and dendrites identified by simultaneous labeling with the microtubule-associated protein MAP2, suggesting that they are derived from axons. Throughout the brain, dystrophic neurites may well be comprised of a heterogeneous population of both dendrites and axon terminals and preterminals. While many recent studies have focused upon the dendritic origin of dystrophic neurites, these results emphasize that the interconnectivity of certain brain regions may be compromised by cytoskeletal changes occurring in neurons and their axons in AD.
Brain spectrin is a major membrane skeleton protein that participates in cellular transport, cell morphogenesis, neurotransmitter release and growth cone adhesion. The present study showed that in Alzheimer disease (AD) neuropil, brain spectrin immunoreactivity is co-localized with synaptophysin in the presynaptic boutons. At the ultrastructural level, brain spectrin immunoreactivity was observed in the presynaptic terminals and in the axoplasm of some myelinated and unmyelinated fibers. In addition to this normal localization of brain spectrin in the AD brain, we also found brain spectrin immunoreactivity associated with abnormal patchy lesions in the AD neuropil. Confocal laser imaging and immunoelectron microscopy revealed that these lesions corresponded to thick cellular processes derived from neurons. The findings that these structures were anti-neurofilament positive but anti-glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and Ricinus communis agglutinin I (RCA-I) negative confirm their neuronal origin, and rule out the possibility of glial origin. These structures could represent either atypical axonal or dendritic processes derived from sprouting neurons or the accumulation of brain spectrin degradation products in degenerating neurons.
The long-term effects of haloperidol on phosphoinositide turnover in rat brain slices were investigated. Continuous treatment with haloperidol decanoate (21 mg/kg I.M. biweekly for 6 weeks) significantly attenuated carbachol- and norepinephrine (NE)-induced inositol phosphate accumulation in rat frontal cortex and hippocampus. In the striatum, the haloperidol treatment also significantly decreased carbachol-stimulated inositol phosphate level but did not significantly affect NE-sensitive phosphoinositide turnover. These effects were not observed in rats treated with a single dose of haloperidol (1.5 mg/kg). Basel levels of inositol phosphate in these 3 brain regions did not change following continuous or single haloperidol doses.
Changes in D2 dopamine (DA) receptors in the substantia nigra (SN) and caudate nucleus (CN) homogenates were studied in rats following chronic treatment with the specific D2 receptor antagonist (-)-sulpiride (50 mg/kg s.c. twice daily for 8 days). Sixty hours after (-)-sulpiride withdrawal, the Bmax of [3H]spiroperidol binding (in the presence of 30 Nm ketanserin) was found to be increased by 76% and 38% in the SN and CN, respectively. No changes in the KdS were observed. The findings suggest that chronic (-)-sulpiride results in the upregulation of DA autoreceptors in the SN.
Phosphate activated glutaminase (PAG), an enzyme of glutamate synthesis, was localized by immunohistochemistry in all PNMT-immunoreactive and all serotonin-immunoreactive neurons in the rostral ventral medulla of the rat. Between 71 and 83% of bulbospinal neurons localised in the rostral ventral medulla projecting to the intermediolateral cell column in the upper thoracic spinal cord contained PAG immunoreactivity. Of these bulbospinal PAG-immunoreactive neurons 17-27% contained PNMT immunoreactivity and 9-16% contained serotonin immunoreactivity. Other bulbospinal PAG-immunoreactive neurons (60-70%) contained neither PNMT- nor serotonin immunoreactivity. The results provide anatomical evidence suggestive of a glutamatergic input to the sympathetic preganglionic neurons of the spinal cord arising from different populations of neurons located in the rostral ventral medulla.
When applied to rat hippocampal slices, the permeable calcium chelator, BAPTA-AM, caused a reduction of both post-spike train slow afterhyperpolarizations (AHPs) and spike-frequency adaptation in dentate granule cells. This indicated that BAPTA-AM can, like microinjected EGTA, block calcium-activated potassium channels. At perforant pathway synapses, BAPTA-AM caused a reduction of inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) and an initial increase and later decrease of excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs). The initial increase in EPSPs may be caused by presynaptic spike-broadening owing to inhibition of calcium-activated potassium channels which normally regulate the duration of the presynaptic action potential. These channels may be affected at lower doses of chelator than synaptic transmitter release. BAPTA salt injected into individual dentate granule cells caused, as expected, decreased AHPs and spike-frequency adaptation. Also, paradoxically, both excitatory and inhibitory synaptic potentials were increased although input resistance was not.
Eye movements that follow a target (pursuit eye movements) facilitate high acuity visual perception of moving targets by transforming visual motion inputs into motor commands that match eye motion to target motion. The performance of pursuit eye movements requires the cerebellar flocculus, which processes both visual motion and oculomotor signals. Electrophysiological recordings from floccular Purkinje cells have allowed the identification of their firing patterns during generation of the image velocity and image acceleration signals used for pursuit. Analysis with a method based on a behavioral model converted the time-varying spike trains of floccular Purkinje cells into a description of the firing rate contributed by three visual motion signals and one oculomotor input. The flocculus encodes all the signals needed to guide pursuit.
Monoamine oxidase (MAO) is a critical enzyme in the degradative deamination of biogenic amines throughout the body. Two biochemically distinct forms of the enzyme, A and B, are encoded in separate genes on the human X chromosome. In these studies we investigated the role of the structural gene for MAO-A in determining levels of activity in humans, as measured in cultured skin fibroblasts. The coding sequence of the mRNA for MAO-A was determined by first-strand cDNA synthesis, PCR amplification, and direct dideoxy sequencing. Two single-basepair substitutions were observed in cDNAs from cells with a 30-fold difference in activity levels. These two substitutions were in the third base of a triplet codon and hence did not affect the deduced amino acid sequence but did affect the presence or absence of restriction-enzyme sites for EcoRV and Fnu4HI, which could be elucidated on PCR fragments derived from genomic DNA or cDNAs. A third polymorphism for MspI in the noncoding region of the MAOA gene was also evaluated by Southern blot analysis using genomic DNA. Statistically significant associations were observed between the alleles for MAOA and levels of MAO activity in human male fibroblast lines. This association indicates that the MAOA gene itself is a major determinant of activity levels, apparently, in part, through noncoding, regulatory elements.
Regional blood-brain barrier permeability-surface area products (PAs) of cationized bovine serum albumin (cBSA) with isoelectric point (pI) approximately 8 or greater than or equal to 11 and of native bovine serum albumin (nBSA;pI approximately 4) were determined in awake male Sprague-Dawley rats after bolus intravenous injection. The albumins were labeled with 125I. Brain uptakes were assessed by autoradiography and by direct assay of radioactivity in brain regions. nBSA uptake into brain was statistically insignificant over 3 h, whereas cBSA uptake was significantly even at 6 min. Mean PA values of cBSA with pI approximately 11 (1.69-2.65 x 10(-5) ml.s-1.g-1) in most brain regions were twofold higher than PAs of cBSA with pI approximately 8 (0.98-1.37 x 10(-5) ml.s-1.g-1), whereas mean PA for nBSA did not differ significantly from zero. Autoradiographs of brain slices and net distributions in brain compartments at 6 and 30 min after injection suggested that cBSA entered the brain parenchyma via blood vessels and cerebrospinal fluid but that the former was the main route. The results quantitate for the first time regional brain PA values for cationized proteins and suggest specific mechanisms at cerebral blood vessels that distinguish transport of cationized from noncationized macromolecules.
The estimation of the number of channels in a patch was assumed to be equivalent to the estimation of the binomial parameter n. Seven estimators were evaluated, using data sets simulated for a range of parameters appropriate for single channel recording experiments. No single estimator was best for all parameters; a combination of estimators is a possible option to avoid the biases of individual estimators. All estimators were highly accurate in estimating n in the case that n = 1. For n &lt;/= 4 the simplest estimator, the maximum number of simultaneously open channels, was the best, For larger values of n the best estimators were Bayesian.
In perforated patch recording, the pore former nystatin is incorporated into a cell-attached patch, to increase its conductance. The possibility of lateral diffusion of nystatin through the membrane and under the glass-membrane seal was examined by reversing the nystatin gradient. Namely, a cell-attached patch on a cell was examined while placing nystatin into the bath. The reversal potential and current-voltage relationship of single Ca2+ activated K+ channels in the patch were readily changed by varying the K+ concentration in the bath, showing that nystatin was active in the cell membrane outside of the patch. However, the patch itself did not become leaky. The absence of a conductance induced in the patch by the nystatin in the rest of the plasma membrane of the cell suggests that the lateral diffusion of nystatin is inhibited by the glass-membrane seal.
1. An acute model of focal ischaemia, which involves permanent occlusion of the middle cerebral artery of the rat with 4 h survival, was used to find the minimum effective plasma concentration of dizocilpine (MK-801) and to determine its dose-effect relationship. 2. MK-801 was administered at the time of occlusion and was given as an i.v. bolus followed by an infusion for 4 h to maintain a steady state plasma concentration of the drug throughout the study. MK-801 was given at 3 dose levels; 0.04 mg kg-1 i.v. bolus + 0.6 micrograms kg-1 min-1 infusion; 0.12 mg kg-1 i.v. bolus + 1.8 micrograms kg-1 min-1 infusion; 0.4 mg kg-1 i.v. bolus + 6 micrograms kg-1 min-1 infusion, which gave mean plasma levels over the 4 h of 8.0 ng ml-1, 18.9 ng ml-1 and 113.2 ng ml-1 respectively. 3. MK-801 at 8.0 ng ml-1 gave 10% reduction in the volume of ischaemic brain damage in the cerebral cortex which just reached significance. The middle dose of MK-801 (18.9 ng ml-1) gave a highly significant reduction in the volume of ischaemic brain damage in the cerebral cortex and hemisphere, volumes of ischaemic tissue being reduced by 60% and 50% compared to saline-treated animals, respectively. The highest plasma concentration of MK-801 (113.2 ng ml-1) resulted in a 35% reduction in the volume of hemispheric damage and a 40% reduction in the volume of cortical damage, which were significant.4. The reduction in the amount of protection afforded by the highest dose of MK-801 may be due to the hypotensive effect of this dose. There was no protection against the volume of damage in the caudate nucleus for any of the doses of MK-801 tested.5. Therefore the minimum effective plasma concentration of MK-801 was 8.0 ngml1, although the greatest protection was seen with a plasma level of 18.9 ng ml- 1. This correlates well with the concentration of MK-801 required to block N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors and prevent NMDA receptor mediated neurotoxicity in vitro.
1. The concentration of tacrine (tetrahydroaminoacridine or THA) in plasma, regions of brain and cerebral extracellular fluid has been studied in the rat at various times following injection of a dose of 5 mg kg-1, i.p. 2. The peak plasma THA concentration was 2.46 nmol ml-1, and occurred 30 min post injection and clearance was first order (t1/2 = 90 min). The concentration in the brain peaked between 30-60 min, and was around 30 times plasma concentration (striatum peak concentration = 65 +/- 3 nmol g-1). Extracellular cerebral concentration measured by in vivo microdialysis was similar to plasma concentration with the peak occurring 100 min post-injection. 3. No evidence was obtained by in vivo dialysis for THA inducing dopamine release from striatum or 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) release from the frontal cortex. Enhanced release of dopamine did occur after (+)-amphetamine (5 mg kg-1, i.p.) injection, while KCl (100 mM) in the probe released both dopamine and 5-HT. 4. Since the minimum plasma THA concentration achieved in this study was at least twice that found in the plasma of patients given THA for the treatment of dementia, these results suggest that monoamine release in the brain does not occur during therapy.
1. The effects of the glycine/NMDA receptor antagonist, (+)-HA-966 on the neurochemical and behavioural responses to amphetamine have been determined in the mouse and rat. 2. In vehicle-treated control mice, (+)-HA-966 (30-100 mg kg-1) did not affect dopamine synthesis in either the nucleus accumbens or striatum and was without marked effect on spontaneous locomotor activity. 3. In the mouse, (+)-HA-966 (30 and 100 mg kg-1) dose-dependently blocked the enhancement of dopamine synthesis induced in the nucleus accumbens by amphetamine, but was without effect on the increase in dopamine synthesis in the striatum. 4. Intracerebroventricular administration of the glycine/NMDA receptor antagonist, 5,7-dichlorokynurenic acid, in the mouse (10 micrograms) also significantly attenuated amphetamine-enhanced DOPA accumulation in the nucleus accumbens, but not in the striatum. 5. The decrease of dopamine synthesis in striatum and nucleus accumbens induced by the dopamine receptor agonist, apomorphine, was unaffected by (+)-HA-966 (100 mg kg-1). 6. (+)-HA-966 (30 mg kg-1) failed to attenuate the hyperactivity induced by the systemic administration of amphetamine in the mouse, but totally prevented the hyperlocomotion following infusion of amphetamine into the rat nucleus accumbens. In contrast, stereotyped behaviour induced by infusion of amphetamine into the rat striatum was not altered following pretreatment with (+)-HA-966 (30 mg kg-1). 7. The results are consistent with a selective facilitatory role of glycine/NMDA receptors on mesolimbic dopaminergic neurones.
Brief cutaneous heat stimuli generated by a CO2 laser were used to elicit late somatosensory evoked cerebral potentials (SEPc) in 10 patients with syringomyelia. For comparison, early and late cerebral potentials in response to electrical nerve stimuli (SEPn) were recorded in the same session. In 8 patients with localized impairment of pain and temperature sensitivity we found complete absence of SEPc after stimulation of the affected area; in another patient with similar sensory deficits, the SEPc was grossly attenuated and delayed. In 1 patient with intact pain sensitivity but absent temperature sensitivity, a well defined SEPc could be recorded. Both early cortical SEPn and late SEPn in response to conventional nerve stimuli were normal in all patients and thus did not differentiate control and affected areas. These data indicate that alteration of SEPc correlates with altered pain sensitivity in patients with a circumscribed spinal lesion. SEPc may thus be used as a neurophysiological test in the assessment of hypalgesic dermatomes.
Using molecular genetic approaches, two forms of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) have so far been identified; a pulmonary form and a testicular form. This study utilized both northern blot analysis and in-situ hybridization to examine the expression of ACE mRNA in the rat brain. Northern blot analysis using oligonucleotide probes specific to the testicular or pulmonary forms of ACE demonstrated expression of a 4-5kb mRNA doublet in the rat brain, identical in size to pulmonary ACE mRNA. No expression of the testicular form of ACE mRNA was detected in the brain. In situ hybridization demonstrated that ACE mRNA was expressed in the choroid plexus, caudate putamen and cerebellum. A weak signal was also observed in the hippocampus. This distribution correlated well with the expression of ACE mapped by radioligand binding and autoradiography.

A 29 year old man had an accessory branch of the superficial peroneal nerve which entered the foot by rostro-caudally traversing the lateral malleolus laterally. The nerve was entrapped by a fascial band, resulting in pain over the lateral malleolus and dorsum of foot. Symptoms resolved when the nerve was surgically released.
CAA is the infiltration of leptomeningeal and penetrating cortical vessels with amyloid, sparing the subcortical regions and the systemic vasculature. It occurs with increasing frequency after the sixth decade. The major clinical manifestation of CAA is lobar intracerebral hemorrhage, which can be sporadic or hereditary. CAA has also been associated with normal aging, Alzheimer's disease, cerebral infarction, and periventricular demyelination. Biochemical studies have shown that the amyloid deposits in the brains of patients with normal aging, sporadic CAA-associated hemorrhage, hereditary cerebral hemorrhage, and Alzheimer's disease are identical. The exact mechanism by which CAA produces lobar hemorrhages and the role of CAA in the development of dementia are unclear. Biopsy of the involved cerebral cortex and leptomeninges is the only definitive way to diagnose CAA. Acute management of CAA-associated lobar hemorrhage consists of aggressive control of associated hypertension and supportive care. Surgical removal of the hemorrhage has not been shown to improve survival. Antiplatelet and anticoagulant therapy should be avoided in elderly patients with known CAA.
We studied the effectiveness of OR-611 and OR-462, two novel inhibitors of the enzyme catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), on 3-O-methyldopa (OMD) formation in cynomolgus monkeys following intravenous levodopa administration. OR-611 dose-dependently reduced the area under the OMD concentration-vs-time curve, reduced maximum plasma OMD concentrations, delayed the time to peak OMD levels, reduced systemic levodopa clearance, and prolonged the elimination half-life of levodopa. Similar effects on peripheral levodopa metabolism were seen with doses of 15 mg/kg of OR-611 and OR-462, its sister compound, which lacks the ability to penetrate the central nervous system (CNS).
Depression in the elderly can be difficult to diagnose but often responds well to treatment. In treating late-life depression, we have the satisfaction not only of relieving our patients' distress but very likely of prolonging their lives as well.


Mutations that affect the morphogenetic behaviour and differentiation of neural crest-derived cells in mouse embryos have been shown to alter genes that code for growth factors or growth factor receptors. Identification of these and other gene products provide opportunities to understand when and how developmentally distinct embryonic cell populations arise, and how interactions between localized developmental cues and responsive cell subpopulations can be modulated during development.
In the past several years there has been great progress in the understanding of the phototransduction process in retinal photoreceptors. Recently, this knowledge has expanded and we now understand the mechanism of background light adaptation in these cells and the role that calcium has to play.

Microelectrode recording was carried out in the thalamic reticularis nucleus (Rt) during 51 stereotaxic operations performed in locally anesthetized dyskinetic patients. The spontaneous activity (SA) of 426 units was studied by means of computer processing techniques. Three types of unit (A, B, C) were shown to exist in Rt: with irregular low-frequency (0-10/sec) discharges (A type, 51%); bursting in short trains (10-30 msec) with unstable rhythmic pattern (2-5/sec; B type, 42%); presenting long duration (0.1-2 sec) high frequency bursts and relatively constant interburst silences (80-150 msec; C type, 7%). During short-term anesthesia A unit discharges disappeared; on the contrary the rhythmic bursts of B neurons were synchronized and presented a more stable frequency. The 3 types of cell were present in the whole Rt. However, a number of discharge characteristics (frequency, variation of rhythm) of A and B units changed significantly with the position of the cells in the Rt. No relationship was found between the frequencies of the rhythmic bursts and the parkinsonian tremor. With the use of a multiparametric statistical procedure, a relation was, however, found between the intensity of the peripheral tremor and the stability of the average frequency of the B type rhythmic bursts. The possible origins of rhythmic bursts of B and C neurons are discussed.
In men and adult male rhesus monkeys brief periods of fasting (i.e. 1-2 days) can often lead to a suppression of hypothalamic-pituitary-testicular axis activity, marked by decreased circulating concentrations of LH, FSH, and testosterone. Refeeding a normal meal can rapidly restore normal secretory patterns of LH and testosterone. To learn more about the nature of the signal that links reproductive hormone secretion to nutrient intake, we examined whether the degree of restoration of pulsatile LH and testosterone secretion after a brief period of fasting is influenced by the size of the refeed meal. Adult male rhesus monkeys had indwelling venous catheters surgically implanted and were maintained on swivel/tether systems for remote collection of blood samples. Monkeys were fasted for 1 day and then on the following day they were refed one of five meals which varied in size and calorie content (i.e. 0 Cal/0 pellets Purina monkey chow; 100 Cal/5 pellets; 200 Cal/10 pellets; 300 Cal/15 pellets; or 600 Cal/30 pellets). Blood samples were collected from 0800-2400 h at 20-min intervals on the days of refeeding and assayed for LH and testosterone content. After a day of fasting, the frequency of pulsatile LH secretion the following morning was very low (0.56 +/- 0.1 pulses/3 h, measured from 0800-1100 h). When monkeys were not refed (i.e. were subjected to a second day of fasting; 0 pellet group) LH pulse frequency remained low [2.88 +/- 0.72 pulses/13 h, measured from 1100-2400 h (equivalent to 0.66 pulses/3 h)] throughout the day and evening hours. Refeeding monkeys 5, 10, 15, and 30 pellets caused a progressive stimulation of pulsatile LH secretion (3.17 +/- 0.54, 3.67 +/- 0.56, 5.5 +/- 0.67, and 6.38 +/- 0.53 pulses/13 h, respectively). Like LH pulse frequency, mean circulating LH and testosterone concentrations progressively increased as the size of the refeed meal was increased. For all three parameters (i.e. LH pulse frequency, mean LH concentration, and mean testosterone concentration) there was a significant, P less than or equal to 0.001, linear trend with increasing meal size. These findings indicate a very strong relation between the level of nutritional intake and the level of central drive to the reproductive axis during nutritional recovery from fasting, and suggest a physiological parameter that responds in a progressive fashion to increasing food intake serves as the signal to link central drive to the reproductive axis to changes in nutrient intake.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Diazepam binding inhibitor (DBI) is a 9-kDa polypeptide that was initially isolated from rat brain and subsequently found to be present in several peripheral tissues. DBI is particularly abundant in steroidogenic tissues, such as the adrenal glands and testes, which also contain a high concentration of peripheral/mitochondrial benzodiazepine receptors (MBRs). Because occupancy of adrenal MBRs with DBI results in increased steroidogenesis, we have investigated the relation between ACTH, DBI, and the MBR in the rat adrenal glands. Evidence presented here indicates that both the amount of DBI and its rate of synthesis in the adrenal cortex are under the control of ACTH. Seven and 9 days after hypophysectomy, the amount of DBI-like immunoreactivity (DBI-LI) in rat adrenal glands decreased dramatically from approximately 80 to 15 ng/mg tissue. The administration of single dose of ACTH (ACTH residues 1-39; 200 mU/kg, iv) or repeated doses of ACTH-R (ACTH in saline containing 16% gelatin; 15 U/kg, sc, twice daily) reduced the decrease in adrenal DBI-LI caused by hypophysectomy. In hypophysectomized rats (7 days after hypophysectomy) the increases in both adrenal DBI-LI and plasma corticosterone induced by ACTH 1 h after a single injection (200 mU/kg, iv) were inhibited by injection of cycloheximide (40 mg/kg, ip) 10 min after ACTH. However, cycloheximide at this dose had no effect on the ACTH-induced increase in adrenal cAMP concentration or the number of affinity of MBRs for 4'-[3H]chlorodiazepam.
We used monoclonal antibodies against specific integrin subunits to examine the role of integrin receptors in keratinocyte activation. We found that before activation, beta 1 subunits in keratinocytes showed a diffuse distribution, whereas after activation, keratinocytes organized beta 1 receptors into marginal adhesion plaques. In immunoprecipitation experiments with antibodies against beta 1 integrin subunits, we found mostly immature subunits synthesized in keratinocytes freshly harvested from skin. Moreover, integrin receptor complexes immunoprecipitated from these cells by monoclonal antibodies against alpha 2, alpha 3, or alpha 5 subunits contained only immature beta 1 subunits. With keratinocytes cultured 4-7 days, anti-beta 1 antibodies immunoprecipitated mostly mature beta 1 subunits, and integrin complexes immunoprecipitated from cultured cells by anti-alpha subunit antibodies contained mostly mature beta 1 subunits. Antibodies directed against beta 1 subunits also inhibited keratinocyte migration. Based on these results, we suggest that up-regulation of migration by activated keratinocytes depends on changes in processing of pre-beta 1 subunits to mature beta 1 subunits. We also studied the distribution of integrin subunits in skin and on keratinocytes migrating out of skin explants. Whereas beta 1, alpha 2, and alpha 3 subunits were detected in keratinocytes in skin and migrating out of explants, alpha 5 subunits were observed only in migrating cells.
Reactive synaptogenesis and terminal proliferation are known to occur in the dentate gyrus of the rat hippocampus following removal of specific afferents. In the present study we have examined the relation of synaptophysin immunoreactivity to the immunohistochemical staining pattern of GAP-43, a putative marker of neuritic growth. Within the molecular layer of the normal dentate gyrus, synaptophysin immunolabeling shows a trilaminar pattern, with the inner and outer layers having the greatest density of staining. Within the first week following denervation, there was a significant decrease in the staining density in the outer two-thirds of the molecular layer, followed by a moderate recovery at 14 days and 80% recovery by 30 days. This pattern is consistent with the time course of denervation and reinnervation in this system as determined previously by electron microscopy. By comparison, the staining pattern for GAP-43 in the intact dentate gyrus showed the middle and outer thirds of the molecular layer to be less densely stained than the inner third. Within a week following deafferentation, the outer two-thirds of the molecular layer displayed decreased levels of GAP-43 immunoreactivity, followed by recovery to normal levels by 30 days. By 84 days postlesion, patterns of both synaptophysin and GAP-43 immunostaining reflected an increased width of the inner molecular layer. Laser confocal imaging of double-immunolabeled sections at 14 days postlesion showed a 370% increase in the number of GAP-43-positive terminals in the molecular layer as compared to unoperated controls. Many of these GAP 43-positive terminals were synaptophysin negative. We conclude that GAP-43 may play a role in the synaptic remodeling that occurs in the denervated rat hippocampus and that quantitative morphometry of synaptophysin immunolabeling accurately reflects the fate of presynaptic terminals in this model of degeneration and reinnervation.
The type VIII collagen tissue distribution in human adult (32-78 yr of age) and fetal (16-27 weeks of gestation) eyes was studied immunohistochemically using a monoclonal antibody to type VIII collagen. Type VIII collagen was distributed in a linear or fibrous fashion in adult eyes in Descemet's membrane of the cornea, the trabecular meshwork, the walls of Schlemm's canal, Bruch's membrane, the choroidal stroma, the sclera, the cribriform plates of the optic nerve, and the intima of the central retinal artery. The staining in the central retinal artery was similar to that of type IV collagen. No distinct positive staining was seen in other blood vessels. When fetal eyes were examined, significant differences in positive staining were found between adults and fetuses in the sclera. In fetal eyes, the posterior sclera was strongly stained; however, the positive staining gradually decreased, and in the equatorial area it disappeared. The cribriform plates of the lamina cribrosa and the presumptive Bruch's membrane in fetal eyes did not react with the antibody. The trabecular meshwork and Descemet's membrane, but no other part of anterior section of fetal eyes, reacted with the antibody.
An Indian female with familial amyloidotic polyneuropathy is reported. The literature with regard to recent advances in the field is reviewed.
The ways in which the various microtubule-associated proteins (MAPs) contribute to cellular function are unknown beyond the ability of these proteins to modify microtubule dynamics. One member of the MAP family, tau protein, is restricted in its distribution to the axonal compartment of neurons, and has therefore prompted studies that attempt to relate tau function to the generation or maintenance of this structure. Sf9 cells from a moth ovary, when infected with a baculovirus containing a tau cDNA insert, elaborate very long processes. This single gene product expressed in a foreign host cell grossly alters the normal rounded morphology of these cells. The slender, relatively nonbranched appearance of these processes as well as their uniform caliber resembles the light-microscopic appearance of axons observed in several neuronal culture systems. Immunolabeling of the tau-expressing Sf9 cells demonstrated tau reactivity in the induced processes, and EM that microtubule bundles were present in the processes. Microtubule stabilization alone was insufficient to generate processes, since taxol treatment did not alter the overall cell shape, despite the induction of microtubule bundling within the cell body.
The synthesis and dopaminergic activity of a series of C3 and nitrogen-substituted 1-(aminomethyl)-3,4-dihydro-5,6-dihydroxy-1H-2-benzopyrans (isochromans) is described. The synthesis of the compounds was stereospecific for the 1,3 cis isomer, and the enantioselective synthesis of both enantiomers of one of the analogues (20) was achieved. It was determined that all of the dopaminergic activity resides in the [1R,3S] isomer. Generally, substitution at the C3 position provided compounds with very high potency (less than 10 nm EC50) and selectivity for the D1 receptor, with a wide range of intrinsic activities (60-160%). Analogues containing C3 substituents including aryl, arylalkyl, and cyclic and acyclic alkyl groups showed a marked enhancement of dopaminergic activity compared to the unsubstituted compound. As a class, the drugs were orally active in the rat rotation model with a very long duration of action.
Generation of antibodies and direct protein sequencing were used to identify and characterize proteins associated with highly purified synaptic vesicles from rat brain. A protein doublet of low abundance of 119 and 124 kDa apparent molecular mass [synaptic vesicle-associated phosphoprotein with a molecular mass of 120 kDa (SVAPP-120)] was identified using polyclonal antibodies. SVAPP-120 was found to copurify with synaptic vesicles and to be enriched in the purified synaptic vesicle fraction to the same extent as synapsin I. Like synapsin I, SVAPP-120 is not an integral membrane protein because it was released from synaptic vesicles by high salt concentrations. This protein was demonstrated to be brain specific, and its distribution in various brain regions paralleled the distribution of synapsin I and synaptophysin. During the postnatal development of the rat cortex and cerebellum, its expression correlated with synaptogenesis. SVAPP-120 was demonstrated to be a phosphoprotein both in vivo and in vitro. It was shown to be phosphorylated on serine and to a lesser extent on threonine residues. These results provide evidence that SVAPP-120 represents a novel synaptic vesicle-associated phosphoprotein. In addition, aldolase, a glycolytic enzyme, and alpha c-adaptin, a clathrin assembly-promoting protein, were identified on purified synaptic vesicles by direct protein sequencing.
The effect of increasing concentrations of Zn2+ (1 microM-5 mM) on protein phosphorylation was investigated in cytosol (S3) and crude synaptic plasma membrane (P2-M) fractions from rat cerebral cortex and purified calmodulin-stimulated protein kinase II (CMK II). Zn2+ was found to be a potent inhibitor of both protein kinase and protein phosphatase activities, with highly specific effects on CMK II. Only one phosphoprotein band (40 kDa in P2-M phosphorylated under basal conditions) was unaffected by addition of Zn2+. The vast majority of phosphoprotein bands in both basal and calcium/calmodulin-stimulated conditions showed a dose-dependent inhibition of phosphorylation, which varied with individual phosphoproteins. Two basal phosphoprotein bands (58 and 66 kDa in S3) showed a significant stimulation of phosphorylation at 100 microM Zn2+ with decreased stimulation at higher concentrations, which was absent by 5 mM Zn2+. A few Ca2+/calmodulin-stimulated phosphoproteins in P2-M and S3 showed biphasic behavior; inhibition at less than 100 microM Zn2+ and stimulation by millimolar concentrations of Zn2+ in the presence or absence of added Ca2+/calmodulin. The two major phosphoproteins in this group were identified as the alpha and beta subunits of CMK II. Using purified enzyme, Zn2+ was shown to have two direct effects on CMK II: an inhibition of Ca2+/calmodulin-stimulated autophosphorylation and substrate phosphorylation activity at low concentrations and the creation of a new Zn(2+)-stimulated, Ca2+/calmodulin-independent activity at concentrations of greater than 100 microM that produces a redistribution of activity biased toward autophosphorylation and an alpha subunit with an altered mobility on sodium dodecyl sulfate-containing gels.
Cytoskeleton-membrane-extracellular matrix interactions at the node of Ranvier were examined in both central and peripheral axons by combining three different methods for tissue preparation with three different electron microscopic techniques for imaging supramolecular structure. Conventional and three-dimensional high voltage electron microscopy of thin and semithick sections of tissues stained en bloc with ferric chloride revealed the presence of transcellular structures across the nodal gap traversing the paranodal glial-axonal junction. These structures penetrate both axonal and glial membranes and are further traced to the cortical axoplasm. This observation was verified by an examination of similar regions in rapidly-frozen freeze-substituted fresh axons. The filamentous nature of these structures, their focal attachment to the external true surface of the nodal and paranodal axolemma and their association with membrane particles were visualized in deep etch rotary-shadow replicas. At the node, both extracellular gap-crossing filaments and membrane-cytoskeletal linkers in the nodal axoplasm are joined to one of the prominent membrane particles of the nodal axolemma. At the paranodal axo-glial junction, the anchoring site of these membrane-cytoskeleton linkers are found on the linear arrays of 16 nm particles. Thus, cytoplasmic filaments and extracellular filaments or bridge structures are involved in the membrane-cytoskeletal interaction at the node and paranode. Some of these membrane particles are known to play a role in ionic conductances known to occur at this site. An additional role in cell adhesion or maintenance of the membrane specialization of this functionally important site of axolemma is now indicated.
Abstract Intracellular recordings were obtained from pituicytes in the neural lobe of the isolated rat pituitary. Like other glia, pituicytes lacked action potentials in response to depolarizing current injection, but they tended to have more positive resting membrane potentials and higher input resistances than astrocytes in other preparations. Dye-coupling typical of astrocytes was also demonstrated amongst pituicytes, and their morphologies were similar to those of pituicytes stained for glial fibrillary acidic protein. Action potentials, anode-break spikes or barium spikes were not observed in pituicytes, even under conditions that maximized the elicitation of Ca(2+)-dependent responses. This suggests that pituicytes either have no or a very low density of Ca(2+) channels or Ca(2+) currents that are too small to generate action potentials. Dynorphin A (1-13), a kappa-opioid agonist, produced long-lasting increases in pituicyte input resistance with no significant changes in resting membrane potential. Dynorphin's action was concentration-dependent and was blocked by the opioid antagonist naloxone. This is consistent with previous reports demonstrating kappa-opioid receptors on pituicytes in the neurohypophysis. The beta-adrenergic agonist isoproterenol (100 muM) reversed the increases in pituicyte input resistance produced by opioid application, with no significant changes in resting membrane potential. The fact that pituicytes responded to neurotransmitters suggests a functional link between pituicytes and neurosecretory nerve fibres.
Abstract Inhibin, a water soluble, non-steroidal glycoprotein hormone that inhibits follicle-stimulating hormone secretion, is produced by the gonads and several non-gonadal tissues (placenta, pituitary and brain). This study describes the presence of inhibin alpha-chain-immunoreactive cells in the adrenal cortex of intact adult male rats and the effects of hypophysectomy and adrenocorticotropin treatment on the expression of inhibin in that gland. In intact rats, the majority of the immunoreactive cells were found scattered in the zona glomerulosa and reticularis. The zona fasciculata contained only a few cells immunopositive for the inhibin alpha-chain. No immunoreactive cells were found in the medulla. Hypophysectomy resulted in a dramatic reduction in alpha-subunit immunoreactivity with only scattered cells observed in the zona glomerulosa and reticularis (0 to 2 cells/section). No immunoreactive cells were found in the zona fasciculata or the medulla. Following supraphysiologic adrenocorticotropin administration to hypophysectomized animals, the number of inhibin alpha-chain-immunoreactive cells significantly increased in each zone of the adrenal cortex. The most prominent changes were seen in the zona reticularis. Interestingly, in the adrenocorticotropin-treated animals scattered immunopositive cells were also present in the medulla. Our results suggest that inhibin-related peptide(s) exist within the adrenal gland and that the expression of these peptides is regulated by adrenocorticotropin. Inhibin-related peptide(s) may, therefore, play a paracrine and/or endocrine role in the adrenal function.
Parkinson's disease is one of the commonest neurodegenerative disorders in Western society. Although the neuropathological changes have been well documented, the underlying biochemical defect is unknown. Toxins may play a part in the aetiology of this disorder. It has been shown that 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) produces a Parkinson-like syndrome in both man and primates and 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridine (MPP+), a metabolite of MPTP, inhibits NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase (complex I) of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. We studied mitochondrial respiratory chain function in skeletal muscle from patients with Parkinson's disease because, like brain, it has a high dependence on oxidative metabolism. Our results show low activity in all complexes studied (I, II and IV). The implications of these findings are discussed in relation to the aetiology of Parkinson's disease.
Lactic acidosis has been proposed to be one factor promoting cell death following cerebral ischemia. We have previously demonstrated that cultured neurons and glial are killed by relatively brief (10 min) exposure to acidic solutions of pH less than 5 (Goldman et al., 1989). In the present series of experiments, we investigated the relationship between changes in intracellular pH (pHi) and cellular viability. pHi was measured using fluorescent pH probes and was manipulated by changing extracellular pH (pHe). Homeostatic mechanisms regulating pHi in neurons and glia were quickly overwhelmed: neither neurons nor glial cells were able to maintain baseline pHi when incubated at pHe below 6.8. Neuronal and glial death was a function of both the degree and the duration of intracellular acidification, such that the LD50 following timed exposure to HCl increased from pH, 3.5 for 10-min acid incubations to pHi 5.9 for 2-hr exposures and pHi 6.5 for 6-hr exposures. Replacement of HCl with lactic acid raised the LD50 to pHi 4.5 for 10-min acid exposures, but did not change the LD50 for longer exposures: pHi measurements concurrent with extracellular acidification suggested that the greater cytotoxicity of lactic acid relative to that of HCl was caused by the more rapid intracellular acidification associated with lactic acid. The onset of death after exposure to moderately acidic solutions was delayed in some cells, such that death of the entire cell population became evident only 48 hr after acid exposure. During this latency period, cellular viability indices and ATP levels fell in parallel.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The neuroepithelial cells of the mammalian neural tube are thought to give rise to all classes of differentiated neurons and macroglial cells in the adult CNS. In most cases, the regulation and timing of commitment of neuroepithelial cells to specific differentiative pathways are unknown. It has been proposed that in developing spinal cord, the macroglial cells--astrocytes and oligodendrocytes--arise either by the direct transformation of radial glial cells in the developing cord or, alternatively, by the differentiation of distinct precursor cells which migrate to presumptive white matter from the region of the central canal during development. In this study, the timing of oligodendrocyte differentiation in different levels of the spinal cord and the capacity of specific regions of the spinal cord to give rise to oligodendrocytes at various ages was tested in vitro. At embryonic day 14, all complete segments, as well as all ventral regions along the rostral-caudal axis of the spinal cord, have the capacity for oligodendrogenesis. By contrast, dorsal regions of the thoracic and lumbar spinal cord do not develop the capacity for oligodendrogenesis until later in development. The capacity of dorsal rat spinal cord to give rise to oligodendrocytes appears to be associated with the ventral-to-dorsal migration of oligodendrocyte precursors. These observations suggest that commitment to an oligodendrocyte differentiative pathway appears to occur in a distinct population of ventrally located glial precursors in the embryonic rat spinal cord.
The effects of the selective beta-adrenergic receptor agonist isoproterenol (ISO) were characterized in the CA1 region of the rat hippocampal slice preparation. As has been previously described, 500 nM ISO increased the amplitude of the evoked population spike response without having any effect upon field EPSP (fEPSP) responses. However, the increase in the population spike response was quite persistent and was not reversed by greater than 30 min of washout in the majority of the slices tested; we have termed this prolonged increase beta-adrenergic potentiation (BAP). As with the acute effect of ISO, BAP is confined to an increase in the population spike response and not the fEPSP. In input-output curves, this was clearly observed as a persistent leftward shift in the EPSP-population spike relationship. Similar long-term increases in the population spike could also be elicited by superfusion of the slices for 10 min with 20-25 microM norepinephrine (NE). Although both the acute and the long-term effects of ISO were blocked by pretreatment with timolol, a beta-adrenergic antagonist, the long-term effects were not reversed by superfusion with timolol following ISO treatment, demonstrating that the prolonged effects were not due to slow washout of ISO from the tissue. BAP was not blocked by pretreatment with 50 microM 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid, an NMDA receptor antagonist that blocks hippocampal long-term potentiation and the long-lasting changes in synaptic responses induced in the dentate gyrus by NE and ISO.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Nurse case managers are becoming more visible within the nursing profession. Practice settings range from acute care to independent companies developed for the purpose of case management. In each area, the development of a more autonomous nurse is emphasized. Neuroscience nurses are particularly suited for the role of case manager since their patients often require extensive rehabilitation and nursing care. As patients face earlier discharges, neuroscience case managers will be the link to vital resources in what is now an often fragmented system of care.
An intact skin with its acid mantle is the patient's first line of defense. Neuroscience nurses are the patient's second line of defense since they are responsible for assessment and treatment of the skin. Several risk factors make neuroscience patients susceptible to candidiasis. Skin properties, risk factors, assessment, complications and selected nursing and medical treatment of candidiasis are discussed in this article.
Instruments developed for use in any clinical setting must be tested for validity and reliability. The interrater reliability of neuroscience nurses' assessments for motor power using the Sunnybrook Health Science Centre Spinal Cord Testing record was determined using eleven patients with spinal cord lesions. Percentage of agreement between raters exceeded the predetermined acceptable level of 80%, and Kappa coefficient of agreement indicated excellent interrater agreement (K = .90, p less than .001). Study limitations are identified, and indications for further research discussed.
There have been numerous advances in the neurosciences in the last decade. These include discoveries in the area of neurogenetics, as well as advances in the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of neurologic diseases such as stroke, epilepsy and Parkinson's disease. These advances raise issues which have dramatic implications for nursing. In our society there is an increasing focus on technology. This focus, coupled with the reductionism of cellular and biochemical advances in the neurosciences, tends to take the focus away from the patient. Nursing care is critical in bridging the gap created by technological and biochemical discoveries.
1. Perforated patch recording was used to examine the influence of the calcium-dependent chloride current (iCl(Ca)) on Ca2+ action potentials in AtT-20 pituitary cells. The calculated chloride equilibrium potential (ECl) was adjusted by changing either intracellular or extracellular [Cl-]. Action potential duration varied as a function of ECl. When ECl was set at -21 mV, both spontaneous and evoked action potentials displayed a long plateau phase between -20 and -25 mV, which typically lasted for several seconds. Setting ECl to more negative potentials resulted in briefer action potentials; at an ECl of -52 mV, no plateau phase was evident. Spontaneous depolarization and action potential firing still occurred when ECl was negative to firing threshold, which indicates that the slow depolarizing wave that precedes the firing of spontaneous action potentials does not require activation of ICl(Ca). 2. In voltage clamp experiments the magnitude of ICl(Ca) diminished slowly during a prolonged depolarization, over a time course that coincided with action potential termination. 3. Niflumic acid (100 microM) blocked ICl(Ca) by 90% but had no effect on either K+ or Ca2+ currents. This concentration of niflumic acid eliminated the plateau phase, but did not prevent the firing, of Ca2+ action potentials. 4. Internal [Ca2+] was measured photometrically after loading cells with the Ca2+ indicator dye, Fura-2. Under voltage clamp conditions, concentrations of niflumic acid (30-100 microM) that blocked depolarization-evoked ICl(Ca) had little or no effect on simultaneously recorded Ca2+ transients. Perforated patch recording from Fura-loaded cells showed that action potentials were temporally associated with transient increases in intracellular [Ca2+]. Niflumic acid (30-100 microM) disrupted the rhythmic firing of spontaneous action potentials and associated intracellular Ca2+ transients. 5. Fluorescent measurements of Ca2+ transients were also made in cells unperturbed by patch recording, and were used as a measure of action potential duration in the absence of experimental alteration of internal [Cl-]. Spontaneous Ca2+ transients were of long duration (approximately 2 s), which suggests that intracellular [Cl-] is relatively high (40-50 mM) in these cells. The spontaneous Ca2+ transients were inhibited by niflumic acid. 6. Niflumic acid up to 100 microM, had neglible effects on either basal or stimulated (by 2 microM-(+/-)-isoprenaline) hormone secretion, as shown by radioimmunoassay of adrenocortotrophic hormone release.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. Granule cells were dissociated from mouse cerebellum and grown in vitro. Currents through single Ca2+ channels were recorded from the cell body with the patch clamp technique. 2. Voltage steps to 0 mV produced brief channel openings with a mean open time of approximately 0.5 ms. The single-channel conductance measured from the amplitude of the single-channel current with 90 mM-Ba2+ in the patch electrode was 22 pS. 3. The probability of Ca2+ channel opening increased with test potentials more positive than -30 mV, with half-activation near 0 mV, and followed the Boltzmann relation for the activation of whole-cell Ca2+ current. 4. Voltage steps to potentials more positive than 0 mV produced more channel activity at the beginning than at the end of the voltage step. The average of the single-channel currents decayed to a non-zero level with a time course similar to that of the whole-cell Ca2+ current. 5. The amplitude as well as the decay of the mean current measured during a test pulse to 0 mV was reduced as the holding potential was made more positive than approximately -90 mV. The change in the open channel probability with holding potential followed the Boltzmann relation which described the inactivation of the whole-cell Ca2+ current. 6. Ca2+ channel activity persisted for over several minutes after excising the patch from the cell body when intracellular cyclic AMP was increased. After patch excision, the number of functional channels decreased to a level where only one channel at a time was active. Ca2+ channel openings appeared as either short bursts at the beginning of the voltage step or long bursts that lasted throughout the pulse. 7. Exposing the cell to the dihydropyridine agonist +(S)-202-791 markedly increased the fraction of sweeps with long openings and produced a non-decaying mean current that was approximately 5 times larger than control. In a fraction of the sweeps, however, long openings occurred more frequently at the beginning than at the end of the voltage step and these produced a decaying mean current. 8. Shifting the holding potential to more positive potentials in the presence of the dihydropyridine agonist preferentially reduced the number of brief openings while sparing the long openings. The amplitude of the mean current was similar to that obtained from the more negative holding potential and there was no change in the fraction of sweeps with long openings that occurred at the beginning of the voltage pulse.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Due to the uncertainty of optimal timing for facial nerve repair after severe trauma, a study was designed to investigate facial nerve repair in micro-pigs by grafting at intervals after nerve transection ranging from 0 to 90 days. Following adequate time for regeneration, it was possible to electrically stimulate across the nerve graft in all animals. No significant difference existed between operative groups for electrophysiologic testing. Axon counts demonstrated a trend toward a lower regeneration rate in more delayed grafts. This trend and the ease of grafting with less scar and nerve stump resection suggest that the best results may be obtained with grafting as early as possible. Grafting at 21 days, the peak of neuron cell-body metabolic activity, did not produce better results. Since statistically significant differences do not exist between individual groups, grafting several months after trauma can be successful, if medically necessary.
The consensus binding site for the muscle regulatory factor myogenin was determined from an unbiased set of degenerate oligonucleotides using CASTing (cyclic amplification and selection of targets). Stretches of totally random sequence flanked by polymerase chain reaction priming sequences were mixed with purified myogenin or myotube nuclear extracts, DNA-protein complexes were immunoprecipitated with an antimyogenin antibody, and the DNA was amplified by polymerase chain reaction. Specific binding was obtained after four to six cycles of CASTing. The population of selected binding sites was then cloned, and a consensus was determined from sequencing individual isolates. Starting from a pool with 14 random bases, purified myogenin yielded a consensus binding site of AACAG[T/C]TGTT, while nuclear extracts retrieved the sequence TTGCACCTGTTNNTT from a pool containing 35 random bases. The latter sequence is consistent with that predicted from combining an E12/E47 half-site (N[not T]CAC) with the purified myogenin half-site ([T/C] TGTT). The presence of paired E boxes in many of the sequences isolated following CASTing with nuclear extracts proves that myogenin can bind cooperatively with other E-box-binding factors.
Synaptoneurosomes, a subcellular fraction of resealed presynaptic plus postsynaptic entities, contain polyribosomal aggregates and are capable of protein synthesis. Upon treatment with K(+), which has been shown to cause depolarization, we observed a rapid increase followed by a decrease in the size of polyribosomal complexes. These were shown by sucrose density gradient analysis to represent a shift of part of the total RNA into polyribosomes; accelerated incorporation of amino acids into polypeptides was also demonstrated. Calcium chelators in the medium reduce the steady-state size of polyribosomal complexes, but do not eliminate the response to depolarization, while intracellular calcium chelators have more profound effects, suggesting that there is mobilization of intracellular calcium stores. Thus depolarization-related changes may affect binding and release of translation initiation complexes with messenger RNA found near synaptic junctions.
Neonatal rat cortical astrocytes in primary culture synthesize and secrete nerve growth factor (NGF). Interleukin-1 beta(IL-1) and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) treatment of astrocytes increased NGF mRNA content by about 2-fold. The effect of these two factors was specific, because other growth factors, such as tumor necrosis factor-alpha, insulin-like growth factor-1, and epidermal growth factor, failed to change NGF mRNA content. The concentrations of IL-1 and bFGF causing half-maximal stimulation were 1 unit/ml and 1 ng/ml, respectively. The increase in NGF mRNA elicited by IL-1 and bFGF was maximal at 3 hr of incubation. In the presence of IL-1 this increase persisted for 36 hr, whereas in the presence of bFGF the initial increase in NGF mRNA was followed by a decrease to 50% of control levels after 24 hr of incubation. Readdition of bFGF after 24 hr of treatment gave a similar increase in NGF mRNA content, suggesting that the decrease at 24 hr was not due to receptor desensitization. The effect of IL-1 was reversible, because removal of IL-1 after 3 hr of incubation resulted in a decrease of NGF mRNA content to control levels by 6 hr, whereas a readdition of IL-1 at this time led to a 2-3-fold increase in NGF mRNA content after an additional 3 hr of treatment. This second increase in NGF mRNA was also maintained for several hours. The combined treatment of astrocytes with maximally effective doses of IL-1 and bFGF produced an additive increase in NGF mRNA content, suggesting that different mechanisms are operative. Treatment of astrocytes with cycloheximide increased (about 6-fold) NGF mRNA content, and this content failed to increase further with IL-1 or bFGF treatment. Experiments using actinomycin D indicated that IL-1 increased the stability of the NGF mRNA. bFGF treatment failed to change this parameter. Thus, IL-1 increases NGF mRNA content in astrocytes, at least in part, by stabilizing mRNA, whereas bFGF does not affect mRNA stability but may act at the level of NGF gene transcription.

Trophic control over the expression and membrane distribution of voltage-dependent ion channels is one of the principal organizing events underlying the maturation of excitable cells. The myelin sheath is a major structural determinant of regional ion channel topography in central axons, but the exact molecular signals that mediate local interactions between the oligodendrocyte and axolemma are not known. We have found that large caliber fibre pathways in the brain of the mutant mouse shiverer (shi, gene on chromosome 18), whose developmental fate of myelination is averted by deletion of five exons in the myelin basic protein gene, have a striking excess of sodium channels. As cytoplasmic membranes of shiverer oligodendroglia still adhere to axons, the evidence indicates that myelin basic protein or a myelin basic protein-dependent glial transmembrane signal associated with compact myelin formation, rather than a simple glial-axon contact inhibition or an intrinsic genetic program of neuronal differentiation, could be critical in downregulating sodium channel density in axons. Here we use the shiverer mutant to show that mature central nervous system projection neurons with large caliber unmyelinated fibres sustain functional excitability by increasing sodium channel density. This axon plasticity, triggered by the absence of a single glial protein, contributes to the unexpectedly mild degree of neurological impairment in the mutant brain without myelin, and may be a potentially inducible mechanism determining the recovery of function from dysmyelinating disease.
We studied the latencies, amplitudes, and scalp distributions of the early and late components of the event-related brain potential (ERP) in patients with progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) and matched normal controls. In separate choice reaction time (RT) tasks, the subjects pressed buttons to visual stimuli presented randomly at probabilities of either 20/80 or 50/50. Compared with normal controls, PSP patients had significantly reduced amplitudes and increased latencies for both the visual P2 and P300 components at all levels of probability. RTs and percent errors were significantly greater in the patients compared with controls. Neither the amplitude nor latency of the visual N1 component was significantly altered in these patients. There were no significant group differences in the distribution of electrical activity over the scalp for any of these ERP components, a finding which suggests that the neural structures responsible for generating these potentials were intact in these patients. The decreased ERP component amplitudes and increased ERP component latencies, combined with intact scalp distributions and increased RTs and error rates, present a pattern of results suggesting that the stimulus identification or categorization processes in these patients are significantly degraded.
In patients with Guillain-Barr syndrome (GBS) soluble interleukin-2 receptor (sIL-2R) levels were elevated compared with those of patients with other neurologic diseases (OND), and of healthy controls. Smaller increases in sIL-2R levels occurred in OND patients compared to healthy subjects. Monitoring of GBS patients clearly demonstrated that decreases in sIL-2R levels correlated with clinical recovery. Thus, T-cell activation may be relevant in the pathogenesis of GBS.
A single unilateral lesion, near the midline, may interrupt the pathways involved in vertical gaze just before and after they decussate, inducing an anatomically unilateral, but functionally bilateral, lesion. We report 11 patients with supranuclear vertical gaze palsies (two with conjugate upgaze palsy, four with combined up- and downgaze palsies, two with monocular elevation palsy, and three with vertical &quot;one-and-a-half&quot; syndrome) due to unilateral midbrain strokes.

A 65-year-old woman presented with a mild memory impairment, spatial disorientation, and poor task initiation. Progression was rapid over 3 months. She developed severe apathy, delusions, extrapyramidal features, and psychometrically quantified cognitive deterioration. Her brain showed many neocortical neuritic plaques and neurofibrillary tangles along with neocortical and brainstem Lewy bodies and temporal lobe spongiform vacuolization. This case is the most rapid deterioration documented of a patient with Alzheimer's disease and Lewy bodies.
The targeting of synaptophysin, a major synaptic vesicle protein, in transfected nonneuronal cells has important implications for synaptic vesicle biogenesis, but has proved controversial. We have analyzed four transfected cell types by differential centrifugation and velocity gradient sedimentation to determine whether synaptophysin is targeted to endosomes or to synaptic vesicle-like structures. Synaptophysin was recovered only in vesicles that sedimented more rapidly than synaptic vesicles. The synaptophysin-containing vesicles were labeled if a surface-labeled cell was warmed to 37 degrees C, comigrated with transferrin receptor-containing vesicles on velocity and density gradients, and could be completely immunoadsorbed by anti-LDL receptor tail antibodies. These data demonstrate that synaptophysin was targeted to the early endocytotic pathway in the transfected cells and are inconsistent with the suggestion that synaptophysin expression induces a novel population of vesicles. Targeting of synaptophysin to early endosomes implicates their role in synaptic vesicle biogenesis.
The early zebrafish brain contains a simple axon scaffold of longitudinal tracts connected by commissures. Neurons in the nucleus of the posterior commissure (nuc PC) project growth cones along a specific route in this axonal scaffold, raising the possibility that specific axons in the early scaffold guide nuc PC growth cones. We tested this possibility by analyzing the behavior of nuc PC growth cones in embryos in which a portion of the scaffold, normally traversed by nuc PC growth cones, was surgically prevented from forming. Under these conditions nuc PC growth cones extended along both normal and aberrant pathways. This suggests that specific axons do provide guidance cues, since their removal leads to errors. However, these cues are not obligatory, since some growth cones still followed normal pathways.
Microinjection of opioid agonists into the pre-optic-anterior hypothalamus (PO/AHA) was used to determine the identity of the opioid receptor subtype(s) involved in the stimulation of prolactin release. The mu agonist DAGO [(D-Ala2, NMe-Phe4, Gly-o15)-enkephalin] was the only opioid agonist to show dose-dependent release of prolactin, the lowest significant dose being 0.001 nmoles. Neither the specific delta agonist DPDPE [(D-Pen2, D-Pen5)-enkephalin] nor the specific kappa agonist U50,488H [(trans-3,4-dichloro-N-methyl-N-(2-(1-pyrrodinyl)-cyclohexyl)-benz ene acetamide] showed dose-dependent increase of prolactin secretion, or indeed any significant increase in prolactin secretion in the dose range 0.01-1 nmoles and 0.01-10 nmoles respectively. We suggest that mu (and not kappa or delta) opioid receptors in the PO/AHA are involved in the opioid stimulated release of prolactin in the conscious male rat.
The effect of dosing guinea pigs with spironolactone (100 mg/kg twice daily for 3 days) upon the sigma recognition site labelled with [3H]-DTG was investigated. Animals were dosed with 100 mg/kg spironolactone twice a day for 3 days. Spironolactone treatment caused a decrease in sigma radioligand binding in membranes prepared from liver and brain but not in adrenals or testes. Saturation analysis of [3H]-DTG radioligand binding in the brain indicated that the decrease in specifically bound [3H]-DTG binding was due to a reduction in receptor number with no change in affinity. This method for the selective depletion of brain and liver sigma recognition sites will provide a useful tool for exploring the functional significance of this site.
Differential patterns of developmental changes were observed between 10 and 150 days of age in numerical densities of ethanolic-phosphotungstic acid stained synapses in the molecular layer of cingulate cortex (area 29 c,d) and hippocampus (CA1)-dentate region in rat. Chronic caloric undernutrition commencing prenatally caused considerable reduction of synaptic densities up to 45 days of age in both the cortices, but showed opposite trends subsequently; the density attained was higher than control in the cingulate area, but lower than control in hippocampus-dentate area. Post-weaning rehabilitatory nutrition resulted in a reduced deviation from normal in the cingulate area but not in the hippocampus-dentate area.
The potent and selective AMPA receptor antagonist NBQX was tested for cytoprotective properties in an adult rat model of transient focal neocortical ischemia. Nineteen spontaneously hypertensive rats sustained 2 h of middle cerebral artery occlusion, followed by 22 h of recirculation. Ninety minutes following the onset of ischemia, at the time of, and 30 min following reperfusion, they received i.p. injections of either saline (n = 10) or 30 mg kg-1 of NBQX (n = 9). Saline-treated rats had a mean volume of neocortical infarction ( +/- s.d.) of 181 +/- 31 mm3, while NBQX-treated rats sustained significantly less damage, 125 +/- 19 mm3 (p less than 0.001). Regional cerebral blood flows during ischemia and reperfusion were not affected by the drug. We suggest that the AMPA receptor may play an important role in ischemic cerebral infarction.
The possibility of altering the course of Parkinson's disease by brain grafting is slowly becoming a reality through the efforts of many research groups worldwide. It has been shown that this procedure, as performed in high-level medical research centers, usually produces no permanent adverse effects and can effectively ameliorate parkinsonian signs in certain patients. This progress has served to reinforce our commitment to develop neural transplantation into an effective therapy to treat such a devastating neurodegenerative disease. We have summarized the most important events that have shaped the initial phase of this research. In the course of the last 4 years, considerable knowledge has been gained in the clinical neurosciences regarding the real potential of various brain grafting procedures in treating Parkinson's disease, their shortcomings, and their usefulness in carefully selected patients. There is still no consensus regarding the various fundamental aspects of human brain grafting in Parkinson's disease. Questions concerning surgical technique, candidate selection, the optimal brain regions for implantation, the optimal tissue for implantation, and the real usefulness of brain grafting must be addressed. The importance of the quality of adrenal medulla fragments for grafting, the requirement for immunosuppressors in fetal brain grafting, and the optimal fetal age and the amount of donor tissue for effective grafting are additional areas of concern. The potential of xenografting, preserved tissues, and genetically engineered cells for human brain grafting remain unanswered. The development of human neural transplantation is the responsibility and privilege of neurosurgery.
We assessed the effects of heptyl physostigmine, a new cholinesterase inhibitor, in a mouse tail-flick (TF) test, a mouse and rat passive avoidance test, a rat conditioned suppression-of-drinking (CSD) test, a rat Random Interval (RI) response rate test and a rat delayed matching-to-position (DMTP) test. In the TF test, a dose of 8.0 mg/kg of heptyl induced a significant antinociceptive effect that was in excess of 75% of the maximum possible effect 300 minutes after administration. In the mouse passive avoidance test, a dose of 3.0 mg/kg of heptyl fully reversed, and a dose of 1.0 mg/kg partially reversed, a scopolamine-induced (0.2 mg/kg) deficit. In the rat passive avoidance test, a dose of 8.0 mg/kg fully reversed a scopolamine-induced (0.2 mg/kg) deficit, while a dose of 4.0 mg/kg of heptyl was without effect. In the same experiment, a dose of 0.6 mg/kg of physostigmine partially reversed the scopolamine-induced deficit. In the CSD test, a dose of 8.0 mg/kg of heptyl fully reversed, and doses of 1.0 and 4.0 mg/kg of heptyl partially reversed, the deficit induced by scopolamine (0.4 mg/kg). In the RI response rate test, doses of 8.0 mg/kg and 0.6 mg/kg of physostigmine fully suppressed lever pressing for food rewards. Doses of 4.0 mg/kg of heptyl and below had no effect on lever-pressing rates. In the working memory test (DMTP), 4.0 mg/kg heptyl partially reversed the scopolamine-induced deficit (0.2 mg/kg) in the number of correct choices made, but did not affect the scopolamine-induced deficit in the number of trials completed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
To investigate temporal changes in behavior induced by moderate cold temperatures, rats performing on a multiple differential-reinforcement-of-low-rate (DRL) fixed-ratio (FR) schedule were exposed to ambient temperatures of 2, 8, 16, and 24 degrees C. DRL response rates markedly increased with decreasing cold temperatures, while FR response rates remained unchanged. In addition, as ambient temperatures decreased, the interresponse time (IRT) distribution of DRL responses shifted toward shorter times and short IRT bursts increased. Compared with cold effects, exposure to 38 degrees C heat induced decreases in both DRL and FR response rates which were associated with increases in long IRTs. Decreases in reinforcement frequency was associated only with the DRL schedule in cold, and with both DRL and FR schedules during heat exposures. The distinct effects of cold and heat on both DRL and FR responding suggest that the increases in DRL response rates and shifts in IRT distribution are unique to cold, and are not due to general effects of nonspecific thermal change in the ambient environment.
Neuronal gene expression is known to be modulated by functional activity. This modulation is thought to play a key role in determining the differentiation of developing neurons and regulating the operation of mature neurons. Here we describe a regulation of astroglial gene expression by neuronal activity. We report that intense neuronal activity (electrically induced seizures) in rat hippocampus leads to rapid and dramatic increases in mRNA for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), an astroglia-specific intermediate filament protein. GFAP mRNA levels increased at sites of stimulation as well as in areas that were synaptically activated by the resultant seizures. When seizures were induced repetitively for many days, levels of GFAP mRNA remained chronically elevated. However, GFAP mRNA returned to control levels within a few days after the cessation of stimulation. The coupling between astroglial gene expression and neuronal activity may be a mechanism through which neuronal activity modulates the function of supporting cells that are responsible for regulating the extracellular microenvironment of the brain.
Tetanic stimulation of the Schaffer collateral inputs into area CA1 of the hippocampus causes N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor activation, an effect that contributes to the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) in this region. The present studies demonstrate that LTP-inducing tetanic stimulation in rat hippocampal area CA1 elicited increased levels of cAMP. The elevation of cAMP was blocked by the NMDA receptor antagonist DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (APV). Bath application of NMDA also resulted in an increase in cAMP in CA1, an effect that was blocked by both APV and removal of extracellular Ca2+. These findings suggest that activation of NMDA receptors elicits a Ca(2+)-dependent increase in cAMP, and taken together with the data from tetanic stimulation, suggest that NMDA-receptor-mediated increases in cAMP could play a role in the induction of LTP in area CA1. One role for cAMP may be to increase Ca2+ influx through voltage-gated Ca2+ channels, as it was observed that application of either 8-bromo-cAMP or NMDA increased the fractional open time of high-threshold Ca2+ channels in CA1 pyramidal cells. Our results raise the possibility that a positive-feedback loop for Ca2+ influx in area CA1 exists. In this model, NMDA receptor-mediated Ca2+ influx leads to an enhancement of further Ca2+ influx via intermediate steps of increased cAMP and subsequent increased voltage-gated Ca2+ channel activity.
In preparations of synaptic terminals (synaptosomes) isolated from rat brain, the activity of phospholipase A2 (PLA2), a phospholipid hydrolase that serves a central function in signal transduction, was inhibited in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner by incubation with 60 mM K+ or with the Ca(2+)-selective ionophore ionomycin. Reversal by alkaline phosphatase treatment suggested that this inhibitory effect resulted from phosphorylation of a synaptosomal protein substrate. When lysed synaptosomes were incubated with Ca2+/calmodulin (CaM), purified Ca2+/CAM-dependent protein kinase II (Ca2+/CaM-dependent PK II) and ATP, PLA2 activity in lysates was nearly abolished within 10 min. This effect was accompanied by a marked decrease in the Vmax of the enzyme and little or no change in the Km. Furthermore, Ca2+/CaM with ATP but without exogenous Ca2+/CaM-dependent PK II partially inhibited PLA2 activity, and this effect was prevented by treating the lysates with a selective peptide inhibitor of Ca2+/CaM-dependent PK II. In contrast, incubation of intact synaptosomes with 4 beta-phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate or of lysed synaptosomes with purified protein kinase C had little or no effect on PLA2 activity. The results strongly suggest that the Ca(2+)-dependent inhibition of PLA2 activity observed in intact nerve endings was produced by activation of the multifunctional Ca2+/CaM-dependent PK II. A membrane-permeable adenylyl cyclase activator, forskolin, enhanced PLA2 activity in intact synaptosomes, and cAMP-dependent protein kinase potentiated PLA2 activity in lysed synaptosomes. Furthermore, another broad-spectrum protein kinase present in synaptic terminals, casein kinase II, also potentiated PLA2 activity in lysed synaptosomes. The effects of both protein kinases were associated with a decrease in Km and no change in Vmax. The results suggest that PLA2 activity in synaptic terminals is subject to bidirectional control by distinct signal transduction pathways. Moreover, mutually antagonistic effects of the Ca2+/CaM-dependent PK II and PLA2 pathways provide a possible molecular mechanism for bidirectional modulation of neurotransmitter release.

We investigated the temporal threshold for focal cerebral infarction in the spontaneously hypertensive rat. The right middle cerebral artery and common carotid artery were occluded for 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, or 24 hours, and all the animals were sacrificed 24 hours after the onset of ischemia. Cortical infarct volumes and edema volumes were quantified in serial frozen sections of hematoxylin and eosin-stained tissue using image analysis. Upon occlusion, blood flow in the core of the ischemic zone, measured with laser-Doppler flowmetry, fell to a mean +/- standard deviation of 21 +/- 7% of the preocclusion baseline value (n = 26). During the first hour of ischemia, blood flow in the densely ischemic zone rose to 27 +/- 8% of baseline (n = 25). Release of the middle cerebral artery and common carotid artery occlusions rapidly restored cortical blood flow to 213 +/- 83% of baseline (n = 21). Focal ischemia of 1 hour's duration caused little or no infarction, while ischemic intervals of 2 and 3 hours produced successively larger volumes of infarcted cortex. Ischemic intervals of 3-4 hours' duration followed by approximately 20 hours of recirculation yielded infarct volumes that were not significantly different from those after 24 hours of permanent focal ischemia. The results indicate that 3-4 hours of focal cerebral ischemia in this rat model is sufficient to attain maximal infarction and suggest that recirculation or pharmacological interventions after this time will provide little benefit.
This audit of clinical management confirmed the poor prognosis for patients (n = 80) aged over 60 years with a diagnosis of supratentorial glioma. The median survival time after diagnosis was 9 weeks following steroids and 7 weeks after biopsy and steroids. Cytoreductive surgery and radiotherapy improved median survival time by a maximum of 16 weeks, but there was significant morbidity in some patients undergoing craniotomy. Although 92% of the biopsied lesions were either glioblastoma or anaplastic astrocytoma, the median survival of these patients was similar to the 8% of patients confirmed as having intermediate grade astrocytoma. Patients presenting with minimal functional deficit (WHO grade I or II) had longer median survival times than those presenting in poor condition (WHO grade III or IV). In this series there was no relationship between management undertaken and clinical status of the patient. The 9% of the cohort that survived 1 year were treated in a variety of ways. This audit, together with results from other studies, suggests that a prospective clinical trial of different management regimes in elderly patients with supratentorial gliomas is needed. Since median survival time in the most intensively treated patients will be around 6 months, treatment evaluation must consider the quality of life provided.
The widely abused &quot;designer&quot; drug MDMA (3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine) has been shown to cause marked and long-lasting changes in brain serotonergic systems. The present study uses quantitative in vitro autoradiography of 3H-paroxetine labeled 5-HT uptake sites to assess the time-dependent effects of MDMA on 5-HT neurons in specific neuroanatomic loci. Following treatment with MDMA (20 mg/kg, b.i.d. for 4 days), marked decreases in 5-HT uptake sites were observed in a number of brain regions known to receive projections of 5-HT neurons. These regions included cerebral cortex, caudate nucleus, hippocampus, nucleus accumbens, olfactory tubercle, superior and inferior colliculi, geniculate nuclei, and most thalamic nuclei. In contrast, other areas such as the septal nuclei and some thalamic nuclei which also receive 5-HT projections were not substantially affected by this drug. In most regions, decreases in 5-HT uptake sites occurred within 24 hours of the last dose of MDMA and persisted at the 2 week time point. Some regions such as dorsal striatum exhibited a time-dependent reduction with greater reductions occurring at 2 weeks rather than immediately following the MDMA treatment regimen. The density of 5-HT uptake sites in other regions such as endopiriform nucleus and substantia nigra at the 2 week versus 18 hour time point indicated some degree of region-specific recovery. Regions which demonstrated no significant reduction in 5-HT uptake sites included the dorsal and median raphe nuclei, ventral tegmental area, central grey, interpeduncular nucleus, locus coerulus, pontine reticular formation and cerebellum. Likewise, regions containing 5-HT axons of passage (e.g., indusium griseum and lateral hypothalamus) appeared to be insensitive to the neurotoxic effects of MDMA on 5-HT neurons. Furthermore, the neurotoxic effects of MDMA showed specificity in that the catecholamine neurons labeled by 3H-mazindol were unaffected by the treatment regimen. These data indicate that the preferential degeneration of serotonergic neurons by MDMA is mediated primarily at 5-HT terminal regions, whereas regions containing 5-HT perikarya and axons of passage remain relatively unaffected. In addition, the observed time-dependent reductions and recovery of 5-HT uptake sites which were detected within 2 weeks of the treatment regimen in certain brain regions suggest region-specific differences in recovery of 5-HT systems from MDMA-induced lesion.
One goal of transplantation experiments involving damaged spinal cords is to reconstruct a functional innervation to muscles in the periphery. Embryonic spinal cord grafts have been shown to survive transplantation into adult spinal cord lacking motoneurones. Motoneurones from the graft appear to be able to innervate muscle tissue by being encouraged to grow across a bridge of peripheral nerve. Integration of grafted motoneurones appears to involve their migration from the graft into the host ventral horn, thus replacing depleted host neurones. These results suggest possible strategies of research that might lead to treatments of spinal cord injuries and disorders in which motoneurone loss occurs, such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, spinal muscular atrophies and poliomyelitis.
Grafting cells to the CNS is a useful approach to address fundamental and clinical issues in neurobiology. Recently, a hybrid technique - the genetic modification of cells followed by intracerebral implantation - has emerged, which may potentially enhance the power of CNS grafting. However, several methodological considerations need to be addressed to test the reliability of this new approach. Progress in the gene transfer-grafting technique has implications for expanding the range of issues and problems that may be addressed in both the basic science and clinical arenas.

Cerebral glucose utilization and blood flow were measured in rats using 2-deoxy-D-[14C]glucose and [14C]iodoantipyrine quantitative autoradiography, respectively, following treatment with the 5-HT1A receptor agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino) tetralin (8-OH-DPAT). In control and 8-OH-DPAT-treated animals blood flow and glucose use were similarly correlated, but the ratio was increased following 8-OH-DPAT treatment. Since 5-HT1A receptor activation is known to reduce neuronal 5-HT release, these results are consistent with a vasoconstrictor role for endogenous serotonin.
Ibotenic acid (IBO) or quisqualic acid (QUIS) was infused into the region of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis (NBm) in F344 rats in order to behaviorally and biochemically characterize the effects of these two neurotoxins. QUIS infusion resulted in a slightly higher depletion of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity in both anterior and posterior regions of cortex than did lesions caused by infusion of IBO. Both QUIS- and IBO-treated rats demonstrated significantly longer latencies than controls to find a hidden platform in a Morris water maze task. In addition, QUIS-treated rats performed significantly better than IBO-treated rats in the water maze. Analysis of swim speed and open field behavior did not show significant differences in general motor activity. Passive avoidance retention was unaffected by either neurotoxin. Cortical amino acid levels, [3H]neurotensin binding, dopamine, norepinephrine, and serotonin levels were unaffected by either neurotoxin. The levels of HVA and 5-HIAA in the IBO and QUIS groups were significantly reduced compared to controls, but were not significantly different from each other. Histological examination showed greater damage to non-NBm structures with IBO than with QUIS, including the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala and the reticular formation of the thalamus. The greater behavioral deficit seen after IBO lesions may be due to damage to other areas rather than differences in the extent of depletion of corticai ChAT, amino acids, catecholamines or indolamines.




Molecular biology has a strong impact on current research into drug and alcohol dependence. Spectacular recent results include the cloning of a cannabinoid receptor, nicotine receptors in the CNS and the targets of amphetamine and cocaine action, catecholamine transporters. Alcohol has been found to interact with the GABAA and NMDA (glutamate) receptors at concentrations reached with social alcohol use. The interactions of opiates and other drugs of abuse with the endogenous opioid peptides have been studied at several levels; it is a general finding that precursor gene transcription is suppressed. Although much less is known about the molecular consequences of chronic addictive drug usage, a functional deficit in opioid systems has been described. A general addiction mechanism may have similarities with memory storage mechanisms which are currently being studied with molecular probes.
Five deletion mutants of the D/E linker region of the troponin C central helix were tested for conformational and functional differences from wild-type troponin C. The mutants were in the region 87KEDAKGKSEEE97: dEDA, dKG, dKGK, dKEDAKGK, and dSEEE, designed to change the length of the central helix and the orientation of the Ca(2+)-binding domains relative to each other [Dobrowolski, Z., Xu, G.-Q., &amp; Hitchcock-DeGregori, S.E. (1991) J. Biol. Chem. 266, 5703-5710]. Previous work showed that all mutants except dSEEE are partially defective in one part of the Ca2+ switch or the other. All mutants undergo Ca(2+)-dependent conformational changes as detected by changes in electrophoretic mobility, alpha-helix content, and hydrophobic exposure. Deletions of the central helix do not extensively alter the thermal stability of troponin C, as determined by temperature-dependent loss of alpha-helix. There are differences among the mutants that do not correlate with function. All troponin C mutants show Ca(2+)-dependent interaction with troponin I and T in polyacrylamide gels. Troponin I-troponin C interaction was also analyzed by Ca(2+)-dependent increase in the monomer/excimer ratio of tropinin I and relief of inhibition of the actomyosin S1 ATPase. While all mutants retain basic function, dKGK, dKEDAKGK, and dEDA have altered interaction with troponin I in the absence of Ca2+. dSEEE differs in conformation from wild type, but it is normal in functional assays. This conserved region of the D/E linker is not required for interaction with troponin I in the presence or absence of urea.
Formation and maintenance of myelin sheaths in the peripheral nervous system are regulated by unknown molecular interactions that are thought to depend upon physical contact between Schwann cells and axons. However, recent studies describing axons surrounded by two concentric myelin internodes in the superior cervical ganglion (SCG) of normal rodents have demonstrated that the outer myelin internodes are maintained without physical contact with the axon. To determine whether the centrally enclosed axon has a trophic effect in maintaining these remote outer internodes, we have produced axonal degeneration by surgical or chemical means. The results indicate that maintenance of myelin internodes totally displaced from axonal contact depends neither upon the presence of the axon nor on diffusible axonal factors. A further implication of these studies is that myelin breakdown during Wallerian degeneration is regulated by a positive signal which originates in degenerating nerves, rather than solely by loss of axonal trophic substances.
The effects of quisqualate and kainate on synaptosomal inositol phosphate (InsP) labelling, 45Ca influx and intrasynaptosomal free calcium ([Ca2+]i) were investigated. Each agonist caused a concentration-dependent increase in both [Ca2+]i and InsP labelling: quisqualate, however, produced significantly larger responses in both parameters and at lower EC50 values. Neither quisqualate or kainate significantly affected 45Ca influx into synaptosomes, indicating that the observed increases in [Ca2+]i were due to mobilisation from intracellular stores. The concentration-dependent increases in [Ca2+]i promoted by quisqualate and kainate were monophasic, whereas the increases in InsP formation fitted well to a biphasic curve. The EC50 values suggest that both kainate and quisqualate initially mobilise calcium from inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (Ins 1,4,5-P3)-sensitive stores and that the resultant increases in [Ca2+]i will, above a certain threshold, promote further increases in InsP production by stimulation of Ca(2+)-dependent phospholipase C. When saturating concentrations of kainate and quisqualate were used in combination, the effects on both InsP labelling and [Ca2+]i were not additive but were slightly higher than those produced by kainate alone: combined administration of the two agonists had no effect on 45Ca influx. These results suggest that kainate acts as a partial agonist at the presynaptic quisqualate metabotropic glutamatergic receptor.
Spontaneous hippocampal EEG activity and evoked field potentials were investigated in intact rats and in animals with fetal hippocampal grafts. Pieces of hippocampal grafts, derived from 15- to 16-day-old fetuses, were used to prepare cell suspensions and grafted directly into the intact hippocampus. Control animals received suspension grafts of the cerebellum derived from fetuses of identical age. Host hippocampal electrical patterns were monitored with chronic single electrodes or with a 16-microelectrode probe from 7 to 10 months after grafting. In contrast to previously reported high survival rates of fetal grafts in studies with damage to the host brain prior to grafting, survival of both hippocampal (60%) and cerebellar grafts (20%) was very poor in the intact hippocampus. In animals with cerebellar transplants or without surviving grafted neurons the electrical activity of the host hippocampus was indistinguishable from normal controls. In rats with hippocampal grafts short duration, large amplitude EEG spikes (up to 10 mV) were recorded, predominantly during immobility. When the EEG spikes (putative interictal spikes) were of large amplitude and contained population spikes, test evoked responses delivered to the perforant path were suppressed after the spontaneous events. In contrast, evoked responses were facilitated by interictal spikes without population spikes. The threshold of electrically induced afterdischarges did not differ significantly between groups of intact rats and animals with or without hippocampal grafts. However, in three rats with hippocampal grafts the evoked afterdischarges were associated with behavioral seizures. In two of these rats spontaneously occurring seizures were also observed. Synaptophysin-immunoreactivity demonstrated growth of the host mossy fibers into the graft.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
HIGH levels of speech recognition have been achieved with a new sound processing strategy for multielectrode cochlear implants. A cochlear implant system consists of one or more implanted electrodes for direct electrical activation of the auditory nerve, an external speech processor that transforms a microphone input into stimuli for each electrode, and a transcutaneous (rf-link) or percutaneous (direct) connection between the processor and the electrodes. We report here the comparison of the new strategy and a standard clinical processor. The standard compressed analogue (CA) processor presented analogue waveforms simultaneously to all electrodes, whereas the new continuous interleaved sampling (CIS) strategy presented brief pulses to each electrode in a nonoverlapping sequence. Seven experienced implant users, selected for their excellent performance with the CA processor, participated as subjects. The new strategy produced large improvements in the scores of speech reception tests for all subjects. These results have important implications for the treatment of deafness and for minimal representations of speech at the auditory periphery.
The present report describes a method using column liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection for assaying concentrations of 3-O-methyldopa in urine and plasma. The technique combines a one-step sample preparation scheme with post-column flow-through electrodes in series, allowing adequate chromatographic separation of 3-O-methyldopa from other endogenous substances in urine. The validity of the method was confirmed by markedly decreased urinary 3-O-methyldopa levels after administration of an inhibitor of catechol-O-methyltransferase to rats, radioactivity in chromatographic fractions corresponding to 3-O-methyldopa in urine of rats undergoing infusion of [3H]-L-DOPA, and correlations between excretion rates of 3-O-methyldopa and catechols in humans. In healthy humans, urinary excretion of 3-O-methyldopa averaged 974 +/- 707 (S.D.) nmol per day, and plasma levels of 3-O-methyldopa averaged 89 +/- 32 nmol/l. The method should be useful in studies about the metabolism of endogenous and exogenous DOPA.
In the present study we have examined the expression of mineralocorticoid Type I and glucocorticoid Type II receptors in astrocyte glia maintained in culture for different periods of time. Cytosolic mineralocorticoid Type I receptors were labeled with [3H]aldosterone (ALDO) in the presence of a 500-fold molar excess of the potent Type II receptor ligand RU 28362. [3H]Dexamethasone (DEX) was used to label cytosolic Type II receptors. Both Type I and Type II receptor binding was saturable in astrocyte glia that had been maintained in culture for 20 and 30 days following final plating (i.e. 20- and 30-day-old cultures). Scatchard analysis of [3H]ALDO binding revealed a single class of Type I receptors, with dissociation constants (Kd) of 0.45 +/- 0.13 nM and 0.53 +/- 0.07 nM, respectively, in 20- and 30-day-old cultures. The number of Type I receptors in 30-day-old cultures was nearly half that found in 20-day-old cultures (22.06 vs 42.64 fmol/mg protein). Linear Scatchard plots were also obtained for [3H]DEX binding to cytosol prepared from 20- and 30-day-old cultures. There were no significant differences in the Kd or Bmax values for [3H]DEX binding in 20- or 30-day-old cultures, i.e. 2.06 +/- 0.15 nM and 247.36 +/- 18.16 fmol/mg protein for 20-day-old cells and 2.3 +/- 0.74 nM and 261.02 +/- 3.08 fmol/mg protein for 30-day-old cells. These Bmax values are more than double the Bmax value for [3H]DEX binding observed in our previous studies in 10-day-old astrocyte glial cultures. Switching cultured astrocyte glial from serum-supplemented to serum-free medium had no significant effects on the Kd values of Type I or Type II receptors in all the cultures tested. However, treatment with serum-free medium increased the number of Type I receptors in 30-day-old cultures to a level similar to that found in 20-day-old cultures. Taken together, these binding data suggest that Type I and Type II receptors are expressed differently in astrocyte glia as a function of time in culture.
A cDNA clone encoding the full coding region of polymorphic arylamine N-acetyltransferase was isolated from rabbit liver and expressed in Chinese hamster ovary cells. The expressed enzyme acetylated 2-aminofluorene, procainamide, sulfamethazine, and p-aminobenzoic acid at equivalent rates. N-Acetyltransferase activity was measured in 17 rabbits from an inbred colony which were classified into rapid, intermediate, and slow acetylators. The livers of the rapid and intermediate acetylators efficiently acetylated all four substrates, while the liver from the slow acetylator showed a low but significant activity with p-aminobenzoic acid. Immunoblot and Northern blot analyses of rabbit livers indicated that the differences in N-acetyltransferase activity were due to differences in N-acetyltransferase protein and mRNA content. Genomic clones of N-acetyltransferase were isolated from the rapid and slow acetylator rabbits. The nucleotide sequence of the gene from rapid acetylator rabbit was identical to that of the cDNA, while the sequence of the gene from slow acetylator rabbit was homologous, but not identical, to the cDNA sequence. Genomic Southern blot and polymerase chain reaction analyses of the genomic DNAs and cDNAs from the three types of acetylator indicated that the gene for polymorphic arylamine N-acetyltransferase is totally deleted in the slow acetylator rabbit, while the gene from slow acetylator rabbit is expressed in all rabbits and might encode another N-acetyltransferase. Thus the genetic mechanism of N-acetyltransferase polymorphism in rabbit liver is essentially different from that of human liver as demonstrated in this laboratory (Ohsako, S., and Deguchi, T. (1990) J. Biol. Chem. 265, 4630-4634; Deguchi, T., Mashimo, M., and Suzuki, T. (1990) J. Biol. Chem. 265, 12757-12760).
Although trophic factors and neuronal activity have been implicated in regulating functional synaptic circuits, the relationship of trophic interaction to impulse activity in synaptogenesis remains unclear. Using cultured hippocampus as a model system, we provide direct evidence that depolarization and impulse activity specifically increase nerve growth factor gene expression in neurons. Depolarizing stimuli, such as a high K+ concentration or the Na+ channel agonist veratridine, elicited a 3-fold increase of nerve growth factor mRNA levels in both explant and dissociated cultures. Blockade of depolarization by tetrodotoxin prevented the increase of neuronal nerve growth factor mRNA. Further, nerve growth factor gene expression was stimulated by picrotoxin, a gamma-aminobutyric acid antagonist frequently used to enhance hippocampal neuronal activity. Impulse regulation of trophic gene function may be relevant to developmental synaptogenesis and synaptic strengthening in learning and memory.
Neuromyotonia is a rare disorder of unknown cause in which hyperexcitability of peripheral motor nerves leads to incapacitating muscle twitching, cramps, and weakness. We investigated an antibody-mediated mechanism for neuromyotonia in a 24-year-old man with a 7-year history of severe disease unresponsive to pharmacological treatment. Two periods of plasma exchange each produced almost complete disappearance of symptoms for 2-3 weeks, and a highly significant decrease in recorded neuromyotonic discharges. Injection of the patient's plasma or purified IgG into mice significantly enhanced in-vitro resistance to d-tubocurarine at the neuromuscular junction of phrenic nerve-diaphragm preparations. This finding suggests that an increase in neurotransmitter release might result from an antibody-mediated reduction in the number of functional potassium channels that normally regulate nerve excitability. The demonstration of pathogenic IgG autoantibodies in acquired neuromyotonia suggests that immunosuppressive treatment may be helpful in severe cases.
Recent work, largely carried out in primate models of Parkinson's disease (PD), indicates that residual dopaminergic neurons in the midbrain and their axons to the nucleus accumbens and striatum can be stimulated to sprout collateral axons, reinnervate the striatum, and cause a behavioral recovery. We sought to create a partial lesion model of PD in the rat that would (i) mimic the pattern of cell loss in human patients in early stages of PD, and (ii) permit examination of experimental manipulations that promote sprouting of axons of the surviving dopaminergic cells in the midbrain. Rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesions of the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) were tested weekly for rotational asymmetry following administration of apomorphine or amphetamine. After completion of behavioral testing, the animals were sacrificed and the brains immunolabeled for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). Analysis of anatomical and behavioral data revealed a strong correlation between number of remaining TH-immunoreactive cells in the SNpc and the number of rotations induced by apomorphine. There was no significant correlation between number of remaining TH-immunoreactive nigral neurons and number of rotations induced by amphetamine. We also examined the relation between area in the denervated striatum with remaining TH-immunoreactive axons, number of TH-immunoreactive cells in the lesioned SNpc, and rotational behavior. As expected, there was a strong correlation between area innervated by TH-immunoreactive axons and number of remaining TH-immunoreactive neurons in the lesioned SNpc. Total extent of innervation was also correlated with number of apomorphine-induced rotations but not with number of amphetamine-induced rotations.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)




A non-lysosomal multicatalytic proteinase (MCP) is immunohistochemically visualized in Lewy bodies and loosely arranged globose tangles but not in the majority of compact neurofibrillary tangles in brains with cortical diffuse Lewy body disease. Virtually all Lewy bodies are immunoreactive to MCP, exhibiting various staining patterns where they are moderately diffuse, intense in the central core or intense in the peripheral rim. MCP may be involved in the formation of these inclusions.

Upon differential centrifugation of guinea pig intestine mucosal cells homogenate, fatty acyl-CoA:NADPH oxidoreductase (long chain alcohol forming) was found to be enriched in the light mitochondrial (L) fraction (sedimenting between 66,000 x g min and 500,000 x g min) which contained mainly mitochondria, lysosomes, and peroxisomes. Peroxisomes (marker enzymes: catalase and dihydroxyacetone phosphate acyltransferase) present in the L fraction were separated from other organelles in a Nycodenz density gradient centrifugation employing a vertical rotor. By comparing the distribution of acyl-CoA reductase with different marker enzymes in the gradient, it was concluded that this reductase is primarily localized in the microperoxisomes (microbodies). The topography of the membrane-bound enzyme in the isolated organelles was studied by checking its lability toward trypsin in the absence and presence of the detergent Triton X-100. The results suggested that acyl-CoA reductase is localized on the outer surface (cytosolic side) of microperoxisomal membrane.
Multi-infarct dementia (MID) characteristically presents with an acute event followed by a stepwise and fluctuating downhill course. Progression is generally considered the consequence of recurrent stroke (Hachinski, 1983): the mainstay of treatment, therefore, is the prevention of further ischemic events.
Recent reports indicate that in male rats dehydration, LiCl, and cholecystokinin (CCK) each stimulate pituitary oxytocin (OT) secretion and also decrease gastric emptying and motility. In contrast, the present experiments demonstrate that nipple attachment and sucking by pups, a well-known stimulus for neurohypophysial secretion of OT, did not decrease gastric motility in lactating rats. Moreover, systemic injection of naloxone, which is known to potentiate the inhibitory effects of LiCl and CCK on gastric motility in male rats, had no effect on gastric motility of lactating rats while nursing. These data indicate that pituitary OT secretion from magnocellular neurons is not invariably linked to decreased gastric motility in rats. As such, our results support previous findings that inhibition of gastric motility is not secondary to the pituitary secretion of OT but allow a possible role for parvocellular oxytocinergic neurons that project from the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus to the brain stem in the control of gastric function.
Recent advances in neuroscience and psychopharmacology have been tremendously effective in expanding our ability to help our patients. However, these techniques too are limited and in our excitement at the advance of science and under the increasing pressures for simple answers and rapid treatment we must be careful not to ignore our patients' intrapsychic lives. Failing to consider the psychodynamic implications of the chemical imbalance and of prescribing medications sets the stage for the transference to be repetitively acted out around medication issues. By taking a psychodynamically informed approach to the treatment of patients the psychiatrist is prepared to provide comprehensive care and make better decisions regarding the appropriateness or timing of medications and may avoid participating in the patients' repetitions.
The effects of a competitive, N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, D(-)E-4-(3-phosphonoprop-2-enyl)-piperazine-2-carboxylic acid (D-CPPene), on the volume of ischemic brain damage was assessed by quantitative histological study in 35 chloralose-anesthetized cats. Focal cerebral ischemia was produced by permanent occlusion of one middle cerebral artery and the animals were killed by transcardiac perfusion fixation 6 hours later. Pretreatment with D-CPPene (1.5, 4.5, or 15 mg/kg, administered intravenously 15 minutes prior to occlusion, with subsequent drug infusions to maintain a plateau in the plasma drug concentrations) effected dose-dependent reductions in the volume of ischemic brain damage. At the highest dose studied (15 mg/kg, plus an infusion of 170 micrograms/kg/min), D-CPPene reduced the volume of ischemic damage in the cerebral cortex by more than 75% compared to vehicle-treated control animals. The plasma concentration of D-CPPene, which is associated with a half maximal reduction in the volume of ischemic damage, was estimated to be 24 micrograms/ml during the initial 120 minutes after the middle cerebral artery occlusion. Treatment with D-CPPene (15 mg/kg, plus an infusion of 170 micrograms/kg/min) initiated 1 hour after occlusion reduced the volume of ischemic brain damage in the cerebral cortex by 30%, but this response did not achieve statistical significance. Precise definition of dose dependency for the anti-ischemic effects of NMDA antagonists and the therapeutic time window are influenced greatly by brain pharmacokinetics of the agents.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Cognitive neuropsychology is a young branch of neuroscience whose ancestral influences include a rich pool of experimental (eg, cognitive, psychology), theoretical (eg, epistemology), and clinical (eg, neurology, neuropsychology) disciplines. An essential principle of cognitive neuropsychology is that disorders of higher cortical functions can be understood in terms of breakdowns of one or more information-processing modules. Each module is the most basic element of intelligence that can be defined based on current knowledge. This approach is a refinement of-not a fundamental departure from-the 19th-century &quot;localizationist&quot; view of language disorders. Wernicke's aphasia, for example, classical attributed to a single cognitive deficit (loss of word sounds), is shown in this review to require damage to multiple distinct information-processing modules. Cognitive neuropsychology provides the tools for the type of fine-grained analyses of behavior that are needed to capitalize on recent advances in neuroimaging techniques, including the development of more sophisticated models of brain-behavior relationships.
Occasionally, large benign intracranial tumours which have existed for many years present as a relatively acute problem. The mechanisms underlying the sudden change are sometimes unclear but infarction of the benign tumour, subsequent cerebral oedema and an increase in intracranial pressure have been reported. The authors describe such a case of focal infarction in a meningioma with a precise chronology of the clinical, radiological and pathologic findings.
This study was aimed at testing the effects of a reversible inactivation of the hippocampal formation on long-term and short-term acquisition of spatial information. Rats chronically equipped with either bilateral cannulae into the ventral hippocampus or a single cannula into the medial septum had to locate, in a circular platform with 18 holes on the periphery, the unique hole leading to a hidden shelter in order to avoid bright light. In Expt. 1, following 16 days of training (1 trial/day, 24 h ITI) without physical intervention, the location of the correct hole was changed on both Days 17 and 23, and the rats were either sham-injected or injected with lidocaine. Both hippocampally and septally lidocaine-injected rats relearned the new location at a rate similar to corresponding sham-injected animals. In Expt. 2, a massed-trial version of the task was used, in which the rats had to learn a new hole location on each daily session (3 trials, ITI = 1 min). Animals were sham-injected or lidocaine-injected on alternate sessions. While sham-injected rats improved in orientational accuracy over successive trials, both hippocampally and septally lidocaine-injected rats failed to display any between-trial improvement. The impairment displayed by lidocaine-injected rats when their hippocampus was inactivated confirms the role of the hippocampus in short-term spatial memory (Expt. 2). In contrast, short-lasting inactivation of the hippocampus did not prevent long-term spatial learning (Expt. 1). These results suggest that the hippocampus could process information 'off-line' in the delay between temporally discontiguous learning trials, and show that short-term and long-term spatial learning rely on distinct neurobiological mechanisms.
Bloedel and associates recently claimed to have established conditioned eyeblink responses in the acute decerebrate, decerebellate rabbit. Their training procedure was extreme massed practice (mean intertrial interval of 9 s) and they used an idiosyncratic definition of the conditioned response (10% or more of the unconditioned response amplitude). They did not measure or control the excitability of their preparations and did not run any separate control groups for alpha responses, alpha conditioning or pseudoconditioning. Using normal animals we compared their training procedure with procedures standard in the field and analyzed the consequences of their scoring procedure. Our group trained at a 30-s intertrial interval (ITI) showed clear learning in the training session. In marked contrast, 3 groups trained at a 9-s ITI developed no conditioned responses. We also found that the method of scoring used by Bloedel and associates counts many spontaneous responses as conditioned responses (CRs) if unconditioned response (UR) amplitudes are low, excludes genuine CRs if UR amplitudes are high and does not control for the occurrence of spontaneous responses. It must therefore be concluded that the eyeblink responses to tone reported by Bloedel and associates to occur in the decerebrate, decerebellate rabbit are not associative CRs as they develop in the normal animal.
1. Using a grease-gap technique, we studied the action of histamine on the d.c. potential recorded between the internal carotid nerve and the main body of the isolated superior cervical ganglion of the rat. 2. A small, slow depolarization was evoked by 10-300 microM histamine. This response was not reduced by lowering the calcium concentration in the superfusing medium (from 2.5 to 0.1 mM), or by superfusing tetrodotoxin, N-methylatropine, or propranolol (all at 1 microM). 3. Mepyramine (10 nM) antagonized this depolarization, but cimetidine (10 microM), metiamide (30 microM), burimamide (10 microM) and impromidine (1 microM) did not. Two other agonists also evoked a mepyramine-sensitive slow depolarization. The rank order of potencies was histamine greater than N alpha-methyl-histamine greater than 2-methyl-histamine. 4. At concentrations greater than 1 mM, histamine also evoked a larger, faster depolarization. This response was undiminished by reducing the calcium concentration of the medium to 0.1 mM or by adding 1 microM tetrodotoxin. The rank order of potency for the agonists was N alpha-methyl-histamine greater than histamine approximately 2-methyl-histamine. The histamine-induced fast response was not antagonized by any of the above-mentioned antagonists. It was slightly reduced by (+)-tubocurarine (100 microM) and N-methylbicuculline (100 microM) but such effects were not consistent with the blockade of nicotinic or GABAA receptor-mediated responses. 5. It was concluded that histamine depolarized the isolated superior cervical ganglion of the rat by activating H1 receptors. Relatively high concentrations of histamine also evoked a fast depolarization of this preparation, but this did not appear to be mediated by H1, H2 or H3 receptors.
1. The actions of two calcium channel antagonists, the N-channel blocker omega-conotoxin GVIA (omega-CgTx) and the L-channel antagonist nisoldipine, on synaptic transmission were investigated in the hippocampus and nucleus accumbens of the rat in vitro. 2. omega-CgTx (100 nM for 10 min) produced a marked and irreversible reduction of focally evoked population spikes and intracellularly recorded excitatory postsynaptic potentials (e.p.s.ps) in the nucleus accumbens, which could not be overcome by increasing the stimulus strength. 3. Nisoldipine (10 microM for 10 min) had no effect on population spikes in the nucleus accumbens or the CA1 of the hippocampus. 4. In the hippocampus, population spikes were not irreversibly reduced by omega-CgTx (100 nM for 10 min) but rather, multiple population spikes were produced along with spontaneous synchronous discharges. This indicated that inhibitory synaptic transmission was being preferentially reduced. 5. Intracellular recordings demonstrated that omega-CgTx powerfully reduced inhibitory synaptic transmission in an irreversible manner and that excitatory transmission was also reduced but to a lesser extent. Unlike excitatory transmission in the nucleus accumbens and inhibitory transmission in the hippocampus, increasing the stimulus strength overcame the reduction of hippocampal excitatory transmission. 6. It is concluded that omega-CgTx-sensitive calcium channels are involved in the calcium entry that precedes the synaptic transmission in all these synapses. The apparent lower sensitivity of the hippocampal excitatory fibres to omega-CgTx may indicate that calcium entry that promotes transmitter release at central synapses may be mediated by pharmacologically distinct calcium channels.
In this paper we consider several issues about single-patient versus syndrome-based research in response to E. Zurif, D. Swinney, and J. A. Fodor's (1991, Brain and Cognition, 16, 198-210) criticism of A. Caramazza and W. Badecker (1989, Brain and Cognition, 10, 256-295). We argue that these authors have failed to provide convincing arguments in favor of syndrome-based research. In particular, we show that the specific example--a study by D. Swinney, E. Zurif, and J. Nicol (1989, Journal of Cognitive Neurosciences, 1, 25-37)--given by these authors as a demonstration of the usefulness of syndrome-based research to inform theories of normal language processing does not in fact serve this purpose.
A right hemisphere advantage was observed in a previous study of 4- to 9-month old infants presented with a face discrimination task (de Schonen &amp; Mathivet, 1990). The present study was designed to investigate pattern processing by the two hemispheres and the interhemispheric communication of this processing. Infants aged 4 to 9 months were tested with divided visual field presentations in one or two discrimination tasks. Under both task conditions, the infants had to discriminate between two patterns in which only two local components differed. Under one condition the components of the patterns were arranged so as to produce a face-like pattern. Under the other condition the same components were arranged into arbitrary patterns that were not &quot;good form&quot; patterns. No performance asymmetry was observed with the arbitrary patterns; whereas, a right hemisphere (RH) disadvantage was observed with the face-like patterns compared with both the RH performances on the arbitary patterns and the left hemisphere (LH) performances on the face-like patterns. These results show that the RH advantage for individual face recognition is not due to a general immaturity or inability of the LH in pattern processing at this period of development, nor to a more specific inability in a local mode of pattern processing. On the other hand, the RH does not completely lack local processing capacity, but is at a disadvantage when this local mode of processing has to be used with face-like (or good form) patterns. The interhemispheric communication of visual discrimination learning was tested by measuring learning transfer between the visual fields. Contrary to de Schonen and Bry's study (1987) on faceness recognition, no data in favor of interhemispheric communication were recorded in the present study.
A morphological study was carried out on the skeletal muscle of a mutant Japanese quail with acid maltase deficiency (AMD). The affected quails began to experience difficulty in lifting their wings about 6 weeks after hatching. Four weeks after hatching, before symptoms appeared, alpha-1, 4-glucosidase activity in skeletal muscle was decreased to less than 10% of the control level, and muscle fibers possessed many vacuoles containing periodic acid Schiff (PAS) positive material which was digested by diastase, and showed high acid phosphatase activity. Although both red and white muscles were involved, the pectoralis superficialis (PS, white) muscle was preferentially affected, showing intracytoplasmic vacuoles, variation in fiber size and fatty tissue replacement relatively early in the disease. The quails' disease closely resembled human late onset AMD in the slow clinical course, the presence of residual acid alpha-glucosidase activity and the muscle pathology. This mutant quail seems a useful model for elucidation of the muscle degeneration in human AMD (glycogen storage disease type 2).
Although etiological influences in developmental language impairment (dysphasia) are not well defined, a significant increase of family aggregation for the disorder has been reported. We report data from a large cohort of language-impaired (LI) children participating in the San Diego longitudinal study in which we examined whether children with or without positive family histories show different phenotypic profiles. Due to the longitudinal design of the study, questions pertaining to change over time are also addressed. Second, a subgroup of the most impaired children were reevaluated to obtain additional information pertaining to family history and phenotypic outcome. Approximately 70% of the LI children met criteria for inclusion as family history positive, with fathers reporting a history of language or learning problems one and a half to two times as frequently as mothers. LI children with or without a positive family history were not significantly different on language skills or IQ. However, subjects having a positive family history for developmental language/learning problems were significantly lower in socioeconomic status and were rated by parents and teachers as having more attention-related behavior problems than their family history negative counterparts. Similarly, family history positive LI children performed more poorly on standardized academic tests as well as on tests of auditory processing and attention.

The use of a new and very sensitive immunohistochemical method, combined with intracerebral injections of colchicine, has allowed us to show that a number of nerve cell bodies immunoreactive for Met-enkephalin are present in several mesencephalic nuclei of the rat, including the different subdivisions of the substantia nigra (SN). The existence of numerous neuronal somata of this kind in the medial part of the SN pars compacta and in the lateral half of the pars reticulata is rather new. The latter has been ascertained by demonstrating a perikaryal immunoreactivity for synenkephalin in the same regions of the SN. In addition, by in situ hybridization, we have shown that neuronal cell bodies expressing the preproenkephalin A (PPA) gene are also present in the same regions of the SN. However, the fact that a strong radioautographic reaction was found only in rats which received an intranigral injection of 6-hydroxydopamine indicates that these neurons are probably not dopaminergic and that an induction of the PPA gene occurs in these animals.
Exposure to toluene causes a marked hearing loss in rats, and this effect has been observed in some human solvent abusers. The issue of whether toluene or one of its metabolites is responsible for this effect has not been examined. To attempt to resolve this issue, we manipulated the metabolism, and thus the circulating levels, of toluene as follows. Two groups of rats were exposed to phenobarbital (PB) in their drinking water (0.1%) for seven days to induce detoxifying liver enzymes; two other groups had access to PB-free water. Then half of the rats exposed to PB or water were exposed to filtered air or a concentration of toluene expected to cause hearing loss. Levels of toluene in blood were markedly reduced by the PB and the excretion of hippuric acid was increased. All rats were tested for auditory sensitivity by brainstem auditory-evoked response (BAER) audiometry using a 16-kHz tone pip. The rats exposed to toluene alone showed a marked reduction in the integrated BAER waveform, indicative of the expected hearing deficit. None of the other treated rats showed any deviation from controls (i.e., water and air). These results provide strong evidence that toluene itself is responsible for the auditory dysfunction. Toluene also caused the rats to increase their fluid consumption and urine output; these effects were not altered by PB. Identification of toluene as the proximal ototoxicant should facilitate the search for the mechanism of this effect.
The levels of tyrosine hydroxylase and galanin mRNA were measured by in situ hybridization histochemistry in the rat locus coeruleus after repeated (21 days) administration of desmethylimipramine (10 mg/kg/day), of reserpine (0.25 mg/kg/day), of coadministered desmethylimipramine and reserpine, or of vehicle. Reserpine administration resulted in increased levels of both tyrosine hydroxylase and galanin mRNAs in locus coeruleus neurons as compared to vehicle-treated controls. Administration of desmethylimipramine alone failed to alter either the tyrosine hydroxylase or galanin mRNA. However, coadministration of desmethylimipramine with reserpine blocked the elevation in tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA induced by reserpine alone.
Calcium efflux from bovine chromaffin cells in tissue culture has been examined after loading them with small amounts of Ca2+ by brief depolarization in media containing 20 mumol/l to 1 mmol/l Ca2+ and 45Ca2+ in trace amounts. In the presence of normal external Na+ and Ca2+ concentrations cells depolarized in media containing up to 200 mumol/l Ca2+ exported nearly 100% of their accumulated Ca2+ loads within 10 min and 20% within the first 5 s. In the absence of external Na+ and Ca2+ the proportion of a small (i.e., depolarization in 20 mumol/l calcium) Ca2+ load exported at any time point in the range to 10 min was approximately two thirds of the total efflux measured in their presence indicating that under these conditions the external Na+/Ca(2+)-dependent and Na+/Ca(2+)-independent mechanisms both contribute significantly to the export of calcium. At higher cellular loads of calcium (i.e., depolarization in 200 mumol/l to 1 mmol/l calcium) the Na+/Ca(2+)-dependent mechanism exported a progressively greater proportion of the accumulated Ca2+. Both sodium and calcium alone promoted a component of Ca2+ efflux; Ca2+ (i.e. calcium-calcium exchange) was as effective as Na+ (i.e. sodium-calcium exchange). The Km for Na+ stimulation of Ca(2+)-efflux (KNa) was approximately 65 mM. Increased external Mg2+ (from 1.2 to 10 mmol/l) increased the apparent KNa to 90 mM.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The coding theory of rotations (by inspecting closely their relation to flows) and the continued fractions algorithm (by considering even two-coloring of the integers with a given proportion of, say, blue and red) are revisited. Then, even n-coloring of the integers is defined. This allows one to code rotations on the (n-1)-torus by considering linear flows on the n-torus and yields a simple geometric approach to renormalization on tori by first return maps on the coding regions.
The cardiac extracellular matrix, composed predominantly of collagenous fibers, forms a stress-tolerant network that facilitates the distribution of forces generated in the heart and provides for proper alignment of cardiac myocytes. Although considerable information exists regarding the morphological organization of the heart extracellular matrix, little is known about the regulation of the synthesis and accumulation of extracellular matrix components. A potentially significant factor in the cardiovascular system is mechanical stimulation including changes in physical tension and pressure. We recently have developed an in vitro model system to elucidate the effects of mechanical stretch on isolated populations of heart cells. In the present study, we have used biochemical and molecular biological techniques to analyze changes in collagen synthesis by cardiac fibroblasts in response to mechanical stretch. These studies show that the ratio of collagen type III to collagen type I increases in mechanically stretched cells. They also show that type III collagen mRNA levels are increased in response to cyclic mechanical stretch for durations as short as 12 hours. Type I collagen mRNA levels were not found to change under the stretch conditions used in this study. Our results emphasize the potential regulatory role of mechanical stimulation in the expression of specific genes in the heart and support previous studies indicating this to be an intriguing in vitro model of cardiac hypertrophy.
We have studied developmental expression of zebrafish engrailed-like (Eng) antigens. Many cell types are reproducibly labeled by two antibodies that recognize the Eng homeodomain, but other cells are labeled by only one or the other, suggesting a hitherto unrecognized complexity of Eng proteins. Expression patterns vary remarkably according to cell type and location. In the undifferentiated primordia of the brain and of each myotome, expression by a stripe of cells spatially subdivides the primordium at a location where a morphological boundary forms later, suggesting expression may be required for development of the boundaries. Supporting this hypothesis, trunk myotomal cells that express Eng are absent in spt-1 mutant embryos, just where the myotomal boundaries fail to form. Another pattern is present in rhombomeres, pharyngeal arches, and the pectoral girdle. In each of these cases, cells (neuron, muscle, cartilage) generating a subset of a series of repeated elements selectively express Eng. These subsets then form specialized derivatives, suggesting Eng homeoproteins are involved in determining the specializations. Epidermal expression is present in the ventral half of the pectoral fin rudiment, precisely 'compartmentalizing' the fin. Neuronal cells at a certain dorsoventral level in each hindbrain and spinal cord segment selectively express Eng, suggesting segmental control of neuronal identity. Specific expression patterns are observed in taste buds, otic vesicles and teeth. Thus we propose that eng genes function in diverse cell types in zebrafish, but play selector roles that can be classified into a few basic types.
Poly (A+ mRNA species, isolated from 100-day-old rat brain, were analysed by in vitro translation and two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. The synthesis of selected protein species was compared to actin on the basis of [35S]methionine incorporation. The estimated molar abundance of translation products varied from abundant species at 0.78% of the total to several are species, detectable below the 0.02% level. If these synthesis rates reflect the abundance of particular mRNAs in the mixture, this sensitivity limit compares well with accepted values using differential cDNA screening techniques. This analysis provides evidence that in vitro translation methodology is able to detect rarer mRNA species than is usually expected--these include similar abundance classes to library screening procedures.
In manganese-containing medium, tissue cells can spread on albumin and other substrata typically nonadhesive for cells in calcium/magnesium-containing medium. To learn whether integrin receptors play a role in Mn-dependent adhesion, we tested the effects of RGD peptides and polyclonal anti-fibronectin receptor antibodies on BHK cell spreading on fibronectin and albumin-coated substrata. In Ca/Mg-containing medium on fibronectin substrata, the RGD-related peptides GRG-DSP and GRGDS but not RGDS inhibited cell spreading. In Mn-containing medium, spreading on albumin was inhibited by GRGDSP and GRGDS and also by RGDS. GRGESP, on the other hand, did not inhibit cell spreading under any condition tested. Antibodies directed against fibronectin receptors also inhibited Mn-dependent cell spreading on albumin substrata, but higher levels of antibody were required than were necessary to inhibit Ca/Mg-dependent spreading on fibronectin. On the basis of these results, we suggest that integrin receptors, but probably not fibronectin receptors, mediate Mn-dependent BHK cell spreading on albumin.
Regional cerebral blood flow (CBF) has been measured in eight anaesthetized, exteriorized, fetal sheep between 58 and 62 days gestation; four were controls, four were hypercapnic (PaCO2 = 78 +/- 5 mmHg, mean +/- S.E.M.). Blood flow values were calculated from quantitative autoradiography following the infusion of [14C]iodoantipyrine into a cannulated fetal placental vein, for the cerebellum, medulla, and five layers of the developing neocortex: cortical plate (CP), subplate zone (SP), intermediate zone (IZ), subventricular zone (SV), and the ventricular zone (VZ). The highest control CBF rates were recorded in the cortical plate (49.3 +/- 7.4 ml min-1 (100 g)-1, mean +/- S.E.M., posterior cortex) and in the ventricular zone (40.5 +/- 4.8, posterior cortex), which at this stage of development are the regions of greatest cell density. The lowest CBF rates were recorded in the subplate zone (23.8 +/- 6.8, anterior cortex) and in the intermediate zone (23.4 +/- 7.6, anterior cortex), which are the regions of lowest cell density. Experimentally induced hypercapnia increased CBF in all brain regions and enhanced the regional pattern of flow. The results provide evidence that CBF in the immature fetal sheep brain (at 58-62 days gestation) is heterogeneous under both control and hypercapnic conditions (especially in the neocortex). Blood vessels of the fetal sheep brain at this early stage of development are clearly responsive to CO2.
Micturition is the process whereby urine is collected in the bladder until such time as it is convenient to void. The two phases of the cycle are controlled by several reflexes but the act of voiding is usually initiated voluntarily. To date, pharmacological research on the central control of micturition has concentrated on influences of the brain stem and spinal cord, and in particular of the locus coeruleus, the &quot;pontine micturition reflex centre&quot;. Studies have shown that spontaneous bladder motility is affected by agents acting upon receptors for acetylcholine, noradrenaline, dopamine, opioids, GABA and glutamate. It is now necessary to extend these studies to conscious animals so that reflex activity is not affected by anaesthesia and the effects of drugs on the collecting and emptying phases can be examined.

A case of Obsessive Compulsive Disorder with no contributory or past history who developed delusional mania while on clomipramine is presented. The manic symptoms resolved after discontinuation of drug. The link between serotonin and mania is speculated upon. The need to look for manic symptoms in patients on clomipramine is stressed.
1. The most important recent research leading to future developments in the understanding and treatment of chronic depression are the clinical and epidemiological approaches. 2. The central role of 5HT in depression is emphasized and it seems likely that the maintenance of adequate 5HT neurotransmission is required for the treatment of chronic depression. 3. The role of organic changes in chronic depression must be further explored. 4. The development of novel antidepressants, particularly prophylactic ones, is the most likely way to produce major clinical benefits for this disabled group.
Diagnosis and management of the progressive myoclonus epilepsies (PMEs) provides a challenge to the clinician and neurophysiologist. Over 15 specific disorders can cause the PME syndrome; all are rare, and individual physicians are unlikely to have experience in all of them. Accurate diagnosis is essential to provide a prognosis, optimal therapy, and genetic counseling. The major causes are PME of the Unverricht-Lundborg type, Lafora disease, neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses (three forms), MERRF (myoclonus epilepsy and ragged red fibers), and sialidoses (two forms), in addition to a number of even rarer disorders. Here we review the clinical aspects and neurophysiology of these disorders, which can now be diagnosed in life by relatively simple methods in the vast majority of cases.


Rats lived in individual chambers in which the only food available was delivered for lever pressing. During Stage I, a fixed number of presses was required for each food pellet. As this fixed ratio of presses per food pellet was increased daily, a rat's daily intake of food was reduced. During Stage II, the cost of a food pellet was increased by replacing each fixed ratio with its interval equivalent. Each interval was a rat's mean time between the first press of a ratio and the delivery of a pellet during Stage I. During Stage II, only two presses were every required for a food pellet: The first press initiated a delay and the second activated the pellet dispenser after that delay elapsed. Food intakes for the series of fixed ratios and a rat's series of delay equivalents were very similar when plotted as a function of delay, but not when plotted as a function of presses per pellet. Consequently, the fixed ratio reduced food intake because larger ratios increased delay to food from the first press of a ratio. Observations and an analysis of interresponse times further revealed that as the fixed ratio increased, and local as well as overall rate of food intake decreased, lever pressing became more stereotyped. Because this increased stereotypy resulted in greatly increased rates of lever pressing, delay to food was minimized, and perhaps more importantly, so too was the reduction of a rat's baseline daily intake.
The role of centrally located motoneurones in producing the whole-body withdrawal response of Lymnaea stagnalis (L.) was investigated. The motoneurones innervating the muscles used during whole-body withdrawal, the columellar muscle (CM) and the dorsal longitudinal muscle (DLM) were cells with a high resting potential (-60 to -70 mV) and thus a high threshold for spike initiation. In both semi-intact and isolated brain preparations these motoneurones showed very little spontaneous spike activity. When spontaneous firing was seen it could be correlated with the occurrence of two types of spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP). One was a unitary EPSP that occasionally caused the initiation of single action potentials. The second was a larger-amplitude, long-duration (presumably compound) EPSP that caused the motoneurones to fire a burst of high-frequency action potentials. This second type of EPSP activity was associated with spontaneous longitudinal contractions of the body in semi-intact preparations. Tactile stimulation of the skin of Lymnaea evoked EPSPs in the CM and DLM motoneurones and in some other identified cells. These EPSPs summated and usually caused the motoneurone to fire action potentials, thus activating the withdrawal response muscles and causing longitudinal contraction of the semi-intact animal. Stimulating different areas of the body wall demonstrated that there was considerable sensory convergence on the side of the body ipsilateral to stimulation, but less on the contralateral side. Photic (light off) stimulation of the skin of Lymnaea also initiated EPSPs in CM and DLM motoneurones and in some other identified cells in the central nervous system (CNS). Cutting central nerves demonstrated that the reception of this sensory input was mediated by dermal photoreceptors distributed throughout the epidermis. The activation of the CM and DLM motoneurones by sensory input of the modalities that normally cause the whole-body withdrawal of the intact animal demonstrates that these motoneurones have the appropriate electrophysiological properties for the role of mediating whole-body withdrawal.
Two muscle systems mediated the whole-body withdrawal response of Lymnaea stagnalis: the columellar muscle (CM) and the dorsal longitudinal muscle (DLM). The CM was innervated by the columellar nerves and contracted longitudinally to shorten the ventral head-foot complex and to pull the shell forward and down over the body. The DLM was innervated by the superior and inferior cervical nerves and the left and right parietal nerves. During whole-body withdrawal, the DLM contracted synchronously with the CM and shortened the dorsal head-foot longitudinally. The CM and the DLM were innervated by a network of motoneurones. The somata of these cells were located in seven ganglia of the central nervous system (CNS), but were especially concentrated in the bilaterally symmetrical A clusters of the cerebral ganglia. The CM was innervated by cells in the cerebral and pedal ganglia and the DLM by cells in the cerebral, pedal, pleural and left parietal ganglia. Individual motoneurones innervated large, but discrete, areas of muscle, which often overlapped with those innervated by other motoneurones. Motoneuronal action potentials evoked one-for-one non-facilitating excitatory junction potentials within muscle fibres. No all-or-nothing action potentials were recorded in the CM or DLM, and they did not appear to be innervated by inhibitory motoneurones. The whole network of motoneurones was electrotonically coupled, with most cells on one side of the CNS strongly coupled to each other but weakly coupled to cells on the contralateral side of the CNS. This electrotonic coupling between motoneurones is probably important in producing synchronous contraction of the CM and DLM when the animal retracts its head-foot complex during whole-body withdrawal.
We have developed a technique in which immunofluorescence is combined with in situ hybridization using cDNA and RNA probes to assess the expression and distribution of messenger RNAs (mRNA) by neurons and neuroglia in tissue cultures of the rat dentate gyrus. The probes used in this study include a cDNA probe for ribosomal RNA (rRNA) and an RNA probe (cRNA) for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GEAP), an intermediate filament protein subunit expressed by astrocytes in the central nervous system. Both ubiquitous (tubulin) and cell type-specific (MAP-2 and GEAP) antibodies were used to identify neurons and neuroglia in culture. Using this procedure, the mRNA for rRNA was found in the cell bodies and large processes of MAP-2-positive neurons and throughout the cytoplasm of GEAP-positive flat astrocytes. In process-bearing astrocytes, GEAP mRNA is concentrated in the cell body, although some hybridization also occurred in astrocyte cell processes. With this combined in situ hybridization-immunofluorescence technique, the expression and distribution of an mRNA can be examined in different immunocytochemically identified cell types under identical culture and hybridization conditions. It is also possible to determine if there is a differential subcellular distribution of an mRNA in a single cell and if the distribution of the mRNA reflects the distribution of the protein itself. Finally, this technique can be utilized to verify the specificity of probes for cell type-specific mRNAs and to determine appropriate hybridization conditions to produce a specific signal.
A total of 3622 physicians registered in the Association of Physicians of India were contacted through mail and requested to respond to a semistructured questionnaire pertaining to different aspects of medical ethics, with particular focus on informed consent. Six hundred twenty-nine physicians (17.4%) responded to the questionnaire; 86% of the respondents reported having had no formal training in medical ethics; 49% of the subjects who undertook research obtained oral consent only. Majority of the respondents noted the relevance of ethics in different medical situations, though in certain areas like community health and research using animals ethical issues were felt to be less important. Patients' inability to come for regular follow-up and illiteracy were opined to be the main constraints in obtaining consent. Opinion on the amount of information to be imported to research participants as part of informed consent was at variance with standard guidelines. Physicians who reported having had an orientation course in medical ethics and those with prior research experience were more aware of ethical issues. Majority of the professionals desired for inclusion of ethics in medical curriculum.
The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor is thought to contain several distinct binding sites that can regulate channel opening. In the present experiments, the effects of ligands for these sites have been examined on [3H]MK-801 binding to a soluble receptor preparation, which had been passed down a gel filtration column to reduce the levels of endogenous small-molecular-weight substances. Glycine site agonists, partial agonists, and antagonists gave effects similar to those observed in membranes [EC50 values (in microM): glycine, 0.31; D-serine, 0.20; D-cycloserine, 1.46; (+)-HA-966, 4.06; and 7-chlorokynurenic acid, 1.81]. Spermine and spermidine enhanced [3H]MK-801 binding to the soluble receptor preparation (EC50, 4.3 and 20.1 microM, respectively), whereas putrescine and cadaverine gave small degrees of inhibitions. When spermine and spermidine were tested under conditions where [3H]MK-801 binding approached equilibrium, their ability to enhance [3H]MK-801 binding was much reduced, a result suggesting that the polyamines increase the rate to equilibrium. Putrescine antagonised the effects of spermine. Ifenprodil reduced [3H]MK-801 binding under both equilibrium and nonequilibrium conditions, although the high-affinity component of inhibition described in membranes was not observed. Ifenprodil antagonised spermine effects in an apparently noncompetitive manner. Desipramine was able to give total inhibition of specific [3H]MK-801 binding under nonequilibrium conditions with an IC50 of 4 microM, and this value was unaltered when [3H]MK-801 binding was allowed to reach equilibrium. These results suggest that the sites mediating the effects of glycine and its analogues, polyamines and desipramine are integral components of the NMDA receptor protein.
Both the iron mobilization protein transferrin and iron itself are found predominantly in oligodendrocytes in the brain and consequently have been hypothesized to have a role in myelination. This study is designed to begin to understand the mechanism(s) that control the expression of transferrin at the gene level in the nervous system using a hypomyelinating murine mutant (jimpy mouse). With this animal model it is possible to determine if transferrin gene expression in the nervous system is dependent on the presence of a mature oligodendrocytic population. The results demonstrate that normally expression of the transferrin gene increases from postnatal day 5 to 22-25 and then levels off in the adult. In the jimpy mouse, the relative amount of transferrin gene expression is less than that of littermate controls at 5 days of age. Furthermore, transferrin gene expression does not increase with age beyond the level observed at postnatal day 5 in the jimpy mouse. It is concluded from this study that the majority of the transferrin mRNA in the mouse brain is expressed by and/or requires the presence of a mature oligodendrocytic population.
The effects of light, 2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid (APB), and kainic acid on rat retinal gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-ergic transmission were studied by measuring levels of retinal GABA following subcutaneous injection of gabaculine, an irreversible inhibitor of GABA-transaminase. Post-gabaculine levels of retinal GABA in light-exposed rats were significantly greater than those in rats held in darkness. The synaptic mechanism of this effect of light was examined by measuring post-gabaculine levels of retinal GABA in rats placed into either lighted or darkened conditions after receiving unilateral intravitreal injections of APB, a glutamate analogue that selectively decreases the activity of ON synaptic pathways in the retina. APB attenuated the post-gabaculine accumulation of GABA in rats held in the light, but not in those placed into darkness. Furthermore, the light-dependent increment in post-gabaculine accumulation of retinal GABA was entirely APB sensitive, and the effect of APB was entirely light dependent. In contrast to APB, kainic acid stimulated the post-gabaculine accumulation of retinal GABA in vivo. Our findings suggest that APB and kainic acid influence GABAergic transmission at different sites in the retina and that some retinal GABAergic neurons are either ON or ON-OFF amacrine cells.

The formation of focal granular enlargements within axons (axonal spheroids or &quot;torpedoes&quot;; neuroaxonal dystrophy) is a well known phenomenon occurring in a variety of neurological diseases. The relative susceptibility of different types of neurons to this kind of axonal pathology, however, is largely unknown. An immunocytochemical study directed at localizing glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), the synthetic enzyme for the inhibitory neurotransmitter, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), in various CNS regions in feline models of lysosomal storage disorders has revealed vast numbers of axonal spheroids containing this enzyme. In some storage diseases (GM1 and GM2 gangliosidosis), GAD-immunoreactive spheroids were a common occurrence in many brain regions, whereas in other disorders these structures were more limited in distribution (alpha-mannosidosis), or were absent (mucopolysaccharidosis type I). Axonal spheroids unreactive for GAD were encountered in large numbers in subcortical white matter in GM2 gangliosidosis, but were infrequently observed in the other diseases. The incidence and distribution of GAD-immunoreactive spheroids in the various diseases under study were found to correlate closely with the type and degree of neurological deficits exhibited by affected animals. This study indicates that the neuroaxonal dystrophy occurring in some types of storage disorders commonly involves axons of GABAergic neurons and suggests that a resulting defect in neurotransmission in inhibitory circuits may be an important factor underlying brain dysfunction in this family of diseases.
The pattern of brain asymmetries was visualized on computed tomography (CT) scan in patients with a single acute cerebrovascular lesion. Patients were divided into those with typical or reversed frontal and/or occipital asymmetries. Among patients with a typical occipital asymmetry, those with left frontal or left basal ganglia lesions showed a significantly higher frequency of major depression and significantly higher depression scores than patients with similar lesion location but with reversed occipital asymmetry or those with a typical asymmetry and lesions in other (left or right) brain areas. Among patients with a reversed occipital asymmetry, there was no significant association between left frontal or left basal ganglia lesions and depression. This study demonstrates that the previously reported significant association between post-stroke major depression and lesion location is restricted to patients with a typical occipital asymmetry and is not present in patients with a reversed occipital asymmetry.

Previous study revealed that bursting activity generated by a variety of means in slices of piriform cortex induces persistent epileptiform EPSPs in superficial pyramidal cells by an NMDA-dependent process. The present study was undertaken to test the hypothesis that the observed epileptiform EPSPs in superficial pyramidal cells are driven by deep cells. This hypothesis was suggested by recent findings from in vitro studies of the properties of deep cells and in vivo studies indicating that the deep part of the piriform cortex or neighboring deep structures are involved in the generation of seizure activity in animal models of epilepsy. Results from simultaneous cell-pair recordings, examination of subdivided slices, and local application of excitatory and inhibitory agents provided strong evidence in support of this hypothesis. It was concluded that the endopiriform nucleus, a collection of cells immediately deep to the piriform cortex, plays a central role in generation, but that cells in the deep part of layer III and the claustrum may also contribute. Furthermore, it was found that generation of prolonged ictal-like activity only occurs in slices of piriform cortex in which the endopiriform nucleus is present. Implications of these findings for epileptogenesis are discussed.
The fate of iodinated basic fibroblast growth factor (FGF) after its binding to cultured astrocytes and hippocampal neurons was studied. Autoradiography after light and electron microscopy establishes that, if cells are returned to 37 degrees C, the 125I-basic FGF bound internalizes into vesicles in the cytoplasm, localizes to the perinuclear cytoplasm, and is translocated to chromatin structures of the nucleus. The radiolabeled protein is long-lived, a finding confirmed by biochemical analyses. Polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and autoradiography of both hippocampal neurons and astrocyte extracts reveal that these cells internalize 125I-basic FGF and then metabolize it to three major heparin-binding peptides with molecular weights of 15.5, 9, and 4 kDa. These peptides are initially detected 16 hr after binding to neurons and 4 hr after binding to astrocytes but are still detectable 48 and 16 hr, respectively, after initial binding (though present at lower levels). Immunoprecipitation with sequence-specific antisera to basic FGF reveals that the 15.5-kDa fragment is generated by cleavage at the carboxyl terminus, that the 9-kDa peptide contains the sequences between residues 30 and 87, and the 4-kDa peptide is a C-terminus fragment containing the sequence of basic FGF(106-120) but without basic FGF(139-146) immunoreactivity. The internalization of basic FGF is required for this processing; the treatment of cells with trypsin and 2 M NaCl at different times after binding can only prevent the metabolism of basic FGF if it is performed immediately after binding. Similarly, WGA, which inhibits basic FGF binding to its high-affinity receptor, prevents the metabolism of basic FGF. The possible significance of a metabolic pathway that is responsible for the processing of basic FGF after its internalization by cells in the CNS is discussed in light of its potential function as a neurotrophic factor.
Voltage-sensitive dyes offer the promise of noninvasive multicell recording of electrical activity, and should therefore be useful for studying the synaptic interactions of small networks of cultured neurons. We have designed and built a system for recording from microcultures of 1-15 neurons from the rat superior cervical ganglion (SCG), using voltage-sensitive fluorescent dyes of the styryl class. The apparatus comprises a standard inverted epifluorescence microscope; a mercury arc lamp with an optical feedback regulator; a 256-pixel fiber-optic camera with individual photodiode detectors and very low-noise amplifiers; and a personal computer-based data acquisition system. Its dark noise and illumination fluctuations are low enough that at typical fluorescence levels for these cells, it is limited by shot noise (the inherent physical limit of detection). Recording from SCG neurons, the signal-to-noise ratio is high enough to see large subthreshold synaptic potentials without signal averaging. This apparatus should be useful for studying long-term synaptic plasticity in cultures of vertebrate neurons, and several of its features should apply to optical recording from other preparations.
A technique is described for producing accurate stereotaxic lesions of the hippocampus in monkeys. This technique overcomes the problem that the size and shape of the brain can vary considerably from monkey to monkey. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is used to create an individual brain atlas for each monkey. The atlas is then used to derive coordinates for making stereotaxic radio frequency lesions of the hippocampus. There are two key features of this procedure. First, a specially-designed, acrylic, stereotaxic headholder was constructed that could be used safely with the MR magnet. Second, small glass beads, anchored to the skull of the monkey, served as common landmarks from which lesion coordinates were determined in the MR images and then again in neurosurgery. MRI techniques are also described for determining the extent of tissue damage postoperatively. This technique could also prove useful in other areas of neuroscience research that depend on accurate stereotaxic placement of electrodes (e.g., electrophysiological studies and neuroanatomic tracing studies).
This report describes methods for making repeated recordings from visual cortex in infant macaque monkeys (age range 5 weeks to 7 months) both under nitrous oxide anesthesia and in an alert behaving state. These methods permitted successful collection of single-unit data from inferior temporal cortex and other areas in a longitudinal fashion from individual infants. For the anesthetized experiments, modifications of our standard techniques for surgical preparation and maintenance of the animal in an anesthetized, artificially ventilated state permitted repeated recording sessions while assuring the animal's continued health and normal growth. Following implantation with an eye coil, monkeys as young as 5 weeks could be trained to perform a fixation task during alert recording sessions which were likewise performed on a repeated basis with maintained health and development. Further, comparison of results from anesthetized and awake recording sessions indicates that alert recording is preferable for collecting certain types of data from visual cortex in infant monkeys.
A low-cost solution for a visual flow field device is described. The apparatus generates progressive and regressive patterns of motion with variable angular speeds and intensities. Additionally, rotational stimuli can be applied. First results show the efficiency of the flow field in producing flight behavior and steering responses in visual interneurons of locusts.
A quick and accurate computer-assisted method of quantifying the number of myelinated axons in normal and experimental or regenerated peripheral nerve cross-sections is described. Using an IBM-PC, quantitation software and a light microscope with a camera lucida attachment, the number of axons in a sciatic nerve can be calculated in fifteen minutes. Nine nerve samples with various nerve diameters and axon densities were used to test the technique. Total counts (actual count) were compared to the number of axons estimated by the line-sampling technique (projected count) and the two groups varied up to 15%. The principle advantage of this method is that it saves time by eliminating photography and performing total counts. The technique can be applied to normal and regenerated peripheral nerve.
Hypothalamic paraventricular and supraoptic neurons were recorded intracellularly in coronal slices and injected with Lucifer yellow, ethidium bromide or biocytin. Electrical properties, morphological staining and neurophysin immunohistochemistry were compared among the 3 markers. Lucifer yellow electrodes had a high resistance and frequently blocked during experiments. Neurons recorded with Lucifer yellow electrodes had low input resistances and low-amplitude, broad spikes. Lucifer yellow labeling in whole mount was highly fluorescent, revealing distal dendrites and axons. Of cells injected with Lucifer yellow, 64% were recovered but were faint after immunohistochemical processing. Recordings with ethidium bromide electrodes were similar to controls, although electrode blockage sometimes occurred. Only somata and proximal dendrites of ethidium bromide-filled neurons were visible in whole-mount. Forty percent of cells injected with ethidium bromide were recovered after immunohistochemical processing; these were invariably faint. Recordings with biocytin-filled electrodes were similar to control recordings. Biocytin-filled, HRP-labeled cells showed distal dendrites and often dendritic spines and axons in 50-75-microns sections. Seventy percent of biocytin-injected cells labeled with fluorescent markers were recovered and remained strongly labeled after immunohistochemical processing. Biocytin had the best electrical and staining properties for combined electrophysiological and anatomical studies.
Complications following the insertion of intravenous catheters are relatively uncommon. We report a potentially serious, hitherto unrecognized complication of Hickman line insertion, and discuss the condition.
Marked differences in CSF levels of both calcium and phosphorus were observed in patients with dementia and aged controls when compared with adult controls. A significant decrease in both Ca and P in CSF was observed in Alzheimer's type dementia (p less than 0.01) and multi-infarct dementia cases (p less than 0.01). The geriatric controls also showed a significant decrease in both Ca and P. A 60% decrease in diffusible Ca in CSF was noted both in patients and geriatric controls when compared to adult controls (p less than 0.001). Diffusible P was also decreased in all three groups (p less than 0.05). A marginal decrease in serum Ca and slight increase in P was observed in both patients and geriatric controls. The significant decrease in CSF Ca and P in both groups of patients compared with aged controls suggests this lowering of Ca and P is not due to solely to the aging process and indicates a role in the pathology of age-related disorders.

gamma-Aminobutyric acid (GABA) is the most widely distributed known inhibitory neurotransmitter in the vertebrate brain. GABA also serves regulatory and trophic roles in several other organs, including the pancreas. The brain contains two forms of the GABA synthetic enzyme glutamate decarboxylase (GAD), which differ in molecular size, amino acid sequence, antigenicity, cellular and subcellular location, and interaction with the GAD cofactor pyridoxal phosphate. These forms, GAD65 and GAD67, derive from two genes. The distinctive properties of the two GADs provide a substrate for understanding not only the multiple roles of GABA in the nervous system, but also the autoimmune response to GAD in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.
Cerebellar long-term depression (LTD) is a model of synaptic plasticity in which conjunctive stimulation of parallel fiber and climbing fiber inputs to a Purkinje neuron induces a persistent depression of the parallel fiber-Purkinje neuron synapse. We report that an analogous phenomenon may be elicited in the cultured mouse Purkinje neuron when iontophoretic glutamate application and depolarization of the Purkinje neurons are substituted for parallel fiber and climbing fiber stimulation, respectively. The induction of LTD in these cerebellar cultures requires activation of both ionotropic (AMPA) and metabotropic quisqualate receptors, together with depolarization in the presence of external Ca2+. This postsynaptic alteration is manifest as a depression of glutamate or AMPA currents, but not aspartate or NMDA currents. These results strengthen the contention that the expression of cerebellar LTD is at least in part postsynaptic and provide evidence that activation of both ionotropic and metabotropic quisqualate receptors are necessary for LTD induction.
A number of pharmacologically and electrophysiologically distinct voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels have been identified in mammalian neurons. Two rat brain Ca2+ channel alpha 1 subunits (rbC-I and rbC-II) have been isolated by molecular cloning and shown to be highly related (95%) to the cardiac dihydropyridine-sensitive Ca2+ channel. The rbC-II protein is distinct from rbC-I in that it contains a 3 amino acid insert in the putative cytoplasmic loop between domains II and III and a 28 amino acid substitution corresponding to the third transmembrane segment (S3) of the fourth domain. We show that rbC-I and rbC-II transcripts are generated by alternative splicing and that they are differentially expressed in the rat CNS.
The release of stored Ca2+ from intracellular pools triggers a variety of important neuronal processes. Physiological and pharmacological evidence has indicated the presence of caffeine-sensitive intracellular pools that are distinct from the well-characterized inositol 1,4,5,-trisphosphate (IP3)-gated pools. Here we report that the brain ryanodine receptor functions as a caffeine- and ryanodine-sensitive Ca2+ release channel that is distinct from the brain IP3 receptor. The brain ryanodine receptor has been purified 6700-fold with no change in [3H]ryanodine binding affinity and shown to be a homotetramer composed of an approximately 500 kd protein subunit, which is identified by anti-peptide antibodies against the skeletal and cardiac muscle ryanodine receptors. Our results demonstrate that the brain ryanodine receptor functions as a caffeine-sensitive Ca2+ release channel and thus is the likely gating mechanism for intracellular caffeine-sensitive Ca2+ pools in neurons.
Although nerve growth factor (NGF) action is mediated by the slow, high affinity NGF receptor, little is known regarding its molecular composition or mode of action. We have used reversible chemical cross-linkers and affinity chromatography strategies to purify the slow NGF receptor covalently cross-linked to its NGF ligand. Subsequent uncoupling of the cross-links reveals that the receptor-ligand complex is composed of only a novel 135 kd polypeptide interacting with NGF. The previously characterized 85 kd fast, low affinity NGF receptor is not a component of the cross-linked slow receptor-ligand complex. This newly identified 135 kd polypeptide is either the entire slow NGF receptor, or it might be one component of a larger, multisubunit slow NGF holo-receptor.
Oxytocin, the peptide well-known for its hormonal role in parturition and lactation, is present in several extrahypothalamic brain areas besides the neurohypophyseal system. The peptide is found in neurons which send their projections to brain areas containing specific oxytocin-binding sites. Oxytocin is also released from its synapses in a calcium-dependent fashion and may be the precursor of potent behaviorally active neuropeptides. These findings suggest that this ancient neuropeptide acts as a neurotransmitter in the central nervous system. We have attempted to review the most recent behavioral, morphological, electrophysiological and neurochemical studies providing evidence that oxytocin plays an important role in the expression of central functions, such as maternal behavior, sexual behavior (penile erection, lordosis and copulatory behavior), yawning, memory and learning, tolerance and dependence mechanisms, feeding, grooming, cardiovascular regulation and thermoregulation.
Rats, 3 weeks of age, consumed diets low or normal in calcium (Ca) with or without supplemental manganese (Mn) as Mn (II) acetate in drinking water. After 6 weeks, the animals were killed and [Mn] was determined in 8 brain regions, spinal cord, liver, serum, kidney, femur, and skeletal muscle. Serum [Mn] increased 1.5-, 4-, and 40-fold respectively, in normal Ca-supplemented Mn rats, low Ca rats, and low Ca-supplemented Mn rats. Elevation of tissue [Mn] occurred in all experimental groups with the greatest changes in the low Ca-extra Mn group: 6 - 12 fold in brain and spinal cord, and 2.5 - 140 fold in muscle, liver, kidney, and femur. Ratios of serum [Mn]/tissue [Mn] decreased as serum [Mn] increased suggesting saturable distribution. The findings suggest that Ca deficiency may cause Mn neurotoxicity by increasing dietary Mn absorption and brain [Mn].

Chronic treatment with imipramine (15 mg/kg, twice daily for 14 days) induces a down-regulation of limbic D1 receptors in rats but not in mice. In this mouse strain, both chronic and acute imipramine treatment have been shown to produce clear behavioral effects in the forced swim test. While the data presented here are consistent with previously reported findings in rats, they demonstrate that the down-regulation of D1 receptors by chronic antidepressant treatment is species-specific. This phenomenon indicates that D1 receptor down-regulation is not critical to the therapeutic mechanism of action of antidepressants.
Effects of chloral hydrate anesthesia on EEG power spectra and VEP components were examined as a function of both pigmentation and strain differences in rats. Ten albino Westenberg Long Evans rats (WLE A) were compared to ten pigmented Westenberg Long Evans rats (WLE P), and to ten Wistar albino (Wis A) rats. Albino rats required less chloral hydrate to reach a deep level of anesthesia than pigmented rats. Wistar rats remained anesthetized longer than WLE rats. During deep levels of anesthesia, the lowest EEG frequency band contained more power in Wistar rats than in WLE rats. During moderate levels of anesthesia, frequencies less than 4 Hz lost power while frequencies greater than 13 Hz gained across all rats. Wistar rats had more power in the frequencies less than 8 Hz than did WLE rats; pigmented rats had more power in the frequencies greater than 13 Hz than did albinos. VEP component latencies of pigmented rats were shorter than albinos. Component amplitudes were not significantly different between groups.
Effects of the dihydropyridine calcium channel inhibitor nifedipine on chronic schizophrenia and tardive dyskinesia were studied in an 8-week double-blind crossover trial. Four of the ten patients had tardive dyskinesia, and three of these were not receiving neuroleptics. No effects on symptoms of chronic schizophrenia were found using Psychiatric Symptom Assessment Scale ratings. In the four patients with tardive dyskinesia, an average improvement in total Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale scores of 57% was observed. These data suggest that dihydropyridine calcium channel inhibitors may be effective in the treatment of tardive dyskinesia in schizophrenic patients.
The feeding and locomotor activities of rats were used as an assay for the potentially toxic effects of an oxygen-carrying blood substitute. Rats lived in individual cages where they could feed ad lib by pressing a lever once for each small food pellet, drink water, or run in a wheel; a 12-h light/dark cycle was continuously in effect. After being anesthetized and hemorrhaged one-third of their total blood volume, individual rats were resuscitated with one of the following fluids: their own shed blood (OB), bis(3,5-dibromosalicylfumarate) alpha-alpha cross-linked hemoglobin (HbXL), human serum albumin (HSA), or Ringer's lactate (RL). Rats in a fifth group were not resuscitated (NR). During the dark period on the day of hemorrhage, the food intake and running activity of rats in all groups decreased. Food intake and locomotor activity of rats in the HbXL, NR and OB groups were more suppressed than the HSA or RL groups. The food intake of rats in the HbXL and NR groups remained significantly more suppressed during the dark period of the first recovery day; running continued to be suppressed in the HbXL group on the first recovery day, but not the second recovery day. In an effort to determine the extent to which the rats in the HbXL group were impaired, an increasing number of lever presses was required for each food pellet beginning with recovery day number 3 for all treatment groups. As the ratio of presses per pellet was increased, food intake decreased and running increased for all groups; no differences between groups were significant.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The spontaneous motor activity, fecal pellet scores and content of dopamine and its metabolites, dihydroxyphenyl acetic acid and homovanillic acid in corpus striatum were measured in a group of randomly selected Sprague-Dawley rats. The spontaneous motility, fecal pellet scores and neurochemical parameters measured showed significant variations. The correlations between these parameters were investigated. A significant correspondence was seen between the motility, fecal pellet scores and the striatal dopaminergic activity. The implications of the behavioral models of motility and defecation scores in studying the central dopaminergic function is discussed. It is suggested that striatal dopaminergic activity may be responsible not only for motor activity but also may contribute to the de novo emotionality as expressed by the defecation scores in rats.
Expression of the c-fos protooncogene is induced by a great variety of extracellular stimuli. A fos-lacZ fusion gene has been constructed that recapitulates this regulation. The fos-lacZ gene was introduced into B104 neuroblastoma cells for use in a quantitative assay for stimulus-transcription coupling. Both alpha- and beta-adrenergic agonists, dibutyryl cAMP, and phorbol ester induced beta-galactosidase activity in a dose-dependent manner. Thus, the interactions of receptors with agonists and antagonists, as well as intracellular second messenger-mediated signaling events, can be analyzed quantitatively. This approach represents a prototypic method for investigating stimulus-response coupling based upon gene expression.
We report on the results of a study on the peripheral nerve function in 40 patients with type I diabetes mellitus with onset in pediatric age. Results have shown a significant decrease in motor and sensory nerve conduction velocities (NCV) in a high percentage of cases, correlated with the degree of metabolic control. The finding of NCV slowing also in patients with a history of diabetes of less than 10 years and the presence in these cases of a high number of complications (autonomic neuropathy, nephropathy, retinopathy) may suggest that peripheral neuropathy is an early-onset complication and that its prompt recognition through neurophysiological investigations can have some predictive value in forecasting other complications. This hypothesis is to be verified through prospective studies.
Despite inherent difficulties in defining and measuring stress, a scientific framework has been provided in recent years for understanding how disruptive life experiences might be translated into altered susceptibility to infectious diseases. Studies of the effects of stress on pathogenesis of infectious disease are highly relevant to assessment of the biological importance of the immune impairments that have been associated with stress. With a few notable exceptions, investigations of viral infections in humans and in animal models support the hypothesis that stress promotes the pathogenesis of such infections. Similar conclusions can be drawn from studies of bacterial infections in humans and animals and from a small number of studies of parasitic infections in rodent models. While many of these studies have substantial limitations, the data nonetheless suggest that stress is a potential cofactor in the pathogenesis of infectious disease. Given recent unprecedented advances in the neurosciences, in immunology, and in the field of microbial pathogenesis, the relationship between stress and infection should be a fruitful topic for interdisciplinary research.
We have recently cared for two patients with spinal sepsis secondary to infection with Streptococcus milleri. One patient had a spinal epidural abscess and the other had meningitis as well as a spinal subdural empyema. A review of the English-language literature revealed only two previously reported cases of spinal epidural abscess due to S. milleri and no cases of spinal subdural empyema due to S. milleri. We report two cases of spinal sepsis due to S. milleri and discuss pertinent literature.
It is generally considered that damage to the brain during infancy and young childhood results in milder or different syndromes than does brain injury incurred during adulthood. However, only several past studies employed CT scans to confirm that lesions are confined to one of the two cerebral hemispheres. We examined intelligence and language skills of 5 cases, which sustained nonprogressive damage exclusively to the left cerebral hemisphere before 1 year of age, and 1 case, which incurred nonprogressive left hemisphere injury at 3 years of age. These cases were tested at 9 to 25 years of age, or 8 to 22 years after inflicting injuries. The following scales and tests, all of which are Japanese versions, were employed: the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-Revised (WISC-R) to measure intelligence of 3 cases at 15 years of age or younger, the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS) for 3 cases older than 15 years of age, the Western Aphasia Bettery (WAB) to measure language skills, and the shortened version of the Token Test to assess auditory comprehension skills. Upon administration of the tests, we obtained the following results: 1) Although 1 case had a large lesion in the left hemisphere, she exhibited a high IQ of 111, and was adapted well as a college student. The result suggested that large lesions, if incurred at no later than 1 year of age, may affect intelligence to only a little or negligible extent. 2) Verbal IQ generally declines from left hemisphere damage in adults. In all of our subjects, however, verbal IQ was similar to performance IQ.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Risk factors thought to predispose to schizophrenia, and premorbid functioning, were assessed blind to diagnosis by interviewing the mothers of 73 patients with DSM-III schizophrenia or affective psychosis. Higher risk of schizophrenia in relatives, lower mean birth weight, a more frequent history of obstetric complications, and poorer educational achievement distinguished the patients with schizophrenia from those with affective psychosis. Low birth weight and obstetric complications each predicted childhood schizoid and schizotypal traits. Poor social adjustment between ages 5 and 11 was predicted by low birthweight and by a family history of schizophrenia.
In a review of 5,200 lumbar discectomies performed from 1974 to 1989, two patients sustained a ventral perforation of the disc space followed by isolated small intestinal injury. Both patients underwent lumbar discectomy at the lumbosacral junction and presented with signs and symptoms of acute abdominal distress within three days after the operation. At surgical laparotomy, small tears were noted in the ileum, which were closed primarily. The patients had an uneventful recovery. The results of a review of 11 instances reported in the literature suggest that isolated intestinal injuries usually occur postoperatively at the lumbosacral junction and involve the small intestine. Factors, such as body habitus, surgical experience, patient positioning and types of instruments, as well as the use of a surgical microscope, do not appear to modify the risk of intestinal injury. After discectomy, patients may present with acute abdominal signs and symptoms or chronic wound infections. Work-up studies include evaluation of vascular structures and ureters either roentgenographically or at abdominal exploration. A high index of suspicion and adequate disc space visualization during discectomy may reduce the incidence of this complication.
The history of the arachnoid membrane from antiquity to the present time is presented, including its anatomy, histology, and role in the absorption of cerebrospinal fluid. Special regard is given to the pioneering work of Key and Retzius.
A variety of evidence suggests a 'dopamine hypothesis' for the reinforcing properties of cocaine. This hypothesis proposes that cocaine binds at the dopamine transporter and mainly inhibits neurotransmitter re-uptake; the resulting potentiation of dopaminergic neurotransmission in mesolimbocortical pathways ultimately causes reinforcement. This model suggests potential medications for treatment of cocaine abuse and dependence. Some, but not all, pharmacological data in humans support the hypothesis and additional experimentation is needed.
The single neurone has been the guiding light for generations of neuroscientists. Now there are signs from experimental and theoretical work on the neocortex that we are on the threshold of a revolution in which the hegemony of the single neurone will be replaced by much more circuit-oriented concepts. We consider here why traditional views of the significance of single neurones are fading in power, and consider the problem of deciding on the form of a new order.
In this article, experiments are reviewed that have a bearing on the question of how 'meaning' is related to neuronal activity in the mammalian cortex; there is evidence that the excitation time pattern plays a major role. We suggest that 'objective meaning' is related to spatiotemporal activity distributions, whereas spike counts indicate the importance of the contribution of a given neurone to that meaning. Such a 'dual-coding' principle allows the visual system to emphasize selected activity components by central messages. The feature to be noted is that the objective meaning remains largely unaltered.
Until 1945, when Germany was subdivided into four occupied territories, scientific traditions and science policy were the same throughout Germany. Then came 45 years of increasing separation and diverging development. Now, the East and West are again formally united and their inhabitants are experiencing, with an intensity that was not anticipated, just how different their countries have become.

In the paper data of experimental verification of &quot;spherical theory of perception&quot; (E. N. Sokolov) are summed on the material of colour perception study. The results of psychophysical experiments with subjects having different forms of colour perception (normal trichromats, colour anomalies) and neurophysiological experiments on animals (carp) are considered within single psychophysiological system--spherical model of colour discrimination. Neuron-like elements of the model reflect the activity of light-sensitive cells of the visual system and at the same time reproduce some rules of subjective colours discrimination at the psychophysical level. Advantages of spherical model are considered allowing to analyze human individual colour functions in norm and pathology and giving the opportunity of strictly quantitative approach to description of neuronal mechanisms of colour vision. From the position of spherical model of colour discrimination neuronal structure of colour analyzer is discussed, which includes layers of photoreceptors, ++predetectors (colour-opponent and achromatic cells) and colour-selective detectors.
Sialidase isolated from human placenta is associated with several proteins including acid beta-galactosidase, carboxypeptidase, N-acetyl-alpha-galactosaminidase, and others. These proteins are thought to form an aggregated complex during isolation of sialidase. One of the proteins of 60 kDa was recently identified by Potier et al. (Biochem. Biophys. Res. Comm. 173, 449-456, 1990) as a sialidase protein: this protein also cross-reacted with anti-prosaposin antibodies. We have isolated this protein and from the following evidence identified it as a heavy chain component of immunoglobulin G and not sialidase or a derivative of prosaposin. On gel filtration HPLC, sialidase activity and the 60 kDa protein were clearly separated from one another. The 60 kDa protein cross-reacted not only with antibodies raised against human saposins A, C, and D, but also with second antibody (goat anti-rabbit immunoglobulin G antibody) alone. This 60 kDa protein strongly cross-reacted with anti-human immunoglobulin G antibodies. The sequence of the initial 15 amino acids from the N-terminus of the 60 kDa protein was identical to the sequence of an immunoglobulin G heavy chain protein Tie (gamma 1).
Genomic DNA clones coding for polymorphic and monomorphic arylamine N-acetyltransferases (NAT) of human liver were isolated from a genomic DNA library, and their restriction maps and partial nucleotide sequences were determined. Messenger RNA for monomorphic NAT was coded in one exon, while mRNA for polymorphic NAT was coded in two exons; the 5'-noncoding region was located in one exon 8 kb upstream from another exon containing the coding and 3'-noncoding regions. Recently, we have shown that there are three types of polymorphic NAT gene; one of the genes corresponds to a high NAT activity, while the other two genes give rise to a low NAT activity. The restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) was analyzed by Southern blot hybridization of genomic DNAs from homozygotes of the three polymorphic NAT genes using various fragments of the cloned NAT gene. RFLPs of polymorphic NAT gene were observed in coding and 3'-flanking region upon digestion with BamHI and KpnI.
Nitric oxide is a messenger molecule, mediating the effect of endothelium-derived relaxing factor in blood vessels and the cytotoxic actions of macrophages, and playing a part in neuronal communication in the brain. Cloning of a complementary DNA for brain nitric oxide synthase reveals recognition sites for NADPH, FAD, flavin mononucleotide and calmodulin as well as phosphorylation sites, indicating that the synthase is regulated by many different factors. The only known mammalian enzyme with close homology is cytochrome P-450 reductase.
A68930, (1R,3S)-1-aminomethyl-5,6-dihydroxy-3-phenylisochroman HCl, is a potent (EC50 = 2.5 nM), partial (intrinsic activity = 66% of dopamine) agonist in the fish retina dopamine-sensitive adenylate cyclase model of the D1 dopamine receptor. In the rat caudate-putamen model of the D1 dopamine receptor, A68930 is a potent (EC50 = 2.1 nM) full agonist. In contrast, A68930 is a much weaker (EC50 = 3920 nM) full agonist in a biochemical model of the dopamine D2 receptor. The orientation of the 3-phenyl substituent in the molecule is critical for the affinity and selectivity of the molecule towards the dopamine D1 receptor. A68930 also displays weak alpha 2-agonist activity but the molecule is virtually inactive at the alpha 1- and beta-adrenoceptors. When tested in rats bearing a unilateral 6-OHDA lesion of the nigro-neostriatal neurons, A68930 elicits prolonged (greater than 20 h) contralateral turning that is antagonized by dopamine D1 receptor selective doses of SCH 23390 but not by D2 receptor selective doses of haloperidol. In this lesioned rat model, A68930 increases 2-deoxyglucose accumulation in the lesioned substantia nigra, pars reticulata. When tested in normal rats, A68930 elicits hyperactivity and, at higher doses, produces a forelimb clonus.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) of synaptic responses in the dentate gyrus neurons of the rat hippocampus was studied in in vitro slices with the use of intracellular recordings. The goal of the study was to determine if the expression of LTP is pre- or postsynaptic. LTP was induced by tetanic stimulation of the perforant pathway in the presence of bicuculline. The expression of potentiation was measured during low-intensity stimulation at 1-5 Hz. It was found that a 104% (S.E.M. +/- 35, n = 5) increase in the amplitude of evoked synaptic potentials was associated with a reduction in the number of transmission failures to 38% (S.E.M. +/- 15, n = 5) of the control values. The size of quantal responses was determined on the basis of asynchronous release from stimulated synapses. The average size of the quanta remained unchanged during LTP. The evident increase of quantal content suggests a presynaptic locus for expression of LTP.
Blood-nerve barrier tissues (endoneurial blood vessels and perineurium) of the frog's sciatic nerve were studied during chronic Wallerian degeneration to determine whether barrier function depends on the presence of intact axons. Sciatic nerves of adult frogs were transected in the abdominal cavity; the ends were tied to prevent regeneration and the distal nerve stumps were examined. Vascular permeabilities to horseradish peroxidase and to [14C]sucrose increased to day 14, returned toward normal levels by 6 weeks, and continued at near normal levels to 9 months. Perineurial permeabilities to the tracers increased by day 10 and remained elevated at 9 months. Proliferation of perineurial, endothelial, and mast cells occurred between 3 days and 6 weeks, resulting in an increased vascular space (measured with [3H]dextran) and number of vascular profiles. The perineurium increased in thickness and the mast cells increased in number. This study indicates that during Wallerian degeneration of the frog's sciatic nerve there is 1) a transitory increase in vascular permeability distal to the lesion, that is related to changes within the endoneurium; 2) an irreversible increase in permeability of the perineurium, which begins later than that seen in the endoneurial blood vessels; and 3) proliferation of non-neuronal components in the absence of regenerating neuronal elements. The results indicate that maintenance of vascular integrity does not require the presence of axons in the frog's peripheral nerve, whereas perineurial integrity and barrier function are affected irreversibly by Wallerian degeneration.
The expression of three beta subunit (beta 1, beta 2, and beta 3) mRNAs for gamma-aminobutyric acidA receptor in the postnatal rat forebrain was examined by in situ hybridization histochemistry with probes synthesized for the respective subunit mRNAs. The developmental expression of these subunit mRNAs conformed to one of three patterns. Pattern I was high expression of the mRNA at birth and a constant or increasing expression thereafter. In contrast, pattern II was no or very low expression of the mRNA at birth, with expression quickly increasing to reach the adult level in the early postnatal period. Pattern III was the transient expression of the subunit mRNA or else a marked decrease of its expression after a peak in the early postnatal period. On the basis of this classification, the expression of beta 3 subunit mRNA followed pattern I in most regions of the forebrain, such as the isocortex, the olfactory bulb and some of its related areas, the hippocampal formation, the amygdala, the septum, the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the caudate-putamen, the nucleus accumbens, the globus pallidus, the ventral pallidum, and the hypothalamus. In some areas, such as the magnocellular preoptic nucleus, the thalamus, and the subthalamic nucleus, pattern III was seen for this subunit. However, none of the regions of the brain showed pattern II expression of beta 3 subunit mRNA. In contrast, the expression of beta 1 and beta 2 subunit mRNAs followed pattern II in most regions of the forebrain. These included the expression of beta 1 subunit mRNA in the isocortex, the olfactory bulb, the hippocampal formation, the amygdala, the septum, the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the thalamus, and the hypothalamus, and the expression of beta 2 subunit mRNA in the isocortex, the olfactory bulb and some of its related areas, the amygdala, the nucleus of the diagonal band, the caudate-putamen, the thalamus, and the hypothalamus. Pattern I was not found for beta 1 subunit mRNA, although it was seen in some areas for beta 2 subunit mRNA, such as the ventral pallidum, the globus pallidus, and the magnocellular preoptic nucleus. On the other hand, pattern III was followed by beta 1 subunit mRNA in the anterior olfactory nucleus, the olfactory tubercle, and the piriform cortex, and the same pattern for the beta 2 subunit was also found in the olfactory tubercle, the hippocampal formation, the septum, the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, and the nucleus accumbens.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The effect of myogenic differentiation on the expression of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity in co-cultured spinal cord neurons was studied. ChAT activity in spinal cord cells dissociated from 14-day mouse embryos was markedly increased when co-cultured with skeletal myotubes from 20-day embryos. This enhancement of ChAT activity was not observed in the presence of concanavalin A (ConA) or N-methyl-1-deoxynojirimycin (MDJN) which inhibits myoblast fusion, creatine phosphokinase and acetylcholinesterase activities in muscle cells. ChAT activity in spinal cord neurons cultured alone was unaffected by these agents. The inhibitory effect of ConA and MDJN was reversible, with an almost full recovery of ChAT activity following removal of the agents. Addition of ConA or MDJN after myotube formation exerted little inhibitory effect on ChAT activity. The effects of ConA and MDJN on ChAT activity in co-cultures were comparable to those on creatine phosphokinase and acetylcholinesterase. These observations indicate that the neurotrophic effects of skeletal muscle cells on spinal cord neurons are dependent on the differentiation state of the muscle cells.
Olfactory epithelial neurons in mammals are unique in that they continue to differentiate from precursor cells in the adult. These neurons extend long axons into the olfactory bulb. Previous attempts to grow these cells in dissociated cell cultures at low density, have not been entirely satisfactory. We report that when plated at very low density, rat olfactory epithelial neurons will differentiate morphologically and biochemically when cultured on astrocytes, but not on non-cellular substrata, such as polylysine, laminin or fibronectin. We demonstrate with antibodies, that these olfactory epithelial neurons require N-CAM, N-cadherin and L1 for neurite extension. Furthermore, synthetic cadherin-peptides containing the tripeptide HAV which is found in the first extracellular domain of N-cadherin, as well as the amino acids flanking this region, appear to be important in cadherin-mediated neurite growth on astrocytes. Astrocytes also appear to enhance the survival and differentiation of olfactory epithelial neurons from embryonic day 15 and 4-5 week post-natal rats, but this effect is not sustained beyond 5 days in cultures of postnatal epithelium.
The choroid plexus (CP) has an important role in regulating ion concentrations in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Maintenance of potassium concentration [( K]) in brain extracellular fluids lower than in serum is critical to proper neuronal function. We studied K (86Rb) transport by the isolated, lateral CP from infant and mature rats to determine the nature and development of CSF [K] regulation. Comparison of transport characteristics in media with 3-11 mM [K] showed that the adult CP increased uptake in a stepwise fashion with each 2 mM increase in [K], up to a 90% increase with 9 mM [K] over control (3 mM [K]). In contrast, 3-day CP increased uptake in 5 mM, but could not increase K uptake further with higher [K]. One-week tissues showed an intermediate response. Kinetic analysis of the ouabain-inhibitable component suggested that the immature tissues may express a different isoform of the catalytic (alpha) subunit of the Na,K-ATPase. These data may explain the previously established inability of neonatal rats to regulate CSF [K] when serum [K] is elevated, and they indicate that active K transport by the CP cells plays an integral role in CSF [K] regulation.
N-type calcium channels are thought to be expressed specifically in neuronal cells and to have a dominant role in the control of neurotransmitter release from sympathetic neurons. But their unitary properties are poorly understood and the separation of neuronal Ca2+ current into components carried by N-type or L-type Ca2+ channels is controversial. Here we show that individual N-type Ca2+ channels in sympathetic neurons can carry two kinetically distinct components of current, one that is rapidly transient and one that is long lasting. The mechanism that gives rise to these two components is unexpected for Ca2+ channels: a test depolarization elicits either a rapidly inactivating, single short burst with an average duration of 40 ms, or sustained, noninactivating channel activity lasting for over 1 s. The switching between inactivating and noninactivating activity is a slow process, the occurrence of each type of unitary kinetic behaviour remaining statistically correlated over several seconds. Variable coupling of inactivation in N-type Ca2+ channels could be an effective mechanism for the modulation of neuronal excitability and synaptic plasticity.
In previous work, we observed the presence of substantially elevated levels of GM2 after Simian Virus 40 (SV-40) transformation of human fetal brain cells. This elevated level of GM2 contrasted with the reports of many other investigators who had often observed decreased levels of GM2 and a simplification of ganglioside pattern in various non-neural rodent cell lines. In order to determine if the increase in GM2 in the transformed human brain cells would also be found in transformed rodent brain cells, we analyzed ganglioside changes after transformation in mouse brain cell lines and observed the increase in GM3 and low levels or lack of GM2 usually noted in rodent SV-40 transformed cell lines. In addition, we analyzed changes after SV-40 transformation in three human fibroblast lines and found that all three lines contained substantially elevated levels of GM2 after SV-40 transformation. As a result of this study, our earlier work on SV-40 transformed human brain cells, and occasional other reports of high levels of GM2 in human SV-40 transformed cell lines, elevated levels of GM2 may be considered a marker for SV-40 transformed human cells of both fibroblastic and neural origin.
The mechanisms by which quisqualate and carbachol increase intrasynaptosomal free calcium ([Ca2+]i) were studied in rat cortical synaptosomes. Quisqualate (0.01-100 microM) and carbachol (100-1000 microM) increased [Ca2+]i in Fura-2 acetoxymethyl ester (Fura-2 AM)-loaded synaptosomes. The resting level of [Ca2+]i was 118 nM. The maximum increase (55%) was produced by 10 microM quisqualate which had an EC50 of 0.2 microM. The maximum increase (28%) elicited by carbachol occurred at 1000 microM and the EC50 was 30 microM. The stimulatory effects of quisqualate on [Ca2+]i were blocked by heparin (100 I.U.) but not by staurosporine (1 microM), nifedipine (1 microM) or omega-conotoxin fraction GVIA (omega-CgTx) (0.5 microM). On the other hand, the effects of carbachol on [Ca2+]i were abolished by staurosporine, nifedipine or omega-CgTx but not by heparin. Carbachol (100 microM) also significantly increased 45Ca accumulation into either resting or K+ (30 mM)-depolarised synaptosomes and these effects were inhibited by staurosporine and nifedipine. Quisqualate (10 microM) had no effect on 45Ca accumulation under resting or depolarised conditions. When quisqualate and carbachol were used in combination, there were apparently additive effects on [Ca2+]i but not on 45Ca accumulation. It is concluded that carbachol increases [Ca2+]i by facilitating Ca2+ entry through L-type Ca2+ channels via a 1,2-diacylglycerol (DAG)-protein kinase C (PKC)-dependent pathway while quisqualate mobilizes Ca2+ from inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3)-sensitive stores.
Inositol monophosphatase is cleaved by endoprotease lys-C at a single site (Lys36-Ser37). The rate of proteolysis is greatly reduced in the presence of substrate (D,L-Ins(1)P) and Mg2+, and less so in the presence of Pi and Mg2+, consistent with protection of the susceptible bond in the E-P or E-Pi states of the enzyme. Potentiation by Li+ of the protection afforded by a substrate analogue, 1S-phosphoryloxy-2R,4S-dihydroxycyclohexane, and Mg2+ supports the idea that Li+ binds to the E-P state.
Transcription factors are rapidly and transiently induced in brain by excitatory stimuli and may be important in coordinating changes in gene expression underlying neuronal plasticity. In contrast to their transient induction after stimulation, certain transcription factors display stable, relatively high basal levels of expression in brain. Here we demonstrate that this &quot;constitutive&quot; expression of the transcription factor zif268 in cortex is driven by natural synaptic activity. Blockade of afferent visual activity with intraocular injections of tetrodotoxin results in rapid, dramatic reductions of Zif268 mRNA and immunoreactivity in visual cortex. Moreover, dark-adaptation for several days lowers zif268 expression in visual cortex, and expression rapidly returns to control levels upon subsequent light exposure. Several other transcription factors, which are induced in cortical neurons by excitatory stimuli, appear less responsive to changes in natural sensory input. These studies suggest that transcription factors play a role not only in responses to artificial stimuli but also in the normal maintenance of cortical physiology. Anatomic markers for zif268 may be useful in mapping normal cortical activity in brain.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) in the mouse submandibular gland undergoes cleavage of its amino-terminal octapeptide when salivation is induced by epinephrine. The significance of this event is uncertain; cleaved NGF demonstrates bioactivity and no function has been attributed to the octapeptide produced (NGF-OP; Ser-Ser-Thr-His-Pro-Val-Phe-His). Enzyme inhibition studies indicating structural relatedness of NGF-OP and bradykinin (BK) prompted us to determine whether NGF-OP would elicit BK-like actions. We found that like BK, NGF-OP induced a decrease in mechanical nociceptive threshold (i.e., produced hyperalgesia) in the hairy skin of the rat. This effect was dose-dependent and sequence-specific; like BK it was attenuated by sympathectomy and indomethacin pretreatment. However, NGF-OP actions appeared to be distinct from those for BK in that tissue injury was required for NGF-OP to induce hyperalgesia. Furthermore, we found no evidence that NGF-OP bound to or activated BK receptors. Our data indicate that NGF-OP is a distinct mediator of hyperalgesia. We suggest that NGF-OP alters pain threshold in the injured target regions of NGF-responsive neurons.
Genetically epilepsy-prone rats (GEPR-9) and kindled rats have reduced noradrenergic function. In the present study, norepinephrine-stimulated accumulation of inositol phosphates was reduced in cerebral cortex of GEPR-9 and kindled rats when compared to control and non-kindled rats, respectively. No such reduction was found in amygdala/pyriform cortex and hippocampus. These results support the hypothesis that cortical noradrenergic and associated second messenger systems are impaired in epilepsy.
The effect of 6R-tetrahydrobiopterin (R-THBP) on neurotransmitter release was investigated using in vivo brain microdialysis in urethane-anesthetized rats. Perfusion of 1.0 mM R-THBP enhanced the level of dopamine output in dialysates collected from the striatum and frontal cortex. R-THBP perfusion also increased serotonin (striatum) and glutamate outputs (striatum and frontal cortex). Dopaminergic terminals in the striatum were destroyed unilaterally by continuous infusion of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) using an osmotic minipump system. The effect of R-THBP administration on glutamate level was found to be almost completely suppressed in the 6-OHDA-lesioned side of striatum, while in the intact side of striatum the glutamate level in the dialysates responded normally to R-THBP perfusion. These results suggest that R-THBP may play a role in the mechanisms of release of dopamine, serotonin, and glutamate. The functioning of the catecholaminergic system probably mediates the increase in glutamate output due to R-THBP perfusion.

The distribution and function of brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) was studied in the rat stomach and jejunum. BNP-like immunoreactive nerves were found in the myenteric plexus, circular muscle, submucosa and in the crypt region of the jejunum. In the stomach, BNP-like immunoreactivity was found in the myenteric plexus, circular muscle, submucosa and at the base of the gastric glands. In the submucosa, BNP-like immunoreactivity was often associated with blood vessels. In segments of rat jejunum mounted in Ussing chambers, serosal exposure to rat BNP caused a concentration-dependent increase in short circuit current. A maximal effect of 18 +/- 4 microA/cm2 was observed with 1 microM BNP. The effect was quantitatively and qualitatively similar to that elicited by serosal exposure to equimolar atrial natriuretic peptide. The response to BNP was reduced by 88% in chloride free Kreb's buffer, by 83% in tissues pretreated with cinanserin, an antagonist of the 5-HT2 subtype of the 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor, and by 96% in tissues pretreated with tetrodotoxin, a blocker of axonal conduction. These results are consistent with a physiological role for BNP as a neuromodulator of gastrointestinal electrolyte transport.
Reciprocal Ia inhibition from ankle flexors to extensors was studied in five patients with spasticity due to incomplete traumatic spinal cord lesions. Nine healthy subjects were tested as controls. Excitability of the soleus motoneuron pool was estimated by H-reflex testing in the resting state. Ia inhibition was activated by conditioning stimuli to the peroneal nerve. Ia inhibition was detected in all patients tested, the amount of inhibition ranging from 8% to more than 50% of the test H-reflex size. In the control subjects only weak Ia inhibitory effects were present. These findings indicate increased excitability of the Ia inhibitory pathway to ankle extensor motoneurons in patients with spasticity due to spinal cord injury.
We have investigated the possibility that GABAergic neurones may be involved in two ascending projections to the superior colliculus, originating in the nucleus prepositus hypoglossi and in the periparabigeminal area of the mesencephalon, respectively. The projecting neurones of both structures were identified using gold-WGA-apoHRP, a retrogradely transported tracer, injected unilaterally into the superior colliculus. GABA was detected in these neurones by means of immunocytochemical staining. The results show that 25% of the projecting neurones in the prepositus hypoglossi are indeed GABA-immunoreactive. They could exert a direct inhibitory influence on the colliculus. By contrast, only a few (7%) gold-filled-GABAergic cells were detected in the periparabigeminal area, which suggests that this region cannot participate in an important inhibitory afferent system to the colliculus.
Recently, we have reported an associative long-term depression (LTD) of synaptic strength in hippocampal field CA1 that is produced when a low-frequency test input is negatively correlated in time with a high-frequency conditioning input. We have also found that pairing of synaptic activity with postsynaptic hyperpolarization is sufficient to induce LTD. We report here that 2-amino-3-phosphonopropionate (AP3), a selective inhibitor of phosphoinositide (PI) turnover mediated by the metabotropic glutamate receptor, blocks the induction of associative LTD in hippocampal field CA1, but does not impair the induction of LTP. Our data suggest that metabotropic glutamate receptor activation is involved in the induction of LTD.
To determine the central neural pathway which carries splanchnic osmosensory information to vasopressin (AVP) neurons in the hypothalamus, bilateral electrolytic lesions were placed in the ascending catecholaminergic fiber bundle, the locus coeruleus (LC), the locus subcoeruleus (subLC), the lateral parabrachial nucleus (LPB), the caudal periaqueductal gray (PAG) and the median preoptic nucleus (MPO). Six and seven days later, plasma AVP levels, plasma osmolality, mean arterial pressure and heart rate were measured following gastric infusion of hypertonic (598 mosm/kg; 2 ml/4 min) or isotonic (290 mosm/kg) saline in conscious rats with indwelling tail artery catheters and nasogastric tubes. The most effective pontine lesions, which were located in the ventral locus subcoeruleus (vsubLC) approximately 1.0 mm below the LC, decreased the AVP response to hypertonic gastric infusion by 59.7% (P less than 0.05) as compared to sham-lesioned controls. In addition, unilateral vsubLC lesions dramatically reduced the catecholamine innervation of the ipsilateral paraventricular nucleus (PVN), as qualitatively determined with dopamine beta-hydroxylase immunocytochemistry, suggesting that a pathway ascending with catecholaminergic fibers was disrupted. Lesions of the MPO were also very effective, decreasing the AVP response to hypertonic saline infusion by 60.3% (P less than 0.05), suggesting that the MPO is an integral relay center in this pathway. On the other hand, LC, LPB and PAG lesions were ineffective. Systemic plasma osmolality or cardiovascular factors did not mediate the AVP response. These results demonstrate, for the first time, that splanchnic osmotic information is transmitted to the hypothalamus via pathways within the ascending catecholaminergic fiber bundles, the MPO is a relay center where peripheral and central osmotic information may be integrated, and the LC, LPB, and PAG are not part of the splanchnic osmotic pathway.
Administration of the neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) to rat brain causes biochemical and neuroanatomical changes to the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway similar to those observed in Parkinson's disease (PD). Although the cause of PD is unknown, it has been hypothesized that the neurodegenerative changes seen in PD might result from exposure to a neurotoxin. Therefore, strategies for limiting neurotoxin-induced dopaminergic damages, like those caused by 6-OHDA, may be of both clinical and basic interest. Accordingly, we tested the ability of both fetal neural (striatum) and fetal non-neural (liver) tissue implants to protect the rat striatum against the toxic effects of a subsequent intrastriatal injection of 6-OHDA. Non-grafted rats (lesion only) showed amphetamine-induced rotational behavior and a decrease in striatal [3H]mazindol-labeled dopamine uptake sites after 6-OHDA injection. In contrast, the animals grafted with striatum or liver showed no behavioral or biochemical changes. Interestingly, sham-transplanted control animals were also protected against the 6-OHDA-induced toxicity. These results suggest that the resistance of the dopaminergic system against 6-OHDA neurotoxicity observed in grafted and sham-transplanted animals is likely to be related to the surgical procedure itself. This observation points to a possible role for surgery-related events in the clinical improvement described in PD patients who underwent intracerebral transplantation.
Methionine (Met5)-enkephalin has been implicated in autonomic functions involving vagal reflexes within the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS). We examined the light and electron microscopic relationships between neurons containing methionine (Met5)-enkephalin-like immunoreactivity (MELI) and vagal afferents and motor dendrites in the rat NTS. A polyclonal antibody raised against Met5-enkephalin and showing maximal cross-reactivity with this peptide was localized by immunoautoradiography. In the same sections, vagal afferents and motor neurons were identified by histochemical detection of anterogradely and retrogradely transported horseradish peroxidase (HRP). By light microscopy, the MELI was detected in perikarya distributed principally in the dorsomedial, intermediate and parasolitary subdivisions of the NTS. These subnuclei as well as medial and commissural divisions of the NTS also showed: (1) aggregates of silver grains thought to overlie terminals containing MELI, and (2) anterogradely transported HRP in varicose processes. Electron microscopic analysis of the dorsomedial NTS at the level of the area postrema established that MELI was detectable in perikarya, dendrites, and axon terminals. Most of the MELI was associated with large dense core vesicles (dcvs). These opioid terminals formed primarily symmetric synapses on proximal and asymmetric synapses on distal dendrites. Analysis of the dendritic targets of terminals containing MELI revealed that 13/222 were in synaptic contact with dendrites also containing MELI. The remainder of the terminals containing MELI either lacked recognized junctions or formed synapses with unlabeled dendrites. In comparison to the terminals containing MELI in the same series of sections, anterogradely labeled vagal terminals extensively formed asymmetric junctions with distal dendrites and spines. Of the observed anterogradely labeled terminals 6/84 formed synapses with dendrites containing MELI and 3/84 with dendrites containing retrogradely transported HRP. The remainder of the junctions were with dendrites lacking detectable immunoautoradiographic or HRP-labeling. The majority of the recognized synapses on labeled dendrites were at more proximal sites possibly reflecting more limited detection of both MELI and retrogradely transported HRP in smaller dendrites. However, the presence of even a few junctions at proximal sites on dendrites where synaptic transmission is known to be more effective suggests a potentially strong modulation of both opioid and vagal motor neurons by visceral afferents in the NTS. In addition to forming synapses on dendrites, both vagal afferents and terminals containing MELI showed frequent synaptic associations with unlabeled terminals, but not with each other. This finding suggests that the previously demonstrated opiate binding sites on vagal afferents is most likely attributed to other endogenous opiates.
Progressive cerebral deposition of the amyloid beta-protein (A beta P) occurs in Alzheimer's disease and during aging of certain mammals (eg, human, monkey, dog) but not others (eg, mouse, rat). The authors cloned and sequenced a full-length cDNA encoding the beta-protein precursor (beta APP) of cynomolgus monkey. The predicted amino acid sequence of the 695-residue protein is completely homologous to that of human. The alternatively transcribed exons encoding the Kunitz protease inhibitor region in monkey were cloned, showing only a single conservative amino acid substitution in the 751-residue form of beta APP and four substitutions in beta APP770. Immunoblots of cerebral cortex with antibodies to various beta APP domains showed highly similar beta APP polypeptides in human and monkey, in contrast to those of mouse and rat. The latter differences reflect sequence substitutions, transcriptional regulation, and possibly post-translational modifications that may decrease the amyloidogenic potential of rodent beta APP. Immunocytochemistry of aged cynomolgus brain showed A beta P deposited in blood vessels and diffuse and compacted plaques closely resembling those of humans, and the presence of beta-amyloid-associated proteins (alpha 1-antichymotrypsin; complements C1q and C3c) characteristic of A beta P deposits in Alzheimer's disease. The authors' findings demonstrate that cynomolgus monkey and perhaps other primates provide a close animal model for examining the early transcriptional and post-translational processing of beta APP that precedes A beta P deposition during aging and in Alzheimer's disease.
Little sodium appetite is observed when rats are deprived of dietary sodium for several days, presumably because aldosterone secretion minimizes renal sodium losses. However, the present studies indicate that when sodium deprivation is extended to 8 days, a spontaneous sodium appetite results that far exceeds urinary sodium losses during the deprivation period; indeed, adult male rats drank as much 0.5 M NaCl solution as rats ever have been reported to drink rapidly. In contrast, female rats drank much less saline after 8 days of sodium deprivation. Because of this sexual dimorphism in sodium appetite, we also studied NaCl intake in gonadectomized rats after 8 days of sodium deprivation. Both male and female gonadectomized rats drank comparable amounts of saline as intact male rats, but they consumed much less when treated with physiological amounts of estrogen during the sodium-deprivation period. These results indicate that a robust appetite for NaCl can be produced in rats by prolonged sodium deprivation and that estrogen can blunt the induced sodium appetite.
The use of affinity electrophoresis in agarose gels for determination of binding constants for the interaction of antigens with monoclonal antibodies is exemplified for monoclonal anti-human serum albumin and anti-alpha 1-fetoprotein antibodies. The calculated binding constants are verified by independent binding assays. The electrophoretic separation of antigen-antibody complexes of different stoichiometry is also demonstrated. Thus, affinity electrophoresis represents an alternative method for both qualitative and quantitative assessment of antigen-antibody interactions.
We performed sequential positron emission tomography scans with 6-[18F]fluoro-L-dopa in 9 patients with idiopathic parkinsonism and 7 age-matched normal control subjects to compare changes in the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway over time. The mean interval between the scans was 3.3 years for the group with idiopathic parkinsonism and 3.9 years for the control subjects. The scans were analyzed by calculating the ratio of striatal to background radioactivity. Both groups showed statistically significant reductions of striatal uptake over the interval. The rate of decrease was almost identical in each group (p = 0.6). We infer that the usual rate of loss of integrity of the dopaminergic nigrostriatal pathway in patients with idiopathic parkinsonism is slow and the rate of change between the two groups was comparable.
Intramuscular blood vessels were examined with succinate dehydrogenase stain in skeletal muscle biopsy specimens from 6 patients with mitochondrial myopathy, encephalopathy, lactic acidosis, and stroke-like episodes (MELAS). Almost all arteries had large granular deposits with high succinate dehydrogenase activity in their walls. Electron microscopic examination of serial frozen sections of these biopsies showed that the smooth muscle cells of the strongly succinate dehydrogenase-reactive blood vessels contained markedly proliferated mitochondria, characteristic of patients with MELAS. The presence of strongly succinate dehydrogenase-reactive blood vessels in muscle biopsy specimens provides an important clue toward understanding the underlying pathogenetic mechanism in patients with MELAS as well as another approach to the diagnosis of this disorder.
Rats were either trained 21 days after seizure induction or trained before seizure induction and tested 21 days later. The seizures, which induce insidious brain damage within a multitude of diencephalic and subcortical telencephalic structures, were induced by a single injection of lithium (3 mEq/kg sc) followed 24 hr later by pilocarpine (30 mg/kg sc). Compared with controls, the treated rats displayed significant deficits in the acquisition and recall of a radial maze task. Although there was multifocal brain damage, only the amount of damage within the mediodorsal thalamic group was significantly and strongly correlated (rho = .79) with numbers of errors.
The techniques of fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) and cross-linking can provide complementary information concerning the relative separation of a pair of sites. Cross-linking experiments provide an assessment of the distance of closest approach between a pair of sites. FRET measurements, by contrast, yield information about the average distance between the pair of sites. We have taken advantage of hybrid myosins to understand the relationship between distances obtained for a pair of equivalent sites, one on each myosin head, using both FRET (steady-state and time-decay) and cross-linking techniques. The rigid cross-linker, 4-4'-dimaleimidyl-stilbene-2-2'-disulfonic acid (DMSDS), can efficiently cross-link the two myosin regulatory light-chains, each at residue Cys50 of the Mercenaria regulatory light chain (Chantler, P.D., and S. M. Bower. 1988. J. Biol. Chem. 263:938-944), indicating that these sites can come within 18 +/- 2 A of each other. In a complementary set of experiments, steady-state and time-decay measurements using fluorescence donor/acceptor pairs located at these same sites indicate transfer efficiencies of somewhat less than 20%, suggesting an average separation of greater than 50 A between sites (Chantler, P. D., and T. Tao. 1986. J. Mol. Biol. 192:87-99). Here, we present theoretical calculations which show that efficient cross-linking can be achieved readily in dynamic systems such as the heads of myosin, even though the necessary subpopulation of proximate molecules at any instant may be below the detection limits of time-decay-FRET. Therefore, cross-linking experiments can provide important ancillary information about the extent of motions within a marcomolecular system when used in conjunction with FRET.As a corollary, demonstration of extensive cross-linking does not necessarily indicate a static proximity; the mean separation distance should be ascertained by other methods such as FRET.
A simple and sensitive method to measure the expression of phosphoinositol-linked receptors in Xenopus laevis oocytes is described. Oocytes are co-injected with the calcium photoprotein aequorin and RNA, encoding the receptor of interest. The binding of ligand to the expressed receptor increases intracellular calcium that induces the aequorin to luminesce. With an autosampler-equipped luminometer, this provides a fully automated assay of receptor expression of oocytes. This method was applied to cloning the bombesin/GRP receptor expressed in Swiss 3T3 fibroblasts. Oocytes expressing the cloned BR showed up to a 10,000-fold increase in light emission in response to bombesin. The sensitivity of this procedure allowed detection of positive luminometer signals in single oocytes injected with RNA transcribed from cDNA pools as large as 25,000 clones. These findings show the potential value of this procedure for rapid screening of expression libraries, structure/function analysis of receptors and analysis of receptor antagonists or agonists.
1. The pharmacological specificity of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors has been investigated in the rat cerebral cortex by use of radioligand binding and electrophysiological techniques. 2. A comparison was made between a functional assay (NMDA-induced depolarizations in a rat cortical slice preparation) and NMDA-sensitive L-[3H]-glutamate binding in the same brain region and species, to provide accurate affinity values for agonists and antagonists at the NMDA recognition site. 3. In a preparation of crude postsynaptic densities (PSD) from rat cortex, L-[3H]-glutamate bound with high affinity to an NMDA-sensitive population of sites with KD (geometric mean (-s.e.mean. + s.e. mean) = 120 (114, 126) nM, Bmax (mean +/- s.e.mean) = 11.4 +/- 0.8 pmol mg-1 protein and Hill coefficient (mean +/- s.e.mean) = 1.2 +/- 0.17 (n = 3). 4. There was a good agreement between the relative affinities in radioligand binding and electrophysiological assays for the receptor agonists NMDA, N-methyl-L-aspartate, quinolinate and trans-2,3-piperidine dicarboxylate, which are poor substrates of acidic amino acid transport systems. However, agonists which are good substrates for high affinity uptake systems (L- and D-glutamate, L- and D-aspartate, D-aspartate-beta-hydroxamate and L-glutamate-gamma-hydroxamate) were much weaker in the electrophysiological experiments. 5 Schild analysis of the antagonism of NMDA responses in the rat cortical slice by DL-3(2- carboxypiperazin-4-yl)propyl-1-phosphonate, D- and DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate, D- and DL-2- amino- 7-phosphonoheptanoate, D-beta-aspartylaminomethylphosphonate, D-gamma-glutamylglycine and D-Ofaminoadipate (D-AA) indicated a competitive interaction with respective pA2 values of 6.17, 5.62, 5.24, 5.28, 5.20, 5.00, 4.43 and 3.97. 6 In the radioligand binding experiments the same antagonists inhibited only the NMDA-sensitive component of L-[3H]-glutamate binding. IC50 values showed a good correlation with the pA2 values (correlation coefficient = 0.96), with the exception of D-AA which was more potent than anticipated in the binding experiments (IC50 = 9.8 microM).7 These results confirm that NMDA-sensitive L-[3H]-glutamate binding sites represent the NMDA recognition site of the NMDA receptor and provide affinity values for both agonists and antagonists in the rat cerebral cortex, agreeing well with previous estimates in this and other tissues.
The projections of cortical neurons activated by transcranial magnetic stimulation to the motoneurons of lower limb muscles were examined in 22 normal subjects and 14 subjects with cerebral palsy (CP). In normal subjects, magnetic stimulation produced strong facilitation of tibialis anterior (TA) motoneurons, but little or no facilitation of soleus (SOL) motoneurons. This differential facilitation of TA and SOL motoneurons was observed at all stimulus sites on the scalp and all stimulus intensities at which responses could be elicited. In subjects with CP, magnetic stimulation produced almost equal facilitation of TA and SOL motoneurons. This could not be explained by differences in the excitability of the respective motoneuron pools. It is postulated that the projections from the motor cortex to spinal motoneurons are altered in CP. These abnormal projections may contribute to the impairment of voluntary movements experienced by these subjects.
The infralimbic cortex is a visceromotor area of the cortex. To define the thalamic afferents of this area, contrast them with those of the lateral agranular cortex, a somatic motor region, and assess the degree to which the thalamus might coordinate the activity of these cortical areas through axon collaterals, we conducted a retrograde fluorescent double labeling study using bisbenzimide and Fast Blue. Injections into infralimbic cortex resulted in labeling in the mediodorsal, intralaminar, and midline nuclei. Injections into lateral agranular cortex resulted in labeling in the ventrolateral, ventrobasal, ventromedial, and intralaminar nuclei. There was almost no overlap in the thalamic labeling following injections into these two cortical areas. The pattern of labeling following infralimbic injections is discussed in terms of the possible function of the midline thalamic nuclei as a relay for visceral sensory information. The labeling in mediodorsal nucleus following infralimbic cortex argues for including this area in the definition of rodent prefrontal cortex. In addition, the results suggest that the role of the thalamus in coordinating the activity of these cortical areas is minimal.
1. We studied the effects of extracellular sodium on the secretion of vasopressin (VP) and oxytocin (OT) and the efflux of 45Ca from isolated, perfused nerve endings of the rat neurohypophysis (neurosecretosomes). 2. Upon removal of sodium from the perfusing medium, basal release of VP and OT increased by 3.95 +/- 0.23- and 3.71 +/- 0.22-fold, respectively, followed by a decline to about double the levels in normal (150 mM) sodium (P less than or equal to 0.1). 3. Compared to neurosecretosomes perfused in normal (150 mM) sodium, omission of sodium from the medium augmented ionomycin-induced VP and OT secretion by 66 +/- 5- and 20 +/- 3-fold, respectively, and A23187-induced secretion was increased 1.3 +/- 0.4- and 1.3 +/- 0.1-fold (P less than or equal to 0.01 for both ionophores). 4. The inhibition of ionomycin-induced secretion by sodium was concentration dependent (P less than or equal to 0.01 for sodium greater than or equal to 5 mM); the IC50 was about 10 mM sodium for both hormones, and the Hill slope was close to -1. 5. The rate of 45Ca efflux from neurosecretosomes showed 2.7 +/- 0.1-fold stimulation upon increasing sodium from 4.5 to 150 mM (P less than or equal to 0.01). 6. Our results suggest that sodium inhibits basal and stimulated secretion at the nerve terminal, possibly by reducing intraterminal calcium through sodium/calcium exchange.
1. An electrophysiological analysis was made of gill ganglion neurons in Aplysia californica. 2. Gill ganglion neurons behave similarly to neurons in the abdominal ganglion (the central nervous systems; CNS) that are involved with gill withdrawal behaviors. 3. Some gill ganglion neurons are motor neurons much like those in the CNS. 4. Neurons in the gill ganglion are electronically and dye-coupled. In addition, they receive common chemical synaptic inputs from the Int-II network in the CNS. 5. Tactile stimulation of the gill or siphon evokes synaptic activity in gill ganglion neurons whether or not the CNS is present. 6. Pedal nerve stimulation results in synaptic activity in gill ganglion neurons and facilitates synaptic input evoked by tactile stimulation of the gill or siphon. 7. Antibody staining reveals serotonin-like fibers in the branchial nerve close to the gill ganglion but no cell bodies in the ganglion. 8. The gill ganglion may play a role in the mediation of adaptive gill reflex behaviors. It may be one of the loci where the CNS and peripheral nervous system (PNS) interact and form an integrated circuit to mediate gill withdrawal reflex (GWR) behaviors.
Postnatal development of the innervation of the pineal gland in situ as well as the reinnervation of pineal grafts by tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)- and neuropeptide Y (NPY)-immunoreactive nerve fibers were examined using the avidin-biotin-peroxidase immunohistochemical technique. TH-immunoreactive nerve fibers appeared in the pineal gland on the second postnatal day (P2) in both hamsters and gerbils. NPY-immunoreactive nerve fibers first appeared in the pineal gland of gerbils on P2 and in the hamsters on P3. By the seventh postnatal day (P7), the pineal glands of both hamsters and gerbils were richly innervated by TH- and NPY-fibers that appeared as smooth fibers or fibers with sporadic varicosities. By the age of 4 weeks, the innervation of the pineal glands of hamsters and gerbils by TH- and NPY-fibers was fully developed. Abundant TH- and NPY-fibers formed a dense meshwork in the parenchyma of the superficial and deep pineals. The great majority of the fibers bore a large number of varicosities. More NPY-fibers were found in the pineal glands of gerbils than hamsters. NPY fibers were distributed evenly throughout the pineal glands of the gerbil, but they were more often located in the central region of the superficial pineal of the hamster. For the pineal grafts, superficial pineals from neonatal and 4-week-old hamsters were transplanted to different sites in the third cerebral ventricle (infundibular recess, posterior third ventricle) or beneath the renal capsule. The pineal grafts from 4-week-old donors appeared to undergo severe degeneration and eventually disappeared. The pineal grafts from neonatal hamsters, however, successfully survived and became well integrated into their new locations. Abundant TH- and NPY-fibers in the host brain were found surrounding the pineal grafts placed in the third cerebral ventricle, but were only rarely seen entering the parenchyma of the grafts. A few TH-fibers were demonstrated in the renal grafts 4 weeks after transplantation. These studies describe the postnatal development of the innervation of the pineal glands in situ by TH- and NPY-nerve fibers, and demonstrate a lack of reinnervation of cerebroventricular pineal grafts by TH and NPY fibers from adjacent host brain.
L-deprenyl (Eldepryl) added to Sinemet CR in the treatment regimens of seven patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) and therapeutic response fluctuations (RF) allowed a statistically significant reduction in total daily levodopa intake and an increase in the mean interdose interval. Trends were noted towards a reduction in the number of daily &quot;off&quot; periods and an increase in the portion of the waking day spent &quot;on.&quot; Three patients suffered an increase in the intensity of their dyskinesias, and discontinued taking deprenyl. Four patients, all of whom reported improved functioning during &quot;off&quot; periods, have continued taking the combination. Sinemet CR and deprenyl can safely be used together in patients with advanced PD, and the combination may result in improved control of motor fluctuations in selected patients.

Evidence in the past year has provided support for a prominent role of tyrosine phosphorylation in the regulation of neuronal function. The discovery that many novel forms of protein tyrosine kinases and phosphatases are expressed in the brain has revealed that the regulation of tyrosine phosphorylation is highly complex. The recent identification of substrate proteins in the brain for the protein tyrosine kinases and phosphatases has begun to clarify the functional role of tyrosine phosphorylation in the development and modulation of the nervous system.
Mouse cerebellar granule cells showed two types of migration behavior in microexplant cultures. They first migrated along their neurites, showing the typical contact guidance, and then oriented themselves at right angles to the parallel neurites, thus exhibiting the 'perpendicular contact guidance' (Nakatsuji, N. and Nagata, I. 1989 Development, 106, 441-447). To study whether other neurons have the capacity to show similar 'perpendicular contact guidance', we cultured dissociated neuroblasts from various parts of CNS or PNS on parallel neurite bundles. The PNS neuroblasts always extended their processes parallel to the neurite bundle. In contrast, almost all kinds of CNS neuroblasts tested oriented their processes both perpendicular and parallel to the neurite bundles that were all free of glia. Time-lapse video recording revealed that neuroblasts migrated in both directions. Thus, CNS neuroblasts possess the capacity to migrate and extend their processes at right angles to the substratum of heterotypic neurite bundles, which may play an important role in histogenesis of the CNS during development.
In the present study we have used a reverse hemolytic plaque assay and frequency distribution analysis to characterize the insulin secretory response of individual rat pancreatic B-cells in culture. Heterogeneous secretory behavior was observed with a multimodal distribution, suggesting the existence of B-cell subpopulations. Insulin secretion in response to increased extracellular glucose involved both amplification of secretion by individual cells as well as recruitment of previously silent B-cells.
We introduce a new procedure to study kinase substrates in postmortem human brain. By adding purified exogenous protein kinase C (PKC) and the phospholipid phosphatidylserine to brain homogenates in vitro we are able to analyze PKC substrates. A human 53-kDa phosphoprotein is described that appears to be homologous to rat and monkey protein F1 (GAP-43). This identity is based on molecular weight, isoelectric point, phosphorylation by exogenous protein kinase C, enhancement of its phosphorylation by three activators (phospholipids, calcium and phorbol esters), phosphopeptide maps, and cross-reactivity with an antibody raised against rat protein F1. Protein F1 is a PKC substrate associated with synaptic plasticity and nerve growth. Its phosphorylation in rat brain has been correlated with long-term potentiation, an electrophysiological model of memory. In the present study of normal brain, human protein F1 shows an occipitotemporal in vitro phosphorylation gradient. This is consistent with previous observations in nonhuman primates. This gradient is less pronounced in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Changes in the in vitro phosphorylation pattern of three other non-PKC substrates in Alzheimer's disease, including one with characteristics similar to microtubule-associated protein tau, are also reported. These results suggest that protein phosphorylation can be studied in postmortem human brain and that PKC-mediated phosphorylation of protein F1, already linked to synaptic plasticity and memory, may be altered in AD.
Systematic, slow variations of the amplitude and frequency of spontaneous otoacoustic emissions in human ears, occurring over the first 20-30 min of recording, are described. Experimental observations suggest that these variations may arise from a centrally mediated, bilateral influence on the mechanics of the ear.
The purpose of the present study was to characterize the hormonal response of dominant and submissive male hamsters to acute and repeated exposure to social conflict. We found that submissive, but not dominant, males exhibited elevated plasma levels of adrenocorticotropin (ACTH), cortisol, and beta-endorphin (beta-EP) following one exposure to an agonistic encounter. After five exposures to a dominant opponent, submissive males showed smaller, but still significant, elevations in these plasma hormones. After nine exposures, submissive hamsters showed significant elevations only in plasma ACTH and beta-EP. Plasma testosterone was significantly suppressed in submissive males that fought nine times. We conclude that hamsters are a useful species with which to study the neuroendocrine correlates of social behavior.
Social scientists have not integrated relevant knowledge from the biological sciences into their explanations of human behavior. This failure is due to a longstanding antireductionistic bias against the natural sciences, which follows on a commitment to the view that social facts must be explained by social laws. This belief has led many social scientists into the error of reifying abstract analytical constructs into entities that possess powers of agency. It has also led to a false nature-culture dichotomy that effectively undermines the place of biology in social scientific explanation. Following the principles of methodological individualism, we show how behavioral explanations supported by data and theory from the neurosciences can be used to correct the errors of reificationist thinking in the social sciences. We outline a mechanistic approach to the explanation of human behavior with the hope that the biological sciences will begin to find greater acceptance among social scientists.
Effects of gamma-rays and glucose analogs, 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG), 5-thio-D-glucose (5-TG) and 3-O-methyl glucose (3-O-MG) on cellular energy metabolism have been studied in a cell line, derived from a human cerebral glioma, by analysing intermediates of glycolysis and some important nucleotides (ATP, NAD etc.) using the technique of isotachophoresis. Gamma-irradiation induced a transient decrease in the nucleotide levels accompanied by an accumulation of sugar phosphates, the nucleotide levels recovering in a few hours post-irradiation. 2-DG inhibited glycolysis and reduced the nucleotide levels of irradiated as well as unirradiated cells in a concentration-dependent manner both in presence and absence of respiration, whereas 5-TG and 3-O-MG did not show significant effects in the presence of respiration. Reduced energy status observed with 2-DG under respiratory proficient conditions was completely reversed in 2 hr following its removal, whereas such a recovery was not observed in the absence of respiration. These results have important implications in the energy-linked modifications of tumour radiation response using glucose analogs.
A multiparametric investigation of daytime sleepiness was performed in 18 healthy young university students. After undergoing a standard polysomnographic recording at home the night before, all subjects were evaluated by Multiple sleep latency test (MSLT) at 10.00, 12.00, 14.00, 16.00, 18.00. Subjective sleepiness (by using Visual Analogue Rating Scale) and performance tasks (Cancellation Test, Digit Symbol Substitution, Choice Reaction Time, Critical Flicker Fusion Threshold) were also assessed at the same times. Mean daily sleep latency was found to be about 10 minutes, with several individual values in the borderline range (greater than 5 less than 10 minutes). Subjects did not rate themselves as excessively sleepy and there was no correlation between subjective and objective estimates of sleepiness. No consistent correlation was found between subjective-objective sleepiness and results of performance tests. Anxiety trait (Spielberg State Anxiety Trait) did not correlate with sleepiness, but higher anxiety scores were significantly associated with poor performance. These results confirm the occurrence of fairly marked objective drowsiness in healthy young subjects which, however, was not associated with subjective sleepiness and did not adversely affect performance on a variety of tests of CNS function.
Dihydroxyphenylglycol (DHPG) is the main intraneuronal metabolite of the sympathetic neurotransmitter, norepinephrine (NE), and dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA) the immediate product of the rate-limiting step in catecholamine biosynthesis. Simultaneous measurements of regional rates of appearance (spillovers) of NE, DOPA, and DHPG in plasma have the potential to provide unique information about aspects of sympathoneural function but have not actually been measured in humans. In the present study, spillovers of DHPG, DOPA, and NE in the heart, head, leg, and lungs, were estimated from regional extraction fractions of infused [3H]-1-NE, DHPG, and [13C6]DOPA or unlabelled DOPA in humans during cardiac catheterization. There was little cardiac extraction of DHPG (7 +/- SEM 2%) or DOPA (8 +/- 4%) but substantial extraction of NE (69 +/- 4%). Values for cardiac spillover of DHPG and DOPA therefore were similar to values for the arteriovenous increment times plasma flow (arteriovenous production rate), whereas the cardiac spillover of NE averaged about 7-times the NE arteriovenous production rate. Cardiac DHPG spillover (28 +/- 3 ng/min) exceeded the spillovers of NE (9 +/- 2 ng/min) and DOPA (15 +/- 4 ng/min). In contrast, cranial DOPA spillover (159 ng/min) exceeded those of NE and DHPG by 8- and 2-fold and accounted for about 1/10 of the total spillover of DOPA into arterial plasma. In the femoral vascular bed, arteriovenous production rates of NE and DHPG were unrelated to femoral spillovers of NE and DHPG. Arterial and regional clearances of [13C6]DOPA were similar to those of unlabelled DOPA. The results suggest that (1) endogenous NE, DOPA, and DHPG all are released into the bloodstream by the heart, head, and limbs of humans; (2) DHPG and DOPA are not co-released with NE; (3) cardiac arteriovenous production rates of DOPA and DHPG can be used to indicate cardiac spillover of these catechols, whereas the cardiac NE arteriovenous production rate substantially underestimates cardiac NE spillover; and (4) estimates of limb spillover of NE and DHPG require concurrent measurements of the corresponding regional clearances.
Intracellular recording methods were used to examine stereotyped reflexes evoked in the circular muscle of guinea-pig small intestine by distension or repetitive deformation of the mucosal villi, in vitro. Both stimuli evoked compound excitatory junction potentials (EJPs) on the oral side of the site of stimulation and compound inhibitory junction potentials (IJPs) on the anal side. Stimulation of the mucosa by application of 10 microliters of 0.5 M HCl evoked similar reflex responses in the circular muscle. The compound EJPs evoked by mucosal stimulation were depressed, but not abolished, by 1 microM hyoscine, indicating that these responses were partially mediated by release of acetylcholine, as are the equivalent responses evoked by distension. The compound EJPs and the compound IJPs evoked by maintained distension or by repeated mechanical stimulation of the mucosa were transient, lasting in most cases for 3-5 s before the membrane potential returned to resting level. This decline (rundown) occurred in part of the circuit close to the site of stimulation as stimuli applied elsewhere during the period of rundown evoked normal EJPs and IJPs. Mechanical stimuli (brush strokes that deformed the mucosal villi) applied to the mucosa at the site of a maintained distension evoked responses of normal amplitude during the period when the response to the distension had declined to zero. In contrast, during the period when the responses to repetitive mechanical stimulation of the mucosa had disappeared, the reflex responses evoked by distension at the same site were substantially augmented. Chemical stimulation of the mucosa with acid also enhanced the responses to distension.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The effects of high-dose fluoxetine (median 80 mg/day), standard-dose imipramine (median 200 mg/day), and placebo were studied in 706 outpatients meeting DSM-III criteria for major depressive disorder. Baseline psychomotor activity of each patient was prospectively categorized as agitated, retarded, or neither. Rates of occurrence of total and significant (leading to discontinuation) activating adverse events (insomnia, agitation, anxiety, nervousness) and sedating events (somnolence, asthenia) were compared between treatments on an overall basis and within categories of baseline psychomotor activity. Additionally, these rates were compared across baseline psychomotor activity for each treatment. Efficacy was evaluated on an overall basis and with respect to baseline psychomotor activity. There was more total activation with fluoxetine than placebo (p = 0.008), but total activation with fluoxetine (28%) showed only a trend (p = 0.092) for being greater than with imipramine (21%). Discontinuations for activation with fluoxetine (5%) did not differ from imipramine (5%). Sedation and discontinuations for sedation with both fluoxetine and imipramine significantly exceeded placebo. The only drug-drug difference in discontinuations was for sedation where imipramine (11%) exceeded fluoxetine (5%; p = 0.008). Only for the occurrence of sedation with imipramine (47% among patients retarded at baseline) was there a significant association with baseline psychomotor activity (p = 0.021). Both fluoxetine and imipramine were superior to placebo and equal in efficacy in decreasing total Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAM-D), the sleep disturbance HAM-D factor, and the anxiety/somatization HAM-D factor scores. These improvements were independent of baseline psychomotor activity.
Response characteristics of 130 single neurons in the superior olivary nucleus of the northern leopard frog (Rana pipiens pipiens) were examined to determine their selectivity to various behaviorally relevant temporal parameters [rise-fall time, duration, and amplitude modulation (AM) rate] of acoustic signals. Response functions were constructed with respect to each of these variables. Neurons with different temporal firing patterns such as tonic, phasic or phasic-burst firing patterns, participated in time domain analysis in specific manners. Phasic neurons manifested preferences for signals with short rise-fall times, thus possessing low-pass response functions with respect to this stimulus parameter; conversely, tonic and phasic-burst units were non-selective and possessed all-pass response functions. A distinction between temporal firing patterns was also observed for duration coding. Whereas phasic units showed no change in the mean spike count with a change in stimulus duration (i.e., all-pass duration response functions), tonic and phasic-burst units gave higher mean spike counts with an increase in stimulus duration (i.e., primary-like high-pass response functions). Phasic units manifested greater response selectivity for AM rate than did tonic or phasic-burst units, and many phasic units were tuned to a narrow range of modulation rates (i.e., band-pass). The results suggest that SON neurons play an important role in the processing of complex acoustic patterns; they perform extensive computations on AM rate as well as other temporal parameters of complex sounds. Moreover, the response selectivities for rise-fall time, duration, and AM rate could often be shown to contribute to the differential responses to complex synthetic and natural sounds.
Plasma adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) levels increase after acute cold exposure. The purpose of this study was to determine if there were parallel changes in pituitary proopiomelanocortin (POMC) mRNA. Male rats were exposed to cold (3-5 degrees C) or a novel environment for 15 or 30 min. Others were unstressed. POMC mRNAs in frozen sections or dissociated cells were hybridized with a photobiotinylated oligonucleotide probe which was detected in situ by streptavidin-alkaline phosphatase. The percentage of area labeled for POMC mRNA was quantified by the Cue-3 color image analysis system. In frozen sections, 24-fold increases in the percentage of area labeled for POMC mRNA were evident in intermediate lobes (IL) 30 min after stress. No change was seen in anterior lobes (AL). If the ALs were dissociated, a 66-99% increase in percentage of labeled cells was detected 2-3 hr after the cold exposure. Fifteen min of cold stress (CS) also caused a 117% increase in the area of label for POMC mRNA per corticotrope. No change was seen after 30 min. Exposure to a novel environment caused a 73% increase in the percentage of area labeled for POMC mRNA per AL corticotrope and an 11-fold increase in the IL. These results indicate that both AL corticotropes and IL melanotropes are stimulated by acute exposure to cold and novel environments.

Recent trends in neurophilosophy question the validity of conceptions as to the nature of mental states and of &quot;folk psychology&quot; (FP) in general. One school of thought, the &quot;eliminative materialistics,&quot; see FP as a misdirected and scientifically redundant approach to the mind which should be discarded; the &quot;functionalists,&quot; in contrast, consider FP categories, such as belief, to be essential. Between these extremes other neurophilosophical positions affect the way we view mental life. This paper extends the debate to include a consideration of abnormal mental states. It is argued that approaches to phenomenology and psychopathology cannot be immune from any conceptual reconfiguration of normal mental life which might occur. The manner and extent to which psychiatric theory and practice may be affected as a result of these developments is discussed.

To evaluate the potential contribution of circulating kynurenines to brain kynurenine pools, the rates of cerebral uptake and mechanisms of blood-brain barrier transport were determined for several kynurenine metabolites of tryptophan, including L-kynurenine (L-KYN), 3-hydroxykynurenine (3-HKYN), 3-hydroxyanthranilic acid (3-HANA), anthranilic acid (ANA), kynurenic acid (KYNA), and quinolinic acid (QUIN), in pentobarbital-anesthetized rats using an in situ brain perfusion technique. L-KYN was found to be taken up into brain at a significant rate [permeability-surface area product (PA) = 2-3 x 10(-3) ml/s/g] by the large neutral amino acid carrier (L-system) of the blood-brain barrier. Best-fit estimates of the Vmax and Km of saturable L-KYN transfer equalled 4.5 x 10(-4) mumol/s/g and 0.16 mumol/ml, respectively. The same carrier may also mediate the brain uptake of 3-HKYN as D,L-3-HKYN competitively inhibited the brain transfer of the large neutral amino acid L-leucine. For the other metabolites, uptake appeared mediated by passive diffusion. This occurred at a significant rate for ANA (PA, 0.7-1.6 x 10(-3) ml/s/g), and at far lower rates (PA, 2-7 x 10(-5) ml/s/g) for 3-HANA, KYNA, and QUIN. Transfer for KYNA, 3-HANA, and ANA also appeared to be limited by plasma protein binding. The results demonstrate the saturable transfer of L-KYN across the blood-brain barrier and suggest that circulating L-KYN, 3-HKYN, and ANA may each contribute significantly to respective cerebral pools. In contrast, QUIN, KYNA, and 3-HANA cross the blood-brain barrier poorly, and therefore are not expected to contribute significantly to brain pools under normal conditions.
The hydrolysis of phosphoinositides (PI) elicited in cerebellar granule cell cultures by agonists of metabolotropic glutamate receptors, glutmate and quisqualate, was enhanced when the cells were pretreated with concanavalin A (Con-A). A similar effect was produced by wheat germ agglutinin, but not by several other lectins tested. Con-A produced a dose-dependent effect (EC50 = 3 microM) and increased the efficacy but not the potency of the agonists. In contrast, Con-A failed to enhance PI hydrolysis evoked by N-methyl-D-aspartate, kainate, carbachol, the calcium ionophore A23187, or 50 mM K+. The Con-A stimulatory effect was prevented by simultaneous pretreatment with the agonists of ionotropic quisqualate receptors quisqualate, kainate, and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid, but not by the antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquioxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX). CNQX, which did not inhibit quisqualate-stimulated PI hydrolysis in untreated cells, abolished the component of quisqualate response enhanced by Con-A pretreatment. The pretreatment with Con-A also increased the influx of 45Ca2+ in granule cells stimulated by quisqualate. This increase was inhibited by CNQX. Moreover, the potentiation of PI hydrolysis by Con-A, but not the response to quisqualate alone, was abolished in the absence of Ca2+ and Na+. Pretreatment of granule cells with pertussis toxin inhibited PI hydrolysis stimulated by the metabolotropic quisqualate receptor and the Con-A-potentiated response by the same percentage, but Ca2+ influx induced by quisqualate was not affected.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Various mitochondrial DNA abnormalities have been described in patients with encephalomyopathies. We performed Southern blot analysis of skeletal muscle mitochondrial DNA in nine adult patients with clinical features and ragged red fibres suggesting mitochondrial dysfunction. Two patients with encephalomyopathy and two with the MERRF syndrome (myoclonus epilepsy with ragged red fibres) had the normal PvuII restriction pattern of muscle mitochondrial DNA. In contrast, mitochondrial DNA deletion was observed in two of six patients with ophthalmoplegia. One suffered from typical Kearns-Sayre syndrome and the other from isolated external ophthalmoplegia. None of these patients had affected relatives. The detection of mitochondrial DNA deletion in external ophthalmoplegia and their site and size support previously reported data.
In 1952, Wildervanck described the first case of what he styled the cervico-oculo-acoustic (COA) syndrome. This comprises Klippel Feil's (KF) anomaly (congenitally fused cervical vertebrae), congenital sensorineural deafness and Duane's retraction syndrome (deficient abduction with retraction on adduction). Since that original paper, there have been further reports describing this triad, either completely or incompletely. A further case of this syndrome is reported and the first report of MRI head scan findings in this condition is presented. In addition, the origin of mirror movements observed as part of the KF syndrome are discussed.
Four patients with brainstem lesions presented with intractable hiccup and mild to moderate neurological signs. Two of the patients had been initially diagnosed as having a psychogenic cause for their hiccup. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) demonstrated brainstem infarction in one case, tuberculoma at the junction of the medulla oblongata and the cervical spinal cord in two, and a vermian tuberculoma compressing the brainstem in one. The brainstem infarct and one of the medullary tuberculoma were not detected on high resolution enhanced computed tomography. The 3 patients with CNS tuberculoma were free of hiccup 1-5 months after antituberculous chemotherapy. It is proposed that hiccup is not an abnormal reflex, but a myoclonus generated by repetitive activity of the &quot;inspiratory solitary nucleus&quot; due to release of higher nervous system inhibitory/-regulatory control. The neuroanatomical network and the mechanisms underlying the formation of intractable hiccup are outlined. The value of MRI in the initial diagnosis and follow-up of patients with intractable hiccup due to brainstem lesions is emphasised.
1. Recordings were made from the lumbosacral spinal cord in anesthetized macaque monkeys. The inhibitory effects of electrical stimulation of the periaqueductal gray (PAG) and the cerebral cortex or cerebral peduncle (CP) were tested and compared by recording 1) cord dorsum potentials evoked by stimulation of the sural nerve, 2) discharges recorded extracellularly, and 3) membrane potentials recorded intracellularly from spinothalamic tract (STT) neurons at rest (background activity) or in response to stimulation of the sural nerve. 2. Stimulation of the cortex or in the CP preferentially reduced the amplitude of the N1 and N2 waves of the cord dorsum potential evoked by stimulation of the sural nerve, without affecting the N3 wave. Stimulation of the PAG, on the other hand, reduced the amplitude of the N3 wave with little effect on the N1 and N2 waves. 3. The activity of 62 STT neurons was recorded extracellularly. Stimulation of the PAG or the cortex/CP inhibited nonpreferentially the responses of the neurons in the superficial laminae to all afferent inputs. On the other hand, stimulation of the PAG or the cortex/CP inhibited preferentially the responses of most STT neurons in deep layers of the dorsal horn to the small or large afferent input, respectively. 4. Thirty-five neurons were recorded intracellularly. The membrane potential of the neurons averaged -45.5 +/- 10.1 (SD) mV. All neurons were recorded in laminae III-VI; the neurons were of the wide-dynamic-range (WDR) type and had background activity. 5. The inhibitory effects of stimulation of the PAG were tested on all 35 neurons. In 32 of the neurons, stimulation of the PAG evoked a hyperpolarization. The background activity of the neurons was reduced (generally it completely ceased) by the hyperpolarization. In three neurons stimulation of the PAG did not evoke a hyperpolarization and the background activity of the neurons did not change. Nevertheless, the responses of these three neurons to afferent input were inhibited by stimulation in the PAG. 6. The inhibitory effects of stimulating the cortex and/or the CP were tested in 26 of the 35 neurons. Stimulation of the cortex and/or the CP evoked a hyperpolarization in all the neurons, although, in 10 of the 26 neurons, stimulation of the CP also evoked a depolarization. The hyperpolarization generally blocked the background activity of the neurons. 7. The effective stimuli in the PAG and the cortex/CP to evoke a hyperpolarization in STT neurons were short, high-frequency trains of pulses.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. Intracellular recordings were made from 43 spinothalamic (STT) neurons in the lumbosacral region of the spinal cord in anesthetized macaque monkeys. The antidromic responses of these neurons to electrical stimulation of the ventral posterior lateral (VPL) nucleus of the thalamus were examined, and orthodromic responses to electrical stimulation of the sural nerve or to mechanical stimulation of hindlimb skin were recorded to study the electrophysiological features of these neurons and their responses to afferent inputs. 2. The resting membrane potential of the neurons ranged from -26 to -70 mV and the antidromic latency from 2.3 to 9.1 ms. Three of the neurons were located in lamina 1 and were recorded so briefly that only antidromic and spontaneous activity could be studied. The rest of the neurons were located in laminae III-V and were of the wide-dynamic-range (WDR) type. 3. The antidromic action potentials recorded in the somas of STT neurons typically showed a fast rising phase and a short initial segment-somadendritic (IS-SD) delay. After repetitive antidromic stimulation, a progressive elongation of the IS-SD delay, widening of the spike, and failure of the SD spike were observed. 4. The afterpotential of the antidromic action potential consisted of a fast afterhyperpolarization (AHPf) and sometimes a delayed depolarization (DD) and a slow afterhyperpolarization (AHPs). The amplitude and the duration of the AHPs were progressively increased when longer trains of stimuli were used. When the membrane potential was hyperpolarized, the amplitude of the AHPs decreased, suggesting an involvement of K+ and/or Cl- ions. However, the AHPs completely disappeared when the strength of stimulation was adjusted to a level just below the threshold for the axon, suggesting that it was unlikely that recurrent inhibition contributed to the AHPs. 5. The background activity of 32 STT neurons was analyzed. The membrane potential at which spikes were triggered in these neurons was around -42 mV. The width and the rise time of the spontaneous spikes were shorter than those of antidromic action potentials, although the maximum rate of rise was similar. The heights of the spontaneous spikes were slightly shorter than those of antidromic action potentials. 6. Three types of background activity have been observed. One type had a very low average spontaneous rate with a bursting firing pattern, consisting of a few spikes superimposed on a depolarization. This type of activity was seen mostly in lamina I neurons. The second type of activity had a moderate to high spontaneous rate with a fairly constant interval between spikes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Tau, a microtubule-associated protein (MAP) enriched in axons, may have a role in the generation and maintenance of an axonal morphology. Neurons from embryonic day 15 rat cerebellum in culture elaborate two morphologically distinct neurite populations--one with nontapering, elongated axonlike neurites and the other with tapered dendritelike neurites that branch frequently and are selectively stained with antibodies to MAP2. Tau antisense oligonucleotides were utilized in two ways: (1) continuous application of antisense every 24 hr for variable periods of time or (2) application of antisense that was delayed until neurite differentiation was underway. In both cases, 24 hr after the administration of the antisense, tau protein was not detected immunocytochemically. When the antisense was given continuously directly after plating, the neurites persisted as simple minor outgrowths. When antisense was added 72 hr after plating, axonlike neurites were lost, while the remaining neurites continued to grow and increase in complexity. We concluded that the initial establishment of an elongated axonlike neurite is a prerequisite for further neurite maturation; however, once the axon is established, the remaining neurites are able to grow independently and assume a tapered dendritelike appearance.
Fluorescence image analysis using the calcium indicator fluo-3 was used to examine changes in [Ca2+]i induced by glutamate in mixed glia populations cultured from neonatal rat brains. [Ca2+]i responses were correlated with glia type by performing immunohistochemistry using markers specific for type 1 and type 2 astrocytes on the same cells used in the imaging experiments. Glutamate (30-500 microM) induced two markedly different [Ca2+]i responses in the two astrocyte types: the response in type 1 astrocytes consisted of an initial fast transient followed by varying degrees of oscillations, whereas the predominant response in type 2 astrocytes was a slow rise in [Ca2+]i to a more or less sustained and nonoscillatory level. In some type 2 astrocytes, an initial spikelike transient similar to that in type 1 astrocytes was observed; the overall size of the spike, however, was smaller than in type 1 astrocytes. Two agonists for the ionotropic glutamate receptor, alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA) and kainate, elicited a 6-cyano-7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX)-sensitive, external Ca(2+)-dependent, sustained [Ca2+]i rise in type 2 but not type 1 astrocytes. The initial spike in type 2 astrocytes was less dependent on external Ca2+ and not blocked by CNQX. [Na+]i as measured by the Na(+)-fluorescence dye SBFI, was elevated by kainate in both astrocyte types, though the increase was larger in type 2 astrocytes. This increase was reduced by CNQX, suggesting this [Ca2+]i increase was mediated, at least in part, by ionotropic glutamate receptors. The results are discussed in terms of the relative distribution of two classes of glutamate receptors on these two astrocyte types: one, the ionotropic class, is linked directly to an ion channel, and the other, the metabotropic class, induces internal mobilization of Ca2+ via inositol phospholipid hydrolysis.
The involvement of the serotonergic system in spatial learning and a possible correlation between serotonergic modulation of hippocampal electrical activity and spatial learning were studied in rats. Control, partial septal-lesioned (SL), 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (5,7-DHT)-injected (DHT), double-lesioned (5,7-DHT and SL; DL), and DL rats that were transplanted with embryonic raphe grafts into the hippocampus (RG) were tested in a spatial task in a water maze and in an active avoidance shuttle-box task. The responses of the dentate gyrus (DG) to perforant-path (PP) stimulation were examined in the same rats, under the following conditions: (1) priming stimulation of the PP (testing feedback inhibition), (2) priming stimulation of the commissural pathway (testing feedforward inhibition), (3) during repeated stimulation of the PP at 7 Hz (frequency potentiation), and (4) following tetanic stimulation [long-term potentiation (LTP)]. DL, but not DHT or SL, treatment severely impaired the performance of rats in both reference- and working-memory tasks in the water maze. This effect was not seen in the shuttle box. The ability of the DG to exhibit LTP, which was reduced in the DHT and SL rats, was apparently similar to controls in the DL group, DL, but not DHT or SL alone, resulted in a reduction of inhibition in the DG. Both the behavioral deficits and the reduction in hippocampal inhibition were ameliorated by intrahippocampal raphe grafts. These results indicate that the serotonergic innervation of the hippocampus plays a role in spatial learning when the septohippocampal neurotransmission systems are disrupted. Furthermore, these results suggest that restoration of modulation of hippocampal inhibition, by raphe grafts, underlies the behavioral recovery observed in these rats.
Digital image analysis of quantitative autoradiographic (QAR) films is widely used in neuroscience applications. Unless proper precautions are taken when autoradiographic images are converted to digital form they can be inadvertently modified by improper application of the sampling process. This type of modification is termed aliasing error and can cause nonexistent structures to appear in the reconstructed digital image, changing the apparent optical density values of the data. The theoretical basis of aliasing error is presented, along with examples of aliasing from optical resolution test patterns and 2-deoxy[14C]glucose (2-DG) experimental QAR images. We show that aliasing can change the apparent shape of structures, as well as the derived values obtained from QAR experiments. In an example with experimental 2-DG images, aliasing in the cerebellar cortex consistently underestimates tissue radioactivity levels in gray matter (P less than 0.001) and overestimates levels in adjacent white matter (P less than 0.001). Additional data transformations, such as the equations used for blood flow or glucose utilization, can, somewhat unpredictably, accentuate the errors introduced by aliasing. We present a discussion of the autoradiographic image features and electronic design that play a role in introducing aliasing errors and means by which aliasing can be recognized and minimized.
Piezoelectric pumps or &quot;jets&quot; are used in industry for precise dispensing of small volumes of fluids. In the present work we have tested the feasibility of using these piezoelectric devices for dispensing fluids in neurobiological research. In one experiment, 70 picoliter (pl) droplets of histochemical reagent were jetted onto discrete targets of frozen tissue sections, and qualitative and quantitative histochemical studies were done on the small (170 microns diameter) circle of tissue wet by the droplets. In the second experiment, 70 pl droplets of neuroactive drugs were jetted onto brain tissue slices while recording single neurons extracellularly in vitro, and the effects of the drugs were found to vary systematically as a function of the number of drops and the distance between drop application and the recorded neuron. The results indicate that piezoelectric jets could have wide application for dispensing fluids in neurobiological research.
Dystonia refers to a specific clinical entity as well as movements occurring as a result of other syndromes. Dystonic movements are the most commonly misdiagnosed abnormal involuntary movements. Dystonia worsens under emotional or physical stress and with fatigue, lessens with rest, relaxation, hypnosis and sensory tricks, can have diurnal fluctuations and may disappear in sleep. Dystonia is often confused with chorea and myoclonus and considered to be voluntary, that is, psychogenic in origin, in part because of its unusual and varied clinical expression. The neuroscience nurse, cognizant of the natural history, phenomenology and genetics of dystonia, will be able to identify early signs and symptoms, inform colleagues and teach family members who care for children with primary dystonia.
Approximately 50% of patients with Parkinson's disease experience clinical depression. Neurotransmitter deficits in depression and Parkinson's disease suggest a common lesion may be responsible for this high incidence. In addition to similar psychological profiles, the clinical features of Parkinson's disease and depression likewise overlap making the distinction difficult. Differentiating these two diseases is very important, as each is treatable. The neuroscience nurse is in a unique position to evaluate the patient with Parkinson's disease for signs and symptoms of depression.

The concept of Tourette's syndrome as a bizarre and disabling disorder has changed with greater appreciation that this is a spectrum of symptoms and degrees of severity. A thorough understanding of the latest concepts regarding recognition and management is essential for the neuroscience nurse to play a meaningful role as counselor, educator and clinician in the care of these patients and families.
We examined the activity and phosphorylation level of (Na+,K+)-ATPase (E.C. 3.6.1.3) partially purified from normal and epileptic human cortices. Control patients (n = 11) were operated on for a non-epileptogenic deep brain lesion, while epileptic patients (n = 10) were operated on for temporal or frontal originating partial seizures, resistant to medications or secondary to evolutive brain tumors. No differences in the specific activity of microsomal (Na+,K+)-ATPase were observed between the two groups of patients. After partial purification of the enzyme followed by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, (Na+,K+)-ATPase catalytic subunit had a decreased affinity for K+ in human epileptic cortex and lost its sensitivity to phenytoin dephosphorylation. Indirect evidence suggests that those abnormalities of (Na+,K+)-ATPase in human epileptic cortex hold preferentially true for the alpha(-) enzymatic subunit. Those results indicate that, in human epileptic cortex, (Na+,K+)-ATPase and most probably its glial subtype is altered in its K+ regulation and phenytoin sensitivity and could be responsible for ictal transformation and seizure spread.
Partially purified (Na+,K+)-ATPase (E.C. 3.6.1.3.) was investigated in the epileptic cortex of audiogenic DBA/2 mice and in the primary and secondary foci of cats with acute or chronic freeze lesions. No differences in specific activities measured at 3 mM K+ were observed between epileptic and control cortex, except an increase of enzymic activities in the primary focus of acutely lesioned cats. The (Na+,K+)-ATPase catalytic subunits were resolved by SDS-gel electrophoresis and their phosphorylation levels were measured in presence of K+ ions and phenytoin. K+ was more effective in inducing maximal dephosphorylation of (Na+,K+)-ATPase in C57/BL, with identical affinity in the two strains. Phenytoin decreased the net phosphorylation level of (Na+,K+)-ATPase by about 50% in C57/BL mice, but only by 20% in DBA/2 mice. Both K+ and phenytoin dephosphorylating influences were decreased in primary and secondary foci of acutely lesioned cats. Those changes were limited to the alpha(-) subunit. In chronic cats, the dephosphorylating step of the (Na+,K+)-ATPase catalytic subunit recovered a normal affinity to K+, but its sensitivity to phenytoin remained decreased. Those differences in K+ and phenytoin influences on brain (Na+,K+)-ATPases between control and epileptic cortex might be responsible for the ictal transformation and seizure spread. In cats, the alteration of the alpha(-) isoform could mainly affect the glial cells.
Microdialysis is used in vivo for measuring compounds in brain interstitial fluid. The authors describe another application of this technique to the central nervous system, namely microprobe dialysis in the cisterna magna to study the dynamics of ion transport and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) formation in the rat. The choroid plexus is the major source of CSF, which is produced by active transport of Na from blood into the cerebral ventricles. Formation of CSF is directly proportional to the blood-to-CSF transport of Na. By injecting 22Na into the systemic circulation and quantifying its movement into CSF by microdialysis, one can reliably estimate alterations in the rate of CSF formation. The sensitivity of this system was determined by administering acetazolamide, a standard inhibitor of CSF production. Because acetazolamide is known to decrease CSF formation by 40% to 50%, the cisternal microdialysis system in animals treated with this drug should detect a corresponding decrease in the amount of 22Na dialyzed. This hypothesis is supported by the 22Na uptake curves for control versus treated animals: that is, by the acetazolamide-induced average diminution of about 45% in both the rate and extent of tracer accession to dialysate. Bumetanide, a loop diuretic, reduced by 30% the 22Na entry into dialysate. Microprobe dialysis of fluid in the cisterna magna is thus a minimally invasive and economical method for evaluating effects of drugs and hormones on the choroid plexus-CSF system.
With the use of the shock-induced suppression of water drinking in thirsty rats (Vogel's conflict paradigm) and the pentylenetetrazole-enhanced shock-induced suppression of drinking (proconflict paradigm) as animal models to test anxiolytic and antipanic agents, it was possible to distinguish two major classes of benzodiazepines (BZDs) and congeners on the basis of their antiproconflict index (ratio of anticonflict/antiproconflict potencies). Thus, typical low potency BZDs and congeners (diazepam, midazolam, zolpidem, alpidem) with anxiolytic/hypnotic properties have a low antiproconflict index (close to 1), whereas typical high potency BZDs (clonazepam, alprazolam, bretazenil) with reported antipanic properties have an antiproconflict index approximately 10-fold higher. The anticonflict and antiproconflict actions of BZDs with low or high antiproconflict indices are blocked by flumazenil but are potentiated differentially by the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) reuptake blocker 1-2-[bis(trifluoromethyl)-phenyl]-methoxyethyl-1,2,5,6-tetrahydro-3- pyridine-carboxylic acid. Protracted administration of antianxiety and antipanic antidepressant drugs that do not act on GABAA receptors, directly, resulted in anticonflict and antiproconflict effects. However, the efficacy of these drugs is clearly inferior (20-30%) to that of BZDs. These data suggest that specific GABAA receptor subtypes mediate the pharmacological action of BZDs possessing low and high antiproconflict indices.
1. Recordings of membrane current were made in the smooth muscle of short segments of mesenteric vein before or during stimulation with noradrenaline (NA). 2. Small veins (diameter less than 150 microns) when cut into short segments (of length less than 250 microns) had the passive electrical characteristics of short cables both before and during activation with NA. 3. Spontaneous transient depolarizations (STDs) or the underlying inward currents (STICs) were recorded in these preparations. STDs were of myogenic origin as they were not blocked by tetrodotoxin or antagonists to the alpha-adrenoreceptor and persisted after either denervation or disruption of the endothelium. 4. STDs had time courses similar to the underlying currents and were generally slow compared to the membrane time constant of the short segments. 5. STDs and the underlying currents showed large variability in frequency and amplitude both within and between short segments. Currents were typically less than 0.3 nA, were characteristic in shape, had half-durations normally in the range 0.1-0.7 s and reversed at about -25 mV. 6. STDs persisted, but at markedly reduced frequencies, after exposure (3-10 min) to a solution in which cobalt ions had been used to substitute for Ca2+. STDs were also substantially suppressed by exposure to low-chloride solution. 7. Caffeine induced excitatory and inhibitory conductances. An initial component of the caffeine-induced responses showed similar voltage dependence to STDs and was also suppressed by exposure to low-chloride solution. 8. NA, through activation of alpha-adrenoreceptors, caused a sustained depolarization or inward current (under voltage clamp) with considerable membrane potential or current noise often in the form of agonist-induced spontaneous transient depolarizations (ASTDs) or currents (ASTICs). There were marked increases in amplitude and frequency of ASTDs with increase in NA concentrations. 9. ASTDs appeared to be generated within the smooth muscle as they were activated in preparations which had been denervated or in which the endothelium had been disrupted. 10. Except for the pathway of activation, ASTDs were indistinguishable from STDs having half-durations in the same range (0.1-2 s with the majority less than 0.7 s). The underlying currents again showed large variation in amplitude (typically less than 0.3 nA; maximum recorded 0.9 nA). They reversed at about -25 mV, could still be elicited in cobalt solution (but at reduced intensity for long exposures to this low-Ca2+ solution) and were reduced by long term exposure to low-chloride solution.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Space motion sickness is a significant operational concern in the American and Soviet space programs. Nearly 70% of all astronauts and cosmonauts are affected to some degree during their first several days of flight. It is now beginning to appear that space motion sickness like terrestrial motion sickness is the consequence of multiple etiological factors. As we come to understand basic mechanisms of spatial orientation and sensory-motor adaptation we can begin to predict etiological factors in different motion environments. Individuals vary greatly in the extent to which they are susceptible to these different factors. However, individuals seem to be relatively self-consistent in terms of their rates of adaptation to provocative stimulation and their retention of adaptation. Attempts to relate susceptibility to motion sickness during the microgravity phases of parabolic flight maneuvers to vestibular function under 1G and 0G test conditions are described.
1) To gain insight into the complex pathophysiology of epilepsy in the human brain, the synthesis of information derived from various animal models representing appropriate components of human epileptic seizure is required. For epileptic seizure propagation, the availability of anatomical pathways and their physiological connectivity according to the site of seizure origin must be considered. The reason for the notion of a preferential nature of certain pathways over others remains unknown but may be due, in part, to past history and the participation of a genetically-determined differential susceptibility. In this context, the following factors need to be considered: a) the significance of use-dependent functional/structural change of the neuronal system, b) the importance of understanding the divergent nature of neuronal connectivity, the potential role of genetic predisposition, and c) the morphological difference which exists according to ascending phylogenesis and hence the presumable functional difference across the species. 2) The corpus callosum is the major and rapid route of transhemispheric transmission of epileptic seizure in man. In the case of seizure of temporal lobe origin, its transhemispheric transmission may use the temporalipsilateral frontal through the corpus callosum to the contralateral frontal and then to the contralateral temporal limbic system. In contrast, the significance of the anterior commissure and the hippocampal commissure in man is debatable since both of these pathways have a very definite regressive tendency according to ascending phylogenesis. The specific reason why these pathways are sometimes used in a minority of temporal lobe seizure cases remains unknown.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Previous studies have shown that epidermal growth factor (EGF) stimulates the release of adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) in vivo and in vitro by amplifying the effects of corticotropen-releasing hormone (CRH). The aim of the present studies was to compare responses to EGF by corticotropes in an unseparated culture with those in cultures enriched to 90-93% ACTH-beta-endorphin cells (by counterflow centrifugation). Since EGF binding sites had been identified on growth hormone (GH) or prolactin (PRL) cells (9), the enriched corticotrope cultures were studied to learn if the abundant GH or PRL cells found in unseparated cultures were required to mediate the actions of EGF. In unseparated cultures, EGF (1 or 10 ng/ml) or CRH (1-5 nM) increased the percentages of ACTH cells from 9.5 to 15% and the percentage of cells labeled for POMC mRNA from 7.5 to 12% of the population. In enriched cultures, CRH and EGF increased the percentages of cells labeled for POMC mRNA from 70% to 90-94% of the population. EGF alone stimulated ACTH secretion in both the unseparated and enriched cultures by 1.2- to 2.2-fold. EGF amplified the effects of CRH by 30-40% in both unseparated and enriched cultures. In unseparated cultures grown in serum-free media, however, 1 ng/ml EGF did not amplify the effects of CRH and 10 ng/ml EGF partly abolished the CRH stimulation. In contrast, enriched cultures grown in serum-free media continued to respond to the growth factor. the secretory responses of corticotropes in enriched cultures were similar to those of their counterparts in the unseparated cultures. This indicates that the reduction in numbers of GH and PRL cells in the enriched cultures does not interfere with EGF actions on the corticotrope population.
Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), the rate-limiting enzyme in catecholamine biosynthesis, has been reported to be present in interneurons in human cerebral cortex. In this study, immunocytochemical analysis using monoclonal anti-TH antibodies was employed to demonstrate the specific expression of tyrosine hydroxylase protein by a distinct subpopulation of nonpyramidal neurons in human neocortex. These neurons were present in greatest density in layer VI of limbic and higher order association regions. The presence of TH gene products in human neocortex was confirmed by the demonstration, using both in situ hybridization histochemistry and polymerase chain reaction methodology, that the mRNA for human TH is expressed in human neocortex. These findings raise important questions regarding the role played by these TH-containing neurons in human neocortical function.
The order of secretion of newly synthesized and older bioactive peptides was investigated using primary rat intermediate pituitary melanotropes, which synthesize, store, and secrete peptides derived from pro-ACTH/endorphin (PAE; also POMC). PAE-derived peptides produced by the cells were biosynthetically labeled by incubating the cells with radioactive amino acids at various times preceding the period during which secretion was examined; secreted and cellular peptides were characterized and quantitated by immunoprecipitation, using affinity-purified antibodies to selected regions of PAE, followed by polyacrylamide gel electrophoretic analysis. Release in the absence of secretagogues (basal or constitutive release) was compared to release in the presence of maximally effective levels of 8-bromo-cAMP and BaCl2 (stimulated or regulated release). Both cell types showed short-lived preferential basal release of newly synthesized and not fully mature peptides (less than 2-3 h old). Conversely, the cells showed preferential stimulated secretion of older peptides. A process of maturation occurred, taking 2-4 h, after which the secretion of newly synthesized and older peptides in response to secretagogues was nearly indistinguishable for the smallest product peptides. The data support a model of gradual processing of peptides from precursors into smaller products and maturation from molecules only available for basal release into peptides available for stimulated secretion as well as for basal release. Basal secretion was found to include mature peptides as well as intermediates and precursor molecules. The data do not support the existence of any preferential regulated secretion of newly synthesized peptides.
gamma-Aminobutyric acid (GABA)-activated Cl- currents in neonatal rat cortical neurons and in cultured cells engineered for the expression of specific molecular forms of the GABAA receptor alpha, beta, and gamma subunits, were recorded with the patch-clamp technique in the whole-cell configuration. The effects of various allosteric modulators of GABAA receptors were determined. Diazepam and clonazepam showed greater efficacy as positive modulators of GABA-elicited currents in alpha 2 beta 1 gamma 2 or alpha 3 beta 1 gamma 2 receptors than in alpha 1 beta 1 gamma 2 or alpha 5 beta 1 gamma 2 receptors or in cortical neurons. Alpidem was more efficacious at alpha 1 beta 1 gamma 2 or alpha 2 beta 1 gamma 2 receptors than at alpha 1 beta 1 gamma 2 or alpha 5 beta 1 gamma 2 receptors or in cortical neurons. Conversely, zolpidem was equally efficacious for all these receptors except for alpha 5 beta 1 gamma 2. Both imidazopyridines (alpidem and zolpidem) were virtually ineffective at modulating the GABA response of alpha 5 beta 1 gamma 2 receptors and in almost all the receptors assembled from alpha 1, alpha 2, alpha 3 or alpha 5 subunits together with beta 1 and gamma 1 subunits. The beta-carboline derivatives methyl-6,7-dimethoxy-4-ethyl-beta-carboline-3-carboxylate (DMCM) and methyl-beta-carboline-3-carboxylate (beta-CCM) elicited a positive allosteric modulation of alpha 1 beta 1 gamma 1 or alpha 2 beta 1 gamma 1 receptors, whereas they acted as negative allosteric modulators at nearly all other receptors tested, as they do in cortical neurons. Although the positive allosteric modulation by beta-carbolines never exceeded a doubling of the GABA response, DMCM was more efficacious at alpha 1 beta 1 gamma 1 receptors and beta-CCM was more efficacious at alpha 2 beta 1 gamma 1 receptors. DMCM was inactive at alpha 3 beta 1 gamma 1 receptors, whereas beta-CCM was virtually inactive at alpha 5 beta 1 gamma 1 receptors. The benzodiazepine 4'-chlorodiazepam, which is a negative modulator resistent to flumazenil inhibition, acted at all the various GABAA receptors that contained a gamma subunit.


Cytoskeletal proteins--neurofilament polypeptides, tubulin and actin--are transported along axons by slow transport. How or in what form they are transported is not known. One hypothesis is that they are assembled into the cytoskeleton at the cell body and transported as intact polymers down the axon. However, recent radiolabeling and photobleaching studies have shown that tubulin and actin exist in both a mobile phase and a stationary phase in the axon. Consequently, it is more likely that cytoskeletal proteins move along the axon in some form of transport complex and are assembled into a cytoskeleton which is stationary. In this overview we discuss these topics and consider the evidence for the existence of transport complexes associated with slow axonal flow. Such evidence includes the slow transport of particulate complexes containing tubulin and neurofilament polypeptides along reconstituted microtubules in vitro, and the coordinate slow transport of actin with actin-binding proteins in vivo.
We have found that a CNTF-like molecule which supports ciliary and sympathetic neurons is not retrogradely transported in either sympathetic or parasympathetic nerves. The factor has an apparent Mr of 21 kDa, a pI of 4.9, and is present in peripheral nerves and smooth muscle of the chick. Our experiments indicate that CNTF-like activity does not accumulate on the distal side of ligated chick expansor nerves. In contrast, there is a clear accumulation of NGF. The activity further differs from NGF in that it is not removed from a smooth muscle of the chick wing by innervating sympathetic fibers. Transection of these fibers does not lead to an accumulation of ciliary activity in the expansor secundariorum muscle, suggesting that neurons do not actively deplete the muscle of factor by retrograde transport. Finally, recombinant CNTF or semi-purified preparations of CNTF-like activity labelled with 125I were not transported to the ciliary ganglion of chicks following injection of biologically active material into the eye. Our results suggest either that endogenous CNTF does not act as a survival factor in vivo, or that retrograde transport is not a property inherent to all neuronotrophic molecules.
In cytosol, cyclic AMP stimulated phosphorylation of microtubule associated protein-2 (MAP-2) increased from 2 days to adult in proportion to the increase in the concentration of MAP-2. By contrast, the calmodulin stimulated phosphorylation of MAP-2 decreased in proportion to the decrease in the concentration of calmodulin stimulated protein kinase II (CMK II). Similarly, the cAMP stimulated phosphorylation of the site on synapsin I labeled by the cAMP stimulated protein kinase (PKA) changed little during development whereas the calcium/calmodulin stimulated phosphorylation of the CMK II site decreased dramatically in proportion to the decrease in the concentration of CMK II. The decrease in the concentration of CMK II which occurs in cytosol during synapse maturation was also observed in taxol polymerised microtubules and the effects of the change in the relative concentrations of CMK II and PKA on the phosphorylation of MAP-2 and synapsin I in this fraction were similar to that observed in the cytosol. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that the developmental changes in phosphorylation of endogenous substrates by PKA is controlled largely by changes in the concentration of those substrates, whereas the concentration of CMK II is limiting so that the developmental changes in the phosphorylation of endogenous substrates by CMK II are a function of the concentration of CMK II itself as well as the concentration of endogenous substrates. Some possible functional consequences of this during synapse maturation are discussed.
Muscarinic synaptic activation is known to be involved in cortical arousal as well as learning. Although simple increases in the electrical responsiveness of neurons might be the basis of arousal, the linkage of muscarinic transmission to the synaptic plasticity that might underlie learning is lacking. Most models of synaptic plasticity involve postsynaptic Ca2+ changes as a trigger for subsequent processes. We imaged muscarinic effects on free Ca2+ accumulation during intracellular recordings from CA3 pyramidal neurons in the guinea pig hippocampal slice. Muscarinic activation, either by repetitive stimulation of cholinergic fibers or by bath-applied carbachol, strongly increased intradendritic Ca2+ accumulation during directly evoked repetitive firing, in part by blocking a Ca(2+)-dependent K+ conductance. The effects of repetitive stimulation of cholinergic fibers were enhanced by the acetylcholine-esterase blocker eserine and blocked by the muscarinic antagonist atropine. These findings demonstrate a novel muscarinic reinforcement of Ca2+ changes during excitation, which are probably significant for synapse modification.

Benzodiazepines are among the most widely used therapeutic drugs because of their sedative and anxiolytic effects mediated through modulation of GABAA receptors. Another recognition site for these drugs, termed the peripheral-type (or mitochondrial) benzodiazepine receptor, is much more prevalent throughout the body for which a physiologic and pharmacologic role has just been found. This drug receptor plays a central role in the regulation of steroidogenesis by mediating the rate-limiting step in this biosynthetic pathway, which is transport of cholesterol to inner mitochondrial membranes. Although once considered by many to be an insignificant drug-binding site because a specific function remained elusive for many years, peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptors are now viewed with renewed interest because certain benzodiazepines such as diazepam may exert secondary effects on steroid production under appropriate physiologic conditions. Elucidation of this receptorial role should initiate new studies to examine in more detail the pharmacologic profile of drugs that bind to these sites and provides a novel target for the treatment of certain types of endocrine disorders.
Mature rat spinal cord cDNA libraries constructed in lambda gt10 and lambda ZAPII were screened with an oligonucleotide probe (39 mer), and 4 clones that possess DNA-inserts encoding a glycine receptor subunit were obtained. The cloned cDNAs were used to reconstruct the nucleotide sequence of the full-length open reading frame consisting of 1350 base pairs (bp) as well as the 5'-(184 bp) and 3'-(591 bp) non-coding regions. Synthetic RNA transcribed in vitro from the glycine receptor cDNA induced Xenopus oocytes to synthesize functional glycine receptor that generated large Cl- currents. The electrophysiological properties of the wild-type receptor and some mutant receptors produced by site-directed mutagenesis were analyzed.
Phosphatidylcholine (PC) metabolism in bovine adrenal chromaffin cells has been studied in vivo with 100 MHz 13C NMR spectroscopy. The incorporation of 13[CH3]choline was examined in cells embedded in 1% agarose strands and perfused at 37 degrees C. The pattern of 13C NMR spectroscopy. The incorporation of [13CH3]choline incorporation into PC of suspension cultures of chromaffin cells. The chemical shifts of labelled carbons in [13CH3]choline before and after their incorporation into PC are identical (ca 56.4 ppm). Incorporated [13CH3]choline can be released from the cells by phospholipase D which reduces the cellular PC signal by greater than 85%, indicating that a major fraction of the labelled PC is on the external membrane surface. This application of NMR spectroscopy provides a basis for direct measurement of the in vivo metabolism of PC in functioning adrenal chromaffin cells.
In situ hybridization has become one of the most powerful tools for localizing specific gene products in a tissue. Labelled molecular probes are used on tissue sections or on cells for localization of their hybridization sites. In situ hybridization makes it possible to define the spatial and temporal distribution of specific genes. The use of probes dually labelled, or the combined use of a molecular probe and labelled antibodies provides unprecedented opportunities to examine gene expression in individual cells. In addition, the quantification of gene products can shed light on regulation of gene expression at the cellular level.
The effects of the NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801 [(+)-10,11-dihydro-5-methyl-5H-dibenzo [a,d]-cyclohepten-5,10 imine hydrogen maleate] on learning and memory were assessed using a water maze. The maze was a traditional type of maze with alleys and choices between various paths, but set inside a pool of water to a height of 25 cm. Different mazes could be configured by altering the arrangement of open vs. closed doors. Both the time required to reach an out-of-the-water exit platform and the errors made during the swim from start to finish were recorded. Learning was assessed during the first 10 to 20 trials in a new maze configuration, while memory was tested after the maze was well learned. Three experiments, some with several phases, were performed. These experiments compared the effects of 0.1 mg/kg of either (+)-MK-801, or (-)-MK-801 vs. saline on learning new maze configurations as well as swimming well-learned mazes. Neither of the MK-801 isomers impaired performance of a previously learned maze. (+)-MK-801 clearly slowed learning of new mazes as measured by both maze completion time and errors committed, while (-)-MK-801 had a significant but smaller effect on learning. Rats given (+)- or (-)-MK-801 (0.1 mg/kg) for 16 days while learning one maze and then challenged to learn a new maze without drug administration performed no differently on the new maze than controls, suggesting that the acute effect of MK-801 on learning is not long lasting.
Axotomy of giant lamprey (Petromyzon marinus) central neurons (anterior bulbar cells) close to their somata results in ectopic axon-like sprouting from the dendritic tips. Such sprouts first appear as swellings at the tips of a small subset of dendrites 2-3 weeks after &quot;close&quot; axotomy. We report here that immunocytochemical examination of these swellings reveals a structure and composition that differs from that of conventional growth cones; incipient sprouts contain many highly phosphorylated neurofilaments (NFs), little tubulin, and virtually no stable (acetylated) microtubules (MTs). The dendrites of anterior bulbar cells after close axotomy also show pronounced changes in NF protein and tubulin staining patterns prior to the emergence of sprouts from the dendrites. The amount of tyrosinated tubulin increases greatly; this rise is tightly coupled to the appearance of highly phosphorylated NFs and the loss of nonphosphorylated NFs in the dendrites. Acetylated tubulin is generally reduced after close axotomy and is selectively lost from dendrites that gave rise to sprouts. These changes indicate that an invasion of the dendrites by phosphorylated NFs may be linked to the destabilization of dendritic MTs, and in some dendrites this may lead to a marked loss of stable MTs, which is correlated with the emergence of NF-filled sprouts from the dendritic tips.

Enhancing the time-honored bonds between the neurosciences and neurosurgery is essential. The basic neurosciences are the foundation upon which fundamental scientific training and clinical research depend. Together these form the resource essential to improving the public health. Both now face severe restraints in the support systems available to them, limited degrees of reciprocity, and uncertain human resources. It is critical that the neurosurgical and neuroscience communities renew and enhance their joint commitment and trust so that both can more effectively work together to secure resources appropriate to maintaining the cutting edge on behalf of the public health.

Cell markers are membrane-associated components of the cellular wall or intracellular substances which are specific for the cell types of any tissue. Markers of the major cell types of the central nervous system (CNS) essentially are the components of the cytoskeleton (microtubules, intermediate filaments), several intracytoplasmic enzymes, and specific components of myelin (myelin proteins, myelin-associated glycoproteins, lipids). In this review the fundamental characteristics of specific CNS markers (astroglia, oligodendroglia, neurons) are discussed and examples of marker application in human and veterinary medical neurosciences are presented.
Despite extensive information on many aspects of peptide neurobiology, the links between the behavioral effects of neuropeptides and their actions at the cellular and molecular levels are not fully understood. A pair of insect neuropeptides, the cardioacceleratory peptides (CAPs) of the tobacco hawkmoth Manduca sexta, provide an opportunity to elucidate these links. The CAPs are involved in the modulation of four distinct types of behavior during the life cycle of this moth. Functional differences at these four developmental periods can be explained by stage-specific changes in target sensitivity and the distribution of the CAP-containing neurons, including a set of peptidergic neurons that alter their transmitter phenotype postembryonically. Studies show that inositol 1, 4, 5-trisphosphate (IP3), linked to intracellular Ca2+, mediates the response of the cells to the CAPs. This preparation thus provides additional insights into the mechanisms underlying the action of multifunctional neuropeptides.
Social and cultural philosophy in the guise of various forms of materialism has long been the basis on which Soviet science (including neuroscience) is founded. Neuroscientific research developed within a number of 'schools', each associated with the doctrine of their founders and concentrated in a few large cities. Currently, central governmental funding covers research within state neuroscience programmes.
Six variant viruses of the JHMV strain of murine coronavirus with large (cl-2, CNSV, DL and DS) or small (sp-4 and JHM-X) S proteins were compared in terms of their relative neurovirulence in weanling Lewis rats. Inoculation of various doses of the variants revealed that the cl-2 and CNSV were highly virulent and DL and DS were low-virulent, while sp-4 and JHM-X were avirulent. Pathological examination of rats infected with variants cl-2, DL and sp-4 showed that the cl-2 and DL induced severe and mild acute encephalomyelitis, respectively, while no lesions were observed in the central nervous system of rats infected with sp-4. Virus growth and distribution of antigen in rat brains correlated strongly with neurovirulence. These results suggest that S protein plays a role in neurovirulence in rats. In addition, these variant viruses were shown to be useful tools for further analysis of JHMV neurovirulence in animals as well as in cultured cells.
The effects of stray light upon retinal pigment densitometric measurements were evaluated by adding specified amounts of stray light to fundus reflections. To allow for interpolations and extrapolations, a computer simulation was devised and validated against the empirical data. The results demonstrate that measured density is greatly decreased by increases in stray light but the time constant of pigment regeneration is little affected.
Recent development of fluorescence calcium indicators and image processing devices made it possible to measure temporal and spatial change in intracellular calcium concentration in neuronal cells in culture and also in brain slice preparation. In this technical note the characteristics, applicability and problems of the method are described.
Cellular fractionation of GTPase activating protein (GAP) activity using bovine cerebral cortex revealed that about half of GAP activity was found in membrane fraction. GAP activity of membrane was not solubilized with 0.5% (v/v) triton X-100 and was immunoprecipitated with antibody against carboxy-terminus of neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) gene product. In contrast, soluble GAP activity was precipitated with antibody against GAP but not with anti-NF1. These results suggest that NF1 gene product is a GTPase activating protein toward ras p21 with completely different intracellular distribution from that of GAP.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most frequent cause of dementia, although no genetic abnormality has been identified. Recent studies have elucidated the molecular defect in AD, including the abnormal deposition of amyloid beta peptide (beta/A4) in senile plaques of affected individuals. Normal brain contains the enzyme, APP secretase, which cleaves inside the beta/A4 portion of the precursor protein (APP); abnormal processing of APP occurs in AD brain. Until now, no evidence has been provided that APP secretase is an intracellular proteinase. We have now prepared two synthetic substrates of APP secretase, both of which contain the cleavage point and are much more sensitive than substrates previously available to identify APP secretase. Using these substrates, we found an intracellular proteinase that has APP secretase activity. This proteinase has been identified as cathepsin B.
Vertical and horizontal vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) eye movements were recorded in alert cats during horizontal rotation in total darkness before and after a 2 h vestibulo-ocular reflex direction adaptation procedure. Adaptation stimuli were whole body horizontal vestibular rotation coupled to synchronous vertical optokinetic motion. The waveform of the adaptation stimuli was either a sinusoid at 0.05, 0.1, 0.25, 0.5, or 1 Hz, or a sum of sinusoids containing 0.2, 0.3, 0.5, 0.7, 1.1, and 1.7 Hz. Exposure to single frequency stimuli produced adaptive vertical VOR with a gain that was greatest near the training frequency; adaptive VOR phases were advanced below, accurate at, and lagged above the training frequency. Exposure to the multifrequency waveform produced a uniform modest increase in gain across frequencies, with accurate adaptive VOR phase.
unc-104 encodes a novel kinesin paralog that may act as a microtubule-based motor in the nervous system. Neuronal cell lineages and axonogenesis are normal in unc-104 null mutants, but axons have few synaptic vesicles and make only a few small synapses. By contrast, neuron cell bodies have surfeits of similar vesicles tethered together within the cytoplasm. Based on behavioral and cellular phenotypes, we suggest that UNC-104 is a neuron-specific motor used for anterograde translocation of synaptic vesicles along axonal microtubules. Other membrane-bounded organelles are transported normally.
An investigation was made of the effect of presynaptic inhibition on paired-pulse facilitation (PPF) of group Ia afferent excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs). The main finding from this study was that PPF was enhanced during presynaptic inhibition of compound Ia EPSPs. This increase in PPF is identical to that seen at other synapses when the probability of transmitter release is decreased by lowering the extracellular calcium or raising the extracellular magnesium concentration, providing unequivocal evidence that presynaptic inhibition is associated with a decrease in the probability of transmitter release. Further, by analogy with the effects of reduced calcium influx on PPF at other synapses, the results support the idea that presynaptic inhibition is associated with reduced calcium influx into nerve terminals.
The protein phosphatase inhibitor okadaic acid was used to investigate the protein phosphatases involved in the endogenous dephosphorylation of proteins in intact synaptosomes. Despite the fact that the calcium-dependent protein phosphatase (calcineurin) is most concentrated in synaptosomes and accounts for approximately 0.3% of synaptoplasmic protein, the majority of the dephosphorylation activity under both basal and depolarisation conditions is due to protein phosphatase type 1 (PP1) and/or protein phosphatase type 2A (PP2A). Nevertheless our results do suggest that calcineurin is active in synaptosomes and has 2 effects: a rapid, direct dephosphorylation of a limited range of substrates and an indirect activation of PP1 presumably by dephosphorylation of protein phosphatase 1 inhibitor-1.

Quantitative autoradiography was used to examine the effect of lesioning a well-defined glutamatergic system (retinofugal fibres) on [3H]forskolin binding to Gs-adenylate cyclase and [3H]PDBu (phorbol-12,13-dibutyrate) binding to protein kinase C (PKC) in the rat visual system at 1, 5, 10 and 20 days after unilateral orbital enucleation. Local cerebral glucose utilisation was determined in the same animals using quantitative [14C]2-deoxyglucose autoradiography. At 5 days post-lesion, [3H]forskolin binding sites were significantly reduced in the visually-deprived superior colliculus (-14 +/- 1%) and dorsal lateral geniculate body (-8 +/- 2%), and these reductions persisted until 20 days post-lesion. There were no significant alterations in the amount of [3H]PDBu binding in any region in the visually-deprived hemisphere following enucleation. Function-related glucose use was significantly reduced throughout the visual pathway after enucleation. In this study, there was no conclusive evidence of plastic modifications of second messenger systems in the rat visual system despite a general depression of visual function following lesion of retinofugal fibres.
NPC 12626 (2-amino-4,5-(1,2-cyclohexyl)-7-phosphonoheptanoic acid), a newly developed drug which crosses the blood-brain barrier, is a competitive antagonist of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. In Experiment I, the effects of NPC 12626 on perforant path - dentate gyrus LTP were tested. NPC 12626 (100 mg/kg, i.p.), injected 150 min prior to tetanization, prevented potentiation of the EPSP slope and population spike amplitude. EPSP-spike potentiation was also prevented. Post-tetanus administration was ineffective. In Experiment II, mice were injected with NPC 12626 (35 mg/kg, i.p.) or saline 35 min prior to spontaneous alternation testing. NPC 12626 significantly decreased alternation rates, but did not affect turn bias or the mean delay between arm entries. This pattern of results may reflect impaired learning or memory. In Experiment III, mice were tested on an inhibitory avoidance task. NPC 12626 (35 mg/kg, i.p.), administered before but not after training, significantly impaired performance. When the drug was administered before training as well as before testing, performance was similarly impaired, indicating that the observed deficits were not attributable to state-dependent learning. Pre-test injections were ineffective. Overall, these results support the hypothesis that some forms of learning require the participation of NMDA receptors and that this participation is largely limited to acquisition processes. In addition, these results point to the utility of peripherally administered NPC 12626 as a tool with which to examine the involvement of NMDA receptors in LTP and learning.
To identify a suitable donor cell population for gene therapy applications to the central nervous system, primary fibroblasts isolated from skin biopsies and maintained in culture are employed as autologous cells for intracerebral grafting within the adult rat striatum. Results from the present investigation reveal that cultured primary skin fibroblasts cease to proliferate once they reach confluence; these cells are thus contact inhibited in vitro. Following implantation within the striatum, the volume of the primary fibroblast grafts, stained immunohistochemically for fibronectin, does not differ significantly at 3 and 8 weeks. The graft size is dependent on the density of the cell suspension, but not dependent on either the number of passages the cells are taken through in culture prior to grafting or on the postoperative survival period. Ultrastructural evidence reveals that at 8 weeks the grafts are composed primarily of collagen and fibroblasts with rough endoplasmic reticulum and vesicles. Reactive astrocytic processes and phagocytic cells are also present in the grafts. The grafts are extensively vascularized with capillaries composed of nonfenestrated endothelium; intercellular junctions are evident at sites of apposition between endothelial cells. It is concluded that primary skin fibroblasts are able to survive for at least 8 weeks following intracerebral implantation and continue to synthesize collagen and fibronectin in vivo. Also, the grafts maintain a constant volume between 3 and 8 weeks, thereby indicating that primary skin fibroblasts do not produce tumors. Finally, dynamic host-to-graft interactions--including phagocytic migration, astrocytic hypertrophy and infiltration within the grafts, and angiogenesis--are features that constitute the structural integration of primary skin fibroblasts grafted within the adult rat central nervous system.
The distribution of uptake sites for the inhibitory neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) in the nematode Ascaris suum was examined by autoradiography of 3H-GABA uptake. Single neural processes in both the ventral and dorsal nerve cords were labeled with 3H-GABA. Serial section analysis identified the cells of origin of these processes as the RMEV-like and RMED-like neurons. These cells belong to a set of four neurons in the nerve ring, all of which are labeled by 3H-GABA. 3H-GABA labeling of at least two other sets of cephalic neurons was seen. One of these pairs consists of medium-sized lateral ganglia neurons, located at the level of the amphid commissure bundle. A second pair is located in the lateral ganglia at the level of the deirid commissure bundle. The position and size of these lateral ganglia cells suggest that they are the GABA-immunoreactive lateral ganglia cells frequently seen in whole-mount immunocytochemical preparations (Guastella et al., J Comp Neurol 307:584-597, 1991). Four neuronal cell bodies located in the retrovesicular ganglion were also labeled with 3H-GABA. These cells, which are probably cholinergic excitatory motor neurons, do not contain detectable GABA-like immunoreactivity. Heavy labeling of muscle cells was also observed. The ventral and dorsal nerve cord inhibitory motor neurons, which are known to contain GABA-like immunoreactivity, were not labeled above background with 3H-GABA. Together with the experiments reported previously (Guastella et al., J Comp Neurol 307:584-597, 1991), these results define three classes of GABA-associated neurons in Ascaris: 1) neurons that contain endogenous GABA and possess a GABA uptake system; 2) neurons that contain endogenous GABA, but that either lack a GABA uptake system or possess a GABA uptake system of low activity; 3) neurons that possess a GABA uptake system, but that lack endogenous GABA.
gamma-Aminobutyric acid (GABA) immunoreactive neurons in the cephalic, somatic, and caudal regions of the Ascaris nervous system were visualized with serial section and whole-mount GABA immunocytochemistry. In the ventral and dorsal nerve cords, GABA-like immunoreactivity (GLIR) is localized to the neurites and cell bodies of identified inhibitory motor neurons and to two fibers, one in each cord, that arise from neurons in the nerve ring. GLIR is absent from identified excitatory motor neurons and from ventral cord interneurons. In neurons containing GLIR, immunoreactivity was present throughout the cell, which argues against an exclusive localization of GABA at conventional synapses. In whole mounts, ten GABA-immunoreactive neurons were present in the cephalic region. These include four nerve ring-associated cells (the RME-like cells), two bilaterally symmetrical pairs of lateral ganglia neurons (the amphid-GABA and deirid-GABA cells) and one bilaterally symmetrical pair of ventral ganglion cells (the VG-GABA cells). In sections, the RME-like cells and the VG-GABA cells were consistently stained through the cephalic region. However, anti-GABA staining of the lateral ganglia cells in sections was light, thus suggesting that they contain less GLIR than the other more intensely stained GABA-immunoreactive neurons. In the caudal region, a single GABA-immunoreactive neuron was present in the dorsal rectal ganglion. Our data suggest that these ten cephalic neurons, and a single dorsal rectal ganglion neuron, use GABA as a neurotransmitter.
The term &quot;neural network&quot; has been applied to arrays of simple activation units linked by weighted connections. If the connections are modified according to a defined learning algorithm, such networks can be trained to store and retrieve patterned information. Memories are distributed throughout the network, allowing the network to recall complete patterns from incomplete input (pattern completion). The major biological application of neural network theory to date has been in the neurosciences, but the immune system may represent an alternative organ system in which to search for neural network architecture. Previous applications of parallel distributed processing to idiotype network theory have focused upon the recognition of individual epitopes. We argue here that this approach may be too restrictive, underestimating the power of neural network architecture. We propose that the network stores and retrieves large, complex patterns consisting of multiple epitopes separated in time and space. Such a network would be capable of perceiving an entire bacterium, and of storing the time course of a viral infection. While recognition of solitary epitopes occurs at the cellular level in this model, recognition of structures larger than the width of an antibody binding site takes place at the organ level, via network architecture integration of, i.e. individual epitope responses. The Oudin-Cazenave enigma, the sharing of idiotypic determinants by antibodies directed against distinct regions of the same antigen, suggests that some network level of integration of the individual clonal responses to large antigens does occur. The role of cytokines in prior neural network models of the immune system is unclear. We speculate that cytokines may influence the temperature of the network, such that changes in the cytokine milieu serve to &quot;anneal&quot; the network, allowing it to achieve the optimum steady-state in the shortest period of time.
Electrophysiological techniques were used to examine the organization of the spinobulbospinal micturition reflex pathway in the rat. Electrical stimulation of afferent axons in the pelvic nerve evoked a long latency (136 +/- 41 ms) response on bladder postganglionic nerves, whereas stimulation in the dorsal pontine tegmentum elicited shorter latency firing (72 +/- 25 ms) on these nerves. Transection of the pelvic nerve eliminated these responses. Firing on the bladder postganglionic nerves was evoked by stimulation in a relatively limited area of the pons within and close to the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus (LDT) and adjacent ventral periaqueductal gray. Stimulation at sites ventral to this excitatory area inhibited at latencies of 107 +/- 11 ms the asynchronous firing on the bladder postganglionic nerves elicited by bladder distension. Electrical stimulation of afferents in the pelvic nerve evoked short latency (13 +/- 3 ms) negative field potentials in the dorsal part of the periaqueductal gray as well as long latency (42 +/- 7 ms) field potentials in and adjacent to the LDT. The responses were not altered by neuromuscular blockade. Similar responses were elicited by stimulation of afferent axons in the bladder nerves. The sum of the latencies of the ascending and descending pathways between the LDT and the pelvic nerve (i.e. 72 ms plus 42 ms = 114 ms) is comparable although somewhat shorter (22 ms) than the latency of the entire micturition reflex. These results provide further evidence that the micturition reflex in the rat is mediated by a spinobulbospinal pathway which passes through the dorsal pontine tegmentum, and that neurons in the periaqueductal gray as well as the LDT may play as important role in the regulation of the micturition.
Protein kinase C (PKC) is a family of closely related enzymes implicated in molecular processes involved in growth and differentiation in a variety of cells. We studied the presence and distribution of 4 PKC isozymes in glial cell cultures of the rat hippocampus employing antisera raised against synthetic peptides predicted from the cDNA sequences corresponding to the C-terminal portion of 4 PKC isoforms, alpha, beta I, beta II, and gamma. PKC(alpha) and -(beta II), but neither PKC(beta I) nor -(gamma) isoforms were detected in glial cultures of the rat hippocampus. Anti-PKC(alpha) immunostained all glial cells, whereas anti-PKC(beta II) faintly stained about 20% of total glial cells resembling the type-2 astrocyte that were GFAP immunopositive, with few processes. Anti-PKC(beta II) did not stain about 80% of the glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-immunopositive cells with a few thick processes which resembled the type-1 astrocyte. A few cells that stained intensely with anti-PKC(beta II) were GFAP immunopositive and possessed fine, but well-developed, multiple processes. Faint PKC(beta II) immunoreactivity was also detected among anti-MBP-positive cells (possibly oligodendrocytes), RCA-1-positive cells (possibly microglia), and small, oval, anti-GFAP-positive cells. These results suggest the involvement of distinct PKC isoforms in different glial functions.
Flunarizine dose dependently inhibits the binding of both [3H]spiperone and [3H]SCH 23390 with Ki values of 112 +/- 9 and 532 +/- 39 nM, respectively. The inhibition of [3H]spiperone binding by flunarizine was competitive as revealed by the Schild plot. The results indicate that flunarizine is a fairly potent dopamine D2 receptor antagonist and offer a possible explanation for the extrapyramidal side-effects observed in patients treated with the drug.
Inhibition of nitric oxide (NO) synthase activity by L-NG-Nitroarginine (NO2Arg) in brain preparations is not reversed by dialysis and is enhanced by prolonged preincubation of NO2Arg with the enzyme. By contrast, the weaker inhibition by NO2Arg of macrophage NO synthase is fully reversible. NO2Arg inhibits NO synthase activity in the brain after i.p. administration of 5 or 50 mg/kg. This in vivo inhibition also appears to be irreversible. The potent in vivo inhibition of central NO synthase by NO2Arg may facilitate studies of the physiologic function of NO as a neuronal messenger.
Nerve growth factor receptor immunoreactivity in the septohippocampal pathway of adult Fischer 344 rats was assessed at the light and electron microscope level. The medial septum possesses immunoreactive somata, dendrites, axons, and terminals. Immunostained somata are either bipolar or multipolar in appearance. Dendritic processes of immunoreactive septal neurons are categorized into two groups: proximal dendrites with smooth plasma membranes and distal dendrites with numerous swellings. Immunoreactive axons within the septum are long and slender and do not possess varicosities. At the electron microscope level, immunoreactivity is confined predominantly to the plasma membrane of cell bodies and dendrites of septal neurons, as well as to the plasma membrane of axons and terminals. Both immunoreactive and nonimmunoreactive terminals that contain clear, spherical vesicles are observed contacting immunoreactive dendrites and somata. Although accumulations of vesicles are evident within these terminals at sites of contact, distinct synaptic specializations are difficult to distinguish due to the localization of reaction product on the apposing plasma membranes. Axons possessing immunoreactivity are also observed in the fimbria-fornix pathway, a major source of afferent inputs to the hippocampus. Immunoreactive axons and terminals are topographically organized in the hippocampal dentate gyrus. The density of immunostained axons and terminals is highest immediately adjacent to the granular layer. In comparison, a moderate density of immunoreactive axons is found in the outer molecular layer and a weak density in the inner molecular, granular, and polymorphic layers. Immunoreactivity is found on the plasma membrane of small unmyelinated axons and terminals aggregated into clusters throughout the dentate gyrus. Definitive examples of axosomatic and axodendritic synapses possessing immunoreactivity presynaptically are not observed. Immunoreactive profiles within the medial septum and hippocampus also circumfuse a small number of intracerebral vessels. Ultrastructural examination reveals that immunoreactivity is present within a narrowed extension of the subarachnoid space and appears to be closely associated with the plasma membrane of leptomeningeal cell processes. The present study provides direct evidence for the cellular distribution of nerve growth factor receptor immunoreactivity in the medial septum and dentate gyrus in the adult rat and offers new insight into the ultrastructural localization of nerve growth factor receptor among septal cholinergic neurons and their efferent projections to the hippocampus.
Non-N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptors (GluRs) are encoded by a gene family, known members of which are designated GluR-1, -2, -3, -4, and -5. The present study examined the developmental pattern of GluR-1, -2, and -3 gene expression in rat brain. In situ hybridization revealed different spatial patterns throughout the brain for the cognate mRNAs at all ages examined, as well as different temporal patterns during development. In the adult all three mRNAs were expressed prominently in the pyramidal and granule layers of the hippocampus and in the Purkinje cell layer of the cerebellum, where detailed differences were apparent at the cellular level. In neocortex, GluR-2 mRNA exhibited prominent lamination and regional differences, which were less marked for GluR-1 and -3 mRNAs. In caudate-putamen GluR-2 mRNA was at high levels, but GluR-1 and -3 mRNAs were not. At early ages transcripts were transiently elevated relative to adult levels. GluR-1 mRNA reached peak expression in cortex at postnatal day 14 (P14) (225% of adult), in striatum at P4 (255% of adult), in hippocampus at P14 (195% of adult), and in cerebellum at P21 (150% of adult). GluR-3 exhibited more modest peaks in neocortex and hippocampus. In contrast, GluR-2 mRNA was at near adult levels throughout the first days of postnatal life and exhibited a peak only in cerebellum at P14 (168% of adult). The finding of differential developmental regulation of the GluR-1, -2, and -3 genes indicates that the receptors they encode may have different influences on synaptic plasticity, neuronal survival, and susceptibility to excitatory amino acid toxicity.

Local cerebral blood flow and glucose utilisation were measured in both saline (n = 10) and cocaine (10 mg/kg; n = 10) treated rats using [14C]iodoantipyrine and [14C]2-deoxyglucose quantitative autoradiography respectively. In control animals, the ratio of flow to metabolism was 1.40 (r = 0.92) for the 40 brain regions examined. Cocaine treatment altered neither the correlation (r = 0.83) nor the ratio (1.49). Thus, the fundamental relationship between CBF and metabolism remains intact following acute cocaine exposure.
Two types of cholinergic neurons were transplanted into the hippoccampus of adult rats chemically damaged by lateral ventricular administration of AF64A, a cholinergic neurotoxin, and the effects were compared with respect to their ability to reinnervate the hippocampus and to repair behavioral deficit. Pieces of brain tissue containing the nucleus basalis magnocellularis (NBM) or the striatum were taken for grafting from 17-day rat fetuses. About 3 months after transplantation, the rats with bilateral NBM grafts showed significant amelioration in radial-arm maze performance and habituation to a novel environment in an open field box, although they had not recovered to the control level. In rats with NBM grafts that showed a good performance, there were surviving grafts and many ingrowths of AChE-positive fibers in the hippocampus. By contrast, rats with striatal grafts showed hardly any significant improvement in these behavioral measures. The AChE staining revealed poor outgrowth of the striatal grafts into the hippocampus. These results indicate that grafting of NBM cholinergic neurons, which are anatomically similar to septal neurons, into the hippocampus produces a partial restorative effect on the cognitive impairment associated with hypofunction of the septohippocampal system.
Three neuroanatomical tracers have been employed to map the axonal projections formed between transplants of fetal spinal cord tissue and the surrounding host spinal cord in adult rats. Solid pieces of embryonic day 14 (E14) rat spinal cord were placed into hemisection aspiration cavities in the lumbar spinal cord. Injections of either (1) a mixture of horseradish peroxidase and wheat germ agglutinin- conjugated horseradish peroxidase, (2) Fluoro-Gold, or (3) Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin (PHA-L) were made into the transplants or the neighboring segments of the host spinal cord at 6 weeks to 14 months post-transplantation. Injections of anterograde and retrograde tracers into the transplants revealed extensive intrinsic projections that often spanned the length of the grafts. Axons arising from the transplants extended into the host spinal cord as far as 5 mm from the host-graft interface, as best revealed by retrograde labeling with Fluoro-Gold. Consistent with these observations, iontophoretic injections of PHA-L into the transplants also produced labeled axonal profiles at comparable distances in the host spinal cord, and in some instances elaborate terminals fields were observed surrounding host neurons. The majority of these efferent fibers labeled with PHA-L, however, were confined to the immediate vicinity of the host-graft boundary, and no fibers were seen traversing cellular partitions between host and transplant tissues. Host afferents to the transplants were also revealed by these tracing methods. For example, the injection of Fluoro-Gold into the grafts resulted in labeling of host neurons within the spinal cord and nearby dorsal root ganglia. In most cases, retrogradely labeled neurons in spinal gray matter were located within 0.5 mm of the graft site, although some were seen as far as 4-6 mm away. The distance and relative density of ingrowth exhibited by host axons into the grafts, however, appeared modest based upon the results of HRP and Fluoro-Gold retrograde labeling. This was further confirmed with the PHA-L anterograde method. Whereas some host fibers were seen extending into the transplants, the majority of PHA-L containing axons formed terminal-like profiles at or within 0.5 mm of the host-graft interface. The comprehensive view of intrinsic connectivity and host-graft projections obtained in these studies indicates that intraspinal grafts of fetal spinal cord tissue can establish a short-range intersegmental circuitry in the injured, adult spinal cord. These observations are consistent with the view that such grafts may contribute to the formation of a functional relay between separated segments of the spinal cord after injury.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
This paper describes the first application of structural modeling to neuroscience. Structural modeling (also known as path analysis) is a method to assess the relative impact of directional links in a system and how these interrelations may change under different conditions. The objective was to demonstrate how structural modeling can be used to determine the functional interrelationships between brain structures that form the auditory system. Using structural modeling, changes in auditory system 2-DG uptake were examined during long- and short-term habituation of the acoustic startle reflex. Models were based on the anatomical connections between central auditory system structures. Using functional 2-DG data, the correlations between these structures were calculated and numerical weights were computed for each anatomical link. The analysis revealed that the lemniscal path was dominant during short-term habituation, while during long-term habituation this influence was modified through extra-lemniscal pathways. The models are discussed in the context of previous findings to demonstrate how structural modeling can not only complement, but also extract more information from 2-DG mapping experiments.
The effects of acute and chronic ethanol administration on N-methyl-D-aspartate-stimulated catecholamine overflow were examined. Three groups of male Sprague-Dawley rats were used. The first group received a chronic liquid diet containing ethanol (37%) for 3 weeks. The second group was pair-fed a liquid diet with dextrin substituted for ethanol isocalorically. The third group received Purina rat lab chow and water ad libitum. N-methyl-D-aspartate-stimulated [3H]catecholamine overflow from brain tissue slices was determined. N-methyl-D-aspartate (50-2000 microM) produced a concentration-dependent increase in [3H]norepinephrine overflow from cortical and hippocampal slices with no significant alteration of the response following chronic ethanol treatment. [3H]Dopamine overflow from striatal slices of the chronic ethanol group was significantly different at 1000 microM N-methyl-D-aspartate. The response of the chronic ethanol-treated group at the 1000 microM N-methyl-D-aspartate concentration was 30% and 40% lower than the pair-fed and ad libitum controls, respectively. Ethanol when added in vitro (30-200 mM) produced a concentration-dependent inhibition of N-methyl-D-aspartate (150 microM) stimulated efflux in all brain regions, and chronic ethanol treatment did not alter the inhibitory response. These results indicate an apparant lack of adaptation in N-methyl-D-aspartate-stimulated transmitter release following chronic ethanol treatment in this particular paradigm.
C57BL/6J and C57BL/6J-rd le Gus-sh mice, congenics at the rd locus, were compared with respect to number of granule cells and presumed pyramidal basket cells in the hippocampal dentate gyrus. Number of both types of neurons were less in rd/rd mice than in +/-/+/- mice. The rd gene may be responsible.
Protein kinase C (PKC) is an important intracellular regulator, and its activity may play a central role in the modulation of neuronal ischemic damage. Staurosporine and the compound H-7 are potent in vitro inhibitors of PKC, and 1,2-oleoylacetylglycerol (OAG) is an effective activator. We administered these compounds through a spinal subarachnoid catheter and demonstrated in vivo alteration of spinal cord PKC activity. We then tested the effects of altering PKC activity in a well-established rabbit model of reversible spinal cord ischemia. Animals within each experimental group were subjected to a range of spinal cord ischemic durations by temporary occlusion of the infrarenal abdominal aorta. Compared to control, both staurosporine and H-7 significantly shortened the duration of ischemia that the animals could tolerate, without developing permanent paraplegia. OAG resulted in an insignificant lengthening of the ischemic duration that the animals could withstand. The worsening of ischemic outcome by PKC inhibitors suggests that the enzyme is important for maintaining neurologic function under ischemic conditions, possibly secondary to modulation of intracellular calcium levels.
The expression of the neuromuscular acetylcholine receptor (AChR) alpha-subunit gene was evaluated in soleus muscles from an animal model of chronic alcoholism. At 8 weeks of age, test rats were placed on a nutritionally complete liquid diet containing 6.7% ethanol (v/v). Age- and weight-matched control rats were pair-fed an isocaloric liquid diet. After a 16-week diet period, soleus muscles were obtained and total RNA and poly(A)+ RNA were isolated. Muscle RNA levels from ethanol-fed and control rats were comparable. AChR alpha-subunit mRNA was detected by hybridization of muscle poly(A)+ RNA with a 32P-labeled, complementary riboprobe. The steady-state level of AChR alpha-subunit mRNA was reduced by 39% (p less than 0.001) in soleus muscles from the ethanol-fed rats as compared to pair-fed controls. These results suggest that the expression of the AChR alpha-subunit gene is down-regulated after chronic ethanol exposure at a transcriptional or posttranscriptional level.
Studies of the marine mollusk Aplysia californica indicate that products of the 12-lipoxygenase pathway may be involved in neuronal intracellular signaling. The nervous tissue of Aplysia has a 12-lipoxygenase activity that converts both exogenous and endogenous arachidonic acid to an array of products, which include 12-hydroperoxyeicosatetraenoic acid (12-HPETE) and its metabolites hepoxilin A3, hepoxilin B3, 12-ketoeicosatetraenoic acid, and 12-oxododecatrienoic acid. These eicosanoids were identified using a combination of high-performance liquid chromatography, ultraviolet spectrometry and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Generation of 12-lipoxygenase products was stimulated by application of the neurotransmitters, histamine and FMRF-amide, or by stimulation of identified neural cells. In electrophysiological studies of identified L14 and sensory neurons it was found that 12-HPETE and its metabolic products exert physiological actions that resemble those of histamine and FMRF-amide. These results suggest that products of 12-HPETE metabolism may act as second messengers in Aplysia neurons.
The purpose of this essay is to delineate the conceptual framework for psychiatry as an integrated and integrative science that unites the mental and the physical. Four basic philosophical perspectives concerning the relationship between mind and body are introduced. The biopsychosocial model, at this time the preeminent model in medical science that addresses this relationship, is examined and found to be flawed. Mental-physical identity theory is presented as the most valid philosophical approach to understanding the relationship between mind and body. Organic unity theory is then proposed as a synthesis of the biopsychosocial model and mental-physical identity theory in which the difficulties of the biopsychosocial model are resolved. Finally, some implications of organic unity theory for psychiatry are considered. 1) The conventional dichotomy between physical (organic) and mental (functional) is linguistic/conceptual rather than inherent in nature, and all events and processes involved in the etiology, pathogenesis, symptomatic manifestation, and treatment of psychiatric disorders are simultaneously biological and psychological. 2) Neuroscience requires new conceptual models to comprehend the integrated and emergent physiological processes to which psychological phenomena correspond. 3) Introspective awareness provides data that are valid for scientific inquiry and is the most direct method of knowing psychophysical events. 4) Energy currently being expended in disputes between biological and psychological psychiatry would be more productively invested in attempting to formulate the conditions under which each approach is maximally effective.

Cystinosis is an autosomal recessive metabolic disorder in which nonprotein cystine accumulates within most body tissues due to a defect in lysosomal cystine transport. Neurologic declarations are only recently being recognized. We studied 13 cystinotic subjects (aged 5 to 21 years old), determining median motor and sensory nerve conduction velocities, F waves, peroneal motor nerve conduction velocities, sural sensory nerve conduction velocities, median sympathetic skin response, electrocardiogram R-to-R variability, and blink reflex analysis. The results were normal. We conclude that neurophysiologic testing suggests relative sparing of the peripheral nervous system in nephropathic cystinosis.
Stuttering is a poorly understood communication disorder with a 1% global prevalence. Recently, there has been a resurgence of interest in a neurogenic origin for the disorder, although no research has established clear neurological differences between &quot;developmental&quot; (stuttering onset in childhood) stutterers and nonstutterers. We have used xenon 133 single-photon emission computed tomography to study regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in 20 stutterers. Analysis revealed global, absolute flow reductions. Relative flow asymmetries (left less than right) were identified in three hemispheric regions: anterior cingulate and superior and middle temporal gyri. Milder changes were found in the left inferior frontal gyrus. Stutterers had rCBF values below median for either anterior cingulate or middle temporal gyri. With one exception, severe stutterers had rCBF values below median for the anterior cingulate gyrus. All stutterers with rCBF values above median in the cingulate gyrus had rCBF values below median in the middle temporal gyrus, and severity of their disorder was either mild or moderate. Our findings suggest that stuttering is a neurogenic disorder involving recognized cortical regions of speech-motor control.

The origins of light as a therapy in medicine and surgery are traced from antiquity to the modern day. Phototherapy began in ancient Greece, Egypt and India but disappeared for many centuries, only being rediscovered by Western civilization at the beginning of the twentieth century through the Dane, Niels Finsen, and the Germans Oscar Raab and Herman von Tappeiner. The discovery of the tumour-localizing ability of haematoporphyrin, together with its phototoxic effect on tumour cells led to the development of photodynamic therapy, a promising tool in modern cancer treatment.

In the vertebrate central nervous system, afferent axons find their appropriate target structures under the influence of local environmental cues. In many target regions, appropriate patterns of activity in the afferents are also required to establish normal mappings between the source cells and the target region. Specific mappings arise in these targets because temporal contiguity in firing is somehow transformed into spatial contiguity of synaptic contacts. In this article, we propose a theory that utilizes the covariance of a transient diffusive signal produced at active synapses with the firing of presynaptic axon terminals to account for many of these activity-dependent features of vertebrate neuroanatomy. Computer simulations of the growth of axons within a three-dimensional volume of neural tissue reveal the generality of the proposed mechanism in accounting for the self-organization of a broad range of diverse neuroanatomical structures, including those in the cerebral cortex. The proposed mechanism is consistent with detailed anatomical and physiological data, and direct experimental tests of predictions of the theory are suggested.
The ability of mouse motor neurones to survive axotomy during the first month of life was studied. The motor neurones that lie in the dorsolateral columns of spinal segments C7 and C8 and supply the flexor muscles of the forepaw were axotomized by cutting and removing part of the median and ulnar nerves above the elbow. The number and position of cell bodies with axons in these nerves were confirmed by retrograde labelling of the cut axons with horseradish peroxidase. The ability of these neurones to survive axotomy varies with the age of the animal at the time of axotomy. When the axons are sectioned within the first four postnatal days, 80-90% of the cell bodies will die, more than half of this death occurring in less than one week after axotomy. If the animals are one week old at the time the nerves are cut, a significantly smaller number (50%) die (P = 0.013), and the time-course of death is different, with eight to ten days elapsing before half the death has occurred. 40% of the neurones will die if sectioned at two weeks of age, and it is not until four weeks of age that more than 90% of the cells can survive axotomy. We conclude, therefore, that the kinetics of motor neurone death, as well as the final extent of neuronal loss, are affected by the age at which the animal is axotomized.
We performed a detailed analysis of the variability of a steady-state human evoked potential (EP) and the spectral properties of the simultaneously recorded electroencephalogram (EEG). This allowed us to determine whether the background EEG was influenced by the evoked potential stimulus, and to what extent variability of evoked potential estimates is simply due to the addition of the background EEG. Steady-state visual evoked potentials (VEPs) were elicited by a checkerboard undergoing contrast-reversal modulation at 1 of 3 fundamental frequencies f: 5.0 Hz, 7.5 Hz, and 10.0 Hz. To a first approximation, the evoked potential (at frequency 2 f) and the undriven components of the EEG combined linearly. However, two kinds of interactions were present: (i) patterned visual stimulation decreased the power in the undriven EEG in the 5-17 Hz range by as much as a factor of 2; (ii) superimposed on this overall effect of pattern stimulation, there were changes in the EEG power at specific harmonics of the input frequency. Power increased by as much as 6-fold at the stimulus reversal rate (2 f) and its second harmonic (4 f). These findings imply a complex non-linear interaction between the visual input and the EEG.
Steady-state evoked potentials are often characterized by the amplitude and phase of the Fourier component at one or more frequencies of interest. We introduce a new statistic for the evaluation of these Fourier components. This statistic, denoted T2circ, is based on the same physiologic assumptions concerning the sources of variability of a Fourier component that are made in the use of the Rayleigh phase-coherence statistic as well as the standard T2 statistic (Hotelling 1931) for multivariate data. However, the T2circ statistic also exploits the relationship between the real and imaginary components of Fourier estimates, which is not exploited by T2, and utilizes amplitude information, which is ignored by the Rayleigh criterion. For these reasons, the T2circ statistic is more efficient than previously used criteria for detection and quantitation of steady-state responses, both in principle and in practice.
Mutant Quaking mice (C57BL/6J) display convulsive tonic-clonic seizures that can be either spontaneous or triggered by manipulation of the animal or by auditory stimulation. Several abnormalities have been found (especially in the noradrenergic system) in the brainstem of this mutant strain. We first verified by electrophysiological recording that the cerebral cortex was not involved in the generation or in the development of these fits. Then we showed that tonic-clonic seizures similar to those obtained in the freely moving animal were triggered by low-threshold (LT, 5-50 microA) or high-threshold (HT, 55-150 microA) stimuli performed during head restraint. LT stimuli were mostly efficient in a number of ponto-bulbar and mesencephalic structures, including several reticular nuclei, the locus coeruleus, the nucleus subcoeruleus and the red nucleus, whereas HT stimuli were generally necessary to trigger fits by stimulating the nuclei pontis, the substantia nigra, the central gray area and the cerebellar nuclei. Seizures were also provoked at the diencephalic level with LT stimulation delivered in the medial thalamic area, the nucleus reticularis thalami and some subthalamic regions (zona incerta, H field of Forel). In contrast, no fits were obtained by stimulating the cerebellar cortex and the inferior colliculus, the ventral and lateral groups of thalamic nuclei or the telencephalic regions (hippocampus, amygdala, caudate nucleus, putamen and cerebral cortex), with the exception of the globus pallidus.
The substrate properties were compared between normal and myelin-deficient central nervous system (CNS) tissues by an in vitro assay of cell attachment and spreading. Fibroblasts (3T3) were plated onto culture substrata consisting of optic nerve tissue sections cut from normal or two myelin-deficient mutant mice, Shiverer and Quaking. Optic nerve sections from either of the mutant animals supported more 3T3 fibroblast spreading and adhesion than sections derived from animals with normal myelin. These results demonstrate that CNS myelin influences the ability of cells to attach and spread and that it is the actual presence of myelin which is inhibitory rather than the presence of optic nerve axons or oligodendrocytes.
The relationship between the concurrent increase in net K+ efflux and isometric tension development has been studied in perifused dog saphenous vein strips using 86Rb+ as a marker for K+. Noradrenaline, acting through alpha-adrenoceptors, or depolarization induced by raised extracellular K+ (in the presence of an alpha-adrenoceptor antagonist) increased both 86Rb+ efflux and isometric tension. However, even with a high concentration of K+ (120 mmol l-1) the evoked changes in 86Rb+ efflux and tension were small compared with those produced by noradrenaline. There was a linear relationship between 86Rb+ efflux and tension maintained throughout the time course of each evoked response. This linear relationship was the same for each response evoked throughout the concentration range of noradrenaline (1-100 mumol l-1) or K+ (30-120 mmol l-1) used. Substitution of extracellular Ca2+ by Ba2+ did not alter either basal tension or 86Rb+ efflux; nor did it alter either the magnitude of noradrenaline-evoked changes in 86Rb+ efflux or tension, or the slope of the relationship between the two seen with Ca2+. The cardioactive steroid, acetylstrophanthidin, altered the evoked response to exogenous noradrenaline and to K+ depolarization in that there was now a significant increase in 86Rb+ efflux relative to tension, although the linear relationship between the two was maintained. In the nominal absence of extracellular Ca2+ the increase in 86Rb+ efflux produced by exogenous noradrenaline was maintained but the evoked increased in tension was reduced. The data shows for dog saphenous vein: (a) that gross evoked 86Rb+ efflux is attenuated by an active backflux mediated by the sodium-potassium pump and (b) that 86Rb+ efflux can occur through a membrane potential-activated pathway and through an independent alpha-adrenoceptor-activated pathway but although the linear relationship between 86Rb+ efflux and tension can be best explained by their co-dependence upon Ca2+, the present experiments provide no objective evidence for an internal calcium-activated pathway.
Morphine administered as a subcutaneous implant inhibits the initial increase in cytoplasmic free-calcium [Ca2+]i induced by mitogens in mouse splenocytes. This effect was not reproduced by incubation of splenocytes with morphine (10(-8)-10(-4) M). Analysis of splenocyte subpopulations demonstrates that this effect was manifest in both B and T cells. However, within T cell subpopulations, CD4+ but not CD8+ cells were affected. Adrenalectomy abolished this effect of morphine in CD4+ T but not CD4-, CD8- spleen cells (most likely Thy 1.2- B cells). Moreover, simultaneous administration of the opiate antagonist naltrexone blocked the effect of morphine in CD4-, CD8- spleen cells, but not in CD4+ T cells. These data indicate that the effects of morphine on mitogen-stimulated increase in [Ca2+]i may be mediated through distinct glucocorticoid-dependent and -independent mechanisms. The morphine-induced inhibition of an increase in [Ca2+]i in immune cells reported here may be an early event mediating opiate-induced immunosuppression.
A computer program based on the Gauss-Newton method was developed for the Hodgkin-Huxley estimation of kinetic parameters of membrane currents recorded in voltage-clamp experiments. Fast potassium current of land snail neurons was estimated, and found to be in agreement with literature reports.

This investigation focused on the relationship between neurotransmitter phenotype expression and rat motor neuron development, as studied with choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) immunocytochemical techniques. The development of two subclasses of motor neurons, somatic and autonomic efferents, was examined in the upper thoracic spinal cord. ChAT was first detected in a few neurons on embryonic day 12 1/2 (E12 1/2), and in numerous cells located in a single, ventrolaterally located column in the intermediate zone on E13. By E14, this group of ChAT-positive neurons was more intensely immunoreactive, and their axons could be traced to appropriate targets in developing somatic muscle and paravertebral sympathetic ganglia. During the E15-16 period, somatic and autonomic motor neurons separated into two distinct subgroups, with the latter cells being observed to translocate dorsally. By E17, these autonomic motor neurons reached their final positions in the midportion of the intermediate zone. The autonomic motor neurons were observed to extend transverse dendritic bundles across the spinal cord between E15-16, but evidence of the longitudinal bundles of sympathetic preganglionic dendrites was not observed until after birth. A recent study of cholinergic thoracic motor neurons found that both somatic and autonomic cells were generated synchronously during the E11-12 period (Barber et al., Soc Neurosci Abstr 15:588, 1989). In combination with the present results, these data indicate that no more than 1 1/2 days are necessary after motor neuron genesis before a few cells begin to express detectable levels of ChAT, and that no more than 2 days are required before large numbers express this marker of the cholinergic phenotype. Further comparisons of the present findings with those of previous investigations of the development of both somatic and autonomic motor neurons (Dennis et al., Dev Biol 81:266, 1981; Rubin, J Neurosci 5:685, 697, 1985) indicate that these cells contain ChAT at the time their axons are growing toward their respective peripheral targets 1 day before the time when physiological evidence of function is manifest. Furthermore, the present results suggest that both subclasses of motor neurons initially migrate together from the ventricular zone into a single motor column within the ventral intermediate zone, and that the autonomic neurons subsequently translocate dorsally. Thus, autonomic motor neurons appear to be an exception to the generalization that postmitotic neurons migrate directly from the germinal zone to their final positions within the central nervous system.
1. In an in vitro preparation of the medullary pacemaker nucleus of Apteronotus, the consequences of a variety of ionic and pharmacological manipulations upon both ongoing activity and synaptic modulation of the nucleus were assessed. 2. Spontaneous rhythmicity in the pacemaker nucleus was found to be Na+-, K+-, and Ca(2+)-dependent. The extreme sensitivity to 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) relative to other treatments suggested that the K+ A-current is a critical element in the oscillations. 3. Elevated K+ or 4-AP were titrated to concentrations that suppressed spontaneous oscillations, but allowed modulatory, 'chirp' epsps to persist. The transition to elevated K+ revealed oscillatory properties in some neurons in the form of epsp-induced ringing 4. Threshold concentrations of 4-AP sufficient to halt oscillations, caused epsps to become larger and complex, increased input resistance, and enhanced the effects of current injection on epsp amplitude. A greater degree of voltage-sensitivity was also seen in later components of the complex epsp. 5. Several treatments presumed to increase Ca2+ caused desynchronization of firing and revealed diverging intrinsic frequencies among cells.
Hypotheses concerning the pathophysiology of hypertension, cardiac failure and other cardiovascular disorders have imputed abnormal cardiac sympathoneural activity. Here we describe a technique to examine cardiac sympathetic innervation and function using positron emission tomographic (PET) scanning after systemic intravenous injection of 18F-6-fluorodopamine, and the effects of chemical sympathectomy by the neurotoxin, 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA). Uptake of 18F-6-fluorodopamine by the heart of anesthetized dogs resulted in striking delineation of the left ventricular myocardium. Myocardial radioactivity declined bi-exponentially, with a half-life of approximately 2 h during the longer phase. In 6-OHDA-treated animals, the ventricular myocardium was barely distinguishable from the chamber; myocardial radioactivity declined rapidly and was virtually absent within 30 min after injection of 18F-6-fluorodopamine. The rates of decline in myocardial radioactivity in dogs treated with 6-OHDA were similar to those in dogs treated with reserpine, but the mechanisms of sympatholysis by these drugs were distinguished by arterial plasma levels of 6-fluorodihydroxyphenylacetic acid (6-FDOPAC). Plasma 6-FDOPAC levels were diminished in 6-OHDA-treated dogs and elevated in reserpinized dogs. The results confirm that, after injection of 18F-6-fluorodopamine, cardiac sympathetic nerve endings are radiolabeled, allowing visualization of sites of sympathetic innervation. Combined assessments of PET time-activity curves and plasma levels of metabolites of 18F-6-fluorodopamine constitute a new, potentially clinically applicable means by which to examine cardiac sympathetic function.
We examined the effects of a synthetic fleece pad on cage stereotypies in individually housed cynomolgus monkeys. Animals which received the fleece alone engaged in grooming which was associated with an increase in time spent resting. Monkeys given fleece pads sprinkled with morsels of food did not groom the fleece, but rather foraged for long periods (up to 27 min/h). Stereotyped behaviours were reduced by up to 73% by use of the fleece pad both alone and with foraging crumbles.

The effects of loop diuretics and ion substitution on the 2-min uptake of K (86Rb as marker) were analyzed to obtain evidence for K cotransport with Na and Cl in the choroid plexus epithelium. The isolated plexuses, which were excised from lateral ventricles of adult rats, were bathed in artificial cerebrospinal fluid (aCSF). At concentrations of 10(-6) to 10(-4) M, the specific cotransport inhibitors, bumetanide and piretanide, suppressed uptake of K in a dose-dependent manner. Ouabain-insensitive K uptake was stimulated by preincubating the choroid plexus in aCSF very low in [Na] and [K], then incubating it in much higher concentrations of these cations; bumetanide (10(-4)M) blocked this stimulated uptake by 52%. Moreover, tissue preincubation in Na- or Cl-free medium, followed by incubation with normal concentrations of both ions, stimulated the ouabain-insensitive uptake of K from 15 (baseline) to 35 nmol/mg dry weight. This stimulation of K transport depended on the simultaneous presence of both Na and Cl in aCSF, and replacing either ion alone did not stimulate the ouabain-insensitive K uptake. Collectively, these findings, together with those from a previous pharmacological study of 22Na and 36Cl transport, constitute strong evidence for the cotransport of Na, K, and Cl in rat choroid plexus.
Binding characteristics of the selective dopamine uptake inhibitor [3H]GBR 12935 have been described for the striatum but not for the frontal cortex. We have developed assay conditions for quantifying [3H]GBR 12935 binding in the frontal cortex. In both the rat and human frontal cortex, the assay required four times more tissue (8 mg/ml) than in the striatum (2 mg/ml). [3H]GBR 12935 binding in the frontal is complex, as it involves multiple binding sites. The high-affinity binding site is sodium dependent and is inhibited by sodium. In human but not in rat frontal cortex, addition of K+ reversed the sodium inhibition. The pharmacological profile of the high-affinity [3H]GBR 12935 binding site is consistent with that of the dopamine transporter, because drugs with the most selective dopamine reuptake blocking activities are the most potent displacers of [3H]GBR 12935 binding. There is a positive correlation between the rat and human inhibitory constants, a finding indicating that there are similar pharmacological profiles across at least these two species. Rats with a 6-hydroxydopamine lesion had a 47% decrease in number of [3H]GBR 12935 binding sites, a result indicating that at least a portion of these sites had been on presynaptic dopamine terminals.
The neuron-specific synaptic vesicle-associated phosphoproteins synapsin I and synapsin II were shown to contain terminal N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) residues as determined by specific labeling with bovine galactosyltransferase and UDP-[3H]galactose. The beta-elimination of galactosyltransferase radiolabeled synapsin I and subsequent analysis of released saccharide on high-voltage paper electrophoresis confirmed the presence of monosaccharidic GlcNAc moieties in O-linkage to the protein. Partial cleavage of synapsin I by collagenase, 2-nitro-5-thiocyanobenzoic acid, and Staphylococcus aureus V8 protease suggests that at least three glycosylation sites exist along the molecule. Taken together these data present the first evidence that a neuron-specific protein contains O-glycosidically bound GlcNAc.

1. The direct retinal input pathway to the basal optic nucleus (BON), the primary nucleus of the turtle accessory optic system, was characterized physiologically. We tested the hypothesis that directional information encoded in retinal ganglion cells can influence the BON via a direct pathway. Using an in vitro whole-brain, eyes-attached preparation, we demonstrated the directness of this pathway by 1) antidromic activation of retinal ganglion cells from the contralateral BON and 2) orthodromic activation of the BON from the contralateral optic nerve. 2. Of 72 physiologically classified retinal ganglion cells, 9 could be antidromically activated from the contralateral BON with low current (less than 200 micro A). Eight of these cells were direction-sensitive (DS). The ninth cell did not respond to visual stimulus movement. The antidromic latencies ranged from 2.2 to 6.1 ms with a mean of 3.8 ms. These latencies were quite consistent for each cell, having an average SD of 0.08 ms. Moreover, consistent responses could always be recorded at stimulation rates up to 100 Hz. 3. With current stimulation of the contralateral optic nerve, the orthodromic conduction latency of 17 BON single units ranged from 2.5 to 6.6 ms with a mean of 4.6 ms. These latencies were more variable for an individual cell, having an average SD of 0.3 ms. Responses to individual current pulses could never be consistently evoked at stimulation rates greater than 40 Hz. 4. DS responses were recorded in BON single units after the removal of the dorsal midbrain, including the optic tectum and pretectum as well as the telencephalon. Three of these cells were activated orthodromically by current stimulation delivered to the contralateral optic nerve. Thus directional information reaches the BON via a direct projection from the contralateral retina. 5. Visual response properties of DS retinal ganglion cells were compared with those of BON cells to examine the transformations that take place in the brain stem. Applying a limaon model to the responses of both DS retinal ganglion cells and BON cells revealed that both types of cells have very similar direction tuning. However, the distribution of maximally responsive directions in the retina may differ from that of the BON. 6. Because DS retinal ganglion cells project directly to the BON, and because BON cells lose their direction sensitivity after retinal application of GABA antagonists, we conclude that the BON receives essential directional information directly from DS retinal ganglion cells. This directional information in the BON may represent a retinal slip error signal necessary for retinal image stabilization.
Imaging analysis techniques were used to examine changes in the intrinsic optical properties in hippocampal brain slices that occurred during synaptic activity evoked by Schaffer collateral stimulation in CA1. Repetitive synaptic activity was associated with an increase in light transmission in the synaptic region in stratum radiatum. The effect was seen at wavelengths of light between 450 and 800 nm but was of greater amplitude at longer wavelengths. Blocking synaptic transmission with either Ca(2+)-free EGTA perfusate or kynurenic acid (an excitatory amino acid antagonist) blocked the optical signal, indicating that it resulted from postsynaptic activation of the cells and was not due to presynaptic fiber volleys or transmitter release alone. Because the optical changes were blocked by reducing extracellular Cl- (by replacement with gluconate) or by furosemide (an anion transport inhibitor), increased Cl- transport (conceivably Na-K-2Cl cotransport) may generate these signals possibly by causing cellular swelling and thereby less light scattering. These optical changes were not blocked, however, by bicarbonate-free solution, indicating that bicarbonate transport may not be involved. Changes in the intrinsic optical signal could be related to glial swelling due to K+ released during neuronal activity because high-K(+)-induced swelling of cultured astrocytes is blocked by furosemide and low-Cl- solution. Intrinsic optical signals of neuronal tissue should be considered when voltage- or ion-sensitive dyes are used.
The release and synthesis of norepinephrine (NE) in hippocampus were measured in naive and chronically cold-stressed rats in response to acute tail-shock stress. Using in vivo microdialysis, it was determined that the basal extracellular concentrations of NE and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) in hippocampus were the same in the two groups. However, 30 min of intermittent tail shock produced a greater elevation of extracellular NE and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid in the chronically cold-stressed rats than in the native controls. In hippocampus, the extracellular concentration of DOPAC may reflect NE biosynthesis, and thus the enhanced DOPAC response in the chronically stressed rats suggests an increase in NE synthesis. In order to investigate this possibility, two further methods of assessing NE biosynthesis were employed. Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) activity was assayed in vitro in the presence of saturating concentrations of cofactor. No change in maximal TH activity could be detected in hippocampus of chronically cold-stressed rats. In addition, the in vivo rate of tyrosine hydroxylation in cold-stressed rats was measured by the accumulation of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine in tissue following inhibition of aromatic amino acid decarboxylase. It was found that, whereas basal synthesis was the same in both groups of rats, synthesis accompanying a novel stressor was increased to a greater extent in the chronically stressed rats.
Although dopamine (DA)-containing neurons participate in a number of important cerebral functions, the physiology of their synaptic connections is poorly understood. By using whole-cell patch-clamp recording in thin slices of rat mesencephalon, we have investigated the biophysical properties of synaptic events and the nature of neurotransmitter(s) and receptors involved in the synaptic input to DA neurons in substantia nigra. The histological and electrophysiological characteristics of these cells were consistent with those described by recent in vivo and in vitro studies, thus allowing their unequivocal identification. Under appropriate experimental conditions, intranigral stimulation produced excitatory synaptic inputs in DA neurons. By voltage-clamp analysis, most of these excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) had a rise time of about 1.0 msec and a decay phase that could be fit by the sum of two exponential curves so that a fast and a slow component could be distinguished. The slow component was enhanced by glycine, by removing Mg2+ from the bath medium, or by membrane depolarization. Moreover, the slow component was consistently decreased by selective antagonists of NMDA receptors, whereas an antagonist for the non-NMDA receptors abolished the fast component slightly affecting the slow component and reduced peak EPSC amplitude. The results indicate that both NMDA-sensitive and non-NMDA-sensitive glutamate receptors contribute to EPSCs of DA neurons. Therefore, it is suggested that these receptors may play a critical role in the physiology (control of excitability, pacemaker firing, and dendritic DA release) as well as pathology (neuronal death in Parkinson's disease, psychosis, and mechanism of action of drugs of abuse, such as ethanol) related to DA neurons.
Acetylcholine is present in a majority of submucosal neurons which project to the intestinal epithelium. In this study, we examined the role of acetylcholine and the actions of cholinomimetic drugs, such as carbachol (CCH), on ion transport across muscle-stripped sheets of mucosa-submucosa from the proximal jejunum of weaned piglets. Serosal administration of CCH (10 nM-100 microM) produced rapid increases in short-circuit current (Isc) which were attributed to net Cl secretion. Acetylcholine, bethanechol and (4-hydroxy-2-butynyl)-1-trimethylammonium m-chlorocarbanilate chloride were partially effective in increasing Isc. Atropine and selective muscarinic cholinergic antagonists produced dextral shifts in the CCH concentration-effect relationship with an order of relative potency of 4-diphenylacetoxy-N-methyl piperidine methiodide (4-DAMP) greater than atropine much greater than pirenzepine greater than 11-[[[2-(diethylamino)methyl]-1-piperidinyl]acetyl]-5, 11-dihydro-6H-pyrido[2,3-b][1,4]benzodiazepine-6-one(AF-DX116). The muscarinic receptor blocker [3H]quinuclidinyl benzilate (QNB) bound specifically and saturably to two sites in the mucosa-submucosa having equilibrium dissociation constants of approximately 10 +/- 3 and 890 +/- 120 pM and Bmax = 7 +/- 3 and 47 +/- 9 fmol/mg protein, respectively. Selective cholinergic antagonists competed for [3H]QNB binding with a rank order of affinity of 4-DAMP greater than hexahydrosiladifenidol much greater than AF-DX 116 greater than or equal to pirenzepine. Specific [3H]QNB binding sites were autoradiographically localized in the jejunal wall to the epithelium, submucosa, and muscularis propria. Electrical transmural stimulation (10-300 pulses/10 sec, 0.5 msec duration, 60 V stimulus strength) delivered to mucosal sheets produced tetrodotoxin-sensitive Isc elevations which were proportional to the number of impulses delivered. Mucosal Isc responses to electrical stimulation were attenuated by 10 microM hexamethonium, 1 microM atropine or autotachyphylaxis to CCH. Tetrodotoxin, at 0.1 microM, produced a 20-fold increase in the secretory potency of CCH. These results suggest that acetylcholine released from intramural neurons in porcine proximal jejunum produces transepithelial Cl secretion. Its effects may be mediated through interactions with two populations of muscarinic cholinergic receptors, located on neuronal and non-neuronal cells within the intestinal mucosa and submucosa, which serve to inhibit and promote Cl secretion respectively.
The alteration of endogenous opiate alkaloids during fasting state was investigated in rats. The concentrations of morphine and codeine in the cortex, midbrain, pons plus medulla, cerebellum, adrenal gland and pancreas were measured using radioimmunoassay for the opiates following high pressure liquid chromatography. The morphine and codeine contents of fasting rats showed maximum elevated levels in cortex, pons plus medulla and pancreas after 2 days of fasting, but after 1 day in midbrain. The opiate content of the cerebellum showed a tendency for a continuous increase during the 4 days. Adrenal glands of fasting rats had elevated levels at days 3 and 4, although there were great fluctuations within the groups.
The accumulation of 5 nM d-[3H]amphetamine (d-[3H]AMPH) into rat brain synaptosomes was examined using physiological buffer conditions. The accumulation of d-[3H]AMPH into striatal synaptosomes was saturable, of high affinity, ouabain-sensitive and temperature-dependent, suggesting an active transport phenomenon. Eadee-Hofstee analysis of striatal d-[3H]AMPH transport (AMT) saturation isotherms indicated an apparent Km of 97 nM and a Vmax of 3.0 fmol/mg tissue/min. Lesion of the striatal dopaminergic innervation led to equivalent decreases of [3H] dopamine (DA) transport and AMT, indicating that AMT occurs in DA terminals. Furthermore, AMT was not evident in cerebral cortex, a brain region with a paucity of DA terminals. In competition studies, AMT was stereospecific; d-AMPH (IC50 = 60 nM) was an 8-fold more potent inhibitor of the transport than its I-isomer (IC50 = 466 nM). DA(IC50 = 257 nM), DA uptake blockers and substrates were found to be potent inhibitors of AMT: GBR12909 IC50 = 5 nM; methamphetamine IC50 = 48 nM; methylphenidate IC50 = 53 nM; and cocaine IC50 = 172 nM. In contrast, serotonin was relatively weak in inhibiting AMT (IC50 = 7.9 microM). There was a highly significant (P less than .001; slope = 1.2) linear correlation between the AMT-inhibiting potencies of AMPH analogs and their potencies in stimulating locomotor activity in rodents. AMT may be important in the low dose effects of AMPH such as increased locomotor activity in rodents and stimulant activity in man. Differences between AMT and d-[3H]AMPH sequestration described earlier, as well as their possible relevance to behavioral and neurochemical sequelae of AMPH administration are also discussed.
Previous studies have identified a saturable site of d-[3H]amphetamine sequestration (AMSEQ) in rat brain synaptosomes. The present study characterized AMSEQ with respect to its subcellular, neuronal and regional distributions, ontogenetic development, pharmacological specificity and factors required for its maintenance. Although AMSEQ was reduced when assays were performed in Krebs' buffer incubated at 37 degrees C as compared to assays performed in isotonic Tris-sucrose buffer incubated at room temperature, the pharmacological profiles of AMSEQ were virtually identical under both conditions. AMSEQ was negligible in tissues outside the central nervous system, enriched in synaptosomes and partially reduced by striatal kainic acid lesion, indicating neuronal localization. The distribution of AMSEQ in the central nervous system was heterogenous. Highest levels were present in hypothalamus with progressively lower levels noted in parietal cortex, frontal cortex, striatum, thalamus, hippocampus, midbrain, cerebellum, pons-medulla and spinal cord. With regard to its ontogeny, AMSEQ increased early in neonatal life, reaching adult levels by postnatal day 14. Although the effects of amphetamine to abolish the transynaptosomal pH gradient suggest a possible role for this gradient in the maintenance of AMSEQ, the pharmacological profile of AMSEQ indicates that other factors are involved. An interaction with an intrasynaptosomal acid, such as N-acetylaspartate, may account for AMSEQ maintenance. AMSEQ did not possess a stereospecific preference for either d-(IC50 = 177 microM) or I-amphetamine (IC50 = 173 microM). However, the pharmacological profile of AMSEQ indicated structural specificity with antidepressants being relatively potent inhibitors. The saturation analysis and pharmacological characteristics of AMSEQ (i.e., low affinity and lack of stereospecificity) suggest that AMSEQ may be related to high dose, nonstereospecific effects of amphetamine, such as stereotypy in rats and psychosis in humans. The relative high potency of antidepressants in inhibiting AMSEQ suggests the importance of this phenomenon in the therapeutic effects of these drugs. Furthermore, the link between antidepressants and AMSEQ may provide insight into the comorbidity of major depression and drug abuse.
N-ethoxycarbonyl-2-ethoxy-1,2-dihydroquinoline (EEDQ), an irreversible and nonselective protein-modifying reagent, has been used extensively in studies involving inactivation of receptors. Here, we present N-(p-isothiocyanatophenethyl)spiperone (NIPS), a novel and highly selective irreversible inactivator of D2 but not D1 receptors. In in vitro studies, NIPS exhibited an apparent Ki of 10 nM for [3H]methylspiperone binding to D2 receptors in rat striatum. Preincubation of the striatal membranes with NIPS followed by extensive washing resulted in up to an 80% reduction of the D2 receptor maximum binding (Bmax). Coincubation with the D2 receptor antagonist domperidone could protect against this reduction. NIPS was additionally shown to irreversibly inactivate D2 receptor binding activity in cultured cells expressing the D2 receptor protein. In in vivo administration studies, using [3H]SCH 23390 and [3H]spiperone to assay D1 and D2 receptors in vitro, 24 hr after injection (s.c.) with 5 to 40 mg/kg of NIPS D2 receptor, Bmax was decreased by 58 to 76%, without a change in D2 receptor affinity. In contrast, there was no effect on D1 receptor Bmax or affinity. There was also a small (24%) reduction in frontal cortex 5-hydroxytryptamine2 receptors by 20 mg/kg of NIPS. However, there was no effect on alpha-1 or alpha-2 adrenergic receptors in the frontal cortex, or on muscarinic cholinergic or 5-hydroxytryptamine1A receptors in the hippocampus. After single doses of either 20 mg/kg of NIPS or 10 mg/kg of EEDQ, the D2 receptor recovery rate was much slower after NIPS (half-time of receptor recovery = 170 hr) than after EEDQ (half-time of receptor recovery = 76.7 hr).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The loss of ovulatory cyclicity in many mammals is caused by changes in the hypothalamic-pituitary (H-P) control of the preovulatory luteinizing hormone (LH) surge. This work evaluated the anterior pituitary (AP) component of the H-P axis by determining the ability of perifused AP to release LH following sustained but pulsatile LHRH stimulation. The normal dual discharge profile of LH was affected by age. The first hour of the response, unaffected by cycloheximide, was similar in 5-6-month-old (mature), 12-13-month-old (declining litters) and 16-18-month-old (irregularly cycling) mice. The remaining protein synthesis-dependent part of the response was reduced in the 16-18 and 22-24-month-old (anestrus) mice. The role of estradiol (E2) in AP aging was further tested as AP from ovariectomized (OVXed) mice, deprived of E2 since puberty, responded as well as the mature proestrous group. In contrast, aged mice subjected to long-term E2 exposure (cycling or OVXed plus E2 replacement) failed to produce the dual response pattern. Since alterations in LH response occurred during the protein-dependent phase, synthetic processes that involve packaging and transport of stored LH, or the production of new LH, may be affected by age. Furthermore, E2 is a major factor in altering LH function and appears to act before middle age.
The permeability-surface area product (PA) of [3H]- or [14C]sucrose at the blood-nerve barrier (BNB) of the sciatic nerve; and at the blood-brain barrier (BBB), were determined in Fischer-344 rats at 3, 11 and 31 months of age. PA was determined by using an in vivo i.v. bolus injection of radiotracer with two-time point graphic and quantitative autoradiographic methods. Vascular space and water content of the tibial nerve of these rats also were determined using quantitative morphometry and dry and wet weight ratios, respectively. There was no significant difference between mean PA(BNB) in any age group [(PA(BNB) at 3 months = 1.2 +/- 0.1 (mean +/- S.E.), at 11 months = 1.8 +/- 0.3; and at 31 months = 1.4 +/- 0.2 x 10(5) ml/s . g wet wt; n = 5-8 rats], nor any difference in PA(BBB). The mean ratio (%) of surface area of endoneurial blood vessels/nerve cross-section of the tibial nerve also did not differ between any group [3 months: 16 +/- 2 vessels; mean surface area ratios = 2.20 +/- 0.10%, n = 5; 11 months: 22 +/- 3 vessels and 2.48 +/- 0.21%, n = 5; 11 months: 22 +/- 3 vessels and 2.48 +/- 0.21%, n = 5; and at 31 months: 26 +/- 1 vessels and 2.40 +/- 0.23%, n = 4). The mean nerve water in rats at 31 months was 64.8 +/- 1.1% wet wt and did not differ from that at 11 months (66.0 +/- 0.6% wet wt) or at 3 months (65.1 +/- 1.0% wet wt) (n = 5-8 nerves). Our results indicate that BBB and BNB integrities are not altered in senescent Fischer-344 rats.
It has been suggested that one of the effects of glycine at the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor complex is to reduce the amount of apparent receptor desensitization. Thus, blockade with a glycine site antagonist results in NMDA responses that show an increased amount of fade. In agreement with this, we found that antagonism of NMDA-evoked whole-cell currents by 7-chlorokynurenic acid (7-Cl-KYNA) indeed resulted in NMDA responses that displayed an increased amount of fade. However, those responses that were antagonized by (+)-HA-966 showed the opposite, i.e., less tendency to fade. On examination of these responses, it appeared that those produced in the presence of (+)-HA-966 were slower in onset and faster in offset than control responses recorded in the presence of glycine alone. Kinetic analysis of the on- and off-rates of NMDA- and glutamate-evoked NMDA receptor-mediated responses revealed that these were markedly affected by (+)-HA-966 but only slightly by 7-Cl-KYNA. The decrease of the glutamate response decay time constant and the increase of the response rise time constant produced by (+)-HA-966 indicated that it reduced the affinity of glutamate for its recognition site on the NMDA receptor by 5-fold. These results suggest that binding of (+)-HA-966 to the glycine site on the NMDA receptor complex produces an allosteric reduction in the affinity of agonists for the glutamate recognition site, whereas 7-Cl-KYNA has relatively little effect and, thus, acts more as a pure antagonist at the glycine site.
Pain pathways in the spinal cord transmit information about actual or impending tissue damage. There are parallel pathways to both the medial (motivational-affective) and lateral (sensory-discriminative) portions of the system. Endogenous systems modulate pain transmission and ultimately pain perception. These modulatory systems can be accessed pharmacologically by naturally occurring neurotransmitters and neuromodulators. Research is being done to identify receptor specific agents that selectively inhibit pain and do not interfere with processing of other information.
The effects of age were assessed on the ability of male Fischer-344 rats to acquire a classically conditioned eyeblink using the &quot;delay&quot; paradigm. Using a 350 ms white noise conditioning stimulus and a 100 ms coterminating periorbital shock (2 mA, 60 Hz, AC) we have demonstrated that these rats exhibit deficits as early as middle age. Middle-aged and senescent rats (18 and 30 months) exhibited significantly fewer conditioned responses than young rats (3 and 12 months). Since all of the rats responded to a test noise, and there were no differences in threshold to evoke a blink, this result is likely to be due to an associative deficit. Thus, our results indicate that eyeblink conditioning in the freely moving rat is a useful model system for behavioral and neurobiological analyses of the effects of age on associative learning and memory.
N-Methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated responses were studied in hippocampus, cortex, and striatum of Fischer 344 rats of various ages (3-5, 12-14, or 24-28 months old; young, middle-aged, and senescent or old, respectively) to determine whether aging alters the function of NMDA receptors. NMDA-induced inhibition of muscarinic-stimulated phosphoinositide hydrolysis in hippocampus, and NMDA-stimulated release of [3H]norepinephrine (NE) or [3H]dopamine (DA) were used as indices of NMDA receptor function. The muscarinic agonist carbachol (1 mM) stimulated PI hydrolysis in hippocampi from all three age groups with no significant differences between the groups. NMDA inhibited the carbachol-evoked PI response in a concentration-dependent manner (10-100 microM) in all age groups. However, the NMDA-induced (100 microM) inhibition of the carbachol-stimulated response was markedly reduced in an age-dependent manner with losses of 25% and 53% in middle-aged and senescent rats compared to young. Concentration-effect curves for NMDA-stimulated [3H]NE release were determined using hippocampal and cortical slices from rats of the three age groups. In the hippocampus the maximal response for NMDA was significantly decreased from 6.55 fractional [3H]NE release in young to 4.51 and 4.18 in middle-aged and old rats, respectively, with no age-related changes in the potency of NMDA or slope of the curves. In cortical slices the maximal response was significantly reduced in an age-dependent manner by 23% in the senescent rats compared to the young rats. NMDA-stimulated [3H]DA release from striatal slices was significantly lower in the senescent rats at concentrations of NMDA from 500-2000 microM.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The biochemical and pharmacological properties of [3H]MK-801 binding to the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-channel in homogenates of mouse, guinea pig and dog brain, dog cerebral cortex and rat spinal cord were determined using radioligand binding techniques. Specific [3H]MK-801 binding increased linearly with increasing tissue concentration and in general represented 80-93% of the total binding at 6-8 nM radioligand concentration. [3H]MK-801 interacted with brain and spinal homogenates with high affinity. The dissociation constants (KD) for all tissues studied were similar ranging between 7.9 and 11.9 nM, whereas the maximum number of binding sites (Bmax) showed a wide, tissue-dependent range (0.1-6.75 pmol/mg protein). The rank order of tissue enrichment was found to be as follows: mouse brain much greater than dog cerebral cortex much greater than dog brain much greater than guinea pig brain much greater than rat spinal cord. Specific [3H]MK-801 binding in rodent and dog brain, dog cerebral cortex and rat spinal cord exhibited a similar pharmacological profile (correlation coefficients = 0.93-0.99). The rank order of potency of unlabelled compounds competing for [3H]MK-801 binding was: (+)MK-801 greater than (-)MK-801 greater than phencyclidine greater than (-)cyclazocine much greater than (+)cyclazocine greater than or equal to ketamine greater than (+)N-allyl-N-normetazocine greater than (-)N-allyl-N-normetazocine greater than (-)pentazocine greater than (+)pentazocine. NMDA, Kainate, quisqualate and several other compounds failed to inhibit [3H]MK-801 binding at 100 microM.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We reviewed the histories of patients seen in a large Parkinson's disease clinic from 1983 to 1989 to determine if there is a relationship between the timing of initiation of levodopa therapy and the development of motor response fluctuations, dyskinesias, and dementia. There were no factors predisposing to the development of response fluctuations or dementia. Younger age at disease onset predisposed to the development of dyskinesia. Dyskinesias occurred in a greater proportion of patients in whom the initiation of levodopa therapy was delayed by more than 2 years from disease diagnosis than among those in whom treatment was started earlier. We thus failed to identify any adverse consequences of early levodopa treatment in our patient population.
We examined the arrangement and development of identified neurons in zebrafish embryos homozygous for the mutation spt-1, which acts autonomously and specifically to alter the development of precursors of trunk segmented mesoderm, resulting in muscle-deficient myotomes. We found that the mutation alters the morphology, number, and arrangement of identified motoneurons. By transplanting identified motoneurons between wild-type and mutant embryos, we found that the effect of the mutation was nonautonomous. We suggest that the segmental arrangement and proper axonal development of motoneurons may result from interactions with segmented mesoderm.
To determine whether postmigratory neural crest cells retain the capacity to give rise to multiple cell types, the clonal progeny of embryonic rat superior cervical ganglion (SCG) cells were examined in culture. Double labeling with BrdU and neurofilament antibodies demonstrated that neuron precursors from the E14.5 SCG continued to proliferate for several days in culture. Using the BAG retrovirus to examine the progeny of single cells, we obtained several kinds of distinct clones from SCG cultures after 3 days. At E14.5, during peak neurogenesis in vivo, neuron-containing clones composed of one to seven cells were common. At E17.5, after neurons have been born in vivo, most clones in vitro contained flat cells, primarily reflecting glial cell division. Even in cultures from E13.5 ganglia, mixed clones containing neurons and flat cells were rarely observed. These observations suggest that neuronal and nonneuronal cell precursors are specified during or before early gangliogenesis.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by extensive synaptic and neuronal loss and by plaque formation in the cortex, but the mechanisms responsible for synaptic plasticity in the neocortex are still not completely understood. To analyze the sprouting response in AD cortex, we compared the patterns of GAP-43 with synaptophysin immunoreactivity. In AD, GAP-43 immunohistochemistry revealed extensive sprouting in the hippocampal molecular layer, stratum polymorphous, CA1 region, and prosubiculum. These regions presented abundant anti-GAP-43-immunoreactive coiled fibers and dystrophic neurites in association with plaques. Some of these sprouting structures were colocalized with anti-synapto-physin- and anti-neurofilament-positive neurites. The AD neocortex was characterized by an overall decrease in GAP-43 immunoreactivity accompanied by sprouting neurites in the areas of synaptic pathology. We conclude that GAP-43 might be involved in the mechanisms of synaptic plasticity in the AD cortex, as well as in the process of aberrant sprouting in the neuritic plaques.
Catecholaminergic neurons were characterized by reaction with antiserum to tyrosine hydroxylase, by shape and location and by dendritic ramifications. In this population of cells in the ventrolateral medulla (VLM), the dendritic spines of fusiform and triangular neurons increased with gestational age and rapidly diminished after birth. However, in SIDS, the spines persisted notably in neurons in the VLM but also in the reticular formation and vagal nuclei. These findings suggest a delay in neuronal maturation and may be related to developmental disorders of respiratory, circulatory or sleep-wake regulation.
Ketamine and MK-801 are phencyclidine (PCP)-like noncompetitive antagonists of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor that produce a use-dependent blockade of the NMDA receptor-coupled channel. Recent studies have suggested that the binding properties of these drugs to the NMDA receptor in-vitro are different. In the present study, the effects of ketamine and MK-801 on the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) were compared at perforant path--granule cell synapses in anaesthetized rats. LTP was observed in animals treated with either saline or MK-801, but not in those treated with ketamine. These results reveal that ketamine and MK-801 differentially modulate the induction of LTP, and we propose that this differential modulation may be related to the different binding properties of the drugs.


The responses of 8 wide-dynamic-range (WDR) STT neurons to electrical stimulation of the sensorimotor cortex or the cerebral peduncle were recorded intracellularly in anesthetized monkeys. EPSPs and spikes were evoked in STT neurons with short latencies ranging from 0.4 to 5.3 msec after the corticospinal volley, indicating a monosynaptic connection in at least some STT neurons. Spatial and temporal summation seem necessary for the cortex to maintain an effective excitatory influence on STT neurons. It is postulated that the cortical facilitation of STT neurons helps them to acquire more nociceptive signals during behavioral tasks such as exploring a new object so that the brain can make decisions about whether to continue or to abandon a certain task. Possible implications for central pain states are discussed.
The case reports of 4 pediatric patients illustrate the complex clinical scenarios in which childhood rhabdomyolysis/myoglobinuria occurs. Children ranged in age from 8-18 years. Presumed etiologies of rhabdomyolysis/myoglobinuria included Neisseria sepsis, exertion-related episodes, dialysis disequilibrium, and diabetic ketoacidosis. No child developed respiratory or renal failure. all children were discharged with normal muscle power, indicating the benign nature of this disease and the importance of aggressive management.
Based on neuroimaging and autopsy research, in autism no common site or type of abnormality appears in the cerebral hemispheres, thalamus, lenticular nuclei, and caudate nucleus. Nonetheless, further imaging and autopsy studies on this issue can be anticipated. Limbic system abnormalities have been reported at autopsy by one laboratory but not another, and no abnormality was found by the one quantitative MR study to measure a limbic structure. More autopsy and imaging research on the limbic system is needed. The cerebellum is the only anatomical structure for which there is both imaging and autopsy evidence of abnormality based on data gathered by many laboratories. Also, the only autopsy study to conduct statistical analyses of cerebellar cell loss found statistically significant Purkinje cell loss in both the vermis and hemispheres. Despite this, normal findings on routine radiologic examination are not of diagnostic significance at this time. On the one hand, the autopsy data show that most, if not all, autistic individuals have cerebellar cell loss, but on the other, research shows that MR images of the cerebellum in a substantial proportion of autistic individuals (perhaps 20% to 50%) will be indistinguishable from normal. Thus, it is likely that MR technology is not yet sufficiently sensitive to detect cerebellar abnormalities in all autistic persons who have them. Finally, the cerebellum seems an unlikely site of damage for a developmental disorder of higher cognition such as autism. However, new neurophysiologic and neuropsychologic studies of children with hemicerebellar resections and children with hemicerebellar resections and children with autism present an entirely new picture of the role of the cerebellum in normal human cognition in general and in the development of the social and communication deficits in autism in particular. These studies show that autistic subjects and patients with acquired cerebellar damage are unable to rapidly shift their mental focus of attention.
Two distinct binding sites for [125I]human calcitonin gene-related peptide (hCGRP) were found in rat brain, skeletal muscle, and liver. Each tissue had a high affinity site with an average Kd of 46 pM and a low affinity site with an average Kd of 22 nM. Islet amyloid polypeptide (IAPP), which has N- and C-terminal sequence homology to CGRP and is produced by islet beta-cells, bound to both sites but had a potency closer to that of CGRP at the low affinity binding site. A C-terminal fragment of IAPP competed for [125I]hCGRP binding at the low affinity site with potency comparable to that of hIAPP. No specific binding to membrane preparations was found in experiments using [125I]rIAPP, which was iodinated at the C-terminal tyrosyl residue. These results suggest that some of the previously reported biological effects occurring at nM or microM concentrations of IAPP may be mediated by IAPP binding to low affinity CGRP receptors. This study further indicates that the C-terminal region of IAPP is important for binding to low affinity CGRP receptors, and suggests that C-terminal fragments of IAPP may be of biological importance.
Monosodium glutamate (MSG) is widely considered to enhance the flavor of beef, chicken, fish, and vegetables. This effect may be due to the interaction of glutamate with free amino acids or other basic taste stimuli present in these foods. A single-bottle test was used in order to test the preference of Old World monkeys for an extended array of gustatory stimuli individually and in combination with MSG. Six male cynomolgus monkeys, maintained on an 18-h water deprivation schedule, were given 30 min access daily to a sapid stimulus or distilled water. The following stimuli (selected on the basis of prior experimentation) were tested alone and in combination with 0.03 M MSG: sucrose, fructose, glucose, maltose, polycose, sodium saccharin, glycine, sodium chloride, hydrochloric acid, tartaric acid, malic acid, citric acid, quinine hydrochloride, urea, and beef broth. The L-isomers of the following free amino acids also were tested: alanine, histidine, phenylalanine, proline, serine, valine. The addition of MSG to the stimuli listed above had no significant effect upon the monkeys' preference or aversion thresholds. Most suprathreshold stimuli that the monkeys neither preferred nor avoided were unaffected by the addition of MSG. The monkeys' preference for sugars was adversely affected in mixtures containing MSG, but other stimuli that humans report to be sweet tasting (alanine, glycine, polycose) were unaffected. The data from the present experiment demonstrate that MSG was capable of altering the monkeys' preference for some but not all of the gustatory stimuli tested.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A thrombogenic microballoon was developed to overcome the problems of cerebral aneurysm rupture during microballoon inflation and incomplete aneurysm obliteration by microballoons with subsequent fatal rupture. These complications occur in about 35% of reported series with current microballoon embolization techniques. The wall of the new thrombogenic microballoon allows 80% aneurysm occlusion by inflation, thus avoiding mechanical rupture, and at the same time it produces a blood clot in the space remaining between the microballoon and the aneurysm wall. This clot undergoes fibrosis with firm adherence of the microballoon to the aneurysm wall. Experimental evidence is presented to support these conclusions. This thrombogenic microballoon system is also applicable to carotid-cavernous fistulas and arteriovenous malformations.
Anterior pituitary cells that contain adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) are morphologically and functionally heterogeneous. Immunolabeling has identified stellate subtypes with scattered or peripherally arranged granules, and ovoid or irregularly shaped cells with a denser accumulation of granules, which overlap morphologically with other cell types such as small gonadotropes or thyrotropes. Dual cytochemical labeling studies on the same or serial fields have identified cells that store ACTH with LH, FSH, TSH, or prolactin. Evidence is presented to suggest that they are multipotential cells with the capacity to augment corticotropes or one of the other cell populations.

This survey is a personal account of the present status of neuroscience in Yugoslavia within the context of recent upheavals in Eastern Europe. The current situation in Yugoslavia, characterized by the absence of a Federal Ministry of Science and a poor scientific communication between federal states (republics), does not allow a comprehensive overview of neuroscience at the federal level. Even more difficult is to envisage the prospects of Yugoslav neuroscience in the light of European integration. Several problems serve to illustrate the present situation concerning Yugoslav neuroscience. First, the weakness of the self-organization of science in Yugoslavia during the past 20 years is still the most important denominator in the current trend of neuroscience. Second, different Yugoslav republics have significantly different systems of science funding and evaluation, which reflect very plainly different levels of democratic (and socioeconomic) changes that were attained during 1990. Third, due to the different numbers of trained scientists, facilities and equipment, funds and levels of international scientific cooperation there are major differences between republics in the tempo of progress towards real achievements in science. Finally, the present explosive development of neuroscience and the proclamation of the 'Decade of the Brain' will hopefully stimulate Yugoslav neuroscientists to seek better programmes of neuroscience research and to improve the extent and quality of international cooperation.
Ganglion cell activity in response to drifting or alternating stimulus patterns was recorded in an eyecup preparation of the turtle. The stimuli were sinusoidal gratings with various spatial frequencies and spatial phases. Spike histograms of the activity were Fourier-analyzed. The results indicated that the retinal circuitry always functioned in a nonlinear manner. The average, first, and second harmonics of the activity were all a function of stimulus conditions, including spatial phase. Similar outcomes were obtained with full-field (retina-wide) and a small-field (1 mm diameter) stimulation. In the middle of the spatial-frequency range, the ratio of second to first harmonic activity was higher in response to static, contrast-reversing gratings than for drifting, constant-contrast ones. The findings suggest that, as distinct from the usual X, Y, and W segregation of ganglion cell properties in other retinas, there is a single class of cells whose responses seem to have attributes of one or another of the usual categories depending on stimulus characteristics. This may be the result of a degree of stimulus-dependent functional modification in the retinal input circuitry to the turtle ganglion cells.



Sex-related difference was observed in the levels of total cytochrome P-450 (P-450) and the mono-oxygenase activity mediated by P-450(b,e), namely, aminopyrine N-demethylase and morphine N-demethylase activity in rat brain microsomes. Male rat brain had higher activity of the above enzymes as compared to the female rat brain. On the other hand, P-450(c,d) mediated 7-ethoxycoumarin O-deethylase and benzo(a)pyrene hydroxylase activity showed no sex-related difference in rat brain. Administration of testosterone elevated the levels of total P-450, aminopyrine N-demethylase and morphine N-demethylase in female rat brain to levels comparable with that of the male rat brain. No significant change was observed in the levels of 7-ethoxycoumarin O-deethylase and benzo(a)pyrene hydroxylase and NADPH cytochrome c reductase. All of the above enzyme levels were unaffected in the male rat brain following the treatment with testosterone. These results indicate that testosterone may regulate the forms of cerebral P-450 that are associated with the sex-related difference observed in rat brain.
Multiple lines of evidence implicate the excitatory amino acids (EAAs) (L-aspartate (L-Asp) and L-glutamate (L-Glu) as excitatory transmitters in the spinal cord. The specific objective of this study was to determine whether the EAAs are released from primary afferents. Dorsal root ganglia (DRG) from 2 to 18-day-old rats dissected and cultured for 1-2 weeks were washed in modified Ringers recording solution for a period of 1 h to allow equilibration. The mean +/- S.E.M. baseline concentrations of EAAs recovered during a 5 min interval were 533.29 +/- 65.59 nmol for L-Glu and 106.67 +/- 14.05 nmol for L-Asp. Stimulation of DRG organotypic cultures with potassium resulted in a significant concentration-dependent increase in the release of both EAAs. The concentration of Asp increased to 166 +/- 17% and 203 +/- 13% in response to 5 min exposure of the culture to 25 and 50 mM potassium, respectively. The concentration of Glu increased to 155 +/- 12% and 226 +/- 18% of control in response to the same stimuli. In response to application of 50 mM potassium for 25 min, peak concentrations increased to 465 +/- 53% for Asp and 312 +/- 51% for Glu of the basal concentration. Exposure of the cultures to 1 or 10 microM capsaicin also caused release of both EAAs. The concentrations of Asp and Glu significantly increased to 204 +/- 11% and 165 +/- 15% of basal concentrations, respectively, in response to a 5 min exposure to 1 microM capsaicin. High [K+]e failed to increase the release of EAAs from cultures where DRG cell bodies were removed 72 h prior to release experiments. These results confirm results demonstrating release of EAA from mammalian spinal cord tissues and directly demonstrate for the first time that primary afferent fibers are specifically involved in this release.
[3H]Bremazocine (5 nM), in the presence of excess unlabelled mu and delta opioid ligands labelled two anatomically distinct populations of binding sites in the bovine adrenal medulla; a high density over the peripheral adrenaline-containing region of the medulla and a lower density over the central noradrenaline-containing region. This non-mu, non-delta opioid binding was specific (diprenorphine sensitive) but did not appear to involve classical kappa (kappa 1), sigma or PCP binding sites being insensitive to high concentrations of dynorphin (1-13), 3-PPP or MK-801. A significant proportion of the binding at both locations was however sensitive to competition by U50,488H or metorphamide. These data provide further evidence to support the existence of multiple opioid binding sites in the bovine adrenal medulla.
The developmental determination of primary motoneurons was investigated by transplanting identified motoneurons in embryonic zebrafish to new spinal cord positions. Some cells moved from the new positions in which they were placed back to their original positions, thus it was difficult to evaluate whether they were determined. Among cells that remained in their new positions, those transplanted about 1 hour before axogenesis developed axonal trajectories that were appropriate for their original soma positions, whereas those transplanted 2 to 3 hours before axogenesis developed morphologies appropriate for their new soma positions. These results suggest that motoneuronal identity is determined before axogenesis.
The production of alpha-amidated peptides from their glycine-extended precursors is a two-step process involving the sequential action of two catalytic domains encoded by the bifunctional peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM) precursor. The NH2-terminal third of the PAM precursor contains the first enzyme, peptidylglycine alpha-hydroxylating monooxygenase (PHM), a copper, molecular oxygen, and ascorbate-dependent enzyme. The middle third of the PAM precursor contains the second enzyme, peptidyl-alpha-hydroxyglycine alpha-amidating lyase (PAL). The COOH-terminal third of the PAM precursor encodes a transmembrane domain and a hydrophilic domain that may form a cytoplasmic tail. Antisera to a peptide within the PAL domain were used to identify a 50-kDa protein as the major form of PAL in bovine neurointermediate pituitary granules. This 50-kDa PAL protein was purified and found to begin at Asp434 of bPAM, indicating that it could arise through endoproteolytic cleavage of the bPAM precursor at Lys432-Lys433. With alpha-N-acetyl-Tyr-Val-alpha-hydroxyglycine as the substrate, PAL exhibits a pH optimum of 5.0; enzymatic activity is inhibited by high concentrations of salt but is relatively resistant to thiol reagents and urea. PAL activity is inhibited by EDTA and restored by a number of divalent metals, including Cd2+, Cu2+, Zn2+, and Ca2+. Kinetic studies using alpha-N-acetyl-Tyr-Val-alpha-hydroxyglycine indicate that PAL has a Km of 38 microM and a turnover number of 220/s. Expression vectors encoding only the soluble PHM domain or the PAM precursor from which the PHM domain had been deleted were constructed. hEK293 cells transfected with the PHM vector exhibited a 10-fold increase in secretion of PHM activity with no PHM activity detectable in control or transfected cells. hEK293 cells transfected with the PAL vector exhibited a 2-fold increase in secretion of PAL activity and a 15-fold increase in cellular PAL activity. Most of the PAL activity produced by the transfected cells remained membrane-associated.


This study has identified the range of plasma and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) concentrations of the uncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist dizocilpine (MK-801) required for neuroprotection in the quinolinate-lesioned rat striatum. Dizocilpine was given i.v. as a bolus injection followed by a continuous infusion for 4 h, drug administration starting 30 min after a unilateral, intrastriatal injection of 200 nmol quinolinate. Neurodegeneration was assessed 7 days later in striatal homogenates by measuring the activities of the enzymes choline acetyltransferase and glutamate decarboxylase. Stable plasma levels of dizocilpine were achieved over the 4 h of infusion and the drug appeared rapidly in the CSF to reach steady state levels which were approximately 50% of the corresponding plasma values. When the degree of drug bound to plasma and CSF protein (as determined in in vitro experiments with [3H]dizocilpine) was taken into account, the steady state plasma and CSF concentrations were equivalent, indicating free exchange of dizocilpine between these compartments. A small, but significant, neuroprotective effect with respect to both enzyme markers was obtained with free steady state plasma and CSF concentrations of 24 and 21 nM. A high degree of neuroprotection occurred with steady state plasma and CSF concentrations of 47 and 40 nM, respectively, which was not improved by raising the dizocilpine concentration in these compartments further, indicating a maximal effect. The CSF concentrations required for neuroprotection in this model are close to the known affinity of dizocilpine for the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor as determined in in vitro experiments.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Because of the small size and genetic simplicity of small DNA viruses, parvoviruses would appear to be excellent models for studying viral evolution and adaptation. In an earlier publication we hypothesized the evolution of sequences of cellular &quot;junk&quot; DNA into protective interfering transposons. These transposons would interfere with invading pathogenic viruses by competing with the pathogen DNA for replicative enzymes. We speculated that a small, defective parvovirus, the adeno-associated virus (AAV), which usually requires the presence of a pathogenic helper virus to replicate, may have evolved from such a piece of cellular &quot;junk&quot; DNA. Our theory predicted that AAVs, as a consequence of their defective nature, developed under pressures favoring maintenance of their transposon like qualities. In contrast, disease-causing, autonomous, non-defective parvoviruses such as the B19 agent of humans and the canine parvovirus, even though their origins may have been in cellular DNA, would appear to have developed under totally different evolutionary pressures. In this paper we will present evidence for a common ancestry for the defective and autonomous parvoviruses and discuss the divergent paths this evolution may have taken in establishing the two genera.
The ability of diphenylhydantoin (DPH) to protect against hypoxia-induced neuronal damage was examined using electrophysiological recordings of extracellular evoked potentials from CA1 pyramidal neurons of rat hippocampal slices in vitro. In normal medium, a 15-min hypoxic insult (95% N2/5% CO2) produced rapid and complete loss of Schaffer collateral synaptic transmission, which only recovered to 20% of pre-hypoxia values after 90 min of reoxygenation. DPH (20 microM) bath applied prior to onset of hypoxia slowed the loss of transmission during hypoxia, and led to 75% recovery of evoked potentials upon reoxygenation. Thus, DPH appears to protect against hypoxia-induced loss of synaptic transmission, and may thereby lessen neuronal damage and cognitive dysfunction associated with stroke.
Much recent evidence suggests that the medial prefrontal cortex (PFCm) participates in the development and/or expression of learned, primary bradycardiac adjustments in rabbits. Accordingly, the present experiments were undertaken to determine whether single-unit activity in the precentral agranular and anterior cingulate regions of the PFCm is systematically affected by differential aversive Pavlovian conditioning and, if so, whether such activity is correlated with concomitant heart rate (HR) variables. In these studies, extracellular recordings were made during a training procedure that involved two distinctive, tone conditioned stimuli (CSs); one of these (CS+) was often paired with eye-shock (unconditioned stimulus, US), whereas the other (CS-) was never so paired. Of the 100 spontaneously-active cells whose activity was so evaluated, 74 were found to be tone-responsive and could be classified as belonging to one of 5 subpopulations on the basis of their specific patterns of evoked changes in discharge; additional data suggested that these cells were also generally responsive to the eye-shock US. Regarding the effects of training, the vast majority of cells in these subpopulations showed greater evoked activity changes on CS+, as opposed to CS-, trials, irrespective of the sign (i.e. increase and/or decrease) of their responses. This finding was not confounded by differences in baseline activity preceding CS+ vs CS- trials, which was generally characterized as being both irregular and unrelated to concomitant HR variables; nor could it be attributed to unconditioned responses biases. Thus, the discriminative activity patterns of these cells appeared to reflect the differential Pavlovian contingencies in effect. Moreover, approximately half of these cells exhibited tone-evoked activity changes that were reliably correlated with concomitant HR changes on a trial-by-trial basis. Consequently, the present data indicate that training-induced changes in the CS-evoked activity of PFCm cells are significantly related to aversively conditioned bradycardia in rabbits.
A scopolamine-like delay-dependent impairment in spatial delayed response performance in rhesus monkeys was induced by irrelevant interpolated activity or by using extended retention intervals. Physostigmine readily reversed the effects of scopolamine but had no effect on performance in young monkeys performing an irrelevant distractor task or in monkeys tested using extended retention intervals. Reducing stimulus control did not impair performance and did not alter the dose-response curve for induction of a deficit by scopolamine. Reducing the stimulus presentation time impaired performance across all retention intervals in a way which did not resemble the effect of scopolamine and which disappeared with practice. Our findings do not support the proposal that physostigmine interacts specifically with short-term spatial memory in primates.
In classical trace conditioning, the interstimulus interval (ISI) is equal to the conditioned stimulus (CS) duration plus the trace interval (TI), the interval between CS offset and unconditioned stimulus (US) onset. The Sutton-Barto-Desmond neural-network model of classical conditioning predicts that, with a sufficiently long TI, conditioning will be faster with a CS of relatively long duration than with one of shorter duration. This prediction is illustrated with simulations and tested with the rabbit nictitating membrane response. Animals were trained with a tone CS of 350- or 700-ms duration. The TI was fixed at 300 ms, so that the ISI for the two durations was 650 or 1000 ms, respectively. Another factor in the experimental design was tone intensity (63 or 83 dB). Consistent with the model's prediction, conditioning was faster with the longer ISI, but only with the louder tone. The results have implications for computational models of classical conditioning.
As part of an investigation of ritanserin-induced receptor down-regulation, monoamine and metabolite levels in rat frontal cortex were measured following chronic ritanserin (2 mg/kg per day) or clorgyline (10 mg/kg per day) administration. Clorgyline increased 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) by 83%, noradrenaline (NA) by 54%, and dopamine (DA) by 16% and decreased 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) by 28%, homovanillic acid (HVA) by 57% and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) by 67%. All these changes were statistically significant (P less than 0.001) except for the increase in DA. Ritanserin increased 5-HT by 30%, NA by 33% and DA by 26% and decreased 5-HIAA by 22%, HVA by 23% and DOPAC by 40%; however, only the increases in 5-HT and NA reached statistical significance (P less than 0.05). Monoamine oxidase (MAO) activity in cortical homogenates was also measured following the chronic ritanserin and clorgyline regimens and also following ritanserin administration in vitro. Chronic clorgyline and ritanserin inhibited MAO activity by 60 and 39%, respectively. In vitro, ritanserin administration at concentrations of less than 10(-6) M had no effect on MAO activity but at doses higher than 10(-6) M, MAO activity was inhibited in a dose-dependent manner from 18 +/- 0.5% at 3 x 10(-6) M to 63 +/- 9% at 10(-4) M. Thus, ritanserin appears to act as an MAO inhibitor in addition to being a 5-HT2 antagonist and this may be related to its ability to induce 5-HT2 receptor down-regulation.
Although the immortalization of human cells is a key step in oncogenic progression, the molecular mechanisms underlying this event are poorly understood. After reviewing the use of chemicals, physical agents, oncogenes and DNA tumor viruses as immortalizing agents, we consider the importance of negative regulators of cell growth (RB and p53), their inactivation, as well as genomic instability in the pathogenesis of cancer. Finally, a molecular model for human cell immortalization that integrates many of the above observations is presented along with supporting evidence.
Although previous studies have reported differences in computed tomography (CT) scan attenuation values between patients with schizophrenia and controls, interpretation of these findings has been hindered by methodological shortcomings such as the failure to control for head size, scanner calibration differences, and other confounding variables. In the present study of CT attenuation values in multiple brain regions in 20 patients with chronic schizophrenia and an equal number of age- and sex-matched normal subjects we controlled for head size and normalized the attenuation values for each scan to an internal standard. No significant differences emerged between the patients with schizophrenia and the controls. However, in the controls only, the mean density of white matter in the left frontal area was significantly higher (t = -2.83, p = 0.01) than that in the right. The results, although possibly suggestive of deviant lateralization in schizophrenia, raise questions about the sensitivity and validity of regional CT attenuation values in detecting subtle anatomic abnormalities in patients with this illness.
We have expressed two forms of the Alzheimer's beta-amyloid precursor protein (beta APP), the 695-amino acid form (695 beta APP), and the 751-amino acid form (751 beta APP) in a baculovirus system. Both forms were expressed as full-length precursor, and were subsequently processed in vivo to release extracellular secreted proteins. The secreted forms were cleaved from the full-length beta APP in a manner analogous to the cleavage of beta APP during constitutive secretion in mammalian cells (Weidemann, A., Knig, G., Bunke, D., Fischer, P., Salbaum, J. M., Masters, C. L., Beyreuther, K. (1989) Cell 57, 115-126; Oltersdorf, T., Ward, P. J., Henriksson, T., Beattie, E. C., Neve, R., Lieberburg, I., and Fritz, L. J. (1990) J. Biol. Chem. 265, 4492-4497). High levels of expression of 20-50 mg/liter were achieved. Both full-length and secreted forms of the beta-amyloid precursor proteins were purified using a combination of ion-exchange and immunoaffinity chromatography using a monoclonal antibody directed against beta APP. The 751 beta APP-derived full-length and secreted forms, which contain the Kunitz protease inhibitor domain, were shown to be as active in the inhibition of trypsin as is mammalian-derived secreted beta APP. The availability of purified full-length beta APP from the baculovirus system will be valuable for biochemical and cell biological analyses that may elucidate the mechanism of the inappropriate processing that leads to beta-amyloid formation in Alzheimer's disease.
Synapsin Ia and synapsin Ib are abundant synaptic vesicle proteins that are derived by differential splicing from a single gene. To identify control elements directing the neuronal expression of synapsins Ia/b, we functionally analyzed the promoter region of the human synapsin I gene. A hybrid gene was constructed containing 2 kilobases of 5' flanking sequence from the synapsin I gene fused to the bacterial gene chloramphenicol acetyltransferase and transfected into 12 different neuronal and nonneuronal cell lines. In general, expression of the chimeric reporter gene showed excellent correlation with endogenous expression of synapsin I in different neuronal cell lines, whereas transcription was low in all nonneuronal cell lines examined. The addition of the simian virus 40 enhancer promoted non-tissue-specific expression. Deletion mutagenesis of the synapsin I promoter revealed the presence of positive and negative sequence elements. A basal (constitutive) promoter that directs reporter gene expression in neuronal and nonneuronal cell lines was mapped to the region -115 to +47. The promoter region from -422 to -22 contains positive elements that upon fusion with the herpes simplex virus thymidine kinase promoter potentiate its transcription in PC12 and neuroblastoma cells but not in Chinese hamster ovary cells.
We have identified and characterized a family of transposable elements in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. The Tc4 transposable element family is present at about 20 copies per haploid genome in the C. elegans Bristol and Bergerac strains. Although Tc4 transposition events have not been observed in these wild-type strains, we have identified Tc4 transposition events in the mut-2 mutant strain TR679, in which the elements Tc1 and Tc3 also transpose at a higher frequency than in the wild type. We determined the sequence of one Tc4 element. This 1.6-kilobase element contains almost perfect inverted terminal repeats of 774 base pairs (bp) with a 57-bp unique internal sequence. Tc4 is a fold-back element, but its long inverted terminal repeats, unlike those of the fold-back elements of other organisms, do not consist of multiple short repeats. In the two cases studied, Tc4 insertion resulted in duplication of a TNA trinucleotide target site. The family of Tc4 elements differs from other C. elegans transposable element families in structure, degree of structural heterogeneity, and target-site specificity.
High-affinity, membrane-associated inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate (IP4) and inositol hexakisphosphate (IP6) binding proteins were solubilized and isolated utilizing a heparin-agarose resin followed by an IP4 affinity resin. The IP6 receptor comprises a protein complex of 115-, 105-, and 50-kDa subunits, all of which comigrate under native conditions. The Kd of the receptor for IP6 is 12 nM, whereas inositol 1,3,4,5,6-pentakisphosphate (IP5), IP4, and inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) are 50%, 30%, and 15%, respectively, as potent. Two protein complexes copurify with the IP4 receptor fraction. A 182/123-kDa complex elutes first from the affinity column followed by a 174/84-kDa protein complex, which elutes at higher salt. Both complexes show high affinity for IP4 (Kd = 3-4 nM). IP5, IP6, and IP3 display approximately 25%, 10%, and 0.1%, respectively, the affinity of IP4. Ligand binding to IP6 and IP4 receptors is inhibited 50% by heparin at 0.1 microgram/ml. IP4 receptor proteins are stoichiometrically phosphorylated by cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase and protein kinase C, whereas negligible phosphorylation is observed for the IP6 receptor.

Layers 3 and 5 of the adult human cerebral cortex contain a very large number of pyramidal neurons that express intense acetylcholinesterase (AChE) enzymatic activity and AChE-like immunoreactivity. The density of these neurons is high in motor, premotor, and neocortical association areas but quite low in paralimbic cortex. These AChE-rich neurons are located predominantly within layer 3 in the premotor and association cortex, within layer 5 in the non-isocortical components of the paralimbic cortex, and are equally prominent in layers 3 and 5 in the motor cortex. Almost all Betz cells in the motor cortex and up to 80% of layer 3 pyramidal neurons in some parts of the association neocortex yield an AChE-rich staining pattern. The existence of a specific laminar and cytoarchitectonic distribution suggests that the AChE-rich enzymatic pattern of these neurons is selectively regulated. The AChE-rich enzymatic reactivity of the layer 3 and layer 5 neurons is not detectable during early childhood, becomes fully established during adulthood, and does not show signs of decline during advanced senescence in mentally intact individuals. The AChE activity (or enzyme synthesis) in these neurons is therefore held in check for several years during infancy and childhood and begins to be expressed at a time when the more advanced motor and cognitive skills are also being acquired. The absence of immunostaining with an antibody to choline acetyltransferase suggests that these AChE-rich neurons are not cholinergic. The regional distribution of these AChE-rich neurons does not parallel the regional variations of cortical cholinergic innervation. Whereas the AChE-rich pyramidal neurons of layers 3 and 5 almost certainly represent one subgroup of cholinoceptive cortical neurons, their AChE-rich enzymatic pattern is probably also related to a host of non-cholinergic processes that may include maturational changes and plasticity in the adult brain.
The specific binding of [3H]hemicholinium-3 ([3H]HCh-3) and high-affinity [3H]choline uptake were measured in rats with status epilepticus induced by lithium and pilocarpine. The specific binding of [3H]HCh-3 in cortex and hippocampus from rats with status epilepticus increased to 2- to 3-fold of control while the striatal [3H]HCh-3 binding increased minimally. Scatchard analyses revealed that the observed changes resulted from an increase in Bmax of [3H]HCh-3 binding. High-affinity [3H]choline uptake remained unchanged. These results further implicate phospholipase A2 in the regulation of [3H]HCh-3 binding sites.
Immunoreactivity for the intermediate filament proteins vimentin and desmin was studied in muscle biopsies of 33 children with neuromuscular diseases and in postmortem muscle of 15 fetuses and neonates at 8-42 weeks gestation. Fetal myotubes exhibited strong reactions for vimentin and desmin; reactivity was still present, though weaker, by 31 weeks and was no longer demonstrable at term. In X-linked myotubular myopathy (5 cases) myofibres showed strong reactivity for both vimentin and desmin; in myotonic dystrophy desmin but not vimentin had strong reactivity in myofibres of neonates and children. A similar but much weaker pattern of desmin reactivity was seen in nemaline rod disease and in congenital muscle fibre-type disproportion. The small myofibres in spinal muscular atrophy were reactive for both vimentin and desmin, as were regenerating myofibres in Duchenne muscular dystrophy and dermatomyositis. Acridine orange fluorochrome distinguished vimentin/desmin-reactive myofibres that were regenerating from those of developmental myopathies because the RNA fluorescence was strong in regenerating myofibres and in fetal myotubes, but was absent from myofibres in developmental disorders of muscle. A failure to regress of fetal cytoskeletal proteins may contribute to the apparent arrest in morphogenesis of myofibres. These stains are useful in studying the muscle biopsies of children with developmental myopathies because they demonstrate an aspect of muscle maturation not detected by standard histochemical methods.
In various progressive muscular dystrophies (PMD), there were a number of fibers with histological and histochemical characteristics of regenerating fibers. With a morphometric analysis in diseased muscles, an identification of type 2C fiber on ATPase stain was the most simple and reliable method for fiber type evaluation. The type 2C fiber comprised 16.5% in Duchenne and 27.5% in Fukuyama type congenital MD, suggesting an active regenerating process taking place in both diseases. Regenerative capacity of muscle fibers after experimental damage to dystrophic chicken and mdx mouse muscles was similar to those seen in nondystrophic control muscles. From the above results, we speculate that a certain environmental factor such as interstitial fibrosis seems to play a major role in delaying regeneration in dystrophic muscles.
Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a fatal X-linked recessive disorder of muscle in children, with an incidence of approximately 1 in 3,300 male births. In about a third of affected boys, the disease is due to a new mutation, and most patients die in their early 20s. Over the last few years, the genetic, biochemical and histopathological basis of DMD has been elucidated greatly. In particular, the discovery of &quot;dystrophin,&quot; the protein product of the DMD gene is truly an epoch-making success in the history of muscular dystrophy research. Dystrophin is now thought to be a cytoskeletal protein underlying the plasma membrane (known in muscle as the sarcolemma) of normal muscle fiber, and is undetectable or greatly reduced in DMD. In this review article, dystrophin in normal skeletal muscle and various neuromuscular diseases including DMD/BMD (Becker muscular dystrophy), and its carrier is discussed.
Ciliated vacuoles and intraepithelial cysts have been observed in oviductal and endocervical epithelia of rabbits. In this study, rabbits under various hormonal conditions were studied by light and transmission electron microscopy and tissue culture in an attempt to determine their distribution and origin. Ciliated vacuoles most frequently lay in the basal cytoplasm, below or beside the nucleus, and very close to the basal lamina. A few were apically located. Their average diameter was 8.8 by 5.1 microns. Cilia and microvilli projected into the vacuolar lumen. These vacuoles were located intracellularly as evidenced first by the degeneration of both their cilia and microvilli and the moderately dense matrix that often filled the vacuolar lumen, as observed by electron microscopy. Secondly, phase microscopy of the living endocervical epithelium allowed us to observe the beating of the cilia within the vacuoles, not on the surface of such cells. Thirdly, ruthenium red stained the surface glycocalyx of ciliated and secretory cells, but not that of the cilia and microvilli within the vacuoles. The intraepithelial cysts were not observed in all tissue blocks. The largest numbers were found in ovariectomized animals treated for 3 and 5 days with estradiol. More were seen in the isthmus and cervix than in the fimbria and ampulla. The cysts were located most often within the epithelium along the sides of, and at the bases of, the mucosal folds. They were lined by flattened epithelium of various combinations of secretory and ciliated cells. An unusual cell type was associated with some of the cysts and ciliated vacuoles. Its cytoplasm contained aggregates of mitochondria and vesicles whose contents varied in density. Although the genesis of the ciliated vacuoles is not certain, our results indicate that they may arise from aberrant positioning of proliferating procentrioles or from a defect in targeting or transporting the centrioles to the apical plasma membrane to serve as basal bodies. Fusion of adjacent ciliated vacuoles with lumina lined by secretory cells having deep apical invaginations appeared to contribute to the formation of cysts.
A 40-year-old man with childhood-onset Tourette syndrome (TS) developed Huntington disease (HD). We believe this to be the first reported case of childhood-onset TS with adult onset HD. Discovery of other cases with both disorders may provide clues to the pathophysiology of both conditions.
Most clinically demented elderly patients are found at autopsy to have Alzheimer's disease, multi-infarct dementia, Parkinson's disease, Pick's disease, or Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. We studied 5 patients clinically characterized by late onset dementia whose brains showed no pathological evidence of Alzheimer's disease, or any other specific neuropathological diagnosis. We found argyrophilic grains, coiled bodies, abundant Alz-50-positive and thioflavine S-negative neurofibrillary tangles, and neuropil threads in the hippocampus, entorhinal cortex, locus ceruleus, substantia nigra, subthalamic nucleus, and inferior olives. Ultrastructurally, the grains, threads, and tangles were composed of straight tubulofilamentous structures, 25 nm in diameter, similar to those found in patients with progressive supranuclear palsy but different from the paired helical filaments of patients with Alzheimer's disease. These findings suggest that the late onset dementia with argyrophilic grains syndrome is also characterized by the presence of tangles and threads with the topographical distribution of progressive supranuclear palsy.
Embryonic brain tissue allografts under many circumstances survive transplantation into the brain. It is generally believed that such grafts will not survive if the host animal is systemically sensitized, by skin grafting or other means, to major histocompatibility complex (MHC) antigens of the donor animal. We have found that F344 brain grafts survive in BN hosts even when the host is systemically sensitized to F344 tissue. Embryonic cerebral neocortex from F344 donors was transplanted into BN host rats (n = 95). Subsequently, the host rats were systemically sensitized with donor skin (n = 25), brain tissue (n = 41), or spleen cells (n = 6) and compared with a control group of rats consisting of allografts with no sensitization or sham procedures (n = 23). Rejection of the transplants in BN rat hosts was not provoked by any of the sensitization methods tested. Minor immunological responses that did not result in rejection were, however, present in many host animals. We did not observe infiltration of W3/13+ T cells and OX8+ cytotoxic lymphocytes in any of the groups. Nevertheless, substantial infiltrations of OX6+ antigen-presenting cells and W3/25+ helper T cells were present. There was also an extensive enhancement of MHC class I immunoreactivity in parts of the grafted tissue developing within the third ventricle, but not for the same type of graft in the lateral ventricle. This increase of MHC class I expression was not accompanied by infiltration of cytotoxic T cells. Our findings thus suggest that neural graft rejection depends on general genetic susceptibility to immune reactions, particularly experimental allergic encephalomyelitis and not only on disparity between donor and host antigens encoded by the MHC. Moreover, enhancement of MHC class I and class II expression within transplanted tissue does not predict graft rejection.
Some investigators have described the presence in Alzheimer's disease brain extracts of several abnormal forms of the microtubule-associated protein tau, based on their unusual mobility in SDS/PAGE. It has been proposed that these abnormal forms of tau may be the result of aberrant tau phosphorylation. In this study we show that tau in extracts of Alzheimer's disease brain can be separated into two fractions based upon its solubility (100,000 g x 1 h supernatant) in non-denaturing conditions (100 mM-Mes, pH 6.5, 0.5 mM-MgCl2, 1 mM-EGTA and 1 M-NaCl). The tau isoforms with decreased mobility in SDS/PAGE are predominantly in an insoluble fraction, whereas the soluble tau is indistinguishable by its mobility in SDS/PAGE from tau in soluble extracts of control brain. Insoluble tau displaying abnormal mobility on SDS/PAGE was only found in Alzheimer and adult Down's syndrome brains and was absent from the brains of age-matched controls and from foetal and infant Down's syndrome brains. There was a good correlation between the presence of insoluble tau in brain extracts and the abundance of neurofibrillary tangles and senile neuritic plaques. The monoclonal antibody Tau. 1 stained insoluble tau on Western blots only after treatment of the nitrocellulose transfers with alkaline phosphatase, implying that this insoluble tau is in a particular state of phosphorylation. We conclude that, in Alzheimer's disease, a fraction of tau has a modified phosphorylation state and a decreased solubility; these modifications may precede formation of the neurofibrillary tangles characteristic of Alzheimer's disease and Down's syndrome in adults.



Light-microscope immunocytochemistry was used to investigate the LHRH system of adult male Syrian hamsters. Half of the animals were transferred from long to short photoperiods (14L:10D to 6L:18D) for 10 wk, causing plasma gonadotropin levels and the testes to revert to a prepubertal condition. In spite of the marked differences in the reproductive axis between the two groups of hamsters, the number of immunopositive LHRH neurons observed in the preoptic-medial septal area and diagonal band of Broca was approximately 400 in both cases; of these, 87-91% were monopolar and 9-13% were bipolar, regardless of whether the brains were sectioned in a coronal or sagittal plane. These results, therefore, fail to support the hypothesis that photoperiodic changes in the number of LHRH neurons play a major role in controlling the seasonal regression and recrudescence of the reproductive system in the hamster. However, morphometric analysis of the perikarya using an IBAS 2000 automatic image analyzer revealed a photoperiod-related difference. Surprisingly, the perikarya of both monopolar and bipolar LHRH neurons were significantly larger in hamsters that had been maintained on short days, as opposed to long days. These findings, therefore, are in harmony with the view that the inhibitory effect of short days on the reproductive axis is mediated through a suppression of LHRH secretion, which in turn is reflected as an increase in the net content of LHRH within the brain.
Luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) was conjugated to bovine thyroglobulin and used to immunize a BALB/c mouse. Spleen lymphocytes were subsequently fused to SP2/0 myeloma cells and two of the resulting hybridoma clones were found to produce high titer antibodies to LHRH (HU4H and HU11B); both belonged to the IgG1 subclass. Characterization of the monoclonal antibodies revealed that HU4H and HU11B have conformational and sequential specificity to LHRH, respectively, and that neither one shows significant immunoactivity with pro-LHRH. The value of these antibodies in immunocytochemical applications is demonstrated by their ability to cause intense specific staining of LHRH neuronal cell bodies and fibers in brain sections from several mammalian species.
We report here experiments undertaken in pairs of hepatocytes that demonstrate a marked voltage sensivity of junctional conductance and, thus, contradict earlier findings reported by this laboratory (Spray, D.C., R.D.ginzberg, E.A., E. A. Morales, Z. Gatmaitan and I.M. Arias, 1986, J. Cell Biol. 101:135-144; Spray C.D. R.L. White, A.C. Campos de Carvalho, and M.V.L. Bennett. 1984. Biophys. J. 45:219-230) and by others (Dahl, G., T. Moller, D. Paul, R. Voellmy, and R. Werner. 1987. Science [Wash. DC] 236:1290-1293; Riverdin, E.C., and R. Weingart. 1988. Am. J. Physiol. 254:C226-C234). Expression in exogenous systems, lipid bilayers in which fragments of isolated gap junction membranes were incorporated (Young, J.D.-E., Z. Cohn, and N.B. Gilula. 1987. Cell. 48:733-743.) and noncommunicating cells transfected with connexin32 cDNA (Eghbali, B., J.A. Kessler, and D.C. Spray. 1990. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA. 87:1328-1331), support these findings and indicate that the voltage-dependent channel is composed of connexin32, the major gap junction protein of rat liver (Paul, D. 1986. J. Cell Biol. 103:123-134).
A 53-year-old man with cushingoid appearance--obesity, osteoporosis causing lumbar and thoracic vertebral collapse and a past history of hypertension and depression presented with symptoms and signs of adrenocortical insufficiency. He denied the use of corticosteroid medication. However, it was eventually discovered that he had used clobetasol propionate (Dermovate), a potent topical steroid cream, for five years. The development of adrenal insufficiency symptoms coincided with the withdrawal of the cream.
1. The biochemical and pharmacological properties of 5-HT3 receptors in homogenates of NG108-15 and NCB-20 neuroblastoma cells and rat cerebral cortex have been ascertained by the use of [3H]-quipazine and [3H]-GR65630 binding. 2. In NG108-15 and NCB-20 cell homogenates, [3H]-quipazine bound to a single class of high affinity (NG108-15: Kd = 6.2 +/- 1.1 nM, n = 4; NCB-20: Kd = 3.0 +/- 0.9 nM, n = 4; means +/- s.e.means) saturable (NG108-15: Bmax = 1340 +/- 220 fmol mg-1 protein; NCB-20: Bmax = 2300 +/- 200 fmol mg-1 protein) binding sites. In rat cortical homogenates, [3H]-quipazine bound to two populations of binding sites in the absence of the 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) uptake inhibitor, paroxetine (Kd1 = 1.6 +/- 0.5 nM, Bmax1 = 75 +/- 14 fmol mg-1 protein; Kd2 = 500 +/- 300 nM, Bmax2 = 1840 +/- 1040 fmol mg-1 protein, n = 3), and to a single class of high affinity binding sites (Kd = 2.0 +/- 0.5 nM, n = 3; Bmax = 73 +/- 6 fmol mg-1 protein) in the presence of paroxetine. The high affinity (nanomolar) component probably represented 5-HT3 binding sites and the low affinity component represented 5-HT uptake sites. 3. [3H]-paroxetine bound with high affinity (Kd = 0.02 +/- 0.003 nM, n = 3) to a site in rat cortical homogenates in a saturable (Bmax = 323 +/- 45 fmol mg-1 protein, n = 3) and reversible manner. Binding to this site was potently inhibited by 5-HT uptake blockers such as paroxetine and fluoxetine (pKi s = 8.6-9.9), while 5-HT3 receptor ligands exhibited only low affinity (pK; &lt; 7). No detectable specific [3H]-paroxetine binding was observed in NG108-15 or NCB-20 cell homogenates. 4. [3H]-quipazine binding to homogenates of NG108-15, NCB-20 cells and rat cortex (in the presence of 0.1 microM paroxetine) exhibited similar pharmacological characteristics. 5-HT3 receptor antagonists competed for [3H]-quipazine binding with high nanomolar affinities in the three preparations and the rank order of affinity was: (S)-zacopride &gt; quarternized ICS 205-930 2 granisetron &gt; ondansetron &gt; ICS 205-209 (R)-zacopride &gt; quipazine &gt; renzapride &gt; MDL-72222 &gt; butanopride &gt; metoclopramide. 5. [3H]-GR65630 labelled a site in NCB-20 cell homogenates with an affinity (Kd = 0.7 + 0.1 nms n = 4) and density (B__ = 1800 + 1000 fmol mg- protein) comparable to that observed with [3H]-quipazine. Competition studies also indicated a good correlation between the pharmacology of 5-HT3 binding sites when [3H]-GR65630 and [3H]-quipazine were used in these cells. 6. In conclusion, [3H]-quipazine labelled 5-HT3 receptor sites in homogenates of NG108-15 cells, NCB-20 cells and rat cerebral cortex. In rat cortical homogenates, [3H]-quipazine also bound to 5-HT uptake sites, which could be blocked by 0.1 microM paroxetine. The pharmacological specificity of the 5-HT3 receptor labelled by [3H]-quipazine was similar in the neuroblastoma cells and rat cortex and was substantiated in NCB-20 cells by the binding profile of the selective 5-HT3 receptor antagonist, [3H]-GR65630.
This study examined three issues related to the processing of spatial relations by commissurotomized subjects. One issue was concerned with the respective competence of the disconnected cerebral hemispheres at performing judgements of relative position and distance between 2 objects appearing at varying locations in the visual space. Contrary to recent suggestions, the results showed that the two hemispheres were equally competent at representing categorical and coordinate spatial relations and at operating on these representations. The second issue was concerned with the capacity of the two disconnected hemispheres to operate conjointly. The subjects were simultaneously presented with the same information in the two visual fields and were required to produce a single response based on this information. Compared with unilateral presentations, bilateral presentations resulted in enhanced response accuracy and, depending on the type of decision, in patterns of response latency and accuracy different from the patterns of either unilateral condition. These results suggest that the two disconnected hemispheres can operate simultaneously and are able to join the outcomes of their respective operations before the production of a single response. The third issue was concerned with interhemispheric communication of visuospatial information. Unlike pattern information that is typically confined to the hemisphere that receives it in the commissurotomized brain, visuospatial information could be subjected to interhemispheric comparison as a function of its categorical and metric properties, although the patients had only implicit knowledge of part of the transferred information. Implications of these findings for the contribution of the hemispheres to visuospatial processing and for the understanding of the functioning of the commissurotomized brain are discussed.
We examined script and lexical retrieval in patients with probable Dementia-Alzheimer's Type (DAT), Depressed patients, and normal controls. DAT patient breakdown in script production was structurally similar to their impaired lexical retrieval such that script events of low frequency and low centrality value were lost first. DAT patients also produced more events that fell outside the script boundary as well as more event-order errors. Four cases with DAT were identified on the basis of Z scores whose script production was at least 2 SDs greater than their lexical production or vice versa. This finding suggests that it may be possible to dissociate script and lexical knowledge and production processes. The findings lend partial support for a model of knowledge representation that includes parallel and partially redundant memory networks that are distinctly distributed in the brain.

The effect of bilateral colchicine lesions of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis (NBM) on agonist-stimulated phosphoinositide (PI) hydrolysis was examined in cortical slices 1, 3, or 14 months after surgery. Colchicine lesions resulted in a loss of acetylcholinesterase staining in the cortex which recovered to control levels by 14 months. Choline acetyltransferase activity in the cortex was decreased by 43% one month after lesioning, but returned to control levels by 3 months. In vitro stimulation with carbachol produced a concentration-dependent increase in PI hydrolysis, which was enhanced 3 and 14 months after NBM lesions. Norepinephrine and quisqualate-stimulated PI hydrolysis was also enhanced 14 months after NBM lesions. These results suggest a slow up-regulation of postsynaptic receptor function following presynaptic loss of transmitter.
The activity of 252 neurons in the inferotemporal visual area TEO, the superior temporal auditory area (AA), and the superior temporal polysensory area (STP) during the performance of a visual spot-fixation task and two variations, blink and tone tests, was examined in two behaving monkeys. A considerable number of not only TEO cells (45%) but also AA (29%) and STP (34%) cells were activated during the spot-fixation task, but unresponsive to the blanking of the spot during the fixation stage in the blink test. In addition, it was found that the activity of a third of the TEO, AA and STP cells which fired during the task-start stage in the spot-fixation task was modulated by cross-interaction between spot and tone simultaneously presented in the tone test: among these, the spot-induced activity of all TEO cells was enhanced by the tone, whereas the spot-induced activity of all AA and STP cells was suppressed by the tone. These findings are discussed in relation to the process of attending selectively to a fixation-spot.
A study of cholecystokinin-like immunoreactivity in the lumbar (L1-L5) spinal cord segments of rats was realised 24-48 hours after complete thoracic transection (T6-T8). A comparison was made with corresponding spinal cord segments from control and sham-operated animals. The immunocytochemical study with light microscopy showed cholecystokinin-like immunoreactive cell bodies in laminae VII and X at L1-L5, caudal to the transection. In addition, the immunoreactivity was greatly enhanced in bundles of the dorsolateral funiculus compared to sham-operated animals. Our results suggest that part of cholecystokinin-like cell bodies of laminae VII and X send projections to supraspinal sites. Some of these supraspinal projections would go through the dorsolateral funiculus. In the lumbar dorsal horn of operated animals, the immunoreactivity was greatly enhanced in lamina I, while it was slightly decreased in lamina II, compared to control animals. Using electron microscopy, in lamina I, the immunoreactivity localized in different neurites was generally very intense. Moreover, axon terminals showed swelling: their mean size was 0.8-1.8 microns (0.5-1.2 in control animals). This result suggests that some cholecystokinin-like neurons also project to lamina I of rostral cervical segments. In lamina II, numerous degenerating axons were observed (24 hours after thoracic spinal transection). This would suggest that part of descending cholecystokinin-like projections terminate in lamina II.
Noradrenaline-like immunoreactivity in the cat nucleus ventralis posterior of the thalamus was investigated using an indirect immunocytochemical technique. Specific antinoradrenaline antibodies, raised in rabbits, were used. It was first verified that these antibodies recognize noradrenaline cells bodies of the locus coeruleus and their ascending axons in the ascending noradrenergic tract. In the nucleus ventralis posterior itself, noradrenaline-like fibers were observed. They were either randomly distributed or grouped around nonlabeled cell bodies. These neurons were generally oblong and measured 60-80 microns. With electron microscopy, preliminary results showed immunoreactive fibers in close apposition to unlabeled cell bodies or dendrites. The precise nature of these profiles was sometimes difficult to ascertain, since experiments were done in presence of detergent. In some cases symmetric synapses might be observed between immunoreactive axon terminals and unlabeled dendrites. The specificity of the reaction is discussed in the light of several control experiments.
Bilateral EEG recording is a common practice when brain laterality needs to be assessed in cognitive neurophysiology and psychiatry research. Its precision and validity remain uncertain. With structural brain imaging methods, it is possible to examine EEG electrode placements according to the 10-20 system and the validity of inferences made on derived data. Frequent sources of placement errors are examined along with important factors that contribute to EEG imbalance. Examples are mentioned where asymmetries of EEG/ERP caused by cranial and parenchymal brain asymmetries may be mistaken for cognition-related laterality changes. Because external skull landmarks are not reliable predictors of cranial and parenchymal brain asymmetries, laterality assessment cannot be guaranteed by the 10-20 system. Consequently, a return, on a case-to-case basis, to nonstandard montages, assisted by structural brain imaging is seen as an acceptable alternative.

The SENEX project is exploring knowledge representation in the neurobiology of ageing through object-oriented programming. SENEX is built from a classification structure of biologic entities and significant relationships among them. For example, an enzyme is an entity and an enzymatic reaction is a relationship among enzyme, cofactor(s), substrate(s) and product(s). There are currently 2600 classes of entities and 50 classes of relationships in SENEX. The class structure serves several functions. One function is to interrelate general and specific categories of molecular and morphologic entities. For example, tyrosine kinase and serine/threonine kinase are specific types of the more general class of protein kinase enzymes. Another function of the class structure is to serve as a network through which inheritance of attributes may occur. For example, the attribute 'subunits' is inherited by all subclasses of the general class multisubunit protein. Information may be accessed through links established in the class structure and through links relating one object as part of another. Relationships form the basis of separate modules within SENEX. This paper describes the types of relationships currently used and planned in the representation of age-related changes in cellular signal transduction processes of mammalian central nervous systems. We also describe tools for specific retrieval of relationships and for tracing links in complex reaction cascades. Application of these tools to identifying possible signal transduction pathways to guide further exploration through experimentation is discussed.
Using immunocytochemical techniques, the spatiotemporal distribution of the major collagen isoform of cartilage, type II collagen, has been investigated during early craniofacial development in the mouse embryo. Early and transient expression was associated with the otic and optic vesicles, the ventrolateral surfaces of the developing brain, olfactory conchi, endocardial and mesocardial tissues, the lateral and basal surfaces of the pharyngeal endoderm and beneath the ectoderm of the branchial arches. A number of these locations are sites of epithelial-mesenchymal tissue interaction believed to generate the component parts of the chondrocranium; here, type II collagen appears transiently in advance of overt chondrogenesis in the mesenchyme. At such sites, immunofluorescence is typically localised along the basal surface of the epithelial partner, with the strongest reaction detected between the basal aspects of the otic and rhombencephalic epithelia. Immunoelectron microscopy, using pre-embedding immunostaining and a protein G-gold technique, reveals that the type II collagen is adjacent to, but not integral with, the basal laminae. Gold particles are clearly associated with 10-15 nm fibrils of the extracellular matrix in the reticulate lamina region. The pattern of type II collagen expression in the mouse closely correlates with that demonstrated previously in the quail, indicating a high degree of phylogenetic conservation between these two vertebrate species. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that the pattern of epithelial secretion of type II collagen, or a coexpressed matrix molecule, constitutes a morphogenetic signal, realised as a matrix-mediated tissue interaction, and specifying the form of the vertebrate chondrocranium. Three-dimensional reconstruction of early type II collagen distribution, and of the subsequent chondrocranial cartilages, reveals that chondrocranial form can be derived from a 'pre-pattern' of epithelially derived type II collagen expressed at epithelial-mesenchymal tissue interfaces.
Three experiments are reported that used the advance information paradigm which consists of providing subjects with either no or partial information about an upcoming movement. Subjects moved handles to control the vertical displacements of CRT beams, to point to eight targets. The illumination of different combinations of these targets prior to movement execution provided advance information about which hand, movement direction, or movement extent would be required. Reaction time (RT), integrated EMG activity in the forearm extensor and flexor muscles, and M1, M2, and M3 components of the stretch reflex responses triggered in these muscles were analysed as a function of the precued movement parameter. Compared to the no-information condition, RT decreased in all precue conditions; however, the reduction was greater when direction than when hand was precued, and greater when hand than extent was precued. The EMG activity of forearm muscles increased during the preparatory period in all precue conditions, but generally did not differ among them. An overall facilitation of the stretch reflex components was observed in all precue conditions. This facilitation: (1) was greater for flexor than extensor muscles, (2) was similar regardless of the degree of extent precued, (3) differed for the M2 and M3 components depending on whether the responding hand precued was ipsilateral or contralateral. When the precued movement direction was considered, similar changes in the M3 component were found in extensor and flexor muscles. M3 was facilitated when the muscle was precued as an agonist and was inhibited when it was precued as an antagonist. Collectively these data provide support for a motor programming conception of movement organization.
A facile two-dimensional gel electrophoresis procedure has been developed for the analysis of neural tissue proteins which eliminates the serious problems associated with protein insolubility at the point of sample application onto polymerized first-dimension isoelectric focusing gels. This was accomplished by combining the methods of two previously published procedures. Our procedure provides an alternative method to the complex gel systems often employed for less soluble proteins, and yields very reproducible, high resolution separations. This procedure, which is in routine use in our laboratories for the analysis of total proteins extracted from retina and brain, produces protein patterns that are easily compared using both visual and computer-assisted image analysis techniques. Presented here are the results of a set of experiments designed to identify proteins unique to retina. This procedure should be useful to investigators studying protein changes resulting from genetic mutation, development, drug treatment or disease, in neural tissue as well as in virtually all other tissues.
In controlled trials of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) seizure frequency is often the only variable considered. With little prospect of improving assessment of AEDs, using seizure counts as the only end-point, there is a need for the development of new outcome measures. Clinical experience indicates that seizure severity is equally important to the patient and, by preventing seizure spread, AEDs can influence seizure severity without necessarily reducing seizure frequency. A scale capable of measuring seizure severity and change of severity attributable to treatment could be a useful additional outcome measure. Such a scale should exhibit the basic properties of validity and reliability. An easily administrable 16-point scale, containing 2 subscales--perception of control and ictal/post-ictal effects--has been developed. This scale has been tested on a patient population (n = 159) representative of that seen in trials of novel AEDs. Using standardised statistical methods, the scale has been shown to be both reliable and valid.

Spontaneous and evoked field potentials and cellular discharges of the subcortically denervated dorsal hippocampus were studied by multisite recordings in the freely behaving rat. Characteristic short-duration (&lt; 100 ms), large-amplitude (up to 10 mV) transients, termed interictal spikes (IIS), were seen after fimbria-fornix (FF) lesion. Both pyramidal cells and putative interneurons fired maximally during IIS, with some interneurons sustaining long bursts (up to 400 ms) of high-frequency discharges (400-600 Hz) after the IIS. The speed of propagation of IIS along the longitudinal axis of the hippocampus varied from 0.2 m/s to &gt; 3 m/s. The majority of IIS (type 1) could be accounted for by an enhanced activity of the intrahippocampal associational systems; a second class of IIS (type 2) had positive polarities in the stratum radiatum of CA1 and CA3 and propagated very rapidly (&gt; 1.5 m/s). The authors propose that type 2 IIS reflect somatic depolarization and discharge of pyramidal neurons due to nonsynaptic (probably ephaptic) effects. Ephaptic interactions may also explain the longitudinal propagation of IIS at speeds higher than the conduction velocities (0.5 m/s) of hippocampal fiber systems. IIS emerged during the first 3 weeks after fimbria-fornix lesion, their incidence reaching a plateau of 2/min thereafter. During the same time period, paired-pulse suppression increased in the dentate gyrus. The amplitude of test responses to angular bundle stimulation was potentiated by small-amplitude IIS but suppressed by large-amplitude IIS. The incidence of IIS was significantly suppressed during walking relative to standing still. Tetanic stimulation of the angular bundle or handling-induced stress resulted in a 10- to 20-fold increase in the incidence of IIS that lasted for about 30 minutes. There was a negative correlation between evoked field PSP slope and population spike amplitude in the dentate gyrus of FF-lesioned rats; this correlation was positive in intact rats. The authors attribute the above pathophysiological changes to sprouting of both excitatory and inhibitory GABAergic pathways as a result of denervation of the intrahippocampal circuitry. They hypothesize that the majority of the observed physiological alterations can be traced to a weakening of feedforward inhibition coupled with an enhancement of feedback inhibition and excitation.
An automatic reaction control chemical ionization technique in an ion trap detector (lTD) was used to quantitate the levels of the cholinergic drug, arecoline, in plasma of treated patients with Alzheimer's disease. The chemical ionization reaction was carried out with acetonitrile. The protonated molecules of arecoline (m I z 156) and the internal standard, homoarecoline (m / z 170), were monitored. Human plasma samples were extracted with a readily evaporable solvent mixture, the residues reconstituted and injected along with a tertiary amine-carrier into a capillary gas chromatograph interfaced with the ITD. Standard curves for plasma-extracted arecoline between 20-ng/mL and 156-pg/mL levels were linear (r&gt; 0.9980). Satisfactory precision (relative standard deviation &lt; 20%) and accuracy (relative error &lt; 15%) at the limit of quantitation, 156 pg/mL arecoline, were achieved. Optimal conditions for handling of blood samples obtained by venipuncture were determined. The assay was successfully applied for the therapeutic monitoring of Alzheimer patients treated intravenously with arecoline.
As part of the general trend toward interdisciplinary research in recent years, a growing number of investigators have come to consider both cognitive and neuroscientific perspectives when theorizing about memory. Although such cognitive neuroscience analyses are a relatively recent development, the approach has precedents in earlier scientific thinking about memory. In this article we present a historical review of three major issues in memory research---consolidation processes, the nature of memory representations, and multiple memory systems. We discuss the nature of the relation between cognitive and neuroscientific approaches to each of these issues with respect to the distinction between collateral, complementary, and convergent relations (Schacter, 1986). Although some early investigators offered analyses that linked psychological and physiological perspectives, there is little historical evidence of systematic or sustained interdisciplinary research. However, more recent work, especially with respect to hypotheses about memory systems, suggests progress toward establishing programmatic interdisciplinary research.
In zebra finches early auditory experience is critical for normal song development. Young males first listen to and memorize a suitable song model and then use auditory feedback from their own vocalizations to mimic that model. During these two phases of vocal learning, song-related brain regions exhibit large, hormone-induced changes in volume and neuron number. Overlap between these neural changes and auditory-based vocal learning suggests that processing and acquiring auditory input may influence cellular processes that determine neuron number in the song system. We addressed this hypothesis by measuring neuron density, nuclear volume, and neuron number within the song system of normal male zebra finches and males deafened prior to song learning (10 days of age). Measures were obtained at 25, 50, 65, and 120 days of age, and included four song nuclei: the hyperstriatum ventralis pars caudalis or higher vocal center (HVc), Area X, the robust nucleus of the archistriatum (RA), and the lateral magnocellular nucleus of the anterior neostriatum (IMAN). In both HVc and Area X, nuclear volume and neuron number increased markedly with age in both normal and deafened birds. The volume of RA also increased with age and was not affected by early deafening. In IMAN, deafening also did not affect the overall age-related loss of neurons, although at 25 days neuron number was slightly less in deafened than in normal birds. We conclude that while the addition and loss of neurons in the developing song system may provide plasticity essential for song learning, these changes do not reflect learning.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The present work addresses the effects of short-term denervation on acetylcholinesterase (AChE; EC 3.1.1.7) isoenzymes in anterior gracilis muscles from adult male Sprague-Dawley rats. It examines possible relationships between AChE isoform changes and other denervation phenomena, and evaluates the importance of acetylcholine (ACh)-nicotinic receptor interactions in selectively modulating the activity of G4 AChE. Results confirm that denervation causes a specific, transient increase in G4 AChE and show that: most of the increment can be explained by the hydrophobic species of this isoenzyme; changes in AChE isoforms markedly precede the onset of spontaneous electromechanical activity (fibrillation), as well as acetylcholine receptor (AChR) proliferation; and the G4 AChE response is eliminated when AChRs are blocked by alpha-bungarotoxin treatment performed before but not after (24 h) denervation. These data point to the absence of direct causal relationships between the G4 AChE increment and fibrillation, AChR proliferation, or changes in the release of this isoform from denervated muscle. In turn, they suggest the participation of AChR activation in triggering the G4 AChE response and emphasize the possible role of ACh-AChR interactions in modulating the production of this isoenzyme in not only denervated but also innervated fast-twitch muscles.
The changes in the levels of protein kinase C [PKC(alpha, beta II, gamma)] were studied in cytosolic and particulate fractions of striatal homogenates from rats subjected to 15 min of cerebral ischemia induced by bilateral occlusion of the common carotid arteries and following 1 h, 6 h, and 48 h of reperfusion. During ischemia the levels of PKC(beta II) and -(gamma) increased in the particulate fraction to 390% and 590% of control levels, respectively, concomitant with a decrease in the cytosolic fraction to 36% and 20% of control, respectively, suggesting that PKC is redistributed from the cytosol to cell membranes. During reperfusion the PKC(beta II) levels in the particulate fraction remained elevated at 1 h postischemia and decreased to below control levels after 48 h reperfusion, whereas PKC(gamma) rapidly decreased to subnormal levels. In the cytosol PKC(beta II) and -(gamma) decreased to 25% and 15% of control levels at 48 h, respectively. The distribution of PKC(alpha) did not change significantly during ischemia and early reperfusion. The PKC activity in the particulate fraction measured in vitro by histone IIIS phosphorylation in the presence of calcium, 4 beta-phorbol 13-myristate 12-acetate, and phosphatidylserine (PS) significantly decreased by 52% during ischemia, and remained depressed over the 48-h reperfusion period. In the cytosolic fraction PKC activity was unchanged at the end of ischemia, and decreased by 47% after 6 h of reperfusion. The appearance of a stable cytosolic 50-kDa PKC-immunoreactive peptide or an increase in the calcium- and PS-independent histone IIIS phosphorylation was not observed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The activity of protein tyrosine kinase was determined in extracts from Alzheimer's disease brains and age- and postmortem time-matched control brains at autopsy using the synthetic peptide substrate poly(Glu4Tyr1). The specific activity of protein tyrosine kinases in the particulate fraction decreased roughly twofold (p less than 0.02) in Alzheimer's disease frontal cortex relative to unaffected control cortex. Cytosolic protein tyrosine kinase activity in Alzheimer's disease tissue was not significantly different from that in control tissue. In contrast to reduced particulate protein tyrosine kinase activity, analysis of Western blots of cytosolic and particulate fractions revealed increases in cytosolic antiphosphotyrosine immunoreactive polypeptides with molecular masses of 55 and 60 kDa. Quantitative immunohistochemistry and morphometry of frontal cortex sections with the antiphosphotyrosine antibody indicated increased antiphosphotyrosine staining in the neurons, although the number of antiphosphotyrosine-positive neurons per square millimeter decreased. Also, increased antiphosphotyrosine staining was observed in the hippocampal neurons. These results suggest that altered protein tyrosine kinases and protein tyrosine phosphorylation are involved in the pathology of Alzheimer's disease.
Superfusion of striatal slices with a medium deficient in Ca2+ and Mg2+ caused a large and sustained increase in release of lactate dehydrogenase, a finding indicative of the disruption of plasma membranes. This was associated with an efflux of dopamine (DA) and the depletion of DA from the tissue. In addition, whereas DA efflux was stimulated by either D-amphetamine (10 microM) or L-glutamate (10 mM) in the absence of Ca2+, these effects were greatly reduced when Mg2+ also was withdrawn from the buffer. These results suggest that (a) incubation in a Ca2+/Mg2(+)-free buffer disrupts plasma membranes, (b) this disruption affects dopaminergic neurons as well as those of other striatal elements, and (c) the failure of a treatment to stimulate DA release in a Ca2+/Mg2(+)-free buffer cannot be used as a test of Ca2+ dependence.
Abstract The possible effects of opioid receptor agonists on growth hormone (GH)-releasing factor or somatostatin neurons were examined by measuring the effects of localized intracerebral injections of mu-, delta- and kappa-selective agonists on GH secretion. Serial GH concentrations were measured in plasma in unanaesthetized male rats chronically prepared with venous and intracerebral cannulae, before and after treatment with bilateral intracerebral injections of opioid agonists in the preoptic anterior hypothalamic area and medial basal hypothalamus. In the medial basal hypothalamus, injections of the mu-agonist DAGO (Tyr-D-Ala-Gly-(Me)Phe-Gly-ol) caused dose-responsive increases in GH, the maximally effective dose being 0.001 nmoles. Injection of 10,000-fold higher doses of the delta-agonist DPDPE ([D-Pen, D-Pen]enkephalin) and the kappa-agonist U50,488H were also effective in stimulating GH secretion. In the preoptic anterior hypothalamic area, DAGO caused dose-responsive increases in GH, the maximally effective dose being 0.01 nmoles. U50.488H was ineffective at 1,000-fold higher doses while DPDPE was effective at 100- to 1,000-fold higher doses. We conclude that hypothalamic mu-opioid receptor activation on or near somatostatin or GH-releasing factor neurons causes GH secretion. Opioids capable of acting on other opioid receptors may also stimulate GH secretion, though only at doses that seem likely to affect mu-receptors.
Forty four consecutive patients with acute hemispheric stroke and forty seven elderly controls with no neurological disease were assessed for visuo-spatial neglect, using a modified neglect test battery. Neglect was found to be equally common in patients with right hemisphere and left hemisphere stroke three days after stroke (72% versus 62%). It was more severe in those with a right hemisphere stroke and resolved more frequently in those with a left hemisphere stroke. The battery was validated against an occupational therapist's assessment of neglect on self-care tasks. The inter-observer reliability was good and it was possible to monitor changes over time with the battery.
Examination of 47 independent elderly subjects, matched with a population of patients with acute stroke, found that 55% made at least one omission on a battery of neglect tests. Up to 43% made omissions on any one test. Increasing age and other evidence of cognitive impairment were associated with impaired performance on the battery. Omissions were attributed to an age-related decline in visuo-spatial function. Cut-off points are provided to distinguish between such age-related impairment and visuospatial neglect. The importance of age-matched control studies in developing tests of cognitive impairment in stroke research is highlighted.
A 34 year old woman developed cerebral infarction, following a tonic-clonic seizure. A vertebral artery dissection was demonstrated and may have been caused by arterial trauma during the seizure. This cause of morbidity following convulsive seizures may have been overlooked in the past and needs to be recognised in view of the potential benefits of anticoagulation.
1. In the anesthetized cat, simultaneous intracellular recordings from pairs of spinal motoneurons were undertaken to see whether the amplitude of single-fiber excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) in both cells fluctuated in a coordinated manner that would indicate correlative mechanisms at either pre- or post-synaptic level. Although these recordings revealed correlated fluctuations in the baseline, the single-fiber Ia/EPSPs recorded with the spike-triggered averaging technique exhibited no correlated fluctuations and, unexpectedly, virtually no increase in baseline variance associated with the EPSP. However, the fact that these experiments were carried out under conditions of high baseline synaptic noise (i.e., with muscle stretch) may have influenced the outcome because of interaction between EPSP and synaptic noise, and this possibility was evaluated explicitly. 2. A given connection was studied under low noise by electrically stimulating a single Ia fiber in the absence of muscle stretch. The same connection was analyzed under conditions of high noise by activating the fiber and all other stretch receptor afferents with muscle stretch and by using spike-triggered averaging to extract the EPSP. The differences in mean EPSP amplitude at a given connection under conditions of low noise and high noise were minimal. 3. Fluctuations in EPSP amplitude were then determined to see whether these were influenced by presence of baseline synaptic noise and whether the interaction was nonlinear. Two methods were used to measure EPSP fluctuations: measurement of the variance associated with the EPSP, and determination by the use of deconvolution methods of the discrete amplitude components associated with the EPSP. 4. An increase in baseline variance was observed during the EPSP evoked under low noise conditions at all six connections studied in this way. This increase disappeared at two of these connections when examined under high noise. This may help to explain the results obtained in pairs of motoneurons. 5. The deconvolution results were used to calculate the variance of the noise-free EPSP. This was found to differ from the variance of the EPSP amplitude distribution measured directly from the change in baseline variance associated with the EPSP. Analytic techniques suggested that this difference could be explained in most cases by negative correlation between the EPSP and baseline synaptic noise. These considerations led to an analytic method to assess the reliability of the deconvolution result. 6. Simulation studies revealed that the baseline variance increase associated with the EPSP is also highly dependent on the correlation between signal and noise.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. Eye movements of awake turtles were measured from both eyes simultaneously using two search-coil contact lenses. Optokinetic nystagmus (OKN) was evoked by full field patterns moving horizontally at different stimulus velocities. Intravitreal injections of either bicuculline or 2-amino-4-phosphonobutyrate (APB) were then made into one eye, after which eye movements were again recorded under similar stimulus conditions. Several days later, eye movements were again recorded and recovery was observed. 2. The effects of these two synaptic drugs on the optokinetic responses of the injected eye were similar to those previously reported in turtles, rabbits, and decorticate cats. APB, which blocks the retinal ON pathways, completely blocked visually evoked responses to any stimulus direction or velocity presented to the injected eye. On the other hand, the uninjected eye was still responsive to optokinetic stimuli. This difference between the eyes is consistent with the nonconjugate nature of OKN in the turtle. 3. After bicuclline application, the injected eye displayed a spontaneous nystagmus with its slow phase in the temporal-to-nasal direction. The movements of the injected eye were independent of stimulus direction or a range of stimulus velocities. During that effect, the eye contralateral to the injection still responded to visual stimuli in a direction- and velocity-dependent manner. For example, if the uninjected eye was exposed to optokinetic stimuli moving temporal-to-nasal, both eyes would then move in their respective temporal-to-nasal directions. This nonconjugate ocular behavior is similar to that seen when each eye of a normal turtle was exposed to its temporal-to-nasal stimulus.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The spatial spread within fly photoreceptors of 2 forms of desensitization by bright light have been investigated: the natural process of light adaptation in normal Musca photoreceptors and a receptor-potential inactivation in the no-steady-state (nss) mutant of the sheep blowfly Lucilia. The suction-electrode method used for recording from vertebrate rods was applied to fly ommatidia. A single ommatidium in vitro was partially sucked into a recording pipette. Illumination of the portion of the ommatidium within the pipette resulted in a flow of current having a wave form similar to that of the receptor potential and polarity consistent with current flow into the illuminated region of the photoreceptors. Two 5-microns slits of light, positioned at right angles to the ommatidial axis, were employed to determine the spread of light adaptation or inactivation along the ommatidium. The intensity of a flash of light delivered to one (adapting) slit was adjusted until it produced a criterion fractional reduction in the response to the other (test) slit. The reciprocal of this intensity of the adapting slit was taken as a measure of the effectiveness of the slit in causing light adaptation or inactivation. The effectiveness of the slit in causing light adaptation in normal Musca ommatidia fell as the adapting and test slits were moved farther apart along the ommatidial axis, declining to half its maximal value at a distance of 13 +/- 2 microns. Similar measurements of the effectiveness of a slit in causing light-induced inactivation in the nss mutant of Lucilia also demonstrated localization, declining to half its maximal value at a distance between the slits of 9 +/- 1 microns. Neither light adaptation nor inactivation by the nss mutation, therefore, appear to be mediated by voltage or by a highly diffusible agent. The results are consistent with the idea that inactivation by the nss mutation replaces adaptation in the mutant photoreceptors.
The surgical treatment of intractable seizures is still regarded by some as an experimental procedure with questionable rationale. However, in centers where care is taken in the selection process and facilities are available for adequate diagnosis, the procedure has been successful in complete alleviation of seizures in some cases. The decision about surgical interventions for epilepsy is never an easy one. Potential surgical candidates are evaluated by a team of specialists and undergo numerous diagnostic tests and examinations before a decision for surgery is made. It is essential for the neuroscience nurse to have knowledge of the underlying etiology of seizures, diagnostic testing and surgical procedures in order to effectively care for the seizure patient pre- and postoperatively. With this knowledge, nursing management becomes a vital part in the total treatment of the seizure patient.
Permission to conduct research must be obtained from all institutions which will be involved. The special nature of our target population may result in a particularly detailed review. Specific suggestions to facilitate approval to conduct research address utilization of institutional personnel, informed consent and concerns of the IRB. Seek guidance from knowledgeable employees. You can obtain a great deal of useful information from IRB secretaries and nurses who are engaged in research in the target institution. Informing potential subjects about the research is critical, and is best done using strategies such as assuring the language used enhances comprehension. Finally, be prepared to discuss concerns of the IRB. The ability of impaired subjects to communicate with you, the researcher, seems to be of particular concern to many IRBs.
Family function information is essential to providing holistic nursing care, assessing specific areas of family dysfunction and assisting the client in adaptation to stress using family or external resources. This article presents an assessment tool developed by the author for collection and evaluation of family data in a simple format that can be used by neuroscience nurses caring for the ill or injured family member in the acute care setting. Theoretical rationale is presented along with a description of the instrument and its application. Based on assessment data, the health care plan is developed by nurses using expertise from health team members where appropriate.
Unidirectional fluxes of 45Ca, 36Cl, and of [3H]mannitol from blood into the sciatic nerve and cerebral cortex were determined from 5- and 15-min uptakes of these tracers after an intravenous (i.v.) bolus injection in awake rats. Rats were fed diets for 8 wk, that had either a low (0.01% wt/wt), normal (0.67%), or high (3%) Ca content. Plasma [Ca] was 32% less and 11% more in rats fed low (LOCA) and high Ca diets (HICA), respectively, than in rats fed a normal Ca diet (CONT). The mean permeability-surface area product (PA) of 45Ca at the blood-nerve barrier was about eightfold higher than at the blood-brain barrier in the same animals and did not differ significantly between groups (greater than 0.05). Mean PA ratios of 45Ca/36Cl for the blood-nerve and blood-brain barriers in CONT rats, 0.52 +/- 0.04 and 0.40 +/- 0.02, respectively, were not significantly different from corresponding ratios in LOCA and HICA groups, and corresponded to the aqueous limiting diffusion ratio (0.45). Our results show no evidence for concentration-dependent transport of Ca over a plasma [Ca] range of 0.8-1.4 mmol/liter at the blood-nerve barrier of the rat peripheral nerve, and suggest that Ca and Cl exchange slowly between nerve and blood via paracellular pathways.
Antibodies against the mitochondrial enzyme glutaminase (EC 3.5.1.2), have been used in previous immunocytochemical studies to help identify glutamate-releasing neurons among all glutamate-containing neurons. The studies were based on the idea that glutaminase is enriched within the releasable &quot;transmitter&quot; pools of glutamate. However, evidence is also available to suggest that the enzyme does not occur exclusively within glutamate-releasing neurons. Thus we sought to determine whether glutaminase was immunocytochemically detectable within presynaptic terminals forming asymmetric (putatively excitatory) synapses or, alternatively, occurs in association with mitochondria throughout the cell. For this purpose, we examined the cellular and subcellular distribution of glutaminase- immunoreactivity in neocortical (visual and somatosensory) areas known to contain glutamatergic perikarya. This localization was compared with the distribution in striatal (caudate-putamen and nucleus accumbens) regions recognized to contain high densities of glutamatergic terminals but fewer, if any, glutamatergic perikarya. Glutaminase-immunoreactive perikarya were numerous within the infragranular laminae of neocortex (approximately 1 per 1,000 microns 2 tissue area) but sparse within the caudate-putamen nuclei and accumbens nuclei (less than 1 per 20,000 microns 2.). In addition, heterogeneous distribution of small (less than 1 microns) punctate immunoreactive structures was notable. Relatively high densities of these punctate structures occurred within the supragranular laminae of neocortex, dorsolateral quadrant of the caudate-putamen nuclei, and surrounding certain groups of myelinated fiber bundles throughout the striatum. Electron microscopy revealed diffusely distributed peroxidase immunoreactivity in a select population of dendritic spines, glial processes, and axons. Eight percent of all synapses within the supra-granular laminae were formed by terminals labeled for glutaminase. These principally formed asymmetric junctions on spiny processes. When tissue was incubated with the antibody in the presence of a permeabilizing agent, Photo-flo, high levels of glutaminase immunoreactivity was detectable by electron microscopy within select mitochondria of neocortical (4%) and striatal (8%) perikarya and dendrites, while the diffuse distribution of immunoreactivity within axons and glia was greatly diminished. The differential ultrastructural conditions provide direct demonstration that glutaminase in brain occurs in at least two forms discriminable by their diffuse distribution within non-mitochondrial cytoplasm versus discrete localization within mitochondria. The morphological characteristics of synapses formed by axons exhibiting diffuse distributions of glutaminase immunoreactivity are consistent with the idea that glutaminase-enriched terminals mediate excitatory chemical transmission via the release of glutamate. Because glia containing glutaminase occur juxtaposed to the asymmetric junctions, the glia may utilize neuronally released glutamate for energy metabolism.
Major technical progress in the development of computer-based image analysis has made possible the entry of autoradiography and immunohistochemistry into a new era where quantification by densitometry has become easily accessible. Autoradiography could become quantitative and displayed adequate reproducibility with the help of emulsion-coated films and the use of scales of standards of known radioactivity exposed and analyzed in parallel to the tissue sections. Immunohistochemistry after revelation by a color-based enzymatic technique can also become quantitative, providing that standardization of the crucial steps of the procedure and calibration through a parallel treatment of a scale of antigen standards can be ensured. Such an approach is described here in the rat with reference to tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), the main synthesizing enzyme for catecholamines, and with dopamine (DA) itself, a catecholaminergic neurotransmitter. The different parts of the procedure, which can influence the results, such as the fixation of the animals by perfusion and the evaluation of the fluctuations via the calibration curve, are discussed in detail. Biological validation of the proposed procedure is described by reference to experiments already well documented biochemically, such as the induction effect of reserpine on TH in the rat locus coeruleus and the depleting effect of alpha-methyltyrosine (AMPT), a well-known blocker of TH activity, on rat striatal DA content. Finally the importance of restricting the measurements to the (pseudo)linear portion of the calibration curve is illustrated by the autoradiographic identification of the differential intrastriatal repartition of the dopaminergic D1 and D2 receptor sites, particularly the dual patch-matrix compartments.
Lipid metabolism of an intracerebrally implanted brain tumor and normal brain was investigated in awake Fischer 344 rats using intravenously injected [9,10(-3)H]-palmitate as a probe. A suspension of Walker 256 carcinosarcoma cells (250 cells in 5 microliters medium), with or without 1% low-melting-point agar, was implanted into the caudate nucleus of rats 8 to 9 weeks old. Control animals received an intracerebral injection without tumor cells. Seven days after implantation, awake rats were infused intravenously for 5 minutes with [9,10(-3)H]-palmitate (6.4 mCi/kg). The rats were killed 20 minutes after initiation of the infusion and coronal brain slices were obtained for quantitative autoradiography and light histological study. Tumor cell masses were histologically well demarcated from the surrounding brain tissue. Tumor tissue incorporation of [9,10(-3)H]-palmitate was heterogeneous, ranging on average from 3.1- to 6.1-fold greater than in the corresponding contralateral brain. In addition, incorporation corresponded to regional tumor cell density. The incorporation rate constant of [9,10(-3)H]-palmitate in tumor was significantly increased compared to control brain and was independent of tumor size. Necrotic areas within tumors showed no incorporation of radiolabeled palmitate. Brain surrounding the tumors and control injection sites showed reactive gliosis, and possessed 30% greater incorporation of [9,10(-3)H]-palmitate than contralateral normal brain. These results suggest that [9,10(-3)H]-palmitate can be used to image brain tumors in vivo, measuring turnover and/or synthesis of tumor and brain lipid.
The primary objective of this work was to investigate how in vivo administration of depolarizing agents increases extracellular concentrations of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) and simultaneously decreases levels of its chief metabolite 5-hydroxyindole-3-acetic acid (5-HIAA). To this end the effects of a number of agents on extracellular levels of 5-HT and 5-HIAA in cat spinal cord were determined by microdialysis and high-pressure liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection. The semipermeable portion of the dialysis probe was centered in the dorsal horn. Artificial cerebrospinal fluid containing elevated K+ or drugs was introduced into the dorsal horn via the dialysis probe. Increases in recovered 5-HT were assumed to reflect increased levels in the extracellular fluid due to release, reduced reuptake and/or reduced metabolism. Depolarizing agents (K+, veratridine and aconitine) increased 5-HT, but dramatically decreased 5-HIAA levels. Extracellular 5-HT returned to near base-line levels with removal of the depolarizing agents. The reduction in 5-HIAA was transient after potassium infusion, but outlasted the infusion of veratridine or aconitine by several hours. Reduction of 5-HIAA could be blocked or reversed with the Na+ channel blockers, lidocaine and tetrodotoxin. Evidently, the decrease in 5-HT metabolism followed activation of sodium channels. Parachloroamphetamine caused an increase in 5-HT levels, presumably reflecting increased 5-HT release, but did not change 5-HIAA levels. Although fluoxetine increased 5-HT, it reduced 5-HIAA, presumably through blockade of 5-HT reuptake leading to a secondary reduction in metabolism.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
1. Cells dissociated from mouse cerebellum were grown in vitro. Ca2+ channel currents were recorded from granule cells with the patch-clamp technique under conditions which suppressed currents through Na+ and K+ channels and minimized run-down of current through Ca2+ channels. 2. A strong depolarizing voltage step from a hyperpolarized holding potential produced inward Ca2+ channel current that decayed exponentially to a non-zero level. Inward current decayed to approximately 40% of its peak amplitude (range 20-90%). 3. The inward current increased in amplitude when Ca2+ was replaced with Ba2+ or after raising the concentration of extracellular Ba2+, but the rate of decay of current was unaffected. 4. The current-voltage (I-V) relation showed that peak or sustained current increased with voltage pulses more positive than approximately -30 mV, reached a maximum amplitude near +20 mV and became progressively smaller with larger depolarizations. 5. The tail currents produced after rapidly repolarizing the membrane potential to -70 mV from a positive test pulse decayed along a single exponential time course with a time constant of approximately 0.5 ms. The amplitude of tail current measured at a fixed repolarization potential increased as the pre-pulse was made more positive and reached a maximum with pre-pulses more positive than +40 mV. A plot of normalized amplitude of the tail current as a function of the pre-pulse potential was fitted with a Boltzmann relation with V1/2 = approximately + 8 mV and steepness k = 14 mV. 6. Shifting the holding potential to more positive potentials reduced the amplitude of the Ca2+ channel current elicited by the fixed voltage step and abolished the decay of the inward current. The peak current was normalized to the maximum peak current elicited from a very negative holding potential and plotted as a function of holding potential. The points were fitted with a Boltzmann relation for inactivation with V1/2 = approximately -57 mV and steepness k = 14 mV. 7. The onset of inactivation was studied in two-pulse experiments in which the duration of conditioning pre-pulse was varied. Increasing the duration of a pre-pulse to a fixed potential reduced the peak inward current evoked by the second test pulse. Plotting normalized current as a function of pre-pulse duration showed that inactivation developed along a double exponential time course. Both fast and slow time constants decreased as the pre-pulse potential was made more positive.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The purpose of research is the expansion of knowledge. Research with greatest impact on the discipline is that which expands knowledge to enable the provision of effective care. Nursing, as an applied science, responds to changes in the knowledge base with concomitant changes in the application of the nursing process. OCD is an example of an expansion in knowledge after a history of care based on a limited understanding of the etiology of the disorder. The impact on the nursing care of the client with OCD includes the importance of careful assessment with attention to behaviors, feelings, and cognitions. The implementation of nursing actions is guided by a focus on the present and includes physical and emotional support provided for needs created by both the symptoms of OCD and the accompanying symptoms of anxiety and depression, as well as client education regarding OCD and the safe use of clomipramine when it is prescribed.
The rotating chair test, a novel research technique for simulating motion sickness, is used to study the effect of nonsedating oral antihistamines in preventing or forestalling motion sickness. After receiving terfenadine, astemizole, doxepin, or placebo, four groups of male volunteers were rotated at accelerating speed, and they made head movements out of the axis of rotation until they perceived that vomiting would occur if additional head movements were made. Those pretreated with doxepin or terfenadine experienced a statistically significant prophylactic effect, as measured by increased tolerance to Coriolis stimulation. This suggests that selective peripheral H1 antihistamine action may protect against motion sickness.
A family of proteins has recently been identified, each member of which has the capacity to initiate muscle differentiation in many non-muscle cell types. These factors, which include MyoD1, myogenin, myf-5 and MRF4, share homologies with each other and belong to a superfamily of Myc-related proteins. Expression of these regulatory proteins results in auto-activation and cross-activation of other members of the family and in the transcriptional activation of the markers of terminal differentiation. Sequence analysis has shown a conserved basic domain in each protein that is required for binding to specific DNA sequences of the E-box type and for myogenic activation. A conserved helix-loop-helix (HLH) domain allows homo- and heterodimerization of these muscle-specific proteins with each other and with ubiquitously expressed proteins such as the E2A gene products (E12/E47). This review describes the discovery and characterization of these muscle regulatory proteins and their actions in the context of proposed models for the determination and differentiation of muscle tissue.
The distributions of mRNAs coding for three different isoforms of the alpha and two of the beta subunits of Na,K-ATPase were studied in the rat cochlea using in situ mRNA hybridization. The alpha1 and beta1 subunit isoforms were widely distributed and appear to mediate the Na and K transport needs of most cochlear cells. The mRNAs encoding the alpha2 and alpha3 subunit isoforms were present in glial and neuronal types, respectively. The only subunit isoform mRNAs found in the stria vascularis were alpha1 and beta2. This suggests that Na,K-ATPase consisting of the alpha1 and beta2 subunits plays a critical role in the maintenance of high extracellular K(+) levels in the cochlear endolymph and appears to transport K(+) ions against very low levels of intracellular potassium.
Axonal elongation, neurite outgrowth, and synaptogenesis are key events of mammalian brain development. The neuronal cytoskeleton plays a fundamental role in these changes, which are influenced by gonadal steroids in brain regions bearing the appropriate receptors. Microtubules, which constitute a major portion of the cytoskeleton, are composed of alpha- and beta-tubulin polypeptide heterodimers encoded by multigene families. Of the five beta-tubulin isotypes described, the genes encoding Class II and IV are preferentially expressed in brain. Expression of the mRNA encoding Class II beta-tubulin isotype is selectively increased during neuronal development and regeneration, whereas that of Class IV increases later in development and does not change during regeneration. The present study was undertaken to characterize the expression of these mRNAs during hypothalamic development and to determine if the well-known process of steroid-dependent sexual differentiation of this brain region is accompanied by related differences in beta-tubulin mRNA expression. In addition, we examined the developmental profile of mRNAs encoding two protein constituents of neurofllaments (NF), the other major component of the neuronal cytoskeleton. The levels of Class II beta-tubulin mRNA (RBTZ) were elevated in the medial basal hypothalamus (MBH) and preoptic area (POA) of both males and females during the late fetal-early postnatal period (i.e., Fetal Day 16-Postnatal Day 2) and decreased markedly thereafter. The initial decrease, detected between Postnatal Days 2 and 12, was more pronounced in females than in males, the difference being more clear in the POA than in the MBH. No such sexrelated differences were found in the cerebral cortex (Cc) or cerebellum (Cb). Castration of male rats on the day of birth reduced RBTZ mRNA levels in the POA and MBH toward female values when measured on Day 12. Analysis of the Class IV beta-tubulin mRNA (RBT(2)) developmental profile revealed that RBTZ mRNA is expressed throughout development (Fetal Day 20-Postnatal Day 25) in the POA and MBH, without sex-related differences. Although levels of expression increased during the fourth week of life, the increase was less conspicuous than in the Cb. Levels of the two mRNAs encoding the 68-kDa protein of neurofilaments (NF68) increased moderately between Fetal Day 16 and the day of birth in both the POA and MBH, remaining relatively constant thereafter, without detectable sex differences. Levels of NF145 mRNA, which encodes the 145-kDa protein of neurofilaments, were already maximally elevated by Fetal Day 16 (the earliest age studied) and showed no sex-related differences during development. Since RBTZ, but not RBT(2) or NF, mRNA expression is known to be induced during neuronal development, the results provide molecular evidence for the concept that an extended period of axonal elongation/neurite outgrowth underlies the steroid-dependent morphological differentiation of the rat hypothalamus.
In homogenate of rat olfactory bulb, the opioid receptor agonists beta-endorphin, Leu-enkephalin, and dynorphin A stimulated adenylate cyclase activity in a concentration-dependent manner, with half-maximal effects displayed at 22, 63, and 176 nM, respectively. The maximal stimulation of the enzyme activity corresponded to about a 40% increase of basal activity for all three peptides. Naloxone antagonized the stimulation of beta-endorphin, Leu-enkephalin, and dynorphin A, with pA2 values of 8.0, 7.7, and 8.1, respectively. Kinetic analysis performed with Leu-enkephalin showed that the opioid peptide increased the Vmax of the enzyme, without changing the Km for the substrate Mg-ATP. Moreover, the opioid stimulation was associated with a significant increase of the affinity of the enzyme for Mg2+ activation and occurred in membranes incubated in a Ca2(+)-free medium. Addition of exogenous GTP at micromolar concentrations was absolutely necessary for the detection of the opioid effect. Treatment of olfactory bulbs with cholera toxin did not alter the stimulation of adenylate cyclase by Leu-enkephalin. However, the opioid stimulation disappeared in membranes obtained from bulbs injected with pertussis toxin. These results demonstrate the presence in the brain of a new functional class of opiate receptors coupled to stimulation of adenylate cyclase via a transduction mechanism that is Ca2+ independent and seems to involve a pertussis toxin-sensitive GTP-binding protein.
Altered cytosolic free calcium concentrations ([Ca2+]i) accompany impaired brain metabolism and may mediate subsequent effects on brain function and cell death. The current experiments examined whether hypoxia-induced elevations in [Ca2+]i are from external or internal sources. In the absence of external calcium, neither KCl depolarization, histotoxic hypoxia (KCN), nor the combination changed [Ca2+]i. However, with external CaCl2 concentrations as small as 13 microM, KCl depolarization increased [Ca2+]i instantaneously while hypoxia gradually raised [Ca2+]i. The combination of KCN and KCl was additive. Increasing external calcium concentrations up to 2.6 mM exaggerated the effects of K+ and KCN on [Ca2+]i, but raising medium calcium to 5.2 mM did not further augment the rise. Diminishing the sodium in the media, which alters the activity and perhaps the direction of the Na/Ca exchanger, reduced the increase in [Ca2+]i due to hypoxia, but enhanced the KCl response. The changes in ATP following K+ depolarization, KCN or their combination in the presence of physiological calcium concentrations did not parallel alterations in [Ca2+]i, which suggests that diminished activity of the calcium dependent ATPase does not underlie the elevation in [Ca2+]i. Valinomycin, an ionophore which reduces the mitochondrial membrane potential, elevated [Ca2+]i and the effects were additive with K+ depolarization in a calcium dependent manner that paralleled the effects of hypoxia. Together these results suggest that hypoxia-induced elevations of synaptosomal [Ca2+]i are due to an inability of the synaptosome to buffer entering calcium.
In order to assess the hypothesis that excitatory amino acids (EAA) are involved in the transmission of light information from retina to suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) and pineal via the retinohypothalamic tract (RHT), we have determined whether injections of EAA agonist into SCN could mimic the suppressive effects of light pulse on pineal melatonin production, and whether pretreatment with antagonists could block effects of light pulse in the intact rat. Injection of the EAA agonist N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA: 1.0 mM; 0.5 microliter) into the SCN suppressed plasma melatonin level and pineal N-acetyltransferase activity. The pretreatment with D-aminophosphonovalerate (D-APV: 2.5 or 10 mM; 2.0 microliters) or N-[1-(2-thienyl)-cyclohexyl]-piperidine (10 mM; 2.0 microliters) which are NMDA type receptor antagonists blocked the suppressive effect of the light pulse (3.0 Ix for 2 min), while the pretreatment with neither vehicle nor L-APV (optic isomer APV: 10 mM; 2.0 microliters) could block the effect of light. Alpha-D-glutamyl-amino-methylsulfonate (10 mM; 2.0 microliters or 25 mM; 2.0 microliters), which is a relative antagonist for non-NMDA type receptor, had no effect, either. These results suggest that EAA is involved in the transmission of light information through RHT and that in rat SCN EAA operates at the NMDA type receptor on the SCN.

A 19-year-old male intravenous drug abuser, was admitted to hospital with a one-week history of lower limb weakness and urinary retention. He was known to have been HIV-seropositive for 3 years and had been treated for cerebral toxoplasmosis. Neurological examination confirmed flaccid paraparesis with weak ankle jerks and bilateral extensor plantar responses. There was no obvious sensory deficit. Neurological examination was otherwise normal. CSF contained 63 mg/dl protein and 10 leucocytes/mm3. Myelography was normal. He died 1 month later from septic peritonitis. Neuropathological examination showed chronic lesions of toxoplasmosis in brain. Small necrotic foci with myelin loss, proliferation of microglia, macrophages and multinucleated giant cells (MGC) were disseminated in the whole spinal cord, mostly in the white matter, but the brain was spared. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated p24 and p17 HIV antigens in macrophages, MGC and microglial cells. These lesions resemble those of so called 'multifocal giant cell encephalitis'. The present case demonstrates that HIV-related multifocal inflammatory changes may be restricted to the spinal cord and may be a cause of myelopathy in AIDS patients.
An immunohistochemical analysis of the cat central nervous system revealed that a monoclonal antibody which recognizes a soluble cytosolic protein, R2D5, bound two regions in a prominent spatial gradient. In the medial and lateral superior olivary nuclei of the brainstem, R2D5 immunoreactivity appeared as a gradient across a population of topographically ordered principal neurons. The spatial gradient corresponded to the tonotopic organization in the superior olivary nuclei: i.e., R2D5 immunoreactivity tended to occur more frequently and intensely in low-frequency neurons than in high-frequency neurons. Granule cells in the hippocampal dentate gyrus also had a pronounced spatial gradient in R2D5 immunoreactivity expression, and this gradient corresponded to the septotemporal axis of the hippocampus. Granule cells of the temporal (ventral) portions of the hippocampus were labeled intensely with R2D5 antibody, while those located in progressively more septal (dorsal) portions had gradually less immunoreactivity. These results suggest that in both the superior olivary nuclei and the hippocampal dentate gyrus, neurons differ in intrinsic properties by their position along specific axes. They suggest also that the hippocampus has an intrinsic functional organization related to the spatial gradient along its septotemporal axis.
Using the single-electrode voltage-clamp technique, we have examined the effects of a non-N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist. Joro spider toxin (JSTX), and of an NMDA antagonist, zinc, on excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) evoked by stimulation of stratum radiatum in CA1 pyramidal cells of the guinea-pig hippocampal slice. Pressure application of a synthesized JSTX (JSTX-3) at 10-200 microM greatly reduced the EPSCs (14/19 cells). The block by JSTX-3 was observed in pyramidal cells where the EPSCs showed linear peak current-voltage (I-V) relations in the control. EPSCs remaining after JSTX-3 application showed non-linear peak I-V relationships (10/14 cells), and were blocked by puff application of the selective NMDA receptor antagonist DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate (APV) at 200 microM (6/10 cells). In the presence of JSTX-3, the decay time constant of the EPSC was increased and was less affected by membrane potential. JSTX-3 had no detectable effects on EPSCs apparently mediated solely by NMDA receptor. These observations suggest that JSTX-3 blocks excitatory synaptic transmission mainly by suppressing non-NMDA-receptor-mediated EPSCs, and that the JSTX-3-insensitive component is mediated at least in part by NMDA receptors in the hippocampal slice. Zinc (100-200 microM) reversibly attenuated EPSCs (6/9 cells) and appeared to block a slower component of the EPSCs, suggesting that mainly NMDA receptor-mediated currents were affected.
Previous work in our laboratory has shown that the intradentate administration of colchicine produces time-dependent behavioral and neurochemical changes. Deficits in learning and memory and alterations in the signal transduction process for the cholinergic muscarinic receptor have been observed up to 12 weeks after colchicine treatment. To study the long-term effects of colchicine administration on cognitive function and the cholinergic system, 6 month-old male, Fischer-344 rats were injected with 2.5 micrograms of colchicine bilaterally in the dorsal and ventral hippocampus. Twelve months later the animals were tested for the acquisition of a spatial reference memory task in the Morris water maze for 8 days, with 4 trials of 60 seconds each day. At the completion of the behavioral testing, one set of rats from each treatment group was used for histochemical studies. The remaining animals were sacrificed, the hippocampi removed and used for the estimation of receptor-stimulated turnover of phosphoinositides (Pl). [3H]-inositol was incorporated into the hippocampal slices, and various receptor agonists (carbachol, norepinephrine, serotonin) used to stimulate Pl turnover in the presence of lithium. A significant deficit in acquisition in the water maze was observed in animals 1 year after colchicine administration. Neurochemical studies showed an increase in carbachol-induced Pl metabolism in the rat hippocampus 1 year post-lesion with colchicine. However, in contrast to results obtained 12 weeks after lesioning, no significant changes were observed in norepinephrine or serotonin-induced Pl metabolism 1 year after lesioning. Pirenzepine, a M1 receptor antagonist, produced a greater degree of inhibition (62%) in lesioned animals as compared to the age-matched controls (20%). Increased staining for acetylcholinesterase was found in the hippocampus of treated rats. This effect is similar to that observed 12 weeks after lesioning. These data suggest that the effects of colchicine on the cholinergic system are long-lasting and can be observed a year after treatment.

We describe the clinical features and biochemical findings of two patients with long-chain 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency. Both children presented with an acute metabolic crisis. Both had hypoglycemia and excreted even-chain unsubstituted dicarboxylic and 3-hydroxy-dicarboxylic acids in the urine. Measurement of the enzymes of fatty acid oxidation in cultured skin fibroblasts showed low activity of long-chain 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase, but normal activity of short-chain 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase. The defect was further characterized by immunoprecipitating the short-chain enzyme using monospecific antibodies. It is probably inherited as an autosomal recessive trait, inasmuch as intermediate enzyme activity was found in the fibroblasts from the parents of one child.

Stimulation of the perforant path, a major input to the hippocampal formation, produced significant decreases in the hippocampal levels of methionine enkephalin, dynorphin A(1-8) and an increase in the hippocampal level of gamma-aminobutyric acid. In addition, it was also observed that both mu and delta opioid receptor antagonists reduce wet dog shakes elicited by perforant path stimulation. The antagonists did not affect the changes in hippocampal levels of methionine enkephalin, dynorphin A(1-8) or gamma-aminobutyric acid. The results demonstrate that endogenous opioids are involved in the wet dog shakes elicited by perforant path stimulation. Since electrographic seizure activity occurs in the hippocampus in conjunction with perforant path stimulation-induced wet dog shakes, these data provide further evidence that endogenous opioid peptides play an important role in regulation of limbic system epileptogenic phenomena.
To study the changes in the hippocampal cholinergic system of chronologically old and behaviorally impaired animals, old (21 months of age) and young (3 months of age) male, Fischer-344 rats were used. The aged animals were tested on a reference memory task (Morris water maze) and found to be functionally impaired as compared to the young controls. Carbachol-stimulated phosphoinositide metabolism was measured in hippocampal slices from young and old rats. Slices were prelabeled with 3H-inositol for 120 min and subjected to muscarinic stimulation in the presence of lithium. Following extraction of the slices with acidified solvent mixture, the inositolphosphates present in the aqueous fraction were isolated by ion exchange chromatography. Receptor-stimulated release of inositolphosphates (IPs) was found to be increased in the hippocampus of older animals. This age-related enhancement of IP release was in contrast to the decrease in choline acetyltransferase (CHAT) activity in the hippocampus. We postulate that alterations in the G-protein coupling with the muscarinic receptor leads to an increase in the phosphoinositide turnover in part as a compensatory mechanism for neuronal cell death and reduced transmitter levels.
Radioligand binding as well as molecular biological studies revealed an heterogeneity of serotonin (5-HT) receptors in the central nervous system. The early availability of specific antagonists for the serotonin-2 (5-HT2) receptor subtype (spiperone, ketanserin and ritanserin represented an important step towards the biochemical, physiological and, more recently, molecular characterization of 5-HT2 receptors in brain. Though they are unevenly distributed in different brain areas, they are highly expressed in the frontal cortex. Based on radioligand studies, either two different 5-HT2 receptors or one 5-HT2 receptor with two different affinity states might exist. Molecular biological studies revealed that the 5-HT2 receptor belongs to the G-protein receptor superfamily and the 5-HT2 receptor clone encodes a single-subunit protein containing approximately 450 amino acids arranged in seven interconnected transmembrane segments. Recent studies suggested that 5-HT itself might not represent the endogenous ligand for the 5-HT2 receptor. Isolation and purification of an endogenous peptide of mol. wt 6-8 kDa with affinity for [3H]ketanserin recognition sites further supports this possibility. The rapid advances in the molecular understanding of the 5-HT2 receptor and its putative endogenous ligand may have significant implications in the actual debate on the classification of the 5-HT2 receptor subtypes.
We have identified two distinct transcripts of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor by using the PCR on first-strand cDNAs from various rat tissues. The longer form, corresponding to the previously cloned adult rat brain inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor, contains a 120-nucleotide insert between the two cAMP-dependent protein kinase phosphorylation consensus sequences. The shorter form (lacking the insert) predominates in fetal brain and peripheral tissues and appears to represent a nonneuronal receptor, whereas the longer form is found in adult brain and appears to be exclusively neuronal. The phosphorylation kinetics by cAMP-dependent protein kinase and the phosphopeptide maps differ for inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors purified from tissues predominantly expressing different forms of the transcript.

The functional relations between nucleus accumbens and amygdala were investigated with intracranial microinjection, push-pull perfusion and radioimmunoassay in the rabbit. Microinjection of morphine 20 micrograms into nucleus accumbens increased the immunoreactive (ir) enkephalin content in amygdala perfusate from a control level of 0.43 +/- 0.43 fmol/0.5 ml (normal saline group) to 61.6 +/- 16.3 fmol/0.5 ml (P less than 0.01); and ir-beta-endorphin content from 1.88 +/- 0.98 fmol/0.5 ml to 4.80 +/- 1.12 fmol/0.5 ml (P less than 0.05). On the other hand, microinjection of morphine into amygdala increased the release of ir-enkephalins (2.41 +/- 1.41 vs 34.6 +/- 8.4, P less than 0.01) and ir-beta-endorphin (1.79 +/- 0.64 vs 5.58 +/- 1.39 P less than 0.05) in the perfusates of N. accumbens. The results indicate the existence of reciprocal reinforcement of opioid release between the two nuclei, which may take part in a putative positive feedback mechanism in the cerebral analgesic system.
The relationship between cognitive and language developments of ten profoundly mentally retarded children was examined through a longitudinal study. Cognitive processing tasks with matching-to-sample procedure were employed to examine the perceptual identification and representative function of objects. Concerning the development of language, both periods in which the comprehension and the utterance of object names emerged in each subject were recorded. There was no one-to-one correspondence between the onsets of representative function and language development, i.e. the comprehension of object names emerged not only before, but also a long time after, the onset of representative function. Also, there was little possibility that the utterance of object names emerged simultaneously at the onset of representation.
The current uncertain status of the republics of the USSR poses special problems for the future development of their scientific communities. The system of Institutes within an Academy, on which most Eastern European research was modelled, was developed in the USSR. Because of the Republic of Georgia's relatively small population, its research might be especially at risk if collaborative integration with other Republics and the West is not achieved.
The most familiar usage of animal models of depression is as antidepressant screening tests. Paul Willner reviews their usage in a different context--as simulations of depression. The behavioural features of animal models of depression are compared with clinical symptomatology, and the contribution of animal models to understanding the following aspects of depression are reviewed: sources of population variability, natural history, psychological aspects, symptomatology and mechanisms of antidepressant action. Finally, the role of animal models of depression is considered as a critical interface between basic behavioural neuroscience and the clinic.

In adult mammals, the severing of the optic nerve near the eye is followed by a loss of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) and a failure of axons to regrow into the brain. Experimental manipulations of the non-neuronal environment of injured RGCs enhance neuronal survival and make possible a lengthy axonal regeneration that restores functional connections with the superior colliculus. These effects suggest that injured nerve cells in the mature central nervous system (CNS) are strongly influenced by interactions with components of their immediate environment as well as their targets. Under these conditions, injured CNS neurons can express capacities for growth and differentiation that resemble those of normally developing neurons. An understanding of this regeneration in the context of the cellular and molecular events that influence the interactions of axonal growth cones with their non-neuronal substrates and neuronal targets should help in the further elucidation of the capacities of neuronal systems to recover from injury.
The floor plate is a set of epithelial cells present in the ventral midline of the neural tube in vertebrates that seems to have an important role in the developmental patterning of central nervous system fibre pathways, and arrangements of specific neurons. The floor plate arises from dorsal ectodermal cells closely associated with the mesoderm that forms notochord, and it may depend on interactions from the notochord for its specification. To learn the nature of these interactions we have analysed mutations in zebrafish (Brachydanio rerio). We report here that in wild-type embryos the floor plate develops as a simply organized single cell row, but that its development fails in embryos bearing the newly discovered zygotic lethal 'cyclops' mutation, cyc-1(b16). Mosaic analysis establishes that cyc-1 blocks floor plate development autonomously and reveals the presence of homeogenetic induction between floor plate cells.
We sought to determine the site of action and receptor type responsible for the antihypertensive actions of rilmenidine, an oxazoline analogue of clonidine. In anesthetized paralyzed rats decerebration did not alter the dose dependent reductions in arterial pressure and heart rate elicited by i.v. drug. Rilmenidine microinjected bilaterally into the C1 area of the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVL), but not nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS) nor caudal ventrolateral medulla (CVL), elicited dose-dependent falls in arterial pressure and heart rate at doses an order of magnitude less than required systemically. Prior microinjection into the C1 area of the selective alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist SKF-86466, even at high doses, failed to modify the hypotension to i.v. rilmenidine. However, microinjection of 3- to 10-fold lower doses of idazoxan, a ligand for imidazole as well as alpha 2-adrenoceptors, blocked the effects. Rilmenidine also competed with the clonidine analogue [3H]p-aminoclonidine ([3H]PAC) at specific binding sites in membranes of bovine ventrolateral medulla and frontal cortex. In RVL rilmenidine competed with binding to imidazole and alpha 2-adrenergic binding sites with a 30-fold selectivity for the imidazole binding sites. In frontal cortex binding was of lower affinity and restricted to alpha 2-adrenergic sites. We conclude that rilmenidine, like clonidine, acts to lower arterial pressure by an action on imidazole receptors in the C1 area of RVL. The higher selectivity of rilmenidine for imidazole to alpha 2-adrenoceptors as compared to clonidine may explain the lower sedative effects of rilmenidine.
Mutations have been made in the exposed region of the avian troponin C central helix, the D/E linker, which change its length and the orientation of the Ca2(+)-binding domains relative to each other. The region 87Glu-Asp-Ala-Lys-Gly-Lys-Ser-Glu-Glu-Glu97 has been altered in five deletion (d) mutants: dEDA, dKG, dKGK, dSEEE, and dKEDAKGK. The recombinant troponin Cs were expressed in Escherichia coli, purified, and assayed for function. All mutants retained basic troponin C function. They all bound Ca2+ to the low and high affinity sites, and they all were able to confer Ca2+ sensitivity on the regulated actomyosin ATPase. However, the regulatory function of all mutants except dSEEE was defective in one part of the Ca2+ switch or the other. In certain conditions dKGK and dKEDAKGK failed to inhibit fully whereas dEDA and dKG failed to activate the regulated actomyosin ATPase fully. The following general conclusions have been made. (a) The length of the D/E linker per se (assuming the linker is helical) and the orientation of the two Ca2(+)-binding domains relative to each other are not crucial for regulation. (b) The conserved charge cluster 95Glu-Glu-Glu97, in a region of troponin C known to bind to troponin I and postulated to be required for regulation, appears to be unimportant for function. (c) Deletion of 88Glu-Asp-Ala90 resulted in a troponin C that could not activate the actomyosin (or S1) ATPase over the level of actomyosin alone, thus defining a role for troponin C in this aspect of thin filament regulation. The results have been interpreted in terms of the crystallographic structure of troponin C and related to results with analogous calmodulin mutants.
To determine if reported reductions of regional cerebral metabolic rates for glucose (rCMRglc) induced by the 5-HT agent metachlorophenylpiperazine (MCPP) (2.5 mg/kg) are due to a presynaptic action, 3-month old Fischer-344 rats were given parachloroamphetamine (PCA), a serotonin neurotoxin, and rCMRglc was measured 1 or 3 weeks later with the quantitative autoradiographic [14C]2-deoxyglucose procedure in 74 brain regions after administering saline, MCPP or other drugs. PCA alone increased rCMRglc significantly only in the raphe nuclei and in visual structures (visual cortex, lateral geniculate, superior colliculus). MCPP alone reduced rCMRglc in 75% of the regions studied. In PCA-lesioned rats, metabolic responses to MCPP 2.5 mg/kg were virtually abolished and rCMRglc was increased in interanteromedial and centrolateral thalamic nuclei. rCMRglc responses to quipazine, a postsynaptic serotonin agonist, and to arecoline and bromocriptine, cholinergic and dopaminergic agonists, were unchanged by PCA-pretreatment. Selective abolition by PCA of the metabolic response to MCPP confirms that MCPP, at the dose studied, reduces rCMRglc in the forebrain via a presynaptic mechanism and that postsynaptic serotonergic function is not altered by PCA.
The majority of acetylcholinesterase-rich pyramidal neurons in neocortical layers III and V of the human brain displayed intense immunostaining with SMI-32, a monoclonal antibody which recognizes a non-phosphorylated epitope of neurofilament proteins. In contrast, very few of the heteromorphic acetylcholinesterase-rich perikarya embedded in the white matter of the cerebral hemispheres are associated with this type of immunostaining. These two groups of acetylcholinesterase-rich cortical neurons can thus be differentiated not only on the basis of morphology and location but also on the basis of cytochemical signature. The concurrent visualization of SMI-32 immunoreactivity and acetylcholinesterase enzyme activity also showed that SMI-32 immunoreactive neurons can be subdivided into several subgroups on the basis of their perikaryal acetylcholinesterase activity.
Accumulation of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) in Mller cells has been observed in retinas of several mammalian species secondary to genetically induced degeneration and neuronal injury. In the present series of experiments, I have examined the effects of the rd (retinal degeneration) mutation on the expression of GFAP in retinas of chicks homozygous for the mutation (rd/rd) prior to and following the onset of photoreceptor degeneration, which first appears approximately 7 days posthatch (7 dph). Carrier (+/rd) and wild-type (+/+) retinas served as controls. Retinas taken from 1, 7, 21, and 33 dph rd/rd, +/rd, and +/+ chicks were analyzed for the presence of GFAP by immunocytochemical and SDS-PAGE/Western blot techniques. The following immunocytochemical observations were made: (1) GFAP immunostaining was limited to and located throughout the Mller cells. (2) The intensity of GFAP immunostaining increased with age in all three retina types in tissue sections, as well as on immunoblots. (3) The distribution of GFAP staining within rd/rd Mller cells following the onset of degeneration was slightly different from that observed in +/+ and +/rd retinas and was distinguished by increased staining of the cell bodies and the cell processes forming the outer limiting membrane. The results of these experiments show that Mller cells in chick retina contain GFAP. In addition, they suggest that, in contrast to Mller cells in degenerating mammalian retina, Mller cells in rd chick retina do not accumulate large amounts of GFAP in response to degeneration.

A method is described for flow microfluorometric analysis of calcium mobilization in immune cells. This method is based on dual-color analysis of heterogeneous cell populations using fluo-3 and phycoerythrin (PE)-conjugated monoclonal antibody (mAb). This technique allows the detection of fluo-3 fluorescence as a measure of an increase in cytoplasmic free calcium ([Ca2+]i) while simultaneously discriminating PE-mAb-labeled cells without using wavelength ratio imaging. This method provides a unique way to distinguish patterns of calcium mobilization within a heterogeneous cell population.
In a previous study, extraocular muscle proprioception (E.O.M.P.) was shown to play an important role in the postnatal development of depth perception: following unilateral or bilateral sections of the ophthalmic branch of the trigeminal nerve (V1th nerve) performed at 6-8 weeks of age, the binocular thresholds were 2 to 3 times higher than in control animals. Since the V1-sections produced no deficits when performed in adults, the temporal limits of a period of susceptibility remained to be determined. In order to assess the lower and upper limits of the period during which these perceptual deficits could be induced, unilateral or bilateral V1-sections were performed in kittens at different ages. Depth perception thresholds were measured by using the jumping stand technique. Sections of the V1 nerve only produced significant impairments of the binocular depth thresholds when performed after 3 weeks of age. They could be observed when unilateral sections were performed at up to 13 weeks of age and with bilateral sections at up to 10 weeks of age. These functional impairments appeared to remain permanently through adult life.
The serotonin-3 (5-HT3) agonist 1-phenylbiguanide (0.1-1.0 mM in perfusate) caused a robust, dose-dependent enhancement of extracellular dopamine content in nucleus accumbens as measured by in vivo microdialysis. This action was antagonized by co-perfusion of the 5-HT3 antagonists zacopride and GR38032F (1 mM in perfusate). Similar effects were observed in 5-HT-denervated rats. These findings suggest that there is a potent modulation of dopamine (DA) release in the nucleus accumbens mediated via 5-HT3 receptors, which appear to be located presynaptically on DA terminals of the mesolimbic DA pathway.
We have developed an in vitro model of rapid acceleration injury (RAI) to study the effects of multiple impact (220 g/impact, 3-5 s intervals) trauma on cultures of mammalian CNS cells. Our initial investigations have shown that: (1) multiple impacts delivered tangential to the plane of growth caused neuronal death while normal impacts did not; (2) glia were not affected by tangential or normal RAI; (3) most neuronal death occurred within 15 min; (4) the threshold for neuronal death was above 440 g (cumulative); (5) neuronal death reached a maximum of 50% at cumulative accelerations greater than or equal to 1100 g; (6) somal swelling and increased nuclear prominence were often observed after tangential RAI, and the frequency of these changes increased with the cumulative acceleration; and (7) ketamine prevented neuronal death and morphological changes during tangential RAI. We hypothesize that neuronal sensitivity to multiple impact RAI depends on the density of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) complexes in the dendrosomatic membranes. We also hypothesize that the events leading to neuronal death during multiple impact injury are: (1) calcium leakage through NMDA channels causes weakening of the cytoskeleton; (2) loss of cytoskeletal integrity allows nuclear shifting during impact; and (3) nuclear pressure disrupts the plasmalemma causing a lethal influx of calcium.
The ability of muscarinic receptors, present in either the cell surface or sequestered compartments of intact human SK-N-SH neuroblastoma cells, to stimulate phosphoinositide hydrolysis has been examined. When cells were first exposed to carbachol for 1 h at 37 degrees C, approximately 50% of the cell surface receptors became sequestered, and this was accompanied by a comparable reduction in the subsequent ability of muscarinic agonists to stimulate phosphoinositide turnover, as monitored by the release of labeled inositol phosphates at 10 degrees C. At this temperature, muscarinic receptor cycling between the two cell compartments is prevented. Upon warming the carbachol-pretreated cells to 37 degrees C, receptor cycling is reinitiated and stimulated phosphoinositide turnover is fully restored within 5-8 min. When measured at 10 degrees C, the reduction of stimulated phosphoinositide turnover observed following carbachol pretreatment was similar in magnitude for both hydrophilic (carbachol, oxotremorine-M) and lipophilic (arecoline, oxotremorine-2, and L-670,548) agonists. The loss of response for both groups of agonists could be prevented if the incubation temperature was maintained at 37 degrees C, rather than at 10 degrees C. At the latter temperature carbachol pretreatment of SK-N-SH cells reduced the maximum release of inositol phosphates elicited by either carbachol or L-670,548 but not the agonist concentrations required for half-maximal stimulation. Radioligand binding studies, carried out at 10 degrees C, indicate that following receptor sequestration, significantly higher concentrations of carbachol were required to occupy the available muscarinic receptor sites. In contrast the lipophilic full agonist L-670,548 recognized receptors present in control and carbachol-pretreated cells with comparable affinities. Analysis of the inositol lipids present after carbachol pretreatment indicate that only a minimal depletion of the substrates necessary for phospholipase C activation had occurred. The results indicate that the agonist-induced sequestration of muscarinic receptors from the cell surface results in a loss of stimulated phosphoinositide hydrolysis when measured under conditions in which the return of the sequestered receptors to the cell surface is prevented. Thus, only those receptors present at the cell surface are linked to phospholipase C activation.
Retrograde transport of Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin (PHA-L), fluorogold, fast blue, rhodamine labelled microspheres, and horseradish peroxidase (HRP) was employed to study the distribution, laminar location within the optic tectum, and morphology of tectal cells projecting upon the isthmo-optic nucleus (ION) and the nucleus isthmi, pars parvocellularis (Ipc), in the pigeon and chick. Following injections into the ION, all retrograde markers labelled tecto-ION neurons and their dendrites in the ipsilateral tectum. The cells were located within a relatively narrow band at the border between layers 9 and 10 of the stratum griseum et fibrosum superficiale (SGFS). Retrogradely labelled neuronal somata were different in both dendritic branching and shape; however, tecto-ION neurons generally possessed non-spiny radially oriented and multi-branched dendrites. The apical processes extended into the retino-recipient layers (2-7) of the SGFS and basal dendrites extended into layers 12-14 of the SGFS. Positive neuronal somata were observed throughout the rostro-caudal extent of the optic tectum. The average distance between adjacent tecto-ION neurons varied from one region to another. Specifically, retrogradely labelled cells were more numerous in the caudal, lateral, and ventral tectum, and less numerous at rostro-dorsal levels. Approximately 12,000 tecto-ION neurons were labelled within the ipsilateral optic tectum following either PHA-L or fluorescent dye injections. While the regional distribution of tecto-Ipc neurons was not examined, the morphology indicated that the cells had a single radially oriented dendritic process. Therefore, the apical dendrites are more restricted than those of tecto-ION cells. Moreover, the dendrites were spiny and arborized within layers 3, 5, and 9 of the ipsilateral optic tectum. The axon of tecto-Ipc cells arise from the apical process as a shepherd's crook and descend into the deep layers of the optic tectum. These results indicate that 1) tecto-ION and tecto-Ipc neurons are possibly monosynaptically activated by retinal input, 2) tecto-ION neurons are heterogeneous in morphology, and 3) there is a differential distribution of the tecto-ION neurons throughout the rostro-caudal extent of the optic tectum, suggesting a greater representation of the caudo-ventral portion of the optic tectum within the ION. The discussion primarily concerns the organization of the retino-tecto-ION-retinal circuit in light of the distribution and morphology of tecto-ION neurons within the optic tectum.
The analysis of proteins from single cells requires techniques of supreme sensitivity. Although radiochemical procedures are capable of detecting small amounts of electrophoretically separated proteins, their sensitivity falls short of that required for routine detection of minor components of single cells. Utilizing the avidin-biotin interaction and the alkaline phosphatase substrate 3-(4-methoxyspiro[1,2-dioxetane-3,2'- tricyclo-[3.3.1.1(3,7)]decan]-4-yl)phenyl phosphate (AMPPD), we have developed an alternative, chemiluminescence-based method for protein detection whose sensitivity exceeds that of other methods. Applying this method to a purified protein, we could detect as little as 63 fg (0.9 amol) of biotinylated bovine serum albumin. The sensitivity of the method was demonstrated by the detection of proteins from individual photoreceptor outer segments, including proteins constituting approximately 1% of the total. Chemiluminescence detection also proved extremely sensitive for immunoblotting: a comparison of five methods for detection of antibody-antigen interactions showed that the AMPPD technique was more sensitive than detection with a colorimetric alkaline phosphatase substrate, 125I-labeled protein A, 125I-labeled anti-mouse IgG, or colloidal gold-conjugated anti-mouse IgG.
Repeated administration of cocaine elicits substantial, long-lasting, but reversible reductions in neuropeptide Y (NPY) and NPY mRNA in the rat cerebral cortex and nucleus accumbens. The NPY reduction appears to be mediated through a decrease in NPY biosynthesis, occurring transneuronally, perhaps in response to changes in synaptic dopamine associated with mesolimbic and mesocortical dopamine neurons. The medial prefrontal cortex appears necessary for maintenance of cocaine's action on this neuronal network since excitotoxic lesions of this area prevented (lesion before cocaine) and reversed (lesion after cocaine) the reductions in NPY elicited by the cocaine. NPY may be a sensitive marker for chronic cocaine use. Its decrease may relate to the anxiety and depression associated with cocaine withdrawal in humans.
We have previously demonstrated that the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) receptor is phosphorylated by cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA). In the present study, phosphorylation of IP3 receptors has been examined with purified receptor protein reconstituted in liposomes to remove detergent that can inhibit protein kinases. The IP3 receptor is stoichiometrically phosphorylated by protein kinase C (PKC) and Ca2+ calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaM kinase II) as well as by PKA. Phosphorylation by the three enzymes is additive and involves different peptide sequences. Phosphorylation by PKC, which is stimulated by Ca2+ and diacylglycerol, and by CaM kinase II, which requires Ca2+, provides means whereby Ca2+ and diacylglycerol, formed during inositol phospholipid turnover, may regulate IP3 receptor physiology.
Immunohistochemical localization of pertussis toxin-sensitive GTP-binding proteins in rat cerebellum was investigated using antibodies raised against purified G alpha o and synthetic peptides corresponding to specific sequences of G alpha i1, G alpha i2 and G alpha o was detected mostly in the molecular layer but not in the cell body of the Purkinje cells. G alpha i1 and G alpha i2 were found predominantly in the molecular layer and in addition in the cell body of the Purkinje cells. G alpha i3 was not detected in rat cerebellum. Immunoblot analysis demonstrated that in the cerebellum membrane G alpha 0 was most abundant and surprisingly the amount of G alpha i2 was much higher than that of G alpha i1. Thus, each pertussis toxin substrate was found to be expressed differently in rat cerebellum. The different patterns of expression imply that each subtype of GTP-binding proteins may have a specific function in modulating the neuronal activity in rat cerebellum.



Intracellular microelectrode recording/labelling techniques were used to investigate vestibular afferent responses in the bullfrog, to very small amplitude (less than 0.5 degree p-p) sinusoidal rotations in the vertical plane over the frequency range of 0.063-4 Hz. The axis of rotation was congruent with the axis of the anterior semicircular canal. Robust responses to peak accelerations as low as 0.031 degree/S2 were obtained from units subsequently traced to either the central portion of the anterior canal crista or the striolar region of the utricle. All of these microrotationally sensitive afferent neurons had irregular resting discharge rates and the majority had transfer ratios (relative to rotational velocity) of 1-40 spikes/s per degree/s. Individual utricular afferent velocity transfer ratios were nearly constant over the frequency range of 0.125-4 Hz. Canal units generally displayed decreasing response transfer ratios as stimulus frequencies increased. These findings indicate that although utricular striolar and central crista afferent velocity transfer ratios to microrotations were very similar, utricular striolar afferent neurons were more faithful sensors of very small amplitude rotational velocity in the vertical plane.
Previous studies have shown that immature but not mature astrocytes have the capacity to suppress glial scar formation and enhance axon outgrowth when transplanted into the adult mouse brain. We report here that glial scar formation is suppressed following transplantation of purified immature but not mature cultured type-1 rat cortical astrocytes into the adult rat brain. To examine the fate of transplanted cells, cultured astrocytes were labeled with either fluorescent beads or BSA-conjugated colloidal gold and traced after transplantation using both light and electron microscopy. While both immature and mature astrocytes survived transplantation, mature astrocytes appeared more susceptible to phagocytosis by cells of the immune system than immature astrocytes. Furthermore, while mature astrocytes were restricted to the region of the implant, immature astrocytes migrated into the surrounding CNS and became closely associated with host blood vessels. Such blood vessels were impermeable to the diffusion of systematically applied Evans blue dye. To determine whether immature astrocytes were intrinsically more motile than mature astrocytes, their rate of translocation was compared in vitro. Immature astrocytes translocated more than twice as fast as mature astrocytes. This ability of immature astrocytes to translocate throughout the host CNS and become associated with blood vessels may be a major factor in their ability to suppress glial scar formation in the adult animal.
The localization of prostaglandin endoperoxide synthase in monkey brain was investigated by the immunoperoxidase method using the monoclonal antibody (PES-7) raised against the enzyme purified from bovine seminal vesicle. The frozen sections with 30-microns thickness were employed after the brain was fixed with perfusion of 2% paraformaldehyde in phosphate-buffered saline. The immunoreactivity was most intense in the neurons of cerebral cortex and hippocampus, and was moderate in the neurons of caudate nucleus, putamen, globus pallidus and amygdala, while it was relatively weak in glial cells in the whole brain regions including the white matter. The majority of neurons showed the immunoreactivity in the somata and proximal dendrites, but exceptionally in the pyramidal cells of the hippocampus, positive staining was also observed in the apical dendrites. In the cerebellum, the immunoreactivity in both neurons and glia was rather faint as compared with that in other regions. Positive staining was not significantly observed in the vasculatures and arachnoid membranes. These findings indicate that most of neuronal and glial cells in monkey brain contain the enzyme of the rate-limiting and initial step of the biosynthesis of prostaglandins which regulate a variety of neural functions.
The present study focuses on 3 different aspects of the descending adrenergic system in the primate: (1) the distribution of adrenergic fibers and terminals in the spinal cord, (2) the source of this input and (3) the possible physiological effects of this system on spinal nociceptive processing. Antibodies to the enzyme phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase (PNMT) were employed to map the distribution of epinephrine-containing axonal profiles in the primate spinal cord. Smooth longitudinally oriented fibers were localized to the outer edge of the lateral funiculus. PNMT-containing axonal enlargements were distributed to the superficial dorsal horn, intermediate gray matter and the region surrounding the central canal at all spinal cord levels. PNMT-immunostained profiles were also observed in the intermediolateral cell column. A double labeling study employing retrograde transport of HRP from the spinal cord and PNMT immunohistochemistry identified a small population of HRP-PNMT-labeled neurons in the 'C1' region at the levels of the medulla and ponto-medullary junction. Thus, these cells are a probable source of adrenergic input to the spinal cord. Electrophysiological studies demonstrated that iontophoresis of epinephrine onto identified primate spinothalamic tract neurons in the lumbar dorsal horn resulted in inhibition of the glutamate-induced firing of these cells. The data from these studies support the hypothesis that adrenergic (PNMT-containing) cells in the caudal brainstem project to all levels of the cord and may contribute to descending modulation of nociceptive processing at these levels.
Many nascent proteins that are destined to be anchored to plasma membranes by a phosphatidylinositol glycan (PI-G) are in the range of 50-70 kDa so that changes of 2-3 kDa between precursors and products during processing are not easily detected. Furthermore, PI-G-anchored proteins are generally glycosylated so that changes between the nascent (prepro) proteins and the mature products are not due simply to the loss of signal peptides. These problems have made it difficult to monitor the processing of the prepro form of wild type human placental alkaline phosphatase (PLAP) in a cell-free system. We have designed a smaller and simpler substrate of PI-G &quot;transamidase&quot; derived by deletion of approximately 60% of the internal sequence of preproPLAP 513. This engineered protein, preprominiPLAP 208, retains the NH2- and COOH-terminal signal peptides of PLAP as well as all the epitopes for site-directed antibodies of the latter, but is devoid of glycosylation sites, the active site, and most of the cysteine residues. With preprominiPLAP, it has been possible to demonstrate, in a cell-free system, step by step conversion to the pro form and then to the mature form, with the concomitant loss of the appropriate signal peptides. These changes were shown to be time- and enzyme concentration-dependent. Studies with Asp-179 site-directed mutants of preprominiPLAP showed the same specificity for amino acids with a monosubstituted beta carbon at the cleavage/attachment site that were found previously with wild type PLAP.


Thyroid function was evaluated in 150 Sardinian outpatients at different stages of lithium treatment. A visible and/or palpable goitre was found in 51% of patients, and there was no apparent correlation with the duration of treatment. No cases of symptomatic hypothyroidism were observed, but subclinical hypothyroidism was present in 19% of patients. The prevalence of specific antithyroid antibodies was positively correlated with age and duration of lithium treatment, and was higher in women. Subclinical hypothyroidism was observed in 53% of antibody-positive lithium-treated patients. Carbamazepine in combination with lithium was associated with significantly lower levels of total T4 and T3 than with lithium alone, and the ratios between total and free hormones were also decreased.
Peripheral nerve injuries are caused by traction, laceration and missile injury. Primary surgical repair is recommended for clean, sharp injuries that cause transection of a nerve. In compressed, stretched or contused nerves, surgical repair at three months is indicated if functional recovery has not occurred. Electromyography and nerve conduction studies are helpful in deciding which patients need secondary repair. Recovery is possible for 18 months following injury. Since nerve regeneration occurs at a rate of one inch per month, the distance from the nerve injury to the innervated muscle must be less than 18 inches. Therefore, the outcome is generally better in distal lesions than in proximal ones.
We examined the relationships between intracellular pH (pHi) and interstitial pH (pHe) in a rat model of focal ischemia. Interstitial pH was measured with pH-sensitive microelectrodes, and the average tissue pH was measured with the [14C]dimethadione method in rats subjected to occlusion of the right middle cerebral and common carotid arteries (MCA-CCAO). In normal cortex, pHe and pHi were 7.24 +/- 0.97 and 7.01 +/- 0.13 (means +/- SD, n = 6), respectively. In the ischemic cortex, pHe fell to 6.43 +/- 0.13, whereas pHi decreased only to 6.86 +/- 0.11 (n = 5) 1 h after MCA-CCAO. After 4 h of ischemia, the pHe was 6.61 +/- 0.09 and pHi was 6.62 +/- 0.20 (n = 4). Treatment with glucose before ischemia markedly lowered the pHe (5.88 +/- 0.17) but not pHi (6.83 +/- 0.03, n = 4) measured 1 h after ischemia. In the ischemic cortex of animals made hypoglycemic by pretreatment with insulin, neither pHe (7.25 +/- 0.06) nor pHi (6.99 +/- 0.13, n = 4) decreased. The demonstrated difference in pHi and pHe indicates that some cells remained sufficiently functional to maintain a plasma membrane gradient of protons within the evolving infarct. If the calculated pHi values accurately reflect the true pHi of cells within zones of severe focal ischemia, then cerebral infarction can proceed at pHi levels not greatly altered from normal.
Gap junctions, dye coupling, and junctional conductance were studied in a cell line (WB) that is derived from rat liver and displays a phenotype similar to &quot;oval&quot; cells. In freeze-fracture replicas, two distinctive particle sizes were detected in gap junctional plaques. Immunocytochemical studies indicated punctate staining at membrane appositions using antibodies to connexin 43 and to a brain gap junction-associated antigen (34 kDa). No staining was observed using antibodies prepared against rat liver gap junction proteins (connexins 32 and 26). Pairs of WB cells were electrically and dye coupled. Junctional conductance (gj) between cell pairs averaged approximately 10 nS; occasionally, gj was low enough that unitary junctional conductances (gamma j) could be detected. Using a CsCl-containing electrode solution, distinctive gamma j values were recorded: approximately 20-30 pS, approximately 80-90 pS, and the sum of the other sizes. The largest gamma j events were apparently due to random coincident openings or closures of the smaller channels. Several treatments reduced gj. Frequency distributions of gamma j were unaltered by 2 mM halothane or 3.5 heptanol, but the sizes of intermediate and largest events were reduced slightly by 100 nM phorbol ester, and the relative frequency of the largest events was increased by 10 microM glutaraldehyde. We conclude that the distinctive gamma j values represent openings and closures of two distinct types of gap junction channels rather than substates of a single channel type; these unitary conductances may correspond to the dual immunoreactivity and to the two particle sizes seen in freeze fracture.
Bladders from March-April turtles were processed for carbonic anhydrase (CA) cytochemically using the method of D.A. Riley, S. Ellis, and J. Bain (Neuroscience 13: 189, 1984). CA-positive cells comprised 11.1 +/- 0.7% of mucosal epithelial cells. Microplicated (MP) cells comprised 47.2 +/- 1.8% of CA-positive cells and displayed at least two distinct staining patterns: the first was characterized by reaction product that filled the luminal one-third, including the terminal web and microplicae. These cells possessed extensive microplicae, a morphological feature of ongoing H+ secretion. The second was characterized by reaction product distributed throughout cells, excluding the terminal web and microplicae, with greatest intensity in the luminal one-third below the terminal web. These cells possessed flattened microplicae, a morphological feature of diminished H+ secretion. Microvillated (MV) cells comprised 6.0 +/- 1.0% of CA-reactive cells. The basal layer was occupied by 46.8 +/- 1.7% of CA-positive cells, which were termed subluminal (SL) cells. SL cells were mitochondrial rich and did not contact the lumen. Extracellular CA staining was common between the lateral margins of contiguous mitochondrial-rich or non-mitochondrial-rich cells.
We report the presence of excitatory and inhibitory spontaneous and evoked synaptic currents in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (DMV) in the rat upon vagal and perivagal stimulation. Whole cell current-clamp recordings from anatomically identified DMV neurons in rat brain stem slices show that these neurons are capable of sustained slow-frequency action potential firing probably because of the presence of pacemaker current. Spontaneously occurring, tetrodotoxin-resistant miniature inhibitory and excitatory synaptic potentials were observed. Stimulation of the vagus mostly induced antidromic action potentials in DMV neurons. However, careful positioning of the stimulating electrode in the tissue surrounding the recording neuron, and sometimes in the vagus itself, was capable of evoking orthodromic-evoked mixed inhibitory-excitatory postsynaptic potentials, and eventually, action potentials. Whole cell voltage-clamp recordings of the synaptic currents corresponding to these synaptic potentials in the presence of pharmacological antagonists of the neurotransmitters gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), glutamate, and glycine receptor subtypes indicate that the inhibitory synaptic currents are mediated by GABA-activated Cl- channels, while the excitatory synaptic currents are due to activation of ionotropic glutamate receptors of the N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) and non-NMDA subtypes.

The N1 and P3 auditory evoked potentials were recorded to evaluate their usefulness as measures of the level of consciousness in 14 ASA physical status I and II patients undergoing elective surgery. The anesthetic agents were thiopental, fentanyl, and isoflurane with or without nitrous oxide. Recordings were carried out before induction (preinduction) and during induction, surgical anesthesia, emergence, and recovery from anesthesia. The auditory response was evoked by 700-Hz tones that occurred occasionally and unpredictably in a train of 500-Hz tones delivered at 40 per second. The patients were asked to press a button whenever they detected a 700-Hz tone. Studies with normal subjects have repeatedly shown that detected tones (HITS) evoke N1 and P3 waves, whereas undetected tones (MISSES) evoke no recognizable waves. The responses evoked by HITS were compared with those evoked by MISSES. The amplitudes of N1 and P3 were significantly different from zero for HITS before induction and during induction and recovery but not during emergence. The amplitudes of N1 and P3 were not different from zero for MISSES during induction, surgery, and emergence. During recovery, the N1 and P3 for MISSES were small and the P3 for HITS was significantly larger than for MISSES. The results indicate that except during emergence, HITS were associated with clear N1 and P3 waves, whereas MISSES were not. The lack of either N1 or P3 for HITS during emergence perhaps occurred because the patients, although responsive, were not yet fully conscious. The N1 and P3 components of the auditory evoked potential may provide specific indicators for consciousness.
Spasmodic dysphonia is a disturbance of phonation with laryngeal spasms. We report voice and neurologic examination findings in 45 subjects. Neurologic abnormalities were found in 32 subjects (71.1%). Rapid alternating movement abnormalities, weakness, and tremor were common. Incoordination and spasticity were rare. Lower extremity findings were frequent. Abnormalities were bilateral. Spasmodic dysphonia severity was related to age. Type, severity, and duration of vocal symptoms were not different for subjects with or without neurologic abnormalities. Vocal tremor was more frequent in neurologically abnormal subjects. Involvement of a pallidothalamic-supplementary motor area system could account for neurologic findings, brain imaging findings, and clinical heterogeneity. The view emerging is that spasmodic dysphonia is a manifestation of disordered motor control involving systems of neurons rather than single anatomical sites.

Reasons for the unsatisfactory number and reliability of most trials on the pharmacological treatment of acute cerebral ischemia are reviewed, focusing mainly on the clinical aspects of the issue. The opportunity of early intervention, supported by current pathophysiological hypotheses, is recognized. Past and recent Italian trials on ischemic stroke patients evaluated and treated within the first 6 h from onset are reported, also mentioning the results of a study including early cerebral angiography and SPECT (Single Photon Emission Computed Tomography). Early fibrinolytics associated to brain protecting agents are regarded as the future choice in clinical trials of acute cerebral ischemia.
Increasing sophistication in the neurosciences has re-stimulated expectations that the underlying biological mechanisms involved in the psychoses might finally be clarified. These expectations however coexist with a sense of mounting frustration over the continuing failure of such progress to occur. One important factor in this failure is an enduring reliance upon obsolete nosological concepts and tools. The persistence of concepts such as schizophrenia and manic-depressive illness, which are substantially based upon unsustainable assumptions concerning the relationship between pathophysiology, symptoms and outcome, interferes with the appropriate deployment of new technologies and the interpretation of the resulting data. As many have suspected for some time, we are in a state of chronic paradigm failure, yet the lack of a superior alternative makes it difficult to dispense with traditional concepts. Following a review of the principal nosological paradigms, it is argued that the psychopathology of psychosis is more fluid than acknowledged by the dominant neo-Kraepelinian paradigm in particular. An alternative, which may be termed the loose linkage model, is proposed, which though it falls short of full paradigm status, does represent more accurately the true state of affairs in psychotic disorder, with fewer historical preconceptions. Its importance lies particularly in its significance for research strategy, and its capacity to minimise early iatrogenic sequelae of the diagnostic process and permit a more honest approach to clinical care.
The hypothesis of asymmetric otolith function asserts that physiological or anatomical differences in the two sides of the bilateral gravity-sensing otolith apparatus of the inner ear may be well compensated on Earth, but when exposed to novel gravitational states, the prior compensatory stratagems may be ineffective, leading to unstable vestibular responses and causing the phenomenon of space motion sickness. To investigate this hypothesis, spontaneous eye torsion, a reflex governed by the otolith organs, was examined in the upright position during the hypo- and hypergravity of parabolic flight aboard NASA's KC-135 aircraft in nine former astronauts whose history of space motion sickness was revealed after data analysis had been completed. Results showed that astronauts who had been sick in space had significantly higher scores of disconjugate eye torsion in parabolic flight, and that their responses were consistently different in 1.8 G relative to 0 G compared to astronauts who had not been sick in space. In 1 G, there were no differences in disconjugate eye torsion between the subjects. The results support the asymmetry hypothesis and offer a possible predictive test of space motion sickness.
Human sexuality and sexual function may be profoundly affected by a number of neurologic illnesses and injuries. While nurses have historically supported the value of the holistic approach to patient care, sexuality (as a routine component of the recovery process) has frequently been neglected. Nurses' discomfort with this topic must be addressed in order to maximize patients' adjustment to any sexual changes. The purpose of this presentation is to reduce some of the anxiety surrounding the topic of sexuality, by suggesting strategies which nurses may find useful in approaching the subject and approaches to initiating the discussion outlined. Finally, a theoretical framework for promoting sexual health will be presented and its congruence with popular nursing models briefly examined. &quot;Sexual counselling should be directed as to supporting a client's ability to make choices in every aspect of his life, including use of sexual experience.&quot; Comarr &amp; Vigue.
The ability of a number of opioid agonists and antagonists to affect nicotine-induced 45Ca2(+)-uptake into cultured bovine adrenal medullary cells has been investigated. High (10 microM) concentrations of the opioid agonist bremazocine produced a significant inhibition of nicotine-induced 45Ca2(+)-uptake throughout the 15 min time course examined. The opioid subtype-selectivity of this inhibition was investigated; mu and delta selective agonists produced only minor effects whereas the kappa selective agonist U50-488H and the endogenous opioid peptides dynorphin(1-13) and metorphamide almost abolished nicotine-induced 45Ca2(+)-uptake. The U50-488H inhibition was significant at 10 nM concentrations with an IC50 of approximately 1 microM. U50-488H inhibition could not be reversed or reduced by the opioid antagonists naxolone, diprenophine or Mr2266. Furthermore, Mr2266 and its optical isomer Mr2267 also produced marked inhibition of 45Ca2(+)-uptake. The inhibition was specific to nicotine-induced 45Ca2(+)-uptake in that a similar level of uptake evoked by potassium depolarization was unaffected by high concentrations of U50-488H. These data indicate that opioid inhibition of nicotine-induced 45Ca2(+)-uptake does not involve classical, stereospecific opioid receptors and suggests the involvement of a pharmacologically distinct opioid recognition site. It is speculated that this may be associated with the nicotine receptor-ionophore complex.
Fast atom bombardment (FAB) mass spectrometry and multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) in the B/E linked-field scan mode were used to quantify endogenous beta-endorphin (BE) in individual human pituitary extracts. The experimental protocol includes the addition of a stable isotope-labeled internal standard ((2H4-Ile22)BE1-31, human) to the tissue homogenate before extraction, purification of the native BE by a combination of Sep-Pak chromatography and gradient high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), trypsin digestion to cleave BE into smaller peptides, and separation of the tryptic fragment BE20-24 (NAIIK) by isocratic reversed-phase HPLC. Mass spectrometric quantification is based upon recording either (a) the [M + H]+ ions of NAIIK and its deuterated analog ((2H4)NAIIK), or (b) the transitions ([NAIIK + H](+)----[NAI]+) and [((2H4)NAIIK + H](+)----[(2H4)NAI]+) using the B/E linked-field scan. Linear calibration curves were obtained using these two mass spectrometric techniques from standard solutions containing 1.25-20 micrograms of BE; each standard solution also contained 10 micrograms of (2H4)BE. The amounts (means +/- s.d.) of endogenous BE in five separate human pituitaries were found to be 156 +/- 84 [( M + H]+ method) and 169 +/- 99 pmol mg-1 protein (MRM method).
1. Using grease-gap recordings from the isolated superior cervical ganglion of mouse, rat and guinea-pig, we have compared the depolarization evoked by 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) with that evoked by the selective 5-HT3 receptor agonist 2-methyl-5-HT (2-Me-5-HT). 2. The maximum depolarization induced by 2-Me-5-HT was smaller than that induced by 5-HT in all three species, and particularly in the guinea-pig. 3. The 5-HT2 receptor antagonist ketanserin (1 microM) caused a clear rightward shift of the dose-response curve to 5-HT on the guinea-pig ganglion, but not on the mouse or rat ganglion. Spiperone (0.03 microM) had a quantitatively similar action to ketanserin (0.1 microM) on the 5-HT dose-response curve of the guinea-pig ganglion. Ketanserin had no significant effect on the dose-response curve to 2-Me-5-HT on any of these ganglia. 4. Using 2-Me-5-HT as the agonist, we determined the pA2 values for two 5-HT3 receptor antagonists. The potency of ICS 205-930 varied by approximately 100 fold between the species and that of (+)-tubocurarine varied by over 1000 fold. The differences in the pA2 values of these compounds varied independently among the species. 5. We conclude that 5-HT3 receptors are present on the superior cervical ganglion from the rat, mouse and guinea-pig, but these receptors may be pharmacologically distinct from each other. In addition, the depolarization of the guinea-pig superior cervical ganglion by low concentrations of 5-HT is largely mediated by ketanserin-sensitive receptors.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) and NGF receptors were measured in cortex and hippocampus of rats treated with drugs affecting cholinergic neurotransmission. High (Kd = 0.045 nM) and low (Kd = 21 nM) affinity 125I-NGF binding sites were present in both cortical and hippocampal membranes with hippocampus containing higher numbers of both sites than cortex. Chronic treatment of rats with the muscarinic receptor antagonist scopolamine (5 mg/kg, twice daily) decreased the density of high- and low-affinity sites by 50-90% in cortical and hippocampal membranes. These changes were seen after 7 days, but not 3 days, of scopolamine treatment. Chronic infusion of physostigmine (1 mg/kg/day) using minipumps increased the number of high- and low-affinity sites in cortex 3- and 6-fold, respectively. The changes in receptor-binding parameters induced by physostigmine were transient as they were evident after 3 days of treatment, but returned to control levels after 7 days. NGF content in cortex and hippocampus was reduced by about 50% following 7, but not 3, days of chronic physostigmine infusion. In contrast, scopolamine treatment failed to change NGF levels in the cholinergic neuronal target regions but it decreased NGF content in the septal area. The content of NGF mRNA in the cortex measured by Northern blot analysis failed to change following either scopolamine or physostigmine treatment. The results suggest that the levels of NGF and NGF receptors in the target regions of cholinergic neurons are regulated by the extent of cholinergic neurotransmitter activity.
The effect of a dihydropyridine (DHP) calcium antagonist, PN 200-110, on cocaine reinforcing properties was investigated using conditioned place preference paradigm. PN 200-110 in nonsedative doses (0.62-1.25-2.5 mg/kg SC) was able to inhibit cocaine-(10 mg/kg IP) induced place preference with ED50 1.57 (0.88-2.58). The results suggest a possible use of DHPs in the treatment of cocaine-related disorders.
Hydroxyindole O-methyltransferase (HIOMT)-immunoreactive cells and melatonin synthesis were demonstrated in bovine epithalamus (including the pineal gland) with monoclonal antibodies and cRNA probes to HIOMT. The HIOMT-immunoreactive product was present in the cytoplasm of pinealocytes. All identifiable pinealocytes were clearly labeled in the pineal gland. The expression of the HIOMT gene was first identified in pinealocyte cytoplasm by in-situ hybridization (ISH). The distribution of the hybridization-positive cells in the pineal gland was compatible with that revealed by immunocytochemistry using the monoclonal antibody to HIOMT. In addition, HIOMT transcripts were found in the medial habenular nucleus, and the habenular and posterior commissure; they may correspond to S-antigen-immunoreactive cells demonstrated in the same regions of the hamster and the mouse. In these regions, the hybridization-positive cells did not exhibit HIOMT-immunoreactivity; thus, cells devoid of immunoreactivity may synthesize but rapidly transport the newly synthesized proteins. These results indicate (1) that the conversion of N-acetylserotonin into melatonin takes place in the cytoplasm of pinealocytes, (2) that some epithalamic cells in the habenular area may synthesize melatonin, and (3) that melatonin may act as a chemical messenger in centrally directed processes, as shown by using S-antigen immunocytochemistry.
Immunoreactivity for calretinin, a calcium-binding protein, was studied in neurones in the guinea-pig small intestine. 26 +/- 1% of myenteric neurones and 12 +/- 3% of submucous neurones were immunoreactive for calretinin. All calretinin-immunoreactive neurones were also immunoreactive for choline acetyltransferase and hence are likely to be cholinergic. In the myenteric plexus, two subtypes of Dogiel type-I calretinin-immunoreactive neurones could be distinguished from their projections and neurochemical coding. Some calretinin-immunoreactive myenteric neurones had short projections to the tertiary plexus, and hence are likely to be cholinergic motor neurones to the longitudinal muscle. Some of these cells were also immunoreactive for substance P. The remaining myenteric neurones, immunoreactive for calretinin, enkephalin, neurofilament protein triplet and substance P, are likely to be orad-projecting, cholinergic interneurones. Calretinin immunoreactivity was also found in cholinergic neurones in the submucosa, which project to the submucosal vasculature and mucosal glands, and which are likely to mediate vasodilation. Thus, calretinin immunoreactivity in the guinea-pig small intestine is confined to three functional classes of cholinergic neurones. It is possible, for the first time, to distinguish these classes of cells from other enteric neurones.
The subjects were 20 patients with Parkinson's disease. They were aged 52 to 76 years and the duration of the disease ranged from four to 25 years (mean, 12.5 years). All the patients were receiving levodopa alone or in combination with tricyclic antidepressants, amantadine, bromocriptine, anticholinergic agents, or lisuride. Each patient received 1,000 mg of citicoline intramuscularly daily for 15 days and then 500 mg daily for 15 days. After 30 days of treatment, the scores on the Columbia rating scale improved 7.3%; rigidity was improved 18.8%; times to walk 10 m and turn over were reduced 17.5% and 37.4%; and the handwriting test scores improved 19.7%. No side effects were reported. Four patients with advanced parkinsonian symptoms and psychotic side effects received 2,000 mg of citicoline subcutaneously or intravenously for seven days. No improvements in symptoms or treatment side effects were noted.
Relaxation of stressed collagen gels provides a model system uniquely suited to studying the regulation of cell morphology and biosynthetic function by tissue organization. Stress relaxation results in rapid, synchronous changes in cell morphology without enzymatic or other drug treatments, and makes possible an analysis of the initial cellular events associated with changes in tissue organization. During the first hour after stress relaxation, we observed transient hypercontraction of collagen gels and loss of collagen fibril organization as stress in the system dissipated. Morphological changes in the fibroblasts included retraction of pseudopodia, collapse of cytoplasmic actin filament bundles, and loss of cell surface fibronectin. Accompanying these morphological changes, we observed marked decreases in DNA and protein synthesis, especially of fibronectin and type I procollagens. These results show that changes in tissue organization can exert rapid and profound effects on the morphology and biosynthetic function of cells within the tissue.
We have previously demonstrated that administration of the polyamines putrescine, spermidine, or spermine can prevent neuronal degeneration in rats during naturally occurring cell death or after injurious treatments such as nerve injury or monosodium glutamate neurotoxicity. The present study demonstrates that also in adult gerbils polyamine treatment can protect forebrain neurons from degeneration after ischemia. Neurons in the hippocampus and striatum were rescued from delayed cell death after brief (5 min) global ischemia in gerbils which were treated with daily injections (10 mg/kg) of polyamines. The evidence accrued, so far, indicates that systemic polyamines can protect a wide variety of central and peripheral neurons from natural or induced degeneration.
Ablation of the entorhinal cortex (EC) of rats induces a reorganization of afferents and dendrites in the denervated dentate gyrus (DG). The signal which triggers these events is unknown, but one candidate is the reduction of granule cell firing which follows the EC lesion. Testing this hypothesis requires eliminating activity in the perforant path without destroying the EC. In the present study, we evaluated whether injecting tetrodotoxin (TTX) into the EC could reduce neuronal activity in the DG to the same extent as EC ablation. Using microelectrode recording techniques, we recorded the activity of single cells in the DG before and up to 8 h after TTX injection. Transmission over the perforant path was monitored before and up to 24 h after TTX injections by stimulating the EC and recording evoked responses in the DG. TTX injections into the EC consistently reduced the firing rate of neurons in the DG by about 80%. Neither firing rate nor temporodentate-evoked responses recovered during the observation period. Saline injections did not alter either physiological measure. The results suggest that the postlesion decreases in neuronal activity in the DG reflect lost synaptic drive rather than an effect dependent upon early degenerative events. Because TTX injection reduces postsynaptic activity to the same extent as does a lesion, the technique can be used to determine whether a loss of afferent drive is sufficient to induce the biochemical and morphological sequelae of denervation.
Saposins are sphingolipid activator proteins, four of which are derived from a single precursor, prosaposin, by proteolytic processing. These small heat-stable glycoproteins (12-14 kDa) are required for the lysosomal hydrolysis of a variety of sphingolipids. Characterization of these four activator proteins, two of which were recently discovered, and their importance in human health and disease are reviewed in this article.
The problem of the etiology of Alzheimer's disease has not been solved. But in the past several years there have been significant extensions of our knowledge of the disease and advances in determining the molecular changes underlying the disorder. There is now convincing evidence that the dementia per se is caused by loss of neurons and synapses, particularly in neocortex and hippocampus. The molecular aspects of amyloid and its precursor protein have been defined. The nature of intracellular changes leading to accumulation of the paired helical filament is beginning to be understood. For the first time, putative risk factors can be described in terms of pathogenetic mechanisms. Thus, it may become possible in the not-too-distant future to discover interventions that will slow the progress of this devastating disease.
The effects of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP), substance P (SP), 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), neurotensin (NT) and met-enkephalin (mEnk) on the smooth muscles of the teleost swimbladder were studied in two teleost species, the Atlantic cod (Gadus morhua) and the eel (Anguilla anguilla). The study was made on isolated strip preparations of the muscularis mucosae, using putative transmitters corresponding to the immunoreactive materials that have previously been localized by immunohistochemical methods in nerves or endocrine/paracrine cells of the teleost swimbladder and/or the gastrointestinal canal. VIP was relaxatory on both cod and eel swimbladder smooth muscle, SP and 5-HT were constrictory in both species, and mEnk was excitatory on the eel swimbladder smooth muscle. Clear effects of these agents were usually seen at a concentration ofca. 10 nM in cumulative concentration/effect experiments. NT had no effect in either species. In the eel, the effects on the pneumatic duct were generally greater than on the swimbladder proper. The study indicates that the 5-HT and peptides previously observed by immunohistochemistry have physiological functions in the swimbladder.

A mathematical imaging method for simulating cortical surface potentials was introduced at recent neurosciences meetings [1a], [1b], [2] and was applied to elucidate the neural origins of evoked responses in normal volunteers and certain patient populations. This method consists of the solution of an inward harmonic continuation problem and its effect is to simulate data that has not been attenuated and smeared by the skull. This cortical imaging technique (CIT) is validated by applying it to artificially derived data. Pairs of dipolar sources with different depths and separations are introduced into a spherical conducting medium simulating the head. Scalp potential maps are constructed by interpolating the simulated data between 28 &quot;scalp&quot; electrode positions. Noise is added to the data to approximate the variability in measured potentials that would be observed in practice. CIT is used in each case to construct potential maps on layers concentric to and within the layer representing the scalp. In several instances when the dipole pair is deep and closely spaced, the sources cannot be separated by the scalp topographical maps but are easily separated by the &quot;cortical&quot; topographical maps. CIT is also applied to scalp-recorded potentials evoked by bilateral median nerve stimulation and pattern-reversal visual stimulation.
A dose-dependent (12.5-100 mg/kg) suppression of cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) activity was observed in mice after administration of the benzodiazepine receptor 'inverse agonist' FG 7142 (N-methyl-beta-carboline-3-carboxamide). This compound produces a syndrome resembling stress or anxiety in both animals and man. Addition of FG 7142 (1-1000 nM) to either a 4-hour 51Chromium-release assay or 5-day in vitro CTL generation system did not affect CTL activity. Pretreatment with the benzodiazepine receptor antagonist Ro 15-1788 (10 mg/kg) attenuated FG 7142-induced suppression of CTL activity, but had no effect when administered alone. Time-course studies indicated that FG 7142-induced suppression of CTL activity was long-lasting. The suppression of CTL activity by FG 7142 provides further evidence that the central nervous system pathways subserved by the benzodiazepine/GABA receptor chloride channel complex may play an important role in the modulation of immune function.
In animal models, grafts derived from several different tissues, principally fetal substantia nigra and adrenal medulla from young adults, have been found to be effective in alleviating some of the manifestations of lesions of the substantia nigra. It has been suggested that these grafts function by diffusely secreting dopamine, by exerting trophic effects on the host brain, or by producing a new innervation of the host corpus striatum. Evidence for each of these modes of action is briefly reviewed. Several brain tissue transplantation techniques have been described. Each of these techniques has significant limitations in animal models. The significance of these limitations for human application is described, and possibilities for improving the efficacy of brain tissue transplantation in animal models and for human application are discussed.
Neural transplantation, a mode of cellular replacement, has been used as a therapeutic trial for Parkinson's disease. Studies indicate that tonic release of the metabolites from the graft that can be utilized by the host brain, is likely to be the major mechanism responsible for the therapeutic effect. The use of fetal tissue is complicated by ethical controversy and immunological incompatibility. Autografting adult tissue has not been successful mainly due to poor survival. Genetically engineered cells are promising alternative sources of donor cells. We have investigated the potential of primary skin fibroblasts as donor cells for intracerebral grafting. Primary skin fibroblasts survive in the brain and remain in situ. A number of genes (nerve growth factor, tyrosine hydroxylase, glutamic acid decarboxylase, and choline acetyltransferase) have been successfully introduced and expressed in the primary fibroblasts. The L-dopa-secreting primary fibroblasts exhibited a behavioral effect in a rat model of Parkinson's disease up to 8 weeks after being grafted into denervated striatum. Factors that can maximize gene transfer, transgene expression, and fibroblast survival in the brain make up the future direction of investigation.
The rapid progress in PET technology has created the dilemma of how to compare data from old and new tomographs. We examined cerebral metabolic data from two scanners, with different spatial resolutions and methods of attenuation correction, to see if metabolic values from the lower-resolution tomograph (ECAT II) could be adjusted to make them comparable to data from the higher-resolution scanner (Scanditronix PC1024-7B). Nine subjects were scanned on both tomographs after a single injection of [18F]2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose. Regional and lobar gray matter metabolic rates for glucose were obtained from comparable images from each scanner. Ratios of lobar to global gray matter metabolism also were calculated. Regression coefficients and percent differences were computed to compare ECAT II and PC1024 data. Two-thirds of the region pairs showed significant regressions, although percent differences were quite variable, with measures of glucose utilization ranging from 30 to 120% higher on the PC1024 compared to those from the ECAT II. Comparisons of lobar glucose rates between the two machines were less variable (50 to 80%), and ratios differed by only +/- 5% (except for the temporal ratios). Since there was no simple and consistent relationship between regional metabolic rates on the two tomographs, an overall adjustment of regional ECAT values for comparison to PC1024 values would be impossible. A region-by-region adjustment would be necessary. Lobar ratios are sufficiently similar that direct comparisons might be possible.
Correlation coefficients between pairs of regional metabolic rates have been used to study patterns of functional associations among brain regions in humans and animals. An overview is provided concerning the additional information about brain functioning this type of analysis yields. A computer simulation model is presented for the purpose of giving a partial validation for correlational analysis. The model generates a set of simulated metabolic data upon which correlational analysis is performed. Because the underlying pattern of functional couplings in the model is known, these simulations demonstrate that the correlation coefficient between normalized metabolic rates is proportional to the strength of the functional coupling constant and that correlational analysis yields information on regional involvement in neural systems not evident in the pattern of absolute metabolic values.
On May 1-2, 1989, a PET Data Analysis Working Group convened to consider positron emission tomography (PET) methodology and data analysis. The papers presented and the recommendations of the Group are reviewed. The Group recommended that a standard phantom of the human brain be used by different institutions to examine machine and data reconstruction PET variables. Interinstitutional comparisons could be aided by using a standard three-dimensional coordinate system. Deformations within individual diseased or atypical brains would require nonlinear as well as linear transformations to the standard space, using magnetic resonance images in register with the PET images. Methods for intersubject averaging of pixel-by-pixel or region-of-interest data, as well as appropriate statistical methods, need to be developed. PET data may first be exploratory and hypothesis-generating (with less stringent statistical theory), then later used to test hypotheses (with more stringent statistical criteria). Common databases, obtained by computer simulation models with known inherent structure, or directly by PET measurements on different groups, could be used to compare analytical and statistical methods among institutions.
MS patients and age- and education-matched normal controls were administered several laboratory tests of metamemory and a questionnaire designed to measure subjects' capability to appraise their ability to remember events that might occur in everyday life. On laboratory tasks involving newly acquired information, MS patients with poor recognition memory abilities or poor performance on the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST) exhibited impairments on one test of metamemory; patients with deficits in both recognition and on the WCST showed more extensive impairments in metamemory. In contrast to their performance on tests involving newly acquired information, all groups of MS patients predicted their ability to recognize answers to general information questions that they could not recall as accurately as controls, and, like controls, they also searched their memories longer for answers to items that they believed they would recognize. In general, the results support the hypothesis that both trace-access and inferential mechanisms, which are thought to involve the prefrontal cortex, contribute to metamemory, but the nature of the memory task importantly influences the accuracy of metamemory, as well. Results from the questionnaire indicated that many MS patients with demonstrable memory deficits do not acknowledge their memory difficulties. Hence, patient self-reports about memory are likely to be unreliable sources of information for clinical purposes.
An IBM-compatible computer graphics software program has been developed which simulates pupillary function. A light pen, electronically interfaced with the computer, simulates a pen light and, when it is placed on the computer image of the pupil, causes pupillary constriction; when it is withdrawn, the pupils redilate. A variety of abnormal pupillary responses are depicted. Anatomical diagrams and questions concerning various simulated pupillary conditions further enhances the educational experience. Medical students, residents in ophthalmology and the neurosciences, optometrists, nurses, ophthalmic assistants, and other health care professionals can utilize this program to learn a wide range of pupillary abnormalities in an interactive environment.
A total of 120 patients who met DSM-III criteria for unipolar major depressive episode were equally randomized to fluoxetine a.m. or fluoxetine p.m. treatment groups, such that 30 patients were in each group at each of two sites. Patients received 20 to 80 mg of fluoxetine every day for 5 weeks; the dose was based on clinical response. Highly significant within-treatment improvement was reflected by changes in mean scores on the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (total score and factors), the Raskin Depression Scale, the Covi Anxiety Scale, the Clinical Global Impressions Scale for Severity, and the Clinical Global Impressions Scale for Improvement. No significant differences occurred between the a.m. and p.m. groups for any efficacy variable. Evaluation of adverse events and vital signs indicated no clinically significant differences between the two treatment groups. The data indicate that fluoxetine is equally efficacious and well tolerated regardless of the time of day it is administered and suggest that fluoxetine may be administered at either time of day without affecting clinical course.
The effects of calmodulin (CaM) antagonists (W-7, W-5, trifluoperazine, chlorpromazine, quinacrine, diazepam, propericyazine and carmidazolium) on the sodium and potassium channels were studied on the intracellularly perfused and voltage-clamped giant axon of the squid. It was found that the drugs are more potent blockers of the sodium current than of the potassium current. The drugs also reduce the sodium gating current. The blockage of the sodium and gating current can be explained by assuming that the drugs interact with the sodium gating subunit in one of its closed states. The site of action is probably the intracellular surface of the axolemma where presumably a Ca(2+)-calmodulin complex can be formed.
Forty-six patients with borderline personality disorder with and without major depression and 27 normal volunteers completed the Buss-Durkee Hostility Inventory, a self-rating scale of anger and hostility. The patients with borderline personality had significantly higher scores than the normal volunteers. The scores of the patients with borderline personality disorders were not related to gender, treatment or research setting, the degree of acute distress, or the presence of major depression. These findings suggest that a proneness to anger and hostility are enduring characteristics of borderline personality disorder and that anger and depression may represent independent clinical conditions with independent biological mechanisms regulating these two affective states.
One of the major clinical findings in Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the formation of deposits of beta-amyloid protein in amyloid plaques, derived from the beta-amyloid precursor protein (beta-APP). To determine the possible use of beta-APP as a diagnostic marker for AD in CSF, a monoclonal antibody-based immunoassay specific for this protein was developed. The assay does not differentiate between beta-APP695 and beta-APP751 forms but does preferentially recognize beta-APP751 complexed with a protease. Of the two sets of CSF samples tested, one set, obtained from living patients, gave a slightly lower level of beta-APP in AD and Parkinson's disease patients relative to controls, whereas the other set, composed of postmortem samples, showed no significant differences between the AD and control groups.
We developed a sensitive two-site enzyme immunoassay (EIA) system for acidic fibroblast growth factor (aFGF), using a polyclonal antibody raised in rats. This assay is based on the sandwiching of the antigen between anti-aFGF antibody immunoglobulin G (IgG) coated on plates and biotinylated anti-aFGF antibody IgG; the detection of biotinylated IgG was performed by enzyme reaction of streptavidin-conjugated beta-D-galactosidase (beta-D-galactoside hydrolase; EC 3.2.1.23). Our system was specific for aFGF, because basic fibroblast growth factor, which shares a 55% homology of amino acid sequence with aFGF, hardly cross-reacted at all. The sensitivity of this system (0.2 ng/ml) enabled us to quantify endogenous immunoreactive aFGF in the CNS. Using this two-site EIA system, we examined the levels of aFGF in various regions of rat brain and their developmental changes. At the early stage of neonatal development, i.e., 2 days after birth, all brain regions registered low aFGF levels (less than 10 ng/g tissue). However, at the young adult stage (21- to 49-day-old animals), an extremely high level of aFGF (75-90 ng/g tissue) was found in the ponsmedulla; relatively high levels (30-40 ng/g tissue) were found in the diencephalon and mesencephalon; and comparatively low aFGF levels (5-15 ng/g tissue) were found in various other brain regions such as the frontal cortex, piriform cortex, hippocampus, olfactory bulb, cerebellum, and striatum. This marked change in the regional distribution of aFGF in the rat brain during postnatal development from 2 to 21 days after birth suggests that this factor plays a significant role in the brain during this period.
The dynamics of structural remodelling during growth of synapses was studied in identified living neuromuscular junctions observed three times at four-day intervals in three- to five-week-old mice. Nerve terminals and acetylcholine receptors in pectineus muscle were stained and visualized with fluorescent ligands of tetanus toxin C-fragment and alpha-bungarotoxin, respectively. In most observations, about 2.5% of nerve terminal area was observed without underlying acetylcholine receptor (termed 'preprojection'), and about 0.4% of acetylcholine receptor without overlying nerve terminal ('post-projection'). Neither overall synaptic growth nor prevalence of pre- and postprojections was affected by repeated observation. In sequential observations, about 80% of the preprojection area at one observation had acquired underlying acetylcholine receptor four days later, while 20% retracted or showed no change. Although approximately one-half of postprojections were also precursors of synaptic regions, their absolute contribution to synaptic growth was small, and some had originated from nerve terminal retraction. Eight per cent of the disparities between pre- and postsynaptic components in second or third observations were the result of nerve terminal outgrowth or retraction. In the four-day intervals, there was about 7.5% lengthening but also about 3% shortening of synaptic area. Preprojectional induction of acetylcholine receptor accounted for at least 25% of lengthening, and apparent concurrent growth at ends or sides of branches accounted for most of the rest (although level of resolution limits this conclusion). Only about 10% of lengthening was attributable to central intercalary growth. In summary, the pectineus neuromuscular junction grows mainly by nerve terminal outgrowth giving rise four days later to underlying acetylcholine receptor and by conjoint lengthening of synaptic complexes but with relatively little contribution by initial acetylcholine receptor extension or intercalary growth. Growth of the neuromuscular junction is not monotonic: nerve terminals retract and synaptic branches shorten as net lengthening proceeds. Compared with non-growing adult neuromuscular junctions, nerve terminal preprojections in growing neuromuscular functions are more prevalent and more likely to give rise to new synaptic regions.
In order to assay the extent of ongoing synaptic remodelling in adult mouse neuromuscular junctions, dynamic structural changes of identified neuromuscular junctions were monitored in vivo over periods up to three months. Nerve terminal outgrowths as small as 1 micron were detectable with a new fluorescent tetanus toxin C-fragment stain combined with fluoresceinated alpha-bungarotoxin to stain postsynaptic acetylcholine receptors. With limited illumination, the new stain did not affect miniature endplate potential frequency, nor morphometric parameters of repeatedly observed neuromuscular junctions. At each observation, areas of presynaptic nerve terminal extending beyond underlying acetylcholine receptor ('preprojections'), and areas of acetylcholine receptor without overlying nerve terminal ('postprojections') were measured. Regions of the neuromuscular junction in which nerve terminal-postsynaptic acetylcholine receptor complexes either 'lengthened' or 'shortened' between observations were also measured. The total area of pre- and postprojections (relative to total junctional area) remained the same over three months but most had been replaced; only 20% of preprojections gave rise to lengthenings, the rest retracted or were unchanged. Lengthening and shortening of branches were about 1-2% of junctional area per month. These more permanent changes occurred against a background of ongoing transient nerve terminal outgrowth and retraction (which constituted 80% of all neuromuscular junction shape changes from one observation to the next, compared with 20% for the postsynaptic component). Breaks in the continuity of the underlying acetylcholine receptor were also observed between observations as were instances where acetylcholine receptor continuity was re-established. A newly observed form of plasticity was a shift in position and angle of pre-existing branches. Establishment of new acetylcholine receptor-positive synaptic regions was mostly preceded by nerve terminal outgrowth on the previous observation. In animals in which spontaneous wheel-running increased locomotor activity approximately tenfold over a period of 35 days, the findings were identical to those in unexercised mice. In summary, in the adult neuromuscular junction, the nerve terminal, not the postsynaptic component, is the dynamic entity, continually changing shape on the scale of micrometers, with relatively small permanent changes. These ongoing exploratory excursions may supply the substrate for synaptic plasticity, which would involve regulation of the dynamics or stability of nerve outgrowth.
A programmed investigation unit (PIU) was set up in a regional neuroscience centre. Its effects were assessed by measuring the savings associated with one particular investigation, myelography, which accounted for 50% of admissions to the PIU. Substantial savings appear to be possible, but accounting techniques allow wide variations in the estimated amounts. These benefits have to be measured against improvements which occurred simultaneously on the other wards.
We present a case of adult onset progressive neurodegenerative disease with a selective involvement in the globus pallidus (GP). The main symptom was extreme slowness in motion without rigidity, which was distinct from akinesia of parkinsonism. Dystonic posture developed in neck and fingers and mild rigidospasticity appeared in a later stage. Neuropathological examination shows a selective neuronal loss with gliosis in GP and degeneration of the efferent fibers. Although the subthalamic nucleus is slightly atrophic with minimal gliosis, there is no neuronal loss in the nucleus. The rest of the structures are pathologically insignificant. Because the pathological change is confined to GP neurons and their efferent fibers, we think that the marked slowness in motion and dystonic posture are ascribable to the selective GP lesion. A degenerative neurological disorder preferentially involved in GP was reported as pure pallidal degeneration (PPD). The onset of the PPD was in the first or second decades and the main symptoms were choreoathetosis, torsion dystonia and progressive rigidity. These distinct clinical features seemed to distinguish the present case from the previously described PPD. Therefore, we would like to call our case &quot;adult onset&quot; PPD. Clinicopathological correlation is discussed.
Sera from 54 patients with Guillain-Barr syndrome (GBS), 34 patients with other neurological diseases (OND) and 32 healthy controls were tested for antibodies to total lipid fractions and higher neutral glycolipid fractions isolated from human and dog nerves, purified Forssman glycolipid and a panel of purified neutral glycolipids by both an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and a thin-layer chromatogram (TLC)-overlay technique. IgM and IgG antibodies to total lipid fractions, as well as to galactocerebroside, ceramide dihexoside, ceramide trihexoside, and globoside were not significantly elevated in the sera of GBS patients as compared to controls. High levels of anti-asialo-GM1 IgG antibodies, however, were detected in 6 of 54 (11%) GBS patients and 1 of 30 (3%) OND patients. Intense reactivity with purified Forssman glycolipid and a number of glycolipid antigens in higher neutral glycolipid enriched fractions of human cauda equina and dog sciatic nerves was noted by TLC-immunostaining in many GBS and control sera. Although the levels of anti-Forssman IgM were significantly decreased in GBS sera compared with normal sera (P less than 0.05) and OND sera (P less than 0.02), the levels of anti-Forssman IgG antibodies were not significantly different. With the possible exception of IgG antibodies to asialo-GM1, our results suggest that serum antibodies against Forssman glycolipid and neutral glycolipids are not significantly elevated in GBS patients and, thus, are unlikely to play an important role in the pathogenesis of this disease.
We analyzed neurotransmitter markers in a brain of a very rare case of pathologically confirmed adult-onset pure pallidal degeneration (PPD) as compared with 16 controls. Neurotransmitter concentrations are significantly altered in the globus pallidus (GP), subthalamic nucleus (ST) and the thalamic nuclei. Concentrations of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) in the external segment (GPe) and internal segment (GPi) of GP and ST are decreased to 62, 45 and 55% of the control mean, respectively. Concentrations of glutamic acid are increased in GPi (144%) and ST (134%). Choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activities are increased in GPe (232%), GPi (218%), ST (161%), and ventroanterior (VA, 210%) and ventrolateral nucleus (VL, 193%) of the thalamus. Noradrenaline (NA) concentrations in GPe and GPi are 56 and 43% of the control mean, respectively. Dopaminergic and serotonergic systems show no remarkable change. The grid microdissection analysis demonstrates a patchy GABA distribution in the thalamus of 3 controls, whereas a small GABA-rich area in the ventro-oral nucleus (VO) according to the atlas of Hopf disappears in adult onset PPD. These results strongly suggest that (1) GP GABAergic neurons are selectively degenerated and striatopallidal GABAergic nerve terminals are hypoactive; (2) ChAT activities in GP, ST, VA and VL are increased; (3) the subthalamopallidal glutamatergic system is not hypoactive; (4) activity of the noradrenergic system in GP is decreased; and that (5) VO in the thalamus specifically receives GABAergic nerve terminals from GP in human brain.
We describe a young man with a progressive neurological disorder including myoclonus, mental retardation, muscle weakness and a mitochondrial myopathy (myoclonus epilepsy and ragged red fibres--MERRF). Multiple abnormalities of the mitochondrial respiratory chain in skeletal muscle are shown by direct measurement of the flux through the individual complexes, low-temperature redox spectroscopy and decreased immunodetectable subunits of complexes I and IV by immunoblotting. No abnormality of mitochondrial DNA was found. This is the first report of combined defects of complexes I, III and IV as a cause of this clinical syndrome. However, we propose that the occurrence of multiple respiratory chain defects may be more common than previously recognised and that this particular combination of defects, involving complexes I, III and IV, may be the predominant biochemical abnormality in MERRF.
1. Subjects without any previous experience in a tactile psychophysics task participated in a study of tactile letter recognition employing active and passive touch. In the active task, subjects reached through a curtain and examined embossed letters with horizontal, unidirectional finger strokes. In the passive task, subjects sat with their arms and hands immobilized while a rotating drum stimulator pressed the embossed letters onto the right index finger. The stimulus conditions in the passive task were identical to those used in neurophysiological experiments with monkeys. 2. A survey of 40 naive subjects who were not screened in any way showed a wide range of performance levels. There was no difference between the subjects in the active and passive tasks, either in overall mean percent correct scores, which were 49.0 and 50.7%, respectively or in the percent correct scores for individual letters whose product-moment correlation coefficient was 0.94. The active and passive groups, which contained 25 and 15 members, respectively, had no members in common. 3. Videotapes of the finger movements of eight subjects in the active task showed a characteristic V-shaped velocity profile (velocity vs. lateral position) starting at approximately 100 mm/s at the left-hand edge of the plate containing the embossed letter, decelerating to a minimum when the center of the finger was directly over the letter, and then accelerating away from the letter. The average minimum scanning velocity was 17 mm/s. 4. Scanning velocity had no significant effect on performance in the passive task between 20 and 40 mm/s. An increase to 80 mm/s produced a 16% decline in percent correct identifications. 5. Learning effects were evident across sessions even though subjects were given no feedback or training. The increase in mean percent correct judgments averaged 4% per session, which lasted for approximately 1 h. 6. Data from 64 subjects were pooled for detailed comparison of identification patterns in active and passive touch. The results were analyzed and found to be consistent with the hypothesis that the identification and confusion probabilities are identical in the two modes. We conclude that there is no difference between active and passive touch in form recognition when the stimulus pattern is smaller than a finger pad. 7. Data from all experiments were pooled to produce a single confusion matrix with 324 presentations per letter. The majority of erroneous responses are grouped in a small number of confusion pairs and the majority of those confusion pairs are strongly asymmetric. The probable neural mechanisms of some confusion patterns are discussed.
1. We investigate the discharge patterns of chopper units in the anteroventral cochlear nucleus (AVCN) by developing an equivalent cylinder compartmental model of AVCN stellate cells, which are the sources of the chopper response pattern. The model consists of a passive dendritic tree connected to somatic and axonal compartments with voltage-sensitive channels. Synaptic inputs to the model are simulated auditory nerve fiber responses to best-frequency tones. 2. We adjust the anatomic and electrical parameters of the model to agree with available intracellular data from stellate cells in the AVCN of the mouse and the cat and compare the response of the model to injected current with responses recorded in vitro. The model shows approximately linear current-voltage characteristics for small hyperpolarizing currents. The model's input resistance and the time course of its response to hyperpolarizing current applied at the soma are comparable with those measured from stellate cells in vitro. In response to sustained depolarizing current, the model fires repetitively with nearly perfect regularity, a property also observed in vitro. 3. Auditory nerve inputs to the cell are modeled as deadtime-modified Poisson processes with a multiexponential adaptation in the Poisson rate. We are able to adjust the number, rate, and location of excitatory and inhibitory inputs to the model and succeed in simulating chopper response patterns seen in vivo. 4. Chopper units exhibit a variety of regularity and adaptation patterns in response to tone stimuli. Physiological data from brain slice experiments and experiments in vivo imply that this heterogeneity is primarily due to differences in input configurations. By systematically varying the number and position of excitatory and inhibitory inputs, we can simulate a range of chopper response patterns. 5. We quantify the regularity of the model's response using the coefficient of variation (CV) of the interspike interval. We find that the CV decreases, i.e., the regularity increases, as the number of converging inputs or their distance from the soma increases. The regularity of the output is more sensitive to the number of converging inputs than to their location on the dendritic tree. The statistics of the first spike latency (FSL) are also sensitive to the configuration of excitatory inputs. The mean and minimum FSL are more sensitive to the electrotonic distance of the inputs from the soma than to the number of inputs, whereas the standard deviation of the FSL is highly dependent on the number of converging inputs and is nearly independent of their location.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Biochemical analysis has shown the pond snail Lymnaea stagnalis to contain 2 main classes of Phe-Met-Arg-Phe-NH2 (FMRFamide)-like neuropeptides: the tetrapeptides FMRFamide and Phe-Leu-Arg-Phe-NH2 (FLRFamide), and the heptapeptides Gly-Asp-Pro-Phe-Leu-Arg-Phe-NH2 (GDP-FLRFamide) and Ser-Asp-Pro-Phe-Leu-Arg-Phe-NH2 (SDPFFRFamide). By genomic mapping and DNA sequencing, we show here that the GDP/SDPFLRFamide coding region lies 3' to the FMRFamide coding region. The absence of an initiating start methionine and the presence of good-concensus 3' and 5' splice sites suggests that the GDP/SDPFLRFamide coding region makes up 1 exon of a larger gene. In addition to 7 copies of GDPFLRFamide and 6 copies of SDPFLRFamide, the exon encoding the heptapeptides also encodes 3 novel peptides, Glu-Phe-Phe-Pro-Leu-NH2 (EFFPLamide), Ser-Asp-Pro-Tyr-Leu-Phe-Arg-NH2 (SDPYLFRamide), and Ser-Asp-Pro-Phe-Phe-Arg-Phe-NH2 (SDPFFRFamide). In contrast to the tetrapeptide FMRFamide precursor protein, the GDP/SDPFLRFamide peptides are encoded contiguously, being separated only by single basic amino acids.
A family of genes has been identified that encodes subunits of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) and is expressed in the nervous system. Functional neuronal nAChRs can be expressed in Xenopus oocytes by injection of RNA encoding 1 of 2 different beta-subunits (beta 2, beta 4) in pairwise combination with RNA encoding 1 of 3 different alpha-subunits (alpha 2, alpha 3, alpha 4). We examined the sensitivity of these 6 different alpha- beta-subunit combinations to the nicotinic agonists ACh, nicotine, cytisine, and 1,1-dimethyl-4-phenylpiperazinium (DMPP). Each subunit combination displayed a distinct pattern of sensitivity to these 4 agonists. The alpha 2 beta 2 combination was 5-fold more sensitive to nicotine than to acetylcholine, while the alpha 3 beta 2 combination was 17-fold less sensitive to nicotine than to ACh, and the alpha 3 beta 4 combination was equally sensitive to both nicotine and ACh. nAChRs composed of alpha 2, alpha 3, or alpha 4 in combination with beta 2 were 14-100-fold less sensitive to cytisine than to ACh. In contrast, nAChRs composed of alpha 2, alpha 3, or alpha 4 in combination with beta 4 were 3-17-fold more sensitive to cytisine than to ACh. The alpha 2 beta 2, alpha 3 beta 2, and alpha 3 beta 4 combinations were each equally sensitive to DMPP and ACh, while the alpha 2 beta 4, alpha 4 beta 2, and alpha 4 beta 4 combinations were 4-24-fold less sensitive to DMPP than to ACh. We also demonstrated that these differences are neither a consequence of variation in the relative amounts of RNA injected nor an artifact of oocyte expression. The oocyte system can accurately express ligand-gated ion channels because mouse muscle nAChRs expressed in oocytes display pharmacological properties similar to those reported for these receptors expressed on BC3H-1 cells. We conclude that both the alpha- and the beta-subunits contribute to the pharmacological characteristics of neuronal nAChRs.
Transcripts encoded by 2 different rat genomic clones, rg13 and rg100, appear to be typical brain-specific polyA- RNAs, as defined by previous criteria (rare, polysomal, and postnatally expressed from single-copy genes). However, we have found by using a sensitive nuclease protection assay that low levels of these transcripts (10% and 3%, respectively) are detected in polyA+ RNA. To determine if rg transcripts that fractionate as polyA- could have resulted from nicking of polyA+ RNA, we assessed the integrity of 2 known polyA+ RNAs, those of tyrosine hydroxylase, a 2-kilobase (kb) mRNA, and sodium channel, a 9.5-kb RNA. Using RNA prepared by several different procedures, including LiCl-urea and guanidine thiocyanate followed by CsCl centrifugation, the shorter message fractionated as polyA+ after 2 cycles over oligodeoxythymidine (oligo-dT) cellulose, whereas the majority of the longer sodium channel RNA fractionated as polyA, as assayed by nuclease protection using probes from the 5' end of the 2 genes. However, on Northern blots, the same RNA preparations showed an intact 9.5-kb sodium channel band only in polyA+ RNA, suggesting that the polyA- RNAs were randomly cleaved, resulting in a smear of sizes that could not be detected as a discrete band. These data imply that long messages may be nicked during standard isolation procedures and that this would not be detected by Northern blot analysis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A highly active fraction that was mitogenic for astroblasts but which contained no amino acids was identified during the purification of peptides from chick embryo brains. This material was purified by ultracentrifugation, ultrafiltration through Diaflo PM-30 and YM-2 membranes and retention on Diaflo YC-05, followed by ion exchange chromatography and reversed phase high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) on a C18 Deltapak column. On thin layer chromatography and HPLC the material co-chromatographed with authentic commercially-obtained GMP. Its ultraviolet absorption spectrum was also identical with that of GMP. 1H and 31P nuclear magnetic resonance spectra of the isolated material were identical with those of GMP. The close match between the fast atom bombardment (FAB) mass spectra of the unknown material and authentic GMP indicated that the unknown material was GMP of molecular weight 363 Da. Authentic, commercial GMP stimulated the growth of cultured chick astroblasts in the same dose-dependent manner as the material from chick embryo brains; maximal stimulation was at 50 microM. Guanosine, GDP, and GTP also stimulated cell proliferation. The nucleotides were equally as effective as guanosine. 5'-Guanylyl imidodiphosphate, guanosine 5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate), and guanosine 5'-N-(3-thiotriphosphate), guanine nucleotides which are relatively resistant to enzymatic hydrolysis, were also mitogenic, indicating that the nucleotides do not need to be degraded to nucleosides to be active and that they probably act extracellularly. Guanine nucleosides and nucleotides promoted astroblast growth when other growth factors were removed from the culture medium. The mitogenic effects of guanosine and its nucleotides were inhibited in a dose-dependent fashion by micromolar concentrations of theophylline, a characteristic of phenomena mediated by purinergic receptors. Guanosine and its nucleotides are released in micromolar concentrations by hypoxic or dying cells. Under these circumstances these compounds may stimulate division of adjacent cells in vivo.
The properties of [3H]clonazepam, [3H]diazepam and [3H]zolpidem (N,N,6[trimethyl-2-(4-methyl-phenyl)imidazo[1,2-a]pyridine-3-acetamide hemitratrate) binding to synaptic membranes of cerebellum, cortex, olfactory bulb, striatum and spinal cord of rat were compared to the binding properties of [3H]flunitrazepam, [3H]flumazenil and [3H]midazolam. In the cerebellar, cortical and olfactory bulb membranes, the density of high-affinity binding sites of all these tritiated benzodiazepine (BZ) ligands is almost identical. In contrast, in the striatum, the density of [3H]clonazepam and [3H]zolpidem binding sites is approximately 60 and 30%, respectively, of the density of [3H]diazepam, [3H]flunitrazepam or [3H]flumazenil sites. In spinal cord membranes, the number of high-affinity binding sites of [3H]clonazepam and [3H]zolpidem is less than 20% of the number of binding sites for [3H]diazepam, [3H]flunitrazepam, [3H]flumazenil and [3H]midazolam. Moreover, the displacement of [3H]flunitrazepam from spinal cord membranes by clonazepam and zolpidem was characterized by high IC50 values and Hill slopes significantly less than 1. Because [3H]BZ ligand binding in the spinal cord is enhanced by gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), these data suggest that different regions of the rat central nervous system may contain different GABA-BZ receptor subtypes. The different pharmacological properties of clonazepam, diazepam and zolpidem (i.e., regarding their ability to enhance bicuculline seizure threshold, to decrease locomotor activity, to induce ataxia or to elicit anticonflict action) further support the concept that in the rat central nervous system preferential occupancy of heterogeneous GABAA receptors by these drugs can be related to their effects on behavior.
Glutamate stimulated the efflux of dopamine from slices of rat striatum superfused with a Krebs' bicarbonate buffer containing a physiological concentration of Mg++ (1.2 mM). This effect was observed in the presence of high concentrations of glutamate (3-10 mM), but not at lower concentrations (0.01-1 mM). The response was not accompanied by increased lactate dehydrogenase activity, a measure of glutamate neurotoxicity. At 10 mM, glutamate increased dopamine efflux by more than 9-fold. This was reduced to about 34% of the control response by either the competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (100 microM) or the noncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist MK 801 [(+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenso[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10- imine hydrogen maleate] (1-10 microM), but was unaffected by a kainate/quisqualate receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (10-100 microM). Glutamate-stimulated dopamine efflux also was unaffected by tetrodotoxin (0.5 microM), withdrawal of extracellular Ca++ [and addition of 1 mM ethylene glycol bis(beta-aminoethyl ether)-N,N'-tetraacetic acid] or systemic administration of reserpine (5 mg/kg, 24 hr before the experiment), an inhibitor of the vesicular storage of dopamine. In contrast, nomifensine (10 microM), an inhibitor of high-affinity dopamine transport, reduced glutamate-induced dopamine efflux to 15% of the control response. Moreover, the response to glutamate was blocked by deleting NaCl from the medium. Collectively, these results suggest that, at high concentrations and in the presence of Mg++, glutamate can stimulate the release of dopamine by a mechanism that does not use Ca(++)-dependent exocytosis but instead involves a reversal of the dopamine transport system.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)








Mouse pro-ACTH/endorphin (or POMC) contains in its sequence each of the four possible pairs of basic amino acids recognized as potential cleavage sites in the production of bioactive peptides from higher mol wt precursors: KR (lysine-arginine), RR, RK, and KK. To examine the structural requirements for processing and routing in one region of pro-ACTH/endorphin, a reporter mutation was introduced into the mouse pro-ACTH/endorphin cDNA; a methionine residue was mutated to an isoleucine residue to allow biosynthetic double labeling with [3H]Ile and [35S]Met. Analysis of stable cell lines expressing the reporter cDNA indicated that this mutation did not affect processing or secretion. Therefore, additional mutations were introduced on the reporter background to investigate important structural features of the precursor. First, the tripeptide signal for N-linked glycosylation in the N-terminal glycopeptide (Asn65,Ser66,Ser67) was disrupted by the conservative substitution of asparagine65 with a glutamine residue. Secondly, O-glycosylation was prevented by substitution of threonine45 with an alanine residue. Finally, lysine50 was mutated to an arginine residue, transforming the RK doublet preceding the gamma 3MSH sequence into an RR doublet. The results show that the enzymatic machinery of AtT-20 cells fails to cleave efficiently at the Arg-Lys (RK) site even after elimination of any possible structural hindrance by carbohydrate side-chains. Elimination of O-linked oligosaccharides to the N-terminal side of gamma 3MSH did not allow cleavage at the RK site, and elimination of N-linked oligosaccharides did not alter the processing and routing of pro-ACTH/endorphin in AtT-20 cells. However, mutation of the RK sequence to RR allowed extensive cleavage regardless of the occurrence of O- or N-glycosylation.
Isothiocyanate derivatives of (-)-cocaine were prepared and tested for inhibitory potency at the cocaine receptor in rat striatal membranes. Coincubation with m-isothiocyanatobenzoylecgonine methyl ester (m-ISOCOC), p-isothiocyanatobenzoylecgonine methyl ester (p-ISOCOC), and 3 beta-(4-isothiocyanatophenyl)tropane-2-carboxylic acid methyl ester (ISOWIN) resulted in inhibition of [3H]WIN 35,428 binding, but the compounds were about 10-fold weaker than (-)-cocaine. However, p-ISOCOC was approximately 3-fold more potent than metaphit, an isothiocyanate derivative of phencyclidine. p-ISOCOC was equipotent at the serotonin transporter but was much less potent at the norepinephrine transporter and was inactive at the D2 dopamine receptor at 1000 microM concentration. The IC50 value for m-ISOCOC and p-ISOCOC varied with tissue concentration, suggesting irreversible inhibition of binding. Preincubation with m-ISOCOC and p-ISOCOC resulted in inhibition of [3H]WIN 35,428 binding that could not be removed by washing of the membranes; in contrast, preincubation with (-)-cocaine caused inhibition that was readily removed by washing. Preincubation with 1 microM concentrations of p-ISOCOC resulted in a large reduction in Bmax of the high affinity binding site for [3H]WIN 35,428. Preincubation with 100 microM p-ISOCOC eliminated the high affinity site and apparently reduced the affinity at the low affinity site. Coincubation of 10 microM p-ISOCOC with 100 microM cocaine prevented the total loss of [3H]WIN 35,428 binding. The uptake of [3H]dopamine was inhibited by p-ISOCOC with an IC50 comparable to that of cocaine. Additionally, preincubation of rat striatal synaptosomes with 10 microM p-ISOCOC reduced the Vmax of [3H]dopamine uptake after washing. These data suggest that m-ISOCOC and p-ISOCOC are useful irreversible acylators of (-)-cocaine binding sites at the dopamine transporter.
Based on their relative affinities for cholecystokinin octapeptide (26-33) (CCK-8), cholecystokinin tetrapeptide (30-33) (CCK-4), desulfated CCK-8, and gastrin, cholecystokinin (CCK) receptors have been classified as CCK-A (alimentary) and CCK-B (brain). Selective nonpeptide antagonists of CCK-A and CCK-B receptors, as well as highly selective CCK-A and CCK-B peptide agonists, have been described. We report here the characterization of two novel CCK-4-based peptides, A-71623 and A-70874. In radioligand binding assays, the IC50 values for A-71623 and A-70874 were 3.7 and 4.9 nM in guinea pig pancreas (CCK-A) and 4500 and 710 nM in cerebral cortex (CCK-B), respectively. Both were agonists in stimulating pancreatic amylase release, and their stimulatory effects were potently inhibited by the CCK-A antagonist L-364,718. A-71623 was a full agonist and A-70874 was a partial agonist (approximately 80%) in stimulating phosphoinositide breakdown in pancreas. Both peptides also were potent agonists in stimulating CCK-A receptors in the ileum. They were, however, weak and behaved as partial agonists in calcium studies in NCI-H345 cells, which possess CCK-B/gastrin receptors. In guinea pig gastric glands, the affinities of A-71623 and A-70874 for the CCK-B/gastrin receptor were 11 and 1.6 microM, respectively. These results demonstrate that A-71623 and A-70874 are potent and selective agonists at CCK-A receptors. The preferential interaction of these novel CCK-4 analogs with CCK-A receptors is in contrast to other CCK-4-based peptides, which are primarily selective for CCK-B receptors. In addition, A-71623 and A-70874 are the first two examples of potent CCK-A agonists that do not contain a tyrosine residue whose sulfation is required for potent CCK-A agonist activity of larger peptides.
To determine the functional relevance of the age-related neurochemical changes that occur in brain serotonin systems during aging, we measured the effects of the serotonin receptor agonist meta-chlorophenylpiperazine (MCPP) on behavior and on regional cerebral metabolic rates for glucose (rCMRglc) in awake rats. rCMRglc was determined in 74 regions of Fischer-344 rats aged 3, 12 and 24 months, at 15 and 90 min after MCPP 2.5 mg/kg IP, using the quantitative, autoradiographic [14C]2-deoxy-D-glucose technique. The time-course of motor performance following MCPP was assessed with a rotating rod. MCPP impaired motor performance in all ages maximally at 15-30 min. Three-month-old rats recovered completely within 60 min, whereas 12-month-old animals exhibited partial recovery and 24-month-old rats did not recover by 120 min. At 15 min after MCPP, rCMRglc was reduced in 51 of the 74 studied regions (overall decrease, 20%) of 3-month-old rats, in 21 regions (13% decrease) of 12-month-old rats and in 14 regions (2% decrease) of 24-month-old animals. Similar MCPP brain concentrations were achieved at 15 min in rats of all ages. The results suggest that the functional integrity of serotonergic transmission is reduced in aged rats and that the dysregulation is presynaptic.
Studies of the GABA-synthetic enzyme glutamate decarboxylase (glutamic acid decarboxylase; GAD; E.C.4.1.1.15) began in 1951 with the work of Roberts and his colleagues. Since then, many investigators have demonstrated the structural and functional heterogeneity of brain GAD. At least part of this heterogeneity derives from the existence of two GAD genes.


A combination of gene transfer and intracerebral grafting may provide a powerful technique for examining the role of discrete substances in the development or functioning of the brain. In the present study, primary fibroblasts obtained from a skin biopsy from inbred Fischer rats were used as donor cells for genetic modification and grafting. When grafted to the striatum of Fischer rats with a prior 6-hydroxydopamine lesion, primary fibroblasts containing a transgene for either tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) or beta-galactosidase survived for 10 weeks and continued to express the transgene. TH synthesized by the implanted fibroblasts appeared to convert tyrosine to L-dopa actively, as observed in vitro, and to affect the host brain, as assessed through a behavioral measurement. These results suggest that primary fibroblasts genetically altered to express TH have the capacity to deliver L-dopa locally to the striatum in quantities sufficient to compensate partially for the loss of intrinsic striatal dopaminergic input.
Among the various types of membrane molecules involved in cell-cell interactions in the nervous system, we have focused in this review upon membrane proteins belonging to the immunoglobulin superfamily (IgSF). IgSF molecules are distinctive in that: (1) a large percentage of known neural adhesion molecules belongs to the IgSF; (2) they are homologous in structure (Ig domain), yet exhibit large variation of function in cell-cell interactions. The structure of IgSF molecules is briefly summarized in Section II, and each member of the IgSF which has been found in the nervous system is reviewed in Section III. In Section IV, we have discussed possible properties of yet-unknown nervous system IgSF molecules, on the assumption that nervous system IgSF molecules thus far discovered comprise only a small portion of those existing. Discussion is based upon an analogy with the immune system and upon knowledge of cell-cell interactions in the development of the nervous system. Our principal aims in this review are to summarize knowledge of neural IgSF molecules and to discuss the possibility that some IgSF molecules may encode in their structures instructions for recognizing, or for being recognized by, target neural cells. Further growth of knowledge of IgSF molecules may yield insights into the patterns of cell-cell interactions underlying the formation of neuronal circuits during development.
The relationship between the visual cortex and the striatum (ST) of the cat is poorly understood. The present experiments were an attempt to determine if regions along the lateral suprasylvian cortex (LS), known to send dense visual projections to the superior colliculus (SC), also project to the striatum and, if so, to determine whether corticostriatal and corticotectal axons arise from the same neurons. Injections of the anterograde tracer, biocytin, into the posterior portion of the lateral suprasylvian cortex resulted in dense label in both ST and SC. In ST, labeled fibers and terminals were found predominantly in the caudal part of the head of the ipsilateral caudate nucleus and the caudal portion of the ipsilateral putamen. These injections also resulted in label in the superficial and deep laminae of SC. After paired injections of retrogradely transported fluorescent dyes (dextran tetramethylrhodamine and dextran fluorescein) into ST and SC, numerous labeled LS neurons were observed in layer V and modest numbers in layer III: the corticostriatal neurons were found in layers III and V whereas corticotectal neurons were seen only in layer V. Although labeled neurons from each injection were intermingled in layer V, very few of them were double-labeled. These data suggest that while ST and SC receive substantial visual inputs from the same cortical area, the nature of the information they receive may be quite different.
We have previously reported that plasma growth hormone (GH) and prolactin levels were markedly decreased in rats two weeks following a single dose (100 micrograms/kg, SC) of soman. We have now conducted additional experiments to attempt to determine whether neuroendocrine responses to physiological or pharmacological challenge are altered in rat survivors of soman exposure, and whether immune function, which can be affected by circulating hormones, is altered in the soman-exposed rats. In the present study, basal prolactin levels were not significantly lower in the soman-treated rats although prolactin increases in response to physiological or pharmacological challenge were attenuated. Also, basal growth hormone levels in soman survivors were similar to control levels in 2 of 3 experiments in the present report. In the third experiment, growth hormone levels were lower in soman-treated animals. Endocrine abnormalities appeared to be related to the severity of soman insult as assessed by changes in body weight following exposure. Both ACTH and prolactin responses to stress were impaired in a severely affected subpopulation of soman survivors. The thymus, an important immune organ, was decreased in weight in severely affected soman survivors, but other tests of immune function did not show differences between control and soman-exposed rats.
Nitroglycerin (GTN) is widely used as a safe and effective dilator in patients with ischemic heart disease, and it is said that it dilates the cerebral vessels. So the authors are now using GTN for the prevention of cerebral vasospasm. 125 patients classified as Fisher's Group 2, 3 or 4 were operated on within 72 hours after subarachnoid hemorrhage due to ruptured cerebral aneurysm. 58 patients (GTN group) were treated with continuous intravenous infusions of GTN (0.5-1.0 micrograms/kg/min) for about 2 weeks after their operation, and another 67 patients (control group) were not administered GTN. The frequency of occurrence of symptomatic vasospasm decreased in each GTN group of Fisher's classification, and the severity of angiographic vasospasm also tended to decrease. Especially in patients with severe subarachnoid hemorrhage classified as CT group 3 or 4, symptomatic vasospasm occurred in 11 patients (30.6%) in the GTN group, but in 26 patients (63.4%) in the control group. Regarding the outcome, 10 patients (17.2%) in the GTN group showed poor results or died, as opposed to 22 patients (32.9%) in the control group. This difference was significant. Moreover the GTN group had no cases of mortality due to cerebral vasospasm. These results indicate that GTN can be effective for prevention of cerebral vasospasm and improve the prognosis in patients with serious subarachnoid hemorrhage due to a ruptured aneurysm.
The type of hypoxic-ischemic brain damage is determined by the distribution of lesions, which has different mechanism in each. Neuroimaging is important for detection of the lesions, but morphological changes appear 12 hours after hypoxic episodes even in neuropathology. Hemodynamic, biochemical and neurophysiological changes during the acute stage are also valuable for earlier diagnosis of the lesions. Doppler sonography and near-infrared spectroscopy, reflected intracranial hemodynamics and metabolism. In our clinicopathological studies, the infants with pontosubicular necrosis showed significantly high incidence in severe hypocarbia, which may be associated with hypoperfusion. Thus, the monitoring of brain hemodynamics and metabolism may be important for early treatment as well as prevention of the brain damage.

The effects of sustained stress on body temperature were investigated in rats implanted with mini-transmitters that permitted remote measurement of body temperature. Temperature was first monitored during control conditions. Following the control period, rats were either shaped to avoid/escape signalled around-the-clock intermittent footshock (controllable stress) or yoked to the controlling rats such that the controlling rat and the yoked rat received shock of the same duration, but only the controlling rat could terminate shock by pulling a ceiling chain. Under control conditions, rats demonstrated regular rhythms in body temperature which averaged 1 degree higher during the 12-h dark cycle than the light cycle. Stress disrupted the rhythm and markedly decreased the night-day difference in temperature, especially in the yoked rats in which almost no difference between light and dark cycle temperature was seen. The disruption was most marked for the first days of stress. A regular temperature rhythm was reestablished following about 5 days of stress although the stress condition continued. Leverpressing for food was also affected by the stress conditions with both stress groups leverpressing less than controls and the uncontrollable stress group pressing less than the controllable stress group. These data offer additional evidence of the increased pathophysiological effects of uncontrollable as compared to controllable stress.
Rats were concurrently exposed to a sustained avoidance/escape (SAE) procedure and a procedure for assessing demand for food. In the sustained SAE procedure, signalled shock avoidance/escape trials were presented at varying intervals averaging five minutes. The shock could be avoided by pulling on a ceiling chain early in the trial, or escaped by pulling on the chain later in the trial. Demand curves for food were generated by requiring 1, 5, 10, 20, 40, 80, 160, and 320 lever presses for each food pellet on successive days. The demand curve procedure was introduced after either brief (3 or 5 days) or extended (21 or 23 days) exposure to SAE. Following brief exposure to SAE, SAE animals showed decreased food intake and less elasticity of demand relative to non-SAE controls. Following extended exposure to SAE, these effects were diminished or absent.
Techniques of investigation of acute stroke syndromes have progressed rapidly in recent years, outpacing developments in effective stroke treatment. The clinician is thus faced with a variety of tests, each with different cost implications and each altering management to a greater or lesser extent. This review will concentrate on the basic tests which should be performed for all strokes (full blood count, ESR, biochemical screen, blood glucose, cholesterol, syphilis serology, chest X-ray and electrocardiogram). Additional tests may be required in selected cases: CT scan to diagnose 'non-stroke' lesions, to exclude cerebral haemorrhage if anti-haemostatic therapy is planned, and to detect strokes which may require emergency intervention (such as cerebellar stroke with hydrocephalus); echocardiography to detect cardiac sources of emboli; and in a few cases lumbar puncture and specialized haematological tests. Other tests, which are currently research tools, may be suitable for widespread use in the future including NMR, SPECT and PET scanning.
The existence and neuroanatomical locations of separate extrastriate visual pathways for object recognition and spatial localization were investigated in healthy young men. Regional cerebral blood flow was measured by positron emission tomography and bolus injections of H2(15)O, while subjects performed face matching, dot-location matching, or sensorimotor control tasks. Both visual matching tasks activated lateral occipital cortex. Face discrimination alone activated a region of occipitotemporal cortex that was anterior and inferior to the occipital area activated by both tasks. The spatial location task alone activated a region of lateral superior parietal cortex. Perisylvian and anterior temporal cortices were not activated by either task. These results demonstrate the existence of three functionally dissociable regions of human visual extrastriate cortex. The ventral and dorsal locations of the regions specialized for object recognition and spatial localization, respectively, suggest some homology between human and nonhuman primate extrastriate cortex, with displacement in human brain, possibly related to the evolution of phylogenetically newer cortical areas.
The N2 and N400 components of the event-related brain potential were compared along several dimensions. In one task, subjects discriminated on the basis of size, and in another task, subjects discriminated on the basis of semantic category. In one set of conditions stimuli deviated infrequently along one stimulus dimension (either in size or semantic category) and in another set of conditions stimuli deviated infrequently along two stimulus dimensions (both size and semantic category). When subjects discriminated on the basis of size, infrequent deviation in the size of the stimuli was associated with a negativity that peaked around 320 ms (N2). When subjects discriminated on the basis of semantic category, infrequent deviation in the semantic category of the stimuli was associated with a negativity that peaked around 400 ms (N400). N2 and N400 were found to be generally alike in scalp distribution, hemispheric asymmetry, and sensitivity to stimulus probability. N2 was not elicited when size changes were task irrelevant and N400 was not elicited when changes in semantic category were task irrelevant.
The organophosphate metrifonate has been demonstrated to produce a hypolipidemic effect in the Syrian golden hamster as demonstrated by turbidimetric analysis of lipoprotein precipitation by heparin. A sex-related difference in sensitivity to the hypolipidemia may exist, although metrifonate appears to be an effective serum cholinesterase inhibitor in both sexes. Therefore, metrifonate may be a useful probe in the investigation of organophosphate-induced hypolipidemia.
Intracellular recordings were obtained from identified dopamine (DA) neurons in rat midbrain slices maintained in vitro. DA neuron membranes exhibited pronounced instantaneous and time-dependent anomalous rectification that showed evidence of maximal activation at average membrane potentials of -63 and -78 mV, respectively. Action potentials were followed by prominent afterhyperpolarizations (AHP) that consisted of two components. The fast component showed evidence of inactivation at -63 mV independent of the initial membrane potential, whereas the longer-duration, later component increased in amplitude at hyperpolarized potentials. Unlike DA neurons recorded in vivo, there was no evidence of spike frequency adaptation or summation of AHPs with prolonged depolarization-induced spike trains. Spontaneous spike discharge occurred via an endogenous pacemaker potential that was dependent on both TTX-sensitive and cobalt-sensitive processes. Hyperpolarizing prepulses could activate rebound pacemaker discharge, but this rebound activity was progressively blocked with larger-amplitude hyperpolarizing prepulses. DA neurons recorded in the anesthetized animal, freely moving animal, and in vitro preparations have been shown to exist in two states of activity: 1) spontaneously discharging action potentials or 2) hyperpolarized, quiescent, and nonfiring. Furthermore, although it is rare to find DA neurons in the untreated animal in transitional states of activity, quiescent neurons can be activated by stimuli that place a demand on the DA system. The evidence presented here is consistent with the hypothesis that the special combination of membrane properties of DA neurons contribute to the segregation of their activity into active or inactive states.
One hundred consecutive patients presenting with symptoms and signs of neurocysticercosis, confirmed by neuroimaging techniques, were randomly assigned to treatment with either praziquantel 50 mg/kg/d for 15 d or albendazole 15 mg/kg/d for 30 d. All patients were treated in addition with steroids for 45 d. Follow-up was for 90 d for response to treatment and at least 1 year for recurrence. Although similar numbers of patients showed no improvement in neuroimaging criteria at 3 months, the response to albendazole was more pronounced with larger numbers showing marked improvement or disappearance of lesions. Resolution of the presenting neurological signs and symptoms was also more frequent in the albendazole group. Electroencephalographic changes also became normal. The use of steroid cover eliminated the headache frequently present during the first few days of treatment and permitted severe cases to be treated. Both albendazole and praziquantel appeared to be effective at the doses used, with albendazole showing a slightly better overall response.

A recombinant baculovirus system has been used to express the amino terminal half of the murine coronavirus (JHMV) peplomer glycoprotein in insect cells. The expressed polypeptide is glycosylated and is recognized by a set of monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) specific for JHMV S protein. Three of these mAbs have a very high neutralizing activity for JHMV but not for other MHV strains. These results indicate that JHMV-specific, major neutralizing epitopes reside in the amino terminal S1 subunit of the peplomer glycoprotein.
Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) is an inhibitory neurotransmitter used by many neurons of the mammalian retina. To identify the synaptic targets of these cells, we undertook an immunohistochemical study with a monoclonal antibody that recognizes the GABAA receptors (62-3G1, generously donated by A. de Blas). This antibody labels the somata of at least one group of amacrine cells in the inner nuclear layer. It also labels two groups of somata in the ganglion cell layer; one small and the other much larger. The small cells are likely to be displaced amacrine cells based on their size, although some could be gamma ganglion cells. The much larger receptor-positive cells are clearly ganglion cells, based both on their size and the antibody labeling of the initial portion of their axon. In the peripheral retina, the size of these large somata suggests that many are beta ganglion cells. However, at any point across the retina the density of these cells never exceeded 50% of the density of beta cells as a whole. The antibody also labels a dense plexus of processes that extends throughout the inner plexiform layer (IPL), with a marked concentration in the inner third of the layer. This is the portion of the IPL in which the rod bipolar cells terminate. It is difficult to recognize processes of individual cells in the IPL, so retinae were dissociated. The rod bipolar cells were identified by protein kinase C immunoreactivity (Negishi et al., 1988; Karschin &amp; Wsle, 1990). They were not labeled by the GABAA receptor antibody. This is surprising in light of tight-seal, whole cell voltage-clamp recordings that have shown that the rod bipolars express functional GABAA receptors. One possible explanation is that the antibody recognizes only a subset of the GABAA receptors.
The risks of persons with controlled seizure disorders for traffic safety are reviewed. Previous studies provide insufficient and inaccurate data on this subject. Moreover, the advances in diagnosis and treatment of epilepsy and the improved safety and technology of automobiles and roads have made previous studies out of date and inapplicable to current circumstances. A number of vital questions concerning the determination of safe prognosis remain unanswered. Studies to address these questions and ways of improving future decision making are suggested.
We have compared the ability of phencyclidine (PCP)-like or sigma ligands to induce psychomotor effects in primates. In squirrel monkeys, administration of MK-801 (0.001-0.1 mg/kg), PCP (0.03-0.3 mg/kg), (+)-SKF10047 (0.001-3.0 mg/kg) or (-)-SKF10047 (0.1-10 mg/kg) induced ataxia, head weaving and bradykinesia. In contrast, treatment with the selective sigma ligand (+)-pentazocine using doses up to 20 mg/kg failed to induce any overt behaviours. The order of potency for induction of these behaviours was: MK-801 greater than PCP greater than (+)-SKF10047 greater than (-)-SKF10047 much greater than (+)-pentazocine. In rhesus monkeys treatment with MK-801 (0.01-0.04 mg/kg), PCP (0.05-0.2 mg/kg), (+)-SKF10047 (0.75-3.0 mg/kg) or (+)-pentazocine (1-10 mg/kg), disrupted performance of a spatial delayed response task. The potency to induce cognitive disruption was positively correlated with affinity for [3H]MK-801, but not [3H](+)-SKF10047, binding sites in vitro. These findings indicate that the psychomotor and cognitive effects of PCP-like and sigma ligands in primates are mediated through interactions at NMDA, not sigma, receptors.
IP3 activates intracellular calcium release by binding to an intracellular ligand gated calcium permeable channel which has been shown to be regulated by protein kinase A phosphorylation. Two consensus sequences for protein kinase A phosphorylation are predicted by the recently isolated cDNA of the mouse and rat. In the present study we have isolated and sequenced the two peptides in the rat IP3 receptor which are phosphorylated by protein kinase A and demonstrate protein kinase A phosphorylation on S-1755 and S-1589.


The roles of neuropeptide Y (NPY) and noradrenaline (NA) in sympathetic neurotransmission to large arteries and veins were studied in vitro using the thoracic portions of the aorta and inferior vena cava from guinea-pigs. Both vessels are densely innervated by axons containing NA and NPY. Repetitive transmural stimulation at 2-30 Hz produced contractions of the aorta, which were abolished by prazosin. NPY did not have significant postsynaptic or presynaptic effects on vascular tone of the aorta. Transmural stimulation of the vena cava produced long-lasting contractions which were enhanced by alpha- and beta-adrenoceptor antagonists, and were blocked by guanethidine. Precontracted venae cavae responded to sympathetic stimulation with beta-adrenoceptor-mediated relaxation, followed by contraction. alpha-Adrenoceptor blockade delayed the onset of neurogenic contractions. NPY was a potent contractile agent of the vena cava (EC50 approximately 1.5 x 10(-8) M). A high concentration (3 x 10(-6) M) of NPY, or the specific NPY Y1 receptor agonist, [Leu31, Pro34]NPY, caused parallel, and reversible, desensitization of contractions produced by sympathetic nerve stimulation, and by low concentrations of exogenous NPY. This provides good evidence that NPY is the mediator of the non-adrenergic sympathetic contractions of the vena cava. Furthermore, these results demonstrate that differential location or coupling of postsynaptic receptors for NA and NPY in the aorta and vena cava, leads to differential participation by these substances in sympathetic vasomotor responses. This is likely to be related to the different functions of these two parts of the systemic circulation.
Radioligand binding studies indicate that p-isothiocyanato-t-butylbicycloorthobenzoate (p-NCS-TBOB) specifically acylates GABA-gated chloride channels. Preincubation of synaptoneurosomes with p-NCS-TBOB followed by washing resulted in a concentration dependent (63-500 nM) inhibition of both muscimol-stimulated chloride uptake and [355]t-butylbicyclophosphorothionate (TBPS) binding. The extent of acylation (assessed by inhibition of [35S]TBPS binding) was highly correlated (r = 0.89; p less than 0.001) with the inhibition of muscimol-stimulated Cl- uptake. Neither basal Cl- uptake nor [3H]muscimol binding to GABAA receptors were affected by p-NCS-TBOB. Preincubation with the nonacylating 'cage' convulsant t-butylbicycloorthobenzoate (500 nM) followed by washing had no effect on either muscimol-stimulated Cl- uptake or [35S]TBPS binding. These findings indicate that p-NCS-TBOB interferes with the efficacy of muscimol promoted channel openings, but does not affect the recognition qualities of GABAA receptors. p-NCS-TBOB should prove useful in electrophysiological and biochemical studies examining the properties of GABA-gated Cl- channels.
The production of basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) in cultured rat brain microglia was investigated. Rat brain microglia were found to express mRNA of bFGF in analysis by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) technique. Basic FGF was also detected in microglial cell lysate by Western blot analysis. These results indicate that microglia produce bFGF and possibly contribute to the regulation of neuronal development and regeneration.
In order to explore the structural basis of GABAA receptor function, we have expressed murine alpha 1, beta 1, and gamma 2 subunit cDNAs by transient transfection of human 293 cells. Expression of GABAA receptors was measured by ligand binding assay and by electrophysiological analysis. As in other species, expression of the alpha 1 and beta 1 subunits produced a receptor that was insensitive to modulation by benzodiazepines as measured by electrophysiological analysis; however, a small number of flunitrazepam binding sites were detectable. The coexpression of the gamma 2 subunit was found to be essential for this modulation, and also resulted in a dramatic (14-fold) increase in the number of binding sites for flunitrazepam. On the coexpression of all 3 subunit cDNAs, a receptor was produced that exhibited a similar number of binding sites for flunitrazepam and muscimol.

Cerebral blood flow was measured using [14C]iodoantipyrine quantitative autoradiography in rats which had previously undergone unilateral ibotenate-induced nucleus basalis lesion followed by intracortical implantation of foetal basal forebrain cell suspensions. Transplants had no effect upon host cortical blood flow, although within the transplant itself, blood flow was significantly lower than the contralateral site. Both the transplant and host cortex exhibited a similar degree of hyperaemia in response to hypercapnia.
Retinoic acid promotes the neuronal survival properties of the class 1 heparin-binding growth factor (HBGF-1) on 8-day-old chick ciliary and sensory neurones. It has little or no effect on the survival promoting properties of class 2 heparin-binding growth factor (HBGF-2) on these cell types. Nerve growth factor (NGF) promoted survival of sympathetic and sensory neurones, and was unaffected at any concentration of retinoic acid. The mitogenic effect of both HBGF-1 and HBGF-2 was unaltered at any concentration of retinoic acid. It is suggested that naturally occurring gradients of retinoic acid, for example, as occur in the developing limb bud, could have a role in the development of normal innervation patterns through selective interaction with neurotrophic molecules.
Excitatory amino acids (EAAs) are likely to play a key role in sensory transmission in the spinal cord. In the present study, the microiontophoresis technique was used to investigate the effects of L-glutamate (GLUT), N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA), and quisqualate (QUIS), as well as an NMDA receptor antagonist, AP-7, on the discharges evoked in nociceptive primate spinothalamic tract (STT) neurons by mechanical stimulation of the skin. Responses to innocuous brushing of the skin were facilitated by GLUT and NMDA (and in some neurons by QUIS) and sometimes reduced by AP-7. GLUT also facilitated the responses to noxious mechanical stimuli. The results are consistent with anatomical evidence for the presence of synapses that contain EAAs on primate STT cells and with the proposal that the co-release of EAAs and neuropeptides may contribute to hyperalgesia.
Calcium/calmodulin (Ca2+/CaM)-dependent protein phosphorylation was evaluated in a rabbit spinal cord ischemia model. One hour of ischemia reduced particulate (5% of control) and cytosolic (35% of control) Ca2+/CaM-dependent protein kinase activity significantly (p less than 0.01). In vitro phosphorylation of endogenous proteins by endogenous Ca2+/CaM-dependent protein kinase showed that phosphorylation of 14 particulate and 7 cytosolic proteins was stimulated in the presence of Ca2+/CaM in control tissue. However, after 1 hour of ischemia, Ca2+/CaM-dependent protein phosphorylation was virtually absent in the particulate fraction and significantly reduced in the cytosol. When equal amounts of control and ischemic tissue samples were combined and assayed, Ca2+/CaM-dependent protein kinase activity was 43% of control in particulate and 70% of control in cytosolic fractions. This suggests that reduced Ca2+/CaM-dependent protein phosphorylation is probably not due to the presence of an inhibitory activity in ischemic tissue. These results show that the Ca2+/CaM-dependent protein phosphorylation system is impaired after ischemia durations which cause irreversible damage. These altered phosphorylation reactions may play critical roles in mediating irreversible neurologic injury.
Recently, we demonstrated a survival-promoting effect of nerve growth factor (NGF) on cultured hippocampus-projecting neurons from developing septum/diagonal band region using fluorescent latex microspheres as a retrograde neuronal marker (Arimatsu et al., 1989). In the present study, we characterized these projection neurons by combining the retrograde cell labeling and histochemical stainings for acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity and NGF receptor-, choline acetyltransferase- (ChAT-) and gamma-aminobutyric acid- (GABA-) immunoreactivities. The surviving microsphere-labeled neurons were, for the most part, immunoreactive for NGF receptor in the culture. A great majority (about 90%) of the microsphere-labeled neurons showed strong AChE activity and ChAT-immunoreactivity. The number of strongly AChE-positive neurons and that of ChAT-immunoreactive neurons in the culture supplemented with NGF was much greater with than without exogenous NGF. In addition, a major part (about 70%) of the microsphere-labeled neurons exhibited GABA-immunoreactivity in the presence of NGF. The number was also much greater than that without NGF. A considerable portion of cultured septal cholinergic neurons were shown to express GABA-immunoreactivity by a two-color immunofluorescence labeling experiment for ChAT and GABA. These findings are consistent with the assumption that NGF plays an important role in the development and organization of the cholinergic and GABAergic septohippocampal systems by supporting the neuronal survival, and raise a possibility that cholinergic and GABAergic fractions of the septohippocampal neurons may be developmentally correlated.
In the present study we employed light microscopic immunocytochemical techniques in order to investigate the temporal response of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) and nerve growth factor receptor (NGFr) within hypoglossal motoneurons following unilateral transection or crushing of the XII nerve or after intraneural injections of ricin into the nerve. In control rats (i.e., sham operated) virtually all the motoneurons of the XII nucleus displayed intense immunolabeling for ChAT and were devoid of NGFr immunoreactivity. As early as 3 days post-operative the intensity and the number of ChAT-labeled neurons were reduced on the axotomized side compared to the non-lesioned side. This decrease was maximal approximately two weeks post-operative when virtually no ChAT-labeled cells were present on the lesioned side. In contrast, no loss of hypoglossal neurons was found using Nissl stains. This absence of ChAT immunolabeling persisted for several days, yet by 30 days many of the motoneurons had begun to re-express the enzyme. In contrast to the decrease in ChAT immunoreactivity, transection of the XII nerve also resulted in the expression of NGFr immunoreactivity within the lesioned motoneurons. This response was detected as early as one day post-operatively and continued throughout all time points thus far examined including times after many of the motoneurons had begun to re-express ChAT. Crushing of the XII nerve effected the expression of ChAT and NGFr in a manner comparable to, yet less intense than, that observed following transection. Ricin injected directly into the XII nerve resulted in the loss of hypoglossal motoneurons as demonstrated both in immunohistochemical and Nissl-stained tissue preparations. The cell loss was readily apparent 3 days post-operatively, and ChAT immunoreactivity permanently disappeared. NGFr immunolabeling was seen only in scattered surviving neurons but not in ricin poisoned cells. The possible mechanisms underlying the differential expression of ChAT and NGFr are discussed.
The synapsins are a family of closely related phosphoproteins (termed synapsins Ia, Ib, IIa and IIb) associated with synaptic vesicles and implicated in the short-term regulation of neurotransmitter release from nerve endings. During development, expression of the synapsins correlates temporally with synapse formation, but there has been no direct evidence that they are involved in synaptogenesis. Here we report that overexpression of synapsin IIb in the neuroblastoma x glioma hybrid clonal cell line NG108-15 leads, during cell differentiation, to marked increases in the number of neuritic varicosities and in the numbers of small clear vesicles and large dense core vesicles per varicosity, as well as to the appearance of synapse-like cell-cell contacts. Thus, synapsin IIb may be involved in the regulation of synapse formation and, as a result, in long-term neuronal signalling.
The usefulness of high-frequency stimulation of the ventral intermediate nucleus (Vim) as the first neurosurgical procedure in disabling tremor was assessed in 26 patients with Parkinson's disease and 6 with essential tremor. 7 of these patients had already undergone thalamotomy contralateral to the stimulated side, and 11 others had bilateral Vim stimulation at the same time. Chronic stimulating electrodes connected to a pulse generator were implanted in the Vim. Tremor amplitude at rest, during posture holding, and during action and intention manoeuvres was assessed by means of accelerometry. Of the 43 thalami stimulated, 27 showed complete relief from tremor and 11 major improvement (88%). The improvement was maintained for up to 29 months (mean follow-up 13 [SD 9] months). Adverse effects were mild and could be eradicated by reduction or cessation of stimulation. This reversibility and adaptability, allowing control of side-effects, make thalamic stimulation preferable to thalamotomy, especially when treatment of both sides of the brain is needed.
Calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaM kinase II) is composed of two distinct but related subunits, alpha and beta, in various ratios. To investigate the physiological significance of this variation, we have studied the effect of autophosphorylation of CaM kinase II isoforms purified from forebrain and cerebellum on the activity, and analyzed their endogenous protein substrates. Autophosphorylation of two kinases resulted in the appearance of Ca2(+)-independent activity and the substrate specificity of the Ca2(+)-independent form differed from that of the Ca2(+)-dependent, non-phosphorylated form of the enzyme. Increased phosphorylation of two kinases resulted in a decrease in the enzyme activity. The decrease in the enzyme activity of forebrain CaM kinase II was larger than that of cerebellar kinase. Phosphorylated forms of two kinases were less stable than the non-phosphorylated forms, and the phosphorylated form of forebrain kinase was less stable than that of cerebellar kinase. Many endogenous protein substrates of respective CaM kinase II were found in both soluble and particulate fractions of forebrain and cerebellum using gel electrophoresis. Although the major protein substrates of CaM kinase II were almost the same in forebrain and cerebellum, some of the endogenous protein substrates of respective CaM kinase II were found to be different in both soluble and particulate fractions of forebrain and cerebellum.
Calsequestrin, a muscle calcium binding protein, has been shown to bind the extracellular matrix protein laminin and evidence has been presented that CAL (initially called aspartactin) is on the cell surface, consistent with a role as a laminin receptor (1). In this report, we present evidence that does not support a laminin receptor function for CAL. We found that CAL immunoreactivity could not be detected on live cultured chick myotubes unless they were permeabilized with detergent. Furthermore, polyclonal anti-CAL antibodies did not perturb myotube adhesion to laminin or the rate of myoblast fusion on laminin. Expression of the CAL cDNA in a melanoma cell line that was poorly adherent to laminin did not increase adhesion to laminin. In these cells, CAL could not be detected on the cell surface, and the majority of CAL was found to be secreted into the media.

We have shown previously that K+ stimulation of dissociated cell cultures of fetal rat brain results in a graded release of angiotensin II (ANG II) that is dependent on the availability of extracellular Ca2+. In this study, using dissociated cell cultures of fetal rat hypothalamus, thalamus, septum, and midbrain (HTSM), we further examined the role of calcium channels on ANG II release using specific channel blockers (cadmium, omega-conotoxin, and nitrendipine) and a calcium ionophore (A23187). Levels of ANG II release were quantitated by radioimmunoassay and HPLC. For control levels of ANG II release, cells were incubated in a stock buffer containing 89 mM choline chloride/58 mM KCl/2 mM CaCl2. Pretreatment of the cells with either 100 microM Cd2+ (to block N-, L-, and T-type calcium channels), 100 nM omega-conotoxin (to block N- and L-type calcium channels), or 500 nM nitrendipine (to block L-type calcium channels) decreased ANG II release by approximately 71%, 71% and 22%, respectively, when compared to control levels. In contrast, pretreatment of the cells with 1.6 microM A23187 (a calcium ionophore) increased ANG II release by approximately 90% over control levels. These findings suggest that angiotensin release is dependent on the intracellular entry of Ca2+ ions through primarily N-type channels, and to a lesser extent, L-type channels.



Lacunar ischaemic stroke syndromes are clinically, pathophysiologically, and prognostically distinguishable from cortical ischaemic stroke syndromes. Could cerebrovascular transient ischaemic attacks (TIAs) share similar heterogeneity? 130 patients with TIAs were prospectively studied, 71 of whom underwent carotid angiography. Symptoms were associated with a 50% or greater stenosis of the ipsilateral internal carotid artery in 36 (67%) of 54 patients with presumed cortical TIAs, but in only 1 (6%) of 17 patients with presumed lacunar TIAs (p less than 0.0001). These findings support the view that cortical TIAs are associated with ipsilateral extracranial internal carotid artery atheromatous disease, whereas patients with lacunar TIAs may have absent or insignificant large-vessel disease, and probable intracranial small-vessel disease. Accurate distinction between lacunar and cortical events may have implications for investigation and treatment of patients with TIAs.
The time course and the relation to dose of regional cerebral metabolic rates for glucose (rCMRglc) were measured in awake male Fischer-344 rats after administration of 1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane (DOI), a selective serotonergic 5-HT2 agonist. rCMRglc was determined, using the quantitative autoradiographic [14C]2-deoxyglucose technique, in 75 brain regions at 5, 15, 30, 60 and 90 min after administration of DOI 10 mg/kg i.p., and at 15 min after DOI 2.5, 25 or 50 mg/kg i.p. In non-hippocampal regions, peak effects were observed at 15-30 min, when rCMRglc in 12% of the regions was significantly different from control. In hippocampal regions rCMRglc effects peaked at 30 min (average rCMRglc reduction 21%) and were sustained for at least 60 min. Higher doses of DOI reduced rCMRglc in most prosencephalic regions (25 mg/kg, 35% of all regions studied; 50 mg/kg, 32%), where 5-HT2 receptors are present in high density. These data suggest that selective 5-HT2 receptor stimulation leads to rCMRglc reduction in areas with high densities of 5-HT2 receptors.
The terminal fields of primary afferent fibers from tail muscle spindle primary endings were mapped within cat sacrocaudal spinal cord (S3-Ca7), using intra-axonal recording and horseradish peroxidase staining techniques. We sought to determine the ipsilateral and contralateral projection patterns and to relate these to the fibers' muscles of origin. Fifty-three group Ia fibers were successfully stained. Segmental collaterals originated from either the ascending or descending branch within the dorsal columns. Collaterals coursed rostromedially within the dorsal columns and traversed the medial aspect of the dorsal horn. Ipsilateral terminations were similar for all fibers. Within the ventral horn, boutons were consistently observed in the medial or central portions of lamina VII. In lamina VIII, a variable number of boutons was seen on fine branches emerging from larger fibers coursing ventrally. Clusters of terminals were plentiful in the regions of motoneurons, i.e., lamina IX and the nucleus commissuralis. Terminals were found in the adjacent white matter. In addition to ipsilateral terminations, some group Ia fibers (20 of 53) had collateral branches that crossed ventrally to the central canal, terminating within the midline ventral gray commissure and/or the contralateral ventral horn. Crossed projections always originated in medial (dorsal or ventral), but not lateral, muscles of the tail. These data suggest that ipsilateral projections of group Ia fibers make connections on sacrocaudal motoneurons, on neurons mediating segmental reflex functions and on neurons conveying ascending information. It is speculated that crossed and uncrossed connections between group Ia fibers from medial muscles and bilateral dendritic trees of motoneurons subserve synchronized co-contraction of synergistic muscles located on the two sides of the body, such as with dorsal or ventral flexion of the tail. Group Ia projections from lateral muscles, that are entirely ipsilateral, would be involved with lateral movements of the tail.
The pharmacological mechanisms underlying the hypolocomotion induced by intraperitoneal (i.p.) and intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injections of cholecystokinin octapeptide sulphated (CCK) in the mouse were examined using selective CCKA and CCKB receptor antagonists. Locomotor activity was measured in photocell cages. CCK (10 micrograms/kg i.p.) significantly reduced activity in mice tested in the afternoon but not in the morning, indicating a circadian variation in the effect of the peptide. The hypolocomotion induced by i.p. injection of 10 micrograms/kg CCK and i.c.v. injection of 3.5 micrograms CCK was reversed by the selective CCKA antagonist devazepide, but not by the selective CCKB antagonist L-365,260. This suggests that CCK-induced hypolocomotion is mediated by CCKA receptors. Larger doses of CCK were required to induce hypolomotion when injected i.c.v. (3.5 micrograms per mouse) than when given i.p. (10 micrograms/kg i.e. 0.2 microgram per mouse). Furthermore the latency to onset of the hypolocomotion after i.c.v. injection of CCK was longer than after i.p. injection of CCK. These data suggest that the sedative action of i.c.v. CCK may be due to leakage of the peptide from the brain and subsequent activation of peripheral CCKA receptors. However a role for CCKA receptors in the CNS in mediating hypolocomotion induced by i.c.v. injection of CCK cannot be ruled out on the basis of the present data.
The effects of nicotine on gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and glutamate mechanisms were studied in several rat brain regions both in vivo and in vitro. In vivo acute intermittent injections of nicotine decrease GABA utilization in the hypothalamus and glutamate levels within the nucleus caudatus and the subcortical limbic forebrain (mainly tuberculum olfactorium and nucleus accumbens). Glutamic acid decarboxylase activity was slightly increased in several regions, when the rats were treated with a single convulsant dose of nicotine and killed at the moment of the convulsions but it was not affected by a single injection nor by intermittent acute administration of non-convulsant doses of nicotine. In vitro nicotine elicited release of L-[3H]glutamate from synaptosomal preparations obtained from the frontoparietal cortex, nucleus caudatus and hypothalamus. The effect was dose-dependent and it was not blocked by mecamylamine. It was also Ca2+ independent. The possibilities are discussed that the decreased GABA utilization in the hypothalamus may be related to certain neuroendocrine actions of nicotine and that the nicotine-induced glutamate release might be involved in some of the physiological and toxicological effects of nicotine.
Satellite cell activity was examined in the stretch-enlarge anterior latissimus dorsi muscle (ALD) of the adult quail. Thirty-seven birds had a weight equal to 10% of their body mass attached to one wing while the contralateral wing served as an intra-animal control. At various time intervals after application of the wing weight (from 1 to 30 days), the birds were injected with tritiated thymidine and killed 1 h later. Stretched muscle length was greater by day 1 and mass by day 3 when compared with the contralateral muscle. Satellite cells actively synthesizing DNA were quantitated in fiber segments of the control and stretched ALD. A minimum of 1,500 muscle nuclei (satellite cell nuclei and myonuclei) were counted in each muscle. Labeling in stretched muscle was expressed by the percent labeled nuclei per total nuclei counted. Satellite cell labeling was initiated by day 1, peaked between days 3 and 7, and was not statistically different from control values at day 30. These results demonstrate that satellite cells are induced to enter the cell cycle in the stretch-enlarged ALD muscle from the adult quail, and the peak of proliferative activity is within the first week of stretch.
Acoustic neuromas occur either as sporadic solitary tumors in the general population or as inherited bilateral tumors typically in patients with neurofibromatosis type 2. Loss of heterozygosity for markers on the long arm of chromosome 22 has been reported in both instances, and neurofibromatosis type 2 has been genetically linked to a marker on the long arm of this autosome, suggesting that a unique locus on chromosome 22 is implicated in tumorigenesis of both sporadic and inherited acoustic neuromas. To determine whether the locus for neurofibromatosis type 2 might also be responsible for tumorigenesis of those schwannomas distinct from acoustic neuromas in people without neurofibromatosis type 2, we studied the DNA content of three sporadic spinal schwannomas. In all three, we found loss of heterozygosity for at least three markers on the long arm of chromosome 22, indicating a partial or total monosomy 22 in the tumor. Our results suggest that a locus on chromosome 22 is responsible for tumorigenesis in schwann cells regardless of their location in the central nervous system, and that some other mechanism (genetic or nongenetic) might account for the relative high proportion of schwannomas developing from the eighth cranial nerve.
A high-affinity muscarinic receptor antagonist, 123IQNB (3-quinuclidinyl-4-iodobenzilate labeled with iodine 123), was used with single photon emission computed tomography to image muscarinic acetylcholine receptors in 14 patients with dementia and in 11 healthy controls. High-resolution single photon emission computed tomographic scanning was performed 21 hours after the intravenous administration of approximately 5 mCi of IQNB. In normal subjects, the images of retained ligand showed a consistent regional pattern that correlated with postmortem studies of the relative distribution of muscarinic receptors in the normal human brain, having high radioactivity counts in the basal ganglia, occipital cortex, and insular cortex, low counts in the thalamus, and virtually no counts in the cerebellum. Eight of 12 patients with a clinical diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease had obvious focal cortical defects in either frontal or posterior temporal cortex. Both patients with a clinical diagnosis of Pick's disease had obvious frontal and anterior temporal defects. A region of interest statistical analysis of relative regional activity revealed a significant reduction bilaterally in the posterior temporal cortex of the patients with Alzheimer's disease compared with controls. This study demonstrates the practicability of acetylcholine receptor imaging with 123IQNB and single photon emission computed tomography. The data suggest that focal abnormalities in muscarinic binding in vivo may characterize some patients with Alzheimer's disease and Pick's disease, but further studies are needed to address questions about partial volume artifacts and receptor quantification.
Three pairs of twins, each with proved monozygosity, were shown to be discordant for dementia of the Alzheimer's type and to have remained discordant for periods of 8 to 11 years. Dementia of the Alzheimer's type was demonstrated by history; serial clinical examinations; serial measurements of cerebral glucose utilization using positron emission tomography and of cerebral ventricular volumes and of rates of change of volumes using quantitative computed tomography; and by serial neuropsychological tests. The results of each of these measures showed no evidence of clinical abnormality in any unaffected twin. DNA markers from the proximal long arm of chromosome 21 did not distinguish between the affected and the unaffected member of any pair of identical twins. Family pedigrees were negative for Alzheimer's disease. The results suggest that environmental or other nongenetic factors contribute to Alzheimer's disease in discordant monozygotic twins, or that some cases arise by a postzygotic somatic mutation.
The role of the ventrolateral thalamic nucleus (VL) has been analyzed in the phase of motor recovery that takes place when the execution of a previously learned movement has been perturbed by damage to another brain area. Cats were trained to perform a reaching movement toward a moving target-spot; they underwent bilateral brain lesions after performance had stabilized. A VL lesion induced a very transient increase of reaction time. The lesion of the main thalamic relay of the visual extrageniculate pathway (LP) severely disrupted accuracy and reaction time but was followed by full recovery. When both lesions were performed together, the deficits were similar to those induced by LP lesion alone, although they were more pronounced. However, the functional compensation was incomplete, and furthermore, the recovery of accuracy crucially depended on regular testing. These results support the involvement of VL in motor learning or relearning.


In order to measure unitary properties of receptor channels at the postsynaptic site, the noise within the decay phases of inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) and of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-dependent excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) in rat hippocampal neurons was studied by nonstationary fluctuation analysis. Least squares scaling of the mean current was used to circumvent the wide variation in amplitude of postsynaptic currents. The variance of fluctuations around the expected current was analyzed to calculate single channel conductance, and fluctuation kinetics were studied with power spectra. The single channel conductance underlying the IPSC was measured as 14 pS, whereas that underlying the EPSC was 42 pS. Openings of the EPSC channel could also be resolved directly in low-noise whole-cell recordings, allowing verification of the accuracy of the fluctuation analysis. The results are the first measurements of the properties of single postsynaptic channels activated during synaptic currents, and suggest that the technique can be widely applicable in investigations of synaptic mechanism and plasticity.
The 5-HT-induced shape change and subsequent aggregation of platelets provides a functional assay for 5-HT2 receptors. In the present study we describe a method to increase aggregometer sensitivity by digital conversion of the voltage produced by changes in light transmittance through a platelet suspension, thereby allowing accurate analyses of the primary shape-change response. The pharmacology of 5-HT-induced shape change was then compared with that of [125I]-iodoLSD binding in human platelets. 5-HT caused a dose-dependent change in platelet shape (maximum response 5 x 10(-6) M, EC50 10(-6) M). Furthermore, there was a significant correlation across a selection of drugs between IC50 values for inhibition of 5-HT-induced shape change and for inhibition of platelet binding of the 5-HT2 receptor ligand [125I]-iodoLSD. These results support the hypothesis that 5-HT-induced shape change and [125I]-iodoLSD binding in human platelets are mediated through the same receptor, and validate the methods of data acquisition described.
Body schema disturbances were studied in a 62-yr-old woman with Alzheimer's disease. She was severely impaired in verbal and nonverbal tasks requiring her to localize body parts (on her own body, the examiner's body or a doll's body) even though she correctly named the same parts when pointed at by the examiner. Pointing responses were misdirected mainly to parts contiguous with the target area and, to a lesser extent, to functionally equivalent body parts. We also found that the patient was able to define body part names functionally but not spatially. In another series of tasks, and in contrast to the above results, performances were normal when small objects, attached to the patient's body, served as pointing targets. Furthermore, on subsequent testing she pointed correctly at the remembered position of these objects. The fact that the same point in 'body space' is localized correctly when it corresponds to an external object and erroneously when it corresponds to a body part contradicts the idea of the body schema as a unitary function. Learning the position of objects on the body surface requires access to some form of body-reference system on which this information can be mapped. We argue that such a system can be available in autotopagnosia and is independent from the visuospatial representations of the body structure that are postulated to be damaged or inaccessible in this syndrome. An integrated account of the present results and of those reported by other authors suggests that multiple levels of representation (e.g., sensorimotor, visuospatial, semantic) are involved in the organization of body knowledge.
Membrane properties of rat magnocellular neuroendocrine cells (MNCs) were examined during intracellular recordings in vivo. Current-clamp experiments revealed sustained outward rectification positive to -55 mV and transient outward rectification of depolarizing responses elicited from negative holding potentials. Trains of impulses were associated with a progressive increase of spike duration. Such features, which were not observed in neighboring non-neuroendocrine cells, are similar to those of MNCs in slices or explants of rat hypothalamus. In contrast, however, cells recorded in vivo were characterized by intense synaptic inhibition and a lower specific impedance than commonly observed from MNCs impaled in vitro.
We examined the effect of elevating intracellular calcium ([Ca2+]i) on responses to iontophoretically applied N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA), and quisqualate in CA1 neurons of the hippocampal slice. Topical application of calcimycin (A23187), a calcium ionophore, potentiated responses to NMDA but not to quisqualate. This potentiation was prevented by loading cells with the calcium chelator, BAPTA, suggesting that the action of calcimycin on NMDA receptors was mediated by an elevation of [Ca2+]i in the recorded cell. The potentiation was also recorded in voltage-clamped and in cesium-loaded cells, suggesting that it was not mediated by non-specific changes in voltage or input resistance of the cell that may have resulted from the rise in [Ca2+]i. We propose that intracellular calcium plays a crucial role in regulating the activity of the NMDA subtype of L-glutamate receptor.
In the precuing paradigm, two successive visual signals were presented to trained monkeys. The first one, the preparatory signal, provided complete, partial or no prior information about parameters, such as direction and extent of the forthcoming wrist movement. After a delay, the illumination of a second visual signal, the response signal, called for execution of the movement and indicated the target. Signal-locked neuronal activity changes, i.e. those which occurred time-locked to the signal onset, were recorded in the premotor cortex and the primary motor cortex of the monkey and classified as selective or non-selective. Selective neurons were defined as those responding to particular information, for instance information about movement direction, provided by the signal, while non-selective neurons responded to all signals irrespective of any contained information. Clear latency differences according to both the selectivity of the neuronal response and the area in which the neuron was recorded could be discerned. The mean latency of non-selective activity changes was significantly shorter than that of selective activity changes. Furthermore, the mean latency of premotor cortical responses was significantly shorter than that of primary motor cortical responses. The data indicate the existence of distinct levels of signal processing from the very general to the highly specific.
This study examined the possible involvement of amino acid release from ventral hippocampus in the establishment and maintenance of kindling in rats. Release of amino acids from ventral hippocampus was measured by microdialysis coupled with high-performance liquid chromatography. Samples were obtained by microdialysis perfusion of freely moving animals receiving deep prepiriform cortex (DPC) electrical stimulation. Samples of perfusate were collected before, during and after kindling was established. DPC kindling stimulation significantly increased concentrations of glutamate (Glu) and glycine (Gly) in perfusate from ventral hippocampus during kindling. Increased basal release of Glu was evident up to 30 days after the last electrical stimulation. We conclude that release of Glu and Gly in the ventral hippocampus may play an important role during establishment, but not in maintenance of kindling.
The effect of the alpha 2 antagonist, idazoxan (IDA), on the excitability of neurons in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus was studied. Population field potentials (PS) evoked by stimulation of the perforant pathway were measured before and after drug treatment. IDA enhanced the amplitude of the PS, while decreasing the slope of the EPSP. Neurotoxic destruction of noradrenergic nerve terminals completely abolished the IDA effect, arguing that its mechanism of action is through enhanced release of noradrenaline (NA). It is proposed that NA enhances the EPSP-to-spike coupling component of the PS.
1. A quantitative electron microscopic immunocytochemical technique was used to assess the number of synapses immunoreactive for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), phenylethanolamine N-methyl-transferase (PNMT) and neuropeptide Y (NPY) in the intermediolateral cell column in segments T2 and T3 of rat thoracic spinal cord. 2. TH synapses comprised about 5%; PNMT synapses 1-2%; and NPY synapses 1-2% of the total number of synapses in the intermediolateral cell column. All three types of synapses were predominantly or exclusively on dendrites. 3. Our results suggest that catecholamine/NPY neurons may not provide a major synaptic input to sympathetic preganglionic neurons in rat upper thoracic spinal cord.
This paper describes the work undertaken to establish principles for the development of multicenter databases for reference values in clinical neurophysiology. The study was initiated because of interest of the involved laboratories in knowledge-based systems in electromyographic diagnosis, for which it was necessary to formalize the key concepts in the diagnostic process: diseases, pathophysiology and test results. The paper deals specifically with the structuring of results of motor and sensory nerve conduction studies.
Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome has had a major impact on all aspects of clinical neuroscience in the past few years. Thus understanding acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and its associated complications within the nervous system was a major component of this review of the past year's radiologic literature of infection in the central nervous system. Particular topics discussed include the appearance of primary human immunodeficiency virus infection of the brain as well as toxoplasmosis, cryptococcal infection, and progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. In addition, the association of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome with the appearance of lymphoma, myeloradiculopathy, and vascular disease are considered. The remainder of the literature on central nervous system infection in the past year generally concerned the imaging characteristics of unusual infections such as cysticercosis, paragonimiasis, tuberculosis, Lyme disease, viral infection, and nonspecific inflammation of the meninges. The availability of an MR imaging contrast agent (gadolinium) also provided important diagnostic information to the radiologist in the imaging of infection in the central nervous system.
Scalp topography of the giant SEP and the pre-myoclonus spike demonstrated by jerk-locked back averaging was studied by using a computer-assisted evoked potential mapping technique in 5 patients with cortical reflex myoclonus. The initial positive peak of giant SEP was localized to the postcentral region contralateral to the stimulus and was associated with a negative potential field of the same latency at the frontal region in all cases. The main positive peak of pre-myoclonus spike was localized to the postcentral region contralateral to the myoclonus in 4 cases, and maximal at the midline postcentral region extending contralaterally with respect to the myoclonus in 1 case. The postcentral positive peak was associated with a frontal negativity in 2 of the 5 cases. In those 2 cases, the main components of giant SEP and the pre-myoclonus spike showed a similar scalp distribution with respect to the hand which was stimulated or myoclonic jerks were recorded from, although the latter was much smaller and less sharp than the former. These findings support our previous hypothesis that those 2 activities might be generated, at least in part, by common physiological mechanisms. In 3 other cases, however, the postcentral positive peak of the pre-myoclonus spike was not associated with a frontal negativity.
Evoked by electrical stimulation of the mental nerve, the masseter inhibitory reflex consists of an early and a late silent period (SP1 and SP2), which interrupt the voluntary electromyographic (EMG) activity in the masseter muscle. We recorded the masseter inhibitory reflex and measured its latency, depth of suppression, duration and recovery cycle to paired stimuli, in patients with Huntington's chorea. Parkinson's disease, dystonia, or unilateral masticatory spasm. In patients with Huntington's chorea the reflex data and recovery cycle were normal. In patients with Parkinson's disease or dystonia, although the reflex data were normal, SP2 recovered far more rapidly than it did in control subjects. This is possibly due to hypoactivity of an inhibitory control of the polysynaptic chain of ponto-medullary interneurons that mediate SP2. In patients with unilateral masticatory spasm, both SP1 and SP2 were absent. Suppression is probably absent because this involuntary movement originates at a point along the peripheral course of the nerve.
Although proenkephalin A (PEA) messenger RNA (mRNA) has been detected in many types of immune cells, little understanding exists about its role or the role of enkephalin peptides in immune responses. We have studied the expression of PEA mRNA during thymocyte maturation by identifying the subpopulation of thymocytes that expresses PEA mRNA. PEA mRNA was induced in unfractionated murine thymocytes after in vitro activation of these cells with the T cell mitogen, concanavalin A (Con-A). A slight induction of PEA mRNA was seen after 48 h of Con-A stimulation; however, the maximal response occurred after 72 h of culture with Con-A. Two PEA mRNA bands were present in unfractionated thymocytes which had been cultured with Con-A for 48 and 72 h. The predominant band was 1.4 kilobases (kb), and a second band was approximately 1.7 kb. Fractionation of thymocytes into CD4, CD8, and double negative subpopulations showed that only the 1.4 kb PEA mRNA was inducible in the mature CD4 subpopulation. Induction required the presence of antigen-presenting cells in addition to CD4 thymocytes. Neither the 1.4 kb nor the 1.7 kb PEA mRNA was induced in the CD8 or double negative subpopulations. In contrast to the action of Con-A on murine thymocytes, PEA mRNA was not induced by this mitogen in murine splenic mononuclear cells at 24, 48, or 72 h. The regulated expression of PEA mRNA in murine thymocytes, but not in peripheral T lymphocytes, suggests a role for PEA mRNA and its peptides in thymocyte maturation.
Induction of mitosis by certain growth factors is inhibited by pertussis toxin, indicating that the GTP-binding protein, Gi, is involved in receptor signal transduction to initiate cell division. However, the substrates of receptor-activated Gi that are involved in mitosis have not been determined. The present study has examined whether Gi may directly modulate cell division by receptor-induced subcellular translocation of the alpha subunit of Gi (Gi alpha). Insulin and EGF, particularly when added together or in combination with phorbol dibutyrate (PdBu), induced a rapid (1-4 h) redistribution of Gi alpha from the plasma membrane to perinuclear sites in the cell. After 2 days of stimulation, Gi alpha had translocated into the nucleus of dividing cells and bound specifically to the separating chromatin of dividing nuclei. Unstimulated cells did not display translocation of Gi alpha. This demonstrates a direct involvement of Gi alpha in cell division, which provides an apparently uninterrupted link from growth factor receptor to nucleus.
The small number of hair cells in auditory and vestibular organs severely impedes the biochemical characterization of the proteins involved in mechano-electrical transduction. By developing an efficient and clean &quot;twist-off&quot; method of hair bundle isolation, and by devising a sensitive, nonradioactive method to detect minute quantities of protein, we have partially overcome this limitation and have extensively classified the proteins of the bundles. To isolate hair bundles, we glue the saccular macula of the bullfrog to a glass coverslip, expose the tissue to a molten agarose solution, and allow the agarose to solidify to a firm gel. By rotating the gel disk with respect to the fixed macula, we isolate the hair bundles by shearing them at their mechanically weak bases. The plasma membranes of at least 80% of the stereocilia reseal. To visualize the proteins of the hair bundle, we covalently label them with biotin, separate them by SDS-PAGE, and transfer them to a charged nylon membrane. We can detect less than 500 fg of protein by probing the membrane with streptavidin-alkaline phosphatase and detecting the chemiluminescent product from the hydrolysis of the substrate 3-(4-methoxyspiro-(1,2-dioxetane-3,2'-tricyclo-[3.3.1. 1(3.7)]decan)-4-yl) phenyl phosphate (AMPPD). These techniques reveal a distinct constellation of proteins in and associated with hair bundles. Several proteins, such as calmodulin, calbindin, actin, tubulin, and fimbrin, have previously been described. A second class of proteins in the preparation appears to be derived from extracellular sources. Finally, several heretofore undescribed bundle proteins are identified and characterized by their membrane topology, subcellular localization, and glycosidase and protease sensitivities.
Reticulospinal neurons of the larval zebrafish Brachydanio rerio have been categorized into 27 different types (Kimmel et al.: Journal of Comparative Neurology 205:112-127, 1982; Metcalfe et al.: Journal of Comparative Neurology 251:147-159, 1986). Nineteen of these occur as bilateral pairs which are individually identifiable. Since considerable remolding of brain structures (e.g., cell death and modifications of neuronal architecture) occurs during development, we ask if these cells are preserved in the adult zebrafish and the extent to which neuronal morphology of the larva is conserved during ontogeny. In our analysis, we studied reticular neurons from 84 brains retrogradely labelled from the spinal cord with HRP. We show that all reticulospinal types of the larva are retained without considerable change in morphology in the adult. Many neurons, including the Mauthner cell and two of its serial homologues, MiD2cm and MiD3cm, can be individually and unambiguously identified. In addition, the appearance of later developing (tertiary) neurons leads to an increase in the numbers of some neuron types. Although tertiary neurons are often isomorphic with neighboring cells, they can have unique morphologies of their own and, therefore, are also individually identifiable. We suggest that the appearance of tertiary neurons may serve to extend the behavioural repertoire of the embryo. Moreover, morphological repetitions in adjacent segments of the otic region (level of VIIIth nerve entry) may represent the replication of a functional motif, perhaps involving the C-type escape response which is known to involve the Mauthner cell.
The current view that the Simon effect (Simon &amp; Small, 1969) reflects stimulus-response compatibility (SRC) is questioned. Previous accounts of the Simon effect have overlooked stimulus congruity (SC), the correspondence relation borne by the two simultaneous aspects of the stimulus, a factor inevitably confounded in the Simon paradigm with irrelevant spatial S-R correspondence. The Hedge and Marsh (1975) reversal effect, replicated in Experiment 1, is reinterpreted as decisive evidence that the Simon effect is entirely accounted for by SC. Furthermore, in Experiment 2 irrelevant S-R correspondence was manipulated in the absence of any variation of SC, and the Simon effect vanished. It is concluded that the Simon effect, contrary to current opinion, represents a spatial variant of the Stroop effect and is irrelevant to the SRC issue. The view that mental operations proceed automatically at the stage of response determination loses one of its strongest empirical arguments.
In previous work we have presented evidence for electrogenic Na+/Ca2+ exchange in Limulus ventral photoreceptors (1989. J. Gen. Physiol. 93:473-492). This article assesses the contributions to photoreceptor physiology from Na+/Ca2+ exchange. Four separate physiological processes were considered: maintenance of resting sensitivity, light-induced excitation, light adaptation, and dark adaptation. (a) Resting sensitivity: reduction of [Na+]o caused a [Ca2+]o-dependent reduction in light sensitivity and a speeding of the time courses of the responses to individual test flashes; this effect was dependent on the final value to which [Na+]o was reduced. The desensitization caused by Na+ reduction was dependent on the initial sensitivity of the photoreceptor; in fully dark-adapted conditions no desensitization was observed; in light-adapted conditions, extensive desensitization was observed. (b) Excitation: Na+ reduction in fully dark-adapted conditions caused a Ca2+o-dependent depolarizing phase in the receptor potential that persisted beyond the stimulus duration and was evoked by a bright adapting flash. (c) Light adaptation: the degree of desensitization induced by a bright adapting flash was Na+o dependent, being larger with lower [Na+]o. Na+ reduction enhanced light adaptation only at intensities brighter than 4 x 10(-6) W/cm2. In addition to being Na+o dependent, light adaptation was Ca2+o dependent, being greater at higher [Ca2+]o. (d) Dark adaptation: the recovery of light sensitivity after adapting illumination was Na+o dependent. Dark adaptation after bright illumination in voltage-clamped and in unclamped conditions was faster in normal-Na+ saline than in reduced Na+ saline. The final sensitivity to which photoreceptors recovered was lower in reduced-Na+ saline when bright adapting illumination was used. The results suggest the involvement of Na+/Ca2+ exchange in each of these physiological processes. Na+/Ca2+ exchange may contribute to these processes by counteracting normal elevations in [Ca2+]i.
Chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan (CS-PG) was purified from rat brain and examined for its effect on neurite outgrowth in primary cultures of embryonic rat neocortical neurons. Neurite outgrowth was increased in culture wells coated with CS-PG. The core protein and glycosaminoglycan (GAG) prepared from the CS-PG were also examined for neurite-promoting activity. The activity was observed in culture wells coated with the core protein but not with GAG. These results suggest that CS-PG stimulates neurite outgrowth from the cultured neurons via its core protein.
Primary cultures of neonatal rat cortical astrocytes contain low cellular levels (about 2 pg/mg of protein) of nerve growth factor (NGF), but secrete significant amounts of NGF into the culture medium (about 540 pg of NGF/mg of cell protein/38-h incubation). Incubation of astrocytes with interleukin-1 (IL-1) increased the cellular content of NGF and the amount secreted by about threefold. In comparison, cerebellar astrocytes secreted significant amounts of NGF, and the secretion was also stimulated by IL-1. The stimulatory action of IL-1 on astrocytes prepared from cortex was dose- and time-dependent. Concentrations of IL-1 causing half-maximal and maximal stimulation of NGF secretion were 1 and 10 U/ml, respectively). Maximal NGF secretion induced by IL-1 (10 U/ml) was seen following 38 h of incubation. The basal secretion of NGF was reduced by about 50% under Ca2(+)-free conditions; however, the percent stimulation of NGF secretion by IL-1 was the same in the absence or presence of Ca2+. The stimulatory action of IL-1 was specific, because other glial growth factors and cytokines were almost ineffective in stimulating NGF secretion from cortical astroglial cells. IL-1 treatment also increased cellular NGF mRNA content twofold. The results indicate that IL-1 specifically triggers a cascade of events, independent of cell growth, which regulate NGF mRNA content and NGF secretion by astrocytes.
HPLC analysis of guanidinium hydrochloride extracts of neonatal and adult rat brain revealed a polypeptide that is present in high concentration in the immature nervous system, but whose levels decline dramatically in the adult. This polypeptide has been isolated and its complete amino acid sequence determined by gas-phase Edman degradation following specific chemical and enzymatic cleavages. The molecule is identified as thymosin beta 10, a member of a multigene family that encodes a structurally conserved series of small acidic polypeptides of uncertain function. Thymosin beta 10 is present in the developing nervous system as early as embryonic day 9. Levels subsequently increase to peak values between embryonic day 15 and postpartum day 3, before falling to adult values (about a 20-fold reduction) by postpartum day 14. The elevated levels of thymosin beta 10 in fetal and neonatal brain correlate with high levels of thymosin beta 10 mRNA, whereas the low values of the polypeptide in the adult and juvenile are mirrored by an approximate 15-fold reduction in specific mRNA. In comparison, the levels of thymosin beta 4 polypeptide, a homologue of thymosin beta 10, only decline by about 20% during the same developmental period. However, the mRNA encoding thymosin beta 4 is elevated in fetal brain, and its levels decrease approximately four-fold to a stable value around the time of birth. The reason for this discrepancy between thymosin beta 4 protein and mRNA levels is unknown. Thymosin beta 10 can also be detected by HPLC in fetal liver, where levels are approximately 5% of those in brain. In liver, thymosin beta 10 also declines following birth. It is concluded that beta-thymosin expression (as measured by steady-state mRNA and polypeptide levels) is both up- and down-regulated during different phases of maturation of the mammalian nervous system.
Amyloid A4 protein (beta-protein) is deposited in the brain of a patient with Alzheimer's disease (AD) as one of the main components of extracellular cerebrovascular amyloid, as well as neurofibrillary tangles. It is derived from a precursor protein, and its formation has been considered to be a rate-limiting step for brain degeneration in AD. In this article, proteolytic cleavage events that can degrade amyloid precursor protein are reviewed with respect to how the topographical distribution of the proteinase and its substrates disturbs normal processing steps in AD brain.
A small acidic polypeptide, termed thymosin beta 10, has been identified and is present in the nervous system of the rat by the ninth day of gestation. Thymosin beta 10 levels rise during the remaining days of life in utero, and then decline to nearly undetectable values between the second and fourth week post partum. The present study investigates the possible developmental signals and mechanisms that might regulate the expression of thymosin beta 10 during neuroembryogenesis. Many cell lines derived from tumors of the central nervous system express thymosin beta 10, as well as its homologue gene product, thymosin beta 4. Because some of these cell lines respond to exogenously applied agents by increasing their apparent state of differentiation, we have determined whether thymosin beta 10 levels are coordinately modulated. In several neuroblastomas, including the B103 and B104 lines, retinoic acid elicits a time- and dose-dependent increase in the content of thymosin beta 10, but not that of thymosin beta 4. The increase in thymosin beta 10 polypeptide is associated with a marked increase in the specific mRNA encoding this molecule. The mRNA for thymosin beta 4 is unaffected by retinoic acid. This is in contrast with the situation in vivo, where the expression of both genes decreases after birth. Other agents that influence the morphology of B104 cells, such as phorbol esters and dibutyryl cyclic AMP, have no influence on beta-thymosin levels. A range of steroids, which like retinoids act upon nuclear receptors, was also inactive. The stimulatory action of retinoic acid is detectable within 4 h, and thymosin beta 10 peptide levels continue to rise for at least 4 days. The influence of the isoprenoid is fully reversible and exhibits structural specificity. We believe that this culture system is mimicking the early rising phase of thymosin beta 10 levels in brain and that endogenous retinoids may be candidate physiological regulators of this gene.
The molecular species of 1,2-diacyl-sn-glycerol (DAG), phosphatidylcholine (PC), phosphatidylethanolamine (PE), phosphatidylserine (PS), phosphatidylinositol (PI), phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate (PIP), and phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP2) from brains of adult rats (weighing 150 g) were determined. The DAG, isolated from brain lipid extracts by TLC, was benzoylated, and the molecular species of the purified benzoylated derivatives were separated from each other by reverse-phase HPLC. The total amount and the concentration of each species were quantified by using 1,2-distearoyl-sn-glycerol (18:0-18:0) as an internal standard. About 30 different molecular species containing different fatty acids at the sn-1 and sn-2 positions of DAG were identified in rat brains (1 min postmortem), and the predominant ones were 18:0-20:4 (35%), 16:0-18:1 (15%), 16:0-16:0 (9%), and 16:0-20:4 (8%). The molecular species of PC, PE, PS, and PI were determined by hydrolyzing the lipids with phospholipase C to DAG, which was then benzoylated and subjected to reverse-phase HPLC. PIP and PIP2 were first dephosphorylated to PI with alkaline phosphatase before hydrolysis by phospholipase C. The molecular species composition of phosphoinositides showed predominantly the 18:0-20:4 species (50% in PI and approximately 65% in PIP and PIP2). PS contained mainly the 18:0-22:6 (42%) and 18:0-18:1 (24%) species. PE was mainly composed of the 18:0-20:4 (22%), 18:0-22:6 (18%), 16:0-18:1 (15%), and 18:0-18:1 (15%) species. In PC the main molecular species were 16:0-18:1 (36%), 16:0-16:0 (19%), and 18:0-18:1 (14%). Studies on postmortem brains (30 s to 30 min) showed a rapid increase in the total amount (from 40-50 nmol/g in 0 min to 210-290 nmol/g in 30 min) and in all the molecular species of DAG. Comparatively larger increases (seven- to 10-fold) were found for the 18:0-20:4 and 16:0-20:4 species. Comparison of DAG species with the molecular species of different glycerolipids indicated that the rapid postmortem increase in content of DAG was mainly due to the breakdown of phosphoinositides. However, a slow but continuous breakdown of PC to DAG was also observed.
The levels of mRNA encoding glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) and preproenkephalin (PPE) were measured by Northern blot analysis, in the dorsal and the ventral part of the striatum, following long-term treatments with drugs acting selectively on D1 or D2 dopaminergic receptors. Chronic injection of the selective D1 antagonist SCH 23390 elicited a significant decrease in level of both GAD and PPE mRNA (-30%) in the dorsal striatum, whereas no significant change was observed in the ventral striatum. Chronic administration of both SCH 23390 and RU 24926, a D2 agonist, decreased the GAD and PPE mRNA levels in the dorsal (-38 and -57%, respectively) as well as in the ventral (-70 and -60%, respectively) striatum. In the ventral striatum the marked reduction of GAD mRNA levels was paralleled by a significant decrease of Vmax values of GAD enzymatic activity (-41%). These results suggest that the decrease in content of both GAD and PPE mRNA, promoted by the chronic blockade of D1 receptors, is mainly due to the action of dopamine acting on unaffected D2 receptors. Indeed, this decrease is further amplified when the D2 agonist and the D1 antagonist are administered together. Our results substantiate further the molecular mechanisms by which dopamine acts on different populations of GABAergic and enkephalinergic neurons in the two striatal regions examined.
Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a fatal X-linked recessive disorder of muscle in children. The DMD gene product, &quot;dystrophin&quot;, is absent from DMD, while the allelic disease, Becker muscular dystrophy (BMD), exhibits dystrophin of abnormal size and/or quantity. But we are still uncertain about the scenario that internally deleted (or duplicated) dystrophin in BMD possesses its carboxy (C)-terminal region, and severely truncated dystrophin in DMD does not. Here we use a new monoclonal antibody directed against an peptide in the C-terminal end of the dystrophin molecule to show that the C-terminus is preserved in 30 BMD and 24 control skeletal muscles but not in 21 DMD specimens. This result, taken together with data on deletions of the dystrophin gene, emphasizes both the diagnostic and biological importance of the C-terminal domain which is required for proper function and stability of dystrophin, and substantiates the validity of the reading frame hypothesis for DMD versus BMD deletions on a biochemical level.
The soleus H-reflex amplitude is deeply modulated during locomotion in humans (Capaday and Stein, 1986). Moreover, at a constant stimulus intensity, the slope of the relationship between the amplitude of the soleus H-reflex and the background electromyogram (EMG) changes with different locomotor tasks (Capaday and Stein, 1987a). Two further aspects are studied here. First, we recorded the reflex during overlapping speeds of walking (2.0-7.5 km/hr) and running (5-9 km/hr) to determine whether the speed, the motor output, or the form of locomotion was most important in setting the slope of this relationship between H-reflex and background EMG. Second, we determined the time course of change in the H-reflex amplitude and the possible site of action for the reflex depression during the transition from standing to walking. The primary determinant of the slope was found to be the form of locomotion. The differences between running and walking could not be explained entirely by either movement speed or motor output. For walking, the slope varied inversely with the speed and the motor output of locomotion. This compensation in slope as a function of motor output may prevent saturation of the motoneuron pool. The appropriate reflex amplitudes for a particular locomotor pattern are activated rapidly and completely within a reaction time, and simultaneously with the activation of muscle activity for the initiation of walking. Mechanisms for the rapid change seen during the initiation of locomotion most likely act presynaptically on the muscle spindle afferents. The time course and magnitude of this change are correlated with the activity of the tibialis anterior muscle.

Recordings were made from myenteric neurons of the guinea-pig ileum during reflexes evoked by mechanical stimulation of the mucosa. Impaled neurons were injected with dye (Lucifer yellow or biocytin), and their shapes were determined. All neurons were 5-12 mm from the stimulus, a brush stroke that deformed the mucosal villi. Neurons were classified as S-neurons or AH-neurons (Hirst et al., 1974). About 40% of S-neurons oral to a stimulus responded with bursts of fast EPSPs (average frequency, 15-40 Hz); these neurons were in ascending reflex pathways. About 60% of S-neurons anal to a stimulus responded with similar bursts of fast EPSPs or slow depolarizations; these neurons were in descending pathways. Only 2 of 48 AH-neurons responded, both in descending pathways. Most S-neurons in either ascending or descending pathways received inputs from at least 2 or 3 other neurons. Action potentials evoked during a response averaged 3-10 Hz in frequency, with occasional bursts at up to 100 Hz. The speed of conduction along the reflex pathways was about 0.5 m/sec. All S-neurons were uniaxonal, but they differed in size, dendritic morphology, and projections. The axons of S-neurons injected with biocytin were followed up to 7 mm within the myenteric plexus. Three S-neurons projected to the tertiary plexus and were probably longitudinal muscle motor neurons; 2 of these were in descending pathways. Five S-neurons projected along the intestine and had varicose collaterals in some ganglia. These neurons were probably interneurons; 3 were descending and 2 ascending, and all responded in the appropriate reflex pathway. Many S-neurons had short axons that entered the circular muscle and were probably circular muscle motor neurons. Others projected several millimeters along the intestine before entering the circular muscle or fading beyond detection. From this study, we have been able to deduce the circuits mediating ascending and descending mucosa-to-muscle reflexes. It is concluded that AH-neurons are primary sensory neurons and S-neurons are interneurons and muscle motor neurons in the circuits.
Sympathetic ganglia contain 2 adrenergic derivatives of the neural crest: principal neurons and small, intensely fluorescent (SIF) cells. The developmental mechanisms responsible for the generation of these 2 cell classes in vivo are not well understood. To examine the possible developmental and lineage relationships between differentiating principal neurons and SIF cells, a fluorescence microscopic study utilizing antibodies against tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and catecholamine histofluorescence has been combined with the ultrastructural examination of embryonic and postnatal rat superior cervical ganglia (SCG). On embryonic day 12.5, before neuroblasts had become postmitotic, the cells in the SCG possessed intense TH immunoreactivity and had weak to bright catecholamine histofluorescence, but no cells displayed the fine structure of mature SIF cells or neurons. At embryonic days 16.5 and 18.5, postmitotic principal neurons expressed more moderate levels of TH and catecholamines characteristic of the late embryonic and postnatal SCG. By contrast, a small number of cells containing intense TH or catecholamine fluorescence were present in embryonic day 16.5 and older ganglia. Almost all of the intensely fluorescent cells observed were found apposed to capillaries within the ganglion. These embryonic intensely fluorescent cells were larger than SIF cells seen postnatally. Ultrastructural examination of developing ganglia confirmed that cells containing numerous large, dense-cored vesicles (LDCVs) were a prominent feature of ganglia that also contained intensely fluorescent cells. In addition, some embryonic cells containing LDCVs were mitotic. From these and other studies, it seems likely that during development, neuron precursors, in response to differentiation factors such as fibroblast growth factor (FGF) and/or NGF, acquire overt neuronal traits and become postmitotic. Subsequently, cells resembling mature SIF cells appear next to blood vessels, where they may have received other instructional signals such as glucocorticoids. This developmental scheme suggests that the differentiation of principal neurons and SIF cells is independently regulated, and that the ability of SIF cells to convert into principal neurons observed in vitro cannot account for the generation of neurons in vivo.
Thin slices of differentiated fish retinas were maintained up to 5 days in culture conditions where they exhibited properties essentially identical to those found in retinas of intact animals. Retinal slices were prepared by embedding eyecups from young fish in agarose and sectioning them on a vibratome. Phenotypic integrity of specific cell types was maintained, as demonstrated by specific antibody staining patterns. Stem cells in the retinal margin and presumptive rod progenitor cells in the outer nuclear layer continued to proliferate in vitro, just as they do in vivo. Some of these cells differentiated in vitro as demonstrated by labelling both cell division and cell phenotype. After several days in culture, some regeneration-like responses were observed, such as growth of neurites and swelling of cell bodies in the ganglion cell layer. This retinal slice preparation appears to offer a unique opportunity for studying the interactions among developing retinal cells.
Interstitial hyperthermia therapy, the application of heat to control or destroy tumor tissue, is under investigation as an adjuvant treatment for recurrent intracranial malignancies. A brief review of the biologic effects and detailed information of one technique used to treat brain tumors are presented. Management of patients receiving hyperthermia is both challenging and complex. Neuroscience nurses must become knowledgeable about this form of therapy as it is more widely used in brain tumor management.
Over the years, clinical trials with their structured treatment plans and multicenter involvement have been instrumental in developing new treatments and establishing standard of care therapy. While clinical trials strive to advance medical knowledge, they provide scientifically sound, state of the art care and their use should be increased. The Brain Tumor Cooperative Group, one such NCI-sponsored cooperative group, has been the primary group for the treatment of malignant gliomas. As the field of neuro-oncology expands, the neuroscience nurse needs to develop an understanding of clinical trials and their operation. The nurse is in an optimal position to support medical research and the research participant.
Although the technical aspects of nursing care and management of acoustic neuroma patients have been discussed in literature, both the apparent and subtle neurological and psychological residuals of acoustic tumor have been largely overlooked. Long-term sequelae, unless acute, usually are not attended by the neuroscience nurse. However, nursing instruction and enhanced care while hospitalized can prepare the patient for self-care and improve final recovery. Responses of 541 members of the Acoustic Neuroma Association to a multipart questionnaire on aspects of the acoustic neuroma experience reveal the nurse plays an important role in preparing the patient for maximum recovery after hospital discharge.
Recent advances in diagnostic imaging, neurosurgical techniques and oncologic therapies provide a more optimistic outlook for practitioners, children with brain tumors and their families. Newer imaging modalities such as magnetic resonance imaging and positron emission tomography improve accuracy of both initial diagnosis and follow-up evaluation for recurrence or metastasis. Recent advances in microsurgical technique allow for more complete tumor resection. Improving immunological and chemotherapeutic agents show future promise for tumor-specific treatment. Craniospinal irradiation techniques are changing in response to research into long-term effects of radiation on the developing nervous system and patterns of tumor recurrence and metastasis. Stereotactic radiation allows high-dose radiation to be given to focal areas minimizing radiation effects to surrounding normal structures. These changes impact the nursing care of children, requiring neuroscience nurses to be aware of current treatment modalities. Greater awareness of these changes ensures optimum patient care.
The formaldehyde-induced fluorescence (FIF) and micro-spectrofluorometric techniques were used to study catecholamines in the sympathetic nervous system of normal and trisomy 16 fetal mice with a gestation age of 15 days, an animal model for human trisomy 21 (Down's syndrome). FIF intensity in the stellate sympathetic ganglion of trisomic embryos did not differ from that of controls, whereas in the adrenal medulla the FIF intensity was 38% less in trisomic than in control embryos. When adrenal medullary cells from embryos with a gestational age of 15 days were maintained in culture for 7-10 days, a difference in FIF intensity between groups was still evident. The rate of noradrenaline uptake in cultured adrenal medullary cells also was significantly less in trisomic than in control fetal mice. The results suggest that the development of adrenal medulla is slowed in trisomic 16 mice and that uptake of noradrenaline by trisomic adrenal medullary cells is impaired.
Microtubule-associated protein 1B (MAP1B) is a major constituent of the neuronal cytoskeleton early in development. This protein is present in embryonic brain and is composed of two isoforms that are the result of differential phosphorylation. We examined the distribution of MAP1B during the differentiation of cultured hippocampal neurons and compared it to that of MAP2 and tubulin. We demonstrated by immunofluorescent doublestaining that MAP1B and MAP2 are colocalized in cell bodies and the minor processes of hippocampal neurons during the early stages of development, before the establishment of neuronal polarity. Later, when neurons acquire axonal and dendritic characteristics, MAP1B is sorted into growing axons, including the growth cone, whereas MAP2 is restricted to dendrites and cell bodies. Unlike tubulin, the localization of MAP1B in growing axons is not uniform. Rather, the protein is found concentrated in the distal portion. During later stages of development, the neurons extend a network of fasciculating axonal and dendritic neurites in which the segregation of MAP1B and MAP2 is maintained. However, the staining of MAP1B in mature neuronal cultures decreases in a pattern that resembles the decline of this protein during brain development. These results support the association of MAP1B with growing axons and its correct developmental regulation in the hippocampal culture system.
Stable cell lines with significantly elevated or diminished levels of a key neuropeptide processing enzyme, peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM), were generated by transfection of a mouse pituitary cell line with expression vectors containing PAM cDNA in the sense or antisense orientation. By evaluating the ability of these cell lines to alpha-amidate endogenous neuropeptides, a rate-limiting role for PAM in neuropeptide alpha-amidation was demonstrated. Overexpression of either the full-length PAM precursor with its trans-membrane domain or a soluble protein containing only the monooxygenase domain of PAM led to increased alpha-amidation of endogenous neuropeptides. Overexpression of the full-length PAM led to an unexpected decrease in the endoproteolytic processing of endogenous prohormone; conversely, underexpression of PAM led to significantly enhanced endoproteolytic processing of endogenous prohormone. These data suggest that PAM may have additional functions in peptide processing.
The stimulation of beta-adrenergic receptors by isoproterenol increases nerve growth factor (NGF) biosynthesis in C6 rat glioma cells, suggesting that norepinephrine may regulate NGF biosynthesis in vivo. We have tested this hypothesis in 21-day-old rats by depleting catecholamine stores with reserpine. Northern blot analysis of NGF mRNA, in combination with a two-site enzyme immunoassay for NGF, showed that depletion of catecholamines was associated with a 3-fold increase in NGF mRNA, which was followed by a significant increase in the NGF content of cerebral cortex. The increase in NGF mRNA was most marked 9 hr after reserpine administration (2 mg/kg, subcutaneously) and was no longer apparent 24 hr after drug administration, when brain monoamine stores were still depleted. Moreover, the lowest dose of reserpine that significantly increased NGF mRNA levels induced only a small change in the content of cortical catecholamines. These results suggest that reserpine mediates the increase in NGF production by a mechanism other than monoamine depletion. Because reserpine increases plasma glucocorticoid concentrations through the pituitary-adrenal axis, we investigated whether adrenal steroids could be responsible for the induction of NGF biosynthesis. The effect of reserpine on NGF biosynthesis was abolished in adrenalectomized rats. Moreover, dexamethasone, a synthetic glucocorticoid, given at a dose of 0.5 mg/kg, subcutaneously, increased the amount of NGF mRNA and NGF in cerebral cortex. NGF biosynthesis in the central nervous system may, thus, be regulated by adrenocortical hormonal secretion.
Opipramol (OP), a clinically effective antidepressant with a tricyclic structure, is inactive as an inhibitor of biogenic amine uptake. [3H]Opipramol binds saturably to rat brain membranes (apparent KD = 4 nM, Bmax = 3 pmol/mg of protein). [3H]Opipramol binding can be differentiated into haloperidol-sensitive and -resistant components, with Ki values for haloperidol of 1 nM (Bmax = 1 pmol/mg of protein) and 350 nM (Bmax = 1.9 pmol/mg of protein), respectively. The drug specificity of the haloperidol-sensitive component is the same as that of sigma receptors labeled with (+)-[3H]3-(3-hydroxyphenyl)-N-(1-propyl)piperdine. The haloperidol-resistant component does not correspond to any known neurotransmitter receptor or uptake recognition site. It displays high affinity for phenothiazines and related structures such as perphenazine, clopenthixol, and flupenthixol, whose potencies are comparable to that of opipramol. Because certain of these drugs are more potent at the haloperidol-resistant opipramol site than in exerting any other action, it is possible that this opipramol-selective site may mediate their therapeutic effects.

[3H](3-Me-His2) thyrotropin-releasing hormone ([3H]MeTRH) bound to TRH receptors in rodent, rabbit and dog brain and spinal cord (SC), and in rat, sheep, bovine and dog anterior pituitary (PIT) glands, with high affinity (dissociation constants, KdS = 5-9 nM; n = 3-4) but to different densities of these sites (Bmax range 6-145 fmol/mg protein) (rabbit SC greater than sheep PIT much greater than G.pig brain greater than dog brain greater than rat brain greater than bovine and dog PIT). Various TRH analogs competitively inhibited [3H]MeTRH binding in these tissues with a similar rank order of potency: MeTRH greater than TRH greater than CG3703 greater than or equal to RX77368 greater than or equal to MK-771 greater than TRH Glycinamide greater than Glu1-TRH much greater than CG3509 greater than or equal to NVal2-TRH much much greater than TRH free acid much much greater than and cyclo-His-Pro, indicating a pharmacological similarity of CNS and pituitary TRH receptors. While most TRH analogs displaced [3H]MeTRH binding with a similar potency in the different species, TRH exhibited a 2-fold lower affinity in the rat and G.pig brain than in other tissues of other species. Similarly, CG3703 was 2.4-4.5 times more active in the rabbit brain than in the rodent and dog brain, and also more potent in the rabbit brain as compared to the sheep PIT.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We investigated the effect of flunarizine treatment (10 mg/d) in 17 subjects with essential tremor in a double-blind placebo-controlled design. Tremor was assessed by clinical scoring, tremographic recordings, and subjective rating by subjects. Of the 15 subjects who completed the study, 13 showed improvement. We conclude that flunarizine is effective treatment for essential tremor.
Triphenyltetrazolium chloride (TTC) was used to delineate ischaemic lesions in the rat brain at various times following middle cerebral artery occlusion. A comparison was made of TTC staining by immersion and perfusion techniques and conventional light microscopy. The lesions were quantified by measuring the ischaemic area at the sections corresponding to 7 mm in front of the AO line (atlas of Konig and Klippel). In animals examined 24 h after middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO), the area of infarction was 17.4 +/- 1.3 mm2 on the TTC perfused slices and 17.6 +/- 1.6 mm2 on the TTC immersed slices (mean +/- SEM). By contrast, there was a marked difference between the two TTC methods when tissues were examined at shorter intervals after artery occlusion. In the TTC-perfused animals, there was no significant difference between the mean areas of infarction measured at 5-20 min, 3-4 h, or 24 h post occlusion. Immersion in TTC, however, failed to reveal any consistent ischaemic damage when applied at the earlier post-occlusion times. Conventional histopathology demonstrated minimal lesions at 5-20 min but at 4 h or more the lesions were not significantly different from those demonstrated by TTC perfusion. TTC immersion staining can, thus, only be used as a reliable marker of cerebral ischaemia damage with post-occlusion survival periods of 24 h. TTC perfusion staining gives results not significantly different from histopathology at 4 h or more post-occlusion but at earlier intervals than 24 h it differs significantly from TTC immersion staining.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Morphine alters affective states in humans and produces reinforcement in humans and animal subjects. Therefore, the present study was designed to determine whether morphine affected the functional activity in brain structures involved in emotion and motivation. Since opioid-induced analgesia largely reflects an influence on the emotional component of pain, the effect of pain on activity in these structures was also studied. Local rates of glucose utilization were measured by the 2-deoxy-D[1-14C]glucose method in the brains of rats, that received morphine or saline, with or without a painful stimulus. Many rostral, and particularly diencephalic, nuclei showed decreased glucose utilization in morphine-treated rats, although caudal regions were mostly unaffected. There were dose-dependent decreases in glucose utilization with doses between 1 and 10 mg/kg morphine. However, nociceptive stimulation, with either formalin or tail-immersion, produced no significant effect on cerebral glucose utilization. The 2-deoxy-D-[1-14C]-glucose technique, as used here, may lack adequate sensitivity to delineate areas of the brain mediating nociception in rats.
The psychotomimetic effects of phencyclidine (PCP) in humans can persist or reappear months after the drug has been eliminated, suggesting that PCP can induce long-term changes in the brain. The present study examined whether repeated exposure to PCP in a human drug-addicted population was accompanied by alterations in either PCP or sigma binding sites in their postmortem brains as compared to suicide controls. Saturation studies using [3H]TCP and [3H]haloperidol in the presence of spiperone to measure PCP and sigma sites, respectively, revealed no significant differences in the affinity or density of binding sites between these two clinical populations in a variety of brain areas examined. The results suggest that these brain binding sites remain unperturbed in humans despite multiple challenges with PCP. Delayed psychotic episodes following the use of PCP may be attributed to other neurochemical changes that are initiated by interactions of PCP with these two binding sites.
A liquid chromatographic system with multiple electrochemical detectors (LCMC) was newly developed for quantitating 20 to 30 neurochemicals simultaneously within 20 to 25 min from one sample derived from biological specimens. The device can be used for estimating neurofunctional changes in the central nervous system under the influence of CNS drugs, behavioral changes of experimental animals and psychic effects in clinical stages, etc. The system consists of four parallel liquid chromatographs with multiple electrochemical detectors. The first three systems determine catecholamines, indoleamines and related compounds. The fourth system is for measuring acetylcholine and choline with an internal standard. A new type of electrochemical detector was developed that consists of 4 electrodes set at a different potentials: each of the eluting components was identified by the variation of 4 current peaks on each electrode. Twenty-eight standard compounds, including four internal standards, could be clearly separated; and the detection limits of these compounds were at least 0.1 to 0.4 pmol per injection. In this report, the usefulness and applicability of this system were confirmed by measuring neurochemicals in the striatum of rats sacrificed either by decapitation or microwave irradiation and in the human ventricular cerebrospinal fluid of patients with Parkinson's disease and essential tremor.

Even with radical restriction of range, reliability coefficients from 10 studies gave an average interstudy value of .74, suggesting constancy of reliability over diverse experiments. A value from a new test can help index reliability of tests not previously studied.
Tetrahydroaminoacridine (THA), an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor that is reported to have significant effects on cognition and memory in Alzheimer's disease patients, binds to rat brain membranes in a saturable and reversible manner. Computer analysis of the binding data revealed high- and low-affinity sites with Kd values of 97.8 nM and 4.65 microM and Bmax values of 4.13 and 114 pmol/mg protein. Autoradiographic studies show that these binding sites are not co-localized with acetylcholinesterase activity. The binding of [3H]THA to membranes does not appear to be related to receptors for several neurotransmitters/neuromodulators, including acetylcholine and other acetylcholinesterase inhibitors. Amiridin, a closely related acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, was able to block specific [3H]THA binding (IC50 = 1.05 microM). While the function of THA mediated by these sites is unknown, they may be responsible in part for the distinct clinical effects of tetrahydroaminoacridine compared to other acetylcholinesterase inhibitors.
Tests of the perception and use of linear acceleration sensory information were performed on the science crews of the Spacelab 1 (SL-1) and D-1 missions using linear &quot;sleds&quot; in-flight (D-1) and pre-post flight. The time delay between the acceleration step stimulus and the subjective response was consistently reduced during weightlessness, but was neither statistically significant nor of functional importance. Increased variability of responses when going from one environment to the other was apparent from measurements on the first day of the mission and in the first days post-flight. Subjective report of perceived motion during sinusoidal oscillation in weightlessness were qualitatively similar to reports on earth. In a closed-loop motion nulling task, enhanced performance was observed post-flight in all crewmembers tested in the Y or Z axes.

The cerebellum contains a hexadecapeptide, termed cerebellin, that is conserved in sequence from human to chicken. Three independent, overlapping cDNA clones have been isolated from a human cerebellum cDNA library that encode the cerebellin sequence. The longest clone codes for a protein of 193 amino acids that we term precerebellin. This protein has a significant similarity (31.3% identity, 52.2% similarity) to the globular (non-collagen-like) region of the B chain of human complement component C1q. The region of relatedness extends over approximately 145 amino acids located in the carboxyl terminus of both proteins. Unlike C1q B chain, no collagen-like motifs are present in the amino-terminal regions of precerebellin. The amino terminus of precerebellin contains three possible N-linked glycosylation sites. Although hydrophobic amino acids are clustered at the amino terminus, they do not conform to the classical signal-peptide motif, and no other obvious membrane-spanning domains are predicted from the cDNA sequence. The cDNA predicts that the cerebellin peptide is flanked by Val-Arg and Glu-Pro residues. Therefore, cerebellin is not liberated from precerebellin by the classical dibasic amino acid proteolytic-cleavage mechanism seen in many neuropeptide precursors. In Northern (RNA) blots, precerebellin transcripts, with four distinct sizes (1.8, 2.3, 2.7, and 3.0 kilobases), are abundant in cerebellum. These transcripts are present at either very low or undetectable levels in other brain areas and extraneural structures. A similar pattern of cerebellin precursor transcripts are seen in rat, mouse, and human cerebellum. Furthermore, a partial genomic fragment from mouse shows the same bands in Northern blots as the human cDNA clone. During rat development, precerebellin transcripts mirror the level of cerebellin peptide. Low levels of precerebellin mRNA are seen at birth. Levels increase modestly from postpartum day 1 to 8, then increase more dramatically between day 5 and 15, and eventually reach peak values between day 21 and 56. Because cerebellin-like immunoreactivity is associated with Purkinje cell postsynaptic structures, these data raise interesting possibilities concerning the function of the cerebellin precursor in synaptic physiology.

THE CONCEPT of reduplication has done much to break down the traditional barriers between behavioral neurology and psychiatry, and to provide a common theme for the study of the delusional misidentification syndromes. This paper describes the features of reduplication that occur in neurological patients, considers their selective and symbolic aspects, their relationship to other disturbances of behavior and to alterations in brain function, and indicates their applicability to the illusion of doubles first described by Joseph Marie Capgras.

The purpose of this paper is to lay the groundwork for the development of a scientific theory of complex human functioning. We first discuss the assumptions on which our thinking is based, then advance the argument that behavior, and human activity in general, may be more fully understood in light of current data on the structural organization of the central nervous system. The brain is organized as a modular, distributed, self-organizing system, which is in constant transaction with the environment. Because of its plasticity, structural and functional change occurs in the brain as a result of experience throughout life. It is our thesis that complex human behavior is organized in a similar manner - that is, human personality and behavior manifest themselves as modular systems. The insights provided by an understanding of the relationship of brain and behavior may enhance the capacity to explain both normal and pathological personality functioning.
Appropriate management of the patient with transient focal neurological symptoms must start with accurate clinical diagnosis. Wider use of clear diagnostic criteria and symptom checklists, and better knowledge of the clinical features of the 'funny turns' which are not related to transient focal cerebral ischaemia could reduce the present variability in clinical diagnosis of transient ischaemic attacks. More accurate clinical diagnosis contributes to better selection of the most appropriate investigation strategy for each patient. A basic minimum standard of investigation is outlined and perhaps provides a suitable template for audit. Patients with transient ischaemic attacks which are definitely in the carotid distribution may be eligible for entry in trials of carotid endarterectomy. Prudent use of duplex ultrasound studies of the carotid arteries in patients with appropriate symptoms is an effective way to reduce the costs of investigations and their complications (i.e. the number of strokes associated with cerebral angiography). Digital venous subtraction angiography has, by comparison, many disadvantages as a screening tool. Advances in management include: recent statistical overviews which have emphasized the need to consider blood pressure and plasma cholesterol reduction in a large proportion of patients, and the value of long term anti-platelet therapy in reducing the risks of stroke, myocardial infarction and vascular death in both males and females. The value of anticoagulants in patients with atrial fibrillation and transient ischaemic attacks or minor stroke is being tested in current trials.
The purpose of this study was to develop an animal model that could be used to test the ability of Doppler ultrasound to detect arterial emboli composed of materials that are often involved in cerebral emboli. Emboli introduced into the rabbit aorta via the left renal artery consisted of clotted whole blood, platelets, atheromatous material, fat, or air. The ultrasound examination was carried out continuously during the studies using a multifrequency transcranial Doppler apparatus with a 2-MHz probe, a sample volume of 15 mm, at a depth of 15 mm. The intensity of the Doppler spectrum was measured and displayed as a 15-shade color scale, each shade representing a 3-dB difference. The diameter of the aorta at the site of the ultrasound examination was similar to the diameter of the middle cerebral artery in humans. All 125 emboli introduced were clearly detected because they caused a Doppler signal at least 15 dB greater than that of the surrounding blood. These results show that the potential for emboli detection using Doppler ultrasound in the clinical situation is now considerable.
Extensive evidence indicates that disruption of cholinergic function is characteristic of aging and Alzheimer's disease (AD), and experimental manipulation of the cholinergic system in laboratory animals suggests age-related cholinergic dysfunction may play an important role in cognitive deterioration associated with aging and AD. Recent research, however, suggests that cholinergic dysfunction does not provide a complete account of age-related cognitive deficits and that age-related changes in cholinergic function typically occur within the context of changes in several other neuromodulatory systems. Evidence reviewed in this paper suggests that interactions between the cholinergic system and several of these neurotransmitters and neuromodulators--including norepinephrine, dopamine, serotonin, GABA, opioid peptides, galanin, substance P, and angiotensin II--may be important in learning and memory. Thus, it is important to consider not only the independent contributions of age-related changes in neuromodulatory systems to cognitive decline, but also the contribution of interactions between these systems to the learning and memory deficits associated with aging and AD.
Earlier this year I tried to locate and count the scientists who may possibly want to join the Polish Neuroscience Society. A first rough estimate indicated about 200-250 scientists, including graduate students, who do research on the nervous system. It seemed worthwhile to attempt to highlight their work so that Polish neuroscience might share in the impetus coming from the historical changes sweeping across Europe.

An objective method was sought for the discrimination of individual motor units (MUs). Discrimination using the conventional needle electrode recording is difficult because the waveforms are easily changed by slight shifts of the electrode. A surface EMG recording was combined with the needle recording and MU activities were obtained by MU-triggered averaging of the surface EMGs. Waveforms of surface MU potentials were stable, irrelevant to changes in recording conditions of needle electrodes and thus were found useful for the purpose of discrimination. Efficacy of this method was tested in the MUs with known axonal conduction velocities.
The dopamine transporter from rat caudate-putamen was photolabeled with [125I]DEEP as previously described. Treatment of photolabeled membranes with neuraminidase and N-glycanase reduced the molecular weight of the [125I]DEEP photolabeled dopamine transporter complex, whereas treatment with alpha-mannosidase had no effect. The solubilized [125I]DEEP photolabeled dopamine transporter complex readily bound to wheat-germ agglutinin but not to concanavalin-A sepharose columns. These results suggest that the carbohydrate moiety of the dopamine transporter is N-linked and contains significant quantities of sialic acid but not high mannose residues. A DEEP binding protein was readily detectable in other brain regions including the nucleus accumbens and olfactory tubercle, but not in the prefrontal cortex, olfactory bulb or hypothalamus under similar conditions. The DEEP binding protein in the other brain regions was similar to that in the striatum.
The adult human neocortex contains a dense net of axons and perikarya which yield an acetylcholinesterase-rich enzymatic reaction pattern in histochemical experiments. We employed a monoclonal antibody to human acetylcholinesterase and a method for the concurrent visualization of histochemical and immunohistochemical reaction-products to explore the relationship between immunological and enzymatic markers of acetylcholinesterase. We observed that the cortical axons and perikarya with a histochemically determined acetylcholinesterase-rich enzymatic activity also contain acetylcholinesterase-like immunoreactivity. This was especially informative for the intracortical acetylcholinesterase-rich perikarya of layers III and V since these neurons require prolonged incubations for histochemical detection and since they are not conspicuous in other animal species. The availability of a reliable immunohistochemical method makes it possible to investigate the distribution of the acetylcholinesterase enzyme molecule independent of its enzymatic activity.
Lumbar regions L5-L6 of the spinal cord of the male rat contain the sexually dimorphic motor nuclei, the spinal nucleus of the bulbocavernosus (SNB) and the dorsolateral nucleus (DLN), which innervate perineal muscles, the bulbocavernosus and the ischiocavernosus, respectively. This neuromuscular system controls penile reflexes which are essential to male reproductive success. Oxytocin has been shown to induce penile reflexes and the site of action for these effects is the PVN. Since PVN is known to project to cervical and thoracic levels of spinal cord, the present study examined projections of the PVN to the L5-L6 region of the spinal cord. WGA-HRP was injected into the region of L5-L6, aimed at the SNB and DLN and their dendritic extents, in intact male, castrated male and female rats. WGA-HRP-labelled cells bodies were found in the parvocellular subnuclei of PVN, as well as regions of the lateral hypothalamus and the dorsal area of the hypothalamus. These results demonstrate that the PVN projects to lumbar levels of the spinal cord that are sexually dimorphic and androgen-dependent. This suggests that PVN may modulate the activity of these motoneurons.
The uptake, binding and release of the polyamines, spermidine and spermine, and of their diamine precursor, putrescine, were examined in synaptosomal preparations from rat hippocampus. The specific and relatively high-affinity uptake by synaptosomes was found only with putrescine (Vmax = 21.6 pmol/mg protein per h; Km = 28.6 nM) and not with the other polyamines. In contrast, specific binding to membranes was found for spermidine (Bmax = 28.6 pmol/mg protein; Kd = 42.9 nM) and for spermine (Bmax = 156.3 pmol/mg protein; Kd = 83.3 nM), but not for putrescine. High potassium concentrations (35 mM) both induced the release of accumulated polyamines from synaptosomes and inhibited their binding. Specific polyamine binding evidently occurs selectively on the inner but not on the outer synaptosomal membranes.
The COOH-terminal alpha-amidation of bioactive peptides is a 2-step process catalyzed by two separable enzymatic activities both derived from the peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM) precursor. Two forms of PAM mRNA (rPAM-1 and -2), differing by the presence or absence of optional Exon A, were previously characterized; both encode precursors predicted to have an NH2-terminal signal sequence, an intragranular domain containing both enzymatic activities, and a single transmembrane domain followed by a short, cytoplasmic COOH-terminal domain. In this report, two novel types of PAM mRNA were identified in adult rat atrium. A cDNA of each type was sequenced, and the results indicate that rPAM-3 and -4 could be related to each other and to the previously characterized rat PAM cDNAs by alternative mRNA splicing. Deletion of a 258-nucleotide segment (optional Exon B) encoding the transmembrane domain from rPAM-3 and the presence of a novel 3'-exon in rPAM-4 mean that both rPAM-3 and -4 mRNAs encode precursor proteins that have an NH2-terminal signal peptide but lack a transmembrane domain. The rPAM-4 precursor protein lacks the region of the PAM precursor catalyzing the second step in the alpha-amidation reaction. Low levels of rPAM-3 and -4 type mRNA were detected in atrium. Utilizing the polymerase chain reaction, two major patterns of distribution of forms of PAM mRNA were found. In the heart and central nervous system, PAM mRNAs both containing and lacking optional Exon A were prevalent and almost all of the PAM mRNAs detected contained optional Exon B. In the pituitary and submaxillary glands, PAM mRNAs lacking optimal Exon A were prevalent, as were PAM mRNAs lacking all or part of optional Exon B. Since the distribution of PAM activity between soluble and membrane fractions is tissue-specific and developmentally regulated and since rPAM-4 lacks an enzymatic portion of the PAM precursor, the tissue-specific expression of these forms of rat PAM mRNA is expected to be of functional significance.
CP-96,345, a nonpeptide substance P antagonist, is selective for the tachykinin NK1 receptor. The compound binds to a single population of sites in guinea pig brain and potently inhibits substance P-induced excitation of locus ceruleus neurons. CP-96,345 should be a useful tool for studying the action of substance P in the central nervous system.
Comparative analyses were made of the immunohistochemical and biochemical distributions of three prosomatostatin-derived peptides (PSDP) in human, perfused monkey, and unperfused monkey neocortex. The PSDP we examined were the tetradecapeptide somatostatin 14 (SS14); the N-terminal extension of this peptide, somatostatin 28 (SS28); and somatostatin 28(1-12) (SS28(1-12)). In immunohistochemical experiments, numerous SS28-immunoreactive perikarya were located in both superficial and deep layers of perfused monkey cortex, but none were present in the cerebral cortex from unperfused monkey or autopsied human brains. In contrast, the number of SS28(1-12)-immunoreactive neurons was five times greater in the superficial cortical layers of unperfused monkey than of perfused monkey brain. Moreover, unperfused monkey and human cortex contained notably more SS14-immunoreactive processes than perfused monkey cortex. These data suggested that SS28 may have been converted into SS14 and SS28(1-12) in unperfused tissue during the post-mortem interval. This hypothesis was examined biochemically by measuring the levels of immunoreactivity of SS14, SS28, and SS28(1-12) in samples of unperfused monkey cortex frozen at different time intervals after removal from the brain. Samples frozen 10 minutes or longer after removal contained only 10-20% the level of SS28 immunoreactivity measured in samples frozen immediately or 1 minute after removal. The levels of SS14 and SS28(1-12) immunoreactivity did not demonstrate such reductions, and may instead have increased at early time points. To further characterize post-mortem effects on PSDP and to explore for species differences, we performed a detailed comparison of the regional, laminar, and cellular distribution of SS28(1-12) immunoreactivity under the three conditions. A progressive loss of immunoreactivity, particularly in radial fibers, was found at increasing post-mortem intervals in unperfused monkey neocortex, indicating that differences in density and distribution of immunoreactive fibers between human and perfused monkey may result from post-mortem peptide degradation in unperfused tissue. In contrast, the larger size of SS28(1-12)-immunoreactive white matter neurons in humans as compared to monkeys appeared partially due to a post-mortem effect but also reflected a species difference. In addition, the density of white matter neurons was found to be significantly greater in human than in perfused or unperfused monkey. These data indicate that any study of human autopsy material must be assessed in light of possible post-mortem effects.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A characteristic of early visual processing is a reduction in the effective number of filter mechanisms acting in parallel over the visual field. In the detection of a line target differing in orientation from a background of lines, performance with brief displays appears to be determined by just two classes of orientation-sensitive filter, with preferred orientations close to the vertical and horizontal. An orientation signal represented as a linear combination of responses from such filters is shown to provide a quantitative prediction of the probability density function for identifying the perceived orientation of a target line. This prediction was confirmed in an orientation-matching experiment, which showed that the precision of orientation estimates was worst near the vertical and horizontal and best at about 30 degrees each side of the vertical, a result that contrasts with the classical oblique effect in vision, when scrutiny of the image is allowed. A comparison of predicted and observed frequency distributions showed that the hypothesized orientation signal was formed as an opponent combination and horizontal and vertical filter responses.
Visual detection of a line target differing in orientation from a background of lines may be achieved speedily and effortlessly. Such performance is assumed to occur early in vision and to involve filter mechanisms acting in parallel over the visual field. This study establishes orientational limits on this performance and analytically derives some generic properties of the underlying filters. It was found that, in brief displays, target orientation detection thresholds increased approximately linearly with background orientation, from minima at 0 degree (vertical) and 90 degrees, whereas background orientation detection thresholds decreased approximately linearly with target orientation, from maxima at 0 degree and 90 degrees. Target and background threshold functions were exactly antisymmetric. These data are shown to indicate a model of early line processing dominated by two classes of orientation-sensitive filter with axes close to the vertical and horizontal and orientation-tuning half-widths each of approximately 30 degrees at half-height.
A single coronal slice, containing the intermediate part of the medial hyperstriatum ventrale (IMHV) was cut from the left forebrain of a series of domestic chicks and maintained in vitro. Records were made of field responses evoked in the IMHV by local electrical stimuli. Two 1-min periods of 5 Hz stimulation, separated by 10 min, were used in attempts to induce persistent potentiation of the responses (PPR) to test stimulation at 0.1 Hz. In dark-hatched chicks the probability of producing PPR is much higher in slices from chicks aged 2-5 days post-hatch than in those from either younger or older birds. As an independent measure of plasticity in dark-hatched chicks, the probability of eliciting unit responses to repeated stimulation of remote sites in the slice at 3.3 Hz was analysed. This probability was greater in slices from chicks aged 2-5 days than in those from either younger or older birds. In light-hatched chicks the probability of inducing PPR is significantly higher during the first day post-hatch, than in dark-hatched chicks of this age. The probability of producing PPR in slices from light-hatched chicks aged 2-3 days is less than that in slices from either younger or older birds. It is clear that both the age and past experience of the domestic chick affect the neurophysiological properties of slices of brain, tested in vitro.
Coronal slices, containing part of the medial hyperstriatum ventrale (MHV), were cut from the left forebrains of domestic chicks and maintained in vitro. Records were made of the field responses evoked in the MHV by local electrical stimuli provided at 0.1 Hz. Two 1 min periods of stimulation at 5 Hz, separated by 10 min, were used in attempts to induce a persistent increase in the size of the postsynaptic response to test stimulation at 0.1 Hz. This procedure produced a potentiation which usually lasted longer than 2 h. The probability of inducing this persistent potentiation of the response (PPR) is not distributed evenly over the whole anteroposterior length of the MHV but is higher in slices that also contain the septo-mesencephalic tract ventrally. These are the slices that contain the intermediate part of the medial hyperstriatum ventrale (IMHV); an area that is essential for early behavioural learning. At this level PPR is not confined to the IMHV. It can also be produced in the lateral neostriatum in response to similar local stimulation at 5 Hz. No PPR was observed in either the caudal ectostriatum, or the paleostriatum.
A horizontal flow-through coil planet centrifuge equipped with a rotatory frame holding three sets of composite column assemblies was used for purification of an endogenous ligand (ketanserin binding inhibitor) for the [3H]-ketanserin (3H-KET) recognition site. The protein mixture containing the endogenous material was successfully resolved by using a two-phase solvent system consisting of 95% ethanol-31.5% ammonium sulphate (1:2). The active fractions on 3H-KET binding obtained after counter-current chromatography (CCC) were further purified through a C18 microBondapak reversed-phase high-pressure liquid chromatographic column. The introduction of this advanced CCC technique represents an important step in the application of CCC for the separation of polar proteins from protein mixtures.
Quisqualic acid sensitizes hippocampal CA1 neurons to depolarization by L-2-amino-4-phosphonobutanoic acid (L-AP4). This sensitization to L-AP4 is known to be blocked by simultaneous exposure to L-homocysteinesulfinic acid, L-alpha-aminoadipic acid and L-serine-O-sulfate during exposure to quisqualate. We report here that these compounds also act as 'pre-blockers' which, when added and removed from the medium prior to exposure to quisqualate, prevent subsequent induction of sensitization to L-AP4 by quisqualate. This pre-blockade suggests that simple competitive inhibition of extracellular receptor or uptake sites may not be the mechanism by which these compounds attenuate the action of quisqualate in this 'Quis-effect'.
Prostaglandin (PG) D2 binding activity was retained at the highest level in the P2 fraction prepared from porcine temporal cortex with the use of buffer containing mannitol and quinacrine. Then, the activity in this fraction was solubilized with maximal recovery by 10 mM CHAPS. The specific PGD2 binding time-dependently increased and was saturated at around 70 nM. Scatchard plots were fitted to a straight line with a Kd value of 20 nM and Bmax of 120 fmol/mg protein. The binding sites showed high specificity for PGD2. In addition, heat and trypsin treatments remarkably decreased the binding activity. These results suggest that the specific binding protein for PGD2 can be solubilized from these membranes.
Following the iontophoretic deposition of Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin (PHA-L) into the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVL), two-color immunoperoxidase staining was employed to demonstrate contiguity between PHA-L-immunoreactive (PHA-LI) varicose fibers and boutons and brainstem monoaminergic cells. Black-stained PHA-LI cells in the deposition site were found to be located among amber-stained phenylethanolamine N-methyl transferase-immunoreactive (PNMT-I) neurons of the C1 cell group. RVL projections were contiguous with PNMT-I neurons of the C1, C2 and C3 cell groups, with tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive (TH-I) neurons of the A1, A2 and A5 cell groups, and with serotonin-immunoreactive (5-HT-I) neurons of the B1, B2 and B3 cell groups. Preliminary findings of this study have been presented previously (Soc. Neurosci. Abstr., 15 (1989) 451).
As measured using in vivo brain microdialysis in conscious freely-moving rats, chronic treatment (20 mg/kg/day i.p. for 21 days) with the clinically atypical neuroleptic clozapine selectively reduced basal dopamine (DA) release in the nucleus accumbens (Acb) but not in caudate-putamen (CPu). Apomorphine (100 micrograms/kg s.c.) enhanced presynaptic Acb DA release in clozapine-treated rats, but reduced Acb DA release in vehicle-treated rats. These findings provide further evidence that depolarization block of mesolimbic DA neurons projecting to Acb but not of nigrostriatal DA neurons projecting to CPu may underlie clozapine's unusual clinical efficacy and its lack of production of extrapyramidal motoric effects.

Nerve growth factor (NGF) is produced and secreted by astrocytes and fibroblasts, but not by microglia, in a primary non-neuronal cell culture derived from newborn rat brains under a standard culture condition. NGF secretion by astrocytes was highest just after passage and then gradually decreased. There is no significant difference in NGF secretion by astrocytes from five sites of origin tested: cerebral cortex, striatum, hippocampus, septum, and cerebellum. Acidic and basic fibroblast growth factors (aFGF and bFGF) significantly increased NGF secretion by astrocytes. The effect of aFGF was greater than that of bFGF, and the effect of both FGFs was not additive at the maximum concentration. The peak of NGF secretion stimulated by aFGF occurred 3-12 h after the addition of aFGF. On the other hand, the dramatic increase in cell numbers was observed 12-48 h after stimulation, and the morphological change became significant 24 h after aFGF stimulation. NGF synthesized by astrocytes is rapidly secreted into the culture medium and aFGF enhances NGF secretion from the transcription level, because cycloheximide and actinomycin-D completely inhibited NGF secretion by astrocytes in the presence or absence of aFGF. Epidermal growth factor (EGF), interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) also increased NGF secretion by astrocytes to a certain extent. NGF secretion by astrocytes in the presence of a maximum dose of aFGF was enhanced by the addition of IL-1 beta or TNF-alpha, but not EGF. However, platelet-derived growth factor, interleukin-3, and interleukin-6 had no significant effects. FGFs also enhanced NGF secretion by fibroblasts derived from meninges, but not by microglia.
Antibodies directed against gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) were used to immunostain monkey lumbar spinal cord. In laminae I and II, ultrastructural analysis demonstrated GABA-immunoreactive (-IR) vesicle-containing dendrites as well as the more commonly emphasized immunoreactive cell bodies and terminals. Spines were a consistent feature of these dendrites, and some of the spines contained synaptic vesicles. GABA-IR dendrites were observed postsynaptic to large glomerular-type terminals, small-diameter axon terminals and other vesicle-containing dendrites. They were presynaptic to dendritic shafts and spines. These data suggest that GABA-IR dendrites and dendritic spines may play an important role not only as receptive elements but also provide a means for transferring information from neuron to neuron.
L-DOPA stimulated the K(+)-induced [3H]GABA (gamma-aminobutyric acid) release from slices of substantia nigra pars reticulata, entopeduncular nucleus, globus pallidus and caudate-putamen isolated from the ipsilateral side of 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats, but the release from ipsilateral subthalamic slices was not affected. In substantia nigra, L-DOPA stimulation (EC50 = 1 microM) of [3H]GABA release was dose-dependently blocked (IC50 = 0.1 microM for the stimulation caused by 10 microM L-DOPA) by the D1 antagonist SCH 23390, but was not affected by (-)-sulpiride, a D2 antagonist. SCH 23390 also blocked the stimulation in the other nuclei. The DOPA decarboxylase inhibitor NSD-1015 (500 microM) did not prevent the stimulation induced by L-DOPA in all of the studied nuclei. The results suggest that L-DOPA is able to activate D1 receptors located on the terminals of striatal projections via the dopamine formed by a decarboxylation mediated by an NSD-1015-resistant enzyme. Activation of the presynaptic D1 receptors results in stimulation of GABA release.
Future research in the neurosciences can best be understood in the context of NASA's life sciences goals in the near term (1990-95), mid term (1995-2000), and long term (2000 and beyond). Since NASA is planning short-duration Spacelab and International Microgravity Laboratory (IML) flights for many years to come, the acute effects of exposure to microgravity will continue to be of experimental and operational interest in the near term. To this end, major new areas of research will be devoted to ground-based studies of preflight adaptation trainers and their efficacy in preventing or reducing the incidence of space motion sickness. In addition, an extensive series of studies of the vestibular system will be conducted inflight on the IML-1 mission The IML-2 mission will emphasize behavior and performance, biological rhythms, and further vestibular studies. In the mid-term period, Spacelab missions will employ new technology such as magnetic recording techniques in order to evaluate changes in the processing of sensory and motor inputs at the brainstem and cortical level during exposure to microgravity. Two Space Life Sciences (SLS) missions planned for the mid to late 1990's, SLS-4 and SLS-5, will utilize an onboard centrifuge facility that will enable investigators to study the effects of partial gravity on sensory and motor function. In the long term (2000 and beyond), Space Station Freedom and long-duration missions will provide opportunities to explore new options in the neurosciences, such as sensory substitution and augmentation, through the use of physical sensors to provide three-dimensional tactile-visual, tactile-auditory and tactile-somatosensory inputs. The use of this technology will be extremely important in the area of robotic telepresence. Finally, Space Station Freedom and proposed LifeSat missions will provide neuroscientists the opportunity to study the effects of partial gravity and microgravity on neuronal plasticity.

The growing difference with regard to academic and professional accountability between neurosurgeons and neuroscience is alarming. Controlled clinical trials continue to be the most scientifically valid method of evaluating standard treatments against the risks and benefits of medical innovations. Clinical research becomes more rewarding as neurosurgeons gain familiarity with the particulars of the structure and relevance of expertly designed clinical cooperative trials. The basic principles and the significance of biometrical essentials (research hypothesis, comparability, randomized and non-randomized trials, phases of studies and planning steps) are briefly discussed. A guide to the pertinent literature is provided.
Arachidonic acid solution (2 to 15 mg/ml) was infused into the right forebrain white matter of anaesthetised cats over three hours to evaluate its contribution to the genesis and pathophysiology of vasogenic brain oedema. The 0.6 ml infusion increased local white matter water content by a mean of 11.3 ml/100 g tissue but did not increase cortical water content. Histological studies revealed local expansion and trabeculation of the white matter with aggregations of granulocytic neutrophils in the venules and perivenular brain. The adjacent cortical cytoarchitecture was normal. The white matter around the infusion site was stained lightly and over a variable area (15-20 mm2) by intravenously administered Evans Blue dye 2%. Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) adjacent to the frontal infusion did not change significantly during the period of infusion and remained similar to rCBF in the contralateral hemisphere. Following the arachidonic acid infusion regional CBF CO2 reactivity was normal and three was no asymmetry of either cortical somatosensory evoked potential (SEP) or motor evoked potential (MEP) waveforms. The increase in brain water content and changes in the ICP and ICP related biodynamics (pressure-volume index, lumped craniospinal compliance and CSF outflow resistance) were similar to those seen following infusion of 0.6 ml saline. These studies suggest that free intraparenchymal arachidonic acid, at concentrations exceeding those occurring in most neuropathological conditions, can increase the normal brain parenchymal capillary permeability but does not disrupt focal cerebrovascular and electrophysiological function. The clinical implications of these findings are discussed.
Immunohistochemical localization of the Ca(2+)-binding protein parvalbumin (PV) was investigated in the adult human central nervous system (CNS). The antiserum against purified rat skeletal muscle PV specifically recognized certain neuronal populations and their processes. Strongly positive were Purkinje, basket and stellate cells of the cerebellum, cerebral cortical nonpyramidal cells, and neurons in the thalamic reticular and ventrolateral nuclei, subthalamic nucleus, lateral and medial geniculate bodies, vestibular and cochlear nuclei, spinal trigeminal nucleus, cuneate and gracile nuclei, and dorsal nucleus of Clarke. Negative were cortical pyramidal neurons, neurons of the autonomic nerves, and neurons in the caudate nucleus, putamen, dentate nucleus, inferior olive, and substantia gelatinosa. The number and size of PV-immunoreactive neurons were significantly decreased in Alzheimer's disease. However, the decrease was not disease specific.
A 25-year-old homosexual AIDS patient presented with progressive cognitive, motor and behavioral disturbances consistent with HIV encephalopathy. CT scans demonstrated progressive diffuse brain atrophy. Neuropathology showed predominant cortical changes including severe neuronal loss corroborated by morphometry. Only minimal changes were found in the white matter and basal ganglia. Immunocytochemistry for HIV stained occasional microglial cells more markedly in the cerebral cortex. This suggests that HIV infection of the brain may cause predominant cortical nerve cell loss, and that HIV encephalopathy is not necessarily due to white matter lesions.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by an extensive loss of neurons and synapses in the neocortex which correlates strongly with psychometric tests of dementia. To characterize the ultrastructural changes in presynaptic terminals in AD, we studied biopsy material from the frontal cortex. We also examined, at the ultrastructural level, abnormal neurites scattered in the AD neuropil and in the plaque region using sections from autopsy material immunolabeled with anti-synaptophysin. We found that, regardless of amyloid deposits, some presynaptic terminals were distended and contained swollen vesicles and dense bodies. These altered synaptic organelles were similar to those found in dystrophic neurites. The latter structures displayed synaptophysin immunoreactivity, mostly localized to outer membranes of synaptic vesicles and dense bodies. The present study supports the hypothesis of progressive synaptic pathology in AD neocortex and favors the notion that the dystrophic process originates from presynaptic terminals.
Both protein kinases and phosphoprotein phosphatases are important components of signal transduction systems in cells. Recent studies in Alzheimer's disease (AD) have shown abnormal protein phosphorylation in the cortex suggesting an alteration in these enzymes. In the present study, an antibody against CD45 was used to analyze the status of this protein phosphotyrosine phosphatase in AD. We studied and quantified the immunohistochemical and immunochemical distribution of this integral membrane protein in control and AD brain. We found that anti-CD45 immunostained the great majority of microglia, both resting and activated. These cells were Ricinus communis agglutinin I positive and glial fibrillary acidic protein and neurofilament negative. The AD frontal cortex showed a 35% (P less than 0.01) increase in the number of anti-CD45 immunoreactive microglia as compared with controls. These results were consistent with the immunoblot quantification of CD45 immunoreactivity following native gel electrophoresis. In AD, 30% of the CD45-immunostained microglia were clustered in the neuritic plaques (about six per plaque) while the remaining 70% were scattered in the neuropil. The AD hippocampus showed an increase in CD45-immunoreactive microglia in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. At the ultrastructural level, CD45 immunoreactivity was localized exclusively to the plasma membrane of the microglia. The presence of the anti-CD45 immunoreactivity in microglia suggests the possibility that they may require the presence of CD45 as a cell surface receptor which may regulate cell function through modulation of intracellular signaling.
Adrenergic innervation of blood vessels in the rat tibial nerve during degeneration and regeneration was studied using the formaldehyde-induced fluorescence method. The left sciatic nerve was crushed with suture threads to produce a 4-mm length of crushed nerve. At 1, 3, 7, 14, 28, 56 and 84 days after nerve crush, degenerative and regenerative changes in the nerve were verified using light microscopy. At each time point, adrenergic innervation was examined in epi-perineurial whole mount and nerve cross-section preparations. One day after nerve crush, fluorescence of adrenergic nerve fibers in the endoneurium was absent. Fluorescent adrenergic nerve fibers reappeared in the endoneurium at day 56 and reached the control density by 84 days. In the epi-perineurium, adrenergic innervation of small and medium-size arterioles was absent at 3 days, in large arterioles at 7 days. At 56 days, all epi-perineurial arterioles were reinnervated by a faint, sparse adrenergic network, which reached the control density at 84 days. The results suggest that adrenergic innervation in the rat peripheral nerve is lost during nerve degeneration, but recovers when the nerve has regenerated.
The populations of cytochrome c oxidase (CCO)-positive and -negative mitochondria were analyzed in the elongated cells containing occasional multiple nuclei (myotubes) in primary muscle cultures derived from patients with various forms of mitochondrial encephalomyopathies with CCO deficiency. Even in control muscle cultures, CCO-positive (79.7%) and -negative (20.3%) mitochondria were distributed randomly, showing intracellular mosaicism. All mitochondria in all muscle cultures from two patients with clinical characteristics of Leigh's disease exhibited faint to negative CCO activity. In these patients no enzyme activity could be detected in any tissue including intrafusal fibers and fibroblasts in muscle biopsies. In patients with the fatal infantile and the encephalomyopathic forms of CCO deficiency, and myoclonic epilepsy with ragged-red fibers, two different types of myotubes containing mostly CCO-positive mitochondria and only negative mitochondria, respectively, representing intercellular mosaicism, were demonstrated. The intercellular mosaicism in biopsied and cultured muscles in the case of CCO deficiency supports the contention that both CCO-positive and -negative mitochondria coexist in the early myogenic cell and are later randomly segregated during cell division (mitotic segregation), forming two different cells.

When auditory stimuli are presented at rates near 40/s, they evoke a steady-state middle latency response. This results from the super-position of the transient responses evoked by each of the rapidly presented stimuli. The steady-state evoked potentials are most appropriately analyzed using frequency-based techniques. The response is larger for stimuli of higher intensity and of lower tonal frequency. The amplitude of the response varies with the state of arousal of the subject. Sleep results in a decrease in the amplitude to between one third and one half of the amplitude during wakefulness. The response is even further attenuated by general anesthesia. This auditory steady-state evoked potential may therefore be helpful in monitoring the state of arousal of a patient undergoing anesthesia.
If an identical noise is presented to each ear with one ear receiving the noise slightly earlier than the other, the listener perceives the sound as originating from the side of the leading ear. If the interaural time-difference reverses, the subject perceives a shift in the lateralization of the sound to the other ear. This shift in lateralization evokes a late auditory potential with a negative wave at 135 ms and positive waves at 75 and 220 ms. This evoked potential specifically indexes central auditory processing since information about the timing of the auditory stimuli must be compared between the two ears. The response increases in amplitude with increasing interaural time-difference reaching maximum values between 0.3 and 1.5 ms. The response is evoked through acoustic frequencies below 2,000 Hz. In patients with multiple sclerosis the response is often abnormally delayed or small. The response may therefore be helpful in the clinical evaluation of patients with central auditory dysfunction.
It is shown that neural networks with embedded &quot;brainwaves&quot; can cross the gap between the fast parallel unconscious mode of neuroscience and the slow serial conscious mode of psychology. The electromagnetic (EM) component of ultra low frequency (ULF) &quot;brainwaves&quot; appears to enable perfect fitting with narrowed limits of conscious capacity in normal awake states and very extended limits in altered states of consciousness - due to the biophysical relativistic mechanism of dilated subjective time base. An additional complex low-dielectric (epsilon r approximately 1) structure is also necessary in these processes. This structure can be related to a displaced (from the body) part of acupuncture ionic system which can conduct ULF brainwave currents approximately 10(-7) A, inside the conductive channels of the initial ionic concentration approximately 10(-15) cm-3, with a tendency of deterioration during a period of approximately 1 hour. It provides an extraordinary biophysical basis for traditional psychology, including trans-personal experiences down to the ultimate state of thoughtless consciousness. Notions, such as &quot;qi&quot;, &quot;subtle body&quot;, and &quot;causal body&quot;, are physically inevitably associated with ions, displaced (from the body) part of acupuncture ionic structure, and in it embedded an EM component of ULF brainwaves, respectively.

