A circadian clock has no survival value unless biological time is adjusted (entrained) to local time and, for most organisms, the profound changes in the light environment provide the local time signal (zeitgeber). Over 24 h, the amount of light, its spectral composition and its direction change in a systematic way. In theory, all of these features could be used for entrainment, but each would be subject to considerable variation or 'noise'. Despite this high degree of environmental noise, entrained organisms show remarkable precision in their daily activities. Thus, the photosensory task of entrainment is likely to be very complex, but fundamentally similar for all organisms. To test this hypothesis we compare the photoreceptors that mediate entrainment in both flies and mice, and assess their degree of convergence. Although superficially different, both organisms use specialized (employing novel photopigments) and complex (using multiple photopigments) photoreceptor mechanisms. We conclude that this multiplicity of photic inputs, in highly divergent organisms, must relate to the complex sensory task of using light as a zeitgeber.
Recent functional imaging and electrophysiological results indicate that failure to remember experiences can result from a decreased recruitment of encoding processes that build effective memories and an increased recruitment of alternative mechanisms that may impair effective learning.
Antibody reactivity to GA1, GM1, GM2, GD1a, GD1b, and GQ1b gangliosides was measured in 87 patients with polyneuropathy associated with monoclonal gammopathy (60 IgM, 25 IgG, 2 IgA) and 42 control patients with monoclonal gammopathy without polyneuropathy (21 IgM, 21 IgG). Of these 87 patients, 30% had anti-myelin-associated glycoprotein antibodies and 15% had antiganglioside antibodies. Antiganglioside antibodies were significantly associated with demyelinating neuropathy and with IgM monoclonal gammopathy. Anti-GD1b and anti-GQ1b antibodies were significantly associated with predominantly sensory ataxic neuropathy.
Twenty years after a first survey, a follow-up study was performed on the prevalence of MS in Enna (Sicily), southern Italy. The prevalence of definite MS rose from 53 to 120.2 per 100,000 population. The incidence of definite MS for the period 1986 to 1995 was 5.7 per 100,000 per year. The innermost part of Sicily shows an elevated prevalence of MS, second only to Sardinia in the Mediterranean area.
The authors estimated the sample sizes needed for exploratory trials of MS assessing the efficacy of new treatments in reducing the number of new enhancing lesions vs those of interferon-beta or glatiramer acetate. The sample sizes per arm ranged from 868 (effect: 20%) to 94 (effect: 50%) for patients with relapsing-remitting MS and from 2,484 (effect: 20%) to 361 (effect: 50%) for patients with secondary progressive MS. In MS, exploratory trials of new vs available therapies require large numbers of patients, even when MR end-points are used.
Peptide secretion from rat melanotropes is tonically inhibited by a dopaminergic synaptic input that develops after birth and acts through D2 dopamine receptors. In this study, whole-cell Na(+) currents were recorded from melanotropes that were isolated from rat pituitary intermediate lobes at postnatal days 1-20 (P1-P20) and maintained in culture for 5-24 h. Coincident with the development of innervation, melanotropes exhibited a progressive decrease in peak Na(+) current density from P3 to P14. The decrease involved a 50% reduction in maximal Na(+) conductance with no detectable changes in channel gating. Subcutaneous injections of the D2 antagonist sulpiride, applied from P11 to P13, restored melanotrope Na(+) channel activity to pre-innervation levels. Thus, the activation of D2 receptors by the dopaminergic input reduces the functional expression of Na(+) channels in melanotropes.
Previous investigations using relatively large amplitude sensory stimuli or complete removal of sensory input have demonstrated non-linear processing of sensory information for postural control. In the present study, we asked whether a linear range of sensory fusion exists when smaller amplitude stimuli are used. The amplitudes of visual and somatosensory input were simultaneously co-varied within a trial. The postural responses were characterized by analyzing how the Fourier transform of postural sway at the driving frequency varied with sensory movement amplitudes. If the postural control system is linear with constant weighting of sensory inputs, then the pattern of Fourier transforms should be a linear function of movement amplitude. However, in 28 of 58 trials we observed non-linearity in this function. The results clearly show that even at very small amplitudes of sensory change, the nervous system processes multisensory information in a non-linear fashion.
In mitotic cells, telomerase adds repeats of a DNA sequence (TTAGGG) to the ends of chromosomes (telomeres) thereby maintaining their length and preventing cellular senescence. We recently reported that the catalytic subunit of telomerase (TERT) is expressed in neuronal progenitor cells and in early postmitotic neurons in the developing rodent brain. We now report that TERT can protect cultured PC12 cells and embryonic hippocampal neurons against death induced by DNA damage. Overexpression of TERT in PC12 cells increases their resistance to the topoisomerase inhibitors camptothecin and etoposide. Hippocampal neurons in which TERT levels are decreased using antisense technology exhibit increased vulnerability to the DNA-damaging agents. Emerging findings suggest that DNA damage may trigger the death of neurons during brain development and in neurodegenerative disorders. Our data therefore suggest roles for TERT in modulating such cell deaths.
Transgenic mice (G93A) carrying the human amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) linked superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) mutations develop a motoneuron disease resembling human ALS. The affected motoneurons are characterized by the presence of cellular alterations. The antigen recognized by the monoclonal antibody Py is suggested to be associated with the neurofilamentous and microtubular elements of the cytoskeleton of specific neuron populations including the spinal motoneurons. The aim of the present study was to measure changes in the relative Py-immunoreactivity per identified Choline-Acetyl-Transferase (ChAT)-immunoreactive motoneuron during the disease progression. The relative Py-immunoreactivity of identified spinal motoneurons was measured on double stained (Py and ChAT) motoneurons using a digital imaging system coupled to an inverse microscope. A significant decrease of Py-immunoreactivity was already noted in the pre-symptomatic stages of the disease even before the onset of massive motoneuron degeneration. It is concluded that the Py-antibody detects early intracellular abnormalities related to neurodegenerative changes in spinal motoneurons of transgenic SOD1-(G93A) mice.
Human and animal studies support the involvement of neuropeptide Y (NPY) in the pathophysiology of depression. Thus, hippocampal NPY-LI is decreased in genetic models of depression, the Flinders Sensitive Line and Fawn Hooded rats. Maternal &quot;deprivation&quot; has been identified as one risk factor in the development of psychopathology, including depression in adulthood. In view of these findings we hypothesized that brain NPY may also be decreased in an animal model of early life maternal deprivation. To test this hypothesis, male and female Sprague-Dawley rats were maternally separated (MS) 6 h/day or briefly handled from postnatal day 2 (PN2) to PN6 and from PN9 to PN13. At 12 weeks of age the rats were sacrificed, the brains dissected and NPY-LI measured by radioimmunoassay. MS rats had lower NPY-LI in the hippocampus. NPY-LI was also lower in female compared to male rats in hippocampus. Lastly, NPY-LI was increased in the hypothalamus of both male and female MS rats. These findings support the hypothesis that altered NPY in the limbic region is a common denominator of several models of depression and might be a trait marker of vulnerability to affective disorders.
We have developed a feline cerebral hemispherectomy model as an analog to the surgical procedure used in pediatric intractable epilepsy. Previous work with this model has shown a remarkable plasticity associated with an early period of brain development, which we have defined using morphological, cerebral metabolic and behavioral methods. However, the important functional-metabolic bracketing of this period has not yet been performed. We have conducted the present study to answer questions raised by our previous findings using [14C] 2-deoxy-D-glucose autoradiography but only including animals lesioned at day 10 postnatally (P10) or in adulthood. The questions were; (a) is there any age better than P10 for an optimal metabolic outcome?, and (b) can we determine a cutoff point for the beneficial effects of the young age-at-lesion? Twenty-one adult cats were studied. Seven cats served as intact controls, five received a left hemineodecortication at P30, three at P60, three at P90 and three at P120, respectively. Histological analysis indicated that the extent of the lesion was similar between the age groups. Local glucose metabolic rates (LCMR(glc)) were measured in 50 structures bilaterally and used to calculate overall LCMR(glc) for seven grouped sites within the cerebral cortex, thalamus, basal ganglia, mesencephalic tegmentum (and tectum), limbic system and cerebellum. Results indicated a widespread bilateral depression of LCMR(glc) in all age-at-lesion groups. The depression in overall LCMR(glc) across all structures measured in each hemisphere was significant (P&lt;0.05) for the P120 group relative to intacts for both ipsilateral (left) and contralateral (right) sides of the brain. The ipsilateral thalamus was the region most effected by the injury, with significant losses for all age-at-lesion groups. In addition, while there were widespread depressions for all lesion groups, these losses were significant for the P120 group in five groups of structures ipsilaterally (thalamus, basal ganglia, tectum, limbic system, cerebellum) and in three contralaterally (thalamus, tectum, cerebellum). In contrast, significant depressions for the earlier age-at-lesion groups (P30, P60, P90) were found only in the ipsilateral thalamus and bilaterally in the tectum. These results, together with our previous results for the P10 group, indicate a relative sparing of LCMR(glc) after hemineodecortication during the first 60 days of life, with gradually decreasing plasticity thereafter, such that there is some residual sparing at 90 days of age, and afterwards an almost complete loss of metabolic plasticity, with lesions at P120 producing a dismal outcome. These results complement earlier morphological and behavioral studies and support the concept of a 'Critical Maturational Period' of reduced vulnerability to developmental injury.
GABA and glycine are inhibitory neurotransmitters in the olfactory bulb. Recently, gephyrin, a receptor-associated peripheral membrane protein, and collybistin, a gephyrin-binding protein have been shown to be pivotal for the formation of postsynaptic glycine and GABA(A) receptor clusters. In this study, we, thus, examined expressions of gephyrin and collybistin mRNAs in the developing olfactory bulb using in situ hybridization. Although collybistin has two splice variants, we found only collybistin 1 isoform mRNA in the developing olfactory bulb. On the first postnatal day (P1), mitral cells abundantly expressed gephyrin and collybistin 1 mRNAs. However, their expressions were weak or not detected in the other regions. On P3, we first detected both transcripts in granule cells. It was on P7 when periglomerular cells first showed hybridization signals for gephyrin and collybistin mRNAs. The sequence of their expressions was well correlated with that of the maturation of individual neurons, suggesting that gephyrin and collybistin 1 mRNA expressions are induced when neurons arrive at their final destinations and ready for synaptogenesis, and that they are indispensable to make efficient inhibitory synapses in the developing rat olfactory bulb.
Previously, this laboratory demonstrated that the development of serotonin (5-HT) neurons and S100B-immunopositive glia proximal to these neurons is impaired in the offspring of ethanol-fed rats. However, maternal treatment with a 5-HT(1A) agonist, e.g., buspirone or ipsapirone, between gestational days 13 and 20 prevented most of the ethanol-associated changes to developing 5-HT neurons and S100B-immunopositive glia in offspring. The present in vitro studies examined the hypothesis that the protective effects of a 5-HT(1A) agonist on ethanol-exposed, developing 5-HT neurons are mediated in part by astrocyte-produced factors such as S100B. Primary cultures of fetal 5-HT neurons were maintained in conditioned medium (CM) that was obtained from ethanol- and buspirone-treated astrocytes. In order to assess the potential contribution of S100B to the protective effects of buspirone, a mouse monoclonal antibody to S100B was added to the CM to block the biological effects of this protein. These studies demonstrated that CM, obtained from ethanol-treated astrocytes, was unable to support normal development of 5-HT neurons; there was a significant reduction in the number of 5-HT neurons/well. However, CM that was obtained from astrocytes that were co-treated with buspirone and ethanol prevented the ethanol-associated reduction, and the protective effects of buspirone required S100B. We also investigated whether exogenous S100B could protect 5-HT neurons from damage caused by direct exposure to ethanol. Direct exposure of fetal brainstem neurons to ethanol in chemically-defined medium was associated with a significant reduction in the number of 5-HT immunopositive neurons/well. However, exogenous S100B protected 5-HT neurons from the ethanol-associated reduction. Our observations suggest that the protective effects of buspirone on ethanol-exposed, developing 5-HT neurons are mediated in part by the astrocyte-produced factor S100B.
Avian and rodent trigeminal ganglion (TG) neurons share common features in their neurotrophin requirements and axonal projections between the sensory periphery and the brainstem. In rodents, the whisker pad (WP) is a major peripheral target of the infraorbital (IO) nerve component of the TG. The chick IO nerve is much smaller and innervates the maxillary process (MP). In the embryonic WP, IO axons course in fascicles from a caudal to rostral direction and form terminal plexuses around follicles. In the chick, IO axons travel as a thin bundle to the MP and branch out with no specific patterning. We cocultured E15 rat TG with E5-6 chick MP or chick TG with rat WP explants to examine target influences on trigeminal axon growth patterns as visualized with DiI labeling or neurofilament immunohistochemistry. Chick TG axons showed robust growth into WP explants, and the ganglion increased in size. Thick bundles of axons traveled between rows of follicles and formed a distinct pattern as they developed terminal arbors around individual follicles. In contrast, rat TG axon growth was sparse in chick MP explants and the ganglion size reduced over time. Furthermore, rat TG axons did not show any patterning in the chick MP. Similar target-specific growth patterns were observed when TG explants were given a choice between chick MP and rat WP explants. Collectively these results indicate that both the chick and rat TG cells respond to similar target-specific peripheral cues in the establishment of innervation density and patterning in peripheral orofacial targets.

A change in the intracellular Ca(2+) ([Ca(2+)](i)) level induced by hypoxia was detected in rat adrenal slices by use of fura-2/AM. After hypoxic stress, an increase in [Ca(2+)](i) was observed only in the adrenal medulla. This increase was inhibited by nifedipine, but not modified by the cholinergic receptor blockers. The hypoxia-induced increase in [Ca(2+)](i) was observed in all postnatal developmental stages to a similar extent, whereas the nicotine and high K(+) sensitivities increased along with postnatal development. A 10 nM ryanodine enhanced the hypoxia-induced [Ca(2+)](i) increase in adult but not in neonatal rat slices. These results suggest the existence of an oxygen-sensing mechanism in adult rat adrenals even after sympathetic innervation. Hypoxic responses seemed to be similar both in neonate and in adult rat adrenals and were triggered by the influx of Ca(2+) via L-type voltage-sensitive Ca(2+) channels. However, the sustained [Ca(2+)](i) increase caused by hypoxia might depend on postnatal development and be triggered by Ca(2+)-induced Ca(2+) release (CICR).
We examined the effects of hippocampus (Hp) and area parahippocampalis (APH) lesions in pigeons on their ability to perform a battery of tasks including autoshaping, time discrimination, spatial memory, and pattern discrimination. Pigeons with Hp-APH lesions were impaired in the acquisition of an autoshaped response, emitting fewer pecks to the stimulus than control animals. Hp-APH pigeons were also impaired in the acquisition of a radial-arm maze analogue task, and those birds that did learn the task seemed to do so by adopting a stereotypic response strategy. In contrast, Hp-APH lesions had no effect on the ability of the birds to discriminate on the basis of either temporal or visual information. Overall, these studies complement our earlier studies and suggest that the avian hippocampus is important for the processing and retention of spatial rather than non-spatial information.
The Saccharomyces OLE1 gene encodes the Delta-9 fatty acid desaturase, an enzyme that converts saturated fatty acyl-CoAs into cis-Delta-9 unsaturated fatty acids. OLE1 gene expression is regulated by unsaturated fatty acids, which repress transcription and destabilize the OLE1 mRNA. Expression of OLE1 is activated by N-terminal proteolytic fragments of two homologous endoplasmic reticulum membrane proteins, Spt23p and Mga2p. Disruption of either gene does not significantly affect cell growth or fatty acid metabolism; cells that contain null alleles of both genes, however, are unsaturated fatty acid auxotrophs. An analysis of spt23Delta and mga2Delta strains shows that Spt23p and Mga2p differentially activate and regulate OLE1 transcription. In glucose-grown cells, both genes activate transcription to similar levels of activity. Expressed alone, Mga2p induces high levels of OLE1 transcription in cells exposed to cobalt or grown in glycerol-containing medium. Spt23p expressed alone activates OLE1 transcription to levels similar to those in wild type cells. OLE1 expression is strongly repressed by unsaturated fatty acids in spt23Delta or mga2Delta cells, under all growth conditions. To test if OLE1 expression is controlled by fatty acids at the level of membrane proteolysis, soluble N-terminal fragments of Spt23p and Mga2p that lack their membrane-spanning regions (Deltatm) were expressed under the control of their native promoters in spt23Delta;mga2Delta cells. Under those conditions, Mga2pDeltatm acts as a powerful transcription activator that is strongly repressed by unsaturated fatty acids. By comparison, the Spt23pDeltatm polypeptide weakly activates transcription and shows little regulation by unsaturated fatty acids. Co-expression of the two soluble fragments results in activation to levels observed with the Mga2pDeltatm protein alone. The fatty acid repression of transcription under those conditions is attenuated by Spt23Deltatm, however, suggesting that the two proteins may interact to modulate OLE1 gene expression.
GABA(B) receptors play an important role in the excitability of neuronal networks and can influence seizure activity. Here we demonstrate for the first time that kindling, an animal model for human temporal lobe epilepsy, leads to both early and delayed changes of GABA(B) receptor immunoreactivity in hippocampal and cortical areas. We propose that the altered GABA(B) receptor levels might be a compensatory mechanism to reduce excitability induced by recurrent kindled seizures, or alternatively, may promote the development of kindled epilepsy.
Plasma corticosterone (CORT) levels were measured after short periods of sleep deprivation in rats at postnatal days 12, 16, 20, and 24. There was an age-dependent increase in basal CORT levels and sleep deprivation significantly elevated CORT at all ages compared to non-sleep deprived controls. The levels of CORT after sleep deprivation in P16, P20 and P24 animals were similar, resulting in an age-dependent decrease of the magnitude of the response. Sleep deprived P12 animals had lower levels of CORT. However, the observed response to sleep deprivation suggests that sleep loss is a significant stressor at this age. These observations suggest that younger animals are more sensitive to the effects of mild sleep deprivation than older ones.
1-(5-[[(2R,3S)-2-([(1R)-1-[3,5-Bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]ethyl]oxy)-3-(4-fluorophenyl)morpholin-4-yl]methyl]-2H-1,2,3-triazol-4-yl)-N,N-dimethylmethanamine hydrochloride 3 is a high affinity, orally active, h-NK(1) receptor antagonist with a long central duration of action and a solubility in water of &gt;100 mg/mL. The construction of the 5-dimethylaminomethyl 1,2,3-triazol-4-yl unit, which incorporates the solubilizing group of 3, was accomplished by thermal rearrangement of a propargylic azide in the presence of dimethylamine. Compound 3 is highly effective in pre-clinical tests that are relevant to clinical efficacy in emesis and depression.
With the goal of developing potential Alzheimer's pharmacotherapeutics, we have synthesized a series of novel analogues of the potent anticholinesterases phenserine (2) and physostigmine (1). These derivatives contain methyl (3, 4, 6), dimethyl (5, 7, 8, 10, 11) and trimethyl (14) substituents in each position of the phenyl group of the phenylcarbamoyl moieties, and with N-methyl and 6-methyl substituents (12, 13, 31, 33). We also quantified the inhibitory action of these compounds against human acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE). An analysis of the structure/anticholinesterase activity relationship of the described compounds, together with molecular modeling, confirmed the catalytic triad mechanism of the binding of this class of carabamate analogues within AChE and BChE and defined structural requirements for their differential inhibition.
The endocytosis of GABA(A) receptors was investigated in HEK 293 cells expressing receptor alpha1beta2- and alpha1beta2gamma2-subunit combinations. For assessment of internalized receptors by radioimmunoassay or immunofluorescence, a triple c-myc epitope was introduced into the amino terminus of the beta2 subunit. An assay based on biotin inaccessibility was used for alpha1 subunits. GABA(A) alpha1beta2- and alpha1beta2gamma2-subunit receptors were internalized with a t(1/2) of 5.5 min at 37 degrees C. With both subunit combinations, phorbol 12-myristate 3-acetate enhanced internalization by nearly 100%. Treatment of the cells with hypertonic sucrose prevented both the basal and phorbol ester-induced endocytosis of GABA(A) receptors. GF 109203X, an inhibitor of protein kinase C, blocked the stimulation by phorbol ester but had no detectable effect on basal receptor endocytosis. Coexpression with a dominant-negative mutant of dynamin (K44A) led to a 100% enhancement of GABA(A) receptor internalization, while the endocytosis of beta(2)-adrenergic receptors was completely prevented. The results indicate that the endocytosis of GABA(A) alpha1beta2-subunit receptors in HEK cells is constitutive, positively modulated by activation of protein kinase C, and occurs by a mechanism that requires neither the participation of a GABA(A) receptor gamma2 subunit nor a clathrin-mediated pathway.
In a cross-over study we investigated the effects of sildenafil (single doses of 25- or 50mg) on cardiovascular autonomic nervous system (ANS) function assessed by serial recordings of blood pressure, conventional 12-lead electrocardiograms and standardized, time-and frequency domain indices of heart rate variability (HRV) in 21 men with erectile dysfunction. More than half of these patients had multiple comorbidities. Sildenafil induced significant mean reductions from baseline in resting blood pressure, accompanied by a reflex increase in heart rate. There were no significant changes after administration of sildenafil in any other of the ANS function indices. These preliminary findings suggest that sildenafil does not significantly affect cardiac ANS function in patients with erectile dysfunction.
We perceive motion when presented with spatiotemporal changes in contrast (second-order cue). This requires linear signals to be rectified and then summed in temporal order to compute direction. Although both operations have been attributed to cortex, rectification might occur in retina, prior to the ganglion cell. Here we show that the Y ganglion cell does indeed respond to spatiotemporal contrast modulations of a second-order motion stimulus. Responses in an OFF ganglion cell are caused by an EPSP/IPSP sequence evoked from within the dendritic field; in ON cells inhibition is indirect. Inhibitory effects, which are blocked by tetrodotoxin, clamp the response near resting potential thus preventing saturation. Apparently the computation for second-order motion can be initiated by Y cells and completed by cortical cells that sum outputs of multiple Y cells in a directionally selective manner.
RNA granules are a macromolecular structure observed in neurons, where they serve as motile units that translocate mRNAs. Isolated RNA granules are highly enriched in Staufen protein and ultrastructurally contain densely packed clusters of ribosomes. With depolarization, many mRNAs, including those involved in plasticity, rapidly shift from the RNA granule fraction to polysomes. Depolarization reorganizes granules and induces a less compact organization of their ribosomes. RNA granules are not translationally competent, as indicated by the failure to incorporate radioactive amino acids and the absence of eIF4E, 4G, and tRNAs. We concluded that RNA granules are a local storage compartment for mRNAs under translational arrest but are poised for release to actively translated pools. Local release of mRNAs and ribosomes from granules may serve as a macromolecular mechanism linking RNA localization to translation and synaptic plasticity.
The regulation of NMDA receptor (NMDAR) subunit composition and expression during development is thought to control the process of thalamocortical afferent innervation, segregation, and plasticity. Thalamocortical synaptic plasticity in the mouse is dependent on NMDARs containing the NR2B subunit, which are the dominant form during the &quot;critical period&quot; window for plasticity. Near the end of the critical period there is a gradual increase in the contribution of NR2A subunits that happens in parallel to changes in NMDAR-mediated current kinetics. However, no extension of the critical period occurs in NR2A knockout mice, despite the fact that NMDA subunit composition and current kinetics remain immature past the end of the critical period. These data suggest that regulation of NMDAR subunit composition is not essential for closing the critical period plasticity window in mouse somatosensory barrel cortex.
Several recent studies seamlessly blend cognitive, systems, and molecular neuroscience to unravel the temporal organization of memory.
Cerebellar long-term synaptic depression (LTD) is a model system of neuronal information storage that is expressed postsynaptically as a functional down-regulation of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptors. What properties of postsynaptic AMPA receptors are changed? Several lines of evidence argue against changes in AMPA-receptor kinetics. Neither LTD evoked in cultured granule-cell Purkinje cell (PC) pairs nor an LTD-like phenomenon evoked by phorbol ester application was associated with alterations in evoked AMPA receptor-mediated excitatory post-synaptic current (EPSC) or mEPSC kinetics. LTD produced by pairing glutamate pulses with depolarization was not altered by prior application of the desensitization-reducing compound cyclothiazide. Finally, rapid application of glutamate to lifted PCs revealed no significant alterations in AMPA-receptor kinetic properties after LTD induction. When this system was used to apply varying concentrations of glutamate, no alteration in AMPA-receptor glutamate affinity was seen after LTD induction. Finally, peak-scaled nonstationary fluctuation analysis was applied to estimate AMPA-receptor unitary conductance before and after LTD induction in a cultured cell pair, and this analysis too revealed no significant change. These results suggest that cerebellar LTD may be expressed solely as a reduction in the number of functional AMPA receptors in the postsynaptic density [Wang, Y.-T. &amp; Linden, D. J. (2000) Neuron 25, 635-664].
Degeneracy, the ability of elements that are structurally different to perform the same function or yield the same output, is a well known characteristic of the genetic code and immune systems. Here, we point out that degeneracy is a ubiquitous biological property and argue that it is a feature of complexity at genetic, cellular, system, and population levels. Furthermore, it is both necessary for, and an inevitable outcome of, natural selection.
The neuropeptide galanin has been shown to suppress epileptic seizures. In cortical and hippocampal areas, galanin is normally mainly expressed in noradrenergic afferents. We have generated a mouse overexpressing galanin in neurons under the platelet-derived growth factor B promoter. RIA and HPLC analysis revealed up to 8-fold higher levels of galanin in transgenic as compared with wild-type mice. Ectopic galanin overexpression was detected especially in dentate granule cells and hippocampal and cortical pyramidal neurons. Galanin-overexpressing mice showed retardation of seizure generalization during hippocampal kindling, a model for human complex partial epilepsy. The high levels of galanin in mossy fibers found in the transgenic mice were further increased after seizures. Frequency facilitation of field excitatory postsynaptic potentials, a form of short-term synaptic plasticity assessed in hippocampal slices, was reduced in mossy fiber-CA3 cell synapses of galanin-overexpressing mice, indicating suppressed glutamate release. This effect was reversed by application of the putative galanin receptor antagonist M35. These data provide evidence that ectopically overexpressed galanin can be released and dampen the development of epilepsy by means of receptor-mediated action, at least partly by reducing glutamate release from mossy fibers.
The function of G protein-coupled receptors depends on the availability of the appropriate signal transduction proteins in close proximity to the receptor. We have examined and quantified in primate prefrontal cortex the subcellular distribution of two isoforms of protein phosphatase-1 (PP1), PP1 alpha and PP1 gamma 1, which are components of the signal transduction pathway accessed by the D(1) dopamine receptor. Both PP1 alpha- and PP1 gamma 1-labeled puncta are seen in cortex, basal ganglia, hippocampus, and thalamus. Viewed with the electron microscope, both PP1 isoforms are selectively localized to dendritic spines and are found in different percentages of spines; PP1 alpha is present in roughly 70% and PP1 gamma 1 in roughly 40% of dendritic spines. Our analysis indicates that three populations of spines are defined by the distribution of these PP1 isoforms: those that contain both PP1 alpha and PP1 gamma 1, those that contain only PP1 alpha and those that contain neither. The D(1) receptor is present in a subset of the population that contains both PP1 alpha and PP1 gamma 1. The nonhomogeneous distribution of signal transduction proteins in the spines and dendrites of cortical pyramidal cells may help to explain differences in the actions of receptors that nominally use the same signal-transduction pathway.
Spine-like dendritic protrusions (SLDPs) emanating from developing dendrites have been proposed to play an important role in early synaptogenesis. We previously analyzed synaptic termination sites on soma-dendritic membrane of newborn cats and found that corticorubral (CR) axons form synapses preferentially on SLDPs (Saito et al., 1997). In the present study, we examined CR synapses in adult cats to elucidate the maturation process of CR synapses in relation to SLDPs. Electron microscopic observation of serial thin sections of Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin-labeled axons revealed that approximately 60% of CR terminals in adult cats formed synapses on dendritic spines. We also found that CR axons terminate on dendritic spines originating from the intermediate or distal dendrites of rubrospinal cells (more than 200 microm apart from the soma), in contrast to kittens in which CR fibers terminate on SLDPs originating from the proximal dendrites (less than 100 microm apart from the soma) of rubrospinal cells (Saito et al. [1997] J. Neurosci. 17:8792-8803). These results suggest that CR synapses undergo remarkable remodeling after initial termination on SLDP during postnatal development.

Glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchoring of proteins to the plasma membrane is a common mechanism utilized by all eukaryotes including mammals, yeast, and the Trypanosoma brucei parasite. We have previously shown that in mammals phenanthroline (PNT) blocks the attachment of phosphoethanolamine (P-EthN) groups to mannose residues in GPI anchor intermediates, thus preventing the synthesis of mammalian GPI anchors. Therefore, PNT is likely to inhibit GPI-phosphoethanolamine transferases (GPI-PETs). Here we report that in yeast, PNT also inhibits the synthesis of the GPI anchor as well as GPI-anchored proteins. Interestingly, the mechanism of PNT inhibition of GPI synthesis is different from that of YW3548, another putative GPI-PET inhibitor. In contrast to mammals and yeast, the synthesis of GPIs in T. brucei is not affected by PNT. Our results indicate that the T. brucei GPI-PET could be a potential target for antiparasitic drugs.
Previous experiments demonstrated that intracerebroventricular infusion of the protein kinase G inhibitor KT5823 inhibits lordosis behavior in hormone-treated female rats. Present studies show that KT5823 attenuates lordosis in a dose-dependent manner when infused bilaterally into the ventromedial hypothalamus. Thus, activation of protein kinase G in the ventromedial hypothalamus is necessary for the expression of hormone-dependent lordosis behavior in female rats.
Galanin exerts an inhibitory effect on locus coeruleus (LC) neurons via a postsynaptic, as yet unidentified galanin receptor. Using an in vitro intracellular recording technique the effect of two galanin receptor agonists on LC neurons was investigated. Bath application of [Sar(1), D-Ala(12)]gal(1-16)-NH(2) (AR-M961), an agonist both at galanin R1 and R2 (GALR1, GALR2) receptors, evoked a reversible membrane hyperpolarization and inhibition of spike discharge in all LC neurons tested (n=42). The action of AR-M961 was blocked by tetraethylammonium chloride. Hyperpolarizing responses induced by AR-M961 were retained in the presence of tetrodotoxin and high Mg(2+)/low Ca(2+) media. The selective GALR2 agonist Gal(2-11)-NH(2) (AR-M1896) only caused inhibition of spike discharge and a slight hyperpolarization in 26 of 34 LC neurons tested, and was on a molar basis much weaker than AR-M961. These results suggest that it mainly is the GALR1 receptor that mediates hyperpolarization of LC neurons.
In patch-clamp recordings from small-medium diameter dorsal root ganglion neurons in culture, (+/-)-epibatidine (1 microM) was able to inhibit the capsaicin response (IC(50)=0.32 microM) in neurons where there was no detectable direct nicotinic response. Thus, (+/-)-epibatidine may inhibit the vanilloid receptor in a manner that is not dependent upon nicotinic current activation, representing another mechanism by which such ligands could modulate vanilloid receptor signaling.
Hypothalamic neuroendocrine dopaminergic neurons exhibit a diurnal rhythm. Higher level input to these neurons has not been described. In the present study, we identified fibers known to originate in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), which were associated with neuroendocrine dopaminergic neurons. Hypothalamic sections were obtained from either ovariectomized (OVX) female rats or OVX female rats implanted with estrogen and progesterone (E+P). Confocal microscopic images were acquired from the periventricular nucleus, as well as the rostral, dorsomedial, ventrolateral, and caudal regions of the arcuate nucleus. Using antibodies directed against vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) the rate-limiting enzyme in dopamine synthesis, fine VIP fibers in close apposition to TH-immunoreactive (IR) soma and proximal dendrites were revealed. Of the antibodies for the two VIP receptor subtypes (VIP1R and VIP2R), only VIP2R was found on TH-IR neurons. E+P significantly increased the incidence and density of neuroendocrine dopaminergic neurons expressing VIP2R, when compared to OVX animals. E+P did not affect the percent of neuroendocrine dopaminergic neurons associated with VIP fibers. No VIP fibers or VIP2R were found on dopaminergic neurons in the zona incerta. Brain sections triple labeled for Synapsin (a protein localized in synaptic vesicles) VIP, and TH demonstrated that Synapsin was colocalized with VIP fibers that were associated with TH-IR neurons in the arcuate nucleus. Double-label immuno-electron microscopy of hypothalamic sections labeled with antibodies for VIP and TH revealed VIP boutons associated with TH-IR soma and proximal dendrites. These results suggest VIPergic neurons may directly regulate neuroendocrine dopaminergic neuron activity, and ovarian steroids may play a modulatory role.
A position reversal task was used to test the memory-enhancing effects of the arginine vasopressin analog [pGlu4, Cyt6] AVP (4-8) at a dose of 1.5 microg/kg. Rats received either sham operations (SHM), medial prefrontal cortex lesions (PFC), or hippocampal lesions (HIP). The peptide was administered daily, via s.c. injection, 30 min prior to training to half of the animals in each group. As expected, all animals performed equally well on the initial position habit and the first reversal. Overall, it was found that AVP (4-8)-treated animals performed significantly better across trials than saline (SAL)-treated animals. Further analysis showed that PFC animals that received AVP (4-8) (PFC+AVP) performed significantly better (at the level of controls) across trials than saline-treated PFC (PFC+SAL) animals. Sham animals that received the AVP (4-8) analog (SHM+AVP) only showed significant improvement on the last two reversals when compared to the sham saline-treated animals (SHM+SAL), which was likely due to a ceiling effect as performance reached high levels early in the reversal task. Trial 2 analysis across reversals revealed enhanced cognitive abilities in both sham groups (SHM+SAL, SHM+AVP) and the PFC+AVP group, but not in the PFC+SAL, HIP+AVP or the HIP+SAL groups. Hippocampal lesioned animals performed poorly on the task and injections of AVP (4-8) did not improve their performance. It is thus concluded that AVP (4-8) enhanced the acquisition of concept learning (win-stay/loose-shift) in this paradigm in PFC-damaged animals and ameliorated the perseverance habit that is often seen in PFC animals on this task. It is suggested that AVP (4-8) might have an enhancing effect on general cognitive abilities that is not limited to memory processes.
In a previous study we demonstrated that injection (i.p.) of low doses of GM1 ganglioside in mice rapidly attenuates morphine's analgesic effects. This result is consonant with our electrophysiologic studies in nociceptive types of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons in culture, which showed that exogenous GM1 rapidly increased the efficacy of excitatory (Gs-coupled) opioid receptor functions. By contrast, treatment of DRG neurons with the non-toxic B-subunit of cholera toxin (CTX-B) which binds selectively to GM1, blocked the excitatory, but not inhibitory, effects of morphine and other bimodally-acting opioid agonists, thereby resulting in a net increase in inhibitory opioid potency. The present study provides more direct evidence that endogenous GM1 plays a physiologic role in regulating excitatory opioid receptor functions in vivo by demonstrating that cotreatment with remarkably low doses of CTX-B (10 ng/kg, s.c.) selectively blocks hyperalgesic effects elicited by morphine or by a kappa opioid agonist, thereby unmasking potent opioid analgesia. These results are comparable to the effects of cotreatment of mice with morphine plus an ultra-low dose of the opioid antagonist, naltrexone (NTX) which blocks opioid-induced hyperalgesic effects, unmasking potent opioid analgesia. Low-dose NTX selectively blocks excitatory opioid receptors at their recognition site, whereas CTX-B binds to, and interferes with, a putative allosteric GM1 regulatory site on excitatory opioid receptors. Furthermore, chronic cotreatment of mice with morphine plus CTX-B attenuates development of opioid tolerance and physical dependence, as previously shown to occur during cotreatment with low-dose NTX.
Thioperamide, the prototypical histamine H(3) receptor antagonist, acts at the brain histamine H(3) autoreceptor to promote the release and metabolism of neuronal histamine, resulting in higher brain levels of the metabolite tele-methylhistamine. However, unlike thioperamide, several new histamine H(3) receptor antagonists enter the central nervous system (CNS), block brain histamine H(3) receptors and increase histamine release without increasing brain tele-methylhistamine levels. Experiments were performed presently in an attempt to understand these results. Consistent with previous findings, thioperamide significantly increased the content and synthesis rate of tele-methylhistamine in mouse and rat brain. In contrast, the histamine H(3) receptor antagonists GT-2227 (4-(6-cyclohexylhex-cis-3-enyl)imidazole) and clobenpropit did not affect tele-methylhistamine synthesis rate in mouse whole brain. The histamine H(3) receptor ligand GT-2016 (5-cyclohexyl-1-(4-imidazol-4-ylpiperidyl)pentan-1-one) had no effect on tele-methylhistamine levels in any rat brain region and decreased tele-methylhistamine synthesis rates in the mouse whole brain. To examine the possibility that these histamine H(3) receptor antagonists might prevent the methylation of newly released histamine, they were co-administered with thioperamide to determine their effects on the thioperamide-induced stimulation of tele-methylhistamine synthesis. GT-2016 significantly reduced the thioperamide-induced activation of tele-methylhistamine synthesis in mouse whole brain and in several regions of rat brain. Although further clarification is needed, these results suggest that some histamine H(3) receptor antagonists may promote the release of neuronal histamine, but also act to reduce histamine methylation in vivo by an unknown mechanism.
Neural progenitor cells (NPC) can proliferate, differentiate into neurons or glial cells, or undergo a form of programmed cell death called apoptosis. Although death of NPC occurs during development of the nervous system and in the adult, the underlying mechanisms are unknown. Here we show that nitric oxide (NO) can induce death of C17.2 NPC by a mechanism requiring activation of p38 MAP kinase, poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase, and caspase-3. Nitric oxide causes release of cytochrome c from mitochondria, and Bcl-2 protects the neural progenitor cells against nitric oxide-induced death, consistent with a pivotal role for mitochondrial changes in controlling the cell death process. Inhibition of p38 MAP kinase by SB203580 abolished NO-induced cell death, cytochrome c release, and activation of caspase-3, indicating that p38 activation serves as an upstream mediator in the cell death process. The anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2 protected NPC against nitric oxide-induced apoptosis and suppressed activation of p38 MAP kinase. The ability of nitric oxide to trigger death of NPC by a mechanism involving p38 MAP kinase suggests that this diffusible gas may regulate NPC fate in physiological and pathological settings in which NO is produced.
The multiple PSD-95, Dlg, and Zo-1 (PDZ) domain protein, glutamate receptor-interacting protein (GRIP), is involved in the clustering and trafficking of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate receptor by directly binding to the cytoplasmic tail of the receptor's GluR2 subunit. Both the forth and fifth PDZ domains (PDZ4 and PDZ5) of GRIP are required for effective binding to the receptor. Using NMR and circular dichroism spectroscopic techniques, we show that PDZ5 is completely unstructured in solution. Freshly prepared PDZ4 is largely folded, but the domain can spontaneously unfold. Neither PDZ4 nor PDZ5 binds to GluR2 in solution. Unexpectedly, when PDZ4 and PDZ5 are covalently connected (i.e. PDZ45), both PDZ domains become well folded and stable in solution. The covalent linkage of the two PDZ domains is essential for proper folding of the tandem PDZ domains and its effective binding to GluR2. The interdomain chaperoning effect observed in the PDZ domains of GRIP represents a previously uncharacterized function of PDZ domains.
Recent studies have shown independently that presenilin-1 (PS1) null mutants and familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD)-linked mutants should both down-regulate signaling of the unfolded protein response (UPR). However, it is difficult to accept that both mutants possess the same effects on the UPR. Furthermore, contrary to these observations, neither loss of PS1 and PS2 function nor expression of FAD-linked PS1 mutants were reported to have a discernable impact on the UPR. Therefore, re-examination and detailed analyses are needed to clarify the relationship between PS1 function and UPR signaling. Here, we report that PS1/PS2 null and dominant negative PS1 mutants, which are mutated at aspartate residue 257 or 385, did not affect signaling of the UPR. In contrast, FAD-linked PS1 mutants were confirmed to disturb UPR signaling by inhibiting activation of both Ire1alpha and ATF6, both of which are endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress transducers in the UPR. Furthermore, PS1 mutants also disturbed activation of PERK (PKR-like ER kinase), which plays a crucial role in inhibiting translation during ER stress. Taken together, these observations suggested that PS1 mutations could affect signaling pathways controlled by each of the respective ER-stress transducers, possibly through a gain-of-function.
Receptor agonist/antagonist mediated modulation of the excitotoxic effect of AMPA was studied in organotypic hippocampal slice cultures. Treatment of developing cultures for 2 weeks with a subtoxic dose of 2 microM kainate reduced the toxicity of 3 microM AMPA, applied for 48 h with 24 h of recovery, as measured by cellular uptake of the fluorescent dye propidium iodide. In contrast long-term treatment with 0.3 microM of the AMPA/KA antagonist NBQX increased the susceptibility of the cultures to an even lower dose of 2 microM AMPA. The modulatory effects of long-term application of low doses of kainate and NBQX, have implications for the development and use of related drugs that aim to protect against glutamate receptor-mediated disturbances.
We demonstrate, using in situ hybridization, that mRNA for the anti-adhesive molecules tenascin R and J1 in the adult rat spinal motoneurons are down-regulated rapidly as a reaction after a ventral funiculus lesion. Tenascin-R was significantly down-regulated at day 1 and normalized after 3 weeks. Tenascin-J1 declined to its lowest value at day 3 and returned to the initial level after 3 weeks. In adjacent sections, the distribution of macrophages was studied with immuno histochemistry. The density of macrophages reached a maximum 3 days after the injury. Thus, the density of macrophages appeared to be inversely related to the level of tenascin mRNA. These data are compatible with the notion that neuronal tenascins may modulate the adhesion of perincurial inflammatory cells.
We examined whether the extent of sympathetic sprouting in the dorsal root ganglion was a function of the number of injured nerve fibers. We compared two groups of rats. One group was subjected to unilateral superior and inferior caudal trunk transections at the level between the S1 and S2 spinal nerves (S-I group) and the other group was subjected to unilateral superior caudal trunk transection at the same level (S group). Immunohistochemical staining with tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) antibody of the S1 DRG revealed that the degree of TH-immunoreactive fibers was more extensive in the S-I group than in the S group. However, there was no difference in the severity of neuropathic pain behaviors between the two groups. These results suggest that the extent of sympathetic sprouting in the DRG following peripheral nerve injury is proportionally related to the amount of injured nerve fibers, but not related to the degree of neuropathic pain behaviors.
The impact of signal-to-noise (SNR) on fMRI of the amygdala was investigated during a picture encoding task. The SNR value required to observe reliable activation was determined by computer simulations. Blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) sensitivity maps were generated to indicate brain regions with sufficient SNR to test the statistical hypotheses. The results showed that the medial aspect of the amygdala had insufficient SNR to detect a 1% peak BOLD signal change for a t-test comparison in a majority of subjects. None of these subjects showed activation in regions with unacceptable SNR values, indicating a low false positive rate. Furthermore, hemispheric asymmetries in the BOLD sensitivity maps mirrored asymmetries in the activation patterns. Impoverished SNR was also found in the basal forebrain and orbitofrontal cortex. These findings emphasize the importance of considering SNR when interpreting fMRI results in the limbic forebrain.
Phytoestrogens are estrogen-like (plant-derived) molecules that protect against age-related diseases (cardiovascular disease and osteoporosis), hormone-dependent (breast and prostate) cancers and selectively bind estrogen receptors. However, little is known about the influence of phytoestrogens on brain. Using diets containing either high phytoestrogen levels, derived from soy, or very low phytoestrogens we quantified phytoestrogen concentrations of daidzein, genistein and equol in brain. We found that dietary phytoestrogens: significantly decrease body and prostate weights, do not alter brain aromatase levels and significantly change during adulthood the structure of the sexually dimorphic brain region (i.e. anteroventral periventricular nucleus; AVPV) in male, but not in female rats. Since most commercial animal diets contain significant concentrations of phytoestrogens their influence on brain structure should be considered.
Nestin is expressed in central nervous system (CNS) progenitor cells and its expression in mature cells represents transition to a less differentiated cellular state under cellular stress. This study was performed to corroborate the hypothesis that nestin synthesis is induced by depolarization and dependent on N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-receptor activation. Depolarization was induced with application of potassium chloride on the exposed rat cortex and nestin expression was evaluated by immunohistochemistry. Depolarization induced astrocytic nestin expression that was local, or evident in the entire ipsilateral cortex depending on the time of exposure. Nestin expression was NMDA-receptor-dependent since MK-801 treatment abolished the response. Understanding the mechanisms for nestin expression is important since this protein is expressed in reactive and less differentiated CNS cell states and also in neural stem cells. Insights into the control of nestin expression may also provide means for controlling differentiation of CNS cells either post-trauma/ischemia or in transplantation strategies.
Male rats show 4-6 penile erection episodes when put in the presence of an inaccessible receptive female. These non-contact penile erections were reduced dose-dependently by muscimol, a gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA)(A) receptor agonist, when given into the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (0.1, 0.5, 1 and 2 microg). In contrast, baclofen, a GABA(B) receptor agonist (2 microg) was ineffective. Muscimol reduction of non-contact penile erections was not seen when male rats were pretreated with bicuculline methiodide (2 microg) given 5 min before muscimol into the paraventricular nucleus. Since muscimol injected into the paraventricular nucleus also prevents penile erection induced by drugs (e.g. apomorphine, oxytocin or N-methyl-D-aspartic acid), the present results show that an increased GABAergic activity in the paraventricular nucleus can impair the expression of penile erection induced not only by drugs but also by sexual physiological stimuli.
The mammalian suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) contains the main circadian clock. Neuropeptide Y (NPY) that is released from the intergeniculate leaflet of the lateral geniculate body to the SCN, acts in the SCN to advance circadian phase in the subjective day via the NPY Y2 receptor. We used semi-quantitative in situ hybridization to determine the effect of NPY on circadian clock genes, Period 1 (Per1) and Period 2 (Per2), expression in SCN slices. Addition of NPY to the brain slices in the subjective day resulted in reduction of Per1 and Per2 mRNA levels 0.5 and 2 h after treatment. NPY Y1/Y5 and Y2 agonists decreased Per1 within 0.5 h. These results suggest that NPY may induce phase shifts by mechanisms involving or resulting in reduction of Per1 and Per2 mRNA levels.
We studied the underlying neural mechanism of a simple choice behavior between competing alternatives in Drosophila. In a flight simulator, individual flies were conditioned to choose one of two flight paths in response to color and shape cues; after the training, they were tested with contradictory cues. Wild-type flies made a discrete choice that switched from one alternative to the other as the relative salience of color and shape cues gradually changed, but this ability was greatly diminished in mutant (mbm1) flies with miniature mushroom bodies or with hydroxyurea ablation of mushroom bodies. Thus, Drosophila genetics may be useful for elucidating the neural basis of choice behavior.
To facilitate the characterization of compounds that have positive growth factor mimetic effects on neuritogenesis, we have implemented a high-throughput functional assay which measures, in a multiparametric manner, the proliferation and differentiation characteristics of cells in a microtiter plate. Conditions were established using chronic incubation of SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells with retinoic acid (RA) and/or nerve growth factor (NGF) in which discernible alterations in proliferation, growth, and differentiation of cells were induced. SH-SY5Y cells were fixed and labeled by immunocytochemistry, and an automated image acquisition and analysis package on Cellomics ArrayScanII was utilized to quantify the effects of these treatments on cell characteristics. NGF and retinoic acid were found to increase multiple parameters of SH-SY5Y differentiation, including an increased proportion of cells having neurites and increased extent of branching. However, marked differences in the effects of these compounds on SH-SY5Y growth and differentiation were also detected: whereas NGF increased cell number, RA treatment decreased cell number, and RA but not NGF caused significant elongation of neurites. This study quantifies and characterizes the effects of differentiating and proliferating agents on a human-derived neuroblastoma cell line. The high-content, rapid-throughput nature of this assay makes it ideal for functional identification and characterization of compounds regulating cell behavior.

The existence of multiple 5-HT autoreceptors in the central nervous system is now firmly established and they have been pharmacologically identified as belonging to the 5-HT(1A), 5-HT(1B), and 5-HT(1D) receptor subtypes. In addition, 5-HT(1F), 5-HT(5A), and 5-HT(7) receptors remain as potential candidates for additional autoreceptors. The emergence of selective ligands, such as SB-224289 (5-HT(1B) receptor antagonist), BRL 15572 (5-HT(1D) receptor antagonist), GR 127935 (a mixed 5-HT(1B/1D) receptor antagonist), LY 334370 (5-HT(1F) receptor agonist), and SB-269970 (5-HT(7) receptor antagonist), has aided the characterisation of 5-HT autoreceptors and has highlighted the complexity of mechanisms which modulate the release of 5-HT.
Patients with prefrontal cortex lesions are impaired on a variety of planning and problem-solving tasks. We examined the problem-solving performance of 27 patients with focal frontal lobe damage on the Water Jug task. The Water Jug task has never been used to assess problem-solving ability in neurologically impaired patients nor in functional neuroimaging studies, despite sharing structural similarities with other tasks sensitive to prefrontal cortex function, including the Tower of Hanoi, Tower of London, and Wisconsin Card Sorting Task (WCST). Our results demonstrate that the Water Jug task invokes a unique combination of problem-solving and planning strategies, allowing a more precise identification of frontal lobe lesion patients' cognitive deficits. All participants (patients and matched controls) appear to be utilizing a hill-climbing strategy that does not require sophisticated planning; however, frontal lobe lesion patients (FLLs) struggled to make required &quot;counterintuitive moves&quot; not predicted by this strategy and found within both solution paths. Left and bilateral FLLs were more impaired than right FLLs. Analysis of the left hemisphere brain regions encompassed by the lesions of these patients found that poor performance was linked to left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex damage. We propose that patients with left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex lesions have difficulty making a decision requiring the conceptual comparison of nonverbal stimuli, manipulation of select representations of potential solutions, and are unable to appropriately inhibit a response in keeping with the final goal.
Myelin basic protein-CFA-induced experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) in Lewis rats is an acute monophasic disease from which animals recover. In this model, spontaneous relapses do not occur and rats develop a resistance to further active reinduction of disease. Previously, we reported that oral administration of the NO synthase inhibitor N-methyl-L-arginine acetate (L-NMA) to recovered rats precipitated a second episode of disease in 100% of animals. Further studies now show that this second clinical episode is actually a chronic relapsing disease that persists for months. This occurs only in rats that have recovered from actively induced EAE and not in rats recovered from passively induced EAE, suggesting the need for a peripheral Ag depot to induce secondary disease. We have also determined that clinical signs of EAE in L-NMA-treated recovered rats do not appear until L-NMA treatment has stopped. This is despite the fact that, at the same time point, CNS inflammatory lesions in symptomless animals receiving L-NMA are qualitatively and quantitatively similar to those with severe disease symptoms from whom L-NMA treatment has been withdrawn. The latter animals have significantly higher levels of reactive nitrogen intermediates in the cerebrospinal fluid than the former group. This study examines the mechanism of reinduction of disease by L-NMA treatment, and the findings suggest a dual role for NO in regulation of pathology in EAE that is dependent on site and timing of NO production.
More than fifty FMRFamide-like neuropeptides have been identified in nematodes. We addressed the role of a subset of these in the control of nematode feeding by electrophysiological recording of the activity of C. elegans pharynx. AF1 (KNEFIRFamide), AF2 (KHEYLRFamide), AF8 (KSAYMRFamide), and GAKFIRFamide (encoded by the C. elegans genes flp-8, flp-14, flp-6, and flp-5, respectively) increased pharyngeal action potential frequency, in a manner similar to 5-HT. In contrast, SDPNFLRFamide, SADPNFLRFamide, SAEPFGTMRFamide, KPSVRFamide, APEASPFIRFamide, and AQTVRFamide (encoded by the C. elegans genes flp-1; flp-1; flp-3; flp-9; flp-13, and flp-16, respectively) inhibited the pharynx in a manner similar to octopamine. Only three of the neuropeptides had potent effects at low nanomolar concentrations, consistent with a physiological role in pharyngeal regulation. Therefore, we assessed whether these three peptides mediated their actions either directly on the pharynx or indirectly via the neural circuit controlling its activity by comparing actions between wild-type and mutants with deficits in synaptic signaling. Our data support the conclusion that AF1 and SAEPFGTMRFamide regulate the activity of the pharynx indirectly, whereas APEASPFIRFamide exerts its action directly. These results are in agreement with the expression pattern for the genes encoding the neuropeptides (Kim and Li, 1999) as both flp-8 and flp-3 are expressed in extrapharyngeal neurons, whereas flp-13 is expressed in I5, a neuron with synaptic output to the pharyngeal muscle. These results provide the first, direct, functional information on the action of neuropeptides in C. elegans. Furthermore, we provide evidence for a putative inhibitory peptidergic synapse, which is likely to have a role in the control of feeding.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) is an effective treatment for the motor symptoms of advanced Parkinson's disease (PD). The aim of this study was to assess the effect of the bilateral surgical procedure and STN DBS on the neuropsychological functions. Twenty Parkinson's disease patients underwent a neuropsychological assessment before and 6 months after surgery in four different conditions: medication on (with levodopa) and medication off (without levodopa) during the preoperative period, medication on/stimulation on (levodopa plus stimulators switched on) and medication off/stimulation on (stimulators switched on without levodopa) during the postoperative period. We did not find any significant difference in the four conditions for all the neuropsychological tests, confirming the lack of an overall cognitive decline after surgery. From a neuropsychological point of view, these results seem to indicate that bilateral STN DBS is a safe treatment for advanced PD.
The present study aimed to characterize a functional role for group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) in the nucleus accumbens and the capacity of repeated cocaine to elicit long-term changes in group I mGluR function. Reverse dialysis of the group I agonist (RS)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG) into the nucleus accumbens resulted in an increase in extracellular glutamate levels that was mediated by the mGluR1 subtype and depended on voltage-dependent Na(+) and Ca(2+) conductance. At 3 weeks after discontinuing 1 week of daily cocaine injections, the capacity of DHPG to induce glutamate release was markedly reduced. Similarly, DHPG induced an mGluR1-dependent increase in locomotor activity after microinjection into the nucleus accumbens that was significantly blunted 3 weeks after repeated cocaine administration. Signaling through group I mGluRs is regulated, in part, by Homer proteins, and it was found that the blunting of group I mGluR-induced glutamate release and motor activity after repeated cocaine was associated with a reduction in Homer1b/c protein that was selective for the medial nucleus accumbens. These data show that repeated cocaine produces an enduring inhibition of the neurochemical and behavioral consequences of stimulating mGluR1 that is accompanied by changes in the mGluR scaffolding apparatus.
Multi-electrode extracellular recordings in area 17 of awake behaving ferrets were conducted to characterize the pattern of spontaneous activity in the developing visual cortex before eye opening. A linear array of 16 microwire electrodes was used to record extracellular neuronal activity across a 3.2 mm strip of visual cortex between postnatal days 22 and 28. Whereas synchronous bursts of activity were observed at all recording sites, cross-correlation analysis revealed that the timing of spike activity at all electrodes was not precisely correlated. Correlated activity between cortical sites exhibited a patchy organization having long-range components. Long-range correlated activity was observed between cortical patches that were separated by a mean distance of 1 mm. The spatial pattern of correlated activity persisted during transient lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) activity block, indicating that long-range correlated activity is generated by intrinsic circuits within the cortex, independent of LGN input activity. These results demonstrate an innate patchy organization of correlated spontaneous activity within the cortex during the early development of cortical functional and anatomical organization.
Repair of specific neuronal circuitry in the neocortex may be possible via neural precursor transplantation or manipulation of endogenous precursors in situ. These approaches will almost certainly require a detailed understanding of the mechanisms that control survival and differentiation of specific neuronal lineages. Such analysis has been hampered by the overwhelming diversity of neuronal types intermixed in neocortex and the inability to isolate individual lineages. To elucidate stage-specific controls over the survival of individual lineages of cortical neurons, we purified immature callosal projection neurons (CPN) at distinct stages of development from embryonic and postnatal mouse cortex by retrograde fluorescence labeling, followed by fluorescence-activated cell sorting. Purified CPN survive well in culture, acquire stage-specific projection neuron morphologies, and express appropriate neurotransmitters and growth factor receptors. Purified CPN are dependent on exogenous trophic support for survival in a stage-specific manner. Survival of postnatal day 2 (P2) to P3 and P6-P7 CPN is promoted by overlapping but distinct sets of neurotrophic factors, whereas embryonic day 19 CPN show less specificity of dependence on peptide factors. These studies demonstrate for the first time the stage-specific control by peptide growth factors over the survival of a specific cortical neuronal lineage. Such information may be critical for the future goal of directed differentiation of transplanted or endogenous precursors toward cellular repair of complex cortical circuitry.
During CNS development, cell migrations play an important role, adding to the cellular complexity of different regions. Earlier studies have shown a robust migration of cells from basal forebrain into the overlying dorsal forebrain during the embryonic period. These immigrant cells include GABAergic neurons that populate the cerebral cortex and hippocampus. In this study we have examined the fate of other basal forebrain cells that migrate into the dorsal forebrain, identifying basal cells using an antibody that recognizes both early (dlx1/2) and late (dlx 5/6) members of the dlx homeobox gene family. We found that a subpopulation of cortical and hippocampal oligodendrocytes are also ventral-derived. We traced the origin of these cells to basal multipotent stem cells capable of generating both GABAergic neurons and oligodendrocytes. A clonal analysis showed that basal forebrain stem cells produce significantly more GABAergic neurons than dorsal forebrain stem cells from the same embryonic age. Moreover, stem cell clones from basal forebrain are significantly more likely to contain both GABAergic neurons and oligodendrocytes than those from dorsal. This indicates that forebrain stem cells are regionally specified. Whereas dlx expression was not detected within basal stem cells growing in culture, these cells produced dlx-positive products that are capable of migration. These data indicate that the developing cerebral cortex incorporates both neuronal and glial products of basal forebrain and suggest that these immigrant cells arise from a common progenitor, a dlx-negative basal forebrain stem cell.
The localization and functions of kainate receptors (KARs) in the CNS are still poorly known. In the striatum, GluR6/7 and KA2 immunoreactivity is expressed presynaptically in a subpopulation of glutamatergic terminals and postsynaptically in dendrites and spines. The goal of this study was to further characterize the subcellular and subsynaptic localization of kainate receptor subunits in the monkey striatum. Immunoperoxidase data reveal that the relative abundance of GluR6/7- and KA2-immunoreactive terminals is homogeneous throughout the striatum irrespective of the differential degree of striatal degeneration in Huntington's disease. Pre-embedding and post-embedding immunogold data indicate that &gt;70% of the presynaptic or postsynaptic GluR6/7 and KA2 labeling is expressed intracellularly. In material stained with the post-embedding immunogold method, approximately one-third of plasma membrane-bound gold particles labeling in axon terminals and spines is associated with asymmetric synapses, thereby representing synaptic kainate receptor subunits. On the other hand, &gt;60% of the plasma-membrane bound labeling is extrasynaptic. Both GluR6/7 and KA2 labeling in glutamatergic terminals often occurs in clusters of gold particles along the membrane of large vesicular organelles located at various distances from the presynaptic grid. Anterograde labeling from the primary motor cortex or the centromedian thalamic nucleus indicate that both corticostriatal and thalamostriatal terminals express presynaptic GluR6/7 and KA2 immunoreactivity in the postcommissural putamen. In conclusion, these data demonstrate that kainate receptors in the striatum display a pattern of subcellular distribution different from other ionotropic glutamate receptor subtypes, but consistent with their metabotropic-like functions recently shown in the hippocampus.
The possibility that R-type calcium channels contribute to fast glutamatergic transmission in the hippocampus has been assessed using low concentrations of NiCl(2) and the peptide toxin SNX 482, a selective antagonist of the pore-forming alpha(1E) subunit of R-type calcium channel. EPSPs or EPSCs were recorded in the whole-cell configuration of the patch-clamp technique mainly from CA3 hippocampal neurons. Effects of both NiCl(2) and SNX 482 were tested on large (composite) EPSCs evoked by mossy and associative-commissural fiber stimulation. NiCl(2) effects were also tested on minimal EPSPs-EPSCs. Both substances reduced the amplitude of EPSPs-EPSCs. This effect was associated with an increase in the number of response failures of minimal EPSPs-EPSCs, an enhancement of the paired-pulse facilitation ratios of both minimal and composite EPSCs, and a reduction of the inverse squared coefficient of variation (CV(-2)). The reduction of CV(-2) was positively correlated with the decrease in EPSC amplitude. The inhibitory effect of NiCl(2) was occluded by SNX 482 but not by omega-conotoxin-MVIIC, a broad-spectrum antagonist thought to interact with N- and P/Q-type calcium channels, supporting a specific action of low concentrations of NiCl(2) on R-type calcium channels. Together, these observations indicate that both NiCl(2) and SNX 482 act at presynaptic sites and block R-type calcium channels with pharmacological properties similar to those encoded by the alpha(1E) gene. These channels are involved in fast glutamatergic transmission at hippocampal synapses.
Plateau potentials are prolonged membrane depolarizations that are observed in hippocampal pyramidal neurons when spiking and Ca(2+) entry occur in combination with muscarinic receptor activation. In this study, we used whole-cell voltage clamping to study the current underlying the plateau potential and to determine the cellular signaling pathways contributing to this current. When combined with muscarinic stimulation, depolarizing command potentials that evoked Ca(2+) influx elicited a prolonged tail current (I(tail)) that had an extrapolated reversal potential of -20 mV. I(tail) was not observed when intracellular Ca(2+) levels were chelated with 10 mm intracellular BAPTA, and I(tail) was reversibly depressed in low external sodium. When I(tail) was evoked at intervals &gt;3 min, current amplitudes were stable for up to 1 hr. However, at shorter intervals, I(tail) was refractory, with a time constant of recovery of 43.5 sec. The inhibitors of soluble guanylate cyclase 1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazolo[4,3-a]quinoxalin-1-one and 6-anilino-5,8-quinolinequinone depressed I(tail) and zaprinast, which blocks cGMP-specific phosphodiesterase, enhanced I(tail), suggesting that a component of I(tail) was activated by cGMP. The inhibitors of cyclic nucleotide-gated (CNG) channels l-cis-diltiazem and 2',4'-dichlorobenzamil reversibly depressed I(tail). However, protein kinase G inhibition had no effect. Therefore, these results indicate that a component of I(tail) is attributable to activation of CNG channels. We conclude that Ca(2+) influx when combined with muscarinic receptor activation activates soluble guanylate cyclase and increases cGMP levels. The increased cGMP activates CNG channels and leads to prolonged depolarization. The cation conductance of the CNG channel contributes to the prolonged depolarization of the plateau potential.
The recently cloned vanilloid receptor subtype 1 (VR1) is a ligand-gated channel that is activated by capsaicin, protons, and heat. We have attempted to develop a dominant negative isoform by targeting several mutations of VR1 at highly conserved amino acids or at residues of potential functional importance and expressing the mutants in Chinese hamster ovary cells. Mutation of three highly conserved amino acid residues in the putative sixth transmembrane domain disrupts activation of the VR1 receptor by both capsaicin and resiniferatoxin. The vanilloid binding site in this mutant is intact, although the affinity for [(3)H]resiniferatoxin (RTX) is diminished by nearly 40-fold. Interestingly, this mutant retains a significant but diminished response to protons, supporting the existence of multiple gating mechanisms for different stimuli. The mutant appears to function by interfering with the gating induced by vanilloids rather than the expression level or permeability of the receptor. In addition, this mutant was found to function as a strong dominant negative mutation when coexpressed with wild-type VR1, providing functional evidence that the VR1 receptor forms a multimeric complex. Analysis of both current density and [(3)H]RTX affinity in cells cotransfected with different ratios of wild-type and mutant VR1 is consistent with tetrameric stoichiometry for the native capsaicin receptor.
Reagents capable of rapid and efficient release of neuroactive amino acids (L-glutamate, GABA and glycine) upon flash photolysis of thermally stable, inert precursors have been elusive. 7-Nitroindolinyl (NI)-caged and 4-methoxy-7-nitroindolinyl (MNI)-caged compounds that fulfil these criteria are evaluated here. These caged precursors are highly resistant to hydrolysis. Photolysis is fast (half time&lt; or =0.26 ms) and the conversion achieved with a xenon flashlamp is about 15% for the NI-caged L-glutamate and about 35% for the MNI-caged L-glutamate. A procedure is described for calibration of photolysis in a microscope-based experimental apparatus. NI-caged L-glutamate itself showed no agonist or antagonist effects on AMPA and NMDA receptors in cultured neurones, and had no effect on climbing fibre activation of Purkinje neurones. A control compound with identical photochemistry that generated an inert phosphate upon photolysis was used to confirm that the intermediates and by-products of photolysis have no deleterious effects. MNI-caged L-glutamate is as stable and fast as NI-caged L-glutamate and similarly inert at glutamate receptors, but about 2.5 times more efficient. However, NI-caged GABA is an antagonist at GABA(A) receptors and NI-glycine an antagonist at glycine receptors. The results show the utility and limitations of these fast and stable caged neurotransmitters in the investigation of synaptic processes.
A simple technique for local chemical sympathectomy of peripheral tissues is described using guanethidine. Multiple microinjections of guanethidine were made into inguinal or epididymal white adipose tissue (IWAT and EWAT) pads or spleens of hamsters. Guanethidine virtually abolished the sympathetic innervation of both EWAT and IWAT, as measured by the absence of significant norepinephrine (NE) tissue content two weeks later and as suggested by the two-fold increase in IWAT mass characteristic of surgically induced WAT denervation. These measures were not affected in the contralateral pads given equivolumetric injections of saline. Guanethidine injections into the spleen lead to a functional sympathectomy, as indicated by significant depletions of NE content. Because guanethidine treatment did not decrease body mass, induce ptosis, or spread to closely associated adjacent tissue (contralateral EWAT pad), no chemical-induced malaise or global sympathetic denervation was suggested. Guanethidine was more effective than two other local sympathectomy treatments, injections of the sympathetic neurotoxin anti-dopamine-beta-hydroxylase saporin or surgical denervation, in decreasing IWAT NE content and increasing IWAT pad mass. Collectively, these results suggest that locally applied, chemical sympathectomy with guanethidine provides an effective, restricted method for sympathectomizing WAT, spleen and likely other peripheral tissues.
Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) is a potent mitogen for mature hepatocytes, and it has multi-functional effects in a variety of cells in various organs. HGF stimulates DNA synthesis and promotes cell migration and morphogenesis in several cell types including the olfactory system. To characterize the potential mitogenic activity of HGF that might contribute to olfactory ensheathing cell (OEC) proliferation, we tested the ability of HGF to stimulate OEC division in vitro. OECs were obtained from adult rat olfactory bulbs and cultured in serum-free medium, and were identified by double immunostaining for p75 and S-100 antibodies. DNA synthesis assayed by pulsing BrdU for 24 hr showed that HGF at the concentration of 5-100 ng/ml elicited a 5-10-fold increase of OEC proliferation. By immunocytochemical analysis, we demonstrated that c-Met-immunoreactivity was present in cultured OECs, and c-Met anti-serum significantly sequestered the activity of HGF on OECs proliferation, suggesting that HGF-induced proliferation of OECs is mediated by the c-Met receptor. The mitogenic activity of HGF was potentiated by addition of heregulin (HRG), but inhibited by addition of forskolin. These results demonstrate that HGF is a novel mitogen for rat OECs in vitro, and HGF/c-Met system is involved in regulating OECs growth and development.
The aim of this work was to investigate whether excitotoxicity induced by overstimulation of different ionotropic glutamate receptors could trigger different intracellular signaling cascades. Cultured chick neuronal retina cells, essentially amacrine-like, were particularly sensitive to the toxicity induced by non-NMDA glutamate receptor agonists. One hour stimulation with 100 microM kainate induced a reduction of cell viability of about 44%, as assessed by the MTT test 24 hr after stimulation. Kainate-induced toxicity was mediated through AMPA receptors. Glutamate (100 microM, 1 hr) reduced cell viability by 26%, essentially acting through N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. Five hours after stimulation, neuronal retina cells had an apoptotic-like nuclear morphology. In retinal neurons, the excitotoxic stimulation, with either glutamate or kainate, induced a calcium-dependent enhancement of the DNA-binding activity of the activating protein-1 (AP-1) transcription factor, which was maximal 2 hr after stimulation. Glutamate induced a greater increase in the AP-1 DNA-binding activity than did kainate. Supershift assays using antibodies directed against different members of the Fos and Jun protein families showed that the AP-1 complex in retinal neurons includes proteins of the Fos family, namely, Fra-2, c-Jun, and Jun D. The DNA-binding activity of the nuclear factor-kappaB transcription factor was not significantly changed upon excitotoxic stimulation with any agonist. Stimulation of glutamate receptors with 100 microM kainate or 100 microM glutamate for 2 min was sufficient to induce the activation of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK). Inhibition of the ERK activation with the MEK inhibitors U 0126 and PD 98059 increased the toxicity induced by kainate but was without effect on the toxicity induced by glutamate. These results indicate that, although stimulation with both glutamate receptor agonists increased ERK phosphorylation, only kainate-induced ERK activation correlates with the activation of a survival signaling pathway. Our results suggest that, in chick embryo retinal neurons, the signaling pathways that mediate excitotoxic cell death and neuroprotection are stimulus specific.
The main objective of the present study was to develop an alternative singly-transgenic (tg) hAPP model where amyloid deposition will occur at an earlier age. For this purpose, we generated lines of tg mice expressing hAPP751 cDNA containing the London (V717I) and Swedish (K670M/N671L) mutations under the regulatory control of the murine (m)Thy-1 gene (mThy1-hAPP751). In the brains of the highest (line 41) and intermediate (lines 16 and 11) expressers, high levels of hAPP expression were found in neurons in layers 4-5 of the neocortex, hippocampal CA1 and olfactory bulb. As early as 3-4 months of age, line 41 mice developed mature plaques in the frontal cortex, whereas at 5-7 months plaque formation extended to the hippocampus, thalamus and olfactory region. Ultrastructural and double-immunolabeling analysis confirmed that most plaques were mature and contained dystrophic neurites immunoreactive with antibodies against APP, synaptophysin, neurofilament and tau. In addition, a decrease in the number of synaptophysin-immunoreactive terminals was most prominent in the frontal cortex of mice from line 41. Mice from line 11 developed diffuse amyloid deposits at 11 months of age, whereas mice from line 16 did not show evidence of amyloid deposition. Analysis of Abeta by ELISA showed that levels of Abeta(1-40) were higher in mice that did not show any amyloid deposits (line 16), whereas Abeta(1-42) was the predominant species in tg animals from the lines showing plaque formation (lines 41 and 11). Taken together this study indicates that early onset plaque formation depends on levels of Abeta(1-42).
The mechanism for a large loss of neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) in brains with neurodegenerative diseases remains unclear. Based on our previous results of [(3)H]epibatidine binding influenced by lipid peroxidation, we suggest that nAChR deficit in neurodegenerative diseases might be related to the neurons attacked by free radicals. To further understand how free radicals influence the expression of nAChRs, we detected [(125)I]alpha-bungarotoxin binding, nAChR subunit protein and mRNA during the early stage of damage by oxidative stress in PC12 cells in the present study. The results showed that free radical insult (FeSO(4)) within the concentration range (1 -100 microM) used in the study induced dose-dependent increases in lipid peroxidation and toxicity to PC12 cells, but did not result in apoptosis or necrosis. Significant reductions in [(125)I]alpha-bungarotoxin binding site, protein level for the alpha3 and alpha7 subunits, and mRNA level for the alpha7 subunit were observed in PC12 cells treated by FeSO(4) at the concentrations without inducing cell death compared to control. Pretreatment of cultural cells with antioxidant such as Vitamin E and reduced glutathione prevented the inhibiting effect of free radicals on [(125)I]alpha-bungarotoxin and [(3)H]epibatidine bindings. The present results further demonstrate that oxidative stress might reduce the number of [(125)I]alpha-bungarotoxin binding site and selectively suppress the expression of the nAChR subunits at protein and mRNA levels during the early stages of damage in PC12 cells.
1. The aim of the study was to elucidate the mechanisms underlying the depressant effect of the group I/II metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) agonist 1S,3R-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (1S,3R-ACPD) on parallel fibre (PF) to Purkinje cell (PC) synaptic transmission. Experiments were performed in rat cerebellar slices using the whole-cell patch-clamp technique and fluorometric measurements of presynaptic calcium variation 2. Analysis of short-term plasticity, fluctuation of EPSC amplitude and responses of PCs to exogenous glutamate showed that depression caused by 1S,3R-ACPD is presynaptic. 3. The effects of 1S,3R-ACPD were blocked and reproduced by group I mGluR antagonists and agonists, respectively. 4. These effects remained unchanged in mGluR5 knock-out mice and disappeared in mGluR1 knock-out mice. 5. 1S,3R-ACPD increased calcium concentration in PFs. This effect was abolished by AMPA/kainate (but not NMDA) receptor antagonists and mimicked by focally applied agonists of these receptors. Thus, it is not directly due to mGluRs but to presynaptic AMPA/kainate receptors indirectly activated by 1S,3R-ACPD. 6. Frequencies of spontaneous and evoked unitary EPSCs recorded in PCs were respectively increased and decreased by mGluR1 agonists. Similar results were obtained when mGluR1s were activated by tetanic stimulation of PFs. 7. Injecting 30 mM BAPTA into PCs blocked the effects of 1S,3R-ACPD on unitary EPSCs. 8. In conclusion, 1S,3R-ACPD reduces evoked release of glutamate from PFs. This effect is triggered by postsynaptic mGluR1s and thus implies that a retrograde messenger, probably glutamate, opens presynaptic AMPA/kainate receptors and consequently increases spontaneous release of glutamate from PF terminals and decreases evoked synaptic transmission.
The adult central nervous system (CNS) of higher vertebrates displays a limited ability for self repair after traumatic injuries, leading to lasting functional deficits [1]. Small injuries can result in transient impairments, but the mechanisms of recovery are poorly understood [2]. At the cortical level, rearrangements of the sensory and motor representation maps often parallel recovery [3,4]. In the sensory system, studies have shown that cortical and subcortical mechanisms contribute to map rearrangements [5,6], but for the motor system the situation is less clear. Here we show that large-scale structural changes in the spared rostral part of the spinal cord occur simultaneously with shifts of a hind-limb motor cortex representation after traumatic spinal-cord injury. By intracortical microstimulation, we defined a cortical area that consistently and exclusively yielded hind-limb muscle responses in normal adult rats. Four weeks after a bilateral transsection of the corticospinal tract (CST) in the lower thoracic spinal cord, we again stimulated this cortical field and found forelimb, whisker, and trunk responses, thus demonstrating reorganization of the cortical motor representation. Anterograde tracing of corticospinal fibers originating from this former hind-limb area revealed that sprouting greatly increased the normally small number of collaterals that lead into the cervical spinal cord rostral to the lesion. We conclude that the corticospinal motor system has greater potential to adapt structurally to lesions than was previously believed and hypothesize that this spontaneous growth response is the basis for the observed motor representation rearrangements and contributes to functional recovery after incomplete lesions.
The atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) gene may underlie stroke susceptibility and sensitivity to cerebral ischemia in an animal model of stroke. The authors investigate its role in humans by genotyping a polymorphism (G664A) in 436 patients with ischemic cerebrovascular disease and 295 community control subjects. The frequency of this variant was similar in both groups and across the different stroke subtypes. The ANP gene G664A polymorphism is therefore unlikely to be an important risk factor for ischemic stroke in this population.
The authors obtained brain images with patients in the upright position using a newly designed and constructed vertical MR system. They found little gravitational effect on brain structures, even in the case of a severely atrophied brain. Their vertical system was practical for routine clinical usage and might provide information regarding gravitational effects on regional perfusion and other aspects of brain physiology.


Several studies have suggested an association between polymorphisms and an extended haplotype of the microtubule associated protein tau gene and Alzheimer's disease (AD) in synergy with apolipoprotein E (APOE) epsilon 4 status. However these findings have not been consistently replicated. We investigated the role of the tau haplotype in AD by conducting an association study as well as a meta-analysis of all the studies conducted to date. We examined six polymorphisms known to be in the extended tau haplotypes, one in exon 7 and five in and around exon 9 in 200 late onset AD and 189 control samples. All the polymorphisms examined fell into the recognised tau haplotypes. There was no statistical significant association with any of the polymorphisms and late onset AD. Stratification of data by APOE epsilon 4 status also produced no strongly significant association. The meta-analysis showed no significant differences between AD cases and controls, however stratification of data by APOE epsilon 4 status showed a small significant decrease in the H1 haplotype in AD before correction for multiple testing.
Lesch Nyhan syndrome (LNS) manifests in bizarre and horrific neurological symptoms, the primary cause being a deficiency of the purine salvage enzyme, hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase (HGPRT). How and why this enzyme deficiency leads to abnormal brain development is unknown. To investigate this phenomenon the present study was designed to examine if the growth of two HGPRT-deficient neuroblastomas, mouse N2aTG and rat B103-4C was different with respect to their corresponding control cell lines, N2a and B103. Data is provided showing that compared to control cell lines, HGPRT-deficient cells proliferated less and exhibited greater morphological complexity. If these abnormalities occur during neurogenesis of human HGPRT-deficient brain neurones, they could profoundly influence central nervous system development and thus, may form the aetiological basis for the symptoms of LNS.
CSF-A beta 42 may be a marker of Alzheimer's disease (AD). A decreased level of CSF-A beta 42 is consistently found in AD and has been suggested to be related to the deposition of amyloid plaques in the brain. However, low CSF-A beta 42 levels have also been found in disorders devoid of plaques, for instance Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. To examine if the level of A beta 42 in CSF is related to inflammatory processes, we studied CSF-A beta 42 levels in eight patients with acute purulent bacterial meningitis, 10 patients with acute viral meningitis and 18 age-matched controls. In acute purulent bacterial meningitis, the CSF-A beta 42 level was markedly reduced (28% of that in controls, P&lt;0.0001), whereas no change was found in viral meningitis. After successful treatment of bacterial meningitis, the CSF-A beta 42 level increased (P&lt;0.05 compared to baseline) and did no longer differ from that in controls (ns). The decrease could not be explained by interference with high protein levels, since addition of increasing volumes of serum did not influence the CSF-A beta 42 levels. Our findings suggest that the reduction in CSF-A beta 42 found in bacterial meningitis is not a direct consequence of the inflammatory process. The cause may be disturbance of the clearance of A beta 42 from the brain.
Research on cerebral affective processing in humans has concentrated on the lateralization of the prefrontal cortex. However, the parietal cortex also seems to play a role in motivation and emotion. In the present study the lateralized role of the parietal cortex in motivated attention was investigated, using an electrophysiological correlate of brain activity (electroencephalogram (EEG)) and a modified Dot probe task, which indexes selective, i.e. avoidant or vigilant attention for angry faces in a spatial display. Twenty-two participants underwent an EEG baseline recording from the F3, F4, P3 and P4 electrode positions, which was followed by the modified Dot probe task. Spectral power in 1 Hz frequency bins were derived for each electrode site and transformed to power density values in the 8-12 Hz (alpha) and 13-30 Hz (beta) frequency range. Log-transformed prefrontal and parietal asymmetries and bias scores for selective attention to angry and happy faces were calculated. Results showed a highly significant relationship between the asymmetry in parietal EEG beta activity and the attentional response to the angry face. Relative more right-sided parietal EEG activity in the beta frequency domain was predictive of a more avoidant response to angry facial expression. This finding suggests that asymmetrical parietal beta activity might be linked to the behavioural dimensions of approach and withdrawal.
Previous studies have shown that reaction time in an item-recognition task with both short and long lists is a quadratic function of list length. This suggests that either different memory retrieval processes are implied for short and long lists or an adaptive process is involved. An event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging study with nine subjects and list lengths varying between 3 and 18 words was conducted to identify the underlying neuronal structures of retrieval from long and short lists. For the retrieval and processing of word-lists a single fronto-parietal network, including premotor, left prefrontal, left precuneal and left parietal regions, was activated. With increasing list length, no additional regions became involved in retrieving information from long-term memory, suggesting that not necessarily different, but highly adaptive retrieval processes are involved.
We describe the expression of mRNA encoding ligands and receptors of members of the GDNF family and members of the neurotrophin family in the adult human spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia (DRG). Fetal human spinal cord and ganglia were investigated for the presence of ligands and receptors of the neurotrophin family. Tissues were collected from human organ donors and after routine elective abortions. Messenger RNA was found encoding RET, GFR alpha-1, BDNF, trkB, and trkC in the adult human spinal cord and BDNF, NT-3, p75, trkB, and trkC in the fetal human spinal cord. The percentage of adult human DRG cells expressing p75, trkA, trkB, or trkC was 57, 46, 29, and 24%, respectively, and that of DRG cells expressing RET, GFR alpha-1, GFR alpha-2, or GFR alpha-3 was 79, 20, 51, and 32%, respectively. GFR alpha-2 was expressed selectively in small, GFR alpha-3 principally in small and GFR alpha-1 and RET in both large and small adult human DRG neurons. p75 and trkB were expressed by a wide range of DRG neurons while trkA was expressed in most small diameter and trkC primarily in large DRG neurons. Fetal DRG cells were positive for the same probes as adult DRG cells except for NT-3, which was only found in fetal DRG cells. Messenger RNA species only expressed at detectable levels in fetal but not adult spinal cord tissues included GDNF, GFR alpha-2, NT-3, and p75. Notably, GFR alpha-2, which is expressed in the adult rat spinal cord, was not found in the adult human spinal cord.
Refinement of the retinal pathways to the superior colliculus (SC) and dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (dLGN) is mediated by nitric oxide (NO). Long-term depression (LTD) can also be induced in SC and LGN during the time at which these pathways are refined, and this LTD is partially dependent on NO and L-type Ca(2+) channel function. In an effort to determine whether NO-mediated pathway refinement is also mediated by Ca(2+) channel function, we have examined the refinement of the retinocollicular and retinogeniculate pathways in mice which lack the gene for the Ca(2+) channel beta(3) subunit (CCKO) and which have significantly reduced L-type Ca(2+) currents. Injections of the anterograde tracer cholera toxin subunit B/HRP were made into one eye of these knockout animals and in wild-type mice ages postnatal day (P) 13, P19, and P26. After 48 hours, mice were perfused and sections processed by using tetramethylbenzidine histochemistry. Labeling distribution in some animals was analyzed quantitatively. Obvious differences in the distribution of the ipsilateral retinocollicular pathway were observed at P15, with the pathway being more exuberant in CCKO mice. This difference was statistically significant. More subtle differences were seen at P21 and P28. Obvious differences were also seen in the contralateral retinogeniculate pathway which in CCKO mice filled most of the domain normally occupied by ipsilateral eye fibers. This difference was also statistically significant. We conclude that reduction in L-type Ca(2+) currents has an effect on axonal refinement similar to that which occurs in NO knockout mice, which supports the possibility that L-type Ca(2+) channel-dependent LTD mediates NO-dependent axonal refinement.
In a previous study characterizing morphological and functional features of cell death in trophically deprived chick ciliary ganglion neurons (Pena and Pilar [2000] J. Comp. Neurol. 424:377-396), we hypothesized that early cell death events might be targets for reversal, allowing for rescue of dying neurons. To test this hypothesis, ciliary ganglion (CG) neurons were cultured with or without trophic support (choroid, iris, and pigment epithelium soluble extract [CIPE]), or without trophic support for 11 or 18 hours and then exposed to trophic support. Prior to and at the onset of cell death commitment (11 hours) CIPE-deprived neurons exhibited increased membrane permeability, blebbing, cytoplasmic vacuolization, swollen mitochondria, low adenosine triphosphate levels, and release of cytochrome c from mitochondria. CIPE readdition at 11 hours reversed these changes. Between 11 and 18 hours, irreversible DNA fragmentation increased in CIPE-deprived neurons. Cyclosporin A and bongkrekic acid (inhibitors of mitochondrial transition permeability pores) prevented membrane permeability increases and delayed the progression to death in trophically deprived neurons by 12 hours; however, by 48 hours all neurons had died. BOC-Asp-CH2F (BAF), a pan-caspase inhibitor, did not prevent early events of cell death including increased membrane permeability and Cyto c release, but it inhibited DNA fragmentation and prolonged neuronal survival to 48 hours. We conclude that mitochondria changes occur early, prior to commitment and that the suppression of these changes can prevent all the downstream events of death, whereas caspase inhibitors have no effect on the early mitochondria/plasma membrane changes. Mitochondria thus play a critical role in the transition from reversible to irreversible commitment to developmental neuronal death. Furthermore, neuronal death is brought about by activation of one of two distinct pathways, one localized in mitochondria and the other dependent on activation of caspases.
A rat model of neurodevelopmental psychopathological disorders, designed to determine neurodevelopmental deficits following damage to the brain early in life, was used to investigate behavioural changes in adaptation and habituation to an open field and responses to different kinds of stressful events. Animals with bilateral ibotenic acid lesions in the amygdala or ventral hippocampus on day 7 or 21 of life were compared to sham-operated animals. According to the model it was assumed that behavioural changes in animals lesioned on day 7, but not in animals lesioned on day 21 of life, were caused by maldevelopment of one or more structures connected to the damaged area. Animals lesioned in the amygdala or ventral hippocampus on day 7, but not animals lesioned in these structures on day 21 of life, displayed decreased (within-session) adaptation and (between-session) habituation to the open field and a decrease in immobility in the forced swim test, whereas only animals lesioned in the amygdala displayed enhanced general activity. These results were indicative of neurodevelopmental deficits. No changes in stress-induced hyperthermia were found, while animals lesioned in the amygdala both on day 7 or 21 of life exhibited decreased conditioned ultrasonic vocalizations. These latter results suggest that the amygdala is implicated in the conditioned stress-induced response. The contribution of the present findings to the animal model of neurodevelopmental disorders like schizophrenia and possible brain structures and neurotransmitter systems involved in the neurodevelopmental deficits are discussed.
Humans and experimental animals show strong increases in body temperature in response to a variety of stimuli presumed to have stress as their common denominator. To assess the brain's role in this 'emotional' hyperthermia, temperatures were continuously recorded in dorsal and ventral striatum and in deep temporal muscle of freely moving rats exposed to different arousing and mild stress stimuli (placement in the test cage, 20-s sound stimulation, i.v. saline injection, 3-min social interaction with conspecific, and 3-min tail-pinch). The stimuli caused brain hyperthermia of differing degrees but similar pattern, in both the dorsal and ventral striatum. Ventral striatum had approximately 0.4 degrees C higher basal temperature than dorsal striatum, each of these brain temperatures was higher than that in deep temporal muscle. Maximal increases in brain temperature ( approximately 0.8-1.2 degrees C for 20-40 min) occurred upon placement in the test cages, during tail-pinch and during social interaction, all of which were accompanied by behavioral activation. These increases developed with short onset latencies (up to 5-15 s) and always preceded increases in muscle temperature. Significant but smaller increases in brain temperature ( approximately 0.2 degrees C for 4-6 min) were detected after sound stimulation and i.v. saline injection that induced minimal changes in behavior and no change in muscle temperature. Thus, it appears that brain hyperthermia can be triggered by quite different arousing or stressful stimuli that disturb an organism's homeostasis and demand adaptive responding. Although the exact mechanisms of local heat production in brain tissue remain to be confirmed, neuronal activation appears to be the primary triggering force behind changes in brain temperature that are sufficient to affect body temperature. Because most neural processes are temperature-dependent, change in local temperature may result in dramatic modulation of the efficiency of neural processes in situations critical for life-support and during adaptive behavior.
The degree of lesion produced by 192 IgG-saporin relative to controls was compared using three independent methods. Microdialyzed acetylcholine (ACh), choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity, and the rate of ACh synthesis were compared in the frontal cortex and hippocampus. Microdialysis of rats was performed 1 and 15 weeks post-lesion. In week 16, the rats were sacrificed after an injection of deuterated choline (Ch) for determination of the rate of ACh synthesis. ChAT activity was determined at the same timepoints in a separate set of rats. At 1 week, ChAT activity and microdialyzed ACh showed similar degrees of depletion. At 15 weeks, microdialyzed ACh was significantly lower than the synthesis rate in cortex, but not in hippocampus. A small increase in ChAT activity between 1 and 15 weeks was found in the cortex, but not hippocampus. In the hippocampus, however, the rate of ACh synthesis was significantly greater than ChAT activity. This was true for two doses of immunotoxin; the greater compensation occurring with the lesser lesion. Microdialyzed ACh levels were not different from the other measures in hippocampus. Residual cholinergic terminals in the hippocampus, but not frontal cortex, compensate for a selective cholinergic lesion by increasing the rate of synthesis and may thereby alleviate hippocampus-dependent behavioral deficits.
Lesch-Nyhan syndrome encompasses a host of neurological symptoms, caused by a deficiency of the purine salvage enzyme, hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase (HGPRT). How the absence of this enzymes activity affects development of the nervous system is unknown. In this study, we examined the ability of N2aTG, a HGPRT-deficient neuroblastoma and its HGPRT-positive counterpart to proliferate and differentiate at various densities. In summary, N2aTG cells proliferated less and differentiated more than N2a cells, with the former cells exhibiting enhanced sensitivity to the effects of low-density culture. Given the homogeneity of this neuroblastoma cell line and its use in studies of neuronal development, the present study indicates that N2aTG cells may prove a suitable in vitro model for the study of non-dopaminergic neuronal development in Lesch-Nyhan syndrome.
The effect of imperatoxin A (IpTx(a)) on the ryanodine receptor type 3 (RyR3) was studied. IpTx(a) stimulates [(3)H]ryanodine binding to RyR3-containing microsomes, but this effect requires toxin concentrations higher than those required to stimulate RyR1 channels. The effect of IpTx(a) on RyR3 channels was observed at calcium concentrations in the range 0.1 microM to 10 mM. By contrast, RyR2 channels were not significantly affected by IpTx(a) in the same calcium ranges. Single channel current measurements indicated that IpTx(a) induced subconductance state in RyR3 channels that was similar to those observed with RyR1 and RyR2 channels. These results indicate that IpTx(a) is capable of inducing similar subconductance states in all three RyR isoforms, while stimulation of [(3)H]ryanodine binding by this toxin results in isoform-specific responses, with RyR1 being the most sensitive channel, RyR3 displaying an intermediate response and RyR2 the least responsive ones.
Cholinergic neurotransmission depends upon the regulated release of acetylcholine. This requires the loading of acetylcholine into synaptic vesicles by the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT). Here, we identify point mutants in Caenorhabditis elegans that map to highly conserved regions of the VAChT gene of Caenorhabditis elegans (CeVAChT) (unc-17) and exhibit behavioral phenotypes consistent with a reduction in vesicular transport activity and neurosecretion. Several of these mutants express normal amounts of VAChT protein and exhibit appropriate targeting of VAChT to synaptic vesicles. By site-directed mutagenesis, we have replaced the conserved amino acid residues found in human VAChT with the mutated residue in CeVAChT and stably expressed these cDNAs in PC-12 cells. These mutants display selective defects in initial acetylcholine transport velocity (K(m)), with values ranging from 2- to 8-fold lower than that of the wild-type. One of these mutants has lost its specific interaction with vesamicol, a selective inhibitor of VAChT, and displays vesamicol-insensitive uptake of acetylcholine. The relative order of behavioral severity of the CeVAChT point mutants is identical to the order of reduced affinity of VAChT for acetylcholine in vitro. This indicates that specific structural changes in VAChT translate into specific alterations in the intrinsic parameters of transport and in the storage and synaptic release of acetylcholine in vivo.
DNA fragmentation and activation of caspase-1, implicating involvement of apoptosis, have been reported in the spinal cord of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) patients and transgenic mouse models of ALS. Because BH3-only members of the Bcl-2 family have pro-apoptotic activity, we examined the expression of the BH3-only peptide harakiri (Hrk) in the spinal cord of ALS patients. In situ expression of Hrk mRNA and immunoreactivity against the Hrk peptide were verified in the spinal neurons. In the immunoblot analysis, upregulated Hrk protein migrated at 16 kDa. Heterodimerization of Hrk with Bcl-2 was detected by immunoprecipitation, which suggests the competition of Hrk and anti-apoptotic Bcl-2. These findings suggest that Hrk plays a role in apoptotic events in ALS pathogenesis.
Efflux of glutamate during cerebral ischemia is known to contribute to brain cell death via processes of excitotoxicity. However, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) is also released during ischemia, and may be protective. In this study, we used in vivo microdialysis to map the efflux of glutamate and GABA from central core and peripheral zones of focal ischemia in mouse brain. We show that the temporal profiles of glutamate and GABA efflux are significantly different in core versus peripheral zones. Calculation of glutamate/GABA ratios demonstrate that, in the core, there is a significant increase above baseline ratios during the first 30 mm of ischemia, which then rapidly renormalizes. In contrast, no significant changes in glutamate/GABA ratios were seen in the ischemic periphery. These data suggest that imbalances in glutamate versus GABA efflux may be an initial trigger of excitotoxic brain damage in the core but not the peripheral zones of focal cerebral ischemia.
A series of N(1)-arylsulfonyltryptamines were found to be potent ligands of the human serotonin 5-HT(6) receptor with the 5-methoxy-1-benzenesulfonyl analogue (19) having the highest affinity. Additionally, it was discovered that a group such as 3-(3-methoxybenzyl)-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5-yl in the 2-position of the indole ring (43) can replace the arylsulfonyl substituent in the 1-position with no loss of affinity. This suggested that the binding conformation of the aminoethyl side chain at this receptor was toward the 4-position of the indole ring and was supported by the fact that the 4-(aminoethyl)indoles (45) also displayed high affinity, as did the conformationally rigid 1,3,4,5-tetrahydrobenz[c,d]indole (49). Molecular modeling showed that 19, 43, and 45 all had low-energy conformers that overlaid well onto 49. Both 19 and 49 had good selectivity over other serotonin receptors tested, with 49 also showing excellent selectivity over all dopamine receptors. In a functional adenylate cyclase stimulation assay, 19 and 49 had no agonist activity, whereas 45 behaved as a partial agonist. Finally, it was shown that 19 had good activity in the 5-HT(2A) centrally mediated mescaline-induced head twitch assay, which implies that it is brain-penetrant.
In Drosophila and mice, olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) expressing the same receptors have convergent axonal projections to specific glomerular targets in the antennal lobe/olfactory bulb, creating an odour map in this first olfactory structure of the central nervous system. Projection neurons of the Drosophila antennal lobe send dendrites into glomeruli and axons to higher brain centres, thereby transferring this odour map further into the brain. Here we use the MARCM method to perform a systematic clonal analysis of projection neurons, allowing us to correlate lineage and birth time of projection neurons with their glomerular choice. We demonstrate that projection neurons are prespecified by lineage and birth order to form synapses with specific incoming ORN axons, and therefore to carry specific olfactory information. This prespecification could be used to hardwire the fly's olfactory system, enabling stereotyped behavioural responses to odorants. Developmental studies lead us to hypothesize that recognition molecules ensure reciprocally specific connections of ORNs and projection neurons. These studies also imply a previously unanticipated role for precise dendritic targeting by postsynaptic neurons in determining connection specificity.
Epidemiological studies have documented a reduced prevalence of Alzheimer's disease among users of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). It has been proposed that NSAIDs exert their beneficial effects in part by reducing neurotoxic inflammatory responses in the brain, although this mechanism has not been proved. Here we report that the NSAIDs ibuprofen, indomethacin and sulindac sulphide preferentially decrease the highly amyloidogenic Abeta42 peptide (the 42-residue isoform of the amyloid-beta peptide) produced from a variety of cultured cells by as much as 80%. This effect was not seen in all NSAIDs and seems not to be mediated by inhibition of cyclooxygenase (COX) activity, the principal pharmacological target of NSAIDs. Furthermore, short-term administration of ibuprofen to mice that produce mutant beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) lowered their brain levels of Abeta42. In cultured cells, the decrease in Abeta42 secretion was accompanied by an increase in the Abeta(1-38) isoform, indicating that NSAIDs subtly alter gamma-secretase activity without significantly perturbing other APP processing pathways or Notch cleavage. Our findings suggest that NSAIDs directly affect amyloid pathology in the brain by reducing Abeta42 peptide levels independently of COX activity and that this Abeta42-lowering activity could be optimized to selectively target the pathogenic Abeta42 species.
The human brain has evolved specialized neural mechanisms for visual recognition of faces, which afford us a remarkable ability to discriminate between, remember and think about many hundreds of different individuals. Sheep also recognize and are attracted to individual sheep and humans by their faces, as they possess similar specialized neural systems in the temporal and frontal lobes for assisting in this important social task, including a greater involvement of the right brain hemisphere. Here we show that individual sheep can remember 50 other different sheep faces for over 2 years, and that the specialized neural circuits involved maintain selective encoding of individual sheep and human faces even after long periods of separation.




The brain circuitry processing rewarding and aversive stimuli is hypothesized to be at the core of motivated behavior. In this study, discrete categories of beautiful faces are shown to have differing reward values and to differentially activate reward circuitry in human subjects. In particular, young heterosexual males rate pictures of beautiful males and females as attractive, but exert effort via a keypress procedure only to view pictures of attractive females. Functional magnetic resonance imaging at 3 T shows that passive viewing of beautiful female faces activates reward circuitry, in particular the nucleus accumbens. An extended set of subcortical and paralimbic reward regions also appear to follow aspects of the keypress rather than the rating procedures, suggesting that reward circuitry function does not include aesthetic assessment.
This study explores the nature of population coding in sensory cortex by applying information theoretic analyses to neuron pairs recorded simultaneously from rat barrel cortex. We quantified the roles of individual spikes and spike patterns in encoding whisker stimulus location. 82%-85% of the total information was contained in the timing of individual spikes: first spike time was particularly crucial. Spike patterns within neurons accounted for the remaining 15%-18%. Neuron pairs located in the same barrel column coded redundantly, whereas pairs in neighboring barrel columns coded independently. The barrel cortical population code for stimulus location appears to be the time of single neurons' first poststimulus spikes-a fast, robust coding mechanism that does not rely on &quot;synergy&quot; in crossneuronal spike patterns.
Motility is an important process that contributes to cancer cell spread. Growth factors are key regulators of motility in many cell types. Insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) causes SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells to undergo dynamic morphological changes, leading to the extension of lamellipodia. IGF-I stimulated lamellipodia extension requires signaling through both phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3-K) and MAP kinase pathways. IGF-I, over a period of hours, stimulates SH-SY5Y and SHEP neuroblastoma cells to become more motile. While SH-SY5Y and SHEP cells use different insulin receptor substrate (IRS) isoforms to transduce signals from the IGF-I receptor, IGF-I has the same relative effect on the motility of both cell lines. Blocking the PI3-K and MAP kinase pathways attenuates the ability of IGF-I to increase motility. Overexpression of PTEN also attenuates IGF-I mediated motility. These results delineate some of the proximal events in the signaling mechanism utilized by IGF-I to stimulate cell motility.
Previous studies have shown that a chromatic mechanism can drive pupil responses. The aim of this research was to clarify whether a linear or nonlinear chromatic mechanism drives pupillary responses by using test stimuli of various colours that are defined in cone contrast space. The pupil and accommodation responses evoked by these test stimuli were continuously and simultaneously objectively measured by photorefraction. The results with isochromatic and isoluminant stimuli showed that the accommodative level remained approximately constant (&lt; 0.25 D change in mean level) even when the concurrent pupillary response was large (ca. 0.30 mm). The pupillary response to an isoluminant grating was sustained, delayed (by ca. 60 ms) and larger in amplitude than that for a isochromatic uniform stimulus, which supports previous work suggesting that the chromatic mechanism contributes to the pupillary response. In a second experiment, selected chromatic test gratings were used and isoresponse contours in cone contrast space were obtained. The results showed that the isoresponse contour in cone contrast space is well described (r(2) = 0.99) by a straight line with a positive slope. The results indicate that a /L - M/ linear chromatic mechanism, whereby a signal from the long wavelength cone is subtracted from that of the middle wavelength cone and vice versa, drives pupillary responses.
Hippocampal synaptic structure and function exhibit marked variations during the estrus cycle of female rats. Estradiol activates the mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase pathway in numerous cell types, and MAP kinase has been shown to play a critical role in the mechanisms underlying synaptic plasticity. Here, we report that endogenous estrogen produces a tonic phosphorylation/activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 2 (ERK2)/MAP kinase throughout the female rat brain and an increase in tyrosine phosphorylation of NR2 subunits of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. Moreover, cyclic changes in estrogen levels during the estrus cycle of female rats are associated with corresponding changes in the levels of activation of ERK2, the state of tyrosine phosphorylation of NR2 subunits of NMDA receptors, and the magnitude of long-term potentiation in hippocampus. Thus, cyclic changes in female sexual hormones result in marked variations in the state of activation of a major cellular signaling pathway critical for learning and memory and in a cellular model of learning and memory.
Expression of the transcription factor c-Jun is induced in neurons of the central nervous system (CNS) in response to injury. Mechanical transection of the nigrostriatal pathway at the medial forebrain bundle (MFB) results in the delayed retrograde degeneration of the dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) and induces protracted expression and phosphorylation of c-Jun. However, the role of c-Jun after axotomy of CNS neurons is unclear. Here, we show that adenovirus-mediated expression of a dominant negative form of c-Jun (Ad.c-JunDN) inhibited axotomy-induced dopamine neuron death and attenuated phosphorylation of c-Jun in nigral neurons. Ad.c-JunDN also delayed the degeneration of dopaminergic nigral axons in the striatum after MFB axotomy. Taken together, these findings suggest that activation of c-Jun mediates the loss of dopamine neurons after axotomy injury.
Recent studies suggest that the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) of the brainstem contains several subdivisions that differ both anatomically and neurochemically. The present study examined whether variation of c-Fos expression across the 24-hour light-dark cycle may also be different in these subdivisions. Animals were kept on a 12:12 light-dark cycle, were perfused at seven different time points, and brain sections were processed by using c-Fos immunocytochemistry. At all coronal levels of the DRN, c-Fos expression reached a peak 1 hour after the light-dark transition (lights-off) and reached its lowest levels in the middle of the light period. In contrast to the light-dark transition, c-Fos levels did not change significantly after the dark-light transition (lights-on). One-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) revealed that the diurnal variation of c-Fos expression was highly significant in the caudal ventral DRN. Similar variation in c-Fos expression also was observed in the other DRN subdivisions, but this variation appeared to gradually diminish in the caudal-to-rostral and ventromedial-to-dorsomedial directions. Double-label immunocytochemistry revealed that, 1 hour after lights-off, only 11% of c-Fos-positive neurons in the caudal ventral DRN were serotonin (5-HT)-immunoreactive. These results suggest that DRN subdivisions may differ functionally with regard to the diurnal cycle, and that these differences may be reflected in the activity of nonserotonergic cells in the DRN.
This is a study in the rat of the distribution of specific neurotransmitters in neurones projecting from the substantia nigra reticulata (SNR) to the ventrolateral (VL) and ventromedial (VM) thalamic nuclei. Individual axons projecting from the SNR to these thalamic nuclei have also been reconstructed following small injection of the anterograde tracer dextran biotin into the the SNR. Analysis of reconstructions revealed two populations of SNR neurones projecting onto the VL and VM thalamic nuclei. One group projects directly onto the VM and VL, and the other projects to the VM/VL and to the parafascicular nucleus. In another set of experiments Fluoro-Gold was injected into the VL/VM to label SNR projection neurones retrogradely, and immunohistochemistry was performed to determine the distribution of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT), gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), and glutamate in Fluoro-Gold-labelled SNR projection neurones. Most SNR-VL/VM thalamic projection neurones were immunoreactive to acetylcholine or glutamate, whereas only 25% of the projection neurones were found to be immunoreactive to GABA.
The interaction of the psychotropic agent olanzapine with serotonin 5-HT(3) and 5-HT(6) receptors was investigated. Olanzapine did not contract the isolated guinea pig ileum, but blocked contractions induced by the 5-HT(3) receptor agonist 2-methyl serotonin (2-CH(3) 5-HT) with a pK(B) value of 6.38+/-0.03, close to the affinity of the 5-HT(3) receptor antagonist ondansetron. The atypical antipsychotic risperidone (1 microM) did not significantly inhibit 2-CH(3) 5-HT-induced contractions. Olanzapine had high affinity (pK(i)=8.30+/-0.06) for human 5-HT(6) receptors in radioligand binding studies. Olanzapine did not stimulate [35S]guanosine-5'-O-(3-thio)triphosphate ([35S]GTPgammaS) binding to the G protein G(s) in cells containing human 5-HT(6) receptors, but inhibited 5-HT-stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding (pK(B)=7.38+/-0.16). Among other antipsychotics investigated, clozapine antagonized 5-HT(6) receptors with a pK(B)=7.42+/-0.15, ziprasidone was three-fold less potent, and risperidone, quetiapine and haloperidol were weak antagonists. Thus, olanzapine was not an agonist, but was a potent antagonist at 5-HT(6) receptors and had marked antagonism at 5-HT(3) receptors.
The effect of gamma-hydroxybutyric acid (GHB) and baclofen, a GABA(B) receptor agonist, on extracellular hippocampal acetylcholine levels was studied in freely moving rats by microdialysis. GHB (200 and 500 mg/kg, i.p.) reduced in a dose-dependent manner, extracellular hippocampal acetylcholine concentrations and this effect was prevented by the GABA(B) receptor antagonist (2S)(+)-5,5-Dimethyl-2-morpholineacetic acid (SCH 50911), at the dose of 20 mg/kg (i.p.), while the putative GHB receptor antagonist 6,7,8,9-Tetrahydro-5-hydroxy-5H-benzocyclohept-6-ylideneacetic acid (NCS 382) was ineffective. Similar to GHB, the GABA(B) agonist baclofen (10 and 20 mg/kg, i.p.) produced a dose-related reduction in extracellular acetylcholine concentrations which was prevented by SCH 50911. These findings indicate that GHB-induced reduction of hippocampal acetylcholine release is mediated by GABA(B) receptors and support a possible involvement of hippocampal GABA(B) receptors in the control of cognitive processes and in the claimed amnesic effect of GHB intoxication.
Sulfonylurea receptors (SURx) are multi-spanning transmembrane proteins of the ATP-binding cassette (ABC) family, which associate with Kir6.x to form ATP-sensitive potassium channels. Two models, with 13-17 transmembrane segments, have been proposed for SURx topologies. Recently, we demonstrated that the amino-terminal region of SUR1 contains 5 transmembrane segments, supporting the 17-transmembrane model. To investigate the topology of the complete full-length SUR1, two strategies were employed. Topology was probed by accessibility of introduced cysteines to a membrane-impermeable biotinylating reagent, biotin maleimide. Amino acid positions 6/26, 99, 159, 337, 567, 1051, and 1274 were accessible, therefore extracellular, whereas many endogenous and some introduced cysteines were inaccessible, thus likely cytoplasmic or intramembrane. These sites correspond to extracellular loops 1-3, 5-6, and 8 and the NH2 terminus, and intracellular loops 3-8 and COOH terminus in the 17-transmembrane model. Immunofluorescence was used to determine accessibility of epitope-tagged SUR1 in intact and permeabilized cells. Epitopes at positions 337 and 1050 (putative external loops 3 and 6) were labeled in intact cells, therefore external, whereas positions 485 and 1119 (putative internal loops 5 and 7) only were accessible after permeabilization and therefore internal. These results are compatible with the 17-transmembrane model with two pairs of transmembrane segments as possible reentrant loops.
The transcription factors AP-2alpha and AP-2beta are implicated to play an important role during embryonic development of different parts of the brain, and in targeted regulation of gene expression in the adult brain. Several monoaminergic genes have binding sites for AP-2 in regulatory regions. We have in the present study, analysed the association between AP-2 levels in the brainstem of rats (n=9) and monoamine levels in the frontal cortex, septum and hippocampus. Several regionally specific correlations were found between AP-2alpha and AP-2beta and specific monoamines in the rat forebrain. The data support our notion that the transcription factor AP-2 family is involved in the regulation of the monoaminergic systems and, therefore, might be involved in the pathophysiology of neuropsychiatric disorders.
Presenilin 1 mutations are the major cause of autosomal dominant Alzheimer's disease: here we identify a new missense mutation causing a methionine to valine change at codon 233. This codon is homologous to a pathogenic presenilin 2 mutation with the same base change (ATG to GTG) and amino acid change (M239V). This mutation causes disease with an exceptionally early onset age (approximately 30 years) in which pathological examination shows extensive Lewy bodies as well as plaques and tangles.
How pathophysiology of one pelvic organ influences the physiology of another is poorly understood. Here we compared the influence of bladder inflammation and hypogastric neurectomy (HYPX) on uterine contractions and bladder reflexes in urethane-anesthetized rats. Uterine contractions were measured via a latex balloon in one uterine horn. Bladder reflexes were assessed by micturition thresholds (MT) obtained cystometrographically. Whereas bladder inflammation significantly increased bladder reflexes (i.e., reduced MTs), it significantly decreased uterine contraction rate. Whereas HYPX produced small significant decreases in MT, it decreased the rate and significantly increased the amplitude of uterine contractions. These results indicate that bladder pathophysiology can influence uterine contractions and that some of this influence may be via the hypogastric nerve. Such viscero-visceral interactions likely involve spinal cord mechanisms and may have considerable clinical relevance.
SNAREs (soluble NSF-attachment protein receptors) are generally acknowledged as central components of membrane fusion reactions, but their precise function has remained enigmatic. Competing hypotheses suggest roles for SNAREs in mediating the specificity of fusion, catalyzing fusion, or actually executing fusion. We generated knockout mice lacking synaptobrevin/VAMP 2, the vesicular SNARE protein responsible for synaptic vesicle fusion in forebrain synapses, to make use of the exquisite temporal resolution of electrophysiology in measuring fusion. In the absence of synaptobrevin 2, spontaneous synaptic vesicle fusion and fusion induced by hypertonic sucrose were decreased approximately 10-fold, but fast Ca2+-triggered fusion was decreased more than 100-fold. Thus, synaptobrevin 2 may function in catalyzing fusion reactions and stabilizing fusion intermediates but is not absolutely required for synaptic fusion.
Converging evidence and new research methodologies from across the neurosciences permit the neuroscientific study of the role of sleep in off-line memory reprocessing, as well as the nature and function of dreaming. Evidence supports a role for sleep in the consolidation of an array of learning and memory tasks. In addition, new methodologies allow the experimental manipulation of dream content at sleep onset, permitting an objective and scientific study of this dream formation and a renewed search for the possible functions of dreaming and the biological processes subserving it.
Nerve cells communicate with each other through two mechanisms, referred to as fast and slow synaptic transmission. Fast-acting neurotransmitters, e.g., glutamate (excitatory) and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) (inhibitory), achieve effects on their target cells within one millisecond by virtue of opening ligand-operated ion channels. In contrast, all of the effects of the biogenic amine and peptide neurotransmitters, as well as many of the effects of glutamate and GABA, are achieved over hundreds of milliseconds to minutes by slow synaptic transmission. This latter process is mediated through an enormously more complicated sequence of biochemical steps, involving second messengers, protein kinases, and protein phosphatases. Slow-acting neurotransmitters control the efficacy of fast synaptic transmission by regulating the efficiency of neurotransmitter release from presynaptic terminals and by regulating the efficiency with which fast-acting neurotransmitters produce their effects on postsynaptic receptors.
The N70 and P100 components of transient pattern visual evoked potentials (P-VEPs) were measured in migraine patients, with and without aura, and in normal subjects in order to evaluate their latency, amplitude and occipital scalp distribution. The aim was to find any typical electrophysiological abnormalities in migraine. P-VEP N70 and P100 were analyzed in 59 patients without any known visual field defect. Mean latency and amplitude values were within normal ranges for either N70 and P100 all over the occipital scalp; the only significant abnormality we found was related to the absolute right-left amplitude ratio either for N70 and P100 waves, providing an asymmetry in P-VEP scalp distribution; this finding was detected in 78.9% of patients with aura and 72.5% without aura. Our results show that in migraine patients, both P-VEP waves N70 and P100, have an asymmetric topographic distribution, even during interictal phases, that can be explained by a cortical disturbance in agreement with the neural hypothesis of headache.
This is the first report demonstrating that progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) exists on Guam. This 75-year-old Guamanian Chamorro patient with slight dementia and rigidity with restriction of ocular up gaze was diagnosed as parkinsonism-dementia complex (PDC) of Guam clinically. However, neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) were scarcely seen in the cerebral cortices and hippocampus, but many NFTs, composed of 15-17 nm straight tubules, were detected in the subthalamic nucleus and brain stem. A large number of tuft-shaped astrocytes were observed in the putamen and motor cortex, and numerous argyrophilic grains were seen in the CA1 and subiculum. These pathological findings are different from those of PDC and consistent with PSP. The present case indicates that PSP and PDC clinically resemble each other, and that precise neuropathological examination is indispensable for the final diagnosis of the patient with parkinsonism, dementia and disturbance of vertical external ocular movement.
Different kinds of tau deposits were quantitatively investigated with thiazin red (TR), a fluorochrome that binds to fibrillary structures like neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs), in brains obtained at autopsy from patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), Pick body (PB) disease, corticobasal degeneration (CBD) or diffuse NFTs with calcification (DNTC). After recording double-labeling fluorescence images with anti-paired helical filament tau (AT8) and TR, the sections were subjected to Gallyas method (GAL). This enabled three different staining properties to be compared on the identical neuron. AT8-positive neocortical neurons of AD and DNTC were fibrillary and uniformly positive for TR and GAL, consistently forming NFTs. NFTs lacking AT8 immunoreactivity (IR) were more frequent in DNTC than in AD, suggesting that evolution of NFTs is more accelerated in DNTC. Scarce TR staining in tau-positive neocortical neurons of CBD suggests their paucity of fibrillary structure. Since the affinity of TR for PB was not consistent, this may be dependent not only on the amount but also the characteristics of fibrillary structures. PBs were further characterized by the scarcity of GAL staining. This approach, which quantitatively clarifies differences between AT8-IR, TR and GAL, provides a morphological basis for further investigations of the different conformational states of tau from its deposition to fibril formation of various types.


The purpose of the present study was to investigate personality traits and platelet monoamine oxidase (MAO) activity, as well as occurrence of personality disorder criteria, family characteristics, and criminal activity as related to misuse pattern in a sample of female in-patients with severe alcohol dependence. In accordance with theoretical assumptions and empirical findings of underlying neurobiological correlates of disinhibition in individuals with double or multiple misuse patterns, the female alcoholics were divided into subgroups with: (1) alcohol as their single drug of misuse (ALC; n = 16); (2) a history of additional substance misuse (ALC-DRUG; n = 11). Platelet MAO activity of the female subgroups was studied in comparison to a control group of non-clinical female subjects. Marked differences were obtained between the two subgroups. The ALC-DRUG females scored significantly higher with regard to Karolinska Scales of Personality (KSP) impulsiveness, anxiety-related traits, and non-conformity, displayed higher frequency of depression in first degree relatives, were more frequently involved in criminal activity, and more frequently diagnosed for any personality disorder according to DSM-IV, axis II. Finally, the ALC-DRUG females displayed significantly lower platelet MAO activity than controls. In conclusion, the results support the usefulness of a classification of severe alcoholic female subjects according to having/not having a history of additional substance misuse. The present female alcoholics with a history of additional misuse formed a group of individuals fulfilling the criteria similar for male type 2 alcoholism.

The experience of being human is embedded in sensory events of everyday life. This lecture reviews sensory processing literature, including neuroscience and social science perspectives. Introduced is Dunns Model of Sensory Processing, and the evidence supporting this model is summarized. Specifically, using Sensory Profile questionnaires (i.e., items describing responses to sensory events in daily life; persons mark the frequency of each behavior), persons birth to 90 years of age demonstrate four sensory processing patterns: sensory seeking, sensory avoiding, sensory sensitivity, and low registration. These patterns are based on a persons neurological thresholds and self-regulation strategies. Psychophysiology studies verify these sensory processing patterns; persons with strong preferences in each pattern also have unique patterns of habituation and responsivity in skin conductance. Studies also indicate that persons with disabilities respond differently than peers on these questionnaires, suggesting underlying poor sensory processing in certain disorders, including autism, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, developmental delays, and schizophrenia. The author proposes relationships between sensory processing and temperament and personality traits. The four categories of temperament share some consistency with the four sensory processing patterns described in Dunn's model. As with temperament, each person has some level of responsiveness within each sensory processing preference (i.e., a certain amount of seeking, avoiding, etc., not one or the other). The author suggests that one's sensory processing preferences simultaneously reflect his or her nervous system needs and form the basis for the manifestation of temperament and personality. The final section of this lecture outlines parameters for developing best practice that supports interventions based on this knowledge.
Mononuclear phagocytes (monocytes, macrophages, and microglia) are considered central to multiple sclerosis (MS) pathogenesis. Molecular cues that mediate mononuclear phagocyte accumulation and activation in the central nervous system (CNS) of MS patients may include chemokines RANTES/CCL5 and macrophage inflammatory protein-1alpha/CCL3. We analyzed expression of CCR1 and CCR5, the monocyte receptors for these chemokines, on circulating and cerebrospinal fluid CD14+ cells, and in MS brain lesions. Approximately 70% of cerebrospinal fluid monocytes were CCR1+/CCR5+, regardless of the presence of CNS pathology, compared to less than 20% of circulating monocytes. In active MS lesions CCR1+/CCR5+ monocytes were found in perivascular cell cuffs and at the demyelinating edges of evolving lesions. Mononuclear phagocytes in early demyelinating stages comprised CCR1+/CCR5+ hematogenous monocytes and CCR1-/CCR5- resident microglial cells. In later stages, phagocytic macrophages were uniformly CCR1-/CCR5+. Cultured in vitro, adherent monocytes/macrophages up-regulated CCR5 and down-regulated CCR1 expression, compared to freshly-isolated monocytes. Taken together, these findings suggest that monocytes competent to enter the CNS compartment derive from a minority CCR1+/CCR5+ population in the circulating pool. In the presence of ligand, these cells will be retained in the CNS. During further activation in lesions, infiltrating monocytes down-regulate CCR1 but not CCR5, whereas microglia up-regulate CCR5.
Endothelin-1 (ET-1) is a potent vasoconstrictor peptide that is also known to induce a wide spectrum of biological responses in nonvascular tissue. In this study, we found that ET-1 (100 nM) inhibited the glutamate uptake in cultured astrocytes expressing the glutamate/aspartate transporter (GLAST); astrocytes did not express the glutamate transporter-1 (GLT-1). The V(max) and the K(m) of the glutamate uptake were reduced by 57% and 47%, respectively. Application of the ET(A) and ET(B) receptor antagonists BQ-123 and BQ-788 partly inhibited the ET-1-evoked decrease in the glutamate uptake, whereas the nonspecific ET receptor antagonist bosentan completely inhibited this decrease. Incubation of the cultures with pertussis toxin abolished the effect of ET-1 on the uptake. The ET-1-induced decrease in the glutamate uptake was independent of extracellular free Ca(2+) concentration, whereas the intracellular Ca(2+) antagonists thapsigargin and 3,4,5-trimethoxybenzoic acid 8-(diethylamino)octyl ester abolished the effect of ET-1 on the glutamate uptake. Incubation with the protein kinase C (PKC) antagonist staurosporine, but not with the fatty acid-binding protein bovine serum albumin, prevented the ET-1-induced decrease in the glutamate uptake. These results suggest that ET-1 impairs the high-affinity glutamate uptake in cultured astrocytes through a G protein-coupled mechanism, involving PKC and changes in intracellular Ca(2+).
The role of the soluble NSF attachment protein receptor (SNARE) protein complex in release of multiple cotransmitters from autonomic vasodilator neurons was examined in isolated segments of guinea pig uterine arteries treated with botulinum neurotoxin A (BoNTA; 50 nM). Western blotting of protein extracts from uterine arteries demonstrated partial cleavage of synaptosomal-associated protein of 25 kDa (SNAP-25) to a NH2-terminal fragment of approximately 24 kDa by BoNTA. BoNTA reduced the amplitude (by 70-80%) of isometric contractions of arteries in response to repeated electrical stimulation of sympathetic axons at 1 or 10 Hz. The amplitude of neurogenic relaxations mediated by neuronal nitric oxide (NO) was not affected by BoNTA, whereas the duration of peptide-mediated neurogenic relaxations to stimulation at 10 Hz was reduced (67% reduction in integrated responses). In contrast, presynaptic cholinergic inhibition of neurogenic relaxations was abolished by BoNTA. These results demonstrate that the SNARE complex has differential involvement in release of cotransmitters from the same autonomic neurons: NO release is not dependent on synaptic vesicle exocytosis, acetylcholine release from small vesicles is highly dependent on the SNARE complex, and neuropeptide release from large vesicles involves SNARE proteins that may interact differently with regulatory factors such as calcium.
Infant rats respond to cold exposure with increased heat production by brown adipose tissue (BAT). BAT thermogenesis increases steadily with increasing cold exposure, but a point occurs at which thermogenesis can increase no further, resulting in cold-induced bradycardia. Previous work has shown that mean arterial pressure (MAP) is maintained even when cardiac rate decreases as much as 50% from baseline values. We examined the neural and hormonal contributions to peripheral resistance during cold exposure after pups were injected subcutaneously with vehicle, an alpha1-adrenoceptor antagonist (prazosin; 0.5 mg/kg), an ANG II receptor antagonist (losartan; 1 mg/kg), a vasopressin receptor antagonist (Manning compound; 0.5 mg/kg), or simultaneous administration of all three antagonists (triple block). Interscapular temperature, oxygen consumption, cardiac rate, and arterial pressure were monitored as air temperature was sequentially decreased from thermoneutral (i.e., 35 degrees C) to 29, 23, and 17 degrees C. Only pups in the triple block condition exhibited significant decreases in MAP with cooling, even though all pups exhibited substantial decreases in cardiac rate. A followup study suggested that blockade of all three systems was more effective than blockade of any two systems. Finally, at 17 degrees C, ultrasonic vocalizations were accompanied by significant increases in MAP, replicating a previous finding and supporting the hypothesis that the vocalization is the acoustic by-product of the abdominal compression reaction, a maneuver that helps to maintain venous return during cardiovascular challenge.
Previous studies have shown that identified neurons of the nucleus of the solitary tract (NST) are excited by the cytokine tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha). Vagal afferent connections with the NST are predominantly glutaminergic. Therefore, we hypothesized that TNF-alpha effects on NST neurons may be via modulation of glutamate neurotransmission. The present study used activation of the immediate early gene product c-Fos as a marker for neuronal activation in the NST. c-Fos expression was evaluated after microinjections of TNF-alpha in the presence or absence of either the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid receptor antagonist 1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-6-nitro-2,3-dioxo-benzo[f]quinoxaline-7-sulfonamide disodium (NBQX) or the N-methyl-D- aspartate (NMDA) antagonist MK-801. To assess the specificity of the interaction between TNF-alpha and glutamate, c-Fos expression was also evaluated after injection of oxytocin (OT) (which has a direct excitatory effect in this area of the brain stem) in the presence and absence of NBQX or MK-801. c-Fos labeling was significantly increased in the NST after TNF-alpha exposure. Coinjection of either NBQX or MK-801 with TNF-alpha prevented significant c-Fos induction in the NST. Microinjections of OT also induced significant NST c-Fos elevation, but this expression was unaffected by coinjection of either antagonist with OT. These data lead us to conclude that TNF-alpha activation of NST neurons depends on glutamate and such an interaction is not generalized to all agonists that act on the NST.



The processing of Kanizsa-square illusory figures was studied in two experiments with four humans and two chimpanzees. Subjects of the two species were initially trained to select a Kanizsa-square illusory figure presented in a computerized two-alternative forced choice task. After training, adding narrow closing segments to the pacman inducers that composed the Kanisza illusory figures lowered performance in both chimpanzees and humans, suggesting that the discrimination could be controlled by the perception of illusory forms. A second experiment assessed transfer of performance with five sets of figures in which the size of the inducers and their separation were manipulated. Only for chimpanzees was performance directly controlled by separation, suggesting that chimpanzees are more sensitive than humans to the separation between visual elements.
We report on the case of a 20-year-old man with bilateral parasagittal parieto-occipital polymicrogyria and epilepsy. Functional magnetic resonance imaging responses to reversing checkerboard and interhemispheric electroencephalogram coherence changes to moving gratings were investigated. Results of both studies indicate that the polymicrogyric cortex was activated by visual stimuli, suggesting preserved function in the dysplastic area.
Recent studies have demonstrated the activation of caspase-1 and caspase-3 in mice expressing mutant superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1), models of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Caspase-1 converts the prointerleukin-1beta into a potent proinflammatory molecule involved in the innate immune response and in neurodegenerative diseases. We report on the chronic expression of interleukin-1beta mRNA in the spinal cord of SOD1G37R mice, together with robust mRNA expression for the nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) inhibitor IkappaBalpha, for other proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines (interleukin-6, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, monocyte chemoattractant protein-1) and for the toll-like receptor TLR2 involved in innate immunity. To further assess the interleukin-1beta contribution to neurodegeneration, we generated mice expressing SOD1G37R in a context of interleukin-1beta gene knockout. Surprisingly, the absence of interleukin-1beta had no effect on the life span of SOD1G37R mice, nor on the extent of motor axon degeneration at age 7 and 10 months. Whereas neither compensatory induction of the interleukin-1alpha mRNA nor increases in mRNA levels for IkappaBalpha, tumor necrosis factor-alpha and macrophage chemoattractant protein-1 occurred as a result of interleukin-1beta gene disruption, enhanced levels of TLR2 mRNA were detected in SOD1G37R mice lacking interleukin-1beta. We conclude that interleukin-1beta does not directly contribute to motor neuron degeneration in SOD1G37R mice, but it may act as a modulator of the innate immune response.



The cerebellum is a neural structure that is essential for agility in vertebrate movements. Its contribution to motor control appears to be due to a fundamental role in dynamical state estimation, which also underlies its role in various non-motor tasks. Single spikes in vestibular sensory neurons carry information about head state. We show how computations for optimal dynamical state estimation may be accomplished when signals are encoded in spikes. This provides a novel way to design dynamical state estimators, and a novel way to interpret the structure and function of the cerebellum.
Currently, the behavioural phenotyping of mutant strains is restricted by the paucity of tests for the cognitive capabilities of mice. Most of the paradigms at present available such as the water maze or passive avoidance are dependent upon an aversive component for conditioning and as a consequence the data can often be confounded by the non-specific effects of stress. The development of mutant or transgenic mouse models of human diseases that effect cognitive function will require this confound to be overcome. Here we highlight the value of using two apparently different paradigms, one exploring circadian control and the other visuospatial attention. The first provides an example of an elicited behaviour while the second requires learning; neither is aversive in nature. Interestingly, the data from each strengthens the interpretation of both.
This review focuses on factors influencing behaviour in the elevated plus-maze, the holeboard and the social transmission of food preference. The elevated plus-maze provides independent measures of anxiety (percentage of time spent on open arms) and activity (number of closed arm entries) and can be used in both males and females. Important sex differences emerge in factor loadings, and, whereas in males, anxiety is the primary factor, in females it is activity. On trial 2 in the plus-maze, the nature of the anxiety state is changed and thus this maze can be used to screen for possible genetic alterations in two distinct anxiety states. The holeboard provides independent measures of exploration and locomotor activity and habituation between sessions provides a useful measure of learning. Mice display neophobia and avoid novel foods, but information about their safety can be socially transmitted. A mouse that has sampled a novel food will be actively sniffed by others on its return to the colony. It is important to control for possible changes in social investigation, neophobia, olfactory sensitivity, anxiety and exploration, before it is concluded that a changed performance in this task is due to changes in learning.
The endogenous circadian clock of mammals retains synchrony with the external light:dark cycle through ocular photoreceptors. To date the identity of the photoreceptors responsible for mediating this response is unknown. This review outlines attempts using transgenic mouse models to address this deficit. Mice bearing specific inherited lesions of both rod and cone photoreceptors retain circadian photosensitivity as assessed by photoentrainment of behavioural rhythms and the light-induced suppression of pineal melatonin. These findings indicate that as yet unidentified non-rod, non-cone ocular photoreceptors are capable of contributing to circadian light responses. Nevertheless, the possibility that circadian photosensitivity is the responsibility of multiple photoreceptor classes including both rod/cone and novel photopigments remains. There is some indirect evidence in favour of this hypothesis. A definitive resolution of this issue is likely to employ comparisons of circadian action spectra in wild type and retinally degenerate mice.
The increasing popularity of the mouse as a subject in basic science studies of pain can largely be attributed to the development of transgenic &quot;knockout&quot; technology in this species only. To take advantage of this biological technique, many investigators are rushing to adapt to the mouse experimental protocols that were designed for the rat. However, the myriad physiological and behavioral differences between these two rodent species render such adaptations non-trivial and in many cases seriously problematic. In this article we review the basic nociceptive assays used in behavioral pain research (thermal, mechanical, electrical and chemical), and highlight how species differences affect their proper application. In addition, some of the issues specifically pertaining to the interpretation of such data in knockout studies are addressed.
Rapid advances in biotechnology have created new demands for tests of mouse behaviour having both high reliability and high throughput for mass screening. This paper discusses several statistical and psychological factors pertinent to replication of results in different laboratories, and it considers the question of which inbred strains are best for test standardization. In this context, the problem of absent corpus callosum in the 129 strains is addressed with data from a recent study of six diverse tests of behaviour, and it is shown that effects of absent corpus callosum are usually nonsignificant and/or very small. Whether any 129 substrain is to be included in the list of standard strains depends on the goal of the standardization--collecting diverse phenotypic data on most available strains by a few expert investigators (the gold standard) or refining behavioural tests in order to establish a normal range of behaviour that can be used to judge a wider range of strains or even an individual mouse.
There is overwhelming evidence for the existence of substantial genetic influences on individual differences in general and specific cognitive abilities, especially in adults. The actual localization and identification of genes underlying variation in cognitive abilities and intelligence has only just started, however. Successes are currently limited to neurological mutations with rather severe cognitive effects. The current approaches to trace genes responsible for variation in the normal ranges of cognitive ability consist of large scale linkage and association studies. These are hampered by the usual problems of low statistical power to detect quantitative trait loci (QTLs) of small effect. One strategy to boost the power of genomic searches is to employ endophenotypes of cognition derived from the booming field of cognitive neuroscience. This special issue of Behavior Genetics reports on one of the first genome-wide association studies for general IQ. A second paper summarizes candidate genes for cognition, based on animal studies. A series of papers then introduces two additional levels of analysis in the &quot;black box&quot; between genes and cognitive ability: (1) behavioral measures of information-processing speed (inspection time, reaction time, rapid naming) and working memory capacity (performance on on single or dual tasks of verbal and spatio-visual working memory), and (2) electrophyiosological derived measures of brain function (e.g., event-related potentials). The obvious way to assess the reliability and validity of these endophenotypes and their usefulness in the search for cognitive ability genes is through the examination of their genetic architecture in twin family studies. Papers in this special issue show that much of the association between intelligence and speed-of-information processing/brain function is due to a common gene or set of genes, and thereby demonstrate the usefulness of considering these measures in gene-hunting studies for IQ.
The phenotype of NK1R-/- mice was compared with that of acute pharmacological blockade of the tachykinin NK1 receptor on sensorimotor function and in assays relevant to depressive illness and anxiety. The dose range for L-760735 and GR205171 that was associated with functional blockade of central NK1 receptors in the target species was established by antagonism of the behavioural effects of intracerebroventricular NK1 agonist challenge in gerbils, mice and rats. The caudal grooming and scratching response to GR73632 was absent in NK1R-/- mice, confirming that the receptor had been genetically ablated. There was no evidence of sedation or motor impairment in NK1R-/- mice or following administration of L-760735 to gerbils, even at doses in excess of those required for central NK1 receptor occupancy. In the resident-intruder and forced swim test, the behaviour of NK1R-/- mice, or animals treated acutely with L-760735 or GR205171, resembled that seen with the clinically used antidepressant drug fluoxetine. However, the effects of GR205171 were not clearly enantioselective in mice. In contrast, although NK1R-/- mice also exhibited an increase in the duration of struggle behaviour in the tail suspension test, this was not observed following pharmacological blockade with L-760735 in gerbils or GR205171 in mice, suggesting that this may reflect a developmental alteration in the knockout mouse. There was no effect of NK1 receptor blockade with L-760735 in guinea-pigs or GR205171 in rats, or deletion of the NK1 receptor in mice, on behaviour in the elevated plus-maze test for anxiolytic activity. These findings extend previous observations on the phenotype of the NK1R-/- mouse and establish a broadly similar profile following acute pharmacological blockade of the receptor. These studies also serve to underscore the limitations of currently available antagonists that are suitable for use in rat and mouse behavioural assays.
In the present study, the effect of the blockade of membrane calcium channels activated by intracellular Ca(2+) store depletion on basal and depolarization-induced [3H]norepinephrine ([3H]NE) release from SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells was examined. The second-generation H(1) receptor blockers astemizole, terfenadine, and loratadine, as well as the first-generation compound hydroxyzine, inhibited [3H]NE release induced by high extracellular K(+) concentration ([K(+)](e)) depolarization in a concentration-dependent manner (the IC(50)s were 2.3, 1.7, 4.8, and 9.4 microM, respectively). In contrast, the more hydrophilic second-generation H(1) receptor blocker cetirizine was completely ineffective (0.1-30 microM). The inhibition of high [K(+)](e)-induced [3H]NE release by H(1) receptor blockers seems to be related to their ability to inhibit Ca(2+) channels activated by Ca(i)(2+) store depletion (SOCs). In fact, astemizole, terfenadine, loratadine, and hydroxyzine, but not cetirizine, displayed a dose-dependent inhibitory action on the increase in intracellular Ca(2+) concentrations ([Ca(2+)](i)) obtained with extracellular Ca(2+) reintroduction after Ca(i)(2+) store depletion with thapsigargin (1 microM), an inhibitor of the sarcoplasmic-endoplasmic reticulum calcium ATPase (SERCA) pump. The rank order of potency for SOC inhibition by these compounds closely correlated with their inhibitory properties on depolarization-induced [3H]NE release from SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells. Nimodipine (1 microM) plus omega-conotoxin (100 nM) did not interfere with the present model for SOC activation. In addition, the inhibition of depolarization-induced [3H]NE release does not seem to be attributable to the blockade of the K(+) currents carried by the K(+) channels encoded by the human Ether-a-Gogo Related Gene (I(HERG)) by these antihistamines. In fact, whole-cell voltage-clamp experiments revealed that the IC(50) for astemizole-induced hERG blockade is about 300-fold lower than that for the inhibition of high K(+)-induced [3H]NE release. Furthermore, current-clamp experiments in SH-SY5Y cells showed that concentrations of astemizole (3 microM) which were effective in preventing depolarization-induced [3H]NE release were unable to interfere with the cell membrane potential under depolarizing conditions (100 mM [K(+)](e)), suggesting that hERG K(+) channels do not contribute to membrane potential control during exposure to elevated [K(+)](e). Collectively, the results of the present study suggest that, in SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells, the inhibition of SOCs by some second-generation antihistamines can prevent depolarization-induced neurotransmitter release.
The chromatophores of cephalopods differ fundamentally from those of other animals: they are neuromuscular organs rather than cells and are not controlled hormonally. They constitute a unique motor system that operates upon the environment without applying any force to it. Each chromatophore organ comprises an elastic sacculus containing pigment, to which is attached a set of obliquely striated radial muscles, each with its nerves and glia. When excited the muscles contract, expanding the chromatophore; when they relax, energy stored in the elastic sacculus retracts it. The physiology and pharmacology of the chromatophore nerves and muscles of loliginid squids are discussed in detail. Attention is drawn to the multiple innervation of dorsal mantle chromatophores, of crucial importance in pattern generation. The size and density of the chromatophores varies according to habit and lifestyle. Differently coloured chromatophores are distributed precisely with respect to each other, and to reflecting structures beneath them. Some of the rules for establishing this exact arrangement have been elucidated by ontogenetic studies. The chromatophores are not innervated uniformly: specific nerve fibres innervate groups of chromatophores within the fixed, morphological array, producing 'physiological units' expressed as visible 'chromatomotor fields'. The chromatophores are controlled by a set of lobes in the brain organized hierarchically. At the highest level, the optic lobes, acting largely on visual information, select specific motor programmes (i.e. body patterns); at the lowest level, motoneurons in the chromatophore lobes execute the programmes, their activity or inactivity producing the patterning seen in the skin. In Octopus vulgaris there are over half a million neurons in the chromatophore lobes, and receptors for all the classical neurotransmitters are present, different transmitters being used to activate (or inhibit) the different colour classes of chromatophore motoneurons. A detailed understanding of the way in which the brain controls body patterning still eludes us: the entire system apparently operates without feedback, visual or proprioceptive. The gross appearance of a cephalopod is termed its body pattern. This comprises a number of components, made up of several units, which in turn contains many elements: the chromatophores themselves and also reflecting cells and skin muscles. Neural control of the chromatophores enables a cephalopod to change its appearance almost instantaneously, a key feature in some escape behaviours and during agonistic signalling. Equally important, it also enables them to generate the discrete patterns so essential for camouflage or for signalling. The primary function of the chromatophores is camouflage. They are used to match the brightness of the background and to produce components that help the animal achieve general resemblance to the substrate or break up the body's outline. Because the chromatophores are neurally controlled an individual can, at any moment, select and exhibit one particular body pattern out of many. Such rapid neural polymorphism ('polyphenism') may hinder search-image formation by predators. Another function of the chromatophores is communication. Intraspecific signalling is well documented in several inshore species, and interspecific signalling, using ancient, highly conserved patterns, is also widespread. Neurally controlled chromatophores lend themselves supremely well to communication, allowing rapid, finely graded and bilateral signalling.
Fifteen percent of the mutations causing familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy are in the troponin T gene. Most mutations are clustered between residues 79 and 179, a region known to bind to tropomyosin at the C-terminus near the complex between the N- and C-termini. Nine mutations were introduced into a troponin T fragment, Gly-hcTnT(70-170), that is soluble, alpha-helical, binds to tropomyosin, promotes the binding of tropomyosin to actin, and stabilizes an overlap complex of N-terminal and C-terminal tropomyosin peptides. Mutations between residues 92 and 110 (Arg92Leu, Arg92Gln, Arg92Trp, Arg94Leu, Ala104Val, and Phe110Ile) impair tropomyosin-dependent functions of troponin T. Except for Ala104Val, these mutants bound less strongly to a tropomyosin affinity column and were less able to stabilize the TM overlap complex, effects that were correlated with increased stability of the troponin T, measured using circular dichroism. All were less effective in promoting the binding of tropomyosin to actin. Mutations within residues 92-110 may cause disease because of altered interaction with tropomyosin at the overlap region, critical for cooperative actin binding and regulatory function. A model for a five-chained coiled-coil for troponin T in the tropomyosin overlap complex is presented. Mutations outside the region (Ile79Asn, Delta 160Glu, and Glu163Lys) functioned normally and must cause disease by another mechanism.


Targeting of dorsal root ganglia by diabetes could account for the selective sensory abnormalities that patients with early diabetic polyneuropathy develop. In this work, we addressed survival, phenotype and gene expression in sensory neurones in lumbar dorsal root ganglia in a long-term model of experimental streptozotocin-induced diabetes in rats, designed to reflect human disease. Motor and sensory conduction slowing developed early, by the 2-month time point. At 2 months, sensory neurones had no detectable alterations in their calibre or gene expression, assessed using quantitative in situ hybridization studies for mRNA markers that included alpha CGRP, beta CGRP, NFM, t alpha 1-tubulin, SP, VIP, B50 (GAP43), galanin, somatostatin, PACAP, HSP27, c-jun, SNAP 25, p75, TrkA, TrkB and TrkC. By 12 months, however, diabetics had developed neurone perikaryal and distal axon atrophy, accompanied by generalized downregulation of mRNA expression, particularly of CGRP transcripts, PACAP, SP, NFM, p75, trkA and trkC. With the exception of HSP-27, no elevation in mRNAs that increase after injury, such as VIP, galanin, CCK, PACAP, B50 and t alpha 1-tubulin, was observed and constitutive levels, when detectable, trended towards lower rather than increased levels. There was relative preservation of neurone numbers at 12 months; only a non-significant trend towards fewer diabetic neurones was detected using a rigorous and systematic physical dissector counting approach through the entire L5 ganglia. There was no change in the relative populations of CGRP- and SP-immunoreactive neurones. Our findings indicate that even long-term experimental diabetes is associated with relative preservation of sensory neurone populations, but the neurones are atrophic and their gene expression is altered. This pattern of change differs from that following axotomy, implies a degenerative rather than an injury phenotype and has important implications for how such neurones might be rescued.
For the critical lesions and pathomechanism of early-infantile epileptic encephalopathy (EIEE) with suppression-bursts, we investigated the brains of EIEE, early myoclonic encephalopathy (EME), and West syndrome (WS) patients using immunohistochemical technique and neuropathological examination. We could compare with the results of these diseases. The EIEE patients had the most severe lesions, which were in the putamen, thalamus, hippocampus as well as the tegmentum of the brainstem. Among the syndromes, EIEE brains showed the most expanded lesions. Tyrosine hydroxylase-immunopositive cells and fibers were not demonstrated in EIEE, but were detected in WS. Reduced tyrosine hydroxylase immunoexpression in the EIEE brains was in the putamen, globus pallidus, and substantia nigra. Tryptophan hydroxylase immunoreactivity was reduced in the three epileptic syndromes, but especially in EIEE. Reduced expression of tyrosine hydroxylase and tryptophan hydroxylase may demonstrate dysfunction of the catecholaminergic and serotonergic neurons. From this study, the lesions in EIEE were widespread, including in the lower brainstem and cerebellum, compared with in EME and WS. Dysfunction of the catecholaminergic and serotonergic systems could be suggested. These characteristic changes may lead to the pathophysiology of EIEE.
Vigabatrin (VGB) was found to be an effective anti-epileptic drug to reduce infantile spasms in about 50% of patients and it has been found most effective in infantile spasms due to tuberous sclerosis (TSC) in which up to 95% of infants had complete cessation of their spasms. VGB was synthesized to enhance inhibitory gamma-aminobutyric acidergic (GABAergic) transmission by elevating GABA levels via irreversible inhibition of GABA transaminase. The mechanism underlying the particular efficacy of VGB in TSC is still unknown. However, its efficacy suggests that epileptogenesis in TSC may be related to an impairment of GABAergic transmission. VGB should be considered as the first line monotheraphy for the treatment of infantile spasms in infants with confirmed diagnosis of TSC. The efficacy of VGB treatment can be assessed in less than 10 days, but usually a few days treatment with a dose of about 100 mg/kg/day stops infantile spasms. The cessation of the spasms is associated with a marked improvement of behaviour and mental development. Unfortunately, it has become clear that the use of VGB is associated with a late appearance of visual-field defects in up to 50% of patients. Currently the minimum duration and doses of VGB treatment that can produce side effects are unknown. The feasibility of using short treatment periods (2-3 months) should be investigated.
The incidence of West syndrome (WS) was determined by a search of reports of electroencephalograms (EEG) recorded in 1998 and 1999 in all public hospitals in Singapore. Amongst records of patients born in 1998, nine were found with EEG features of hypsarrhythmia or modified hypsarrhythmia with onset of seizures between January 1,1998 and December 31, 1999. The medical records of these patients were reviewed. The population of children born in 1998 was 43,664. In 1998 and 1999, 67% of all hospital admissions for patients 2 years or younger in Singapore were in public hospitals. The cumulative incidence of WS in Singapore corrected for the percentage of hospital admissions to public hospitals was 3.1/10,000 live births. The corrected cumulative incidences in Chinese, Malays and Indians were 2.7, 3.1 and 3.3 per 10,000, respectively. Three cases were idiopathic; three were due to congenital structural lesions of the brain; one each had periventricular leucomalacia, intracranial hemorrhage and severe intrauterine growth retardation. None of the patients were normal at follow up. The three patients with idiopathic WS had mild global developmental delay and the other six cases had cerebral palsy and severe mental retardation. With the best modern medical treatment, possibly only two of the nine cases of WS may have been prevented.
Both West syndrome (WS) and Lennox-Gastaut syndrome (LGS) are associated with various developmental disorders and it has been discussed whether the cerebral cortex or subcortical structures are important in the pathogenesis of both epileptic syndromes. Here we briefly review the literature on the neuropathological findings in WS and LGS, and present our data on immunohistochemical analysis of the brainstem and limbic lesions in autopsy cases of lissencephaly and sequels of hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy (HIE) caused by perinatal asphyxia manifested as both WS and LGS (WS/LGS). Nowadays, the neuroradiological examinations and surgical pathology in WS cases demonstrate dysplastic cerebral lesions more frequently than previously expected. On the other hand, we have delineated the common brainstem lesions such as small size of the tegmentum and spongy state and/or gliosis in the central tegmental tract in a number of WS autopsy cases of various etiologies. Recently, we reported the reduced expression of tyrosine hydroxylase, methionine enkephalin and parvalbumin in the brainstem in autopsy cases of lissencephaly and sequels of HIE manifested as WS/LGS, regardless of the cerebral changes. In the same subjects, we examined the expression of glutamate transporters and calcium-binding proteins in the limbic system by immunohistochemistry. These represent markers of glutamate neurotoxicity and the GABAergic inhibitory neuron system, respectively. The altered expressions of glial glutamate transporters and calcium-binding proteins in the limbic system seemed to reflect temporal lobe sclerosis, irrespective of the past history of WS, and there were no differences in the limbic involvement between the cases manifested as WS/LGS and disease controls of sequels of HIE not manifested as WS/LGS. It is more likely that the brainstem lesions contribute to the pathogenesis of WS and/or LGS more than the heterogeneous limbic lesions in these cases.
The high incidence of infantile spasms (IS) and hypsarrhythmia in tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) has long been emphasized but it is now clear that infants with TSC show clinical and EEG differences from those with classical West syndrome. Seizures at onset are mainly characterized by partial motor seizures and IS. Subtle partial seizures may be present in the early neonatal period and may precede the onset of IS. Visual recording techniques have led to significant progress in the classification of seizures associated with TSC, demonstrating that they have a focal or multifocal origin in the vast majority of cases. In most cases, an awake interictal EEG shows focal or independent multifocal spike and slow-wave activity at onset and later a pseudo-hypsarrhythmic pattern. Ictal EEG starts with focal spikes originating from the posterotemporal, or occipital regions followed by a generalized irregular slow transient and an abrupt diffuse flattening. Although the pathophysiological mechanisms responsible for the coexistence of partial seizures and IS are still unclear, IS associated with TSC may be the result of a rapid secondary generalization. The presence of IS due to TSC is strongly predicted by the cortical tuber count, while the age of onset of seizures and the age of occurrence of EEG foci depend on the localization of cortical tubers with an earlier expression of the parieto-occipital than of the frontal regions. Early recognition of these distinctive features appears worthwhile for therapeutic and prognostic implications. Despite the efficacy of vigabatrin the prognosis of IS is generally poor. Studies using combined topographic mapping of EEG, magnetic resonance imaging and positron emission tomography may provide new strategies for selecting candidates suitable for surgery.
Progestins and androgens modulate sexual receptivity in rodents, in part through mechanisms independent of traditional intracellular steroid receptors. Progesterone (PROG) in the ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH) and ventral tegmental (VTA) facilitates lordosis but has different actions in these brain areas. Primarily using lordosis in rodents as an in vivo experimental model, we have examined the effects that progestins exert in the midbrain and hypothalamus. Localization and blocker studies indicate that PROG's actions in the VMH require intracellular progestin receptors (PRs) but in the VTA they do not. Progestins that have rapid, membrane effects, and/or are devoid of affinity for PRs, facilitate lordosis when applied to the VTA. Manipulation of GABA and/or GABA(A)/benzodiazepine receptor complexes (GBRs) in the VTA alters lordosis, which suggests that progestins may interact with GBRs to facilitate receptivity by enhancing the function of GABAergic neurons. Interfering with PROG's metabolism to, or the biosynthesis of, 3alpha-hydroxy-5alpha-pregnan-20-one (3alpha,5alpha-TH PROG or allopregnanolone), the most effective endogenous GBR agonist, in the VTA attenuates female sexual behavior in rodents. Stimulation of mitochondrial benzodiazepine receptors (MBRs), which enhances neurosteroid production, by infusions of an MBR agonist to the VTA enhances lordosis. 3alpha,5alpha-TH PROG is increased in the midbrain of mated&gt;proestrous&gt;diestrous rodents. These data suggest that in the VTA, PROG may facilitate lordosis following metabolism to and/or biosynthesis of 3alpha,5alpha-TH PROG, which may have subsequent actions at GBRs and/or MBRs to acutely modulate female sexual behavior in rodents. The 3alpha-hydroxysteroid oxidoreduced metabolite of dihydrotestosterone (DHT), 5alpha-androstane-3alpha,17beta-diol (3alpha-androstanediol), is important for termination of sexual receptivity in rodents and has these effects in the absence of functional intracellular androgens receptors. As well, altering GBR function in the hypothalamus can influence 3alpha-androstanediol's inhibition of sexual receptivity. Through actions in the hypothalamus that are independent of intracellular androgen receptors but involving GBRs, 3alpha-androstanediol inhibits lordosis. These findings suggest that the PROG metabolite and pregnane neurosteroid, 3alpha,5alpha-TH PROG, and the testosterone metabolite and androstane neurosteroid, 3alpha-androstanediol, can have proximate influences on lordosis that is via nonclassical actions at intracellular steroid receptors.
We will describe the identity and function of two unexpected estrogen binding proteins from rat brain cell membranes in search for the putative membrane estrogen receptor (mER). An E-6-BSA column retained a distinctive 37-kDa protein that showed 100% homology with glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH). A P-3-BSA column also retained the same protein but with less affinity. E-6-BSA bound to GAPDH with an IC50 of 50 nM, whereas the IC50 for P-3-BSA was about 500 nM. A dose of 10 nM 17beta-estradiol stimulated the catalysis of GAPDH, whereas progesterone at 100 nM inhibited it. Other steroids were ineffective. We examined if GAPDH activity would change during the rat estrous cycle, and what would be the effect of ovariectomy and estrogen treatment. The hippocampus and cerebellum were collected and GAPDH catalysis in both cytosolic and plasmalemmal-microsomal fractions was tested. The highest activity was found in Proestrus morning and the lowest in Estrus in both fractions. After ovariectomy (3 weeks) the hippocampus membrane fraction showed significantly reduced activity compared to that of Diestrus. An injection of estradiol in ovariectomized rats (10 microg/rat, s.c.) increased GAPDH activity in the hippocampus membrane fractions close to 60% from that of ovariectomized oil-treated controls 24 h after treatment maintaining similar levels by 48 h. No changes were detected in the preparations from the cerebellum of the same rats. The other protein retained by E-BSA columns was a 55-kDa protein identified as beta-tubulin. Two other proteins were also co-purified from the rat hippocampus: a 37-kDa (GAPDH) and a 45-kDa (actin). A purified brain tubulin (Cytoskeleton) was also retained with high affinity by the E-6-BSA, but with less affinity by an E-17-BSA column and not retained by either BSA, P-3-BSA or C-21-BSA columns. E-6-[125I]BSA bound with high affinity to tubulin (1 microg) and 17beta-estradiol completely displaced the binding at 10(-7) M. 17alpha-estradiol was ineffective and neither progesterone, corticosterone, DES nor 2-methoxyestradiol (2-ME) was able to displace the ligand. The T-3-[125I]BSA also bound to tubulin. But it seems to interact with another binding site, because colchicine at 10(-5) M completely eliminated the binding of T-3-[125 I]BSA to tubulin but did not displace the E-6-BSA site. Taxol competed off both ligands but only by 50%. None of the two ligands bound actin. These novel findings add new information to be considered in the intracellular actions of estradiol, particularly in the remodeling and functions of the cytoskeleton.
Upon administration, certain pregnane steroids produce clear behavioural effects including, anxiolysis, sedation, analgesia, anaesthesia and are anti-convulsant. This behavioural profile is characteristic of compounds that act to enhance the actions of GABA acting at the GABA(A) receptor. In agreement, numerous studies have now demonstrated these steroids to be potent, positive allosteric modulators of the GABA(A) receptor. The pregnane steroids are synthesized in the periphery by endocrine glands such as the adrenals and the ovaries, but are also made by neurons and glial cells in the central nervous system itself. Hence, these compounds could play both an endocrine and a paracrine role to influence neuronal excitability by promoting inhibition. Here we review evidence that the pregnane steroids are highly selective and extremely potent GABA(A) receptor modulators and that their effects at 'physiological' concentrations (low nanomolar) may be influenced by the subunit composition of the GABA(A) receptor. This feature may underlie recent findings demonstrating the effects of the neurosteroids on inhibitory synaptic transmission to be brain region dependent, although recent reports suggest that phosphorylation mechanisms may additionally influence neurosteroid sensitivity of the GABA(A) receptor. Numerous synthetic steroids have been synthesized in an attempt to therapeutically exploit the behavioural effects of the pregnane steroids and progress with this approach will be discussed. However, the demonstration that the steroids may be made within the central nervous system offers the alternative strategy of targeting the enzymes that synthesize/metabolise the neurosteroids to exploit this novel endocrine/paracrine interaction.
This review summarizes the biosynthesis, cell type-distribution and function of brain aromatase cytochrome P450 (P450aro) and 5alpha-reductase enzymes. This overview covers the impact of the steroid products of the P450aro and 5alpha-reductase enzymes in establishing sexually dimorphic brain structures, specifically the sexually dimorphic nucleus of the preoptic area (SDN) and the anteroventral periventricular nucleus (AVPV). Additionally, since metabolites of the P450aro and 5alpha-reductase enzymes are known to regulate the calcium-binding protein, calbindin (CALB), CALB is reviewed in relationship to its potential role in determining sexually dimorphic brain structures. Finally, recent reports indicate that phytoestrogens inhibit P450aro and 5alpha-reductase activities in peripheral tissue sites, therefore, the effects of phytoestrogens on brain P450aro and 5alpha-reductase are briefly considered and the impact of consuming a high vs. a low phytoestrogen diet on visual spatial memory in male and female rats is presented.
We earlier isolated and characterized the mouse neurotensin receptor 1 (Ntsr1) gene and developed Ntsr1 null mice. In the present study, we isolated the mouse neurotensin receptor 2 gene (Ntsr2) and characterized the structure. The gene fragments available to us have 1.1 kb of 5' upstream promoter region and a 7 kb coding region composed of four exons. Transcription initiation sites, determined by primer extension analysis, are located at 286 and 303 bp upstream from initiation of the ATG codon. The promoter region contains a TATA-like box, a typical CAAT box and putative GATA-2, CREB, Oct-2 and Ikarous 2 binding elements. We also found novel splice donor-acceptor sites for alternative splicing, which could generate a short form of mRNA encoding a truncate-type receptor. In addition, we determined the chromosomal location of the Ntsr2 gene and mapped it at 6 cM from the centromere on chromosome 12.
Our previous studies showed that the ectopic discharges in injured sensory neurons and mechanical allodynia that developed after spinal nerve ligation were significantly reduced by application of a low concentration of tetrodotoxin (TTX) to the corresponding dorsal root ganglion (DRG) of the ligated spinal nerve. Based on these data, we hypothesized that expression of TTX-sensitive sodium channels is up-regulated in the injured sensory neurons and that such up-regulation plays an important role in the generation of ectopic discharges and thus pain behaviors in spinal nerve ligated neuropathic rats. To test this hypothesis, the present study examined the changes in three subtypes of TTX-sensitive sodium channels in the DRG after spinal nerve ligation. The changes in the total amount of mRNA for alpha-subunits of sodium channel brain type I (type I), brain type II (type II) and brain type III (type III) were determined by RNase protection assays (RPA). The population of DRG neurons expressing type III sodium channel protein was examined by an immunohistochemical method with antibodies to type III sodium channels. In the normal DRG, the level of mRNA for the type I sodium channel is high while that for type II and type III is very low. After spinal nerve ligation, the expression of type III mRNA was significantly increased at 16-h postoperatively (PO), doubled by 3 days PO and then was maintained at this high level until the end of the experiment (7 days PO). By contrast, the amount of mRNA for type I and type II sodium channels started to decrease at 1 day PO and were reduced to 25-50% of the normal control levels by 7 days after nerve ligation. Neurons showing positive immunostaining for type III sodium channels were rare ( approximately 3.2% of total population) in the normal DRG but increased after nerve ligation to 21% and 15% of the total neuronal population by 1 day and 7 days PO, respectively. Type III immunoreactivity was found preferentially in medium to large sized neurons. Thus the majority of neurons with cell bodies having diameters &gt; or =40 microm became type III-positive after nerve ligation. The data indicate that the increased expression of type III sodium channels in axotomized sensory neurons may be the critical factor for the TTX sensitivity of ectopic discharges in injured sensory neurons and thus the generation of ectopic discharges and neuropathic pain behaviors in spinal nerve ligated rats.
Persistent dephosphorylation has been implicated in the molecular mechanisms of long-term depression (LTD). Dephosphorylation may be due to either a persistent increase in phosphatase activity or a persistent decrease in kinase activity. We have previously found that protein kinase Mzeta (PKMzeta), the autonomously active form of the atypical PKCzeta isozyme that increases in long-term potentiation (LTP), decreases in LTD. This is consistent with the hypothesis that decreased levels of phosphorylation by PKC are important in LTD. Recently, however, increased phosphorylation by PKC has also been implicated in LTD. These contradictory results might be explained, in part, by the multiple isoforms of PKC, which may be independently regulated during the different phases of LTD. We now find that 45 s after low-frequency (3 Hz) stimulation that induces LTD in the CA1 region of hippocampal slices, conventional Ca(2+)/lipid-dependent PKC isoforms translocate from the cytosol to the membrane. This translocation was transient, lasting less than 15 min. In contrast, PKMzeta was persistently decreased through 2 h of LTD maintenance. Therefore, the activation and downregulation of distinct PKC isoforms may participate in the induction and maintenance mechanisms of LTD.
This article is a transcription of an electronic symposium held on November 28, 2000 in which active researchers were invited by the Brazilian Society of Neuroscience and Behavior (SBNeC) to discuss the advances of the last decade in the peptide field with particular focus on central actions of prolactin and cholecystokinin. The comments in this symposium reflect the diversity of prolactin and cholecystokinin research and demonstrate how the field has matured. Since both peptides play a role in reproductive behaviors, particularly mother-infant interactions, this was the starting point of the discussion. Recent findings on the role of the receptor subtypes as well as interaction with other peptides in this context were also discussed. Another issue discussed was the possible role of these peptides in dopamine-mediated rewarding systems. Both prolactin and cholecystokinin are involved in mechanisms controlling food intake and somatic pain thresholds. The role of peripheral inputs through vagal afferents modulating behavior was stressed. The advent of knockout animals as potential generators of new knowledge in this field was also addressed. Finally, interactions with other neuropeptides and investigation of the role of these peptides in other fields such as immunology were mentioned. Knowledge about the central functions of prolactin and cholecystokinin has shown important advances. The role of these peptides in neurological and psychiatric syndromes such as anorexia, drug abuse and physiological disturbances that lead to a compromised maternal behavior seems relevant.


Traditionally, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is considered to be a unique neurodegeneration disorder in which motor neurons are selectively vulnerable to a single disease process. Our current understanding of ALS, however, suggests that this is far too limited an approach. While motor neuron degeneration remains the central component to this process, there is considerable phenotypic variability including broad ranges in survivorship and the presence or absence of cognitive impairment. The number of familial variants of ALS for which unique genetic linkage has been identified is increasing, attesting further to the biological heterogeneity of the disorder. At the cellular level, derangements in cytoskeletal protein and glutamate metabolism, mitochondrial function, and in glial interactions are clearly evident. When considered in this fashion, ALS can be justifiably considered a disorder of multiple biological processes sharing in common the degeneration of motor neurons.

Previous neuroimaging studies have identified brain regions that underlie verbal working memory in humans. According to these studies a phonological store is located in the left inferior parietal cortex, and a complementary subvocal rehearsal mechanism is implemented by mostly left-hemispheric speech areas. In the present functional magnetic resonance imaging study, classical interfering and non-interfering dual-task situations were used to investigate further the neural correlates of verbal working memory. Verbal working memory performance under non-interfering conditions activated Broca's area, the left premotor cortex, the cortex along the left intraparietal sulcus and the right cerebellum, thus replicating the results from previous studies. By contrast, no significant memory- related activation was found in these areas when silent articulatory suppression prevented the subjects from rehearsal. Instead, this non-articulatory maintenance of phonological information was associated with enhanced activity in several other, particularly anterior prefrontal and inferior parietal, brain areas. These results suggest that phonological storage may be a function of a complex prefronto-parietal network, and not localized in only one, parietal brain region. Further possible implications for the functional organization of human working memory are discussed.
The combination of hydroxyurea (HU) and caffeine has been used for inducing kinetochore dissociation from mitotic chromosomes and for causing centrosome/spindle pole amplification. However, these effects on microtubule organizing centers (MTOCs) are limited to certain cell types. It was reasoned that if the biochemical differences in MTOC behavior between cells following HU treatment could be identified, then critical information concerning the regulation of these organelles would be obtained. During these studies, it was determined that cells from hamster, rat, and deer could be induced to enter mitosis with dissociated kinetochores and to synthesize centrosomes during arrest with HU, while cells from human and mouse could not. Comparisons between human HeLa cells and CHO cells determined that cyclin A levels were depressed in HeLa cells relative to CHO cells following HU addition. Overexpression of cyclin A in HeLa cells converted them to a cell type capable of detaching kinetochores from mitotic chromosomes. Ultrastructural analyses determined that the detached human kinetochores exhibited a normal plate-like morphology and appeared capable of associating with microtubules. In addition, HeLa cells overexpressing cyclin A also overproduced spindle poles during HU arrest, demonstrating that cyclin A activity also is important for centrosome replication during interphase. In summary, elevated cyclin A levels are important for the capacity of cells to be driven into mitosis by caffeine addition, for the ability of cells to progress to mitosis with detached kinetochores, and for centrosome/spindle pole replication.
Metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR) are well known to have a significance for the plastic change of synaptic neurotransmission. We observed that mGluR can be activated not only by glutamate but also by extracellular Ca(2+) of physiological concentration. Our observation suggests that extracellular Ca(2+) plays a critical role for the neuronal function, not only by serving as a source to elevate intracellular Ca(2+) concentration by entering through various channels, but also by activating metabotropic glutamate receptors as a ligand.


In the denervated mammalian heart a change in right atrial pressure will still alter heart rate (intrinsic rate response, IRR). We have examined the IRR in isolated right atria of the guinea-pig maintained in oxygenated Krebs-Henseleit solution at 37 degrees C, to compare with and extend studies in other species, and to determine whether the guinea-pig is a suitable model for electrophysiological studies of the IRR. Baseline diastolic transmural pressure was set at 2 mmHg. A 6-mmHg increase in right atrial pressure (RAP) caused an increase in atrial rate that reached a steady value of 15 min(-1) after 1-2 min. This response was enhanced by carbamylcholine and attenuated by isoprenaline. The influence of RAP on the rate response to vagal stimulation was examined. With RAP set at 8 mmHg, the reduction in atrial rate following vagal stimulation was 72+/-5% of that at 2 mmHg (n=6, mean+/-S.E., P&lt;0.005). Continuous vagal stimulation produced a sustained bradycardia, and the effect of this bradycardia on the IRR was examined. When atrial rate was reduced 6% by vagal stimulation, the IRR was augmented to 202+/-21% of the control (n=6, P&lt;0.005). This augmentation was larger (P&lt;0.05) than that seen when atrial rate was reduced 8% by carbamylcholine (130+/-8% of control; n=7, P&lt;0.05). Overall, the IRR in the guinea-pig is similar to that in the rabbit, and shows similar interactions with the autonomic nervous system.
&quot;Expressed emotion&quot; (EE) is considered a marker of dysfunctional family interaction in patients with schizophrenia. An alternative hypothesis, however, is that at least some of the different elements of EE really represent attempts on the part of carers to cope with and care for a relative with a psychiatric disorder. EE (criticism and emotional overinvolvement) was measured in relatives (n = 31) of patients with psychotic illness using the Five-Minute Speech Sample (FMSS). Level of EE was examined in relation to (1) patient-reported family involvement in care over the previous 2 years as indicated by medication monitoring, involvement in treatment decisions, and providing a substitute for institutional care; and (2) symptom severity and number of psychotic episodes. Presence of EE in the relative was strongly associated with the degree of family involvement in care (odds ratio [OR] over three levels: 3.2; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.1 to 9.0). In addition, presence of high EE was associated with number of psychotic episodes in the previous 5 years in the proband (OR over 0, 1, or 2 episodes: 6.2; 95% CI, 1.2 to 31.9). The association with family involvement was confined to emotional overinvolvement (OR = 9.1; 95% CI, 2.0 to 42.2), whereas the association with previous psychotic episodes was confined to criticism (OR = 20.6; 95% CI, 2.8 to 149.3). Emotional overinvolvement may be a state marker for attempts on the part of relatives to be partners in the care for patients with psychotic illness. High level of criticism may be a trait marker in relatives associated with poor prognosis, but could also develop in reaction to a frequently relapsing illness.
The present study was performed in a group of bulimic (BN) females (1) to assess prevalence rates of comorbid obsessive-compulsive phenomena; (2) to investigate whether BN patients display a characteristic cluster of obsessive-compulsive symptoms; and (3) to determine whether obsessive-compulsive symptoms influence the clinical picture of BN. Thirty-eight DSM-IV BN females were interviewed by means of the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-III-R (SCID) to assess the prevalence rate of obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD); the Yale-Brown Obsessive-Compulsive Symptom Scale (Y-BOCS) Symptom Check-List was also used to evaluate the presence of obsessive-compulsive symptoms. The phenomenology of BN females with obsessive-compulsive syndromes (OCS) as detected by the Y-BOCS was compared to that shown by a &quot;control&quot; group of nonbulimic OCD females. Finally, the eating-related psychopathology of BN women with and without OCS was compared. The current prevalence rates of OCD and of subthreshold obsessive-compulsive syndrome (sOCS) in our sample were 10.5% and 15.8%, respectively. Thus, a total of 26.3% of BN females had a current OCS that comprised both clinical disorders and subthreshold syndromes. No differences were detected between obsessive-compulsive symptoms of these females and those of the control group of nonbulimic OCD females. BN females with OCS had higher ratings on the Eating Disorder Inventory (EDI) total score and on the &quot;drive for thinness&quot; and the &quot;bulimia&quot; items of the scale, as compared to BN females without OCS. In conclusion, it appears that a considerable proportion of BN females display OCS, which sometimes are not severe enough to fulfill diagnostic criteria for OCD. Moreover, in these patients, obsessive-compulsive symptoms are undistinguishable from those of OCD females, and exert a negative influence on the clinical picture of the bulimic disorder.
We present a hybrid system for automatic analysis of clinical routine EEG, comprising a spectral analysis and an expert system. EEG raw data are transformed into the time-frequency domain by the so-called adaptive frequency decomposition. The resulting frequency components are converted into pseudo-linguistic facts via fuzzification. Finally, an expert system applies symbolic rules formulated by the neurologist to evaluate the extracted EEG features. The system detects artefacts, describes alpha rhythm by frequency, amplitude, and stability and after artefact rejection detects pathologic slow activity. All results are displayed as linguistic terms, numerical values and maps of temporal extent, giving an overview about the clinical routine EEG.
This paper describes the non-commercial software system LIPSIA that was developed for the processing of functional magnetic resonance images (fMRI) of the human brain. The analysis of fMRI data comprises various aspects including filtering, spatial transformation, statistical evaluation as well as segmentation and visualization. In LIPSIA, particular emphasis was placed on the development of new visualization and segmentation techniques that support visualizations of individual brain anatomy so that experts can assess the exact location of activation patterns in individual brains. As the amount of data that must be handled is enormous, another important aspect in the development LIPSIA was the efficiency of the software implementation. Well established statistical techniques were used whenever possible.
The feasibility of administering the pain reliever acetaminophen to rats via their water bottles was examined in this study. Two different preparations of acetaminophen were used, a cherry-flavored suspension and an alcohol-containing solution. Both preparations of acetaminophen were diluted to 6 mg/ml by using normal drinking water. When healthy unmanipulated rats were exposed to either of the acetaminophen preparations for the first time, the animals showed a dramatic reduction in fluid intake. A marked reduction in food intake also was associated with the cherry-flavored preparation. These reductions appear to be an expression of the well-characterized neophobic response that can be demonstrated by rodents when they encounter a novel taste. This neophobic behavior suggests that administering pain relievers to rats via their drinking water is counterproductive as a means of providing pain relief.

Central nervous system (CNS) infections are diverse. CNS infections can cause significant morbidity and mortality and are markedly different from systemic infections. The closed anatomic space of the CNS, its immunologic isolation from the rest of the body, and the often nonspecific nature of the key manifestations present a challenge to the clinician. Early recognition and aggressive management are essential to patient recovery and prevention of long-term neurologic sequelae. This review discusses the major types of CNS infections and focuses on critical care management, with emphasis on current epidemiologic trends.
This article reviews the role of the D1-like dopamine receptors in Parkinson's disease (PD), an idea supported by the location of D1 receptors in key aspects of basal ganglia circuitry. The initial disappointing results with available partial D1 agonists have been replaced by optimism as newer full D1 agonists have been shown to be the only class of drugs that can decrease parkinsonism in primates to a degree comparable to levodopa. Most of the available D1 agonists, however, have been plagued by several problems, including poor bioavailability due, at least in part, to the necessity of a catechol function. Three other development issues that have hampered some members of this class are tolerance, hypotension and seizures, although some of the newer drugs entering early development may have escaped these problems. Finally, scientific advances have suggested that therapeutic profiles may be improved either by targeting only one of the two D1-like receptors or by developing drugs that can activate selectively only some D1-mediated functions. These examples suggest that it is highly likely that the immense therapeutic potential of D1 agonists will be realized both in PD and several other important CNS disorders before the end of the decade.
As heavy metal ions may be implicated in the formation of senile plaques in Alzheimer-afflicted brains, treatment with clioquinol was tested in 20 patients with Alzheimer's disease. Clioquinol is a chelator that crosses the blood-brain barrier and has greater affinity for zinc and copper ions than for calcium and magnesium ions. Treatment was given for 21 days at doses of 20 mg/day to 10 patients and 80 mg/day to another 10 patients. The study was blind to the dosages but included no controls. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) investigations revealed a significant increase at day 7 and a decrease at day 21 in Tau protein and growth-associated protein (GAP43). These proteins are increased in Alzheimer's disease and considered as rather stable markers. The initial increase may indicate a temporary cytotoxicity to the brain and/or an increased release into the CSF from stores in the tissue, possibly from senile plaques where the proteins are accumulated. The levels of CSF-Tau protein correlated positively and significantly with the serum levels of copper and also with the serum copper/zinc ratio. Clinical ratings showed slight improvement after 3 weeks treatment with clioquinol in this open study.
We screened for tau gene mutations among 24 Japanese (6 familial and 18 sporadic cases) and 4 Polish patients with frontotemporal dementia (FTD) using PCR-SSCP analysis followed by DNA sequencing. We identified 2 missense mutations in exon 10: N279K and P301L in 2 Japanese patients with familial FTD. Additionally 3 DNA polymorphisms: 2 known (3' exon 3 + 9, A --&gt; G and exon 7, codon 176, G --&gt; A) and 1 new (exon 8, codon 185, T --&gt; C) were identified in 1 Polish patient. Tau mutations were not found in subjects with a negative family history suggesting that tau mutations do not account for most sporadic cases of FTD. We also found no association of apolipoprotein E4 allele with FTD.
Ascidian tadpole larvae have a similar dorsal tubular nervous system as vertebrates. The induction of brain formation from a4.2-derived (a-line) cells requires signals from the A4.1-derived (A-line) cells. However, little is known about the mechanism underlying the development of the larval peripheral nervous system due to the lack of a suitable molecular marker. Gelsolin, an actin-binding protein, is specifically expressed in epidermal sensory neurons (ESNs) that mainly constitute the entire peripheral nervous system of the ascidian young tadpoles. Here, we address the role of cell interactions in the specification of ESNs using immunostaining with an anti-gelsolin antibody. Animal half (a4.2- and b4.2-derived) embryos did not give rise to any gelsolin-positive neurons, indicating that differentiation of ESNs requires signals from vegetal cells. Cell isolation experiments showed that A4.1 blastomeres induce gelsolin-positive neurons from a-line cells but not from b4.2-derived (b-line) cells. On the other hand, B4.1 blastomeres induce gelsolin-positive neurons both from b-line cells and a-line cells. This is in sharp contrast to the specification of brain cells which is not affected by the ablation of B4.1-derived (B-line) cells. Furthermore, basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) induced ESNs from the a-line cells and b-line cells in the absence of vegetal cells. Their competence to form ESNs was lost between the 110-cell stage and the neurula stage. Our results suggested that the specification of the a-line cells and b-line cells into ESNs is controlled by distinct inducing signals from the anterior and posterior vegetal blastomeres. ESNs in the trunk appear to be derived from the a8.26 blastomeres aligning on the edge of presumptive neural region where ascidian homologue of Pax3 is expressed. These findings highlight the close similarity of ascidian ESNs development with that of vertebrate placode and neural crest.
A recent study identifies a novel nonautonomous signaling pathway that regulates cell migration and differentiation in early Drosophila mesodermal tissues.
The emergence of the laboratory mouse as a favored species for genetic research has posed a number of problems for scientists interested in the reflection of genetic influences in mouse behavior. It is commonly thought that rat behavior, which has been studied more extensively than mouse behavior, could be easily generalized to mice. In this article, a number of categories of behavior displayed by the mouse (motor, spatial, defensive, social) are reviewed and contrasted with the same categories of behavior displayed by the rat. The comparison suggests that mouse behavior is simpler and more dependent upon elementary actions than the behavior of the rat. We suggest that the behavioral simplification in the mouse adapts it for a different ecological niche than that occupied by the rat. We propose that this simplification may be mediated by accelerated brain maturation during development. We further propose that this developmental acceleration in the mouse renders it less dependent upon complex social behavior and plastic nervous system changes associated with learning than the rat. This difference poses problems for the development of relevant methods of behavioral analysis and interpretation. Since the mouse's biological adaptations will be reflected in laboratory behavior, suggestions are made for behavioral approaches to the study and interpretation of mouse behavior.
Nine and 12-week-old infants (N = 140) who were either calm or crying sat facing a researcher for 3.5 min. The researcher gazed into the infant's eyes with a smiling face or looked above the infant's forehead. She delivered a 12% sucrose solution via a syringe or a pacifier, or she did not deliver anything. After the exposure period, the mother held her infant over her shoulder. Infant gaze direction was recorded while the infant faced the same researcher and a stranger. The confluence of sweet taste and eye contact was necessary and sufficient for calm 9- and 12-week-olds to form a preference for the researcher. Crying infants never did so, even though eye contact and sweet taste arrested crying. Different visual-gustatory combinations induced unanticipated affective states and are discussed within the contexts of cognitive mechanisms that mediate face learning and preference, the proximate mechanisms involved, and the evolutionary significance of face recognition.
We demonstrate that signaling via the bone morphogenetic protein receptor IA (BMPR-IA) is required to establish two of the three cardinal axes of the limb: the proximal-distal axis and the dorsal-ventral axis. We generated a conditional knockout of the gene encoding BMPR-IA (Bmpr) that disrupted BMP signaling in the limb ectoderm. In the most severely affected embryos, this conditional mutation resulted in gross malformations of the limbs with complete agenesis of the hindlimbs. The proximal-distal axis is specified by the apical ectodermal ridge (AER), which forms from limb ectoderm at the distal tip of the embryonic limb bud. Analyses of the expression of molecular markers, such as Fgf8, demonstrate that formation of the AER was disrupted in the Bmpr mutants. Along the dorsal/ventral axis, loss of engrailed 1 (En1) expression in the non-ridge ectoderm of the mutants resulted in a dorsal transformation of the ventral limb structures. The expression pattern of Bmp4 and Bmp7 suggest that these growth factors play an instructive role in specifying dorsoventral pattern in the limb. This study demonstrates that BMPR-IA signaling plays a crucial role in AER formation and in the establishment of the dorsal/ventral patterning during limb development.
This meeting report summarizes advances and notable developments in the pharmaceutical management of urological diseases presented at various sessions during the Annual Meeting of the American Urological Association held in Anaheim, California, June 2-7, 2001. More than 10,000 attendees drawn from clinical and preclinical research deliberated on the latest trends in surgical and pharmacotherapeutic management in diverse areas of urology. In particular, several forums were dedicated to reviewing scientific trends, emerging concepts and therapies in urological diseases, such as overactive bladder, erectile dysfunction and lower urinary tract symptoms, which are the focus of this report.
The distribution and physiological role of the neuropeptide, arginine vasopressin (AVP), and its three receptor subtypes, V1a, V1b and V2, has been well described. A fourth AVP receptor, VACM-1, was recently discovered and appears to be a member of the cullin gene family. The objective of this research is to characterize VACM-1 receptor mRNA expression in the CNS as well as in various tissues and organs of the laboratory rat. Northern blotting of poly(A) + RNA from various tissues demonstrated the size of VACM-1 MRNA in the rat is approximately 6.3 kb. RT-PCR indicated the transcript is present in all twelve tissues examined: brainstem, cerebral cortex, cerebellum, hypothalamus, aorta, gastrointestinal tract, heart, kidney medulla, liver, lung, skeletal muscle, and spleen. Quantitative realtime PCR confirmed RT-PCR results that VACM-1 mRNA is in all organs and tissues and expression levels are similar in all tissues examined. The transcript encoding VACM-1, a novel AVP receptor, appears to be ubiquitously expressed in various tissues of the laboratory rat. VACM-1 shares some similarities with both V1 and V2 receptors, as it binds AVP analogues that independently recognized either of these receptors. Therefore, many functions ascribed to activation of the previously known AVP receptors could at least in part be mediated by VACM-1.
We have previously found that lactotrophs express and secrete endothelin-like peptides that influence prolactin (PRL) secretion in an autocrine fashion. We have also observed that the incidence of endothelin-immunoreactive lactotrophs is markedly affected by ovarian steroids. In this study, we examined how the ovarian steroid background determines the efficiency of the endothelin-mediated autocrine feedback regulation of PRL secretion. Ovariectomized adult female rats were used throughout these studies. Steroid replacements were made by sc implantation of Silastic capsules immediately following ovariectomy. Eight to 10 wk later, three animals from each treatment group (no steroid control, estradiol, progesterone, estradiol plus progesterone) were sacrificed by decapitation, and the anterior pituitary cells were enzymatically dispersed using collagenase and hyaluronidase. A PRL-specific reverse hemolytic plaque assay was used to measure PRL secretion at the single-cell level. BQ123, a synthetic cyclic pentapeptide with distinctive endothelin-A receptor antagonist quality, caused only a modest elevation of PRL secretion in the control group. Endothelin antagonism did not affect PRL secretion in cells obtained from progesterone-implanted animals. Endothelin antagonism did, however, increase overall PRL secretion in the estradiol and estradiol plus progesterone groups by five- and threefold, respectively. Frequency distribution of PRL plaques in these same two BQ123-treated groups revealed two subpopulations, indicating that lactotrophs differ in their response to endogenous endothelin feedback and that this difference is steroid dependent. These observations clearly suggest that the ovarian steroid milieu (estrogens in particular) can have a profound influence on the self-regulatory mechanisms of lactotrophs. Our results also emphasize that endogenous endothelins may play an important role in the negative feedback regulation of PRL secretion in female rats.
During development there is novel expression of NPY mRNA in the dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus (DMH) and perifornical region (PFR), in addition to the arcuate nucleus (ARH). Furthermore, NPY mRNA levels peak in all regions on postnatal d 16 (P16) and decrease to adult levels by P30. The purpose of the present study was to determine whether NPY and agouti-related protein (AGRP) mRNA expression in the different hypothalamic regions on P11 and P16 are similarly affected by fasting. An examination of the full rostral to caudal extent of the hypothalamus revealed two additional regions displaying novel NPY mRNA expression, the parvocellular division of the paraventricular nucleus (PVH) and lateral hypothalamus (LH). Maternal deprivation for 36 h, used to bring about a fast, similarly increased (23-29%) NPY and AGRP mRNA expression in the ARH on P11 and P16. In contrast, NPY expression in the DMH and PFR were significantly decreased (19-30% and 48-53%, respectively), whereas NPY mRNA levels in the PVH and LH were not altered by this treatment. The increase in NPY and AGRP mRNA expression in the ARH in response to maternal deprivation suggests that these neuronal populations respond to signals of energy balance. In contrast, NPY expression in the DMH, PFR, PVH, and LH is differentially regulated by maternal deprivation or other factors associated with maternal separation.
Landau-Kleffner syndrome (LKS), or acquired epileptiform aphasia, is an epilepsy syndrome involving progressive neuropsychological impairment related to the appearance of paroxysmal electroencephalograph (EEG) activity. LKS appears to share a common pathophysiologic mechanism with continuous spike-wave of sleep (CSWS), acquired epileptic opercular syndrome (AEOS), and even benign childhood epilepsy with centrotemporal spikes (BECTS), with differentiating factors including age of onset, area of primary epileptogenicity, and severity of clinical presentation. This article covers the clinical, diagnostic, therapeutic, and prognostic features of LKS. In a child with autistic spectrum disorder, the presence of a fluctuating clinical course or regression should raise suspicion for the presence of associated epilepsy.
The aim of this large cross-sectional population-based study was to examine a possible positive or negative association between thyroid dysfunction and headache. Between 1995 and 1997, all 92 566 adults in Nord-Trndelag County in Norway were invited to participate in a health survey. A total of 51 383 (56%) responded to a headache questionnaire, whereof thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) was measured in 28 058 individuals. These included 15 465 women and 8019 men above 40 years of age, 1767 randomly selected individuals between 20 and 40 years of age, and 2807 (97%) with thyroid dysfunction. Associations between thyroid dysfunction and headache were assessed in multivariate analyses, estimating prevalence odds ratios (OR) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs). High TSH values were associated with low prevalence of headache. This was most evident amongst women with no history of thyroid dysfunction. Amongst these, headache was less probable (OR=0.5, 95% CI 0.3-0.7) if TSH &gt; or = 10 mU/l than in women with normal TSH (0.2-4 mU/l). In all age groups between 40 and 80 years, TSH was lower amongst headache sufferers, especially migraineurs, than in those without headache complaints.
The diagnostic evaluation of patients with possible idiopathic normal-pressure hydrocephalus (INPH) is traditionally performed in the settings of either neurological, neurosurgical or psychiatric departments. The diagnostic procedure and findings in 71 consecutive patients referred with a clinical and radiological suspicion of INPH to our out-patient multidisciplinary memory clinic are evaluated. Primary diagnoses and potential concomitant disorders considered of secondary importance for the symptomatologies were established. Abnormal hydrodynamics, demonstrated by intraventricular pressure monitoring and infusion test were mandatory for the diagnosis of INPH. Mean age was 68 years and mean Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) score was 22. DSM IV criteria of dementia were fulfilled in 42%. In half of the referred patients (n=36), the suspicion of INPH was already disproved subsequently to the evaluation programme performed in the outpatient clinic. The main primary diagnosis was cerebrovascular disease (CVD) comprising 27% (n=19) of the referrals, whereas INPH was diagnosed in only 20% (n=14). Shunt improvement rate was 72%. The remaining patients were diagnosed as having one of 26 different conditions. A multiplicity of disorders mimics the INPH syndrome, with CVD being the primary differential diagnosis. Evaluating patients with possible INPH in an outpatient multidisciplinary memory clinic is an effective and rational diagnostic approach.
The cingulate motor areas reside within regions lining the cingulate sulcus and are divided into rostral and caudal parts. Recent studies suggest that the rostral and caudal cingulate motor areas participate in distinct aspects of motor function: the former plays a role in higher-order cognitive control of movements, whereas the latter is more directly involved in their execution. Here, we investigated the organization of cingulate motor areas inputs to the basal ganglia in the macaque monkey. Identified forelimb representations of the rostral and caudal cingulate motor areas were injected with different anterograde tracers and the distribution patterns of labelled terminals were analysed in the striatum and the subthalamic nucleus. Corticostriatal inputs from the rostral and caudal cingulate motor areas were located within the rostral striatum, with the highest density in the striatal cell bridges and the ventrolateral portions of the putamen, respectively. There was no substantial overlap between these input zones. Similarly, a certain segregation of input zones from the rostral and caudal cingulate motor areas occurred along the mediolateral axis of the subthalamic nucleus. It has also been revealed that corticostriatal and corticosubthalamic input zones from the rostral cingulate motor area considerably overlapped those from the presupplementary motor area, while the input zones from the caudal cingulate motor area displayed a large overlap with those from the primary motor cortex. The present results indicate that a parallel design underlies motor information processing in the cortico-basal ganglia loop derived from the rostral and caudal cingulate motor areas.
Repeated exposure to drugs of abuse causes persistent behavioural sensitization and associated adaptations in striatal neurotransmission, which is thought to play an important role in certain aspects of drug addiction. Remarkably, even a single exposure to psychostimulant drugs such as amphetamine or cocaine can be sufficient to elicit long-lasting sensitization. The present study was designed to evaluate whether long-lasting behavioural and neurochemical sensitization can also be evoked by a single exposure to morphine, an opiate drug of abuse. Rats were pretreated once with morphine (2, 10 or 30 mg/kg). Three weeks later, the locomotor effects of morphine and amphetamine, as well as the electrically evoked release of [3H]dopamine and [14C]acetylcholine from slices of nucleus accumbens and caudate-putamen, was assessed. In morphine-pretreated rats, the psychomotor effects of morphine and amphetamine were sensitized. In addition, the electrically evoked release of [3H]dopamine and [14C]acetylcholine was augmented in slices of nucleus accumbens and caudate-putamen from morphine-pretreated animals. Although the sensitization of the locomotor effect of morphine was less profound than previously observed after repeated intermittent morphine treatment, the enduring behavioural and neurochemical consequences of a single and repeated intermittent morphine treatment appear to be highly comparable. We therefore conclude that a single exposure to morphine induces long-lasting behavioural sensitization and associated neuroadaptations.
Transgenic Huntington's disease (HD) mice, expressing exon 1 of the human HD gene (lines R6/1 and R6/2), are totally resistant to striatal lesions caused by the NMDA receptor agonist quinolinic acid (QA). Here we show that this resistance develops gradually over time in both R6/1 and R6/2 mice, and that it occurred earlier in R6/2 (CAG-155) than in R6/1 (CAG-115) mice. The development of the resistance coincided with the appearance of nuclear inclusions and with the onset of motor deficits. In the HD mice, hippocampal neurons were also resistant to QA, especially in the CA1 region. Importantly, there was no change in susceptibility to QA in transgenic mice with a normal CAG repeat (CAG-18). R6/1 mice were also resistant to NMDA-, but not to AMPA-induced striatal damage. Interestingly, QA-induced current and calcium influx in striatal R6/2 neurons were not decreased. However, R6/2 neurons had a better capacity to handle cytoplasmic calcium ([Ca2+]c) overload following QA and could avoid [Ca2+]c deregulation and cell lysis. In addition, basal [Ca2+]c levels were increased five-fold in striatal R6/2 neurons. This might cause an adaptation of R6 neurons to excitotoxic stress resulting in an up-regulation of defense mechanisms, including an increased capacity to handle [Ca2+]c overload. However, the increased level of basal [Ca2+]c in the HD mice might also disturb intracellular signalling in striatal neurons and thereby cause neuronal dysfunction and behavioural deficits.
Huntington's disease is an autosomal dominant hereditary neurodegenerative disorder characterized by severe striatal cell loss. Dopamine (DA) has been suggested to play a role in the pathogenesis of the disease. We have previously reported that transgenic mice expressing exon 1 of the human Huntington gene (R6 lines) are resistant to quinolinic acid-induced striatal toxicity. In this study we show that with increasing age, R6/1 and R6/2 mice develop partial resistance to DA- and 6-hydroxydopamine-mediated toxicity in the striatum. Using electron microscopy, we found that the resistance is localized to the cell bodies and not to the neuropil. The reduction of dopamine and cAMP regulated phosphoprotein of a molecular weight of 32 kDa (DARPP-32) in R6/2 mice does not provide the resistance, as DA-induced striatal lesions are not reduced in size in DARPP-32 knockout mice. Neither DA receptor antagonists nor a N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor blocker reduce the size of DA-induced striatal lesions, suggesting that DA toxicity is not dependent upon DA- or NMDA receptor-mediated pathways. Moreover, superoxide dismutase-1 overexpression, monoamine oxidase inhibition and the treatment with the free radical scavenging spin-trap agent phenyl-butyl-tert-nitrone (PBN) also did not block DA toxicity. Levels of the antioxidant molecules, glutathione and ascorbate were not increased in R6/1 mice. Because damage to striatal neurons following intrastriatal injection of 6-hydroxydopamine was also reduced in R6 mice, a yet-to-be identified antioxidant mechanism may provide neuroprotection in these animals. We conclude that striatal neurons of R6 mice develop resistance to DA-induced toxicity with age.
The relationship between suicide attempts and different vulnerability factors was investigated in 61 male subjects during forensic psychiatric examination. Personality traits and psychopathy were determined by means of the Karolinska Scales of Personality (KSP) and the Psychopathy Checklist-Revised (PCL-R). Clinical diagnoses were determined by the use of Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-III-R (SCID). Platelet monoamine oxidase (MAO) activity was investigated in 58 subjects. Suicide attempters had extremely low socialization and high impulsive aggression. This was independent of a history of repeatedly criminal violence or not. They had higher PCL-R scores and lower levels of platelet MAO activity than non-attempters. No relationship was found between suicide attempts and repeated violent criminality. However, among the subjects with repeated criminal violence there was a highly significant difference between suicide attempters and non-attempters, indicating different personality profiles in violent offenders with and without suicidal behavior. Suicidal behavior was significantly associated with borderline personality disorder, but not with any other single DSM-III-R disorder. The results show a far more severe personality disturbance in suicide attempters than in other violent patients in this type of population. Suicidal behavior should therefore be evaluated and treated per se.
The errors in target-reaching that are produced by laterally displacing vision with wedge prisms decrease with trials (prism adaptation). When the prisms are removed, errors in the opposite direction are observed (aftereffect). We investigated the size of the aftereffect 24 h and 72 h after a monkey had adapted to a visual displacement (30 mm), with rapid reaching movements. The aftereffect more than half of the size of the displacement was observed when the effect was tested immediately after the monkey had been exposed to the displacement for 50 trials. In contrast, the aftereffect was not observed at 24 h even when the monkey had been exposed to the displacement for 250 trials. However, when the monkey had been exposed for 500 trials, significant aftereffects more than half of the size of the displacement were observed at 24 h and 72 h. When both arms were adapted to opposite prism displacements, the long-lasting aftereffect was further shown to be specific for the arm used during the exposure. The results indicate that the aftereffects of prism adaptation last for at least 3 days, though more than 200 trials of additional repetition are required to consolidate the short-term effects into long-lasting ones.
Extracellularly recorded field potentials, evoked by stimulation of cortico-nucleus accumbens border, were recorded in the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) in horizontal slices of rat ventral forebrain. The field excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) event (N2) was calcium dependent, blocked by tetrodotoxin (1 microM), and reduced by over 70% by 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX) (10 microM), the antagonist of AMPA-type glutamate receptors. The EPSP amplitude was enhanced by either of the GABA(A) receptor antagonists, picrotoxin (10 microM; by 252+/-33%, n=18) and bicuculline methiodide (20 microM; by 216+/-34%, n=4). Additionally, picrotoxin (3-50 microM) and bicuculline methiodide (20 microM) promoted epileptiform activity within the NAcc, manifest as the emergence of additional late components, N3, N4 and N5, in the evoked synaptic waveform. In slices with the frontal cortex removed, picrotoxin (10-50 microM) and bicuculline methiodide (20 microM) were unable to promote epileptiform activity within the NAcc, although a smaller increase in the peak amplitude of the field EPSP (163+/-18%, n=6) was observed at the highest concentrations of picrotoxin (50 microM). Histological examination of the slice demonstrated that in such decorticated slices, the piriform cortex (PC) had been removed. We propose that stimulation of the cortico-NAcc border not only evokes an orthodromic EPSP in the NAcc, but also causes antidromic activation of cortical tissue. Disinhibition by GABA(A) antagonists of circuits intrinsic to the cortex, possibly the piriform cortex, is the principal cause of the facilitation of the EPSP and of regenerative epileptiform activity in NAcc evoked by stimulation of cortical input.
This review presents an analysis of the current state of gerontological and geriatric research in Portugal, and highlights the need for a national consensus and funding for age-related research projects. Such efforts must be multidisciplinary, since the process of aging encompasses biological, psychological, social, economic and cultural aspects. Demographic studies reveal a growing population of elderly in Portugal as a result of a healthier population in general. This increased life expectancy, however, is accompanied by a parallel increase in degenerative pathologies and care costs among the elderly. Preventive medicine is an important tool to reduce health care costs and avoid or abbreviate suffering from age-related syndromes, but such projects on a national basis neither exists, nor does gerontology or geriatrics receive funding to perform needed research. Consequently, research on aging depends on the initiative of individual investigators who, without funding or cohesive programs, can do little to improve the low scientific output in this area. The implementation of a national program, that can establish health care policy and priorities as well as fund the necessary research, will permit organized cooperation among the different scientific disciplines related to aging. This is a crucial step toward improving present knowledge, ensuring application of experimental and statistical results to the clinical care of the aging population, and attract young investigators to this field.
Embryonic ventral mesencephalic tissue from the pig is a potential alternative donor tissue for neural transplantation to Parkinson's disease patients. For stable graft survival, the host immune response has to be prevented. This study was performed in order to analyze the mechanisms and dynamics of neural xenograft rejection, as well as neurobiological properties of the donor tissue. Adult normal mice and rats, and cyclosporin A-treated rats, received intrastriatal transplants of dissociated embryonic ventral mesencephalic pig tissue that was 27 or 29 embryonic days of age (E27 and E29). The animals were perfused at 2, 4, 6, and 12 weeks after grafting and the brains were processed for immunohistochemistry of dopaminergic (tyrosine hydroxylase positive) neurons, CD4(+) and CD8(+) lymphocytes, natural killer cells, macrophages, microglia, and astrocytes. Thirty-five rats received daily injections of BrdU for 5 consecutive days at different time points after transplantation and were perfused at 6 weeks. These animals were analyzed for proliferation of cells in the donor tissue, both in healthy and in rejecting grafts. No tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cells proliferated after grafting. Our results demonstrated that E27 was superior to E29 donor tissue for neurobiological reasons. Cyclosporin A immunosuppression was protective only during the first weeks and failed to protect the grafts in a long-term perspective. Grafts in mice were invariably rejected between 2 and 4 weeks after transplantation, while occasional grafts in untreated rats survived up to 12 weeks without signs of an ongoing rejection process. CD8(+) lymphocytes and microglia cells are most likely important effector cells in the late, cyclosporin A-resistant rejection process.
Aging is associated with a progressive increase in the risk of several prominent neurodegenerative disorders, including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, stroke and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. In each of these disorders specific populations of neurons become dysfunctional, then die and are not replaced. The adult brain and spinal cord contain populations of so-called neural stem cells (self-renewing and multipotent) and neural precursor cells (specified to a certain fate, but still mitotic) that may provide a continuing source of new neurons and glial cells during successful aging and after injury to the nervous system. Recent studies have shown that stem cells from embryos and adults can be transplanted into the nervous system, differentiate into neurons and glia and restore lost function in experimental models of neurodegenerative diseases. Embryonic stem cells may be a particularly effective donor cell type for transplantation-based therapies. Efficacy of stem cell therapies remains to be established in clinical trials in humans. Another approach is to mobilize endogenous neural stem cells. Animals studies have shown that dietary and behavioral modifications can indeed stimulate neurogenesis. Molecular and cellular mechanisms that regulate the proliferation, differentiation and survival of neural stem cells and neural precursor cells are being elucidated and are revealing novel targets for the development of pharmaceuticals that promote neurogenesis.
Metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) are a relatively new family of G-protein coupled receptors that can be activated by the major excitatory neurotransmitter, L-glutamate. The eight known mGluR subtypes are classified into three groups based on their sequence homology, signal transduction mechanisms and receptor pharmacology. Extensive research has implicated mGluRs in neuroplasticity associated with normal brain functions, but also in various neurological and psychiatric disorders. Evidence is accumulating to suggest an important role of mGluRs in nociception and pain. With the availability in recent years of selective pharmacological tools, behavioral and electrophysiological studies have shown that mGluR subgroups and subtypes mediate and modulate nociceptive processing at different levels of the nervous system: periphery, spinal cord and brain. Thus, mGluRs may provide important novel therapeutic targets for the relief of pain associated with altered neurotransmission and neuronal excitability.
Children born to mothers who take antiepileptic drugs during pregnancy have a 2-4 fold increased risk for birth defects and also a risk of growth retardation and possibly impaired psychomotor development. Despite their teratogenic effects, antiepileptic drugs are used during pregnancy because uncontrolled epileptic seizures are considered more hazardous to the fetus than the drug therapy. The aim is to maintain seizure control with the appropriate drug given in monotherapy at the lowest effective dosage. These issues have implications for the management of young women with epilepsy in general, since major changes in drug therapy and other attempts to reduce the teratogenic risks should be accomplished before conception in order to be effective and safe.
The onset of diabetic neuropathy, a complication of diabetes mellitus, has been linked to poor glycemic control. We tested the hypothesis that the mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK) form transducers for the damaging effects of high glucose. In cultures of adult rat sensory neurons, high glucose activated JNK and p38 MAPK but did not result in cell damage. However, oxidative stress activated ERK and p38 MAPKs and resulted in cellular damage. In the dorsal root ganglia of streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats (a model of type I diabetes), ERK and p38 were activated at 8 wk duration, followed by activation of JNK at 12 wk duration. We report activation of JNK and increases in total levels of p38 and JNK in sural nerve of type I and II diabetic patients. These data implicate MAPKs in the etiology of diabetic neuropathy both via direct effects of glucose and via glucose-induced oxidative stress.
Amyloid beta protein (AbetaP) is the major constituent of senile plaques associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, its mechanistic role in AD pathogenesis is poorly understood. Globular and nonfibrillar AbetaPs are continuously released during normal metabolism. Using techniques of atomic force microscopy, laser confocal microscopy, electrical recording, and biochemical assays, we have examined the molecular conformations of reconstituted globular AbetaPs as well as their real-time and acute effects on neuritic degeneration. Atomic force microscopy (AFM) of AbetaP1-42 shows globular structures that do not form fibers in physiological-buffered solution for up to 8 h of continuous imaging. AFM of AbetaP1-42 reconstituted in a planar lipid bilayer reveals multimeric channel-like structures. Consistent with these AFM resolved channel-like structures, biochemical analysis demonstrates that predominantly monomeric AbetaPs in solution form stable tetramers and hexamers after incorporation into lipid membranes. Electrophysiological recordings demonstrate the presence of multiple single channel currents of different sizes. At the cellular level, AbetaP1-42 allows calcium uptake and induces neuritic abnormality in a dose- and time-dependent fashion. At physiological nanomolar concentrations, rapid neuritic degeneration was observed within minutes; at micromolar concentrations, neuronal death was observed within 3-4 h. These effects are prevented by zinc (an AbetaP channel blocker) and by the removal of extracellular calcium, but are not prevented by antagonists of putative AbetaP cell surface receptors. Thus, AbetaP channels may provide a direct pathway for calcium-dependent AbetaP toxicity in AD.
The effectiveness of catalytic RNAs (ribozymes) should be increased when they are colocalized to the same intracellular compartment as their RNA targets. We colocalized ribozymes with their mRNA targets in an animal model by using the discrete RNA localization signals present in the 3' untranslated regions (UTRs) of Drosophila bicoid and oskar mRNAs. These signals have been fused to a lacZ mRNA target and hammerhead ribozymes targeted against lacZ. Ribozyme efficacy was first assessed by an oligodeoxyribonucleotide-based assay to identify the most accessible sites for ribozyme interaction on native lacZ transcripts in ovary extracts. The most accessible sequence was used for the design and in vivo testing of a hammerhead ribozyme. When the ribozyme and target with synonymous 3' UTRs were expressed in the same ovaries, colocalization could be indirectly demonstrated by in situ hybridization. Colocalized ribozyme and target mRNAs resulted in a two- to threefold enhancement of ribozyme function compared with noncolocalized transcripts. This study provides the first demonstration of functional ribozyme target colocalization in an animal model.
This review is about synaesthesia, a well known but still poorly investigated phenomenon. The most common form of synaesthesia is coloured hearing. Epidemiological and genetical studies show that synaesthesia has a higher prevalence in the normal population than previously stated. Most subjects are female and there is a clear heritability. Psychophysical investigations of synaesthetic mechanisms in normal subjects show reliable colour-tone-attributions. Single case studies with paradigms from experimental psychology found a high consistency of synaesthetic associations and observed behaviourally relevant interferences between primary perception and secondary synaesthetic sensations. The first studies using functional neuroimaging methods found specific neuronal correlates of synaesthesia. Neuropsychiatric studies analyze synaesthesia-like phenomena in patients with optical nerve lesions, upper limb amputation or severe depression and as induced by hallucinogenic drugs. Data-based and more speculative theories and models of synaesthesia are presented and critically discussed.
We identified a large family of putative odorant-binding protein (OBP) genes in the genome of Drosophila melanogaster. Some of these genes are present in large clusters in the genome. Most members are expressed in various taste organs, including gustatory sensilla in the labellum, the pharyngeal labral sense organ, dorsal and ventral cibarial organs, as well as taste bristles located on the wings and tarsi. Some of the gustatory OBPs are expressed exclusively in taste organs, but most are expressed in both olfactory and gustatory sensilla. Multiple binding proteins can be coexpressed in the same gustatory sensillum. Cells in the tarsi that express OBPs are required for normal chemosensation mediated through the leg, as ablation of these cells dramatically reduces the sensitivity of the proboscis extension reflex to sucrose. Finally, we show that OBP genes expressed in the pharyngeal taste sensilla are still expressed in the poxneuro genetic background while OBPs expressed in the labellum are not. These findings support a broad role for members of the OBP family in gustation and olfaction and suggest that poxneuro is required for cell fate determination of labellar but not pharyngeal taste organs.
Over the past decade, viral vectors have slowly gained mainstream acceptance in the neuroscience and genetics communities for the in vivo study of gene function [1]. Using stereotactic techniques, it is possible to characterize neuroanatomical relationships through the delivery of neurotropic viral vectors to specific brain regions. More sophisticated studies combine viral vectors with other methods of genetic manipulation such as germline transgenic mice. As more is learned about the properties of different viral vectors, it has become possible to use viral vectors to test hypotheses about the function of genes, through targeted in vivo delivery to the central nervous system (CNS). The effects of gene expression in the brain can be measured on the molecular, biochemical, electrophysiological, morphological, and behavioral levels. We propose that viral vectors should be considered as part of an integrated functional genomics platform in the CNS.
Oligodendrocytes and Schwann cells are the glia principally responsible for the synthesis and maintenance of myelin. Damage may occur to these cells in a number of conditions, but perhaps the most studied are the idiopathic inflammatory demyelinating diseases, multiple sclerosis in the CNS, and Guillain-Barr syndrome and its variants in the peripheral nervous system (PNS). This article explores the effects on these cells of cytotoxic immunological and inflammatory mediators: similarities are revealed, of which perhaps the most important is the sensitivity of both Schwann cells and oligodendrocytes to many such agents. This area of research is, however, characterised and complicated by numerous and often very substantial inter-observer discrepancies. Marked variability in cell culture techniques, and in assays of cell damage and death, provide artifactual explanations for some of this variability; true inter-species differences also contribute. Not the least important conclusion centres on the limited capacity of in vitro studies to reveal disease mechanisms: cell culture findings merely illustrate possibilities which must then be tested ex vivo using human tissue samples affected by the relevant disease.

Researchers have wrought many new treatments for two growing fields of medicine: cardiovascular services and neurosciences.
The number, size and distribution of myelinated nerve fibers were analyzed in the osseous spiral lamina (OSL) of young and old gerbils raised in a quiet environment. Because decreased endocochlear potentials (EPs) play a significant role in age-related hearing loss in the gerbil, we correlated morphometric and topographical data for nerve fibers with EP measurements in the same ear. Fibers were analyzed at the 2 and 10 kHz locations. The number of fibers at the 2 kHz location ranged from 12 to 47% greater than at the 10 kHz place in both young and aged specimens. No significant correlation was found between the number of fibers and the EP. Nerve fibers in gerbil tend to be distributed vertically by size within the OSL [Slepecky et al. (2000) Hear. Res. 144, 124-134], a result also found in cats and guinea pigs. Smaller fibers are more often found towards the scala vestibuli side of the OSL, whereas larger fibers are concentrated towards the scala tympani. The present data confirmed this distribution in young gerbils; however, in aged ears the distribution often became more uniform. Moreover, fiber distribution and ganglion cell size were highly correlated with EP. As EP declined, the fiber size distribution in the OSL became more uniform and the mean cross-sectional area of spiral ganglion cells and fiber diameter decreased. Thus, for whatever reason, certain indices of auditory nerve fiber morphometrics appear to be associated with the EP.
Globoid cell leukodystrophy is one of the classical genetic leukodystrophies in humans. The typical infantile disease in man (Krabbe disease) is caused by deficiency of lysosomal galactosylceramidase. We recently generated a new mouse model of a late-onset, chronic form of the disease by inactivating saposin A, the essential activator of galactosylceramidase. The phenotypic features of saposin A(-/-) mice are qualitatively identical but milder than those of twitcher mice, which is caused by genetic galactosylceramidase deficiency. During intercrossing of saposin A(-/-) mice, we observed that affected females that are continually pregnant showed greatly improved neurological symptoms compared to affected females that do not experience pregnancy, or affected males. The pathological hallmark of globoid cell leukodystrophy, demyelination with infiltration of globoid cells, largely disappeared. The immune-related gene expression (MCP-1, TNF-alpha) was significantly down-regulated in the brain of pregnant saposin A(-/-) mice. In addition, we found intense expression of the estrogen receptors (ER alpha and ER beta) on the globoid cells, activated astrocytes and microglia in the demyelinating area of saposin A(-/-) mice. When saposin A(-/-) mice were subcutaneously implanted with time-release 17 beta-estradiol (E2) pellets from 30 to 90 days, the pathology was vastly improved. These findings suggest that a higher level of estrogen during pregnancy is one of the important factors in the protective effect of pregnancy. While we should be cautious in extrapolating these observations in the mouse to human disease, the phenomenon is spectacularly dramatic and estrogen administration might be worth a consideration as a supplementary treatment for some chronic genetic leukodystrophies.
Del22q11 syndrome is caused by heterozygous deletion of an approximately 3 Mb segment of chromosome 22q11.2. Children diagnosed with del22q11 syndrome commonly have learning difficulties, deficits of motor development, cognitive defects and attention deficit disorder. They also have a higher than normal risk for developing psychiatric disorders, mainly schizophrenia, schizoaffective disorder and bipolar disorder. Here, we show that mice that are heterozygously deleted for a subset of the genes that are deleted in patients have deficits in sensorimotor gating and learning and memory. The finding of sensorimotor gating deficits is particularly significant because patients with schizophrenia and schizotypal personality disorder show similar deficits. Thus, our deletion mouse models at least two major features of the del22q11-associated behavioral phenotype, and as such, represents an animal model of this complex behavioral phenotype. These findings not only open the way to pharmacological analyses that may lead to improved treatments, but also to the identification of gene/s that modulate these specific behaviors in humans.
Myelitis and Guillain-Barr syndrome occurring concurrently after varicella infection is very rare. A 34-year-old man presented with progressive flaccid tetraparesis, facial palsy, respiratory failure, sensory loss and urinary incontinence one week after varicella infection. Clinical, imaging and electrodiagnostic studies supported the diagnosis of myelitis and Guillain-Barr syndrome. He improved with intravenous acyclovir and gammaglobulin.
Camptodactyly is a non-neurogenic flexion deformity of the proximal interphalangeal joint, most commonly affecting the little finger. The frequency of camptodactyly in patients referred to three general neurology outpatient clinics, two in district general hospitals and one in a regional neuroscience centre, over the course of one year (2000) was measured. Five out of 978 consecutive new outpatients (0.5%) had camptodactyly (2 M, 3 F); four had bilateral deformity. In only one was camptodactyly the reason for referral. In two cases, camptodactyly was entirely incidental to the neurological symptoms; in two others it was incidental but might have been confused with the neurological features. In three cases other family members were affected, in a manner consistent with autosomal dominant inheritance with variable penetrance. Camptodactyly is not infrequently observed in the general neurology outpatient clinic. It merits attention in order to avoid confusion with other, neurogenic, causes of clawing, and so avoid unnecessary investigation.
The zebrafish has become an important vertebrate model in developmental neuroscience because it is a useful model for embryology, developmental biology, and genetic analysis. The similarities of its visual system to that of other vertebrates also make this animal a valuable model in vision science. The anatomical, physiological, and behavioral components of zebrafish visual processing have been studied in adult and in developing zebrafish. Its retinal anatomy continues to develop following hatching, providing an opportunity to correlate the development of retinal structure with visual physiology and behavior. In addition, a number of genetic mutations have been developed which are used to examine the contributions of genetics to visual development and function. This article will provide an overview of studies of zebrafish anatomical, physiological and behavioral processing, and the effects if genetic and environmental manipulations on visual development.
Depression is very common in patients with dementia but the relationship is very complex. Depression is regarded as a cause of excess disability in persons with dementia and contributes to their functional decline. The assessment of depression in dementia patients, however, has been difficult in that the validity of self-reported depression in patients with dementia has been questioned. This study was done to investigate whether self-reported depression by persons with dementia (using the GDS) is related to their functional abilities as rated by a family caregiver (using the IADL scale) above and beyond demographic variables. This study was conducted at the Detroit Satellite of the Michigan Alzheimer's Disease Research Center. There were 141 participants, 67% were African American and 33% were European American. Statistical analyses included a correlational and multiple regression approach to determine the predictive relationships of cognitive and depressive symptoms above and beyond the influence of demographic variables and cognition. The results of the study further support the notion that depression in dementia is significantly related to functional decline but, more importantly, that self-reported depression in patients with dementia can be valuable information in understanding patients' functioning.

Zurek (1980) measured listeners' sensitivities to interaural disparities conveyed by a 5-ms &quot;probe&quot; segment embedded within a 50-ms burst of otherwise diotic broadband noise [P. M. Zurek, J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 67, 952-964 (1980)]. He found that thresholds for interaural time delay (ITD) and interaural intensitive difference (IID) were markedly elevated when the onset of the probe segment occurred between 1 and 5 ms after the onset of the burst. Zurek postulated that this occurred because the leading portion of the noise briefly inhibited sensitivity to subsequent binaural information. If such inhibition were the primary factor responsible for the elevation in thresholds, then the omission of the portion of the noise trailing the probe segment would be expected to have little, if any, influence on performance. In order to test this hypothesis, listeners' sensitivities to ITD and IID were measured using a paradigm similar to that employed by Zurek. The results revealed that the omission of either the leading or the trailing portions of the diotic noise led to substantial reductions in threshold ITDs and IIDs. The data were successfully accounted for by a model based upon a combination of a temporal window with an equivalent rectangular duration of approximately 10 ms and a weighting function representing a brief loss of binaural sensitivity just after the onset of a sound.
The use of orthogonal acceleration quadrupole time-of-flight (Q-TOF) mass spectrometry to determine the collisionally activated dissociation (CAD) of a test compound 1-(3-[5-[1,2,4-triazol-4-yl]-1H-indol-3-yl]propyl)-4-(2-[3-fluorophenyl]ethyl)piperazine is described. At unit-mass resolution the identity of many ions is ambiguous because of the complexity of the resulting product ion spectrum. Using the high resolution capabilities of the Q-TOF instrument, exact masses for each fragment were determined. These data were used to infer molecular formulas for each fragment through software interpretation and, by further applying chemical intuition, the majority of ions were fully assigned. Additionally, by utilizing in-source fragmentation at high cone voltage, analyses of second-generation products allowed derivation of a consistent sequential fragmentation pathway. This study clearly demonstrates the power of Q-TOF mass spectrometry to elucidate complex product ion spectra.
We examined the effects of 30 min of exposure to either +3GX (front-to-back) or +GZ (head-to-foot) centrifugation on cerebrovascular responses to 80 degrees head-up tilt (HUT) in 14 healthy individuals. Both before and after +3 GX or +3 GZ centrifugation, eye-level blood pressure (BP(eye)), end tidal PCO2 (PET(CO2)), mean cerebral flow velocity (CFV) in the middle cerebral artery (transcranial Doppler ultrasound), cerebral vascular resistance (CVR), and dynamic cerebral autoregulatory gain (GAIN) were measured with subjects in the supine position and during subsequent 80 degrees HUT for 30 min. Mean BP(eye) decreased with HUT in both the GX (n = 7) and GZ (n = 7) groups (P &lt; 0.001), with the decrease being greater after centrifugation only in the GZ group (P &lt; 0.05). PET(CO2) also decreased with HUT in both groups (P &lt; 0.01), but the absolute level of decrease was unaffected by centrifugation. CFV decreased during HUT more significantly after centrifugation than before centrifugation in both groups (P &lt; 0.02). However, these greater decreases were not associated with greater increases in CVR. In the supine position after centrifugation compared with before centrifugation, GAIN increased in both groups (P &lt; 0.05, suggesting an autoregulatory deficit), with the change being correlated to a measure of otolith function (the linear vestibulo-ocular reflex) in the GX group (r = 0.76, P &lt; 0.05) but not in the GZ group (r = 0.24, P = 0.60). However, GAIN was subsequently restored to precentrifugation levels during postcentrifugation HUT (i.e., as BP(eye) decreased), suggesting that both types of centrifugation resulted in a leftward shift of the cerebral autoregulation curve. We speculate that this leftward shift may have been due to vestibular activation (especially during +GX) or potentially to an adaptation to reduced cerebral perfusion pressure during +GZ.
We evaluated the relationship between the toxicity induced by the organophosphate mevinphos (Mev) and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) in the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM), the medullary origin of sympathetic neurogenic vasomotor tone. Adult Sprague-Dawley rats that were anesthetized and maintained with propofol were used. Laser scanning confocal microscopic analysis revealed colocalization of the M2 subtype of muscarinic receptors (M(2)R) and iNOS immunoreactivity in RVLM neurons. Comicroinjection bilaterally of Mev (10 nmol) and artificial cerebrospinal fluid (aCSF) into the RVLM elicited a progressive decline in systemic arterial pressure (SAP) and heart rate. This was accompanied during phase 1 Mev intoxication by an increase in the power density of the very high-frequency (VHF; 5-9 Hz), high-frequency (HF; 0.8-2.4 Hz), low-frequency (LF; 0.25- 0.8 Hz) and very low-frequency (VLF; 0-0.25 Hz) components of SAP signals. Phase 2 exhibited a reversal of the VHF and VLF power to control levels and a further reduction in the power density of both HF and LF components to below baseline. Hypotension and bradycardia promoted by Mev were significantly blunted on coadministration into the RVLM of the selective iNOS inhibitors S-methylisothiourea (250 pmol) or aminoguanidine (250 pmol). Not only was the augmented power density of HF and LF components during phase 1 Mev intoxication further enhanced, the reduced power of these two spectral components during phase 2 was appreciably antagonized. On the other hand, the temporal changes in VHF and VLF power were essentially the same as with coadministration of Mev and aCSF. We conclude that, as a cholinesterase inhibitor, Mev may induce toxicity via nitric oxide produced by iNOS on activation of the M(2)R by the accumulated acetylcholine in the RVLM.
In previous studies, the authors showed that the nitrone radical scavenger alpha-phenyl-N- tert -butyl nitrone (PBN) and its sulfo-derivative, 2-sulfo-phenyl-N- tert -butyl nitrone (S-PBN), attenuated cognitive disturbance and reduced tissue damage after traumatic brain injury (TBI) in rats. In the current study, the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) after TBI was monitored with microdialysis and the 4-hydroxybenzoic acid (4-HBA) trapping method. A single dose of PBN (30 mg/kg) or an equimolar dose of S-PBN (47 mg/kg) was administered intravenously 30 minutes before a controlled cortical contusion injury in rats. Plasma and brain tissue drug concentrations were analyzed at the end of the microdialysis experiment (3 hours after injury) and, in a separate experiment with S-PBN, at 30 and 60 minutes after injury. Traumatic brain injury caused a significant increase in ROS formation that lasted for 60 minutes after the injury as evidenced by increased 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA) concentrations in the dialysate. PBN and S-PBN equally and significantly attenuated the posttraumatic increase in 3,4-DHBA formation. High PBN concentrations were found bilaterally in brain tissue up to 3 hours after injury. In contrast, S-PBN was rapidly cleared from the circulation and was not detectable in brain at 30 minutes after injury or at any later time point. The results suggest that scavenging of ROS after TBI may contribute to the neuroprotective properties observed with nitrone spin-trapping agents. S-PBN, which remained undetectable even in traumatized brain tissue, reduced ROS production to the same extent as PBN that readily crossed the blood-brain barrier. This finding supports an important role for ROS production at the blood-endothelial interface in TBI.
The spatiotemporal information in chemical signals provides critical information for organisms during chemical orientation. Information in chemical signals is influenced by the hydrodynamic conditions of the environment. Hydrodynamically distinct environments will contain different types of information, which will influence how organisms orient. This study was designed to examine how the orientation behavior of the brown bullhead (Ameiurus nebulosus) is influenced by flow regime. The experiment was conducted in a flume under two different flow conditions. Treatments consisted of control (no odor) and plain gelatin (odor). Percent success, swimming speed, turning angle, heading angle, heading angle upstream, and net-to-gross ratio were analyzed. Brown bullheads were 100% successful in finding the odor source under no flow and 57% successful in flow. Bullheads swam differently in the no-flow condition when compared to the flow condition. Since, these fish did not orient the same under different flow conditions, it appears that hydrodynamics plays a role in shaping their behavior.
It is well known that maternal smoking during pregnancy can lead to low birth weight and low body fat in human newborns. The purpose of this study was to determine whether chronic maternal nicotine treatment alters levels of known regulators of energy balance in the newborn offspring. Pregnant rhesus monkeys were treated with nicotine tartrate (1.5 mg/kg x d) starting on d 26 of pregnancy and maintained through d 160 of gestation. Nicotine exposure had no significant effect on absolute birth weights of the neonatal monkeys, although there was a 10% reduction in birth weights with nicotine exposure when they were normalized to maternal weight. Postnatal d 1 plasma leptin levels were significantly reduced by about 50% in the nicotine treatment group compared with saline controls, suggesting that the infant monkeys exposed to nicotine may also have lower body fat levels. In situ hybridization studies demonstrated that chronic nicotine exposure resulted in a significant decrease in arcuate NPY mRNA expression in the neonatal monkeys. In addition, there was a 2-fold increase in POMC mRNA in the arcuate nucleus in the nicotine-exposed group. These data suggest that nicotine exposure during pregnancy may increase energy expenditure in the developing fetus through actions on hypothalamic systems, resulting in lower birth weights and body fat levels.
The primate visual system is composed by two color-opponent pathways--red-green (R-G) and blue-yellow (B-Y)--subserved by the so-called parvo- and koniocellular streams respectively. The authors' aim was to compare the relative involvement of chromatic visual subsystems in multiple sclerosis (MS). In 30 MS patients with different forms of MS they recorded visual evoked potentials (VEPs) to onset (300 msec) and offset (700 msec) of equiluminant R-G and B-Y sinusoidal gratings of different contrast (90% and 25%). Equiluminance was established psychophysically by establishing the R-G and the B-Y color ratio at which chromatic gratings alternating at 15 and 10 Hz respectively had minimum visibility. The negative wave at stimulus onset with a peak latency of 120 to 160 msec was evaluated. Ordinary VEPs to luminance (LUM) contrast (black-white reversing checkerboards of 15' check size and 50% contrast) were also recorded for comparison. Latencies of R-G VEPs were abnormal in 53.3% and 58.3% of patients at 90% and 25% contrast respectively, whereas abnormal B-Y VEPs were 56.6% and 48.3%. Latencies of LUM VEPs were abnormal in 45% of patients. Interocular latency asymmetries were abnormal in 59.2% and 33.3% of patients for R-G, and 51.8% and 62.9% for B-Y. Latency asymmetries for LUM VEP were abnormal in 46.4% of patients. The higher rate of VEP abnormalities found with equiluminant chromatic stimuli compared with achromatic stimuli confirms the general vulnerability of color-opponent visual pathways in MS, even if the number of patients with abnormal findings was not significantly different when both test conditions were compared. VEPs to R-G and B-Y equiluminant stimuli appear to be involved approximately to the same extent.
The Australian Alfred Walter Campbell (1868-1937) is remembered as one of the two chief pioneers of the study of the cytoarchitectonics of the primate cerebral cortex. He had worked in Britain carrying out neuroanatomical and neuropathological research for almost two decades before his famous monograph on Histological Studies on the Localisation of Cerebral Function appeared in 1905. In that year he returned to his native Australia and practiced for over 30 years in Sydney as a neurologist rather than a neuropathologist, publishing mainly clinical material though he was involved in the investigation of the epidemic of Australian X disease, a viral encephalitis. His abrupt change in both the nature and the location of his career at a time when he was well established in Britain appears to have been a consequence of his marriage and the need to provide for a family. His simultaneous apparent abandonment of research seems not to have really been the case. As judged from the contents of a paper presented to a local medical congress in Sydney in 1911, it appears that, in Australia, Campbell did carry out a major comparative anatomical and histological investigation of the possibility of localization of function in the cerebellar cortex. He never published this work in detail. His investigation let him to conclude that no such localization of function existed, a view contrary to the then topical interpretation of Bolk (1906), but one in accordance with Gordon Holmes' views a decade later. Campbell's circumstances in Sydney, his extremely reticent nature and the essentially negative outcome of his investigation probably explain his failure to make his study more widely known.

Stimulated recall interviews were used in connection with carers' video-recorded interactions with patients suffering from severe dementia before, during and after a 1-year intervention involving supervision for individualized nursing care. The aim was to illuminate carers' reflections on their everyday life with the patients, and to find out if any changes took place across the intervention. A phenomenological-hermeneutic approach was used in the analysis, which revealed that carers' reflections were focused on the carers themselves, on the patients, on context and on the work itself in the shared everyday life. After repeated stimulated recall interviews, together with supervision every month, an improvement in carers' ability to verbalize their reflections and an awareness and knowledge about their own influence on care quality were seen. The interdependence between carers and patients made it necessary for the carers to cope with many complicated here-and-now situations, and in their reflections the carers kept coming back to their efforts to maintain a sense of dignity for the patients as well as for themselves. Reflection through stimulated recall seems to be an important tool for carers in dementia care to facilitate understanding and to help them learn through lived experience, thus developing their skills in nursing care.
The purpose of this study was to illuminate how the integration of lucid individuals and agitated cognitively impaired individuals affects aspects of perceived quality of care. A questionnaire was mailed to hospital wards, nursing home wards and residential homes in Sweden. Nursing staff replied to the questionnaire on behalf of each care unit. Integration of cognitively impaired and lucid patients/residents was identified as a problem, regardless of whether the care unit was a hospital ward, nursing home or residential home. Agitated behaviours in people who were cognitively impaired could result in lucid residents becoming anxious, afraid and irritated. This in turn could lead to an exacerbation of behaviour in residents who were already agitated. Sometimes a lucid patient/resident was required to share a room with an agitated individual. There is a need for staff training specific to the needs of people with dementia. Findings suggest that there is a shortage of units designed specifically for the care of agitated cognitively impaired patients/residents. The findings of this study support the need for healthcare providers in long-term care settings to maintain the rights and well being of all patients/residents.
Dopamine system stabilizers are a potential new class of antipsychotic agents without motor side effects. All known effective antipsychotics act at D2 receptors. A novel concept for an antipsychotic without motor side effects is to stabilize these receptors rather than block them harshly.

We characterized the functional and molecular properties of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) expressed by IMR-32, a human neuroblastoma cell line, and compared them to human alpha3 AChRs expressed in stably transfected human embryonic kidney (HEK) cells. IMR-32 cells, like neurons of autonomic ganglia, have been shown to express alpha3, alpha5, alpha7, beta2, and beta4 AChR subunits. From these subunits, several types of alpha3 AChRs as well as homomeric alpha7 AChRs could be formed. However, as we show, the properties of functional AChRs in these cells overwhelmingly reflect alpha3beta4 AChRs. alpha7 AChR function was not detected, yet we estimate that there are 70% as many surface alpha7 AChRs in IMR-32 when compared with alpha3 AChRs. Agonist potencies (EC(50) values) followed the rank order of 1,1-dimethyl-4-phenylpiperazinium (DMPP; 16+/-1 microM) &gt; nicotine (Nic; 48 +/- 7 microM) &gt; or = cytisine (Cyt; 57 +/- 3 microM) = acetylcholine (ACh; 59 +/- 6 microM). All agonists exhibited efficacies of at least 80% relative to ACh. The currents showed strong inward rectification and desensitized at a rate of 3 s(-1) (300 microM ACh; -60 mV). Assays that used mAbs confirmed the predominance of alpha3- and beta4-containing AChRs in IMR-32 cells. Although 18% of total alpha3 AChRs contained beta2 subunits, no beta2 subunit was detected on the cell surface. Chronic Nic incubation increased the amount of total, but not surface alpha3beta2 AChRs in IMR-32 cells. Nic incubation and reduced culture temperature increased total and surface AChRs in alpha3beta2 transfected HEK cells. Characterization of various alpha3 AChRs expressed in HEK cell lines revealed that the functional properties of the alpha3beta4 cell line best matched those found for IMR-32 cells. The rank order of agonist potencies (EC(50) values) for this line was DMPP (14 +/- 1 microM) = Cyt (18 +/- 1 microM) &gt; Nic (56 +/- 15 microM &gt; ACh (79 +/- 8 microM). The efficacies of both Cyt and DMPP were approximately 80% when compared with ACh and the desensitization rate was 2 s(-1). These data show that even with the potential to express several human nicotinic AChR subtypes, the functional properties of AChRs expressed by IMR-32 are completely attributable to alpha3beta4 AChRs.
In the presence of a low pH environment, the channel-forming T domain of diphtheria toxin undergoes a conformational change that allows for both its own insertion into planar lipid bilayers and the translocation of the toxin's catalytic domain across them. Given that the T domain contributes only three transmembrane segments, and the channel is permeable to ions as large as glucosamine(+) and NAD(-), it would appear that the channel must be a multimer. Yet, there is substantial circumstantial evidence that the channel may be formed from a single subunit. To test the hypothesis that the channel formed by the T domain of diphtheria toxin is monomeric, we made mixtures of two T domain constructs whose voltage-gating characteristics differ, and then observed the gating behavior of the mixture's single channels in planar lipid bilayers. One of these constructs contained an NH(2)-terminal hexahistidine (H6) tag that blocks the channel at negative voltages; the other contained a COOH-terminal H6 tag that blocks the channel at positive voltages. If the channel is constructed from multiple T domain subunits, one expects to see a population of single channels from this mixture that are blocked at both positive and negative voltages. The observed single channels were blocked at either negative or positive voltages, but never both. Therefore, we conclude that the T domain channel is monomeric.
Two mannose 6-phosphate receptors, cation-dependent and -independent receptors (CDMPR and CIMPR), play an important role in the intracellular transport of lysosomal enzymes. To investigate functional differences between the two in vivo, their distribution was examined in the rat liver using immunohistochemical techniques. Positive signals corresponding to CIMPR were detected intensely in hepatocytes and weakly in sinusoidal Kupffer cells and interstitial cells in Glisson's capsule. In the liver acinus, hepatocytes in the perivenous region showed a more intense immunoreactivity than those in the periportal region. On the other hand, positive staining of CDMPR was detected at a high level in Kupffer cells, epithelial cells of interlobular bile ducts, and fibroblast-like cells, but the corresponding signal was rather weak in hepatocytes. In situ hybridization analysis also revealed a high level of expression of CIMPR mRNAs in hepatocytes and of CDMPR mRNA in Kupffer cells. By double immunostaining, OX6-positive antigen-presenting cells in Glisson's capsule were co-labeled with the CDMPR signal but were only faintly stained with anti-CIMPR. These different distribution patterns of the two MPRs suggest distinct functional properties of each receptor in liver tissue.
We describe a novel high-resolution method to detect F-actin at the light and electron microscopic levels through the use of the actin-binding protein phalloidin conjugated to the fluorophore eosin, followed by photo-oxidation of diaminobenzidine. This method possesses several key advantages over antibody-based labeling and structural methods. First, phalloidin binding to F-actin can tolerate relatively high concentrations of glutaraldehyde (up to 1%) in the primary fixative, resulting in good ultrastructural preservation. Second, because both eosin and phalloidin are relatively small molecules, considerable penetration of reagents into aldehyde-fixed tissue was obtained without any permeabilization steps, allowing 3D reconstructions at the electron microscopic level. By employing a secondary fixation with tannic acid combined with low pH osmication, conditions known to stabilize actin filaments during preparation for electron microscopy, we were able to visualize individual actin filaments in some structures. Finally, we show that fluorescent phalloidin can be directly injected into neurons to label actin-rich structures such as dendritic spines. These results suggest that the fluorescent phalloidin is an excellent tool for the study of actin networks at high resolution.
Endotoxin [lipopolysaccharide (LPS)] tolerance suppresses macrophage/monocyte proinflammatory-mediator production. This phenomenon also confers cross-tolerance to other stimuli including tumor necrosis factor (TNF) alpha and interleukin (IL)-1beta. Post-receptor convergence of signal transduction pathways might occur after LPS, IL-1beta, and TNF-alpha stimulation. Therefore, it was hypothesized that down-regulation of common signaling molecules induces cross-tolerance among these stimuli. LPS tolerance and cross-tolerance were examined in THP-1 cells. Phosphorylation of MAP kinases and degradation of inhibitor kappaBalpha (IkappaBalpha) DNA binding of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB), and mediator production were examined. In naive cells, LPS, TNF-alpha, and IL-1beta induced IkappaBalpha degradation, kinase phosphorylation, and NF-kappaB DNA binding. LPS stimulation induced production of TNF-alpha or TxB2 and degradation of IRAK. However, neither TNF-alpha nor IL-1beta induced IRAK degradation or stimulated TNF-alpha or TxB2 production in naive cells. Pretreatment with each stimulus induced homologous tolerance to restimulation with the same agonist. LPS tolerance also suppressed LPS-induced TxB2 and TNF-alpha production. LPS pretreatment induced cross-tolerance to TNF-alpha or IL-1beta stimulation. Pretreatment with TNF-alpha induced cross-tolerance to LPS-induced signaling events and TxB2 production. Although pretreatment with IL-1beta did not induce cross-tolerance to LPS-induced signaling events, it strongly inhibited LPS TNF-alpha and TxB2 production. These data demonstrate that IL-1beta induces cross-tolerance to LPS-induced mediator production without suppressing LPS-induced signaling to MAP kinases or NF-kappaB activation.
This study compares personality traits of men and women with anorexia nervosa and matched controls. The Temperament and Character Inventory was used to assess personality traits of 15 male and 50 female anorectics and 28 male and 58 female controls matched for age and education. Male anorectic patients displayed overall lower reward dependence and cooperativeness. Male and female anorectics displayed higher persistence and lower self-directedness than controls. Anorectic men had lower harm avoidance than anorectic women. Discriminating analysis revealed the anorectic male group as the most clearly defined. Anorectic men shared more traits with anorectic women than with male controls. Temperament and character of anorectic men reflect features partly similar to those of women with anorexia. Personal history and discriminating analysis led to interesting inferences about the gender identity of anorectic men. These results should be helpful in directing pharmacologic and psychotherapeutic approaches that consider the specific personality traits of these patients.
The effect of adenosine A(2) receptor agonist 2-[p-(2-carboxyethyl)phenylethylamino]-5'-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine (CGS 21680) and antagonist 3,7-dimethyl-1-propargylxanthine (DMPX) on [1-(13)C]glucose and [1,2-(13)C]acetate metabolism was studied in rats by (13)C magnetic resonance (MR) spectroscopy and HPLC. In the cortex a significant reduction was observed in the amounts of [2-(13)C]GABA and [3-(13)C]aspartate from [1-(13)C]glucose in CGS 21680. In the subcortex the concentration of labelled [4-(13)C]glutamate was increased in both treatment groups. The amounts of [2 + 3-(13)C]succinate and [3-(13)C]lactate were increased in the CGS 21680 group compared to control, and the DMPX group showed an increase in the total amount of [6-(13)C]N-acetyl aspartate compared to control in the subcortex. Astrocyte metabolism was only affected in the cortex as shown by a decrease in the pyruvate carboxylase/pyruvate dehydrogenase ratio in glutamate and glutamine in the treatment groups. Labelling from [1,2-(13)C]acetate was not much affected by CGS 21680 or DMPX. However, the amount of [1,2-(13)C]acetate in cortex and subcortex was reduced in the DMPX group. In the cortex a reduction in the labelling of [3-(13)C]GABA in the DMPX group compared to control and an increase in the total amount of taurine in both treatment groups was detected. The present study shows that A(2) receptor agonist and antagonist have similar effects; however, in cortex GABAergic neurones and astrocytes were affected in contrast to subcortex, where glutamatergic neurones showed the greatest changes.
Brain ageing is associated with a dysregulation of intracellular calcium (Ca(2+)) homeostasis which leads to deficits in Ca(2+)-dependent signalling pathways and altered neuronal functions. Given the crucial role of neurogranin/RC3 (Ng) in the post-synaptic regulation of Ca(2+) and calmodulin levels, age-dependent changes in the levels of Ng mRNA and protein expression were analysed in 3, 12, 24 and 31-month-old mouse brains. Ageing produced significant decreases in Ng mRNA expression in the dorsal hippocampal subfields, retrosplenial and primary motor cortices, whereas no reliable changes were seen in any other cortical regions examined. Western blot indicated that Ng protein expression was also down-regulated in the ageing mouse brain. Analysis of Ng immunoreactivity in both hippocampal CA1 and retrosplenial areas indicated that Ng protein in aged mice decreased predominantly in the dendritic segments of pyramidal neurones. These data suggest that age-related changes of post-synaptic Ng in selected brain areas, and particularly in hippocampus, may contribute to altered Ca(2+)/calmodulin-signalling pathways and to region-specific impairments of synaptic plasticity and cognitive decline.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) leads to an increase in extracellular excitatory amino acid (EAA) concentrations resulting in glutamate receptor-mediated excitotoxic events. The glutamate receptors include ionotropic (iGluRs) and metabotropic (mGluR) receptors. Of the three groups of mGluRs, group-I activation can initiate intracellular pathways that lead to further transmitter release. Groups II and III mGluRs function mainly as autoreceptors to regulate neurotransmitter release. In an effort to examine the role of mGluRs in the increase in EAAs following SCI, we administered AIDA, a potent group-I mGluR antagonist immediately after injury. To determine subtype specific roles of the group-I mGluRs, we evaluated EAA release following LY 367385 (mGluR1 antagonist) and MPEP (mGluR5 antagonist) administration. To evaluate group-II and -III mGluRs we administered APDC (group-II agonist) and L-AP4 (group-III agonist) immediately following injury; additionally, we initiated treatment with CPPG (group-II/-III antagonist) and LY 341495 (group-II antagonist) 5 min prior to injury. Subjects were adult male Sprague-Dawley rats (225-250 g), impact injured at T10 with an NYU impactor (12.5 mm drop). Agents were injected into the epicenter of injury, amino acids where collected by microdialysis fibers inserted 0.5 mm caudal from the edge of the impact region and quantified by HPLC. Treatment with AIDA significantly decreased extracellular EAA and GABA concentrations. MPEP reduced EAA concentrations without affecting GABA. Combining LY 367385 and MPEP resulted in a decrease in EAA and GABA concentrations greater than either agent alone. L-AP4 decreased EAA levels, while treatment with LY 341495 increased EAA levels. These results suggest that mGluRs play an important role in EAA toxicity following SCI.
Previous studies have implicated a number of biochemical pathways in the etiology of bipolar disorder (BD). However, the precise abnormalities underlying this disorder remain to be established. To investigate novel factors that may be important in the pathophysiology of BD, we utilized cDNA expression arrays to examine differences in expression of up to 1200 genes known to be involved in potentially relevant biochemical processes. This investigation was undertaken in post-mortem samples of frontal cortex tissue from patients with BD and matched controls, obtained (n = 10/group) from the Stanley Foundation Neuropathology Consortium. Results include significant (greater than 35% change in signal intensity) differences between BD and controls in a number of genes (n = 24). Selected targets were analyzed by RT-PCR, which confirmed a decrease in transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta 1), and an increase in both caspase-8 precursor (casp-8) and transducer of erbB2 (Tob) expression in BD. We further observed a significant decrease of TGF-beta 1 mRNA levels in BD by RT-PCR in individual post-mortem samples. Given the neuroprotective role attributed to this inhibitory cytokine, our results suggest that the down-regulation of TGF-beta 1 may lead to various neurotoxic insults potentially involved in the etiology of certain mood disorders.
Glutamate-induced excitotoxicity is suggested to play a central role in the development of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), although it is still unclear whether it represents a primary cause in the cascade leading to motor neurone death. We used western blotting, immunocytochemistry and in situ hybridization to examine the expression of GLT-1 in transgenic mice carrying a mutated (G93A) human copper-zinc superoxide dismutase (TgSOD1 G93A), which closely mimic the features of ALS. We observed a progressive decrease in the immunoreactivity of the glial glutamate transporter (GLT-1) in the ventral, but not in the dorsal, horn of lumbar spinal cord. This effect was specifically found in 14- and 18-week-old mice that had motor function impairment, motor neurone loss and reactive astrocytosis. No changes in GLT-1 were observed at 8 weeks of age, before the appearance of clinical symptoms. Decreases in GLT-1 were accompanied by increased glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) levels and no change in the levels of GLAST, another glial glutamate transporter. The glutamate concentration in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of TgSOD1 G93A mice was not modified at any of the time points examined, compared with age-matched controls. These findings indicate that the loss of GLT-1 protein in ALS mice selectively occurs in the areas affected by neurodegeneration and reactive astrocytosis and it is not associated with increases of glutamate levels in CSF. The lack of changes in GLT-1 at the presymptomatic stage suggests that glial glutamate transporter reduction is not a primary event leading to motor neurone loss.
GTP cyclohydrolase I (GTPCH) gene expression was investigated in the human monoamine-containing neuroblastoma cell line SK-N-BE(2)M17. Northern blot analysis revealed a single GTPCH mRNA transcript that was confirmed by RNase protection assay to encode for Type 1 GTPCH; no alternatively spliced forms of GTPCH mRNA were detected with this assay. Incubation with 8Br-cAMP, but not nerve growth factor or leukemia inhibitory factor, produced a rapid increase in GTPCH mRNA and protein levels; protein levels remained elevated during the entire treatment period while mRNA content declined rapidly between 10 and 24 h. Treatment with 8Br-cAMP did not significantly modify the stability of GTPCH mRNA but did increase GTPCH transcription as determined by transient transfection assays of a luciferase reporter construct containing 1171 bp of human GTPCH 5'-flanking sequence. Cis-acting elements required for maximal basal and cAMP-dependent transcription were localized by deletion analysis to the 146 bp proximal promoter. DNase I footprint analysis of the proximal promoter using SK-N-BE(2)M17 nuclear extracts identified two protein binding domains: one an upstream Sp1-like site and the other a combined CRE-Sp1-CCAAT-box element. EMSA and supershift assays demonstrated that the combined CRE-Sp1-CCAAT-box element recruits ATF-2 and NF-Y but not Sp1-4 or Egr-1-3. NF-Y binding was confirmed using pure recombinant human NF-Y protein. Transcription of the human GTPCH gene in human SK-N-BE(2)M17 cells is thus enhanced by cAMP acting through regulatory elements located in the proximal promoter and may involve the transcription factors NF-Y and ATF-2.
There is extensive experimental evidence indicating a crucial role for glutamate in epileptogenesis and epileptic activity. The glial glutamate transporters GLT1 and GLAST are proposed to account for the majority of extracellular glutamate re-uptake. In the present study, polyclonal antibodies specific to GLT1 and GLAST were generated and characterized, revealing distribution patterns for the two transporters confirming those previously reported. In situ hybridization and immunoblotting were then used to compare levels of these two transporters in the parietal cortex and hippocampus of unstimulated and stimulated EL mice with DDY control mice. Additionally, HPLC determined tissue glutamate concentrations in the same regions of these animals. These experiments revealed reductions in GLT1 mRNA and protein in the parietal cortex of unstimulated and stimulated EL mice compared with DDY controls, accompanied by an increase in tissue glutamate concentration in the stimulated EL mice group. GLT1 mRNA was also reduced in the CA3 hippocampal subfield of both unstimulated and stimulated EL mice. GLAST protein was reduced in the hippocampus of the stimulated EL mice group, while no changes in GLAST mRNA or protein were detected in the parietal cortex of EL mice when compared with DDY controls. The glial glutamate transporter down-regulation reported here may play a role in seizure initiation, spread and maintenance in the EL mouse.
We investigated the temporal expression of the neural cell adhesion molecule, neurotrimin, in the rat cerebellum and the brainstem from birth to adulthood using immunoreactive labeling. A wave of expression accompanied the development of projection pathways extending from brainstem nuclei (pons/inferior olive) through the cerebellar peduncles into the arbor vitae and disappeared with myelination by P14. Immuno-EM revealed expression of neurotrimin on the surface of unmyelinated axons but not on astrocytes or oligodendroglia. With the development of the molecular and internal granular layers, intense labeling occurred on the surface of parallel fiber bundles, granule cells and mossy fibers. With synaptogenesis, each excitatory junction was labeled by the immunoreaction. By P21, neurotrimin reactivity decreased on the surfaces of neuronal somata, dendrites and axons but remained at excitatory synaptic contact sites in both the molecular and granular layers. The spatial-temporal expression pattern of neurotrimin suggests that this adhesion molecule plays a role in axonal fasciculation of specific cerebellar systems and may also be involved in the formation of excitatory synapses and their stabilization into adulthood.
Our previous studies have demonstrated the presence of substantial amounts of peptidergic nerve fibres in the anterior pituitary of monkeys, dogs and rats. The nerve fibres increase in number following adrenalectomy and ovariectomy. Furthermore, typical synapses between nerve fibres and anterior pituitary glandular cells have been demonstrated in the dog and rat, strongly suggesting the existence of some direct neural regulation. However, it is difficult to evaluate the functional importance of synapses or nerve terminals in general, unless quantitative data can be provided. The present study therefore aimed to quantify the number of terminals or varicosities in the anterior pituitary of the rat and its changes following adrenalectomy. Nerve terminals or varicosities were identified by their synaptophysin (SYN)-like immunoreactivity. Under the light microscope, SYN-like immunoreactivity appeared mainly as dots, mostly among glandular cells, and some were found distributed along blood vessels. SYN-like immunoreactive dots were found under the electron microscope to be localized in the nerve terminals or varicosities. Synapse-like contracts between the nerve terminals or varicosities and the glandular cells could be identified. The number of SYN-like immunoreactive nerve terminals or varicosities was then counted under the light microscope. There were as many as 12424.2 +/- 2941.5 and 20700.4 +/- 6128 (mean +/- SD) nerve terminals or varicosities per anterior pituitary of normal and adrenalectomized rats, respectively. The increase in number following adrenalectomy was statistically significant. It is concluded that nerve fibres may play an important role in the regulation of the anterior pituitary.
Central autonomic and neuroendocrine activities are important components of the host response to bacterial inflammation. We demonstrate that intravenous infusion of gamma(2)-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (gamma(2)-MSH), a potent autonomic regulating peptide, prevents lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced hypotension and tachycardia, and modulates the ACTH response to endotoxin. In the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus, a major neuroendocrine and autonomic center, gamma(2)-MSH inhibits LPS-induced increases in CRF mRNA levels, but does not suppress LPS-augmented arginine vasopressin heteronuclear RNA expression. In the locus coeruleus, a brainstem noradrenergic center, gamma(2)-MSH inhibits LPS-induced increases in tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA levels. Gamma(2)-MSH inhibits LPS-induced IL-1beta gene expression in the brain, pituitary and thymus, and prevents increases in plasma NO levels. These findings reveal that gamma(2)-MSH attenuates systemic inflammatory responses to endotoxin and suggest that modulation of central autonomic and neuroendocrine activities by gamma(2)-MSH contributes to its anti-inflammatory effects.


A [(18)F]-FDG PET study was performed in a 44 year old man with proximal kinesigenic choreoathetosis (PKC) secondary to idiopathic primary hypoparathyroidism (IPH) before and 1 year after calcium/calcitriol therapy. The [(18)F]-FDG PET performed before the start of the therapy disclosed a significant bilateral hypometabolism in the ventral striatum. One year later, with the patient still under calcium/calcitriol therapy and free of any occurrence of PKC episodes, the [(18)F]-FDG PET did not show the previously detected hypometabolism. The hypometabolism of the ventral striatum secondary to hypocalcaemia seems to play a crucial part in the pathogenesis of paroxysmal kinesigenic choreoathetosis associated with IPH.
Parkinson's disease is a nosological entity of unknown origin for which, in some cases, a possible pathogenetic role for mitochondrial dysfunction has been postulated. Two young onset parkinsonian patients with mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) deletions in skeletal muscle are reported on. Patient 1 also presented with increased blood creatine kinase and lactate concentrations and a family history which included a wide range of phenotypes affecting multiple systems. Patient 2 presented with multiple symmetric lipomatosis. Histopathological investigation showed ragged red fibres and COX negative fibres in muscle biopsies from both patients. The data support the hypothesis that mitochondrial DNA mutations may occur in some cases of parkinsonism, suggesting that a diagnosis of a mitochondrial disorder should be considered in the presence of consistent family history and clinical symptoms.
This study examined the conditions that are required for the appearance of the long-duration seizure-like activity that can be recorded in hippocampal slices. Spontaneous interictal activity was induced in CA1 and CA3 by perfusing hippocampal slices with high potassium, cesium, 4-aminopyridine, or tetraethylammonium chloride, in normal levels of calcium. Synaptic transmission was then blocked by the addition of neurotransmitter receptor blockers (6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione, D,L-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid, and bicuculline) or the calcium channel blocker cadmium, resulting in complete blockade of the interictal discharges and the appearance of spontaneous seizure-like events (ictal-like discharges) primarily in CA1 and the dentate gyrus. Blocking synaptic transmission in normal artificial cerebrospinal fluid did not induce ictal-like discharges in any region. The results demonstrate that ictal-like discharges can appear in normal levels of extracellular calcium when chemical synaptic transmission is blocked pharmacologically. The results suggest that an increase in neuronal excitability and absence of interictal activity promote the appearance of the longer ictal-like discharges.
We studied the neural correlates of turning movements during fictive locomotion in a lamprey in vitro brain-spinal cord preparation. Electrical stimulation of the skin on one side of the head was used to evoke fictive turns. Intracellular recordings were performed from reticulospinal cells in the middle (MRRN) and posterior (PRRN) rhombencephalic reticular nuclei, and from Mauthner cells, to characterize the pattern of activity in these cell groups, and their possible functional role for the generation of turns. All recorded reticulospinal neurons modified their activity during turns. Many cells in both the rostral and the caudal MRRN, and Mauthner cells, were strongly excited during turning. The level of activity of cells in rostral PRRN was lower, while the lowest degree of activation was found in cells in caudal PRRN, suggesting that MRRN may play a more important role for the generation of turning behavior. The sign of the response (i.e., excitation or inhibition) to skin stimulation of a neuron during turns toward (ipsilateral), or away from (contralateral) the side of the cell body was always the same. The cells could thus be divided into four types: 1) cells that were excited during ipsilateral turns and inhibited during contralateral turns; these cells provide an asymmetric excitatory bias to spinal networks and presumably play an important role for the generation of turns; these cells were common (n = 35; 52%) in both MRRN and PRRN; 2) cells that were excited during turns in either direction; these cells were common (n = 19; 28%), in particular in MRRN; they could be involved in a general activation of the locomotor system after skin stimulation; some of the cells were also more activated during turns in one direction and could contribute to an asymmetric turn command; 3) one cell that was inhibited during ipsilateral turns and excited during contralateral turns; and 4) cells (n = 12; 18%) that were inhibited during turns in either direction. In summary, our results show that, in the lamprey, the large majority of reticulospinal cells have responses during lateral turns that are indicative of a causal role for these cells in turn generation. This also suggests a considerable overlap between the command system for lateral turns evoked by skin stimulation, which was studied here, and other reticulospinal command systems, e.g., for lateral turns evoked by other types of stimuli, initiation of locomotion, and turns in the vertical planes.
The activity of motoneurons during lateral turns was studied in a lower vertebrate, the lamprey, to investigate how a supraspinal command for the change of direction during locomotion is transmitted from the brain stem and integrated with the activity of the spinal locomotor pattern generator. Three types of experiments were performed. 1) The muscular activity during lateral turns in freely swimming adult lampreys was recorded by electromyography (EMG). It was characterized by increased cycle duration and increased duration, intensity, and cycle proportion of the bursts on the side toward which the animal turns. 2) Electrical stimulation of the skin on one side of the head in a head-spinal cord preparation of the lamprey during fictive locomotion elicited asymmetric ventral root burst activity with similar characteristics as observed in the EMG of intact lampreys during lateral turns. The cycle duration and ventral root burst intensity, duration, and cycle proportion on the side of the spinal cord contralateral to the stimulus were increased; hence a fictive lateral turn away from the stimulus could be produced. The fictive turn propagated caudally with decreasing amplitude. The increase in burst duration during the turn correlated well with the increase in cycle duration, while changes in contralateral burst intensity and burst duration did not co-vary. Turning responses varied depending on the timing (phase) of the skin stimulation: stimuli in the first two-thirds of a cycle evoked a turn in the same cycle, whereas stimuli in the last third gave a turn in the following cycle. The largest turns were evoked by stimuli in the first third of a cycle. 3) Fictive turns were abolished after transection of the trigeminal nerve or a rhombencephalic midline split, but not in a rhombencephalic preparation with transected cerebellar commissure. High spinal hemisection was sufficient to block turning toward the lesioned side, while turns toward the intact side remained. Taken together these findings suggest that the reticulospinal turn command is essentially unilateral and generated in the rhombencephalon.
Previous studies have revealed a loss of neurons in layer III of the entorhinal cortex (EC) in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy. These neurons project to the hippocampus and may activate inhibitory interneurons, so that their loss could disrupt inhibitory function in the hippocampus. The present study evaluates this hypothesis in a rat model in which layer III neurons were selectively destroyed by focal injections of the indirect excitotoxin, aminooxyacetic acid (AOAA). Inhibitory function in the hippocampus was assessed by evaluating the discharge of CA1 neurons in response to stimulation of afferent pathways in vivo. In control animals, stimulation of the temporo-ammonic pathway leads to heterosynaptic inhibition of population spikes generated by subsequent stimulation of the commissural projection to CA1. This heterosynaptic inhibition was substantially reduced in animals that had received AOAA injections 1 mo previously. Stimulation of the commissural projection also elicited multiple population spikes in CA1 in AOAA-injected animals, and homosynaptic inhibition in response to paired-pulse stimulation of the commissural projection was dramatically diminished. These results suggest a disruption of inhibitory function in CA1 in AOAA-injected animals. To determine whether the disruption of inhibition occurred selectively in CA1, we assessed paired-pulse inhibition in the dentate gyrus. Both homosynaptic inhibition generated by paired-pulse stimulation of the perforant path, and heterosynaptic inhibition produced by activation of the commissural projection to the dentate gyrus appeared largely comparable in AOAA-injected and control animals; thus abnormalities in inhibitory function following AOAA injections occurred relatively selectively in CA1. Electrolytic lesions of the EC did not cause the same loss of inhibition as seen in animals with AOAA injections, indicating that the loss of inhibition in CA1 is not due to the loss of excitatory driving of inhibitory interneurons. Also, electrolytic lesions of the EC in animals that had been injected previously with AOAA had little effect on the abnormal physiological responses in CA1, suggesting that most alterations in inhibition in CA1 are not due to circuit abnormalities within the EC. Comparisons of control and AOAA-injected animals in a hippocampal kindling paradigm revealed that the duration of afterdischarges elicited by high-frequency stimulation of CA3, and the number of stimulations required to elicit kindled seizures were comparable. Taken together, our results reveal that the selective loss of layer III neurons induced by AOAA disrupts inhibitory function in CA1, but this does not create a circuit that is more prone to at least one form of kindling.
The main olfactory bulb receives a significant modulatory noradrenergic input from the locus coeruleus. Previous in vivo and in vitro studies showed that norepinephrine (NE) inputs increase the sensitivity of mitral cells to weak olfactory inputs. The cellular basis for this action of NE is not understood. The goal of this study was to investigate the effect of NE and noradrenergic agonists on the excitability of mitral cells, the main output cells of the olfactory bulb, using whole cell patch-clamp recording in vitro. The noradrenergic agonists, phenylephrine (PE, 10 microM), isoproterenol (Isop, 10 microM), and clonidine (3 microM), were used to test for the functional presence of alpha1-, beta-, and alpha2-receptors, respectively, on mitral cells. None of these agonists affected olfactory nerve (ON)-evoked field potentials recorded in the glomerular layer, or ON-evoked postsynaptic currents recorded in mitral cells. In whole cell voltage-clamp recordings, NE (30 microM) induced an inward current (54 +/- 7 pA, n = 16) with an EC(50) of 4.7 microM. Both PE and Isop also produced inward currents (22 +/- 4 pA, n = 19, and 29 +/- 9 pA, n = 8, respectively), while clonidine produced no effect (n = 6). In the presence of TTX (1 microM), and blockers of excitatory and inhibitory fast synaptic transmission [gabazine 5 microM, 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX) 10 microM, and (+/-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (APV) 50 microM], the inward current induced by PE persisted (EC(50) = 9 microM), whereas that of Isop was absent. The effect of PE was also observed in the presence of the Ca(2+) channel blockers, cadmium (100 microM) and nickel (100 microM). The inward current caused by PE was blocked when the interior of the cell was perfused with the nonhydrolyzable GDP analogue, GDPbetaS, indicating that the alpha1 effect is mediated by G-protein coupling. The current-voltage relationship in the absence and presence of PE indicated that the current induced by PE decreased near the equilibrium potential for potassium ions. In current-clamp recordings from bistable mitral cells, PE shifted the membrane potential from the downstate (-52 mV) toward the upstate (-40 mV), and significantly increased spike generation in response to perithreshold ON input. These findings indicate that NE excites mitral cells directly via alpha1 receptors, an effect that may underlie, at least in part, increased mitral cell responses to weak ON input during locus coeruleus activation in vivo.
Prompted by the observation that the slope of the relationship between average rectified electromyography (EMG) and the ensemble activation rate of a pool of motor units progressively decreased (showing a downward nonlinearity), an experimental study was carried out to test the widely held notion that the EMG is the simple algebraic sum of motor-unit action-potential trains. The experiments were performed on the cat soleus muscle under isometric conditions, using electrical stimulation of alpha-motor axons isolated in ventral root filaments. The EMG signals were simulated experimentally under conditions where the activation of nearly the entire pool of motor units or of subsets of motor units was completely controlled by the experimenter. Sets of individual motor units or of small groups of motor units were stimulated independently, using stimulation profiles that were strictly repeatable between trials. This permitted a rigorous quantitative comparison of EMGs that were recorded during combined activation of multiple motor filaments with EMGs that were synthesized from the algebraic summation of motor unit action potential trains generated by individual nerve filaments. These were recorded separately by individually stimulating the same filaments with the same activation profiles that were employed during combined stimulation. During combined activation of up to 10 motor filaments, experimentally recorded and computationally synthesized EMGs were virtually identical. This indicates that EMG signals indeed are the outcome of the simple algebraic summation of motor-unit action-potential trains generated by concurrently active motor units. For both recorded and synthesized EMGs, it was confirmed that EMG magnitude increased nonlinearly with the ensemble activation rate of a pool of motor units. The nonlinearity was largely abolished when EMG magnitude was estimated as the sum of rectified, instead of raw, motor-unit action-potential trains. This suggests that the downward nonlinearity in the EMG-ensemble activation rate relation is due to signal cancellation arising from the perfectly linear summation of positive and negative components of action-potential waveforms. The findings provide a much needed post hoc validation of the concept of EMG generation by strict algebraic summation of motor unit action potentials that is generally relied on in theoretical modeling studies of EMG and in EMG decomposition algorithms.
The role of limbic-striato-pallidal circuitry in cocaine-induced reinstatement was evaluated. The transient inhibition of brain nuclei associated with motor systems [including the ventral tegmental area (VTA), dorsal prefrontal cortex (dPFC), core of the nucleus accumbens (NAcore), and ventral pallidum (VP)] prevented cocaine-induced reinstatement. However, only the VP proved to be necessary for food reinstatement, suggesting that the identified circuit is specific to drug-related reinstatement. Supporting the possibility that the VTA-dPFC-NAcore-VP is a series circuit mediating reinstatement, simultaneous unilateral microinjection of GABA agonists into the dPFC in one hemisphere and into the VP in the contralateral hemisphere abolished cocaine reinstatement. Although dopamine projections from the VTA innervate all three forebrain nuclei, the blockade of dopamine receptors only in the dPFC antagonized cocaine-induced reinstatement. Furthermore, DA administration into the dPFC was sufficient to elicit a reinstatement in drug-related responding. These data demonstrate that dopamine release in the dPFC initiates a dPFC-NAcore-VP series circuit that mediates cocaine-induced drug-seeking behavior.
3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA; &quot;Ecstasy&quot;) increases body temperature. This process could be associated with increased cutaneous blood flow, as normally occurs with exercise-induced hyperthermia. Alternatively, an MDMA-induced fall in cutaneous blood flow could contribute to the hyperthermia by diminishing normal heat transfer from the body to the environment. We investigated these possibilities by administering MDMA (1.5-6 mg/kg, i.v.) to conscious freely moving rabbits, determining effects on body temperature, cutaneous blood flow (measured by a Doppler ultrasonic probe that was chronically implanted around the ear pinna artery), and other cardiovascular parameters. MDMA caused a dose-dependent increase in body temperature (from 38.3 +/- 0.3 to 41.2 +/- 0.4 degrees C after 6 mg/kg; p &lt; 0.01; n = 5), preceded and accompanied by a dose-dependent cutaneous vasoconstriction (from 29 +/- 6 to 5 +/- 1 cm/sec after 6 mg/kg; p &lt; 0.01; n = 5). MDMA (3 mg/kg) did not change blood flow to the mesenteric vascular bed. Prior unilateral cervical sympathectomy reduced the increase in body temperature elicited by MDMA (6 mg/kg) from 2.0 +/- 0.2 to 1.3 +/- 0.2 degrees C (p &lt; 0.01; n = 5). On the denervated side, ear pinna blood flow after MDMA injection was 13 +/- 3 cm/sec, compared with 3 +/- 1 cm/sec on the sympathetically intact side (p &lt; 0.05; n = 5). Thus, sympathetically mediated cutaneous vasoconstriction is one mechanism whereby MDMA causes hyperthermia. Reversal of cutaneous vasoconstriction by appropriate pharmacological means could be of therapeutic benefit in humans suffering from life-threatening hyperthermia induced by MDMA.
Increased levels of glutamate and the subsequent activation of NMDA receptors are responsible for neuronal damage that occurs after an ischemic or hypoxic episode. In the present work, we investigated the relative contribution of presynaptic and postsynaptic blockade of synaptic transmission, as well as of blockade of NMDA receptors, for the facilitation of recovery of synaptic transmission in the CA1 area of rat hippocampal slices exposed to prolonged (90 min) hypoxia. During hypoxia, there was a complete inhibition of field EPSPs, which was fully reversible if released adenosine was allowed to act. When adenosine A(1) receptors were blocked with the selective antagonist 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine (DPCPX), recovery of synaptic transmission from hypoxia was significantly attenuated, and this impairment could be overcome by preventing synaptic transmission during hypoxia either with tetrodotoxin (TTX) or by switching off the afferent stimulation but not by postsynaptic blockade of transmission with 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX) or selective blockade of adenosine A(2A) receptors. When synaptic transmission was allowed to occur during hypoxia, because of the presence of DPCPX, there was an NMDA receptor-mediated component of the EPSCs recorded in CA1 pyramidal neurons, and blockade of NMDA receptors with AP-5 restored recovery of synaptic transmission from hypoxia. It is concluded that impairment of recovery of synaptic transmission after an hypoxic insult results from activation of synaptic NMDA receptors by synaptically released glutamate and that adenosine by preventing this activation efficiently facilitates recovery.
Epilepsy is a common outcome of traumatic brain injury (TBI), but the mechanisms of posttraumatic epileptogenesis are poorly understood. One clue is the occurrence of selective hippocampal cell death after fluid-percussion TBI in rats, consistent with the reported reduction of hippocampal volume bilaterally in humans after TBI and resembling hippocampal sclerosis, a hallmark of temporal-lobe epilepsy. Other features of temporal-lobe epilepsy, such as long-term seizure susceptibility, persistent hyperexcitability in the dentate gyrus (DG), and mossy fiber synaptic reorganization, however, have not been examined after TBI. To determine whether TBI induces these changes, we used a well studied model of TBI by weight drop on somatosensory cortex in adult rats. First, we confirmed an early and selective cell loss in the hilus of the DG and area CA3 of hippocampus, ipsilateral to the impact. Second, we found persistently enhanced susceptibility to pentylenetetrazole-induced convulsions 15 weeks after TBI. Third, by applying GABA(A) antagonists during field-potential and optical recordings in hippocampal slices 3 and 15 weeks after TBI, we unmasked a persistent, abnormal APV-sensitive hyperexcitability that was bilateral and localized to the granule cell and molecular layers of the DG. Finally, using Timm histochemistry, we detected progressive sprouting of mossy fibers into the inner molecular layers of the DG bilaterally 2-27 weeks after TBI. These findings are consistent with the development of posttraumatic epilepsy in an animal model of impact head injury, showing a striking similarity to the enduring behavioral, functional, and structural alterations associated with temporal-lobe epilepsy.
Voltage-gated sodium channels (VGSCs) are highly concentrated at the neuromuscular junction (NMJ) in mammalian skeletal muscle. Here we test the hypothesis that local upregulation of mRNA contributes to this accumulation. We designed radiolabeled antisense RNA probes, specific for the &quot;adult&quot; Na(V)1.4 and &quot;fetal&quot; Na(V)1.5 isoforms of VGSC in mammalian skeletal muscle, and used them in in situ hybridization studies of rat soleus muscles. Na(V)1.4 mRNA is present throughout normal adult muscles but is highly concentrated at the NMJ, in which the amount per myonucleus is more than eightfold greater than away from the NMJ. Na(V)1.5 mRNA is undetectable in innervated muscles but is dramatically upregulated by denervation. In muscles denervated for 1 week, both Na(V)1.4 and Na(V)1.5 mRNAs are present throughout the muscle, and both are concentrated at the NMJ. No Na(V)1.5 mRNA was detectable in denervated muscles stimulated electrically for 1 week in vivo. Neither denervation nor stimulation had any significant effect on the level or distribution of Na(V)1.4 mRNA. We conclude that factors, probably derived from the nerve, lead to the increased concentration of VGSC mRNAs at the NMJ. In addition, the expression of Na(V)1.5 mRNA is downregulated by muscle activity, both at the NMJ and away from it.
The actin cytoskeleton, essential for neuronal development, is regulated in part by small GTP binding proteins of the Rho subfamily. Kalirin-9, with two Rho subfamily-specific GDP/GTP exchange factor (GEF) domains, localizes to neurites and growth cones of primary cortical neurons. Kalirin-9 overexpression in cultured cortical neurons induces longer neurites and altered neuronal morphology. Expression of the first GEF domain alone results in drastically shortened axons and excessive growth cones, mediated by Rac1. Expression of the second GEF domain alone induces axonal over-elongation and abundant filopodial neurites, mediated by RhoA. Coordination of the actions of the individual GEF domains through their presence in Kalirin-9, with its Sec14p, spectrin, and Src homology domain 3 motifs, is essential for regulating neurite extension and neuronal morphology.
The term psychogenomics is used here to describe the process of applying the powerful tools of genomics and proteomics to achieve a better understanding of the biological substrates of normal behavior and of diseases of the brain that manifest themselves as behavioral abnormalities. Applying psychogenomics to the study of drug addiction will lead to the identification of genes and their protein products that control the reward pathways of the brain and their adaptations to drugs of abuse, as well as variations in these genes that confer genetic risk for addiction and related disorders. The ultimate goal is to use this information to develop more effective treatments for these disorders as well as objective diagnostic tools, preventive measures, and eventually cures.
The plasma membrane transporters that clear extracellular serotonin (5-HT) and norepinephrine (NE), serotonin transporters (SERTs) and NE transporters (NETs), have received considerable attention over the past four decades because of their roles in amine neurotransmitter inactivation. In addition, they interact with many centrally active drugs, including multiple classes of antidepressants such as the serotonin-selective reuptake inhibitors, typified by fluoxetine (Prozac), and the more recently developed norepinephrine-selective transporter antagonists, such as reboxetine. The therapeutic utility of these agents supports biogenic amine theories of affective disorders and raises the question as to whether SERT and NET exhibit a functional genetic variation that could influence risk for behavioral disorders. Although evidence exists that a promoter polymorphism in SERT may influence behavioral states, this contention is not without complexity and its mechanism of action remains poorly understood. The identification of coding variants of NETs and SERTs would offer important opportunities to connect genotype to phenotype. However, given the limited frequency of transporter coding variations evident to date in general population surveys or in psychiatric genetic studies, the identification of informative functional variants of transporters will likely require refined phenotypes. In this regard, NET and SERT play critical roles in cardiovascular and gastrointestinal physiology, respectively. This perspective reviews recent human and mouse studies that suggest how peripheral autonomic phenotypes, linked to genetic disruption of NET and SERT function, can aid in the phenotypic segregation needed for advanced theories of biogenic amine dysfunction and pharmacogenetics.
Proteomic tools offer a new platform for studies of complex biological functions involving large numbers and networks of proteins. Intracellular networks of proteins perform key functions in neurons and glia. The unicellular eukaryote Saccharomyces cerevisiae has been the prototype for eukaryotic proteomic studies, and when combined with genomics, microarrays, genetics, and pharmacology, new insights into the integrated function of the cell emerge. The anatomical complexity of the nervous system both in cell types and in the vast number of synapses introduces novel technical and biological issues regarding the subcellular organization of protein networks. Here we will discuss the technology of proteomics and its applications to the nervous system.


The objective of this study was to compare cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) levels of the light subtype of the neurofilament proteins (NFL), tau, and beta-amyloid42 (Abeta42) in individuals with moderate or severe white matter changes (WMC) and in those with mild or no WMC. Twenty-two patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), nine patients with subcortical vascular dementia (SVD), and 20 normal controls were included in the study. The occurrence of WMC was evaluated by a neuroradiologist using the Blennow-Wallin scale. Thirty-seven subjects had no or only punctate WMC; 14 had moderate to severe WMC. Both diagnostic group and WMC, but not gender or apolipoproteinE E4 inheritance, contributed to the variance in the CSF levels of tau, NFL, and Abeta42. In patients with moderate to severe WMC, CSF NFL (P &lt; 0.01), but not CSF tau or CSF Abeta42, was increased also after correction for age, gender, and degree of cognitive impairment. A comparison between patients and controls with any signs of WMC and those without such signs yielded a similar result: CSF NFL (P &lt; 0.001) was increased in the group with signs of WMC. As in numerous previous studies, we found that CSF tau was increased in AD (P &lt; 0.001) compared with controls. Furthermore, CSF NFL was increased in both AD and SVD compared with controls (P &lt; 0.001 for both). Although diagnostic group seems to be a stronger predictor of the variance found in CSF NFL, a clear association between the presence of WMC and increased CSF NFL was found. Because NFL is located mainly in large myelinated axons, increased CSF NFL in individuals with WMC probably reflects axonal degeneration.
The proliferation of type-1 astrocytes is strongly inhibited by homotypic cell-contact. To examine the mechanisms mediating this inhibition of proliferation, the expression of cell cycle related proteins was compared between exponential growth-phase and contact-inhibited astrocytes. Expression of the cyclin-dependent kinase (Cdk) inhibitor p27Kip1 was upregulated 10-fold in confluent compared with growth-phase cultures. Density-induced expression of p27Kip1 was reversible. When confluent cultures of astrocytes expressing high levels of p27Kip1 were replated at low density, the expression of p27Kip1 decreased rapidly. In contrast to p27Kip1, the expression levels of the cell cycle protein, cyclin A was decreased ten-fold in confluent cultures compared with those in growth phase. In addition, the ratio of hyperphosphorylated to hypophosphorylated retinoblastoma protein (pRb) decreased concomitantly with the increase of p27Kip1 and the decrease of cyclin A levels. These results suggest that increased expression of p27Kip1 and decreased expression of cyclin A underlie the reduction in proliferation of contact inhibited astrocytes. High levels of mitogenic stimulation could transiently override contact-dependent inhibition of astrocyte proliferation. Addition of exogenous epidermal growth factor (EGF) resulted in elevated proliferation at high density and formation of multiple cell layers. Addition of EGF did not substantially alter levels of p27Kip1 or cyclin A, but did elevate the levels of cyclin D1. Such changes in cell cycle protein expression may contribute to elevated cell proliferation seen in reactive gliosis after injury to the adult CNS.
A stable cell line expressing the predominant brain glutamate transporter EAAT2 was used for the characterization of substrate exchange as a biochemical index for discriminating between substrate and non-substrate inhibitors of the cloned EAAT2 transporter. Addition of 1 mM unlabeled D-aspartate to cells equilibrated with [3H]D-aspartate produced a time-dependent depletion of the [3H] label retained by the cells. L-Aspartate, L-glutamate and L-cysteate produced an equivalent degree of [3H] exchange to that observed with D-aspartate, although the non-substrate EAAT2 inhibitor dihydrokainate and D-glutamate, which does not interact with the substrate binding site, failed to stimulate [3H]D-aspartate exchange. Estimation of EC50 values for the stimulation of [3H] exchange by D-aspartate, L-glutamate and L-trans-2,4-pyrollidine carboxylate (trans-PDC) produced values that were in excellent agreement with the corresponding IC50 values for the same compounds to inhibit EAAT2 uptake. Moreover, trans-PDC was found to produce a lower maximal exchange than that observed with D-aspartate, consistent with the known partial EAAT2 substrate activity of trans-PDC. The estimate of drug induced [3H] efflux with the cloned EAAT2 transporter represents a convenient biochemical assay for the discrimination of substrate and non-substrate inhibitors of the EAAT2 subtype.
The neural cell adhesion molecule L1 contains immunoglobulin-like (Ig) domains in its extracellular region that mediate homophilic binding, neurite outgrowth and other activities relevant to CNS development. To correlate conformations of these domains to biological function, several L1-Fc fusion proteins whose bioactivities were previously characterized were analyzed by rotary shadowing electron microscopy. We found that bioactive L1-Fcs containing Ig domains 1-4 or 1-6 exhibited extended, branched structures. In contrast, inactive L1-Fcs containing only the first two or three Ig domains assumed compact shapes that suggested interactions between the L1 arms of these proteins. Analysis of an untagged L1 fragment composed of Ig domains 1-3 demonstrated a mixture of monomeric and dimeric forms. Surprisingly, these dimers were stabilized by intermolecular disulfide bonds. Finally, cell surface L1-GFP fusion proteins containing only the first two or three Ig domains in the extracellular region also engaged in disulfide-mediated dimerization. These results suggest a novel mechanism by which mutations in L1 could interfere with its biological functioning.

The anticonvulsant drug vigabatrin has not been found to be detrimental to the recovery process when administered following focal cortical insult. This finding is in contrast to the negative postinjury consequences of other anticonvulsant drugs (e.g., phenobarbital and diazepam) with more direct activation of the GABA/benzodiazepine receptor complex. Moreover, phenobarbital directed against kindled seizures affects functional recovery more adversely than either the drug or subconvulsive seizures alone. The purpose of the present study was to determine whether vigabatrin (150, 200, and 250 mg/kg) directed against kindled seizures would impact recovery from lesion-induced somatosensory deficits. Vigabatrin was coupled with daily electrical kindling of the amygdala during the first week after a unilateral anteromedial cortex (AMC) lesion. Somatosensory recovery was assessed using bilateral tactile stimulation tests. Animals receiving the highest dose of vigabatrin prior to electrical kindling (250 mg/kg vigabatrin/kindled) remained significantly impaired even after two months of testing relative to vehicle/kindled, kindled/250 mg/kg vigabatrin, which received vigabatrin after electrical kindling, and the 150, 200, and 250 mg/kg vigabatrin/nonkindled groups (p &lt; 0.0001). In contrast, neither vigabatrin (at any of the doses tested) nor subconvulsive kindled seizures impacted the recovery process (p &gt; 0.05) when administered alone (i.e., without the drug + seizure interaction). These data add to the accumulating experimental and clinical evidence suggesting that the neurobehavioral consequences of the interaction between anticonvulsant drugs and subclinical seizures after brain insult are detrimental to functional recovery.
A principal mechanism of calcium-mediated neuronal injury is the activation of neutral proteases known as calpains. Proteolytic substrates for calpain include receptor and cytoskeletal proteins, signal transduction enzymes and transcription factors. Recently, calpain inhibitors have been shown to provide benefit in rat models of focal head injury and focal cerebral ischemia. The present study sought to investigate, in experiment 1, the time course of calpain-mediated cytoskeletal injury in a mouse model of diffuse head injury by measuring the 150- and 145-kDa alpha-spectrin breakdown products (SBDP). Secondly, in experiment 2, we examined the effect of early (20 min postinjury) administration of the novel calpain inhibitor SJA6017 on functional outcome measured 24 h following injury and its effect on posttraumatic alpha-spectrin degradation. Lastly, in experiment 3, we examined the effect of delayed (4 or 6 h postinjury) administration of SJA6017 on 24-h postinjury functional outcome. In experiment 1, isoflurane-anesthetized male CF-1 mice (18-22 g) were subjected to a 750 g-cm weight drop-induced injury and were sacrificed for SBDP analysis at postinjury times of 30 min, and 1, 2, 6, 24 and 48 h (plus sham). In experiments 2 and 3, mice were injured as described, and delivered a single tail vein injection of either SJA6017 (0.3, 1, or 3 mg/kg) or vehicle (administered immediately, 4 or 6 h postinjury [3 mg/kg]). Functional outcome was evaluated in both studies, and, in experiment 2, 24-h postinjury assessment of SBDPs was determined. Following injury, the level of SBDP 145 was significantly different from sham at 24 and 48 h in cortical and at 24 h in the hippocampal tissues and at 48 h in the striatum. Immediate postinjury administration of SJA6017 resulted in a dose-related improvement in 24-h functional outcome (p &lt; 0.05 at 3 mg/kg). Significance was maintained after a 4-h delay of the 3 mg/kg, but was lost after a 6-h delay. Despite improvement in functional outcome at 24 h, SJA6017 did not reduce spectrin breakdown in cortical or hippocampal tissues. These results support a role for calpain-mediated neuronal injury and the potential for a practical therapeutic window for calpain inhibition following traumatic brain injury. However, measurements of regional spectrin degradation may not be the most sensitive marker for determining the effects of calpain inhibition.
The detection of reactive oxygen species (ROS) after traumatic brain injury (TBI) is based on indirect methods due to the high reactivity and short half-life of ROS in biological tissue. The commonly used salicylate trapping method has several disadvantages making it unsuitable for human use. We have evaluated 4-hydroxybenzoic acid (4-HBA) together with microdialysis (MD) in the rat as an alternative method. 4-HBA forms one stable adduct, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA), when reacting with ROS and has not previously been used together with MD after TBI. Twenty-seven rats were used for the assessment of 3,4-DHBA production as an indicator of ROS formation in a controlled contusion injury model using intracerebral MD with 3 mM 4-HBA in the perfusate. For comparison, salicylate trapping was used in eight rats. TBI caused a 250% increase of 3,4-DHBA that peaked at 30 min after injury in severely injured rats and remained significantly elevated as compared to baseline for 90 min after trauma. The mild injury level caused a 100% increase in 3,4-DHBA formation at 30 min after the injury. When the MD probe was placed in the perimeter of the injury site, no significant increase in ROS formation occurred. Salicylate trapping showed a similar increase in adduct formation after severe injury. In addition, high cortical concentrations of 4-HBA and salicylate were found. It is concluded that microdialysis with 4-HBA as a trapping agent appears to be a useful method for ROS detection in the rat with a potential clinical utility.
Iron regulatory proteins (IRPs) are proteins involved in the regulation of intracellular iron homeostasis that bind to specific mRNA structures termed iron responsive elements (IREs). Because the target mRNAs for the IRPs are both cytosolic and membrane associated, we hypothesize that movement of IRPs between the cytosolic and the membrane associated subcellular fractions occurs in response to intracellular iron changes. We tested this hypothesis in a cell culture model, using mouse fibroblast cells (NIH 3T3) and macrophage cells (J774), and in a rat model of early iron deficiency and excess. This presented the first opportunity to examine IRP binding activity in rat brain during states of dietary iron deficiency and excess. Binding activity for IRPs was demonstrated in both membrane and cytosolic fractions in the cell lines and the rat brain homogenates. Although IRP binding activity is predominantly located in the cytosol (90%), there was increased IRP/IRE binding activity in both cytosolic and membrane fractions when the cells were treated with deferoxamine, and decreased binding activity after treatment with iron. In the rat study, brain cortex, hippocampus and striatum homogenates had more IRP binding activity in iron-deficient rats and less in iron-supplemented rats in a region- and time-specific manner. The intracellular distribution of IRPs also changed between the cytosolic and membrane fractions of the brain homogenates in conjunction with changes in iron. These in vivo studies are consistent with the cell culture analyses showing intracellular redistribution of IRPs as a function of iron status. The results of these experiments extend our understanding of cytoplasmic mRNA binding protein activity and raise questions regarding the mechanism by which mRNA binding proteins can locate their target mRNAs within cells. The elucidation of this mechanism will have a significant impact on our understanding of eukaryotic gene regulation.
Presynaptic, cocaine- and antidepressant-sensitive norepinephrine (NE) transporters (NETs) dictate levels of extracellular NE after vesicular release. Recent studies suggest that G protein-coupled receptors linked to protein kinase C (PKC) down-regulate cell surface NET protein levels and diminish NE uptake capacity. We identified distinct phosphatidylinositol 3-OH kinase (PI3K)-linked pathways supporting basal and insulin-triggered NE transport in the human noradrenergic neuroblastoma, SK-N-SH. Acute (0-60 min) insulin treatments produced a time- and concentration-dependent stimulation of NE transport, resolved in kinetic studies as an enhancement of NE transport capacity (Vmax) without an alteration in NE Km. Basal and insulin-modulated NET activities were reduced by the tyrosine kinase inhibitor genistein and the PI3K inhibitors wortmannin and LY-294002, but not by the PKC inhibitor staurosporine. PI3K activation was found to support phosphorylation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38 MAPK). However, basal and insulin-stimulated NET activities were differentiated by their reliance on p38 MAPK activation. Thus, the p38 MAPK inhibitor SB203580 and SB202190 abolished insulin activation of NE transport yet failed to impact basal NET activity. Moreover, p38 MAPK activation and insulin activation of NETs were found to be sensitive to external Ca2+ depletion, blockade of voltage-sensitive Ca2+ channels, and inhibition of protein phosphatase 2A. Effects of tyrosine kinase and PI3K inhibitors on basal NET uptake appear to arise from a loss of cell surface NET protein, whereas the p38 MAPK-dependent enhancement of NE transport occurs without a detectable enhancement of surface NET. Our findings establish two distinct pathways for regulation of NE uptake involving PI3K, one linked to transporter trafficking and a second linked to Ca2+-dependent, p38 MAPK phosphorylation that promotes activation of cell surface NETs.
1. The effects of external Cs(+) on magnocellular neurosecretory cells were studied during intracellular recordings from 93 supraoptic nucleus neurones in superfused explants of rat hypothalamus. 2. Bath application of 3-5 mM Cs(+) provoked reversible membrane depolarisation and increased firing rate in all of the neurones tested. Voltage-current analysis revealed an increase in membrane resistance between -120 and -55 mV. The increase in resistance was greater below -85 mV than at more positive potentials. 3. Voltage-clamp analysis showed that external Cs(+) blocked the hyperpolarisation-activated inward current, I(H). Under current clamp, application of ZD 7288, a selective blocker of I(H), caused an increase in membrane resistance at voltages &lt; or = -65 mV. Voltage-current analysis further revealed that blockade of I(H) caused hyperpolarisation when the initial voltage was &lt; -60 mV but had no effect at more positive values. 4. Current- and voltage-clamp analysis of the effects of Cs(+) in the presence of ZD 7288, or ZD 7288 and tetraethyl ammonium (TEA), revealed an increase in membrane resistance throughout the range of voltages tested (-120 to -45 mV). The current blocked by Cs(+) in the absence of I(H) was essentially voltage independent and reversed at -100 mV. The reversal potential shifted by +22.7 mV when external [K(+)] was increased from 3 to 9 mM. We conclude that, in addition to blocking I(H), external Cs(+) blocks a leakage K(+) current that contributes significantly to the resting potential of rat magnocellular neurosecretory cells.


The amygdala is involved in the normal facilitation of memory by emotion, but the separate contributions of the left and right amygdala to memory for verbal or nonverbal emotional material have not been investigated. Fourteen patients with damage to the medial temporal lobe including the amygdala (seven left, seven right), 18 brain-damaged, and 36 normal controls were exposed to emotional and neutral pictures accompanied by verbal narratives. Memory for both narratives and pictures was assessed with a free recall test 24 h later. Subjects with left amygdala damage failed to show the normally robust enhancement of memory for verbal and nonverbal emotional stimuli. The group with right amygdala damage showed the normal pattern of facilitation of memory by emotion for both verbal and nonverbal stimuli despite an overall reduction in memory performance. Furthermore, subjects with left amygdala damage were disproportionately impaired on memory for emotional narratives as compared with memory for emotional pictures. The latter finding offers partial support for a lateralized and material-specific pattern of the amygdala's contribution to emotional memory.
Based on its ability to provide quantitative information about tissue microstructure, diffusion tensor magnetic resonance imaging (DT-MRI) might be a valuable approach to improve the reliability of segmentation of the various brain tissues. In this study, a fully automated and easy-to-implement technique based on 2D histogram analysis of DT-MRI derived images was used to segment white and gray matter of the brain from 10 healthy subjects (aged = 27-56 years). The results obtained with this novel segmentation strategy were compared to those achieved by two experienced observers using an operator-dependent segmentation on the dual-echo scans. Visual inspection of the segmented tissues from a third senior observer disclosed that the automated technique worked properly on all images from all subjects and was more accurate than the human raters in defining thalamus white and gray matter portions as well as in tissue classification at the external brain edge. In addition, this segmentation technique resulted in an average gray/white matter ratio similar to that reported by post-mortem assessment. The application of the operator-dependent segmentation strategy was extremely time-consuming and the two observers achieved poorly reproducible results. Segmenting brain white and gray matter using information from DT-MRI proved to be an accurate approach with the potential for improving the understanding of the pathophysiology of many neurologic conditions.
The aim of this study was to adapt the balloon model for BOLD-based MR signal changes to a magnetic field strength of 3T and to examine its validity. The simultaneous measurement of BOLD and diffusion-weighted BOLD responses was performed. The amplitude of the BOLD peak was found to be similar for all subjects when a short visual stimulus of 6 sec was used. The rise-time to the BOLD peak and the shape and depth of the poststimulus undershoot varied significantly. A fit of the experimental BOLD responses was found to be possible by use of parameters within a reasonable physiological range. The relations between these parameters and their influence on the modeled BOLD responses is discussed. A prediction of the balloon model is the occurrence of a BOLD overshoot, i.e., a lag between the changes of the blood volume and the blood flow after the start of the stimulation. Experimental evidence for the existence of a BOLD overshoot is presented.
Behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD) occur in 50-90% of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). They cause premature institutionalization, increased costs of care and significant loss of quality-of-life for the patient and his/her family and caregivers. Non-pharmacological interventions are first-line in dealing with milder BPSD, while for moderate to severe BPSD, medication is clearly indicated in conjunction with non-pharmacological interventions. An imbalance of different neurotransmitters (acetylcholine, dopamine, noradrenaline, serotonin) has been proposed as the neurochemical correlate of BPSD. An involvement of some specific brain regions responsible for emotional activities (parahippocampal gyrus, dorsal raphe, locus coeruleus) and cortical hypometabolism have been suggested to contribute to BPSD. Atypical or novel antipsychotic drugs represent the reference drugs for treating BPSD. Among these, risperidone is considered as a drug of choice. Also, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are useful in the treatment of BPSD.
At present acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitors (AChEIs) represent the only reliable therapeutic resource for symptomatic treatment of Alzheimer Disease (AD). This study was designed to assess the effects of 6-12 month treatment with AChEIs donepezil and rivastigmine on cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) AChE and butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE) activity in AD patients. The pattern of AChE isoforms (G4, G1, G2) before and after treatment was investigated as well. In AD patients treated with donepezil a significant increase of CFS AChE activity was observed, whereas treatment with rivastigmine induced a significant decrease of AChE activity. Both drugs did not change BuChE activity and tended to restore the physiological pattern of AChE isoform. The possible significance of the influence of AChEIs on CSF AChE activity and isoforms is discussed.
This paper has reviewed the documentation on the clinical efficacy of choline alphoscerate, a cholinergic precursor, considered as a centrally acting parasympathomimetic drug in dementia disorders and in acute cerebrovascular disease. Thirteen published clinical trials, examining in total 4054 patients, have evaluated the use of choline alphoscerate in various forms of dementia disorders of degenerative, vascular or combined origin, such as senile dementia of the Alzheimer's type (SDAT) or vascular dementia (VaD) and in acute cerebrovascular diseases, such as transitory ischemic attack (TIA) and stroke. Analysis has assessed the design of each study, in particular with respect to experimental design, number of cases, duration of treatment and tests used to evaluate drug clinical efficacy. Most of the ten studies performed in dementia disorders were controlled trials versus a reference drug or placebo. Overall, 1570 patients were assessed in these studies, 854 of which in controlled trials. As detected by validated and appropriate tests, such as Mini Mental State Evaluation (MMSE) in SDAT and Sandoz Clinical Assessment Geriatric (SCAG) in VaD, administration of choline alphoscerate significantly improved patient clinical condition. Clinical results obtained with choline alphoscerate were superior or equivalent to those observed in control groups under active treatment and superior to the results observed in placebo groups. Analysis stresses the clear internal consistency of clinical data gathered by different experimental situations on the drug effect, especially with regard to the cognitive symptoms (memory, attention) characterising the clinical picture of adult-onset dementia disorders. The therapeutic usefulness of choline alphoscerate in relieving cognitive symptoms of chronic cerebral deterioration differentiates this drug from cholinergic precursors used in the past, such as choline and lecithin. Three uncontrolled trials were performed with choline alphoscerate in acute cerebrovascular stroke and TIA, totalling 2484 patients. The results of these trials suggest that this drug might favour functional recovery of patients with cerebral stroke and should be confirmed in future investigations aimed at establish the efficacy of the drug in achieving functional recovery of patients with acute cerebrovascular disease.
Inflammation has been involved in the pathogenesis of dementia. The study evaluates the presence and the source of pro- and anti- inflammatory cytokines in the blood of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), multi-infarct dementia (MID) or in non-demented elderly people (controls). Tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, interleukin (IL)-1beta, IL-6, IL-10, IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1Ra) and soluble TNF receptor I (sTNF-RI) plasma concentrations and release from blood cells stimulated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS, 1 microg/ml) were determined. The results show that TNF-alpha released from blood cells is significantly decreased (27%) in all demented patients compared to controls. Circulating TNF-alpha is increased (400%) only in MID patients. In these patients plasma levels of sTNF-RI are increased (53%) and IL-10 from stimulated blood cells decreased (47%) compared to non-demented subjects. The results show that: (1) peripheral production of TNF-alpha is blunted in demented (both AD and MID) patients compared to non-demented age-matched subjects; (2) AD patients have a selective disregulation of the peripheral TNF-alpha system; (3) different cytokines are up- or down- regulated in MID patients showing that in this condition the pro- and anti-inflammatory peripheral cytokine system is more widely affected.
The cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) levels of two cytoskeleton proteins, tau and the light subunit of neurofilament protein (NFL), both considered to reflect cerebral white-matter components, were investigated in a group of patients with a subtype of vascular dementia called 'subcortical white-matter dementia' (SWD). The group consisted of 25 demented patients with frontosubcortical brain syndromes, white-matter changes on computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging and vascular disease or pronounced vascular risk factors. CSF-NFL was increased, whereas CSF-tau was normal, suggesting a differential involvement of the cytoskeleton in this patient group. The albumin ratio and the apolipoproteinE4 (ApoE4) allele status were also investigated. The albumin ratio was increased, indicating damage to the vessel walls with breakdown of the blood-brain barrier. No relationship was found between ApoE4 alleles and CSF levels of tau or NFL in this patient group. Besides presenting original data, the disease status of SWD is also discussed.
The aim of this study was to investigate two putative pathophysiological aspects of the common neurodegenerative disorder frontotemporal dementia (FTD). To this end, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) levels of tau (total tau) and the light subtype of the neurofilament proteins (NFL) were studied in patients with FTD (n=16) and in age-matched controls (n=16). In addition, serum was analysed for IgG and IgM antibodies to the most common gangliosides and sulfatide in FTD patients (n=13) and in age-matched controls (n=20). The CSF-NFL levels were increased in FTD (1606+/-1151 pg/ml, mean+/-S.D.; P&lt;0.001) compared with controls (308+/-203 pg/ml), whereas the CSF-tau levels were normal. In serum, autoantibody IgG-GA1 was significantly increased in FTD (P&lt;0.05) compared with controls. No correlations were found between the effect parameters and demographic variables in any group. The results of this study suggest that cytoskeleton proteins other than tau are also involved in the pathophysiology of FTD and that autoimmunity may be part of the pathophysiological processes in FTD, as it is believed to be in Alzheimer's disease.
Coronary artery disease is the number one cause of adult mortality due to a medical illness in the United States. Exciting new studies are looking at the role transient ischemia may play in preconditioning the myocardium to reduce the degree of infarction following a sustained ischemic insult. In this speculative review, we surmise ischemic preconditioning and the resulting protection afforded by it in response to abnormal insults arises from an already existing physiological process that may be associated with exercise. A brief ischemic episode mimics the cells response to normal dips in ATP levels caused by metabolic demand. In so doing, via constitutive nitric oxide synthase derived nitric oxide, it temporarily down regulates a cells excitatory state, thus protecting it from the next insult. Within this context, opiate and opioid actions can be incorporated into the protection scenario, as can other signal molecules since they may release nitric oxide. Instead of ischemia inducing nitric oxide release via a drop of ATP levels, various signal molecules, such as opiate alkaloids, have their cell surface receptors coupled to constitutive nitric oxide synthase thereby releasing nitric oxide, initiating associated cell activity dampening action. In conclusion, it appears as though endogenous nitric oxide stimulators offer their selective preconditioning protection by joining an already existing process that limits activation following normal physical exertion.


alpha1-syntrophin is a PDZ-containing dystrophin-associated protein, expressed predominantly in striated muscle and brain. alpha1-syntrophin null mice generated by gene targeting technique showed no overt muscular dystrophic phenotype. Though other dystrophin-associated proteins were localized at the sarcolemma, neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) was selectively lost from the membrane fraction but remained in the cytoplasm. Thus, the alpha1-syntrophin null mice are useful in the elucidation of the functional importance of nNOS targeting at the sarcolemma. In addition, the mice would facilitate identification of other signaling molecules, which are targeted to dystrophin complex via interaction with alpha1-syntrophin.
This review describes the recent developments in the field of polyamine toxins, with focus on structure activity relationship investigations, including studies of importance of the polyamine moiety for biological activity, photolabeling studies using polyamine toxins as templates, as well as use of solid phase methods for the synthesis of polyamine toxins. The review is mainly concerned with effects of polyamine toxins on nicotinic acetylcholine receptors and ionotropic glutamate receptors.
Cellular junctions are critical for intercellular communication and for the assembly of cells into tissues. Cell junctions often consist of tight junctions, which form a permeability barrier and prevent the diffusion of lipids and proteins between cell compartments, and adherens junctions, which control the adhesion of cells and link cortical actin filaments to attachment sites on the plasma membrane. Proper tight junction formation and cell polarity require the function of membrane-associated guanylate kinases (MAGUKs) that contain the PDZ protein-protein interaction domain. In contrast, less is known about how adherens junctions are assembled. Here we describe how the PDZ-containing protein DLG-1 is required for the proper formation and function of adherens junctions in Caenorhabditis elegans. DLG-1 is a MAGUK protein that is most similar in sequence to mammalian SAP97, which is found at both synapses of the CNS, as well as at cell junctions of epithelia. DLG-1 is localized to adherens junctions, and DLG-1 localization is mediated by an amino-terminal domain shared with SAP97 but not found in other MAGUK family members. DLG-1 recruits other proteins and signaling molecules to adherens junctions, while embryos that lack DLG-1 fail to recruit the proteins AJM-1 and CPI-1 to adherens junctions. DLG-1 is required for the proper organization of the actin cytoskeleton and for the morphological elongation of embryos. In contrast to other proteins that have been observed to affect adherens junction assembly and function, DLG-1 is not required to maintain cell polarity. Our results suggest a new function for MAGUK proteins distinct from their role in cell polarity.
Oscillations of the period (per) and timeless (tim) gene products are an integral part of the feedback loop that underlies circadian behavioral rhythms in Drosophila melanogaster. Resetting this loop in response to light requires the putative circadian photoreceptor cryptochrome (CRY). We dissected the early events in photic resetting by determining the mechanisms underlying the CRY response to light and by investigating the relationship between CRY and the light-induced ubiquitination of the TIM protein. In response to light, CRY is degraded by the proteasome through a mechanism that requires electron transport. Various CRY mutant proteins are not degraded, and this suggests that an intramolecular conversion is required for this light response. Light-induced TIM ubiquitination precedes CRY degradation and is increased when electron transport is blocked. Thus, inhibition of electron transport may &quot;lock&quot; CRY in an active state by preventing signaling required either to degrade CRY or to convert it to an inactive form. High levels of CRY block TIM ubiquitination, suggesting a mechanism by which light-driven changes in CRY could control TIM ubiquitination.
Fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2) controls in part the timely differentiation of oligodendrocytes into the myelin-producing cells of the CNS. However, although differentiated oligodendrocytes express FGF receptors (R), the effect of FGF-2 on myelin-producing oligodendrocytes in vivo was unknown. In the present study, we show that delivery of FGF-2 into the cerebrospinal fluid of anaesthetized rat pups, aged postnatal day (P) 6 to 9, induced a severe loss of myelin in the caudal anterior medullary velum (AMV). Furthermore, we show that the caudal AMV was myelinated at the time of treatment, so the effects of FGF-2 represent a loss of myelin and not delayed differentiation. This was confirmed by injection of platelet-derived growth factor-AA (PDGF-AA), a factor known to affect the differentiation of PDGF-alphaR expressing oligodendrocyte progenitors, but which did not induce myelin loss in the caudal AMV and did not affect differentiated oligodendrocytes, which do not express PDGF-alphaR. Compared to controls treated with saline or PDGF-AA, FGF-2 induced an accumulation of PLP protein and MBP mRNA within the somata of myelin-producing oligodendrocytes. The results indicate that FGF receptor signalling disrupts myelin production in differentiated oligodendrocytes in vivo and interrupted the transport of myelin-related gene products from the oligodendrocyte cell body to their myelin sheaths.
The aim of this study was to determine whether extracellular dopamine (DA) in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) might originate other than from DA neurons, also from noradrenergic (NA) ones. To this aim, we compared the levels of DA and NA in the dialysates from the PFC, a cortical area innervated by NA and DA neurons, and cortices that receive NA but minor or no DA projections such as the primary motor, the occipital-retrosplenial, and the cerebellar cortex. Moreover, the effect of alpha(2)-ligands and D(2)-ligands that distinctly modify NA and DA neuronal activity on extracellular NA and DA in these areas was studied. Extracellular NA concentrations were found to be similar in the different cortices, as expected from the homogeneous NA innervation, however, unexpectedly, also DA concentrations in the PFC were not significantly different from those in the other cortices. The alpha(2)-adrenoceptor agonist clonidine, intraperitoneally (i.p.) injected or locally perfused into the PFC, reduced not only extracellular NA levels, as expected from its ability to inhibit NA neuron activity, but also markedly reduced extracellular DA levels. Conversely, the alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antagonist idazoxan, i.p. injected or locally perfused into the PFC, not only increased extracellular NA levels, in line with its ability to activate NA neuron activity, but also increased those of DA. Conversely, in contrast to its ability to inhibit DA neuronal activity, the D(2) receptor agonist quinpirole only modestly and transiently reduced extracellular DA levels, while gamma-butyrolactone failed to modify DA levels in the PFC; conversely, haloperidol, at variance from its ability to activate DA neurons, failed to significantly modify extracellular DA levels in the PFC. Both haloperidol and quinpirole were totally ineffective after local perfusion into the PFC. Systemically injected or locally perfused, clonidine and idazoxan also modified both DA and NA concentrations in dialysates from primary motor, occipital-retrosplenial and cerebellar cortices as observed in the PFC. Finally, i.p. injected or locally perfused, clonidine reduced and idazoxan increased extracellular NA levels in the caudate nucleus, but neither alpha(2)-ligand significantly modified extracellular DA levels. Our results suggest that extracellular DA in the PFC, as well as in the other cortices, may depend on NA rather than DA innervation and activity. They suggest that dialysate DA reflects the amine released from NA neurons as well, where DA acts not only as NA precursor but also as co-transmitter. The co-release of NA and DA seems to be controlled by alpha(2)-receptors located on NA nerve terminals.

This open study assessed the ability of rivastigmine to treat the neuropsychiatric complications of advanced Parkinson's disease. In a group of 12 patients, hallucinations, sleep disturbance, and carer distress were all improved and cognitive performance significantly enhanced by the drug.
The objective of this work was to determine the predictors of depressive symptoms among spouse caregivers of Parkinson's disease (PD) patients. Little is known about the strain in giving care to PD patients and how the motor, cognitive, and behavioral complications of PD contribute to depression among spouse caregivers. Forty-five consecutive PD patients and their spouse caregivers agreed to be evaluated after a routine clinic visit. Patient demographic data and the presence of hallucinations, delusions, incontinence, and sleep disturbances were obtained. The patients were assessed using the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS-motor section), Hoehn and Yahr (H&amp;Y) staging, and the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE). Depressive symptoms were assessed using the 17-item Hamilton Depression Scale (HAMD-17) and the Beck Depression Inventory-II (BDI-II) on patients and spouses. Thirty men and 15 women had a mean age of 71.5 years (range 53-85), average PD duration of 10 years (range 1-26), a mean &quot;on&quot; H&amp;Y stage of 2.8 and an MMSE mean score of 26 (range 13-30). There was good correlation between the HAMD-17 and the BDI-II scores in both patients (r = 0.69, P = 0.001) and spouses (r = 0.66, P &lt; 0.001). A moderate correlation was noted between the spouse HAMD-17 score and the patient UPDRS-motor score (r = 0.34; P = 0.02), the age of PD onset (r = 0.33; P = 0.02) and patient HAMD-17 scores (r= 0.29; P = 0.05). A stronger correlation was noted between spouse HAMD-17 scores and the years of PD duration (r= 0.43; P = 0.003). There was a significant difference in the mean spouse HAMD-17 scores among PD patients with sleep disturbances versus those who did not (10.2 vs. 6.4; P = 0.04). However, on stepwise regression analysis, only the duration of PD remained significant (adjusted r = 0.17; P = 0.003). No difference was noted with hallucinations, delusions or incontinence. We concluded that the duration of PD appears to be the strongest predictor of depressive symptoms among spouse-caregivers in this small cohort.
Fatigue affects about 50% of Parkinson's disease (PD) patients and is frequently one of its most disabling aspects. It does not correlate with disease severity or duration but does correlate with depression. Fatigue and depression are distinct symptoms and fatigue often fails to respond to antidepressants. The natural history of fatigue in PD is unknown, as no longitudinal studies have been published. This report describes the follow-up of subjects from our original study performed 9 years ago. Fatigue was a persistent problem for our subjects.
The medical records of 493 patients with restless legs syndrome (RLS) from three major centers were studied to determine the number and outcome of patients who had been treated with opioids as a monotherapy. At one time or another 113 patients (51 men, 62 women; age range, 37-88 years) had been on opioid therapy either alone (36 patients) or with opioids added secondarily to other medications used to treat RLS (77 patients). Twenty-three of the 36 opioid monotherapy patients had failed dopaminergic and other therapeutic agents prior to the initiation of opioid monotherapy. Twenty of the 36 opioid monotherapy patients continue on monotherapy for an average of 5 years 11 months (range, 1-23 years), despite their knowledge of the availability of other therapies. Of the 16 patients who discontinued opioids as a sole therapy, the medication was discontinued in only one case because of problems related to addiction and tolerance. Polysomnography on seven patients performed after an average of 7 years 1 month of opioid monotherapy (range, 1-15 years) showed a tendency toward an improvement in all leg parameters and associated arousals (decrease in PLMS index, PLMS arousal index, and PLM while awake index) as well as all sleep parameters (increase in stages 3 and 4 and REM sleep, total sleep time, sleep efficiency, and decrease in sleep latency). Two of these seven patients developed sleep apnea and a third patient had worsening of preexisting apnea. Opioids seem to have long-term effectiveness in the treatment of RLS and PLMS, but patients on long-term opioid therapy should be clinically or polysomnographically monitored periodically for the development of sleep apnea.
In systemic lupus erythematosus, antibodies against double-stranded DNA are a major contributor to renal disease. We have previously demonstrated that the pentapeptide Asp/Glu-Trp-Asp/Glu-Tyr-Ser/Gly is a molecular mimic of double-stranded DNA. This sequence is also present in the extracellular domain of murine and human NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) receptor subunits NR2a and NR2b. Here we show that the NR2 receptor is recognized by both murine and human anti-DNA antibodies. Moreover, anti-DNA antibodies with this cross-reactivity mediate apoptotic death of neurons in vivo and in vitro. Finally, we show that the cerebrospinal fluid of a patient with systemic lupus erythematosus contains these antibodies and also mediates neuronal death via an apoptotic pathway. These observations indicate that lupus antibodies cross-react with DNA and NMDA receptors, gain access to cerebrospinal fluid and may mediate non-thrombotic and non-vasculitic abnormalities of the central nervous system.

A distinct feature of the nervous system is the intricate network of synaptic connections among neurons of diverse phenotypes. Although initial connections are formed largely through molecular mechanisms that depend on intrinsic developmental programs, spontaneous and experience-driven electrical activities in the developing brain exert critical epigenetic influence on synaptic maturation and refinement of neural circuits. Selective findings discussed here illustrate some of our current understanding of the effects of electrical activity on circuit development and highlight areas that await further study.
To reach their proper targets, axons rely upon the actions of highly conserved families of attractive and repulsive guidance molecules, including the netrins, Slits, semaphorins and ephrins. These guidance systems are used to generate an astonishingly varied set of neuronal circuits. Here we consider the mechanisms by which a few guidance systems can be used to generate diverse outcomes. Recent studies have revealed extensive transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulation of guidance cues and their receptors, as well as combinatorial mechanisms that integrate information from different families of guidance cues.

This study demonstrates that the adult form of 'tonotopic maps' of sound frequency in the rat primary auditory cortex (A1) arises from parallel developmental processes involving two cortical zones: the progressive differentiation and refinement of selectively tone-responsive receptive fields within an initially broadly-tuned posterior zone, and the progressive loss of tone-evoked, short-latency response over an initially large, very broadly tuned anterior zone. The formation of tonotopic maps in A1 was specifically influenced by a rat pup's early acoustic environments. Exposure to pulsed tones resulted in accelerated emergence and an expansion of A1 representations of those specific tone frequencies, as well as a deteriorated tonotopicity and broader-than-normal receptive fields. Thus, auditory experiences during early postnatal development are important in shaping the functional development of auditory cortical representations of specific acoustic environments.
Activation of group 1 metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) stimulates dendritic protein synthesis and long-term synaptic depression (LTD), but it remains unclear how these effects are related. Here we provide evidence that a consequence of mGluR activation in the hippocampus is the rapid loss of both AMPA and NMDA receptors from synapses. Like mGluR-LTD, the stable expression of this change requires protein synthesis. These data suggest that expression of mGluR-LTD is at least partly postsynaptic, and that a functional consequence of dendritic protein synthesis is the regulation of glutamate receptor trafficking.
Two zebrafish motoneurons, CaP and VaP, are initially developmentally equivalent; later, CaP innervates ventral muscle, whereas VaP dies. Current models suggest that vertebrate motoneuron death results from failure to compete for limited, target-derived trophic support. In contrast, we provide evidence that zebrafish ventral muscle can support both CaP and VaP survival. However, VaP's growth cone is prevented from extending into ventral muscle by CaP-dependent interactions with identified muscle fibers, the muscle pioneers; this interaction breaks the initial equivalence of CaP and VaP. Thus, the processes mediating VaP death are more complex than failure to compete for trophic support, and may be important for correct spatial patterning.
Medial temporal lobe (MTL) lesions typically produce retrograde amnesia characterized by the disproportionate loss of recently acquired memories. Temporally graded memory loss is interpreted traditionally as evidence for a consolidation process guided by the MTL. Here, using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we show temporally graded changes in MTL activity in healthy older adults taking a famous faces remote memory test. Evidence for temporally graded change in the hippocampal formation was mixed, suggesting it may participate only in consolidation processes lasting a few years. Entorhinal cortex was associated with temporally graded changes extending up to 20 years. These findings support the basic tenets of consolidation theory and suggest that the entorhinal cortex, rather than the hippocampal formation, participates in memory consolidation over decades.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) prevents lesion-induced death of midbrain dopaminergic neurons, but its function in normal brain remains uncertain. Here we show that GDNF acutely and reversibly potentiated the excitability of cultured midbrain neurons by inhibiting transient A-type K(+) channels. The effects of GDNF were limited to large, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive dopaminergic neurons, and were mediated by mitogen associated protein (MAP) kinase. Application of GDNF also elicited a MAP kinase-dependent enhancement of the excitability in dopaminergic neurons in midbrain slice. These results demonstrate an acute regulation of GDNF on ion channels and its underlying signaling mechanism, and reveal an unexpected role of GDNF in normal midbrain dopaminergic neurons.
The discovery of stem cells that can generate neural tissue has raised new possibilities for repairing the nervous system. A rush of papers proclaiming adult stem cell plasticity has fostered the notion that there is essentially one stem cell type that, with the right impetus, can create whatever progeny our heart, liver or other vital organ desires. But studies aimed at understanding the role of stem cells during development have led to a different view - that stem cells are restricted regionally and temporally, and thus not all stem cells are equivalent. Can these views be reconciled?
The role of inflammatory processes in the brains of Alzheimer's Disease (AD) patients has recently attracted considerable interest. Indeed, the only demonstrated effective therapy for AD patients is long-term treatment with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). The mechanistic basis of the efficacy of NSAIDs in AD remains unclear. However, the recent recognition that NSAIDs can bind to and activate the nuclear receptor peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma), has offered an explanation for the action of these drugs in AD. PPARgamma activation leads to the inhibition of microglial activation and the expression of a broad range of proinflammatory molecules. The newly appreciated anti-inflammatory actions of PPARgamma agonists may allow novel therapies for AD and other CNS indications with an inflammatory component.
In recent years, increasing attention has been focused on chemokines as inflammatory mediators in the CNS. The limited number of studies that have investigated chemokine and chemokine receptor expression in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain and in cell culture models seem to support a role for inflammation in AD pathogenesis. Here we provide a review of these studies, but in addition, point out the possible role of chemokines as communication molecules between neurons and microglia. Understanding neuron-microglia interactions is essential for understanding AD pathogenesis, and disturbances in chemokine-mediated intercellular communication may contribute toward a generalized impairment of microglial cell function.
A common feature of Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology is the abundance of reactive astrocytes and activated microglia in close proximity to neuritic plaques containing amyloid-beta protein (Abeta). The relationship between glial activation and neurodegeneration remains unclear, although several cytokines and inflammatory mediators produced by activated glia have the potential to initiate or exacerbate the progression of neuropathology. Assuming that glial activation plays a central role in the development and progression of AD, a prominent feature is to understand which stimuli drive this activation in senile plaques and to define their effects in vitro. There is a growing body of evidence to suggest that deposition of Abeta and expression of its associated molecules represent important trigger factors in glial activation leading to an inflammatory reaction in the brain. Thus, unraveling the mechanisms by which these proteins exert their effect on glial cells may provide significant insight into the pathophysiology of AD, and may lead to the identification of new strategies for AD treatment.
It is well established that the hippocampal formation is critically involved in the acquisition of trace memories, a paradigm in which the conditioned (CS) and unconditioned stimuli (US) are separated by a temporal gap (Solomon et al., 1986). The structure is reportedly not critical for the acquisition of delay memories, where the CS and the US overlap in time (Berger &amp; Orr, 1983; Schmaltz &amp; Theios, 1972). Based on these results, it is often stated that the hippocampus is involved in &quot;filling the gap&quot; or otherwise associating the two stimuli in time. However, in addition to the presence of a temporal gap, there are other differences between trace and delay conditioning. The most apparent difference is that animals require many more trials to learn the trace task, and thus it is inherently more difficult than the delay task. Here, we tested whether the hippocampus was critically involved in delay conditioning, if it was rendered more difficult such that the rate of acquisition was shifted to be analogous to trace conditioning. Groups of rats received excitotoxic lesions to the hippocampus, sham lesions or were left intact. Using the same interstimulus intervals (ISI), control animals required more trials to acquire the trace than the delay task. As predicted, animals with hippocampal lesions were impaired during trace conditioning but not delay conditioning. However, when the delay task was rendered more difficult by extending the ISI (a long delay task), animals with hippocampal lesions were impaired. In addition, once the lesioned animal learned the association between the CS and the US during delay conditioning, it could learn and perform the trace CR. Thus, the role of the hippocampus in classical conditioning is not limited to learning about discontiguous events in time and space; rather the structure can become engaged simply as a function of task difficulty.
The amygdala is critically involved in discriminative avoidance learning. Large lesions of the amygdala block discriminative avoidance learning and abolish cingulothalamic training-induced neuronal activity. These results indicated that amygdalar processing is critical for cingulothalamic plasticity. The larger lesions did not allow differentiation of the specific functioning of various amygdalar nuclei. Anatomical analysis showed that damage in the central (CE) nucleus of the amygdala was correlated with the severity of the behavioral deficit. The present study was carried out to determine whether smaller lesions, centered in the CE nucleus, would impair discriminative avoidance learning and block cingulothalamic plasticity. In addition, the possible role of the CE nucleus in appetitively motivated discriminative approach learning was examined for the first time. New Zealand White rabbits with CE nuclear lesions were first trained in the discriminative approach task. After attaining asymptotic performance, discriminative avoidance training sessions were alternated with continuing approach training sessions, one session each day. The rabbits with lesions were severely impaired in avoidance learning but showed no impairment of approach learning. Surprisingly, the attenuating effects of the lesions on cingulothalamic training-induced neuronal activity were more prevalent during approach learning than during avoidance learning. These results indicated that avoidance learning can be impaired by lesions centered in the CE nucleus that leave cingulothalamic plasticity largely intact and that the CE nucleus is involved in extra-cingulothalamic learning processes.
The authors evaluate a mapping of Rescorla and Wagner's (1972) behavioral model of classical conditioning onto the cerebellar substrates for motor reflex learning and illustrate how the limitations of the Rescorla-Wagner model are just as useful as its successes for guiding the development of new psychobiological theories of learning. They postulate that the inhibitory pathway that returns conditioned response information from the cerebellar interpositus nucleus back to the inferior olive is the neural basis for the error correction learning proposed by Rescorla and Wagner (Gluck, Myers, &amp; Thompson, 1994; Thompson, 1986). The authors' cerebellar model expects that behavioral processes described by the Rescorla-Wagner model will be localized within the cerebellum and related brain stem structures, whereas behavioral processes beyond the scope of the Rescorla-Wagner model will depend on extracerebellar structures such as the hippocampus and related cortical regions. Simulations presented here support both implications. Several novel implications of the authors' cerebellar error-correcting model are described including a recent empirical study by Kim, Krupa, and Thompson (1998), who verified that suppressing the putative error correction pathway should interfere with the Kamin (1969) blocking effect, a behavioral manifestation of error correction learning. The authors also discuss the model's implications for understanding the limits of cerebellar contributions to associative learning and how this informs our understanding of hippocampal function in conditioning. This leads to a more integrative view of the neural substrates of conditioning in which the authors' real-time circuit-level model of the cerebellum can be viewed as a generalization of the long-term memory module of Gluck and Myers' (1993) trial-level theory of cerebellar-hippocampal interaction in motor conditioning.
Studies are reviewed that support a hypothesized role for hippocampal theta oscillations in the neural plasticity underlying behavioral learning. Begun in Richard F. Thompson's laboratory in the 1970s, these experiments have documented a relationship between free-running 3- to 7-Hz hippocampal slow waves (theta) and rates of acquisition in rabbit classical nictitating membrane (NM) conditioning. Lesion and drug manipulations of septohippocampal projections have affected NM and jaw movement conditioning in ways consistent with a theta-related brain state being an important modulator of behavioral acquisition. These findings provide essential empirical support for the recently developed neurobiological and computational models that posit an important role for rhythmic oscillations (such as theta) in cellular plasticity and behavioral learning.

Considerable evidence indicates an important role for amygdaloid nuclei in both the acquisition and expression of Pavlovian fear conditioning. Recent reports from my laboratory have focused on the impact of neurotoxic lesions of the basolateral complex of the amygdala (BLA) on conditional freezing behavior in rats. In these studies, I have observed severe effects of posttraining BLA lesions on the expression of conditional freezing even after extensive presurgical overtraining (25-75 trials). Moreover, I have found no evidence for sparing of fear memory (i.e., savings) in these rats when I assess their rate of reacquisition relative to BLA rats receiving minimal training (1 trial). In these experiments, freezing behavior was assessed using a conventional time-sampling procedure and expressed as a response probability. Although this measure is well established in the literature, it is conceivable that it is not sensitive to spared memory in rats with BLA lesions. To address this issue, I present a more detailed analysis of freezing behavior that quantifies latency to freeze, the number of freezing bouts, the duration of freezing bouts, and the probability distribution of bout lengths. I also include control data from untrained (no-shock) rats. Consistent with my earlier reports, I find no evidence of savings of fear memory in rats with neurotoxic BLA lesions using several measures of freezing behavior. These results reiterate the conclusion that fear memory, as it is expressed in freezing behavior, requires neurons in the BLA.
An understanding of synaptic plasticity in the mammalian brain has been one of R. F. Thompson's major pursuits throughout his illustrious career. A current series of experiments of significant interest to R. F. Thompson is an examination of the interactions between sex hormones, synaptic plasticity, aging, and stress. This research is contained within a broader project whose aim is to investigate animal models that evaluate estrogen interactions with Alzheimer's disease. This paper reviews the recent results that have led to a better understanding of how the sex hormone estrogen influences synaptic plasticity in an important structure within the mammalian brain responsible for learning and memory: the hippocampus. In this review, a number of experiments have been highlighted that investigate the molecular mechanisms that underlie estrogen's effect on two specific forms of synaptic plasticity commonly studied in neurophysiology and the behavioral neurosciences: long-term potentiation and long-term depression.


Amyloid deposition within the brains of Alzheimer's Disease patients results in the activation of microglial cells and the induction of a local inflammatory response. The interaction of microglia or monocytes with beta-amyloid (A beta) fibrils elicits the activation a complex tyrosine kinase-based signal transduction cascade leading to stimulation of multiple independent signaling pathways and ultimately to changes in proinflammatory gene expression. The A beta-stimulated expression of proinflammatory genes in myeloid lineage cells is antagonized by the action of a family of ligand-activated nuclear hormone receptors, the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs). We report that THP-1 monocytes express predominantly PPAR gamma isoform and lower levels of PPAR alpha and PPAR delta isoforms. PPAR mRNA levels are not affected by differentiation of the cells into a macrophage phenotype, nor are they altered following exposure to the classical immune stimulus, lipopolysaccharide. Previous studies have found that PPAR gamma agonists act broadly to inhibit inflammatory responses. The present study explored the action of the PPAR alpha isoform and found that PPAR alpha agonists inhibited the A beta-stimulated expression of TNFalpha and IL-6 reporter genes in a dose-dependent manner. Moreover, the PPAR alpha agonist WY14643 inhibited macrophage differentiation and COX-2 gene expression. However, the PPAR alpha agonists failed to inhibit A beta-stimulated elaboration of neurotoxic factors by THP-1 cells. These findings demonstrate that PPAR alpha acts to suppress a diverse array of inflammatory responses in monocytes.
Recent studies have implicated pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines as integral to Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis. Among them, transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) is emerging as an important factor in regulating inflammatory responses. This multifunctional cytokine might be centrally involved in several aspects of AD pathogenesis by regulating beta-amyloid precursor protein synthesis and processing, plaque formation, astroglial and microglial response and neuronal cell death. Among all of these potential roles, studies in transgenic and infusion animal models have shown that TGF-beta may primarily contribute to AD pathogenesis by influencing A beta production and deposition, which in turn might result in damage to the brain microvasculature. The lessons learned from these models are of great interest not only for understanding of the role of TGF-beta in AD, but also for future treatments where testing of anti-inflammatory agents such as ibuprofen and an amyloid vaccine hold great promise. In this regard, further elucidation of the signal pathways by which TGF-beta exerts its effect in AD might lead to specific targets for further therapeutic intervention.
In the present study, we examined the long-term effect of oxidative stress induced neurodegeneration on sterol concentrations in striatum and serum of Wistar and Lewis rats. Three weeks after treatment with 3-nitropropionic acid, no differences in 24S-hydroxycholesterol concentrations were observed in striatal homogenates and serum. Ratios of striatal campesterol to cholesterol were higher after 3-nitropropionic acid treatment as compared to controls of both rat strains suggesting an increased passage of this exogenous plant sterol across the blood-brain-barrier. Ratios of lathosterol to cholesterol in serum and striatum were lower in treated rats as compared with controls of both rat strains. Absolute concentrations of serum and striatal cholesterol precursors and plant sterols differed between the controls of both rat strains. It was concluded that the changes observed in sterol concentrations in the striatum and serum indicate that cholesterol homeostasis may be affected during neurodegenerative processes associated with blood-brain-barrier damage.
The neurosurgical suite of the future will continue to incorporate developing technologies so that lesion localization, surgical dissection, electrode placement, and cell/drug delivery will be optimized. In this article it was shown that MR technology can be placed into a neurosurgical operating room and used as a surgical adjunct in such a way that surgical, anesthetic, and nursing techniques are not [figure: see text] compromised. Essential to the success was the high magnetic field strength and system mobility. It is now hypothesized that MR technology, coupled to advances in molecular therapies, endovascular techniques, and transplantation, will continue to improve neurosurgical outcome not only for benign pathology but also malignant neoplastic and degenerative CNS disorders. Although these technologies are intriguing and ultimately will improve neurosurgical outcome, it is likely that for the foreseeable future, neurosurgery will continue to require sound clinical judgment and surgical dexterity.
Despite continued advances in prevention and treatment, stroke remains the leading cause of neurologic disability. This article reviews the broad spectrum of palliative efforts underway to treat the impairment and disability that results from stroke. Emphasis is placed on the importance of symptom control, increasing compensation, and enhancing residual and recovering function in patients with stroke. New approaches to impairment reduction have produced encouraging results, but disability reduction remains the cornerstone of care.
Multiple sclerosis can usually be diagnosed from a patient's history, clinical examination, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis, and observations from magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). However, sometimes, the classic clinical criteria, even when supported by MRI findings or by abnormalities of the CSF, may not be sufficiently specific. Many conditions can produce a multifocal central nervous system syndrome with a relapsing-remitting course in young adults. The rate of misdiagnosis is around 5%, indicating that 1 in 20 patients thought to have MS have instead a condition resembling MS. The need to reach diagnostic certainty is particularly important given the availability of treatments which may potentially prevent the progression of the disease. Therefore, the search for new methodological approaches which increase the sensitivity and specificity of the diagnosis is warranted. While waiting for the development of new techniques to facilitate an early and correct diagnosis, a correct approach to a suspect MS patient has to be underlined in order to reduce the risk of a misdiagnosis. In this paper, I illustrate the diagnostic work-up that the practicing physician should follow when first confronted by a patient suspected of having MS.
Alternative causes of optic neuritis (ON), other than primary demyelination or non-demyelinating optic neuropathies which can mimic acute ON, should be rigorously considered if a patient with presumed ON does not follow the typical clinical course or has a normally appearing brain on magnetic resonance imaging. A thorough differential diagnosis includes viral and bacterial optic neuropathies, ischemic optic neuropathies, Devic's neuromyelitis optica, compressive or infiltrative optic neuropathies, Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy and toxic and deficiency optic neuropathies. All patients should undergo a complete neuroophthalmological examination to help exclude other diseases mimicking ON. Atypical clinical cases of optic neuropathy require further specific laboratory, neurophysiological and imaging tests to make a correct and early diagnosis.
This review summarizes the main contributions given by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to predict disease evolution in patients at presentation with clinically isolated syndromes (CIS) suggestive of multiple sclerosis (MS). In these patients, the extent of lesions on T2-weighted scans of the brain is a robust predictor of the subsequent development of clinically definite MS (CDMS), moderate to severe disability and new MRI lesions. The risk of developing CDMS in patients with CIS is further increased when some of these lesions are enhancing or when additional lesions are seen on T2-weighted scans of the spinal cord. Recent studies using new MRI techniques have shown that irreversible tissue disruption is an early event in the course of MS and that subtle normal-appearing white matter changes occur in patients with CIS and are associated with an increased risk of developing CDMS. These findings are changing our views of how to monitor early MS evolution and of early MS treatment strategy.
Cognitive impairment in multiple sclerosis (MS), generally in the form of the so-called subcortical dementia, results predominantly by the disruption of communication among cortical and subcortical areas, consequent to white matter damage. Studies with conventional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) demonstrated that cognitive impairment in MS patients is related to lesion burden, although the strength of this correlation is weak. This can be partially explained by the poor pathological specificity of conventional MRI techniques and by damage in the normal-appearing white matter (NAWM). This interpretation is supported by studies using non-conventional MRI techniques, more specific to the heterogeneous substrates of MS pathology, such as the assessment of hypointense lesion load on T1-weighted scans and the measurement of the magnetization transfer ratio (MTR) of whole brain, MS lesions and NAWM. Other factors, such as the site of MS lesions and the presence of active inflammation, also seem to play an important role.
Early diagnosis of multiple sclerosis (MS) represents, to date, an essential endpoint. Diagnostic certainty may, indeed, mean the possibility to start preventive treatments and delay the appearance of a clinically definitive MS or the progression of the disease. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) represent a valid tool for early diagnosis, albeit several neurologic disorders may mimic the MRI findings of MS.
This is a document prepared by the Spanish Society of Neurology (SEN), which was given to the President of Spain (Mr. Jos Mara Aznar) last September with the main aim of examining the current situation of Neurology in our country. It analyses the present and future of Neurology in clinical assistance, teaching and research. To prepare this document the criteria of patients' associations has been considered, including the Declaration of Madrid which has been subscribed by thirty of these associations. In spite of its relevant development in the previous decades, the current situation of Neurology in Spain is far from the ideal. To reach the recommendable menber of 3 or 4 neurologists per 100,000 inhabitants it is necessary to duplicate the present number of neurologists which has been estimated around 2/100,000; this situation is especially urgent in some Autonomous Communities. The most important problems in neurological assistance are: inadequate follow-up of the chronic outpatients, low numbers of neurological beds and of duties of Neurology, as well as of neurological case of patients with urgent neurological disorders. It is also necessary to increase the number of professors of Neurology to adequately cover pregraduate teaching; again there are important differences in teaching positions among Autonomous Communities. Neurology residence should be prolonged from 4 to 5 years. Finally, it is necessary to support the appearance of superespecialised units and to promote a coordinated research with other close specialities including basic neuroscience.

The question whether oculopharyngodistal myopathy (MIM 164310) is a distinct disease entity or a variant of oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy (MIM 164300) persists. To answer this question, we examined five patients with the clinical characteristics of oculopharyngodistal myopathy for GCG expansion in poly(A)-binding protein nuclear 1 gene (previously called poly(A)-binding protein 2), the causative gene defect for oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy. Only one of our five patients had the significant GCG expansion. Thus, oculopharyngodistal myopathy is a genetically heterogeneous disorder, which includes patients with oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy but, for the most part, is different genetically from oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy.
The NMDA receptor (NMDAR) is a heteromer comprised of NR1 and NR2 subunits. Mice that overexpress the NR2B subunit exhibit enhanced hippocampal LTP, prolonged NMDAR currents, and improved memory ( Tang et al., 1999). In the current study, we explored visual cortex plasticity and NMDAR function in NR2B overexpressing transgenic mice. Unlike the hippocampus, in vitro synaptic plasticity of the visual cortex was unaltered by NR2B overexpression. Consistent with the plasticity findings, NMDAR excitatory postsynaptic current (EPSC) durations from layer 2/3 pyramidal cells were similar in wild-type (wt) and transgenic (tg) mice. Furthermore, temporal summation of NMDAR EPSCs to 10, 20, and 40 Hz stimulation did not differ between cells from wt and tg mice. Finally, although in situ studies clearly demonstrate overexpression of NR2B mRNA in visual cortex, we failed to observe a significant elevation in the synaptic expression of NR2B protein. We conclude that the synaptic ratio of NR2B over NR2A in the NMDA receptor complex in the visual cortex is not significantly influenced by the transgene overexpression. These data suggest that mRNA availability is not a limiting factor for the synthesis of NR2B protein in the visual cortex, and support the hypothesis that levels of NR2A, rather than NR2B, normally determine the subunit composition of NMDARs in visual cortex.
A conserved leucine near the middle (9' position) of the second transmembrane domain of ligand-gated ion channels has been implicated in both gating and desensitization. Specifically, L9'S and L9'T mutations decreased agonist EC50, decreased apparent desensitization and prolonged deactivation in members of the LGIC superfamily, suggesting that this residue may regulate channel properties including desensitization. GABA(A) receptors desensitize in three phases, but in previous 9' leucine studies, only slow phases of desensitization were resolved. We used excised patches containing alpha1beta3gamma2L or alpha1beta3gamma2L(L9'S) GABA(A) receptors and combined single channel recording and concentration jump techniques to reevaluate the effects of this mutation on desensitization. Although desensitization extent was decreased in mutated channels, desensitization still occurred in three phases, suggesting that desensitized states may be intact. Interestingly, deactivation rate was slowed by the mutation, opposite to that expected if desensitization was attenuated. alpha1beta3gamma2L(L9'S) receptor single channels had increased open durations. Simulations revealed that stabilizing the open state (by decreasing the channel closing rate) could account for multiple macroscopic findings: left-shifted GABA EC50, smaller extent of desensitization, slower desensitization rate, and longer deactivation. We concluded that changes in efficacy can alter macroscopic desensitization without affecting desensitized states per se.
Phosphorylation of AMPA receptor subunits is believed to regulate channel function and synaptic plasticity. Extensive biochemical and molecular studies have identified sites of PKA, PKC and CamKII phosphorylation in the C-termini of the GluR1 and 4 subunits. Recent studies have shown GluR1 phosphorylation to be bidirectionally altered during long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) in the hippocampus. The majority of AMPA receptors in the brain are believed to contain the GluR2 subunit that also contains potential sites for protein phosphorylation. Here we characterize PKC phosphorylation on the GluR2 subunit using biochemical and molecular techniques. Site-directed mutagenesis confirmed that this phosphorylation occurs on Serine 863 and Serine 880 of the GluR2 subunit C-terminus. Site identification allowed the generation of phosphorylation site-specific antibodies to facilitate the examination of GluR2 modification in primary neuronal culture. These studies confirmed that GluR2 is modified in response to the activation of PKC and suggests that phosphorylation of the ubiquitous GluR2 subunit may be important in the regulation of excitatory synaptic transmission.
Rab3A is a GTP-binding protein of synaptic vesicles that regulates neurotransmitter release and cycles on and off synaptic vesicles as a function of exocytosis. Rab3A presumably functions via GTP-dependent interactions with effectors. Two putative rab3A effectors have been described in neurons, rabphilin which is a soluble protein that moves onto and off synaptic vesicles in concert with rab3A, and RIM which is an active zone protein that only binds to rab3A on docked vesicles. Rabphilin is an abundant, evolutionarily conserved protein whose function has remained enigmatic since a knockout of rabphilin does not display the functional deficiencies observed in the rab3A knockout. However, previous studies have shown that rabphilin is phosphorylated by protein kinase A and CaM Kinase II, suggesting that it may have a regulatory role. In the present study, we have examined the site and regulation of rabphilin phosphorylation in living nerve terminals using phospho-specific antibodies raised against phospho-serine234 of rabphilin. With these antibodies, we demonstrate that rabphilin is physiologically phosphorylated on serine234, and that soluble rabphilin which is not bound to rab3A on synaptic vesicles is the primary target. However, different from synapsins which are induced to dissociate from synaptic vesicles by PKA phosphorylation, phosphorylation of rabphilin is not instrumental for dissociating rabphilin from synaptic vesicles. Our data support the notion that dissociated rabphilin is a synaptic phosphoprotein in vivo that may play a role in the regulation of nerve terminal protein-protein interactions.
Positron emission tomography with deoxyglucose-F18 was obtained during nighttime sleep in 36 normal volunteers, 12 studied in rapid eye movement sleep (REM period 2), 12 in nonREM sleep, and 12 while awake with eyes closed. Metabolic rate was higher throughout the cortex in REM than nonREM sleep, with differences most marked in the cingulate and frontal cortex, thalamus, and visual association areas. Whole-brain metabolic rates in the waking condition were intermediate between those in REM and nonREM sleep. Metabolism in the primary visual cortex and parts of the lateral temporal lobe was relatively constant in the REM/nonREM conditions. REM sleep did not differ from either the nonREM or waking conditions in hemispheric lateralization of metabolic activity. Compared with REM sleep, nonREM sleep was associated with significantly lower metabolic rates in the temporal and occipital regions, as well as the thalamus.
In the present study, we hypothesized that the REM-suppressing effects of 5-HT(1A) receptor stimulation would counteract the REM-disinhibiting effects of rapid tryptophan depletion (RTD), and vice versa. We administered RTD plus ipsapirone (10 mg, p.o.) or RTD plus placebo to 10 healthy men. In contrast to our previous findings but partially consistent with other studies, RTD in combination with placebo did not produce a significant enhancement of any REM sleep measure. The combination of RTD and ipsapirone produced a significant suppression of REM sleep that was remarkably similar to the effect of ipsapirone alone. These data appear to deepen the mystery of variable and inconsistent RTD-induced responses in healthy subjects. In the case of REM sleep measures, this differs markedly from the consistent RTD-induced REM-disinhibiting effect seen in medicated depressed patients.
The characterization of the molecular correlates of sleep and wakefulness is essential to understand the restorative processes occurring during sleep and the cellular mechanisms underlying sleep regulation. In order to determine what molecular changes occur during the sleep-waking cycle, we have recently performed a systematic screening of gene expression in the brain of sleeping, sleep deprived, and spontaneously awake rats. Out of the approximately 10,000 genes screened so far, a small minority ( approximately 0.5%) was differentially expressed in the cerebral cortex across behavioral states. Most genes were upregulated in wakefulness and sleep deprivation relative to sleep, while only a few were upregulated in sleep relative to wakefulness and sleep deprivation. Almost all the genes upregulated in sleep, and several genes upregulated in wakefulness and sleep deprivation, did not match any known sequence. Known genes expressed at higher levels in wakefulness and sleep deprivation could be grouped into functional categories: immediate early genes/transcription factors, genes related to energy metabolism, growth factors/adhesion molecules, chaperones/heat shock proteins, vesicle and synapse-related genes, neurotransmitter/hormone receptors, neurotransmitter transporters, enzymes, and others. Although the characterization of the molecular correlates of sleep, wakefulness, and sleep deprivation is still in progress, it is already apparent that the transition from sleep to waking can affect basic cellular functions such as RNA and protein synthesis, neural plasticity, neurotransmission, and metabolism.
Preclinical evidence has suggested a possible role for the 5-HT(6) receptor in the treatment of cognitive dysfunction. However, currently there is little neurochemical evidence suggesting the mechanism(s) which may be involved. Using the selective 5-HT(6) antagonist SB-271046 and in vivo microdialysis, we have evaluated the effects of this compound on the modulation of basal neurotransmitter release within multiple brain regions of the freely moving rat. SB-271046 produced no change in basal levels of dopamine (DA), norepinephrine (NE) or 5-HT in the striatum, frontal cortex, dorsal hippocampus or nucleus accumbens. Similarly, this compound had no effect on excitatory neurotransmission in the striatum or nucleus accumbens. Conversely, SB-271046 produced 3- and 2-fold increases in extracellular glutamate levels in both frontal cortex and dorsal hippocampus, respectively. These effects were completely attenuated by infusion of tetrodotoxin but unaffected by the muscarinic antagonist, atropine. Here we demonstrate for the first time the selective enhancement of excitatory neurotransmission by SB-271046 in those brain regions implicated in cognitive and memory function, and provide mechanistic evidence in support of a possible therapeutic role for 5-HT(6) receptor antagonists in the treatment of cognitive and memory dysfunction.


We investigated whether specific types of catecholamine neurons were differentially vulnerable to damage induced by excitatory amino acids (EAAs) in vitro in a rat brain slice preparation. Brain slices, 300 micro m thick, were cut horizontally, exposed to either N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) or kainic acid (KA) for 2h, fixed and then cut into thin (30 micro m) sections in the same (horizontal) plane as the slice. The sections were immunolabelled for tyrosine hydroxylase to identify different groups of catecholamine neurons (substantia nigra (SN), paranigral (PN), interfascicular (IF) and hypothalamic A11, A13 and A14) which exhibited prominent dendritic projections in the horizontal plane. Loss of dendrites was used as a sensitive index of damage that precedes the loss of the cell body. Catecholamine neurons differed strikingly in their vulnerability of EAA-induced dendrite degeneration. The most vulnerable were those in the dorsal tier of the SN, whereas the most resistant were those in the hypothalamic A11 group. For example, in the dorsal tier of SN, NMDA (50 micro M) reduced the proportion of neurons with dendrites from 64% (+/- 8% SEM) in controls to 13% (+/- 7%) whereas the majority of A11 neurons (69 +/- 10%) retained their dendrites compared to controls (89% +/- 8%). The other groups of catecholamine neurons exhibited intermediate vulnerability. An essentially similar pattern of differential vulnerability was observed with KA. An understanding of the cellular mechanisms that underlie the particular vulnerability of SN neurons in the slice will aid the discovery of pharmacological therapies to prevent or slow the pathological process in neurodegenerative diseases which involve these neurons.
Mitochondrial ornithine transporter deficiency has been called HHH syndrome, because this disorder is characterized by three biochemical abnormalities; hyperornithinemia, hyperammonemia, and homocitrullinuria, and presents with various neurological symptoms; mental retardation, spastic paraparesis with pyramidal signs, cerebellar ataxia and episodic disturbance of consciousness or coma due to hyperammonemia. We identified four mutations in the mitochondrial ornithine transporter gene (ORNT1) of Japanese patients with HHH syndrome. These include a nonsense mutation (R179X), associated with exon skipping, missense mutations (G27E, P126R), and an insertion of AAC between codons 228 and 229, leading to an insertion of amino acid Asn. Especially, R179X was detected 4 of 7 Japanese patients (8 of 14 alleles), implying that this is a common mutation in Japanese population.


Systemic hypertension is an important public health concern. If optometrists are to perform a more active role in the detection and monitoring of high blood pressure (BP), there is a need to improve the consistency of describing the retinal vasculature and to assess patient's ability to correctly report the diagnosis of hypertension, its control and medication. One hundred and one patients aged &gt; 40 years were dilated and had fundus photography performed. BP was measured and a self-reported history of general health and current medication was compared with the records of their general practitioner (GP). The status of the retinal vasculature was quantified using a numeric scale by five clinicians and this was compared to the same evaluation performed with the aid of a basic pictorial grading scale. Image analysis was used to objectively measure the artery-to-vein (A/V) ratio and arterial reflex. Arteriolar tortuosity and calibre changes were found to be the most sensitive retinal signs of high BP. Using the grading scale to describe the retinal vasculature significantly improved inter- and intra-observer repeatability. Almost half the patients examined were on medication for high BP or cardiovascular disease. Patients' ability to give their complete medical history was poor, as was their ability to recall what medication they had been prescribed. GPs indicated it was useful to receive details of their patient's BP when it was &gt; 140/90 mmHg. The use of improved description of the retinal vasculature and stronger links between optometrists and GPs may enhance future patient care.
Cardiovascular disease and stroke continue to be the chief causes of death in developed countries and one of the leading causes of visual impairment. The individual with systemic hypertension may remain asymptomatic for many years. Systemic mortality and morbidity are markedly higher for hypertensives than normotensives, but can be significantly reduced by early diagnosis and then efficient management. However, the ability of Optometrists to detect and appropriately refer systemic hypertensives remains generally poor. This review examines the disease, its effects and detection by observation of the retinal signs, particularly those considered to be pre-malignant. Previous methods of classifying retinal hypertensive signs are discussed along with more recent image analysis techniques. The role of the optometrist in detecting, monitoring and appropriate referral of systemic hypertensives is discussed in relation to current research.


Neurons must respond to a bewildering array of external and internal stimuli and must distinguish among them to generate an appropriate response or change in metabolic or electrical activity. Furthermore, the response of a cell to a given stimulus must depend on what else is happening inside and outside the cell at the time of arrival of that stimulus. The process of signal transduction is what gives the cell and organism the flexibility and &quot;knowledge base&quot; to carry out these functions. Conversely, aberrations of signal transduction underlie an increasing array of developmental, genetic, and acquired diseases and conditions of the nervous system. Pharmacological modulation of signal transduction pathways and their effectors holds great promise for the remediation of these neurologic disorders.
Neuronal tissues display high levels of protein kinase C (PKC) activity and isoform expression. The activation of this enzymatic system is important in the control of short and long term brain functions (ion channel regulation, receptor modulation, neurotransmitter release, synaptic potentiation/depression, neuronal survival) that are related to diverse brain pathologies. This review will describe recent developments in PKC regulation and changes in levels, isoforms and activation in acute and chronic neurodegenerative pathologies as well as in affective and psychic disorders. The recent availability of isoform selective inhibitors and activators may help to understand better the relevance of PKC in central nervous system (CNS) physiology and pathology and to identify new and safer pharmacologic strategies to be tested in different disease states.

Leptin affects feeding, metabolism, and neuroendocrine status. It is now clearly established that the hypothalamus coordinates these responses, though the specific brain regions engaged by leptin remain unclear. We have used combinations of neuroanatomic techniques to identify candidate pathways in the central nervous system underlying leptin action. Leptin decreases body weight in part by activating the sympathetic nervous system, resulting in increased thermogenesis and energy expenditure. We investigated hypothalamic pathways underlying leptin's effects on stimulating the sympathetic nervous system. We found that leptin activates neurons in the retrochiasmatic area (RCA) and lateral arcuate nucleus (Arc) that innervate the sympathetic preganglionic neurons in the thoracic spinal cord and also contain cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART). We also found that CART neurons in the RCA and the Arc coexpress pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) mRNA. Recent studies have reinforced the view that the lateral hypothalamic area (LHA) regulates food intake and body weight. Using retrograde tracing with leptin administration, we found retrogradely labeled cells in the Arc contained neuropeptide Y (NPY) mRNA or POMC mRNA. Following leptin administration, NPY cells in the Arc did not express Fos but expressed suppressor of cytokine signaling-3 (SOCS-3) mRNA. In contrast, leptin induced both Fos and SOCS-3 expression in POMC neurons, many of which also innervated the LHA. We suggest that leptin directly activates POMC/CART neurons that project to the LHA, the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus (PVH), and spinal sympathetic preganglionic neurons. These projections link circulating leptin and neurons that regulate feeding behavior, energy expenditure, and body weight homeostasis.
It has been recognized for some time that a number of different neuropeptides exert powerful effects on food intake. During the last few years, the neurocircuitry within which these peptides operate has also begun to be elucidated. Peptidergic feeding-regulatory neurones are found both in the hypothalamus and the brainstem, where they act as input stations for hormonal and gastrointestinal information, respectively. These cell populations both project to several other brain regions and interconnect extensively. The present review summarizes the neuroanatomy and connectivity of some prominent peptides involved in food intake control, including neuropeptide Y, melanocortin peptides, agouti gene-related protein, cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript, orexin/hypocretin, melanin-concentrating hormone and cholecystokinin. Disturbances in the hypothalamic neuropeptide systems have been implicated in the phenotype of a genetic model of fatal hypophagia, the mouse anorexia (anx) mutation, which is also discussed.
The songs of adult male zebra finches are termed &quot;directed&quot; and &quot;undirected,&quot; depending on the social context in which they occur. Females elicit directed song, whereas undirected song is not addressed to a particular conspecific and even occurs at high levels in social isolation. We tested the hypothesis that the production of undirected song is more sensitive to a brief period of food deprivation than a comparable period of water deprivation. The hypothesis was based on prior findings suggesting that song production is energetically expensive and that food deprivation constitutes a more serious energetic challenge to zebra finches than does water deprivation. Two days of food or water deprivation were imposed on several groups of birds that provided song production data and a variety of energetic measures; normative data obtained in a baseline period when food and water were available ad libitum provided a standard for comparison. Singing, which occurred exclusively in the light phase of the day, was reduced at the onset of food deprivation, ceased completely within 4 h, and did not occur at all on the second day. When water was removed, the birds showed a slower and less substantial reduction in daily song production across the 2 days of deprivation. Energetic measures indicated that food deprivation was a greater energetic challenge than water deprivation. Our results demonstrate that undirected song in zebra finches is sensitive to nonsocial environmental factors that pose an energetic challenge and raise new questions about how birds calibrate their level of song production to the availability of nutrients in the environment.
1. Aged alpha2C-adrenoceptor knockout and wild type mice were used to investigate whether alpha2C-adrenoceptors are involved in mediating the beneficial effects of alpha2-adrenoceptor agonist, dexmedetomidine, on spatial working memory. 2. A win-stay task in the radial arm maze was used to dissociate the effects of dexmedetomidine on working vs. reference memory. In addition, the animals were tested in simple response habit learning in the T-maze. 3. Knockout mice made more working memory errors after the change of the baited arm in radial arm maze, but after training reached again as accurate level of performance as wild type controls. Dexmedetomidine 5 and 10 microg/kg alleviated the increase in spatial working memory errors after the change of the baited arm in knockout mice. Knockout and wild type mice performed equally well in T-maze, and dexmedetomidine had no effect on this simple response learning. 4. The present results indicate that alpha2-adrenoceptor agonists have a selective effect on spatial working memory not only in monkeys but also in mice. Further, this study confirms our earlier finding that the presence of alpha2C-adrenoceptors is not necessary for the spatial working memory enhancing effect of alpha2-adrenoceptor agonists.
We present a one-step uncomplicated method of separation of spectrin subunits. The method is based on reverse-phase HPLC employing an analytical C4 column. Reverse-phase HPLC combines the steps of dissociation and separation of spectrin subunits. The method can be applied to different spectrin isoforms. It can be used for analytical purposes, as well as for small-scale (&lt;0.4 mg) isolation of spectrin subunits.
This monograph discusses research, theory, and practice relevant to how children learn to read English. After an initial overview of writing systems, the discussion summarizes research from developmental psychology on children's language competency when they enter school and on the nature of early reading development. Subsequent sections review theories of learning to read, the characteristics of children who do not learn to read (i.e., who have developmental dyslexia), research from cognitive psychology and cognitive neuroscience on skilled reading, and connectionist models of learning to read. The implications of the research findings for learning to read and teaching reading are discussed. Next, the primary methods used to teach reading (phonics and whole language) are summarized. The final section reviews laboratory and classroom studies on teaching reading. From these different sources of evidence, two inescapable conclusions emerge: (a) Mastering the alphabetic principle (that written symbols are associated with phonemes) is essential to becoming proficient in the skill of reading, and (b) methods that teach this principle directly are more effective than those that do not (especially for children who are at risk in some way for having difficulty learning to read). Using whole-language activities to supplement phonics instruction does help make reading fun and meaningful for children, but ultimately, phonics instruction is critically important because it helps beginning readers understand the alphabetic principle and learn new words. Thus, elementary-school teachers who make the alphabetic principle explicit are most effective in helping their students become skilled, independent readers.



Through the years, practitioners have attempted to discover more successful and empathic responses to address the needs of what has been referred to as the &quot;difficult&quot; patient. Writers in the past found it useful to define and cull out the distinctions that separated one type of &quot;difficulty&quot; in working with patients from another so as to &quot;handle&quot; some patients more effectively. Recently, it has been recognized and generally accepted that the &quot;difficulty&quot; in caring for patients frequently arises out of an interactional process between the patient and caregiver. This understanding requires practitioner self-awareness as well as reflection about motivations and responses to difficult clinical encounters. Two poems from the medical literature are explored as &quot;clinical&quot; examples that broaden our experience and understanding of the mystery and complexity of all human relationships.





Withdrawal from repeated exposure to morphine causes a long-lasting increase in the reactivity of nucleus accumbens nerve terminals towards excitation. The resulting increase in action potential-induced exocytotic release of neurotransmitters, associated with behavioral sensitization, is thought to contribute to its addictive properties. We recently showed that activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) as well as dopamine (DA) D1 receptors in rat striatum causes tetrodotoxin-insensitive transporter-dependent GABA release. Since sustained changes in extracellular GABA levels may play a role in drug-induced neuronal hyperresponsiveness, we examined the acute and long-lasting effect of morphine on this nonvesicular GABA release in rat nucleus accumbens slices. The present study shows that morphine, through activation of mu-opioid receptors, reduces nonvesicular NMDA-induced [(3)H]GABA release in superfused nucleus accumbens slices. Moreover, prior repeated morphine treatment of rats (10 mg/kg, sc, 14 days) caused a reduction in NMDA-stimulated [(3)H]GABA release in vitro until at least 3 weeks after morphine withdrawal. This persistent neuroadaptive effect was not observed studying dopamine D1 receptor-mediated [(3)H]GABA release in nucleus accumbens slices. Moreover, this phenomenon appeared to be absent in slices of the caudate putamen. Interestingly, even a single exposure of rats to morphine (&gt;2 mg/kg) caused a long-lasting inhibition of NMDA-induced release of GABA in nucleus accumbens slices. These data suggest that a reduction in nonvesicular GABA release within the nucleus accumbens, by enhancing the excitability of input and output neurons of this brain region, may contribute to the acute and persistently enhanced exocytotic release of neurotransmitters from nucleus accumbens neurons in morphine-exposed rats.
We have demonstrated that the crude synaptosome P2 fraction prepared from the rat brain is able to accumulate [(3)H]D-serine in a saturable, temperature-dependent and partially sodium- and potassium-dependent manner with an affinity of a hundred micromolar range. The inhibition profile of D-serine accumulation by various amino acids is different from those of uptake systems reported for glycine and other amino acids. The present data suggest that the endogenous D-serine may be taken up mainly through a carrier-mediated transport system to regulate its extracellular concentration in the mammalian brain.
In order to assess for the respective involvement of adenosine A(1) and A(2A) receptors (A(2A)-R) in the consequences of short- and long-term caffeine exposure on gene expression, the effects of acute caffeine administration on striatal, cortical, and hippocampal expression of immediate early genes (IEG), zif-268 and arc, and the effects of long-term caffeine or 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine (DPCPX) exposure (once daily for 15 days) on striatal gene expression of substance P, enkephalin, and glutamic acid decarboxylase isoforms, GAD65 and GAD67, were evaluated in wild-type and A(2A)-R-deficient (A(2A)-R(-/-)) mice. In situ hybridization histochemistry was performed using oligonucleotides followed by quantitative image analysis. Our results demonstrated that a biphasic response of IEG expression to acute caffeine observed in the wild-type striatum was resumed in a monophasic response in the mutant striatum. In the cerebral cortex and hippocampus, the effect of caffeine was weak in wild-type, whereas in mutant mice it induced a 2-3-fold increase in the IEG expression to restore a level similar to the wild-type basal expression. Chronic caffeine and DPCPX-mediated regulation in neuropeptide and GADs striatal gene expression typically showed the mimicking of alterations resulting from the A(2A)-R genetic deficiency in 25 mg/kg caffeine-treated wild-type mice as well as the dose-dependent normalization of substance P and enkephalin expression in A(2A)-R(-/-) mice. These results indicate that, depending on the dose, the blockade of A(2A)-R or A(1) receptors by caffeine is preferentially revealed leading to highly differential alterations in striatal gene expression and they also suggested the central role of these two receptors on the control of dopaminergic functions.
HIV-1 infection is often complicated by the dysfunction of central nervous system (CNS). Degenerative neuronal changes as well as neuronal loss have been documented in individuals with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. Feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV) causes similar CNS manifestation and FIV infected cats provide an animal model for human immunodeficiency virus infection in humans. In this study, we examined the brain of FIV-infected cats and controls with immunohistochemical techniques using antibodies to microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP-2) and glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD). We found a significant decrease in expression of MAP-2 and GAD in neurons of infected animals compared to controls. In contrast, the expression of neurofilaments and glial fibrillary acidic protein was rather increased. The changes observed in the brain were similar to those seen in humans undergoing the normal aging process as well as those suffering from neurological diseases like Alzheimer's disease and other dementing disorders. These changes in the feline brain give insight into the deleterious effects of FIV on the CNS.
Jonathon 'Joe' Howard (Fig. 1) is Group Leader and Director at the Max Planck Institute of Molecular Cell Biology and Genetics; he and his research group moved to Dresden, Germany, in July 2001. Howard received his PhD in neurobiology in 1983 from the Australian National University in Canberra. He did postdoctoral research there and also at the University of Bristol, UK, and at the University of California, San Francisco. In 1989, he joined the faculty at the University of Washington. His book &quot;Mechanics of Motor Proteins and the Cytoskeleton&quot; was published earlier this year. [interview by Mari N. Jensen]

It is known that the CNS integrates proprioceptive and visual information to calculate limb position. Recent studies implicate an additional process, which might involve initial visual calibration of limb position, or gaze signals resulting from eye movements towards the felt position.
The workshop on Multiple Sclerosis and Chemokines: Prospects for Therapeutic and Prophylactic Intervention was held in Chevy Chase, MD, USA, from 9-10 July 2001.
Gene expression in the mammalian brain is highly complex and requires an immensely powerful functional genomics tool to unravel it. Antisense has the potential to meet this requirement, but has always been plagued by biological and technological hurdles that have made the technology unreliable. With recent progress in developing potent, low-toxicity nucleic acid chemistries and novel drug delivery methods to cross the blood-brain barrier, the use of antisense is gathering momentum.



The relatively sparse vasculature of the retina minimizes obstruction to incoming light, but also poses a challenge to fulfilling the metabolic demands of retinal neurons. An efficient process for distributing energy supplies to areas of need is likely to involve neuron-derived vasoactive signals. However, knowledge of the mechanisms by which capillary perfusion is regulated by neuron-to-vascular signaling is limited. Potential targets of vasoactive molecules released from nerve cells are the pericytes, which are positioned on the endothelial walls of microvessels and are thought to play a role in controlling the microcirculation. In this study, we assessed the effect of dopamine on pericyte physiology. Because dopaminergic neurites are closely associated with microvessels that express dopamine receptors, this molecule is a putative neuron-to-capillary signal, as well as neurotransmitter. We used the perforated-patch configuration of the patch-clamp technique to monitor the whole-cell currents of pericytes located on microvessels freshly isolated from the adult rat retina. In 43% (58/134) of the sampled pericytes, we found that dopamine reversibly activated a hyperpolarizing current, which increased the membrane potential by 19 +/- 1 mV. This dopamine-induced current was inhibited by the ATP-sensitive potassium (KATP) channel blocker, glibenclamide. Consistent with a signaling pathway involving D1 dopamine receptors, adenylate cyclase and protein kinase A (PKA), the selective D1 antagonist, SCH23390, inhibited the hyperpolarizing effect of dopamine; the activator of adenylate cyclase, forskolin, mimicked the dopaminergic effect, and H89, which inhibits PKA, significantly reduced the hyperpolarization induced by dopamine. Taken together, our experiments indicate that a mechanism involving D1 dopamine receptors, adenylate cyclase, and PKA activates KATP currents in retinal pericytes. Our observations support the hypothesis that, in addition to being a neuromodulator, dopamine also serves as a signal linking neuronal activity with the function of the pericyte-containing microvasculature.
We studied the expression pattern of the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor1 (InsP3R1) mRNA after a single electroconvulsive shock (ECS) in the rat brain by in situ hybridization. The expression was significantly decreased in the dentate gyrus and the CA1 area of the hippocampal formation 3 to 24 h after ECS. While the downregulation of InsP3R1 by accelerated protein degradation has been reported, our results indicate that the downregulation of InsP3R1 occurs at the mRNA level. This finding, along with our previous report on the InsP3 3-kinase(A), suggests that ECS regulates the phosphoinositide mediated signaling, which might be related to the therapeutic mechanism of ECS.
Evaluation of electron microscopic images of serial sections is a time-consuming process requiring a high level of expertise. Here we present an algorithm to ease and accelerate this process. It is a modification of an algorithm successfully used in computer vision for object recognition. However, rather than recognising individual structures, we estimate the spatial mapping of a whole section onto the consecutive one. This mapping is used to transfer labelled information of the very first section, e.g. a classification by a human expert of different visible structures, onto structures visible in the next section. We investigate its performance on an artificially constructed benchmark as well as on real electron microscopic samples taken in primary visual cortex and demonstrate its potential for dramatically facilitating the evaluation process of serial sections.
In neurophysiology, time delays between concurrently measured time series are usually estimated from the slope of a straight line fitted to the phase spectrum. We point out that this estimate is valid only in the case in which, one signal is a mere time-delayed copy of the other one. We present a procedure for delay estimation that applies to a much wider class of systems with nontrivial phase spectrum like for example lowpass filters. The procedure is based on the Hilbert transform relation between the phase of a linear system and its log gain. The Hilbert transform relation is nonlocal in frequency space, a fact that limits its applicability to experimental data. We explore these limits, and demonstrate that the method is applicable to neurophysiological time series. We present the successful application of the Hilbert transform behavior method to concurrently recorded epicortical brain activity and peripheral tremor. We point out and explain physiologically unreasonable delay estimates given by the traditional method. Finally, we discuss the assumptions underlying the applicability of the Hilbert transform method in the neuroscience context.
A detailed knowledge of the quantitative properties of the currents I(Na) and I(K) underlying the action potential is essential for a deeper understanding of neuronal excitatory processes. However, it is not always possible or practical to perform voltage-clamp measurements that usually provide the necessary data. In this paper, we present a method by which the activation and kinetic properties of these currents can be estimated from current-clamp data, more precisely from the time course of the action potential, provided some additional electrophysiological properties of the neurone are a priori known. We report results from thalamocortical neurones and a cortical pyramidal cell, and suggest that the method will work with other types of neurones, if their action potentials are primarily shaped by I(Na) and I(K).
In this report we show that the observed inter-neuronal correlation reflects a superposition of correlations associated with the intrinsic correlation between neurons, and correlations associated with variability in the stimuli presented to, or the actions performed by, the subject. We argue that the effects of either stimulus or action variability on the observed correlation, though generally ignored, can be substantial. Specifically, we demonstrate how observed correlations are effected by trial to trial variability in either stimulus or action. In addition, assuming that all relevant stimuli and actions are known, we outline a method for eliminating their effects on the observed correlation. It is also shown that tuning of correlations to a stimulus or an action might be a direct consequence of variability in that stimulus or action, even in the absence of any modulation of direct inter-neuronal interaction. The effects of stimulus and action variability should therefore be carefully considered when designing and interpreting experiments involving multi-neuronal recordings.
The quantification of phase synchrony between neuronal signals is of crucial importance for the study of large-scale interactions in the brain. Two methods have been used to date in neuroscience, based on two distinct approaches which permit a direct estimation of the instantaneous phase of a signal [Phys. Rev. Lett. 81 (1998) 3291; Human Brain Mapping 8 (1999) 194]. The phase is either estimated by using the analytic concept of Hilbert transform or, alternatively, by convolution with a complex wavelet. In both methods the stability of the instantaneous phase over a window of time requires quantification by means of various statistical dependence parameters (standard deviation, Shannon entropy or mutual information). The purpose of this paper is to conduct a direct comparison between these two methods on three signal sets: (1) neural models; (2) intracranial signals from epileptic patients; and (3) scalp EEG recordings. Levels of synchrony that can be considered as reliable are estimated by using the technique of surrogate data. Our results demonstrate that the differences between the methods are minor, and we conclude that they are fundamentally equivalent for the study of neuroelectrical signals. This offers a common language and framework that can be used for future research in the area of synchronization.
Neurons in the inner nuclear layer (INL) of the vertebrate retina undergo considerable programmed cell death during development, but the determinants of this cell death remain largely unknown. The present study examines the role of retinal ganglion cells in support of INL neurons in the developing ferret retina. The retinal ganglion cell population was eliminated by optic nerve transection at postnatal day (P) 2, and the incidence of cell death was examined using terminal deoxytransferase dUTP nick-end labelling (TUNEL) at various ages during the first 3 postnatal weeks. Significant increases in TUNEL-positive cells were observed in the neuroblast layer (NBL) as early as P3, prior to synapse formation within the inner plexiform layer (IPL), and again in the INL at P22, the normal peak of naturally occurring cell death within the ferret's INL. A decrease in TUNEL-positive cells was found in the NBL at P8. These results show three phases of response to the loss of retinal ganglion cells and suggest that cells in the NBL/INL are normally dependent on retinal ganglion cells for their survival. Recent studies have shown that certain populations of retinal neurons are reduced in adult animals that had lost the population of ganglion cells during early development, so the present study also examined when this reduction could first be detected. The number of parvalbumin-immunoreactive amacrine cells was decreased significantly in the NBL of the manipulated eye as early as P8, when we could first label this population, and this difference persisted through adulthood. The fact that cell death in the NBL has already increased within 24 hours of ganglion cell elimination, coupled with the specificity of this effect on the adult complement of INL cell types, shows that cell-cell interactions controlling survival are already highly specific for particular types of retinal neuron early in development
The neuropeptide galanin is known to be involved in nociceptive sensory processing in the spinal cord. We have attempted to better characterise the function of endogenous galanin in nociceptive signalling by examining a mouse strain carrying a loss of function mutation in the galanin gene (gal-/-). Galanin expression is significantly up-regulated following damage to a peripheral nerve. To address what effect this up-regulation has on spinal cord excitability we have examined wild type (gal+/+) and gal-/- mice 3 days after complete transection of the sciatic nerve using an electrophysiological paradigm, the flexor withdrawal reflex. We demonstrate that the up-regulation of galanin has no direct effect on basal spinal excitability after nerve injury. However, galanin is shown to be a crucial neuromodulator involved in the development of the central sensitization as both windup and the facilitation of spinal reflexes following conditioning stimulation are significantly impaired in gal-/- mice following peripheral nerve injury.
Previous studies have indicated that frequency maps (tonotopies) in mammalian auditory brain centers are plastic. Here, we examined this plasticity in the mouse auditory midbrain through focal stimulation of the primary auditory cortex. Cortical activation shifted midbrain frequency tunings toward the best frequencies of the stimulated cortical neurons if these were either higher or lower than the cortical ones. Such corticofugal adjustments appear to minimize the difference between cortical and collicular frequency tuning within the critical bandwidths of the auditory system. Consequently, the neural representation is enhanced for the frequencies to which the cortical neurons were tuned. Our data suggest that the auditory cortex reorganizes midbrain tonotopy on the basis of which cortical frequencies are stimulated, mostly probably through corticofugal projections.
We explored the possibility of cytochrome oxidase (CO) involvement in spinal cord regeneration in adult rats. The spinal cord was hemitransected at T9. After one month's survival, the animals were deeply anesthetized and perfused. The spinal cord segments including the lesion site were removed and sectioned horizontally for CO histochemistry. Under light microscope, a substantial number of CO-reactive nerve fibers and boutons were identified in the lateral funiculus adjacent to the lesion site. Under electron microscope, moderately to highly CO-reactive mitochondria could be seen within nerve fibers and boutons. Synaptic contacts were identified among them. The increase in CO activity in nerve fibers and boutons may indicate their high-energy demand for synaptic and spontaneous activity following spinal cord hemisection.
RA175, a new member of the immunoglobulin superfamily, is highly expressed during neuronal differentiation of P19 embryonal carcinoma cells. In situ hybridization showed that RA175 mRNA was detected in the developing nervous system, as well as the epithelium of the various non-neuronal tissues of mouse embryo. In contrast with the epithelia of the non-neuronal tissues, RA175 mRNA was not co-expressed with Sonic hedgehog mRNA and Patched mRNA during brain morphogenesis. RA175 mRNA was highly expressed in the anterior horn cells and the peripheral nervous system at embryonic day (E) 11.5 and in the central nervous system at E14.5-E18.5, but its expression decreased after birth and was undetectable in the adult mouse brain.
Reelin is a secreted extracellular matrix protein approximately 410 kDa mol. wt that is reduced in brains of patients with schizophrenia, autism, bipolar disorder and major depression. Recent reports also indicate its near absence in sera of some patients with an autosomal recessive form of lissencephaly. Moreover, Reelin is involved not only in normal cortical lamination of the brain during mammalian embryogenesis but is also implicated in cell signaling systems subserving cognition in adult brain. Here, we show that blood levels of Reelin and its isoforms are altered in three psychiatric disorders, namely, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and major depression. The changes include significant increases in 410 kDa Reelin moiety of 49% in schizophrenic patients (p &lt; 0.022) of four ethnic compositions (Caucasian, Vietnamese, Hmong and Laotian) and non-significant increases in depressed patients by 34% vs control blood. In contrast, 410 kDa Reelin levels decreased by 33% in bipolar blood, albeit non-signficantly, vs. controls. There was a significant increase of 90% (p &lt; 0.0061) in 330 kDa Reelin in Caucasian schizophrenics; the depressed value was elevated by 30% vs. control but non-significantly. Again, in contrast, bipolar 330 kDa value decreased by 31% vs control (p &lt; 0.0480). Finally, all 180 kDa Reelin values varied minimally in schizophrenics vs controls. In contrast, the 180 kDa Reelin values dropped significantly by 49% (p &lt; 0.0117) and 29% (p &lt; 0.0424) in bipolar and depressed patients, respectively, compared with controls. The alterations in blood Reelin values appear to be specific since levels of two other blood proteins, ceruloplasmin and albumin did not vary significantly between all psychiatric subjects and controls. These findings suggest that blood Reelin levels and its isoforms may be used as potential peripheral markers to diagnose presence of several psychiatric disorders and may also serve as targets for future therapeutic interventions.
A spoken word with more than one syllable contains a specific stress pattern found to be processed during spoken word recognition. The present study investigated the word's pitch contour as a single auditory parameter that marks stress. Event-related brain potentials (ERPs) were recorded while subjects made decisions to artificially pitch manipulated words. ERPs revealed that pitch contours are discriminated already within the first syllable of a word. Furthermore, behavioral responses for words with incorrect pitch contours were longer than for words with correct pitch contours. The results suggest that the pitch contour is an auditory feature of the spoken word that a listener automatically processes during spoken word recognition.
Osteopontin (OPN) is a noncollagenous component of bone matrix. It mediates cell attachment and activates signal transduction pathways. In this work, bone cells, cultured from fragments of long bones derived from wild-type and OPN-/- (&quot;knock-out&quot;) mice, were exposed to pulsatile fluid flow (PFF) over a 60-min period. The medium was assayed periodically for nitric oxide (NO) and prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) release. OPN+/+ cells exhibited a peak of NO production 5-10 min after the onset of PFF, decreasing to a stable plateau at 15 min; much less NO was produced by the OPN-/- cells. PFF resulted in reduced PGE(2) release by both cell types, although the reduction was less for the OPN-/- cells in the 15-30 min window. Both cell types exhibited a similar enhancement of cyclooxygenase2 mRNA levels 60 min after initiation of PFF. These results suggest that bone cells require OPN to respond fully to PFF as assessed by increased NO and reduced PGE(2) synthesis.
We investigated the role of the HIV-1 protein Tat in AIDS-associated dementia, by studying its toxicity on rat cortical and hippocampal neurons in vitro. We evaluated the involvement of astroglial cells and of caspase transduction pathway in determining Tat toxicity. Here we report that synthetic Tat(1-86) induced apoptotic death on cultured rat neurons in a time-dependent manner that was not influenced by glial coculture, and that was abolished by blocking caspase transduction pathway. A microfluorimetric analysis on the Tat excitatory properties on neurons, and its effect on intracellular calcium concentrations, revealed that Tat(1-86) induced increase in cytoplasmic free calcium concentrations in rat hippocampal and cortical neurons. This effect required extracellular calcium and was differently reduced by voltage dependent calcium channel blockers and both NMDA and non-NMDA glutamate receptors antagonists. Furthermore, we observed that Tat(1-86)-treated neurons showed increased sensitivity to the glutamate excitotoxicity. Thus, the Tat-induced neuronal injury seems to occur through a direct interaction of the protein with neurons, requires activation of caspases, and is likely to derive from Tat(1-86)-induced calcium loads and disruption of glutamatergic transmission.
We recorded from 71 neurons in the ectostriatum of awake behaving pigeons performing the delayed matching-to-sample task. The ectostriatum is considered to be equivalent to the primate extrastriate cortex. Many of the neurons (n=56, 78.9%) were visually responsive to either or both the red and green stimuli. In addition, a large number of neurons (n=51, 71.8%) exhibited delay activity, that is, a change in activity during the delay period when memory was required compared to the baseline intertrial interval period when memory was not required. We were more likely to encounter a delay neuron when the subjects performed well (&gt;75% correct) compared to when the subjects performed poorly (&lt;75% correct), suggesting that delay activity may carry some functional significance. Finally, the magnitude of the delay activity did not vary across the delay period but remained at a constant elevated or depressed level. Overall, our findings in pigeons are very similar to those reported for primates, and suggest that the pigeon may be an excellent model in which to study the neural mechanisms of visual information processing.
Physiological studies have suggested that mu-opioid receptor (MOR) activation can both excite and inhibit reticulospinal neurons in the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVL), possibly via influences on GABAergic neurons. Thus, to determine the cellular relationships of MORs to GABAergic neurons in the RVL, two experimental approaches were used. First, single sections through the RVL were labeled for MOR using immunoperoxidase detection and for GABA using immunogold detection and examined by electron microscopy. These studies revealed that MOR-immunoreactive (IR) terminals were smaller on average than GABA-IR terminals and formed both asymmetric and symmetric synapses, whereas GABA-IR terminals formed exclusively symmetric synapses. MOR and GABA immunoreactivities rarely co-localized. Interactions between axons and terminals containing MOR or GABA immunoreactivity were primarily: (1) direct appositions with each other; or (2) convergence onto a common dendritic target that sometimes contained either MOR or GABA immunoreactivity. Since the identity of these target dendrites mostly was unknown, a second study was designed to determine if they might be reticulospinal neurons. For this study, reticulospinal neurons were identified with a retrograde tracer and both MOR and GABA were localized in the same sections of the RVL. These studies revealed that numerous GABA-IR terminals formed symmetric synapses on the perikarya and proximal dendrites of reticulospinal neurons. In contrast, few MOR-IR terminals contacted reticulospinal perikarya and large dendrites although they were often found nearby. These results provide anatomical evidence that MOR activation by endogenous or exogenous agonists may indirectly alter GABAergic neurotransmission in the RVL either through presynaptic interactions between cells or through competing influences on postsynaptic targets.
The pharmacological characteristics of [3H]dofetilide binding were examined in membranes prepared from human embryonic kidney (HEK293) cells stably expressing human ether--go-go related gene (HERG) K+ channels. The classIII antiarrhythmic compounds dofetilide, clofilium, 4'-[[1-[2-(6-methyl-2-pyridyl)ethyl]-4-piperidyl]carbonyl]methanesulfonanilide (E-4031), N-methyl-N-[2-[methyl-(1-methyl-1H-benzimidazol-2-yl)amino]ethyl]-4-[(methylsulfonyl)amino]benzene-sulfonamide (WAY-123,398) and d-sotalol all inhibited [3H]dofetilide binding. In addition, the structurally unrelated compounds pimozide, terfenadine and haloperidol, all of which prolong the QT interval in man, also inhibited binding. These data indicate that a [3H]dofetilide binding assay using HERG membranes may help identify compounds that prolong the QT interval.
Modulations of the extracellular matrix and scar formation following central nervous system (CNS) injuries are considered prohibitive for axon regeneration, thus restricting functional recovery. Recent findings indicating that lysyl oxidase, an extracellular matrix-forming enzyme, appears in a time-dependent manner at brain injury sites have suggested that inhibition of this enzyme may be conducive for regeneration and functional recovery. Here, we report that after unilateral spinal cord transection in adult mice, daily treatment (for 20 days) with the lysyl oxidase inhibitor beta-aminopropionitrile (100 mg/kg intraperitoneal) resulted in accelerated and more complete functional recovery. The mode of functional recovery, however, indicates that axonal regeneration of long descending tracts did not occur.
Peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM), an integral membrane protein essential for the biosynthesis of amidated peptides, was used to assess the role of cytosolic acidic clusters in trafficking to regulated secretory granules. Casein kinase II phosphorylates Ser(949) and Thr(946) of PAM, generating a short, cytosolic acidic cluster. P-CIP2, a protein kinase identified by its ability to interact with several juxtamembrane determinants in the PAM cytosolic domain, also phosphorylates Ser(949). Antibody specific for phospho-Ser(949)-PAM-CD demonstrates that a small fraction of the PAM-1 localized to the perinuclear region bears this modification. Pituitary cell lines expressing PAM-1 mutants that mimic (TS/DD) or prevent (TS/AA) phosphorylation at these sites were studied. PAM-1 TS/AA yields a lumenal monooxygenase domain that enters secretory granules inefficiently and is rapidly degraded. In contrast, PAM-1 TS/DD is routed to regulated secretory granules more efficiently than wild-type PAM-1 and monooxygenase release is more responsive to secretagogue. Furthermore, this acidic cluster affects exit of internalized PAM-antibody complexes from late endosomes; internalized PAM-1 TS/DD accumulates in a late endocytic compartment instead of the trans-Golgi network. The increased ability of solubilized PAM-1 TS/DD to aggregate at neutral pH may play an important role in its altered trafficking.

We characterized beta-synuclein, the non-amyloidogenic homolog of alpha-synuclein, as an inhibitor of aggregation of alpha-synuclein, a molecule implicated in Parkinson's disease. For this, doubly transgenic mice expressing human (h) alpha- and beta-synuclein were generated. In doubly transgenic mice, beta-synuclein ameliorated motor deficits, neurodegenerative alterations, and neuronal alpha-synuclein accumulation seen in halpha-synuclein transgenic mice. Similarly, cell lines transfected with beta-synuclein were resistant to alpha-synuclein accumulation. halpha-synuclein was coimmunoprecipitated with hbeta-synuclein in the brains of doubly transgenic mice and in the double-transfected cell lines. Our results raise the possibility that beta-synuclein might be a natural negative regulator of alpha-synuclein aggregation and that a similar class of endogenous factors might regulate the aggregation state of other molecules involved in neurodegeneration. Such an anti-amyloidogenic property of beta-synuclein might also provide a novel strategy for the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders.
Regulation of gene expression by dopamine may play an important role in learning, reward, and addiction. Hyman and colleagues now report the characterization of ania-6, a novel cyclin that associates with RNA polymerase II and is induced by dopamine or cocaine in the neostriatum. Ania-6 may thus provide a link between dopamine and gene expression at the level of mRNA processing.

Effects of microgravity on postural control and volume of extracellular fluids as well as stress associated with space flight may affect the function of hypothalamic neurosecretory neurons. Since environmental modifications in young animals may result in permanent alterations in neuroendocrine function, the present study was designed to determine the effect of a space flight on oxytocinergic and vasopressinergic magnocellular hypothalamic neurons of prepuberal rats. Fifteen-day-old Sprague-Dawley female rats were flown aboard the Space Shuttle Columbia (STS-90, Neurolab mission, experiment 150) for 16 days. Age-matched litters remained on the ground in cages similar to those of the flight animals. Six animals from each group were killed on the day of landing and eight animals from each group were maintained under standard vivarium conditions and killed 18 weeks after landing. Several signs of enhanced transcriptional and biosynthetic activity were observed in magnocellular supraoptic neurons of flight animals on the day of landing compared to control animals. These include increased c-Fos expression, larger nucleoli and cytoplasm, and higher volume occupied in the neuronal perikaryon by mitochondriae, endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi apparatus, lysosomes and cytoplasmic inclusions known as nematosomes. In contrast, the volume occupied by neurosecretory vesicles in the supraoptic neuronal perikarya was significantly decreased in flight rats. This decrease was associated with a significant decrease in oxytocin and vasopressin immunoreactive levels, suggestive of an increased hormonal release. Vasopressin levels, cytoplasmic volume and c-Fos expression returned to control levels by 18 weeks after landing. These reversible effects were probably associated to osmotic stimuli resulting from modifications in the volume and distribution of extracellular fluids and plasma during flight and landing. However, oxytocin levels were still reduced at 18 weeks after landing in flight animals compared to controls. This indicates that space flight during prepuberal age may induce irreversible modifications in the regulation of oxytocinergic neurons, which in turn may result in permanent endocrine and behavioral impairments.
In vertebrate photoreceptors, photoexcited rhodopsin interacts with the G protein transducin, causing it to bind GTP and stimulate the enzyme cGMP phosphodiesterase. The rapid termination of the active state of this pathway is dependent upon a photoreceptor-specific regulator of G protein signaling RGS9-1 that serves as a GTPase activating protein (GAP) for transducin. Here, we show that, in preparations of photoreceptor outer segments (OS), RGS9-1 is readily phosphorylated by an endogenous Ser/Thr protein kinase. Protein kinase C and MAP kinase inhibitors reduced labeling by about 30%, while CDK5 and CaMK II inhibitors had no effect. cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) inhibitor H89 reduced RGS9-1 labeling by more than 90%, while dibutyryl-cAMP stimulated it 3-fold, implicating PKA as the major kinase responsible for RGS9-1 phosphorylation in OS. RGS9-1 belongs to an RGS subfamily also including RGS6, RGS7, and RGS11, which exist as heterodimers with the G protein beta subunit Gbeta5. Phosphorylated RGS9-1 remains associated with Gbeta5L, a photoreceptor-specific splice form, which itself was not phosphorylated. RGS9-1 immunoprecipitated from OS was in vitro phosphorylated by exogenous PKA. The PKA catalytic subunit could also phosphorylate recombinant RGS9-1, and mutational analysis localized phosphorylation sites to Ser(427) and Ser(428). Substitution of these residues for Glu, to mimic phosphorylation, resulted in a reduction of the GAP activity of RGS9-1. In OS, RGS9-1 phosphorylation required the presence of free Ca(2+) ions and was inhibited by light, suggesting that RGS9-1 phosphorylation could be one of the mechanisms mediating a stronger photoresponse in dark-adapted cells.

White adipose tissue plays an integral role in energy metabolism and is governed by endocrine, autocrine, and neural signals. Neural control of adipose metabolism is mediated by sympathetic neurons that innervate the tissue. To investigate the effects of this innervation, an ex vivo system was developed in which 3T3-L1 adipocytes are cocultured with sympathetic neurons isolated from the superior cervical ganglia of newborn rats. In coculture, both adipocytes and neurons exhibit appropriate morphology, express cell-type-specific markers, and modulate key metabolic processes in one another. Lipolysis (stimulated by beta-adrenergic agents) and leptin secretion by adipocytes are down-regulated by neurons in coculture, effects apparently mediated by neuropeptide Y (NPY). Secretion of NPY by neurons is up-regulated dramatically by the presence of adipocytes in coculture and appears to be mediated by an adipocyte-derived soluble factor. Insulin, an antilipolytic agent, down-regulates NPY secretion. Our findings suggest that an adipocyte-derived factor(s) up-regulates the secretion of NPY by sympathetic neurons, which, in turn, attenuates lipolytic energy mobilization by adipocytes.
The developing mammalian spinal cord contains distinct populations of motor neurons that can be distinguished by their cell body positions, by the expression of specific combinations of regulatory genes, and by the paths that their axons take to exit the central nervous system (CNS). Subclasses of spinal motor neurons are also thought to express specific cell surface proteins that function as receptors which control the guidance of their axons. We identified monoclonal antibody (mAb) SAC1 in a screen aimed at generating markers for specific subsets of neurons/axons in the developing rat spinal cord. During early embryogenesis, mAb SAC1 selectively labels a small subset of Isl1-positive motor neurons located exclusively within cervical segments of the spinal cord. Strikingly, these neurons extend mAb SAC1-positive axons along a dorsally directed trajectory toward the lateral exit points. Consistent with the finding that mAb SAC1 also labels spinal accessory nerves, these observations identify mAb SAC1 as a specific marker of spinal accessory motor neurons/axons. During later stages of embryogenesis, mAb SAC1 is transiently expressed on both dorsally and ventrally projecting spinal motor neurons/axons. Interestingly, mAb SAC1 also labels the notochord and floor plate during most stages of spinal cord development. The mAb SAC1 antigen is a 100-kD glycoprotein that is likely to be the rat homolog of SC1/BEN/DM-GRASP, a homophilic adhesion molecule that mediates axon outgrowth and fasciculation.
Patients with a peripheral nerve injury often suffer from persistent chronic pain, but the underlying mechanism remains largely unknown. The persistent nature of the pain suggests injury-induced profound structural changes along the sensory pathways. In the present study, using the plant Griffonia simplicifolia I isolectin B4 (IB4) as a marker for nonpeptidergic small sensory neurons, we sought to examine whether these neurons sprout in the dorsal root ganglia (DRG) in response to peripheral nerve injury. The lumbar 5 (L5) spinal nerve was transected, and rats were allowed to survive for varying lengths of time before IB4 histology was performed. We found that a subpopulation of IB4-positive sensory neurons sprouted robustly after spinal nerve injury. Twelve weeks after spinal nerve injury, the IB4-positive ring structures became dramatic and encircled both large and small neurons in the DRG. The aberrant sprouting of small sensory neurons was also demonstrated by retrograde labeling. The processes of satellite cells surrounding large sensory neurons also became IB4 positive, and 87.8% of perineuronal IB4-positive ring structures intermingled and/or coexpressed with glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive satellite cells. Thus, the sprouting axons of IB4-positive neurons were intermingled with IB4-positive satellite cells, forming perineuronal ring structures surrounding large-diameter neurons. Ultrastructural examinations further confirmed that IB4-positive nerve terminals were entangled with satellite cells and IB4-negative unmyelinated sprouting fibers around sensory neurons. These studies have provided the first evidence that a subpopulation of IB4-binding small sensory neurons sprouts and forms perineuronal ring structures together with IB4-positive satellite cells in response to nerve injury. The significance of the sprouting of IB4-positive neurons remains to be determined.
The suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) is the principal circadian pacemaker of the mammalian circadian timing system. The SCN is composed of two anatomically and functionally distinct subdivisions, designated core and shell, which can be distinguished on the basis of their chemoarchitecture and connections in the rat. In the present study, we examine the intrinsic organization and the afferent and efferent connections of the mouse SCN using immunocytochemistry and ocular injections of cholera toxin. Neurons of the SCN shell contain GABA, calbindin (CALB), arginine vasopressin (AVP), angiotensin II (AII) and met-enkephalin (mENK), and receive input from galanin (GAL) and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) immunoreactive fibers. Neurons of the SCN core synthesize GABA, CALB, VIP, calretinin (CALR), gastrin releasing peptide (GRP), and neurotensin (NT), and receive input from the retina and from fibers that contain neuropeptide Y (NPY) and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5HT). Fibers projecting from SCN neurons that are immunoreactive for AVP and VIP exhibit a characteristic morphology, and project to the lateral septum, a series of medial hypothalamic areas extending from the preoptic to the posterior hypothalamic area and to the paraventricular thalamic nucleus. The organization of the mouse SCN, and its connections, are similar to that in other mammalian species.
The ability of the partial muscarinic agonist pilocarpine to increase in vivo phosphoinositide (PI) hydrolysis in mouse brain was compared to two full agonists. Pilocarpine increased in vivo phosphoinositide (PI) hydrolysis in cortex, striatum, and to the greatest extent in the hippocampus. Pilocarpine injected either subcutaneously or intracerebroventricularly robustly increased in vivo PI hydrolysis in hippocampus up to 500% of control levels and the increases were blocked by the muscarinic antagonist scopolamine. The increases in vivo PI hydrolysis induced by pilocarpine were 60-75% of the magnitude of the full muscarinic agonists oxotremorine-M and cis-dioxolane. The muscarinic M(1) preferring antagonist pirenzepine potently blocked pilocarpine-induced increases in in vivo PI hydrolysis, consistent with the increase being mediated by M(1) receptors. Since pilocarpine is a relatively weak partial agonist, these data suggest a substantial level of receptor reserve for the PI response in mouse hippocampus.
Corpora amylacea (CA) are spherical bodies routinely observed throughout the aged human brain, normally found at high frequencies under the ependymal lining of the ventricles. We identified clusters of CA under the ependyma of the lateral and fourth ventricles in post-mortem brain material from Parkinson patients as well as age-matched controls. Using a monoclonal antibody we found CA to be immunoreactive for nestin, a marker of neural stem cells, while no other structures in the investigated brain areas were labeled by this antibody. Nestin filaments are therefore possible structural components of CA, a finding which may trigger new hypotheses regarding their biogenesis and function.
Activation of the c-Jun N-terminal (JNK) or stress-activated protein kinases (SAPK) is associated with a wide range of disparate cellular responses to extracellular stimuli, including either induction of or protection from apoptosis. This study investigates the effect of ischemia and reperfusion on JNK isoform activities using a reversible rabbit spinal cord ischemia model. High basal JNK activity, attributed to the p46 JNK1 isoform, was expressed in the CNS of untreated rabbits. JNK activity decreased in the lumbar spinal cord of rabbits occluded for 15-60 min. During reperfusion animals occluded for 15 min recovered neurological function and JNK activity returned to normal levels. In contrast animals occluded for 60 min remained permanently paraplegic and JNK activity was half the control activity after 18 h of reperfusion. In these animals proteolytic fragments of JNK1 and JNK3 were observed and protein levels, but not activity, of JNK isoforms increased in a detergent-insoluble fraction. Two novel c-Jun (and ATF-2) kinase activities increased during reperfusion of animals occluded for 60 min. An activity designated p46(slow) was similar in M(r) to a JNK2 isoform induced in these animals. A second 30-kDa activity associated with the detergent-insoluble fraction co-migrated with a JNK3 N-terminal fragment. The results show that JNK1 is active in the normal CNS and increased activity is not associated with durations of ischemia and reperfusion that induce cell death. However, specific JNK isoform activation may participate in the cell death pathways as increased activity of novel c-Jun (ATF-2) kinase activities was observed in paraplegic animals.
In humans, damage to the nervous system can lead to a pain state referred to as neuropathic pain. Here, we give a short overview of the clinical picture and classification of neuropathic pain and highlight some of the currently known pathophysiological mechanisms involved, with special emphasis on neuropeptide plasticity. In this context, we discuss a specific group of neuropeptides, the melanocortins. These peptides have been demonstrated to play a role in nociception and to functionally interact with the opiate system. Recently, we demonstrated that spinal melanocortin receptors are upregulated in a rat model of neuropathic pain and that blockade of the melanocortin MC(4) receptor has anti-allodynic effects in this condition, suggesting that the melanocortin system plays a role in neuropathic pain. A natural agonist of melanocortin receptors is alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH), derived from the precursor molecule pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC). Cleavage of this precursor also yields beta-endorphin, which is co-released with alpha-MSH in nociception-associated areas of the spinal cord. We hypothesise that melanocortin receptor blockade attenuates a tonic influence of alpha-MSH on nociception, thus allowing the analgesic effects of beta-endorphin to develop, resulting in the alleviation of allodynia. In this way, treatment with melanocortin receptor antagonists might enhance opioid efficacy in neuropathic pain, which would be of great benefit in clinical practice.
This review deals with physiological and biological mechanisms of neuropathic pain, that is, pain induced by injury or disease of the nervous system. Animal models of neuropathic pain mostly use injury to a peripheral nerve, therefore, our focus is on results from nerve injury models. To make sure that the nerve injury models are related to pain, the behavior was assessed of animals following nerve injury, i.e. partial/total nerve transection/ligation or chronic nerve constriction. The following behaviors observed in such animals are considered to indicate pain: (a) autotomy, i.e. self-attack, assessed by counting the number of wounds implied, (b) hyperalgesia, i.e. strong withdrawal responses to a moderate heat stimulus, (c) allodynia, i.e. withdrawal in response to non-noxious tactile or cold stimuli. These behavioral parameters have been exploited to study the pharmacology and modulation of neuropathic pain. Nerve fibers develop abnormal ectopic excitability at or near the site of nerve injury. The mechanisms include unusual distributions of Na(+) channels, as well as abnormal responses to endogenous pain producing substances and cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha). Persistent abnormal excitability of sensory nerve endings in a neuroma is considered a mechanism of stump pain after amputation. Any local nerve injury tends to spread to distant parts of the peripheral and central nervous system. This includes erratic mechano-sensitivity along the injured nerve including the cell bodies in the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) as well as ongoing activity in the dorsal horn. The spread of pathophysiology includes upregulation of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) in axotomized neurons, deafferentation hypersensitivity of spinal neurons following afferent cell death, long-term potentiation (LTP) of spinal synaptic transmission and attenuation of central pain inhibitory mechanisms. In particular, the efficacy of opioids at the spinal level is much decreased following nerve injury. Repeated or prolonged noxious stimulation and the persistent abnormal input following nerve injury activate a number of intracellular second messenger systems, implying phosphorylation by protein kinases, particularly protein kinase C (PKC). Intracellular signal cascades result in immediate early gene (IEG) induction which is considered as the overture of a widespread change in protein synthesis, a general basis for nervous system plasticity. Although these processes of increasing nervous system excitability may be considered as a strategy to compensate functional deficits following nerve injury, its by-product is widespread nervous system sensitization resulting in pain and hyperalgesia. An important sequela of nerve injury and other nervous system diseases such as virus attack is apoptosis of neurons in the peripheral and central nervous system. Apoptosis seems to induce neuronal sensitization and loss of inhibitory systems, and these irreversible processes might be in common to nervous system damage by brain trauma or ischemia as well as neuropathic pain. The cellular pathobiology including apoptosis suggests future strategies against neuropathic pain that emphasize preventive aspects.
Presenilin 1 (PS1) is linked with Alzheimer's disease but exhibits functional roles regulating growth and development. For instance, PS1 binds to beta-catenin and modulates beta-catenin signaling. In the current study, we observed that knockout of PS1 inhibited beta-catenin-mediated transcription by 35%, as shown by a luciferase reporter driven by the hTcf-4 promoter. Overexpressing wild-type PS1 increased beta-catenin-mediated transcription by 37.5%, and overexpressing PS1 with mutations associated with Alzheimer's disease decreased beta-catenin-mediated transcription by 66%. To examine whether regulation of beta-catenin by PS1 requires phosphorylation by glycogen synthase kinase 3beta (GSK 3beta), we examined whether inhibiting GSK 3beta activity overcomes the inhibition of beta-catenin transcription induced by mutant PS1 constructs. Cells expressing wild-type or mutant PS1 were treated with LiCl, which inhibits GSK 3beta, or transfected with beta-catenin constructs that lack the GSK 3beta phosphorylation sites. Neither treatment overcame PS1-mediated inhibition of beta-catenin signaling, suggesting that regulation of beta-catenin by PS1 was not affected by the activity of GSK 3beta. To investigate how PS1 might regulate beta-catenin signaling, we determined whether PS1 interacts with other elements of the beta-catenin signaling cascade, such as the Tcf-4 transcription factor. Coimmunoprecipitation studies showed binding of PS1 and hTcf-4, and examining nuclear isolates indicated that nuclear hTcf-4 was decreased in cells expressing mutant PS1. These data show that PS1 interacts with multiple components of the beta-catenin signaling cascade and suggest that PS1 regulates beta-catenin in a manner independent of GSK 3beta activity.
The inositol pyrophosphate disphosphoinositol pentakisphosphate (PP-InsP(3)/InsP(7)) is formed in mammals by two recently cloned inositol hexakiphosphate kinases, InsP(6)K1 and InsP(6)K2 (Saiardi, A., Erdjument-Bromage, H., Snowman, A. M., Tempst, P., and Snyder, S. H. (1999) Curr. Biol. 9, 1323-1326). We now report the identification, cloning, and characterization of a third InsP(7) forming enzyme designated InsP(6)K3. InsP(6)K3 displays 50 and 45% sequence identity to InsP(6)K1 and InsP(6)K2, respectively, with a smaller mass (46 kDa) and a more basic character than the other two enzymes. InsP(6)K3 is most enriched in the brain where its localization resembles InsP(6)K1 and InsP(6)K2. Intracellular disposition discriminates the three enzymes with InsP(6)K2 being exclusively nuclear, InsP(6)K3 predominating in the cytoplasm, and InsP(6)K1 displaying comparable nuclear and cytosolic densities.
Selective modulators of gamma-aminobutyric acid, type A (GABA(A)) receptors containing alpha(4) subunits may provide new treatments for epilepsy and premenstrual syndrome. Using mouse L(-tk) cells, we stably expressed the native GABA(A) receptor subunit combinations alpha(3)beta(3)gamma(2,) alpha(4)beta(3)gamma(2), and, for the first time, alpha(4)beta(3)delta and characterized their properties using a novel fluorescence resonance energy transfer assay of GABA-evoked depolarizations. GABA evoked concentration-dependent decreases in fluorescence resonance energy transfer that were blocked by GABA(A) receptor antagonists and, for alpha(3)beta(3)gamma(2) and alpha(4)beta(3)gamma(2) receptors, modulated by benzodiazepines with the expected subtype specificity. When combined with alpha(4) and beta(3), delta subunits, compared with gamma(2), conferred greater sensitivity to the agonists GABA, 4,5,6,7-tetrahydroisoxazolo-[5,4-c]pyridin-3-ol (THIP), and muscimol and greater maximal efficacy to THIP. alpha(4)beta(3)delta responses were markedly modulated by steroids and anesthetics. Alphaxalone, pentobarbital, and pregnanolone were all 3-7-fold more efficacious at alpha(4)beta(3)delta compared with alpha(4)beta(3)gamma(2.) The fluorescence technique used in this study has proven valuable for extensive characterization of a novel GABA(A) receptor. For GABA(A) receptors containing alpha(4) subunits, our experiments reveal that inclusion of delta instead of gamma(2) subunits can increase the affinity and in some cases the efficacy of agonists and can increase the efficacy of allosteric modulators. Pregnanolone was a particularly efficacious modulator of alpha(4)beta(3)delta receptors, consistent with a central role for this subunit combination in premenstrual syndrome.
At the neuromuscular synapse, synapse-specific gene expression is regulated by neuregulin, a motor neuron-derived factor, and involves participation of the muscle Ets transcription factors. However, the molecular mechanisms regulating expression and activity of the Ets transcription factors at the neuromuscular synapse are largely unknown. This study provides evidence that neuregulin induces expression of the skeletal muscle Ets-2 transcription factor. Recombinant neuregulin (neuregulin-1) induced RNA and protein expression of the Ets-2 transcription factor in L6 myotube cultures. Gene transfer experiments indicated that this neuregulin-elicited increase in Ets-2 expression resulted from enhanced transcription of the Ets-2 gene. Interestingly, electrophoretic mobility shift assays revealed binding activity of the Ets-2 protein to the previously identified neuregulin-response element of the synapse-specific nicotinic acetylcholine receptor epsilon-subunit gene. Taken together, these results identify skeletal muscle Ets-2 transcription factor as a novel target for neuregulin-dependent gene regulation, and suggest a role for this regulation in contributing to motor neuron-dependent control on synapse-specific gene expression at the neuromuscular synapse.

The aim of this study was to investigate whether the histamine H(1)- receptor blocker chlorpheniramine (CPA) and the histaminergic precursor L-histidine have reinforcing effects in goldfish (Carassius auratus). We used a place-preference procedure in a four-compartment aquarium in which, on the first day, the animals were placed for 30 min for habituation. On the second day, the time spent in each chamber was recorded for 10 min in order to determine which was preferred. After 24 h a non-transparent acrylic division was placed in the aquarium to make four identical compartments. The fish were injected intraperotoneally (i.p.) with L-histidine in three doses: 100, 250, and 500 mg/kg of body-weight (n=20) and with vehicle control (n=20). After 30 min the animals were placed in the intermediate preference chamber for another 30 min. The CPA was injected i.p in four doses; 0.4, 1.0, 4.0 or 8.0 mg/kg (n=16) or vehicle (n=16) and after 5 min the animals were placed in the intermediate preference chamber for another 30 min. On the fourth day the procedure of the second day was repeated. The results indicate that the group treated with 500 mg/kg L-histidine spent significantly more time in the paired compartment when compared with the time spent before treatment (Wilcoxon Signed Rank Test, P=0.0172). The same behavior was not observed in other treatment groups (P&gt;0.05). The results indicate a reinforcing effect of L-histidine in this place preference model with goldfish.


The basis for therapeutic strategies targeting the amyloid-beta protein (Abeta) has come from studies showing that accumulation and aggregation of the Abeta within the brain is likely to cause Alzheimer's disease (AD). Along with an ever-increasing understanding of Abeta metabolism, many potential therapeutic strategies aimed at altering Abeta metabolism have emerged. Among the more intriguing targets for therapy are enzymes involved in cholesterol homeostasis, because it has been found that altering cholesterol can influence Abeta metabolism in experimental model systems, and that cholesterol-lowering agents, specifically HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, could reduce the incidence of AD. It is likely that cholesterol influences Abeta metabolism in several ways, including altering Abeta production and perhaps altering Abeta deposition and clearance. Thus, pharmacological modulation of cholesterol levels could provide a relatively safe means to reduce Abeta accumulation in the brain, and thereby prevent or slow the development of AD.
Hepatoblastoma (HB) is a rare malignant embryonal liver tumor. Its pathogenesis has been associated with altered regulation of the IGF2 and H19 genes, and previous studies have suggested a correlation between abnormal methylation and altered expression of these genes in hepatoblastoma. Upregulation of the activity of the IGF2 promoter P3 has previously been shown to be tightly correlated with demethylation in hepatoblastoma. Here, we have used bisulfite genomic sequencing to characterize the methylation pattern of the IGF2 promoter P3 in the hepatoblastoma-derived cell line Hep T1, in the original tumor from which Hep T1 is derived, and in nude mouse xenografts of the Hep T1 cell line. The results show a clear difference in methylation pattern of the most proximal region of the IGF2 P3 promoter between the primary tumor, the cell line, and the xenografts. RNase protection and mRNA in situ hybridization revealed that variations in methylation patterns was paralleled by the levels of IGF2 P3 mRNA, which was detectable in the primary tumor and xenografts, but not in the cell line. Furthermore, it was demonstrated that H19 was reactivated and demethylated in the HepT1 cell line by 5-azaCytidine, in contrast to IGF2 P3, which was not demethylated or reactivated. We suggest that methylation of the proximal IGF2 P3 is important for its regulation.
Peripherin, a neuronal intermediate filament protein associated with axonal spheroids in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), induces the selective degeneration of motor neurons when overexpressed in transgenic mice. To further clarify the selectivity and mechanism of peripherin-induced neuronal death, we analyzed the effects of peripherin overexpression in primary neuronal cultures. Peripherin overexpression led to the formation of cytoplasmic protein aggregates and caused the death not only of motor neurons, but also of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons that were cultured from dissociated spinal cords of peripherin transgenic embryos. Apoptosis of DRG neurons containing peripherin aggregates was dependent on the proinflammatory central nervous system environment of spinal cultures, rich in activated microglia, and required TNF-alpha. This synergistic proapoptotic effect may contribute to neuronal selectivity in ALS.
p53 is a transcriptional activator which has been implicated as a key regulator of neuronal cell death after acute injury. We have shown previously that p53-mediated neuronal cell death involves a Bax-dependent activation of caspase 3; however, the transcriptional targets involved in the regulation of this process have not been identified. In the present study, we demonstrate that p53 directly upregulates Apaf1 transcription as a critical step in the induction of neuronal cell death. Using DNA microarray analysis of total RNA isolated from neurons undergoing p53-induced apoptosis a 5-6-fold upregulation of Apaf1 mRNA was detected. Induction of neuronal cell death by camptothecin, a DNA-damaging agent that functions through a p53-dependent mechanism, resulted in increased Apaf1 mRNA in p53-positive, but not p53-deficient neurons. In both in vitro and in vivo neuronal cell death processes of p53-induced cell death, Apaf1 protein levels were increased. We addressed whether p53 directly regulates Apaf1 transcription via the two p53 consensus binding sites in the Apaf1 promoter. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays demonstrated p53-DNA binding activity at both p53 consensus binding sequences in extracts obtained from neurons undergoing p53-induced cell death, but not in healthy control cultures or when p53 or the p53 binding sites were inactivated by mutation. In transient transfections in a neuronal cell line with p53 and Apaf1 promoter-luciferase constructs, p53 directly activated the Apaf1 promoter via both p53 sites. The importance of Apaf1 as a p53 target gene in neuronal cell death was evaluated by examining p53-induced apoptotic pathways in primary cultures of Apaf1-deficient neurons. Neurons treated with camptothecin were significantly protected in the absence of Apaf1 relative to those derived from wild-type littermates. Together, these results demonstrate that Apaf1 is a key transcriptional target for p53 that plays a pivotal role in the regulation of apoptosis after neuronal injury.
Recently, formal standards for the management of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) have been proposed by the American Academy of Neurology (AAN). However, there are few information about the actual care of ALS. We have assessed the management of ALS in Italy in various clinical settings, on basis of a self-reported questionnaire. Thirty-six out of the 80 Italian ALS neurological departments with a particular interest in ALS care answered the questionnaire. The centers were subdivided according the mean number of patients currently followed-up (&gt; or =30 vs. &lt;30). An integrated health-care team for ALS existed in all large centers but only in 14% of small centers (p=0.0001). Diagnosis was communicated to most but not all patients. Symptomatic therapies were generally offered to patients in all centers. Nutritional interventions, including percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG), were proposed by most centers, but the percentage of patients who underwent PEG was significantly higher in large centers (p=0.04). Respiratory management seemed to be lacking both in large and in small centers since non-invasive positive pressure ventilation (NIPPV) was proposed by only 70% of large and 50% of small centers; however, the percentage of patients who underwent NIPPV was significantly higher in large centers (p=0.03). Moreover, the discussion of respiratory issues was performed quite late in the course of the disease, usually when the patients have first respiratory symptoms. Therefore, there are considerable opportunities to improve the care of ALS patients in Italy, primarily through the education of neurologists on AAN standards of care for ALS.
The parotid glands and part of the submandibular glands were irradiated in 18 amyotrophic lateral sclerosis patients with very advanced disease and severe drooling problems. In a prospective study, a single dosage of 7.0-7.5 Gy was administered bilateral to the larger part of the parotid glands and the posterior parts of the submandibular glands. Salivary secretion rate was assayed before and after radiotherapy. Sixteen out of eighteen patients reported satisfactory to good reduction in drooling lasting up to 4-6 months, 1/18 developed xerostomia and needed saliva substitutes, and 1/18 reported no effect. Caregivers reported positive effect in all patients. The procedure was well tolerated with few side effects. Low dosage external radiotherapy of the salivary glands is effective in reducing drooling satisfactorily in ALS patients, especially in well-hydrated patients.
The pathogenic mechanism of selective loss of motor neurones in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is still poorly understood. Recently, research evidence has suggested that mitochondrial dysfunction occurs in central nervous system as well as in peripheral tissues from ALS patients. The aim of our study was to indirectly investigate in vivo oxidative metabolism of exercising muscle in a case history of patients affected by ALS. To this purpose 11 patients, 8 male and 3 female, mean age+/-SD: 52.4+/-11.1 years, performed a bicycle incremental test for the assessment of lactate production. At rest, there was increased lactate concentration in patients: 2.77+/-0.79 vs. 1.48+/-0.49 mmol/l in normal controls (normal range: 0.67-2.47 mmol/l). Analysis of lactate curve during exercise showed a lactate production increase compared to controls. Furthermore, anaerobic lactate threshold was detected at 40-50% of the predicted normal power output, anticipated with respect to both normal subjects and non-ALS chronically denervated controls with comparable motor impairment (60-70%), suggesting that mitochondrial dysfunction can occur in exercising skeletal muscle from ALS patients.
Overexpression of mutated superoxide dismutase (SOD1) in transgenic mice causes a progressive motor neuron degeneration in the spinal cord similar to that in human amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Ultrastructural analysis of motor neurons at different stages of the disease in transgenic C57BL/6 mice carrying the G93A mutation of SOD1 showed, at about 2 weeks of age, much earlier than the initial symptoms of the disease, microvacuoles in the cytoplasm, with marked swelling of the mitochondria. Nuclei with an apoptotic morphology were never observed in these motor neurons. Swollen mitochondria were also seen in the distal part of motor axons of phrenic nerves and in the large axons of sciatic nerves before the onset of the disease, but no mitochondrial alterations were seen in skeletal muscles or in the small sciatic nerve axons. Moreover, we found no apparent changes in the histochemical reactivity of cytochrome oxidase in motor neurons of transgenic mice even at the advanced stage of the disease, suggesting that partial neuronal activity in these cells may be maintained despite the altered mitochondria. Immunoreactivity for human SOD1 was high around vacuoles in the motor neurons of transgenic mice but no cytoplasmic intracellular SOD1 aggregates were observed. Our data indicate that mitochondrial swelling may be an important factor triggering the cascade leading to progressive motor neuron death. Activation of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore may be involved in this process, through excitotoxicity or other neurotoxic stimuli.
Ephaptic coupling refers to interactions between neurons mediated by current flow through the extracellular space. Ephaptic interactions between axons are considered negligible, because of the relatively large extracellular space and the layers of myelin that separate most axons. By contrast, olfactory nerve axons are unmyelinated and arranged in tightly packed bundles, features that may enhance ephaptic coupling. We tested the hypothesis that ephaptic interactions occur in the mammalian olfactory nerve with the use of a computational approach. Numerical solutions of models of axon fascicles show that significant ephaptic interactions occur for a range of physiologically relevant parameters. An action potential in a single axon can evoke action potentials in all other axons in the fascicle. Ephaptic interactions can also lead to synchronized firing of independently stimulated axons. Our findings suggest that ephaptic interactions may be significant determinants of the olfactory code and that such interactions may occur in other, similarly organized axonal or dendritic bundles.
Oxytocin (OT) knock-out mice fail to recognize familiar conspecifics after repeated social exposures, despite normal olfactory and spatial learning abilities. OT treatment fully restores social recognition. Here we demonstrate that OT acts in the medial amygdala during the initial exposure to facilitate social recognition. OT given before, but not after, the initial encounter restores social recognition in OT knock-out mice. Using c-Fos immunoreactivity (Fos-IR) as a marker of neuronal activation in this initial encounter, we found similar neuronal activation in the wild-type (WT) and OT knock-out mouse in olfactory bulbs, piriform cortex, cortical amygdala, and the lateral septum. Wild-type, but not OT knock-out mice exhibited an induction of Fos-IR in the medial amygdala. Projections sites of the medial amygdala also failed to show a Fos-IR induction in the OT knock-out mice. OT knock-out, but not WT, mice showed dramatic increases in Fos-IR in the somatosensory cortex and the hippocampus, suggesting alternative processing of social cues in these animals. With site-specific injections of OT and an OT antagonist, we demonstrate that OT receptor activation in the medial amygdala is both necessary and sufficient for social recognition in the mouse.
In pyramidal cells, induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) of excitatory synaptic transmission by coincidence of presynaptic and postsynaptic activity is considered relevant to learning processes in vivo. Here we show that temporally correlated spiking activity of a pyramidal cell and an inhibiting interneuron may cause LTD or LTP of unitary IPSPs. Polarity of change in synaptic efficacy depends on timing between Ca(2+) influx induced by a backpropagating train of action potentials (APs) in pyramidal cell dendrites (10 APs, 50 Hz) and subsequent activation of inhibitory synapses. LTD of IPSPs was induced by synaptic activation in the vicinity of the AP train (&lt;300 msec relative to the beginning of the train), whereas LTP of IPSPs was initiated with more remote synaptic activation (&gt;400 msec relative to the beginning of the AP train). Solely AP trains induced neither LTP nor LTD. Both LTP and LTD were prevented by 5 mm BAPTA loaded into pyramidal cells. LTD was prevented by 5 mm EGTA, whereas EGTA failed to affect LTP. Synaptic plasticity was not dependent on activation of GABA(B) receptors. It was also not affected by the antagonists of vesicular exocytosis, botulinum toxin D, and GDP-beta-S.
To investigate the contribution of topographically organized brain areas to tactile working memory, we asked human subjects to compare the frequency of two vibrations presented to the same fingertip or to different fingertips. The vibrations ranged from 14 to 24 Hz and were separated by a retention interval of variable length. For intervals &lt;1 sec, subjects were accurate when both vibrations were delivered to the same fingertip but were less accurate when the two vibrations were delivered to different fingertips. For 1 or 2 sec intervals, subjects performed equally well when comparing vibrations delivered either to the same finger or to corresponding fingers on opposite hands, but they performed poorly when the vibrations were delivered to distant fingers on either hand. These results suggest that working memory resides within a topographic framework. As a further test, we performed an experiment in which the two comparison vibrations were presented to the same fingertip but an interference vibration was presented during the retention interval. The interpolated vibration disrupted accuracy most when delivered to the same finger as the comparison vibrations and had progressively less effect when delivered to more distant fingers. We conclude that topographically organized regions of somatosensory cortex contribute to tactile working memory, possibly by holding the memory trace across the retention interval. One stimulus can be accurately compared with the memory of a previous stimulus if they engage overlapping representations, but activation of the common cortical territory by an interpolated stimulus can disrupt the memory trace.
The amygdaloid complex is a prominent temporal lobe region that is associated with &quot;emotional&quot; information processing. Studies in the rodent have also recently implicated the amygdala in the processing and modulation of pain sensation, the experience of which involves a considerable emotional component in humans. In the present study, we sought to establish the relevance of the amygdala to pain modulation in humans by investigating the contribution of this region to antinociceptive processes in nonhuman primates. Using magnetic resonance imaging guidance, the amygdaloid complex was lesioned bilaterally in six rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) through microinjection of the neurotoxin ibotenic acid. This procedure resulted in substantial neuronal cell loss in all nuclear subdivisions of this structure. In awake unoperated control monkeys, systemic administration of the prototypical opioid morphine or the cannabinoid receptor agonist WIN55,212-2 produced dose-dependent antinociception on a warm-water tail-withdrawal assay. The antinociceptive effects of each drug were reversible with an appropriate antagonist. In monkeys with bilateral amygdala lesions, however, the antinociceptive effects of each drug were significantly reduced. These results constitute the first causal data demonstrating the necessity of neurons in a specific brain region for the full expression of opioid- and cannabinoid-induced antinociception in the primate. Because our amygdala-lesioned monkeys exhibited both a reduction in antinociception and a reduction in behavioral indices of fear (Emery et al., 2001), the possibility should be considered that, in the primate, &quot;antinociceptive circuitry&quot; and &quot;fear circuitry&quot; overlap at the level of the amygdala.
Hypoxic encephalopathy is the most common cause of neonatal seizures and can lead to chronic epilepsy. In rats at postnatal days 10-12 (P10-12), global hypoxia induces spontaneous seizures and chronically decreases seizure threshold, thus mimicking clinical aspects of neonatal hypoxia. We have shown previously that the acute and chronic epileptogenic effects of hypoxia are age-dependent and require AMPA receptor activation. In this study, we aimed to determine whether hypoxia-induced seizures and epileptogenesis are associated with maturational and seizure-induced changes in AMPA receptor composition and function. Northern and Western blots indicated that glutamate receptor 2 (GluR2) mRNA and protein expression were significantly lower in neocortex and hippocampus at P10-12 compared with adult. After hypoxia-induced seizures at P10, GluR2 mRNA was significantly decreased within 48 hr, and GluR2 protein was significantly decreased within 96 hr. AMPA-induced Co(2+) uptake by neurons in hippocampal slices indicated higher expression of Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA receptors in immature pyramidal neurons compared with adult. In slices obtained 96 hr after hypoxia-induced seizures, AMPA-induced Co(2+) uptake was significantly increased compared with age-matched controls, and field recordings revealed increased tetanus-induced afterdischarges that could be kindled in the absence of NMDA receptor activation. In situ end labeling showed no acute or delayed cell death after hypoxia-induced seizures. Our results indicate that susceptibility to hypoxia-induced seizures occurs during a developmental stage in which the expression of Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA receptors is relatively high. Furthermore, perinatal hypoxia-induced seizures induce increased expression of Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA receptors and an increased capacity for AMPA receptor-mediated epileptogenesis without inducing cell death.
Action potentials are a universal currency for fast information transfer in the nervous system, yet few studies address how some spikes carry more information than others. We focused on the transformation of sensory representations in the lemniscal (high-fidelity) auditory thalamocortical network. While stimulating with a complex sound, we recorded simultaneously from functionally connected cell pairs in the ventral medial geniculate body and primary auditory cortex. Thalamic action potentials that immediately preceded or potentially caused a cortical spike were more selective than the average thalamic spike for spectrotemporal stimulus features. This net improvement of thalamic signaling indicates that for some thalamic cells, spikes are not propagated through cortex independently but interact with other inputs onto the same target cell. We then developed a method to identify the spectrotemporal nature of these interactions and found that they could be cooperative or antagonistic to the average receptive field of the thalamic cell. The degree of cooperativity with the thalamic cell determined the increase in feature selectivity for potentially causal thalamic spikes. We therefore show how some thalamic spikes carry more receptive field information than average and how other inputs cooperate to constrain the information communicated through a cortical cell.
Musashi1 (Msi1) is a mammalian neural RNA-binding protein highly enriched in neural precursor cells that are capable of generating both neurons and glia during embryonic and postnatal CNS development. Here, we identified Musashi2 (Msi2), a novel mammalian RNA-binding protein that exhibits high sequence similarity to Msi1. The Msi2 transcript appeared to be distributed ubiquitously in a wide variety of tissues, consistent with the mRNA distribution of its Xenopus homolog, xrp1. However, the present study revealed cell type-specific and developmentally regulated expression of Msi2 in the mammalian CNS. Interestingly, Msi2 was expressed prominently in precursor cells in the ventricular zone and subventricular zone with the same pattern as Msi1 throughout CNS development. In the postnatal and adult CNS, this concurrent expression of Msi2 and Msi1 was seen in cells of the astrocyte lineage, including ependymal cells, a possible source for postnatal CNS stem cells. During neurogenesis, the expression of both Msi2 and Msi1 was lost in most postmitotic neurons, whereas Msi2 expression persisted in a subset of neuronal lineage cells, such as parvalbumin-containing GABA neurons in the neocortex and neurons in several nuclei of the basal ganglia. Msi2 may have a unique role that is required for the generation and/or maintenance of specific neuronal lineages. Furthermore, in vitro studies showed that Msi2 and Msi1 have similar RNA-binding specificity. These two RNA-binding proteins may exert common functions in neural precursor cells by regulating gene expression at the post-transcriptional level.
Synapsins are major neuronal phosphoproteins involved in regulation of neurotransmitter release. Synapsins are well established targets for multiple protein kinases within the nerve terminal, yet little is known about dephosphorylation processes involved in regulation of synapsin function. Here, we observed a reciprocal relationship in the phosphorylation-dephosphorylation of the established phosphorylation sites on synapsin I. We demonstrate that, in vitro, phosphorylation sites 1, 2, and 3 of synapsin I (P-site 1 phosphorylated by cAMP-dependent protein kinase; P-sites 2 and 3 phosphorylated by Ca(2+)-calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II) were excellent substrates for protein phosphatase 2A, whereas P-sites 4, 5, and 6 (phosphorylated by mitogen-activated protein kinase) were efficiently dephosphorylated only by Ca(2+)-calmodulin-dependent protein phosphatase 2B-calcineurin. In isolated nerve terminals, rapid changes in synapsin I phosphorylation were observed after Ca(2+) entry, namely, a Ca(2+)-dependent phosphorylation of P-sites 1, 2, and 3 and a Ca(2+)-dependent dephosphorylation of P-sites 4, 5, and 6. Inhibition of calcineurin activity by cyclosporin A resulted in a complete block of Ca(2+)-dependent dephosphorylation of P-sites 4, 5, and 6 and correlated with a prominent increase in ionomycin-evoked glutamate release. These two opposing, rapid, Ca(2+)-dependent processes may play a crucial role in the modulation of synaptic vesicle trafficking within the presynaptic terminal.
We have shown previously that process-bearing GFAP+ astrocytes freshly isolated from rat hippocampus CA1 and CA3 regions are heterogeneous in ion channel expression and K(+) uptake capabilities, such that two distinct populations of astrocytes can be described (Zhou and Kimelberg, 2000). In the present study, we report that glutamate transporter (GT) currents can only be measured from one type of these freshly isolated hippocampal CA1 astrocytes [variably rectifying astrocytes (VRAs)] but were not detectable in the second type of astrocyte [outwardly rectifying astrocytes (ORAs)]. The GT currents showed a strict Na(+) dependency and high affinity for glutamate (EC(50) of 4 +/- 1.1 microm). The astrocytes lacking GT currents (ORAs) showed an AMPA receptor current density (55 pA/pF) that was 42-fold higher than VRAs (1.3 pA/pF). In contrast, the GABA(A) currents were of comparable current density in both types. The specificity of these differences makes it unlikely that they are attributable to preparative damage. Therefore, these findings strongly indicate that, within a single region of the hippocampus, GFAP+ astrocytes comprise a functionally diverse population that are qualitatively different in their functional glutamate transporter and quantitatively different in their functional AMPA receptor expression. This heterogeneity implies that GFAP+ astrocytes may participate in or modulate glutamate synaptic transmission differently.
Integrated circuits (ICs) containing cross-point switch arrays were applied to create analog input selector switch devices for multi-channel electrophysiological experiments. The described analog input selector switch devices make it possible to connect to the main amplifier's inputs those microelectrode and preamplifier output wires that yield unit discharges of acceptable shape and amplitude, or yield other kind of acceptable electrophysiological signals (EEG, EP). This kind of selector allows to use higher number of preamplifier channels and to ignore the input channels without adequate signals or the channels with noisy inputs. No manual switching is required, as the work is done by computer controlled switches. The switch positions can be saved and reloaded at the next experimental session through an I/O port (e.g. the parallel port) of the computer.
The injection of sterile latex microspheres into the anterior chamber of the eye is presented as a simple and cost effective method for inducing chronic elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP) and experimental glaucoma in primates. The microspheres produce elevated IOP primarily by restricting the outflow of aqueous humor through the trabecular meshwork located in the chamber angle. Different levels and durations of elevated IOP can be obtained by altering the frequency and number of microspheres injected. In comparison with other primate models of experimental glaucoma, the approach described here has the advantages of producing chronic elevations of IOP without the need for expensive ophthalmic equipment and personnel, surgical intervention or intraocular inflammation, and without compromising visibility of the optic disc, which is necessary for clinical assessment of the onset and progression of the disease.
There is considerable interest in utilizing the intracerebroventricular (icv) route of administration of antibodies in the brain for various studies and for the therapy of malignancies, but very little is known about the anatomic extent of distribution of the antibody in brain after injection into the third ventricle. To explore the potential for icv administration of antiamyloid-beta peptide (Abeta) in reducing Abeta toxicity in brain in Alzheimer's disease, we first mapped the time course and path of transit of horseradish peroxidase (HRP)-labeled antibody. The results show that, after a single injection into the mouse third venticle, the HRP-labeled antibody is localized within the microvasculature, first that of the corticohippocampal region close to the site of injection at 3 hr. By 24 hr, the antibody is distributed throughout the hippocampus and frontoparietal cortex close to the injection site, as well as in the deep and outer cerebral cortex and cerebellar cortex remote from the injection site. The injected antibody is almost entirely removed by 4 days. Therefore, the antibody had diffused throughout all the brain by 24 hr, showing the feasibility of small quantities of anti-Abeta antibody infused into the third ventricle to reach extracellular epitopes throughout the brain parenchyma rapidly.
Focal injection of the sodium channel blocker tetrodotoxin (TTX) into the injury site at either 5 or 15 min after a standardized thoracic contusion spinal cord injury (SCI) reduces white matter pathology and loss of axons in the first 24 hr after injury. Focal injection of TTX at 15 min after SCI also reduces chronic white matter loss and hindlimb functional deficits. We have now tested the hypothesis that the reduction in chronic deficits with TTX treatment is associated with long-term preservation of axons after SCI and compared both acute (24 hr) and chronic (6 weeks) effects of TTX administered at 15 min prior to and 5 min or 4 hr after SCI. Our results indicate a significant reduction of acute white matter pathology in rats treated with TTX at 15 min before and 5 min after injury but no effect when treatment was delayed until 4 hr after contusion. Compared with injury controls, groups treated with TTX at 5 min and 4 hr after injury did not show a significant deficit reduction, nor was there a significant sparing of white matter at 6 weeks compared with injury controls. In contrast, the group treated with TTX at 15 min before SCI demonstrated significantly reduced hindlimb functional deficits beginning at 1 week after injury and throughout the 6 weeks of the study. This was associated with a significantly higher axon density in the ventromedial white matter at 6 weeks. The results demonstrate that blockade of sodium channels preserves axons from loss after SCI and points to the importance of time of administration of such drugs for therapeutic effectiveness.
1. Nodose ganglion neurones (NGNs) become less excitable following section of the vagus nerve. To determine the role of sodium currents (I(Na)) in these changes, standard patch-clamp recording techniques were used to measure I(Na) in rat NGNs maintained in vivo for 5-6 days following vagotomy, and then in vitro for 2-9 h. 2. Total I(Na) and I(Na) density in vagotomized NGNs were similar to control values. However, steady-state I(Na) inactivation in vagotomized NGNs was shifted -9 mV relative to control values (V(1/2), -74 +/- 2 vs. -65 +/- 2 mV, P &lt; 0.01) and I(Na) activation was shifted by -7 mV (V(1/2), -21 +/- 2 vs. -14 +/- 2 mV, P &lt; 0.006). I(Na) recovery from inactivation was also slower in vagotomized NGNs (fast time constant, 2.8 +/- 0.4 vs. 1.6 +/- 0.3 ms, P &lt; 0.02). 3. The fraction of I(Na) resistant to 1 microM tetrodotoxin (TTX-R) was halved in vagotomized NGNs (21 +/- 8 vs. 56 +/- 8 % of total I(Na), P &lt; 0.05). This change from TTX-R I(Na) to TTX-sensitive (TTX-S) I(Na) may explain altered I(Na) activation, inactivation and repriming in vagotomized NGNs. 4. The contribution of alterations in I(Na) to NGN firing patterns was assessed by measuring I(Na) evoked by a series of action potential (AP) waveforms. In general, control NGNs produced large, repetitive TTX-R I(Na) while vagotomized NGNs produced smaller TTX-S I(Na) that rapidly inactivated during AP discharge. We conclude that TTX-R I(Na) is important for sustained AP discharge in NGNs, and that its diminution underlies the decreased AP discharge of vagotomized NGNs.
1. The signal transduction pathway responsible for cAMP-dependent Ca2+-induced Ca2+ release (CICR) from endoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ stores was assessed in the insulin-secreting cell line INS-1. 2. CICR was triggered by the GLP-1 receptor agonist exendin-4, an effect mimicked by caffeine, Sp-cAMPS or forskolin. CICR required influx of Ca2+ through L-type voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels, and was blocked by treatment with nimodipine, thapsigargin, or ryanodine, but not by the IP3 receptor antagonist xestospongin C. 3. Treatment with the cAMP antagonist 8-Br-Rp-cAMPS blocked CICR in response to exendin-4, whereas the PKA inhibitor H-89 was ineffective when tested at a concentration demonstrated to inhibit PKA-dependent gene expression. 4. RT-PCR of INS-1 cells demonstrated expression of mRNA coding for the type-II isoform of cAMP-regulated guanine nucleotide exchange factor (cAMP-GEF-II, Epac2). 5. CICR in response to forskolin was blocked by transient transfection and expression of a dominant negative mutant isoform of cAMP-GEF-II in which inactivating mutations were introduced into the exchange factor's two cAMP-binding domains. 6. It is concluded that CICR in INS-1 cells results from GLP-1 receptor-mediated sensitization of the intracellular Ca2+ release mechanism, a signal transduction pathway independent of PKA, but which requires cAMP-GEF-II.
The clinical approach to the patient with a suspected disorder of memory and intellect is to establish whether it is dementia, which parts of the brain are affected, what is the cause, what is the prognosis, and what can be done about it. The diagnosis of dementia usually requires the involvement of memory and at least one other cognitive system. Delirium and depression are important differential diagnoses. Patients with dementia should usually have some simple investigations after a careful history-taking and examination to identify &quot;reversible&quot; causes. The commonest cause of dementia is Alzheimer's disease, in which short-term memory disturbance is usually prominent. Other causes of dementia include cerebrovascular disease, Lewy-body disease and Pick's disease. There is now hope for patients with Alzheimer's disease (which can be treated with some success with cholinesterase inhibitors) and patients with vascular dementia, in whom aggressive control of causal risk factors may retard progression.


Substance P activation of neurokinin-1 (NK1) receptors on spinal sympathetic preganglionic neurons (SPN) influences blood pressure. We identified SPN likely to subserve the baroreceptor reflex and established if these neurons showed NK1 receptor-immunoreactivity. Nitroprusside (NP) infusion or inferior vena cava (IVC) constriction activated similar numbers of SPN. Of these, about 40% were NK1 receptor-immunoreactive after NP infusion, but only about 20% were NK1 receptor-immunoreactive after IVC constriction. The distribution of Fos/NK1 receptor SPN suggested that substance P may preferentially target sympathoadrenal SPN.
Ethanol and cocaine are frequently co-abused, and the drug combination has been reported to produce an increased and prolonged subjective euphoria as compared to when either drug is administered alone. Acute administration of ethanol or cocaine increases the extracellular dopamine (DA) concentration in the nucleus accumbens (NAcc), a terminal region of the mesolimbic dopaminergic pathway. In the present study, the effects of separate and concurrent administration of cocaine and ethanol on DA concentrations in the NAcc were studied in rats pretreated with ethanol. Four groups of rats received either ethanol (2 g/kg, i.p.) or saline twice daily for 6 consecutive days. Thereafter, rats were given injections of saline or cocaine for another 2 days (i.e. treatment days 7 and 8) using a 'binge' administration pattern (three i.p. injections of 15 mg/kg each with 1-h interval starting 40 min after the first of the two daily doses of ethanol/saline). Stereotypic behavior was scored after each 'binge' of cocaine or saline on days 7 and 8. The DA and DA metabolite concentrations were measured using microdialysis on day 8. Ethanol enhanced the effect of cocaine on DA concentration in the NAcc as compared to a single administration of cocaine. The DA levels increased and reached their maximum values within 20-40 min after the cocaine administration, then gradually declined until the next injection 1-h later. Cocaine-induced stereotypic behavior was significantly increased in both saline and ethanol pretreated groups, though there was no significant difference between the two groups. The results of this study suggest that the enhanced DA transmission may be related to the experience produced by concurrent abuse of ethanol and cocaine in humans.
The gerbil social interaction test has previously detected anxiolytic effects of nicotine and diazepam. In the present study, the high affinity substance P (NK(1)) receptor antagonist L-760735 (3 mg/kg) significantly increased the time spent in social interaction, whereas its low affinity analogue L-781773 (3 mg/kg) was without effect. Diazepam (0.1 mg/kg) and the 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist 8-OH-DPAT (0.003 and 0.01 mg/kg) also increased social interaction, whereas an acute dose of the selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor fluoxetine (10 mg/kg) decreased the time spent in social interaction. Diazepam (0.1 mg/kg) significantly increased locomotor activity, but this effect was independent of the increase in social interaction. The other drugs tested were without effect on locomotor activity. The present findings suggest that the gerbil social interaction may well provide a useful assay for detecting both anxiolytic and anxiogenic compounds, and suggests that the high affinity NK(1) receptor antagonist L-760735 may prove to be useful as an anxiolytic therapy.
Purinoceptors are present in the cell bodies as well as in both peripheral and central terminals of many sensory neurons, where they may play a role in sensory transmission, including pain. After peripheral nerve injury at the spinal nerve level, some axotomized afferent neurons develop ongoing discharges (ectopic discharges) that originate in the dorsal root ganglion (DRG). In the present study, we attempted to determine whether or not purinergic sensitivity develops in injured sensory neurons which display ectopic discharges, as well as in silent units. The L(4) and L(5) spinal nerves were ligated in Sprague-Dawley rats. Four to 21 days after the surgery, the DRGs with attached dorsal roots and spinal nerves were removed and ectopic discharges were recorded from teased dorsal root fascicles using an in vitro recording set-up. The results showed that 75.6 and 65.1% of the chronically axotomized DRG neurons displaying ectopic discharges enhanced their activity after application of adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP, 1 mM) or alpha,beta-methylene ATP (mATP, 100 microM), respectively. In addition, application of these purinoceptor agonists evoked activity in 7 of 28 axotomized DRG neurons, which did not show ongoing discharges. In contrast, only 1 of 34 DRG neurons acutely isolated from normal rats (no previous spinal nerve ligation) responded to either mATP or ATP. In most of the tested units, mATP-induced enhancement of ectopic discharges was blocked by non-specific P2X receptor antagonists, PPADS or suramin. The data from the present study suggest that purinergic sensitivity develops in DRG neurons after chronic axotomy and that this purinergic sensitivity is likely to be mediated by P2X purinoceptors. This acquired purinergic sensitivity may play an important functional role in the enhancement of ectopic discharges and exacerbation of pain upon sympathetic activation in the neuropathic pain state.
The present study was aimed at identifying the receptor systems involved in the mediation of the sedative/hypnotic effect of gamma-hydroxybutyric acid (GHB) in DBA mice. Administration of the putative antagonist of the GHB binding site, 6,7,8,9-tetrahydro-5-hydroxy-5H-benzocyclohept-6-ylideneacetic acid (NCS-382; 50-500 mg/kg, i.p.), significantly increased the duration of loss of righting reflex induced by GHB (1000 mg/kg, i.p.). In contrast, the GABA(B) receptor antagonists, (2S)(+)-5,5-dimethyl-2-morpholineacetic acid (SCH 50911; 25-100 mg/kg, i.p.) and (3-aminopropyl)(cyclohexylmethyl)phosphinic acid (CGP 46381; 12.5-150 mg/kg, i.p.), completely prevented the sedative/hypnotic effect of GHB. SCH 50911 (100 and 300 mg/kg, i.p.) was also capable to readily reverse the sedative/hypnotic effect of GHB (1000 mg/kg, i.p.) in mice that had lost the righting reflex. SCH 50911 (100 mg/kg, i.p.) also completely abolished the sedative/hypnotic effect of the GABA(B) receptor agonist, baclofen. These results indicate that the sedative/hypnotic effect of GHB is mediated by the stimulation of GABA(B) receptors and add further support to the hypothesis that the GABA(B) receptor constitutes a central site of action of GHB.
Purinoceptors have been shown to be important in mediating Ca(2+) signalling in glial cells and it has been proposed that they may have a role in their response to injury. To investigate this, the glial response to adenosine 5'triphosphate (ATP) was measured in situ, in optic nerves from juvenile rats that were enucleated at postnatal day (P) 1; age-matched normal nerves were used as controls. The optic nerve is a typical central nervous system (CNS) white matter tract containing axons and glial cells, but not neurones or synapses. Following neonatal enucleation, axons degenerate and oligodendrocytes do not develop, so that the optic nerve is populated predominantly by reactive astrocytes, with a minor population of activated microglia. Application of 1 mM ATP evoked a large and rapid increase in glial [Ca(2+)](i) in fura-2 ratiometric whole nerve recordings from normal and gliotic axon-free nerves. Significantly, the response to ATP had a prolonged duration in gliotic axon-free nerves and there was as shift in the agonist rank order of potency from ATP = ADP &gt; UTP &gt; alpha,beta-metATP to ATP &gt; ADP = UTP = alpha,beta-metATP. The results indicate an in situ role for ATP signalling in reactive astrocytes, via metabotropic P2Y(1) and P2Y(2/4) purinoceptors and ionotropic P2X purinoreceptors. The change in the purinoceptor profile following axon degeneration suggests a special role for P2X purinoceptors in mediating the glial reaction to CNS injury.
Anticipatory smooth pursuit eye movements cannot normally be generated in the absence of a moving target. However, repeated presentation of identical target motion stimuli, preceded by warning cues, leads to the build up of anticipatory smooth pursuit prior to target onset. These anticipatory responses arguably depend more on motor habit than cognitive expectations. Here, we show that directional cues, concomitant with a timing cue, may be used to initiate predictive (velocity scaled) movements in response to target stimuli of random direction. Furthermore, we show stored velocity and timing information may be directionally transferred, thus allowing predictive movements in a novel direction. This demonstrates the internal origin of these movements and their volitional as opposed to reflexive nature.
Increases in the intracellular concentration of calcium ([Ca2+]i) activate various signaling pathways that lead to the expression of genes that are essential for dendritic development, neuronal survival, and synaptic plasticity. The mode of Ca2+ entry into a neuron plays a key role in determining which signaling pathways are activated and thus specifies the cellular response to Ca2+. Ca2+ influx through L-type voltage-activated channels (LTCs) is particularly effective at activating transcription factors such as CREB and MEF-2. We developed a functional knock-in technique to investigate the features of LTCs that specifically couple them to the signaling pathways that regulate gene expression. We found that an isoleucine-glutamine (&quot;IQ&quot;) motif in the carboxyl terminus of the LTC that binds Ca2+-calmodulin (CaM) is critical for conveying the Ca2+ signal to the nucleus. Ca2+-CaM binding to the LTC was necessary for activation of the Ras/mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway, which conveys local Ca2+ signals from the mouth of the LTC to the nucleus. CaM functions as a local Ca2+ sensor at the mouth of the LTC that activates the MAPK pathway and leads to the stimulation of genes that are essential for neuronal survival and plasticity.
Faces are visual objects in our environment that provide strong social cues, with the eyes assuming particular importance. Here we show that the perceived attractiveness of an unfamiliar face increases brain activity in the ventral striatum of the viewer when meeting the person's eye, and decreases activity when eye gaze is directed away. Depending on the direction of gaze, attractiveness can thus activate dopaminergic regions that are strongly linked to reward prediction, indicating that central reward systems may be engaged during the initiation of social interactions.
One of the brain's fundamental tasks is to construct and transform representations of an animal's environment, yet few studies describe how individual neurons accomplish this. Our results from correlated pairs in the auditory thalamocortical system show that cortical excitatory receptive field regions can be directly inherited from thalamus, constructed from smaller inputs, and assembled by the cooperative activity of neuronal ensembles. The prevalence of functional thalamocortical connectivity is strictly governed by tonotopy, but connection strength is not. Finally, spectral and temporal modulation preferences in cortex may differ dramatically from the thalamic input. Our observations reveal a radical reconstruction of response properties from auditory thalamus to cortex, and illustrate how some properties are propagated with great fidelity while others are significantly transformed or generated intracortically.
Cortical pyramidal cells fire single spikes and complex spike bursts. However, neither the conditions necessary for triggering complex spikes, nor their computational function are well understood. CA1 pyramidal cell burst activity was examined in behaving rats. The fraction of bursts was not reliably higher in place field centers, but rather in places where discharge frequency was 6-7 Hz. Burst probability was lower and bursts were shorter after recent spiking activity than after prolonged periods of silence (100 ms-1 s). Burst initiation probability and burst length were correlated with extracellular spike amplitude and with intracellular action potential rising slope. We suggest that bursts may function as &quot;conditional synchrony detectors,&quot; signaling strong afferent synchrony after neuronal silence, and that single spikes triggered by a weak input may suppress bursts evoked by a subsequent strong input.
Two papers in this issue of Neuron examine new aspects of Semaphorin signaling via Plexin receptors. Winberg et al. present evidence that the transmembrane protein Off-track (OTK) interacts biochemically and genetically with Plexin A and is important for Sema 1a repulsive signaling. Hu et al. examine the coupling of Plexin B to Rac and RhoA and propose that Plexin B signaling involves inhibition of Rac function by direct sequestration and simultaneous activation of RhoA.
Depersonalisation disorder may occur during severe anxiety or following a traumatic event, suggesting a possible role of stress hormones. This study investigated basal activity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis in patients with depersonalisation disorder. Salivary cortisol levels were measured at four time points over 12 h in patients with depersonalisation disorder (N=13), major depressive disorder (MDD, N=14) and healthy controls (N=13). Beck Depression Inventory scores were significantly higher in depersonalised subjects than controls, while MDD subjects demonstrated higher scores than both groups. Basal cortisol levels of depersonalised subjects were significantly lower than those of MDD subjects but not healthy controls. These results point to reduced basal activity of the HPA axis in depersonalisation disorder. This pilot study supports the distinction between depersonalisation disorder and major depressive disorder which should be examined in a larger sample.



Two of the primary cues used to localize the sources of sounds are interaural level differences (ILDs) and interaural time differences (ITDs). We conducted two experiments to explore how practice affects the human discrimination of values of ILDs and ongoing ITDs presented over headphones. We measured discrimination thresholds of 13 to 32 naive listeners in a variety of conditions during a pretest and again, 2 weeks later, during a posttest. Between those two tests, we trained a subset of listeners 1 h per day for 9 days on a single ILD or ITD condition. Listeners improved on both ILD and ITD discrimination. Improvement was initially rapid for both cue types and appeared to generalize broadly across conditions, indicating conceptual or procedural learning. A subsequent slower-improvement stage, which occurred solely for the ILD cue, only affected conditions with the trained stimulus frequency, suggesting that stimulus processing had fundamentally changed. These different learning patterns indicate that practice affects the attention to, or low-level encoding of, ILDs and ITDs at sites at which the two cue types are processed separately. Thus, these data reveal differences in the effect of practice on ILD and ITD discrimination, and provide insight into the encoding of these two cues to sound-source location in humans.
Neural receptive fields are plastic: with experience, neurons in many brain regions change their spiking responses to relevant stimuli. Analysis of receptive field plasticity from experimental measurements is crucial for understanding how neural systems adapt their representations of relevant biological information. Current analysis methods using histogram estimates of spike rate functions in nonoverlapping temporal windows do not track the evolution of receptive field plasticity on a fine time scale. Adaptive signal processing is an established engineering paradigm for estimating time-varying system parameters from experimental measurements. We present an adaptive filter algorithm for tracking neural receptive field plasticity based on point process models of spike train activity. We derive an instantaneous steepest descent algorithm by using as the criterion function the instantaneous log likelihood of a point process spike train model. We apply the point process adaptive filter algorithm in a study of spatial (place) receptive field properties of simulated and actual spike train data from rat CA1 hippocampal neurons. A stability analysis of the algorithm is sketched in the. The adaptive algorithm can update the place field parameter estimates on a millisecond time scale. It reliably tracked the migration, changes in scale, and changes in maximum firing rate characteristic of hippocampal place fields in a rat running on a linear track. Point process adaptive filtering offers an analytic method for studying the dynamics of neural receptive fields.
Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease are associated with the cerebral accumulation of beta-amyloid and alpha-synuclein, respectively. Some patients have clinical and pathological features of both diseases, raising the possibility of overlapping pathogenetic pathways. We generated transgenic (tg) mice with neuronal expression of human beta-amyloid peptides, alpha-synuclein, or both. The functional and morphological alterations in doubly tg mice resembled the Lewy-body variant of Alzheimer's disease. These mice had severe deficits in learning and memory, developed motor deficits before alpha-synuclein singly tg mice, and showed prominent age-dependent degeneration of cholinergic neurons and presynaptic terminals. They also had more alpha-synuclein-immunoreactive neuronal inclusions than alpha-synuclein singly tg mice. Ultrastructurally, some of these inclusions were fibrillar in doubly tg mice, whereas all inclusions were amorphous in alpha-synuclein singly tg mice. beta-Amyloid peptides promoted aggregation of alpha-synuclein in a cell-free system and intraneuronal accumulation of alpha-synuclein in cell culture. beta-Amyloid peptides may contribute to the development of Lewy-body diseases by promoting the aggregation of alpha-synuclein and exacerbating alpha-synuclein-dependent neuronal pathologies. Therefore, treatments that block the production or accumulation of beta-amyloid peptides could benefit a broader spectrum of disorders than previously anticipated.
Using expression cloning one can isolate proteins with specific biological functions. This methodology can be adapted for the identification of novel players in the regulation of cell signaling. Here, we describe an expression cloning strategy to identify suppressors of Ras signaling. This screen is based on the observation that the activation of the small guanosine triphosphate (GTP)-binding protein H-Ras initiates a mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)-dependent signaling pathway that inactivates integrin ligand binding. Our strategy depends on flow cytometry and a monoclonal antibody that recognizes integrin activation states. Flow cytometry enhances the screen's sensitivity thereby allowing us to examine function quantitatively at the level of a single cell millions of times in one screen. The following protocol provides a detailed method for the isolation of proteins that regulate cell signaling.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY)-immunoreactive axons are present within the spinal cord. Some of these axons originate from neurons in the brainstem. Other axons arise from within the spinal cord since NPY-immunoreactivity can be detected after complete spinal cord transection. To identify spinal neurons that might express NPY, we localized NPY mRNA in rat spinal cord using in situ hybridization histochemistry. NPY mRNA-containing neurons were localized in the dorsal horn, in medial laminae of the grey matter and in the lateral spinal nucleus in thoracic, lumbar and sacral cord. The location of some of these neurons, and their proximity to sympathetic preganglionic neurons, suggest some NPY-containing interneurons are likely to be involved in spinal as well as supraspinal autonomic reflex pathways.
The interstitial nucleus of the posterior limb of the anterior commissure (IPAC) lies at the junction of the striatopallidal system and the lateral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis-central amygdaloid nucleus continuum (i.e., the central extended amygdala; EAc). Its efferent connections were investigated in the rat with anterograde (Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin) and retrograde (Fluoro-Gold and cholera toxin B subunit) tracers and compared with those of the central amygdaloid nucleus. Our anterograde tracing experiments reveal that the projections of the medial IPAC largely reciprocate its afferent connections (Shammah-Lagnado et al. [1999] Neuroscience 94:1097-1123) and are very similar to those of the medial part of the central amygdaloid nucleus. The lateral IPAC, on the other hand, innervates the pallidal complex, substantia nigra and retrorubral field. Local connections are found within medial IPAC and within lateral IPAC, but the two divisions are not interconnected. Our retrograde tracing experiments confirm that IPAC projections to EAc components, parabrachial area, and nucleus of the solitary tract originate chiefly from the medial division, whereas both medial and lateral divisions innervate the retrorubral field. Moreover, in sections processed for choline acetyltransferase, the strong projections from caudal IPACm to the posterior basolateral amygdaloid nucleus and the amygdalopiriform transition area were found to arise chiefly from cholinergic cells. Overall, our results suggest that the medial IPAC is intimately related to the EAc, whereas the lateral IPAC represents a striatal territory.
To characterize corticostriatal projections from rodent sensorimotor cortex, the anterograde tracers biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) and fluororuby (FR) were injected into the whisker representations of the primary motor (MI) and somatosensory (SI) cortices. Reconstructions of labeled terminals and their beaded varicosities in the neostriatum and thalamus were analyzed quantitatively to determine the degree of labeled overlap in both of these subcortical structures. Corticostriatal projections from the vibrissal representation in MI were more extensive than corresponding projections from SI. Both cortical areas sent dense projections to the dorsolateral neostriatum, but the MI vibrissal representation also projected to regions located more rostrally and medially. Despite these differences, both MI and SI projected to overlapping parts of the dorsolateral neostriatum. Tracer injections in both cortical areas also produced dense anterograde and retrograde labeling in the medial sector of the posterior complex of the thalamus (POm). Because POm is somatotopically organized and has reciprocal connections with both SI and MI cortices, the amount of labeled overlap in POm was used to indicate whether the tracers were injected into corresponding whisker representations of MI and SI. We found that the proportion of labeled overlap in the neostriatum was highly correlated with the amount of labeled overlap in POm. These results indicate that the rodent neostriatum receives convergent projections from corresponding regions in MI and SI cortex. Furthermore, the thalamocortical projections of the POm indicate that it may modulate corticostriatal outputs from corresponding representations in MI and SI.
The synapse, as the site of functional neural interaction, has been suggested as a possible substrate for age-related impairment of cognitive ability. Using the physical disector probe with tissue prepared for ultrastructural analysis, we find an age-related decline in the numerical density of presumptive inhibitory synapses in layer 2 of the sensorimotor cortex of the Brown Norway x Fisher 344 rat. This age-related decline in presumptive inhibitory synapses is maintained when the density of synapses is combined with the numerical density of neurons quantified from the same anatomical space to arrive at a ratio of synapses per neuron. The numerical density of these synapses declines between middle-aged (18 months) and old (29 months) animals by 36% whereas numerical density of neurons does not change between these ages, resulting in a decline in the ratio of presumptive inhibitory synapses per neuron in this cortical area. This study demonstrates a deficit in the intrinsic inhibitory circuitry of the aging neocortex, which suggests an anatomical substrate for age-related cognitive impairment.
We and others have recently cloned a new member of the transforming growth factor-beta superfamily, growth differentiation factor-15/ macrophage inhibitory cytokine-1 (GDF-15/MIC-1). Using in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry, we determined the distribution of GDF-15/MIC-1 mRNA and protein in the perinatal and cryolesioned adult rat brain. The choroid plexus epithelium of all ventricles represents the site of strongest and almost exclusive mRNA expression in the normal perinatal and adult brain. The newborn rat brain reveals GDF-15/MIC-1 immunoreactivity (ir) in ependymal cells lining the ventricles, in the striatal subventricular zone, and in populations of nonneural cells of the thalamic/hippocampal lamina affixa, in addition to that in the choroid plexus. Unilateral cryogenic cortical lesioning induced a significant increase of GDF-15/MIC-1 mRNA expression and ir at the lesion site and expression in presumed neurons within the dorsal thalamic area. At the lesion site, GDF-15/MIC-1-producing cells showed immuncytochemical features of neurons, macrophages, and activated microglial cells. Fluorescent microscopy revealed both intra- and extracellular GDF-15/MIC-1 ir. Up-regulation of GDF-15/MIC-1 in activated macrophages (Mstraight phi) is also supported by RT-PCR, ICC, and Western blot experiments showing pronounced induction of GDF-15/MIC-1 expression (mRNA and protein) in retinoic acid/phorbol ester-stimulated human M phi. Our data suggest that 1) GDF-15/MIC-1 is secreted into the cerebrospinal fluid and 2) in the newborn brain may penetrate through the ependymal lining and act on developing neurons and/or glial cells. As a constituent of cells in the lamina affixa, the protein might be involved in the regulation of mesenchyme-epithelial interactions. Finally, GDF-15/MIC-1 may also act within the antiinflammatory cytokine network activated in CNS lesions.
Splenic immune function is modulated by sympathetic innervation, which in turn is controlled by inputs from supraspinal regions. In the present study, the characterization of central circuits involved in the control of splenic function was accomplished by injecting pseudorabies virus (PRV), a retrograde transynaptic tracer, into the spleen and conducting a temporal analysis of the progression of the infection from 60 hours to 110 hours postinoculation. In addition, central noradrenergic cell groups involved in splenic innervation were characterized by dual immunohistochemical detection of dopamine-beta-hydroxylase and PRV. Infection in the CNS first appeared in the spinal cord. Splenic sympathetic preganglionic neurons, identified in rats injected with Fluoro-Gold i.p. prior to PRV inoculation of the spleen, were located in T(3)-T(12) bilaterally; numerous infected interneurons were also found in the thoracic spinal cord (T(1)-T(13)). Infected neurons in the brain were first observed in the A5 region, ventromedial medulla, rostral ventrolateral medulla, paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus, Barrington's nucleus, and caudal raphe. At intermediate survival times, the number of infected cells increased in previously infected areas, and infected neurons also appeared in lateral hypothalamus, A7 region, locus coeruleus, subcoeruleus region, nucleus of the solitary tract, and C3 cell group. At longer postinoculation intervals, infected neurons were found in additional hypothalamic areas, Edinger-Westphal nucleus, periaqueductal gray, pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus, caudal ventrolateral medulla, and area postrema. These results demonstrate that the sympathetic outflow to the spleen is controlled by a complex multisynaptic pathway that involves several brainstem and forebrain nuclei.
Early cognitive process in the primary somatosensory cortex (SI) was studied by measuring somatosensory evoked magnetic fields during selective attention tasks. We used vibratory stimuli to the index or middle finger with a frequency of 100 or 400 Hz for selective discrimination of spatial finger and non-spatial frequency attribute of stimuli. An early M50 component from the SI cortex indicated that the SI regions for the fingers were specifically segregated in a finger discrimination task but not in a frequency discrimination task or in a control condition. The task-dependent and immediate switchover of cortical finger representation demonstrates a dynamic SI activation for spatial information processing.
In the adult brain, neural proliferation is almost absent and neurons are generally not renewed. By contrast, in the olfactory organ, olfactory neurons are produced continuously throughout life. To investigate whether specific cell cycle inhibitors are involved in the control of neural quiescence in adulthood, we compared their expression either in different regions of the adult brain weakly or non neurogenic or, for comparison, in the olfactory mucosa. We show that numerous cell cycle inhibitors are expressed in the adult brain either in an ubiquitous fashion (as p19Ink4d) or in specific brain regions (p15Ink4b in the forebrain, p27Kip1 and p21Cip1 in the cerebellum). By contrast p18Ink4c was expressed detectably only in the highly neurogenic olfactory epithelium. The present data suggest that various CDK inhibitors may be involved in a region-specific fashion in the maintenance of nerve cell quiescence in adults.
The tetrodotoxin-resistant voltage-gated sodium channel Nav 1.8 is expressed only in nociceptive sensory neurons. This channel has been proposed to contribute significantly to the sensitization of primary sensory neurons after injury. We have studied the nociceptive behaviours of mice carrying a null mutation in the Nav 1.8 gene (Nav 1.8 -/-) in models of peripheral inflammation as well as a model of neuropathic pain. The results from the present studies reveal that Nav 1.8 is a necessary mediator of NGF-induced thermal hyperalgesia but is not essential for PGE2-evoked hypersensitivity. Neuropathic pain behaviours were unchanged in Nav 1.8 -/- mice indicating that this channel is not involved in the alteration of sensory thresholds following peripheral nerve injury.
The protective effects of adenovirus-mediated glia cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) gene transaction was investigated on cultured motoneurons. First, the dose- and time-response relationship of glutamate neurotoxicity was determined on spinal motoneuron cultures. Then, the effect of the gdnf recombinant adenovirus (AdCMVgdnf) was tested in this cellular model. AdCMVgdnf at 20 MOI (multiplicity of infection) was found to significantly reduce the cell loss of motoneurons, as compared to AdCMVgdnf at 20 MOI, the recombinant adenovirus containing the marker gene lacZ. Furthermore, the adenovirus was proved to mediate erogenous gene expression using X-Gal staining and a semi-quantitative RT-PCR method. These results suggested a therapeutic potential of adenovirus vector-mediated gdnf gene therapy in human motoneuron diseases.
Although the nongenomic effects of glucocorticoids have been well acknowledged, its precise intracellular signal transduction pathway remains to be elucidated. The present study using Western immunoblot and protein kinase activity assay, for the first time, showed that corticosterone (B) can induce a rapid activation of Erk1/2 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) in PC12 cells. The dose-response curve was bell shaped, with the maximal activation at 10(-9) M in 15 min. The results from immunofluorescence staining also revealed that the activated Erk1/2 MAPK was translocated from cytoplasm to nucleus of PC12 cells in 15 min. Activation of Erk1/2 MAPK by B was apparently not mediated by the classical cytosolic steroid receptors, for B-BSA can induce the phosphorylation of Erk1/2 MAPK, but the antagonist (RU38486) cannot block the phosphorylation of Erk1/2 MAPK induced by B. Phosphorylation of Erk1/2 MAPK induced by B was not affected by a tyrosine kinase inhibitor (genistein), suggesting that the pathway did not involve the tyrosine kinase activity. On the other hand, protein kinase C activator (PMA) can activate and protein kinase C inhibitor (G6976) can block the activation of Erk1/2 MAPK induced by B. Taken together, these data clearly demonstrated that B might act via putative membrane receptor and rapidly activate Erk1/2 MAPK through protein kinase C alpha in PC12 cells.
The distribution of 5-HT(1B) and 5-HT(1D) receptors in the human post mortem brain was examined using whole hemisphere autoradiography and the radioligand [(3)H]GR 125743. [(3)H]GR 125743 binding was highest in the substantia nigra and the globus pallidus. Lower levels were detected in the striatum, with the highest densities in the ventromedial parts. In the amygdala, the hippocampus, the septal region and the hypothalamus, lower [(3)H]GR 125743 binding was observed, reflecting low densities of 5-HT(1B/1D) receptors. In the cerebral cortex, binding was similar in most regions, although restricted parts of the medial occipital cortex were markedly more densely labeled. Binding densities were very low in the cerebellar cortex and in the thalamus. Two methods were used to distinguish between the two receptor subtypes, the first using ketanserin to block 5-HT(1D) receptors and the second using SB 224289 to inhibit 5-HT(1B) receptor binding. The autoradiograms indicated that in the human brain, the 5-HT(1B) receptor is much more abundant than the 5-HT(1D) receptor, which seemed to occur only in low amounts mainly in the ventral pallidum. Although [(3)H]GR 125743 is a suitable radioligand to examine the distribution of 5-HT(1B) receptors in the human brain in vitro, the selectivities of ketanserin and SB 224289 are not sufficiently high to give definite evidence for the occurrence of the 5-HT(1D) receptor in the human brain.
To develop an assay system that allows the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor subtype-selective antagonistic potency of drugs, we have established Chinese hamster ovary cell lines expressing the four NMDA receptor subtypes (GluRepsilon1/zeta1-GluRepsilon4/zeta1) heat-indelibly. Using these clonal cells, we found that a novel antagonist, (1S,2R)-1-phenyl-2[(S)-1-aminopropyl]-N,N-diethylcyclopropanecarboxamide, was less selective for the GluRepsilon1/zeta1: the IC(50) values for the GluRepsilon1/zeta1-GluRepsilon4/zeta1 were 41.7, 13.3, 12.6 and 11.5 microM, respectively, while two well-known antagonists, DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid and ifenprodil, showed the known potency and selectivity for each subtype. Thus, the established clonal cells are of use in characterizing the pharmacological properties of drugs that act on NMDA receptors.
Although mild hypothermia generally reduces protein synthesis in mammalian cells, the expression of a small number of proteins, including Rbm3, is induced under these conditions. In this study, we identify an Rbm3 mRNA with a complex 5' leader sequence containing multiple upstream open reading frames. Although these are potentially inhibitory to translation, monocistronic reporter mRNAs containing this leader were translated relatively efficiently. In addition, when tested in the intercistronic region of dicistronic mRNAs, this leader dramatically enhanced second cistron translation, both in transfected cells and in cell-free lysates, suggesting that the Rbm3 leader mediates cap-independent translation via an internal ribosome entry site (IRES). Inasmuch as Rbm3 mRNA and protein levels are both increased in cells exposed to mild hypothermia, the activity of this IRES was evaluated at a cooler temperature. Compared to 37 degrees C, IRES activity at 33 degrees C was enhanced up to 5-fold depending on the cell line. Moderate enhancements also occurred with constructs containing other viral and cellular IRESes. These effects of mild hypothermia on translation were not caused by decreased cell growth, as similar effects were not observed when cells were serum starved. The results suggest that cap-independent mechanisms may facilitate the translation of particular mRNAs during mild hypothermia.
Myelin associated glycoprotein (MAG) has growth promoting effect on mouse cerebellar neurons. In the present study, we examined which isoform of MAG has the effect. cDNA for L-MAG and S-MAG was stably transfected into BALB/c 3T3 cells, on which cerebellar neurons were cultured. The neurons were stained with antibody against microtubule-associated protein-2. Neurites of the neurons cultured on cells expressing L-MAG extended significantly further than those cultured on cells expressing S-MAG or on control cells. Therefore, intracellular domain of MAG may have the potential to affect MAG-neurite interaction.
Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) is a prototype autoimmune disease mediated by type 1 helper T (TH1) cells and under the control of regulatory cells. Here we report that a synthetic glycolipid ligand for CD1d-restricted natural killer T (NKT) cells expressing the semi-invariant T-cell receptor (Valpha14+) is preventive against EAE. The ligand is an analogue of alpha-galactosylceramide (alpha-GC), a prototype NKT cell ligand, with a truncated sphingosine chain. alpha-GC causes NKT cells to produce both interferon (IFN)-gamma and interleukin (IL)-4 (refs 4, 5). However, this new ligand can induce a predominant production of IL-4 by the NKT cells. A single injection of this glycolipid, but not of alpha-GC, consistently induced TH2 bias of autoimmune T cells by causing NKT cells to produce IL-4, leading to suppression of EAE. The lack of polymorphism of CD1d and cross-reactive response of mouse and human NKT cells to the same ligand indicates that targeting NKT cells with this ligand may be an attractive means for intervening in human autoimmune diseases such as multiple sclerosis.
MCF-7 human breast cancer cells do not express caspase 3, thought by some to be a critical component of the apoptosis cascade. Nonetheless, both mock- and bcl-2-transfected MCF-7 cells undergo apoptosis after treatment with a variety of stimuli, including the DNA-cleaving antimitotic agent, neocarzinostatin (NCS). Transfection with bcl-2 shifts the concentration-response curve to NCS but does not change the phenomenology of apoptosis when it occurs. In both cases, NCS treatment results in condensation and fragmentation of MCF-7 cell nuclei and release of cytochrome c from the mitochondria to the cytosol. This apoptosis is accompanied by decreased levels of Bcl-2 and increased levels of Bax. Using a series of caspase inhibitors with overlapping specificities, enzyme-specific chromogenic substrates, and an antibody specific for activated caspase 7, we have determined that apoptosis in MCF-7 cells proceeds via sequential activation of caspases 9, 7 and 6. P21 is detected only after activation of caspase 7, and P53 is neither expressed at baseline nor up-regulated with apoptosis induction. This pathway bypasses the need for activated caspase 3 in these cells.

The neural correlates of memory encoding have been studied by contrasting neural activity elicited by items at the time of learning according to whether they were later remembered or forgotten [1]. Previous studies have focused on regions where neural activity is greater for subsequently remembered items [2-8]. Here, we describe regions where activity is greater for subsequently forgotten items. In two experiments that employed the same incidental learning task, activity in an overlapping set of cortical regions (posterior cingulate, inferior and medial parietal, and dorsolateral prefrontal) was associated with failure on a subsequent memory test.
In a multidisciplinary approach to the management of chronic pain, neurosurgical methods are an indispensable part of the therapeutic armamentarium. With the exception of percutaneous interventions for trigeminal neuralgia and facet joint syndromes, most ablative pain surgery procedures (neurotomy, rhizotomy, sympathectomy, etc.) have been replaced by neuromodulatory approaches such as electrical stimulation of the central nervous system (CNS). However, cordotomy is still a valuable operation for certain forms of cancer related pains (Pancoast's syndrome, breakthrough pain) which are relatively resistant to pharmacotherapy. Another example of ablative surgery is the dorsal root entry zone (DREZ) operation, which is generally the only treatment option for pain due to root avulsion and segmental pain in spinal cord injury. Spinal cord stimulation (SCS) has proven to be most useful for the management of pain following peripheral nerve injury (including complex regional pain syndromes) and rhizopathy. For these conditions which are otherwise often therapy resistant, SCS may produce substantial and long-lasting pain relief in 60-70% of the patients. Considering that such pains are common and the fact that SCS has been shown to be cost-effective, this treatment is no doubt at present underused. Complications and side-effects are very rare. SCS has also been found to be useful for pain in peripheral vascular disorders and angina pectoris. In the latter condition the overall results are favorable in about 80% of patients with a significant reduction of the frequency and severity of angina attacks and the need for nitrates. Stimulation of the motor cortex is a novel and promising treatment of central, post-stroke pain and painful trigeminal neuropathy.



Two bases for this study were the theory of stress as a provoking factor for high alcohol consumption in human being and findings that the stress hormones stimulate ethanol intake in rats. We therefore investigated whether the cortisol-synthesis inhibitor metyrapone could reduce high alcohol consumption in socially stable subjects who reported drinking mainly for relaxation purposes. Most of the investigated subjects were found to be alcohol dependent (81%), with moderately high levels of intake, yet they had not reported more severe life problems. All subjects reported their daily alcohol consumption during 2-week baseline, medication, and postmedication periods. Sixteen subjects were given 1 g of metyrapone orally daily for 14 days, and 15 subjects received placebo. Morning serum cortisol concentration was assessed four times in the course of the study period. Metyrapone treatment was not found to reduce alcohol consumption more than placebo. Serum cortisol concentrations remained within the laboratory reference interval during the study and did not differ between the study groups. In this study, we found that a cortisol-synthesis inhibitor had no effect on alcohol consumption. One reason may be that cortisol secretion has no role in the maintenance of high alcohol consumption. On the other hand, because this study is the first of its kind, further studies using other doses of treatment and treatment schedules are suggested.
This study investigates the role of individual competence factors as modifiers of the risk for adult substance and alcohol abuse in relation to living in high- or low-income areas. The study group consisted of 7,577 18-year-old Swedish conscripts followed for substance and alcohol abuse until the age of 45 ears. Records of alcohol and substance abuse were obtained from official registers. In the 25-year follow-up period, 166 (2.2%) persons were identified as substance abusers and 286 (3.8%) as alcohol abusers. Subjects with many (from five to nine) behavioral risk factors and many (from four to five) competence factors had significantly less adult alcohol and substance abuse in low-income areas compared with those who had few competencies. This finding was also true for alcohol abuse in high-income areas. Experimentation with drugs and alcohol use before conscription was the most powerful risk factor for adult alcohol abuse and substance abuse in both income areas. The results of this study indicate that knowledge of competence factors is important in preventing abuse, especially among high-risk persons coming from low-income areas.


Primary cultures of adult mouse hepatocytes are shown here to reexpress differentiated hepatocyte features following treatment with 2% DMSO and 10(-7) M glucagon. To examine the roles of gap junctional communication during hepatocyte growth and differentiation, we have compared treated and untreated hepatocytes from connexin (Cx)32-deficient [Cx32 knockout (KO)] and wild-type mice. In untreated cultures, DNA replication of Cx32 KO hepatocytes was markedly higher than of wild types. Although Cx26 mRNA levels remained high at all time points in wild-type and Cx32 KO hepatocytes, Cx32 mRNA and protein in wild-type hepatocytes underwent a marked decline, which recovered in 10-day treated cultures. Increased levels of Cx26 protein and junctional conductance were observed in Cx32 KO hepatocytes at 96 h in culture, a time when cell growth rate was high. Treatment with DMSO/glucagon highly reinduced Cx26 expression in Cx32 KO hepatocytes, and such treatment reinduced expression of both Cx32 and Cx26 expression in wild types. Dye transfer was not observed following Lucifer yellow injection into DMSO/glucagon-treated Cx32 KO hepatocytes, whereas the spread was extensive in wild types. Nevertheless, high junctional conductance values were observed in treated cells from both genotypes. These studies provide a method by which the differentiated phenotype can be obtained in cultured mouse hepatocytes and provide in vitro evidence that expression of gap junctions formed of Cx32 are involved in the regulation of growth of mouse hepatocytes.
We used patch-clamp recordings in slice preparations from Sprague-Dawley rats to evaluate responses of 20 spinal-projecting neurons in the dorsal paraventricular nucleus (PVN) to electrical stimulation in suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). Neurons containing a retrograde label transported from the thoracic (T(1)-T(4)) intermediolateral column displayed three intrinsic properties that collectively allowed distinction from neighboring parvocellular or magnocellular cells: a low-input resistance, a hyperpolarization-activated time-dependent inward rectification, and a low-threshold calcium conductance. Twelve of fifteen cells tested responded to electrical stimulation in SCN. All of 10 cells tested in media containing 2,3,-dioxo-6-nitro-1,2,3,4-tetrahydrobenzo[f]quinoxaline-7-sulfonamide disodium (5 microM) and D(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (20 microM) responded with constant latency (11.4 +/- 0.7 ms) inhibitory postsynaptic potentials, able to follow 20- to 50-Hz stimulation and blockable with bicuculline (20 microM). By contrast, all eight cells tested in the presence of bicuculline demonstrated constant latency (9.8 +/- 0.6 ms) excitatory postsynaptic potentials that followed at 20-50 Hz and featured both non-N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and NMDA receptor-mediated components. We conclude that both GABAergic and glutamatergic neurons in SCN project directly to spinal-projecting neurons in the dorsal PVN.
To examine effects of static exercise on the arterial baroreflex control of vascular sympathetic nerve activity, 22 healthy male volunteers performed 2 min of static handgrip exercise at 30% of maximal voluntary force, followed by postexercise circulatory arrest (PE-CA). Microneurographic recording of muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) was made with simultaneous recording of arterial pressure (Portapres). The relationship between MSNA and diastolic arterial pressure was calculated for each condition and was defined as the arterial baroreflex function. There was a close relationship between MSNA and diastolic arterial pressure in each subject at rest and during static exercise and PE-CA. The slope of the relationship significantly increased by &gt;300% during static exercise (P &lt; 0.001), and the x-axis intercept (diastolic arterial pressure level) increased by 13 mmHg during exercise (P &lt; 0.001). These alterations in the baroreflex relationship were completely maintained during PE-CA. It is concluded that static handgrip exercise is associated with a resetting of the operating range and an increase in the reflex gain of the arterial barorelex control of MSNA.


The topological organization of interfacing neuronal populations in the basal forebrain of rats was investigated in 3D by using computational methods for extracting information about the spatial distribution of cell densities and density relations. We claim that numerical and spatial constraints imposed by these methods may help to define neuronal clusters in this brain area where simple two-dimensional histology failed to reveal such an arrangement. Neuronal clusters have been suggested in many brain regions as sites of integrative operations. Taking advantage of computerized data acquisition methods in the 3D reconstruction of large cell populations we introduced four basic methods to visualize density relations on simple and combined cell markers: Differential Density 3D Scatter Plot, Iso-relational Scatter plot, Iso-density Surface Rendering and Iso-relational Surface Rendering. These methods are described and exemplified on a 3D neuronal database acquired from mapping different chemically or hodologically defined cell populations in serial sections of the rat basal forebrain.
An important goal in computational neuroanatomy is the complete and accurate simulation of neuronal morphology. We are developing computational tools to model three-dimensional dendritic structures based on sets of stochastic rules. This paper reports an extensive, quantitative anatomical characterization of simulated motoneurons and Purkinje cells. We used several local and global algorithms implemented in the L-Neuron and ArborVitae programs to generate sets of virtual neurons. Parameters statistics for all algorithms were measured from experimental data, thus providing a compact and consistent description of these morphological classes. We compared the emergent anatomical features of each group of virtual neurons with those of the experimental database in order to gain insights on the plausibility of the model assumptions, potential improvements to the algorithms, and non-trivial relations among morphological parameters. Algorithms mainly based on local constraints (e.g., branch diameter) were successful in reproducing many morphological properties of both motoneurons and Purkinje cells (e.g. total length, asymmetry, number of bifurcations). The addition of global constraints (e.g., trophic factors) improved the angle-dependent emergent characteristics (average Euclidean distance from the soma to the dendritic terminations, dendritic spread). Virtual neurons systematically displayed greater anatomical variability than real cells, suggesting the need for additional constraints in the models. For several emergent anatomical properties, a specific algorithm reproduced the experimental statistics better than the others did. However, relative performances were often reversed for different anatomical properties and/or morphological classes. Thus, combining the strengths of alternative generative models could lead to comprehensive algorithms for the complete and accurate simulation of dendritic morphology.
Neurons connect to each other through a myriad of dendritic and axonal arborisations. Dendritic structures provide the substrate for integration of postsynaptic potentials and control of action potential generation. Axonal structures provide the substrate for action potential dissemination and signalling to target neurons. The morphological complexity of dendritic arborisations is assumed to play a critical role in the transformation of spatio-temporal patterns of postsynaptic potentials into time-structured series of action potentials. Although these transformations lie at the basis of information processing in the brain, it is still far from understood how their details are influenced by dendritic shape. To facilitate research in this area, it is necessary that data on both the morphology and electrical properties of neurons, as well as computational tools for analysis, become available in an integrated way. This requires a combined effort from the fields of informatics and neurosciences (together called neuroinformatics) in order to create data acquisition, databasing and computational tools. Focusing on neuronal morphology, this chapter will give a brief review of the current neuroinformatics developments in both reconstruction techniques, morphological quantification, modeling of morphological complexity, modeling of function and the need for databasing neuronal morphologies. Additionally, one of the dendritic modeling approaches is described in more detail in the Appendix.

Nitric oxide is an unstable free radical that serves as a novel messenger molecule in the central nervous system (CNS). In order to understand the interplay between classic and novel chemical communication systems in vestibular pathways, the staining obtained using a monoclonal antibody directed against L-citrulline was compared with the labeling observed using more traditional markers for the presence of nitric oxide. Brainstem tissue from adult rats was processed for immunocytochemistry employing a monoclonal antibody directed against L-citrulline, a polyclonal antiserum against neuronal nitric oxide synthase, and/or NADPH-diaphorase histochemistry. Our findings demonstrate that L-citrulline can be fixed in situ by vascular perfusion, and can be visualized in fixed CNS tissue sections by immunocytochemistry. Further, the same vestibular regions and cell types are labeled by NADPH-diaphorase histochemistry, by the neuronal nitric oxide synthase antiserum, and by our anti-L-citrulline antibody. Clusters of L-citrulline-immunoreactive neurons are present in subregions of the vestibular nuclei, including the caudal portion of the inferior vestibular nucleus, the magnocellular portion of the medial vestibular nucleus, and the large cells in the ventral tier of the lateral vestibular nucleus. NADPH-diaphorase histochemical staining of these neurons clearly demonstrated their multipolar, fusiform and globular somata and long varicose dendritic processes. These results provide support for the suggestion that nitric oxide serves key roles in both vestibulo-autonomic and vestibulo-spinal pathways.

Patients with balance disorders want answers to the following basic questions: (1) What is causing my problem? and (2) What can be done about my problem? Information to fully answer these questions must include status of both sensory and motor components of the balance control systems. Computerized dynamic posturography (CDP) provides quantitative assessment of both sensory and motor components of postural control along with how the sensory inputs to the brain interact. This paper reviews the scientific basis and clinical applications of CDP. Specifically, studies describing the integration of vestibular inputs with other sensory systems for postural control are briefly summarized. Clinical applications, including assessment, rehabilitation, and management are presented. Effects of aging on postural control along with prevention and management strategies are discussed.
This paper describes our analysis of the complex head-neck system using a combination of experimental and modeling approaches. Dynamical analysis of head movements and EMG activation elicited by perturbation of trunk position has examined functional contributions of biomechanically and neurally generated forces in lumped systems with greatly simplified kinematics. This has revealed that visual and voluntary control of neck muscles and the dynamic and static vestibulocollic and cervicocollic reflexes preferentially govern head-neck system state in different frequency domains. It also documents redundant control, which allows the system to compensate for lesions and creates a potential for substantial variability within and between subjects. Kinematic studies have indicated the existence of reciprocal and co-contraction strategies for voluntary force generation, of a vestibulocollic strategy for stabilizing the head during body perturbations and of at least two strategies for voluntary head tracking. Each strategy appears to be executed by a specific muscle synergy that is presumably optimized to efficiently meet the demands of the task.
Secondary canal-related vestibulospinal neurons respond to an externally applied movement of the head in the form of a firing rate modulation that encodes the angular velocity of the movement, and reflects in large part the input &quot;head velocity in space&quot; signal carried by the semicircular canal afferents. In addition to the head velocity signal, the vestibulospinal neurons can carry a more processed signal that includes eye position or eye velocity, or both (see Boyle on ref. list). To understand the control signals used by the central vestibular pathways in the generation of reflex head stabilization, such as the vestibulocollic reflex (VCR), and the maintenance of head posture, it is essential to record directly from identified vestibulospinal neurons projecting to the cervical spinal segments in the alert animal. The present report discusses two key features of the primate vestibulospinal system. First, the termination morphology of vestibulospinal axons in the cervical segments of the spinal cord is described to lay the structural basis of vestibulospinal control of head/neck posture and movement. And second, the head movement signal content carried by the same class of secondary vestibulospinal neurons during the actual execution of the VCR and during self-generated, or active, rapid head movements is presented.
Hair cells in the vestibular organs of birds have a relatively short life span. Mature hair cells appear to die spontaneously and are then quickly replaced by new hair cells that arise from the division of epithelial supporting cells. A similar regenerative mechanism also results in hair cell replacement after ototoxic damage. The cellular basis of hair cell turnover in the avian ear is not understood. We are investigating the signaling pathways that lead to hair cell death and the relationship between ongoing cell death and cell production. In addition, work from our lab and others has demonstrated that the avian inner ear contains a resident population of macrophages and that enhanced numbers of macrophages are recruited to sites of hair cells lesions. Those observations suggest that macrophages and their secretory products (cytokines) may be involved in hair cell regeneration. Consistent with that suggestion, we have found that treatment with the anti-inflammatory drug dexamethasone reduces regenerative cell proliferation in the avian ear, and that certain macrophage-secreted cytokines can influence the proliferation of vestibular supporting cells and the survival of statoacoustic neurons. Those results suggest a role for the immune system in the process of sensory regeneration in the inner ear.
During locomotion, there is a translation and compensatory rotation of the head in both the vertical and horizontal planes. During moderate to fast walking (100 m/min), vertical head translation occurs at the frequency of stepping (2 Hz) and generates peak linear acceleration of 0.37 g. Lateral head translation occurs at the stride frequency (1 Hz) and generates peak linear acceleration of 0.1 g. Peak head pitch and yaw angular velocities are approximately 17 degrees/s. The frequency and magnitude of these head movements are within the operational range of both the linear and angular vestibulo-ocular reflex (IVOR and aVOR). Vertical eye movements undergo a phase reversal from near to far targets. When viewing a far (&gt;1 m) target, vertical eye velocity is typical of an aVOR response; that is, it is compensatory for head pitch. At close viewing distances (&lt;1 m), vertical eye velocity is in phase with head pitch and is compensatory for vertical head translation, suggesting that the IVOR predominantly generates the eye movement response. Horizontal head movements during locomotion occur at the stride frequency of 1 Hz, where the IVOR gain is low. Horizontal eye movements are compensatory for head yaw at all viewing distances and are likely generated by the aVOR.
Body, head, and eye movements were studied in three dimensions while walking and turning to determine the role of the vestibular system in directing gaze and maintaining spatial orientation. The body, head, and eyes were represented as three-dimensional coordinate frames, and the movement of these frames was related to a trajectory frame that described the motion of the body on a terrestrial plane. The axis-angle of the body, head, and eye rotation were then compared to the axis-angle of the rotation of the gravitoinertial acceleration (GIA). We inferred the role of the vestibular system during locomotion and the contributions of the VCR and VOR by examining the interrelationship between these coordinate frames. Straight walking induced head and eye rotations in a compensatory manner to the linear accelerations, maintaining head pointing and gaze along the direction of forward motion. Turning generated a combination of compensation and orientation responses. The head leads and steers the turn while the eyes compensate to maintain stable horizontal gaze in space. Saccades shift horizontal gaze as the turn is executed. The head pitches, as during straight walking. It also rolls so that the head tends to align with the orientation of the GIA. Head orientation changes anticipate orientation changes of the GIA. Eye orientation follows the changes in GIA orientation so that the net orientation gaze is closer to the orientation of the GIA. The study indicates that the vestibular system utilizes compensatory and orienting mechanisms to stabilize spatial orientation and gaze during walking and turning.
The inner ear, also called the membranous labyrinth, contains the cochlea, which is responsible for the sense of hearing, and the vestibular apparatus, which is necessary for the sense of balance and gravity. The inner ear arises in the embryo from placodes, which are epithelial thickenings of the cranial ectoderm symmetrically located on either side of hindbrain rhombomeres 5 and 6. Placode formation in mice is first visible at the 12-somite stage and is controlled by surrounding tissues, the paraxial mesoderm and neural ectoderm. Diffusible molecules such as growth factors play an important role in this process. The activity of several genes confers the identity to the placodal cells. Subsequent cellular proliferation processes under influences from the adjacent hindbrain cause the inner ear epithelium to invaginate and form a vesicle called the otocyst. Combinatorial expression of several genes and diffusible factors secreted from the vesicle epithelium and hindbrain control specification of distinct inner ear compartments. Transplantation studies and inner ear in vitro cultures show that each of these compartments is already committed to develop unique inner ear structures. Later developmental periods are principally characterized by intrinsic differentiation processes. In particular, sensory patches differentiate into fully functional sensory epithelia, and the semicircular canals along with the cochlear duct are elaborated and ossified.
Human endogenous retroviruses (HERVs) have been implicated as causative agents in diseases characterized by inflammation and macrophage activation, such as multiple sclerosis. Because monocyte activation and differentiation influence retroviral transcription and replication, we investigated the contribution of these processes to the expression of four HERV families (HERV-W, HERV-K, HERV-E, and HERV-H) in human monocytes, and autopsied brain tissue from patients with brain diseases associated with increased macrophage activity. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction analysis of primary macrophages and U937 monocytoid cells stimulated with phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate or lipopolysaccharide revealed three- to ninefold increases in HERV-W, HERV-K, and HERV-H RNA levels. In addition, elevated reverse transcriptase activity and HERV RNA were detectable in supernatants from PMA-stimulated U937 cultures, properties that could be attenuated with the inhibitor of monocyte differentiation threonine-lysine-proline. In contrast, stimulation of monocytes decreased or had no effect on HERV-E expression. Compared with controls, HERV-W and HERV-K expression was increased in brain tissue from patients with multiple sclerosis or human immunodeficiency virus infection or AIDS, with concomitant elevated tumor necrosis factor-alpha levels. Similarly, elevated HERV-W levels were detected in patients with Alzheimer's dementia only when tumor necrosis factor-alpha expression was also evident (2 of 6 cases). The detection of several HERVs in inflammatory brain diseases and the capacity to augment HERV expression in monocytes with compounds that influence cellular activity suggest that increased expression of these viruses is a consequence of increased immune activity rather than causative of distinct diseases.
Extracellular cysteine proteinases, referred to as gingipains, are considered important virulence factors for Porphyromonas gingivalis, a bacterium recognized as a major etiologic agent of chronic periodontitis. We investigated the effect of tetracycline and its analogues, doxycycline and minocycline, on the enzymatic activities of gingipains. Tetracyclines at 100 microM totally inhibited the amidolytic activity of arginine-specific gingipains (HRgpA and RgpB). In contrast, inhibition of Kgp was less efficient and required a somewhat higher concentration of the antibiotic to achieve the same effect. Among tetracycline derivatives, the most potent gingipain inhibitor was doxycycline, followed by tetracycline and minocycline. RgpB was inhibited by doxycycline in an uncompetitive and reversible manner with a 50% inhibitory concentration of 3 microM. Significantly, inhibition was unaffected by calcium, excluding the chelating activity of tetracyclines as the mechanism of gingipain inactivation. In contrast, the inhibitory activities of the tetracyclines were reduced by cysteine, a reducing agent, suggesting an interference of the drug at the oxidative region with the catalytic system of the enzyme. Doxycycline, at 10 microM, significantly inhibited the RgpB-mediated production of vascular permeability-enhancing activity from human plasma, thus proving an effective inhibition of gingipain in vivo. These results indicate a new activity of tetracyclines as cysteine proteinase inhibitors and may explain the therapeutic efficiency of these antibiotics in the treatment of periodontitis.





Attempting to avoid some of the most common methodological problems involved in research on sexual child abuse, we collected data on crimes, perpetrators, and sanctions in all convicted cases of sexual child abuse in a defined population during a 5-year period. This approach provided amply documented and ascertained cases with precise definitions and descriptions of the crimes involved, no clinical referral bias, and minimal dependence on memory effects. The results are valid for the small proportion of cases that lead to conviction in the context of Swedish legislation. Structured data were collected from the court dossiers in all cases of sexual crimes against minors (less than 15 years of age) tried and sentenced at the courts in the Vstra Gtaland region of Sweden between 1993 and 1997. The total number of 496 sentences for sexual crimes during the study period included 203 cases of sexual child abuse (40.8%) with 283 victims and 196 perpetrators, all men. Girls were victims in 85% of the cases, boys in 12%, and boys as well as girls in 3%. Sexual penetration had occurred in 54.5% of cases and the total proportion of hands-on crimes was 83%. Most perpetrators, 72%, were well known to the child. The most severe offenses took place within the family. A wide range of acts were classified as sexual child abuse, but most common was sexual penetration of a female child by her biological father or a family friend.

Autism is a behaviorally defined disorder that comprises a controversial diagnostic category due to heterogeneity in symptomatology, causation, and etiology and significant variance in response to intervention. In this article, the authors provide a brief overview of the clinical category and a summary of diagnostic developments with respect to the American Psychiatric Association's Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders. Regarding causation and etiology, they briefly discuss selected perspectives from the fields of cognitive neuroscience and neuropsychology. The article concludes with a summary of effective behavioral strategies for the treatment of children with autism. This section highlights the importance of early intensive behavioral intervention and includes a discussion of some important aspects of this approach.
Evidence suggests that brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) may be important in the pathophysiology of depression, in addition to its role as a neurotrophic factor for sensory neurons. The authors conducted a series of experiments examining the behavioral profile of BDNF heterozygous knockout and wild-type mice. The heterozygous and wild-type mice did not differ on measures of activity, exploration, or hedonic sensitivity, or in the forced swim test. When assessed in the learned helplessness paradigm, heterozygous mice were slower to escape after training than were wild-type mice (p = .02). This effect may be accounted for by the fact that these mice demonstrate a reduced sensitivity to centrally mediated pain, apparent on the hot plate and Formalin injection tests of nociception. Overall, heterozygous mice were not more likely to display anxious or depressive-like behaviors and, consequently, may not constitute a murine model of genetic vulnerability to mood and anxiety disorders.
Progesterone (P) and its metabolites' effects on sexual receptivity (lordosis) of mice was examined. P dosages that produced normal circulating concentrations of P and 5alpha-pregnan-3alpha-ol-20-one (3alpha,5alpha-THP) enhanced lordosis of ovariectomized, sexually experienced C57BL/6J (C57), +/+ C57BL/6Jx129SvEv (C57x129), and -/- C57BL/6Jx129SvEv (PRKO) mice. Only C57 and C57x129 mice had increases in progestin receptor (PR)-immunoreactivity (PR-IR) in the hypothalamus. RU38486, a PR antagonist, attenuated lordosis of C57 and C57x129, but not PRKO, mice; epostane, a progestin biosynthesis inhibitor, reduced plasma progestins; and finasteride, a P metabolism inhibitor, reduced plasma 3alpha,5alpha-THP and attenuated lordosis of all mice. For sexually naive mice, greater lordosis on initial sexual experience corresponded to greater concentrations of plasma and central progestins and increased central binding of a GABAA agonist, muscimol, compared with that seen in mice with lower lordosis on initial mating. Thus, P-facilitated receptivity in mice involves P and 3alpha,5alpha-THP and their actions at PRs and GABAA receptors.
The present study investigated the ability of a light and tone (LT) compound stimulus paired with cocaine infusions to reinstate cocaine-seeking behavior. Rats were trained to self-administer cocaine in the presence or absence of the LT during daily 3-hr sessions (maintenance). During Maintenance Days 5 and 10, rats underwent classical conditioning, whereby passive cocaine infusions were paired with either short-delayed, random, or no presentations of an LT. After extinction sessions, rats underwent test sessions in which the LT was presented in a noncontingent or response-contingent manner to measure conditioned cocaine-seeking behavior. The results demonstrated that response-contingent LT presentations significantly increased cocaine-seeking behavior and that the LT trained in a classical conditioning format transferred to an operant secondary reinforcer.
The medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) plays a critical role in conditioned autonomic adjustments but is not involved in classically conditioned somatomotor responses unless the training conditions include reversal or trace conditioning. The studies showing these effects have all used pretraining lesions. The present study assessed the effects of posttraining lesions on eyeblink (EB) and heart rate (HR) conditioned responses (CRs) in both delay and trace conditioning paradigms in the rabbit (Oryctolagus cuniculus). Posttraining lesions lowered the percentage of EB CRs during retesting compared with pretesting levels for both delay and trace conditioning. Control lesions and pretraining lesions produced no significant effects during retesting. Posttraining lesions had no effect on the HR CR. These findings suggest that a critical mechanism in the mPFC is involved in retrieval of information during EB conditioning but that the mPFC integration of autonomic and somatomotor processes is not critical to this retrieval process.



Xenopus oocytes express mechanosensitive (MS(XO)) channels that can be studied in excised patches of membrane with the patch-clamp technique. This study examines the steady-state kinetic gating properties of MS(XO) channels using detailed single-channel analysis. The open and closed one-dimensional dwell-time distributions were described by the sums of 2-3 open and 5-7 closed exponential components, respectively, indicating that the channels enter at least 2-3 open and 5-7 closed kinetic states during gating. Dependency plots revealed that the durations of adjacent open and closed intervals were correlated, indicating two or more gateway states in the gating mechanism for MS channels. Maximum likelihood fitting of two-dimensional dwell-time distributions to both generic and specific models was used to examine gating mechanism and rank models. A kinetic scheme with five closed and five open states, in which each closed state could make a direct transition to an open state (two-tiered model) could account for the major features of the single-channel data. Two-tiered models that allowed direct transitions to subconductance open states in addition to the fully open state were also consistent with multiple gateway states. Thus, the gating mechanism of MS(XO) channels differs from the sequential (linear) gating mechanisms considered for MS channels in bacteria, chick skeletal muscle, and Necturus proximal tubule.
We have developed a convenient and sensitive method for the quantification of RNA in samples from microbiopsies. This procedure is especially suitable for quantitating very small amounts of RNA in large-scale biological samples. This method, using a microarray-spotting facility for the study of multigenic expression, entails the hybridization of a DNA probe with RNA spotted at high density on nylon membrane. Furthermore, with this procedure, the reproducibility, sensitivity, and accuracy of the assay are notably improved as compared to current methods.

Incapacitating and drug-resistant posttraumatic movement disorders have successfully been treated by stereotactic thalamotomy. We describe the case of a young man with a posttraumatic hemiballismoid type movement disorder of the left arm, persistent for 2 years, who was selected for treatment with a thalamic deep brain stimulator. However, placement of the stimulating electrode tip at the junction of the zona incerta and subthalamic regions caused abolition of the movement disorder, and the pulse generator was not required. Reassessment over a 44-month period using multiple clinical and functional tests has confirmed continued benefit. This case adds to the reports of alleviation of movement disorders following either stereotactic thalamic mapping or placement of stimulating electrodes without macroscopic thalamic lesioning.
Abstract Because of their potential to regulate tumoural blood flow and interactions with nitric oxide the expression of the type 1 and 2 isoforms of heme oxygenase (HO-1 and HO-2) were evaluated in implanted C6 striatal gliomas. Immunocytochemistry using antibodies specific for HO-1 and HO-2 were used in 20 C6 glioma tumours. The bulk of the tumour parenchyma and endothelium was negative for both HO isoforms. Isolated, but weak staining for HO-1 was seen in most tumours with focally increased expression in perinecrotic regions. Cells morphologically resembling macrophages stained with both HO-1 and HO-2, but were not numerous. These findings suggest that carbon monoxide, unlike nitric oxide, does not have a major role in regulating tumoural blood flow in this experimental glioma model. These findings once again demonstrate the differences between human malignant glioma and experimental implantation glioma models.
1. The roles of the endothelium-derived nitric oxide, prostacyclin and endothelium-derived hyperpolarizing factor (EDHF) in mediating vasodilator responses to acetylcholine and bradykinin were assessed in the ciliary vascular bed of the bovine isolated perfused eye preparation. 2. Vasodilatation to acetylcholine or bradykinin was unaffected by the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, L-NAME (100 microM), or the cyclo-oxygenase inhibitor, flurbiprofen (30 microM), but was virtually abolished following treatment with a high concentration of KCl (30 mM), or by damaging the endothelium with the detergent, CHAPS (0.3%, 2 min). 3. Acetylcholine-induced vasodilatation was unaffected by glibenclamide (10 microM), an inhibitor of ATP-sensitive K(+) channels (K(+)(ATP)), but was significantly attenuated by TEA (10 mM), a non-selective inhibitor of K(+) channels. 4. The small conductance calcium-sensitive K(+) channel (SK(+)(Ca)) inhibitor, apamin (100 nM), and the large conductance calcium-sensitive K(+) channel (BK(+)(Ca)) inhibitor, iberiotoxin (50 nM), had no significant effect on acetylcholine-induced vasodilatation. In contrast, the intermediate (IK(+)(Ca))/large conductance calcium-sensitive K(+) channel inhibitor, charybdotoxin (50 nM), powerfully blocked these vasodilator responses, and uncovered a vasoconstrictor response. 5. The combination of apamin (100 nM) with a sub-threshold concentration of charybdotoxin (10 nM) significantly attenuated acetylcholine-induced vasodilatation, but the combination of apamin (100 nM) with iberiotoxin (50 nM) had no effect. 6. In conclusion, blockade by a high concentration of KCl, by charybdotoxin, or by the combination of apamin with a sub-threshold concentration of charybdotoxin, strongly suggests that vasodilatation in the bovine isolated perfused eye is mediated by an EDHF.
1. We tested the hypothesis that sensory nerves innervating blood vessels play a role in the local and systemic regulation of the cardiovascular and respiratory (CVR) systems. We measured CVR reflexes evoked by administration of anandamide (86 - 863 nmoles) and capsaicin (0.3 - 10 nmoles) into the hindlimb vasculature of anaesthetized rats. 2. Anandamide and capsaicin each caused a rapid dose-dependent reflex fall in blood pressure and an increase in ventilation when injected intra-arterially into the hindlimb. 3. Action of both agonists at the vanilloid receptor (VR1) on perivascular sensory nerves was investigated using capsazepine (1 mg kg(-1) i.a.) a competitive VR1 antagonist, ruthenium red (1 mg kg(-1) i.a.), a non-competitive antagonist at VR1, or a desensitizing dose of capsaicin (200 nmoles i.a.). The cannabinoid receptor antagonist SR141716 (1 mg kg(-1) i.a.) was used to determine agonist activity at the CB(1) receptor. 4. Capsazepine, ruthenium red, or acute VR1 desensitization by capsaicin-pretreatment, markedly attenuated the reflex CVR responses evoked by anandamide and capsaicin (P&lt; 0.05; paired Student's t-test). Blockade of CB(1) had no significant effect on the responses to anandamide. 5. Local sectioning of the femoral and sciatic nerves attenuated CVR responses to anandamide and capsaicin (P&lt; 0.05). Vagotomy or carotid sinus sectioning had no significant effect on anandamide- or capsaicin-induced responses. 6. These data demonstrate that both the endogenous cannabinoid, anandamide, and the vanilloid, capsaicin, evoke CVR reflexes when injected intra-arterially into the rat hindlimb. These responses appear to be mediated reflexly via VR1 located on sensory nerve endings within the hindlimb vasculature.

Professional and amateur participants in many sports are at risk of brain injury caused by impact with other players or objects. In many cases, mild cognitive deficits may persist after the common neurological signs of brain injury have passed. In recent years, the athlete's cognitive status after concussion has been measured with conventional &quot;paper and pencil&quot; neuropsychological tests. However, such tests are not ideal for sporting settings, as they are designed for the detection of gross cognitive impairments at a single assessment, not for the identification of mild cognitive deficits on repeated assessment. A number of computerised cognitive assessment tests and test batteries have been developed over the past two decades. These batteries offer major scientific and practical advantages over conventional neuropsychological tests which make them ideal for the assessment of cognitive function in sportspeople. This review first describes the problems associated with cognitive assessment of people with sports related cognitive deficits, and then critically examines the utility of conventional neuropsychological and computerised cognitive tests in sporting settings.
Goal-directed behaviour depends on keeping relevant information in mind (working memory) and irrelevant information out of mind (behavioural inhibition or interference resolution). Prefrontal cortex is essential for working memory and for interference resolution, but it is unknown whether these two mental abilities are mediated by common or distinct prefrontal regions. To address this question, functional MRI was used to identify brain regions activated by separate manipulations of working memory load and interference within a single task (the Sternberg item recognition paradigm). Both load and interference manipulations were associated with performance decrements. Subjects were unaware of the interference manipulation. There was a high degree of overlap between the regions activated by load and interference, which included bilateral ventrolateral and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, anterior insula, anterior cingulate and parietal cortex. Critically, no region was activated exclusively by interference. Several regions within this common network exhibited a brain-behaviour correlation across subjects for the load or interference manipulation. Activation within the right middle frontal gyrus and left inferior frontal gyrus was correlated with the ability to resolve interference efficiently, but not the ability to manage an increased working memory load efficiently. Conversely, activation of the anterior cingulate was correlated with load susceptibility, but was not correlated with interference susceptibility. These findings suggest that, within the circuitry engaged by this task, some regions are more critically involved in the resolution of interference whereas others are more involved in the resolution of an increase in load. The anterior cingulate was engaged to a greater extent by the load than interference manipulation, suggesting that this region, which is thought to be involved in detecting the need for greater allocation of attentional resources, may be particularly implicated during awareness of the need for cognitive control. In the present study, interference resolution did not involve recruitment of additional inhibitory circuitry, but was instead mediated by a subset of the neural system supporting working memory.
Processing the human face is at the focal point of most social interactions, yet this simple perceptual task is difficult for individuals with autism, a population that spends limited amounts of time engaged in face-to-face eye contact or social interactions in general. Thus, the study of face processing in autism is not only important because it may be integral to understanding the social deficits of this disorder, but also, because it provides a unique opportunity to study experiential factors related to the functional specialization of normal face processing. In short, autism may be one of the only disorders where affected individuals spend reduced amounts of time engaged in face processing from birth. Using functional MRI, haemodynamic responses during a face perception task were compared between adults with autism and normal control subjects. Four regions of interest (ROIs), the fusiform gyrus (FG), inferior temporal gyrus, middle temporal gyrus and amygdala were manually traced on non-spatially normalized images and the percentage ROI active was calculated for each subject. Analyses in Talairach space were also performed. Overall results revealed either abnormally weak or no activation in FG in autistic patients, as well as significantly reduced activation in the inferior occipital gyrus, superior temporal sulcus and amygdala. Anatomical abnormalities, in contrast, were present only in the amygdala in autistic patients, whose mean volume was significantly reduced as compared with normals. Reaction time and accuracy measures were not different between groups. Thus, while autistic subjects could perform the face perception task, none of the regions supporting face processing in normals were found to be significantly active in the autistic subjects. Instead, in every autistic patient, faces maximally activated aberrant and individual-specific neural sites (e.g. frontal cortex, primary visual cortex, etc.), which was in contrast to the 100% consistency of maximal activation within the traditional fusiform face area (FFA) for every normal subject. It appears that, as compared with normal individuals, autistic individuals 'see' faces utilizing different neural systems, with each patient doing so via a unique neural circuitry. Such a pattern of individual-specific, scattered activation seen in autistic patients in contrast to the highly consistent FG activation seen in normals, suggests that experiential factors do indeed play a role in the normal development of the FFA.
By systematically reviewing the literature, we have found that there is very little information about the frequency and clinical course of arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) of the brain in adults because the methods of most studies have been flawed, and AVMs tend to be treated once they are discovered. The incidence of AVMs is approximately 1 per 100 000 per year in unselected populations, and the point prevalence in adults is approximately 18 per 100 000. AVMs account for between 1 and 2% of all strokes, 3% of strokes in young adults, 9% of subarachnoid haemorrhages and, of all primary intracerebral haemorrhages, they are responsible for 4% overall, but for as much as one-third in young adults. AVMs are far less common causes of first presentations with unprovoked seizures (1%), and of people presenting with headaches in the absence of neurological signs (0.3%). At the time of detection, at least 15% of people affected by AVMs are asymptomatic, about one-fifth present with seizures and for approximately two-thirds of them the dominant mode of presentation is with intracranial haemorrhage. The limited high quality data available on prognosis suggest that long-term crude annual case fatality is 1-1.5%, the crude annual risk of first occurrence of haemorrhage from an unruptured AVM is approximately 2%, but the risk of recurrent haemorrhage may be as high as 18% in the first year, with uncertainty about the risk thereafter. For untreated AVMs, the annual risk of developing de novo seizures is 1%. There is a pressing need for large, prospective studies of the frequency and clinical course of AVMs in well-defined, stable populations, taking account of their prognostic heterogeneity.
Oxidative stress and lipid peroxidation may contribute to the pathology of neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) and cerebral ischemia. 4-Hydroxynonenal (4-HNE) is a toxic by-product of lipid peroxidation, and immunoreactivity to 4-HNE has been used to examine lipid peroxidation in the pathogenesis of AD and ischemia. This study sought to determine 1) if there are cellular alterations in 4-HNE immunoreactivity in the human hippocampus after global ischemia, and 2) whether possession of an apolipoprotein E (APOE) epsilon4 allele influenced the extent of 4-HNE immunoreactivity. 4-HNE immunoreactivity was assessed semi-quantitatively in the temporal lobe of a group of controls (n = 44) and in a group of patients who had an episode of global ischemia as a result of a cardiorespiratory arrest and subsequently died (n = 56, survival ranged from 1hr to 42 days). There was minimal cellular 4-HNE immunoreactivity in the control group. However, compared to controls, 4-HNE immunoreactivity was significantly increased in neurons (p &lt; 0.0002) and glia (p &lt; 0.0001) in the hippocampal formation after global ischemia. Possession of an APOE epsilon4 allele did not influence the extent of neuronal or glial 4-HNE immunostaining in the control or global ischemia group. There was a significant negative correlation between the extent of neuronal 4-HNE immunoreactivity with survival period after global ischemia (r2 = 0.0801; p &lt; 0.036) and a significant positive correlation between the extent of glial 4-HNE immunoreactivity and survival after global ischemia (r2 = 0.2958; p &lt; 0.0001). The data indicate a marked increase in neuronal and glial 4-HNE. This substantiates a role for lipid peroxidation in the pathogenesis of cerebral ischemia. There was no indication that APOE genotype influenced the extent of 4-HNE immunoreactivity.
Relating to the protocol by Mikki et al. [Brain Res. Protocols 2 (1997) 9-16], the use of an image analysis system is recommended in place of micrographs and photoprints for the counting and measuring of neuronal nuclei.
Verotoxin receptor is a globotriaosylceramide (Gb3) present on vascular endothelial cells, in which the toxin causes hemolytic uremic syndrome. We established a sensitive method of immunohistochemical staining in serial sections using monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) against verotoxin and glycolipids that includes Gb3 and galactosylGb3 (GalGb3). With it, we showed co-localization of the verotoxin receptor and Gb3 in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) of humans, rabbits, rats and mice. We also used a very simple method to identify the presence of lipofuscin-like autofluorescence which complicates fluorescence microscopy observation of aged human nervous tissues.
For such complex endeavours as understanding functions of the nervous system and treating patients with impairments of such functions, a continuous exchange of ideas in mutually understandable language is needed between researchers and clinicians. Neither of them is capable in the long run of doing justice to the scientific aspects of neuroscience and neurology and to the expectation of the patients on his or her own. It should become possible to bridge the gap between caring for patients and a scientific understanding of the mechanisms by which certain therapies work and the measurement of performance and outcome which is important for the credibility of interventions. The scientific approach to neurology has led to remarkable improvements in understanding some of the disease processes and to some valuable new therapies. There is no fundamental contradiction, however, between this approach and the pastoral aspects of medical care.
Steinert's myotonic dystrophy (DM) is a genetic autosomal dominant disease and the most frequent muscular dystrophy in adulthood. Although causative mutation is recognized as a CTG trinucleotide expansion on 19q13.3, pathogenic mechanisms of multisystem involvement of DM are still under debate. It has been suggested that mitochondrial abnormalities can occur in this disease and deficiency of coenzyme Q 10 (CoQ10) has been considered one possible cause for this. The aim of this investigation was to evaluate, in 35 DM patients, CoQ10 blood levels and relate them to the degree of CTG expansion as well as to the amount of lactate production in exercising muscle as indicator of mitochondrial dysfunction. CoQ10 concentrations appeared significantly reduced with respect to normal controls: 0.85 +/- 0.25 vs. 1.58 +/- 0.28 microg/ml (p &lt; 0.05). Mean values of blood lactate were significantly higher in DM patients than controls (p &lt; 0.05) both in resting conditions (2.9 +/- 0.55 vs. 1.44 +/- 1.11 mmol/L) and at the exercise peak (6.77 +/- 1.79 vs. 4.90 +/- 0.59 mmol/L), while exercise lactate threshold was anticipated (30-50% vs. 60-70% of the predicted normal maximal power output, p &lt; 0.05). Statistical analysis showed that serum CoQ10 levels were significantly (p &lt; 0.05) inversely correlated with both CTG expansion degree and lactate values at exercise lactate threshold level. Our data indicates the occurrence of reduced CoQ10 levels in DM, possibly related to disease pathogenic mechanisms associated with abnormal CTG trinucleotide amplification.
In hereditary Huntington's disease, a triplet repeat disease, there is extensive loss of striatal neurons. It has been shown that brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) protects striatal neurons against a variety of insults. We confirmed that BDNF enhances survival and DARPP-32 expression in primary striatal cultures derived from postnatal mice. Furthermore, BDNF inhibited intracellular oxyradical stress triggered by dopamine, and partially blocked basal and dopamine-induced apoptosis. Nevertheless, BDNF failed to rescue striatal neurons from dopamine-induced cell death. Therefore, BDNF inhibits free radical and apoptotic pathways in medium spiny neurons, but does so downstream from the point of commitment to cell death.
Expansion of unstable DNA regions containing trinucleotide/tandem repeats (TNRs) represents a common genetic mutation in hereditary forms of neurological disorders. The spectrum of neurological diseases linked to TNR expansions has recently broadened to include conditions with both dominant and recessive inheritance and those with or without clinical anticipation. In view of the frequent involvement of the spinal cord in neurodegenerative disorders, we have analysed this key tissue to identify pathological TNRs. We have used two approaches to isolate a wide range of trinucleotide/tandem repeat-containing transcripts (TNRTs) from human spinal cord, firstly a polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based method and secondly by screening a spinal cord cDNA library immobilised on a membrane. Overall, 97 TNRTs belonging to a number of key protein families, the most highly represented being transcription factors, intracellular signalling molecules and cytoskeletal proteins, have been isolated most of which have not previously been considered as potential disease-causing genes. The commonest repeat motifs found in our study were CAG (37%) and CCG (24%). Known genes involved in DNA repeat expansion-related neurological disorders (e.g., AAD10, Ataxin-3, Huntingtin) were detected which validated our methods. We have characterised homogeneous TNRs among the detected gene candidates in a search for potential pathological repeat expansions. The potential role of the gene candidates identified is discussed in terms of their contribution to neurodegenerative processes.
Novel sensorimotor situations present a unique challenge to an individual's adaptive ability. Using the simple and easily measured paradigm of visual-motor rearrangement created by the use of visual displacement lenses, we sought to determine whether an individual's ability to adapt to visuo-motor discordance could be improved through training. Subjects threw small balls at a stationary target during a 3-week practice regimen involving repeated exposure to one set of lenses in block practice (x 2.0 magnifying lenses), multiple sets of lenses in variable practice (x 2.0 magnifying, x 0.5 minifying and up-down reversing lenses) or sham lenses. At the end of training, adaptation to a novel visuo-motor situation (20-degree right shift lenses) was tested. We found that (1) training with variable practice can increase adaptability to a novel visuo-motor situation, (2) increased adaptability is retained for at least 1 month and is transferable to further novel visuo-motor permutations and (3) variable practice improves performance of a simple motor task even in the undisturbed state. These results have implications for the design of clinical rehabilitation programs and countermeasures to enhance astronaut adaptability, facilitating adaptive transitions between gravitational environments.
The author investigated the extent to which self-reported early object loss and Thematic Apperception Test (TAT) measures of object relations differentiated individuals with a depressive personality from dysthymic persons and highly dependent individuals. In an undergraduate analogue sample of 54 students, those with a depressive personality reported a nonsignificantly higher proportion of object loss than did dysthymic and highly dependent participants. Those in the depressive personality and dependent groups had less complex representations of others than did those with dysthymia, and those with a depressive personalitiy and dysthymia tended to view others in a more negative, pessimistic fashion than did the highly dependent individuals. The author concludes that persons with a depressive personality can be identified, in part, by their experience of object loss and their distinctive object relations.

It is known that ATP acts as an extracellular messenger mediating Ca2+ signalling in glial cells. Here, the mechanisms involved in the ATP-evoked increase in glial [Ca2+]i were studied in situ, in the acutely isolated rat optic nerve. ATP and agonists for P2X (a,b-metATP) and P2Y (2MeSATP) purinoreceptors triggered raised glial [Ca2+]i, and there was no significant difference between cells identified morphologically as astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. Dose-response curves indicated that P2Y receptors were activated at nanomolar concentrations, whereas P2X purinoreceptors were only activated above 10 microM. The rank order of potency for several agonists indicated optic nerve glia expressed heterogeneous purinoreceptors, with P2Y1&lt; or = P2Y2/4&lt; or = P2X. The ATP evoked increase in [Ca2+]i was reversibly blocked by the P2X/Y purinoreceptor antagonist suramin (100 microM) and markedly reduced by thapsigargin (10 microM), which blocks IP3-dependent release of Ca2+ from intracellular stores. Removal of extracellular Ca2+ reduced the ATP evoked increase in [Ca2+]i and completely blocked its recovery, indicating that refilling of intracellular stores was ultimately dependent on Ca2+ influx from the extracellular milieu. The results implicate ATP as an important signal in CNS white matter astrocytes and oligodendrocytes in situ, and indicate that metabotropic P2Y purinoreceptors mobilize intracellular Ca2+ at physiological concentrations of ATP, whereas ionotropic P2X purinoreceptors induce Ca2+ influx across the plasmalemma only at high concentrations of ATP, such as occur following CNS injury.
In this study, the causes, predisposing factors and clinical features of chronic daily headache in children and adolescents were studied within the population of patients attending a specialist headache. The International Headache Society's (IHS) criteria for the diagnosis of chronic tension type headache (CTTH) were assessed for their applicability in the paediatric age group. Over a period of three years, demographic and clinical data were collected prospectively on all children who attended the clinic and suffered from daily attacks of headache. One hundred and fifteen children and adolescents (32% of all clinic population) had chronic daily headache, of whom 93 patients (81%) fulfilled the IHS criteria for the diagnosis of CTTH. They were between 3-15 years of age (mean: 11.1, SD: 2.3) and their female to male ratio was 1.2 : 1. Around one third of the patients also suffered from migraine (mainly migraine without aura). The headache was described as mild in 60.9%, moderate 36.5% and severe 2.6%. Headache was located at the forehead in 53% or over the whole of the head in 29.6%. Pain was described as 'just sore' or dull by 73.9%. During attacks of headache, at least half the patients reported light intolerance, noise intolerance, anorexia or nausea. Thirty-two percent of patients had at least one underlying chronic disease that may have contributed to the pathogenesis of the CTTH. Eleven percent had serious stressful events related to family illnesses and in four patients headaches were triggered by family bereavement. Fourteen percent were investigated with neuroimaging and 22% were referred for clinical psychology assessment and management. In conclusion, CTTH is a common cause of headache in children attending a specialist headache clinic. The clinical features closely match those of adult population and the IHS criteria for the diagnosis of CTTH can be adapted for use in children. Predisposing stressful risk factors, physical or emotional, are present in a large proportion.
The prefrontal cortex encompasses a large and heterogeneous set of areas, whose borders have been variously mapped in different architectonic studies. Differences in cortical maps present a formidable problem in comparing data across studies and in constructing databanks on the connections and functional attributes of cortical areas. Here we used quantitative approaches to cortical mapping to investigate (i) if architectonic areas of the prefrontal cortex in adult rhesus monkeys have unique profiles and (ii) if groups of architectonic areas belonging to distinct cortical types, ranging from agranular to eulaminate, have similar features. In addition, we used multidimensional analyses to see if, and how, prefrontal areas form clusters when multiple features are considered simultaneously. We used quantitative unbiased sampling procedures to estimate the areal and laminar density of neurons, glia and neurons positive for the calcium binding proteins parvalbumin (PV), calbindin (CB) and calretinin (CR) among 21 prefrontal areas or subdivisions of areas. Neuronal density varied among the prefrontal cortices (range: 38 569 +/- 4078 to 58 708 +/- 2327 neurons/mm(3)); it was lowest in caudal orbitofrontal and medial areas (OPAll, OPro, 13, 24a, 32, M25) and highest in lateral prefrontal areas (subdivisions of areas 46 and 8). Neurons positive for PV were most prevalent in lateral prefrontal areas and least prevalent in caudal orbitofrontal and medial pre-frontal areas, whereas the opposite trend was noted for neurons that expressed CB. Neurons positive for CR did not show regional differences, and the density of glia showed small variations among prefrontal cortices. The differences among areas, along with differences in the thickness of individual areas and layers, were used to establish a quantitative profile for each area. The results showed that differences in the density of neurons, and the preponderance of neurons positive for PV and CB, were related to different architectonic types of areas found within the prefrontal cortex. Conventional as well as multiparameter statistical analyses distinguished at one extreme the agranular and dysgranular (limbic) cortices, which were characterized by prominent deep layers (V-VI), the lowest neuronal density, the highest ratio of glia/neurons, and the lowest density of PV and the highest for CB. At the other extreme, lateral eulaminate cortices were characterized by the highest density of neurons, a prominent granular layer IV, denser supragranular (II-III) than infragranular (V-VI) layers, and a balanced distribution of neurons positive for PV and CB. The results provide insights into potentially different rates of development or maturation of limbic and eulaminate prefrontal areas, and their differential vulnerability in neurological and psychiatric diseases. The quantitative methods used provide an objective approach to construct maps, address differences in nomenclature across studies, establish homologies in different species and provide a baseline to identify changes in pathologic conditions.
The present study assessed the functional consequences of viral infection with a neurotropic coronavirus, designated MHV OBLV, that specifically targets central olfactory structures. Using standard operant techniques and a 'go, no-go' successive discrimination paradigm, six BALB/c mice were trained to discriminate between the presentation of an air or odor stimulus (three mice for each of the odorants propanol and propyl acetate). Two additional BALB/c mice were trained to discriminate between the presentation of air and the presentation of either vanillin or propionic acid. Following criterion performance, each mouse received an additional 2000 trials of overtraining. At completion of overtraining one mouse from the propanol and propyl acetate groups were allocated as untreated. The remaining six mice were inoculated with 300 microl of the OBLV stock per nostril for a total of 1.5 x 10(6) p.f.u. in 600 microl. Following a 1 month rest, untreated and inoculated animals were again tested on their respective air versus odor discrimination task. Untreated animals immediately performed at criterion levels. In contrast, inoculated animals varied in their capacity to discriminate between air and odorant. Five of the six inoculated mice showed massive disruption of the olfactory bulb, including death of mitral cells; the other was more modestly affected. In addition, the density of innervation of the olfactory mucosa by substance P-containing trigeminal fibers is also affected by inoculation. Those mice that remained anosmic to the training odorants had the most severe reduction in mitral cell number and substance P fiber density among the inoculated animals.
In summary, despite these widely accepted interdisciplinary perspectives on the role of culture, the DSM framework lacks a culturally meaningful usage. For Kleinman, the changes on culture in the DSM-IV were &quot;too little, too late.&quot; The cultural formulation and a glossary of culture-bound syndromes were included in its appendix. The acceptance by the DSM-IV task force of the notion of cultural variations in clinical presentation of disorders may be reflective of changes to come in the future. The current DSM-IV has more of a descriptive psycho-pathologic approach rather than an integrated cross-cultural, psychobiologic, developmental approach, however. The developmental perspective in psychiatry is emerging as a &quot;bridge&quot; for consilience through evidence-based scientific understanding and conciliation through clinical practice. This perspective is unique because it is intrinsic to different aspects of psychiatry. It readily accommodates the descriptive-empirical model by means of concepts borrowed from developmental psychopathology and psychobiology. These concepts include normalcy, life cycle, risk and resilience, and protective mechanisms within a dynamic construction of development that involves an interchange among biology-person-society-culture. The developmental perspective also can make important contributions to a process-oriented approach to measurement beyond a textually defined DSM structure. The developmentally operationalized dimensional constructs offer to expand psychiatry's domains beyond diagnosable conditions and illness boundaries. The developmental perspective argues for early preventive and therapeutic interventions for a broad array of applications based on demonstrated evidence of efficacy. Finally, the developmental perspective with its social and cultural contexts is an intrinsic complement to Kandel's framework for an expanded training of psychiatrists in the neurosciences and the associated innovative technologies for understanding the mechanism of structural and functional changes in the brain in various contexts and categories.

The ageing process is characterized by a progressive loss of function and a decline in the functional capacities of the organism, leading to death. The nature of the processes involved in loss of functions is not well understood. A number of theories have been proposed, including a hypothesis that emphasizes the role of reactive oxygen species as a fundamental causal factor in the ageing process; among other things, oxidative damage to proteins through reactive oxygen species plays a key role in the ageing process. Oxidative modification of proteins generally causes them to become dysfunctional, and normally to undergo preferential degradation. Within the cell the main proteolytic machinery involved in the degradation of oxidized proteins is the proteasomal system, consisting of a multicatalytic protease complex--the proteasome--and numerous regulatory factors. The proteasome is a highly conserved structure that is distributed in the cytosol, nucleus and endoplasmatic reticulum of mammalian cells. As the proteasome itself is also exposed to oxidative stress during the ageing process several studies were carried out to investigate the role and the activity of the proteasomal system during ageing. This review will describe current knowledge of the activity of the protesomal system and its possible involvement in the ageing process.



This study examined the effects of dopamine D(2)-receptor blockade on the early decrease in maximal heart rate at high altitude (4559 m). We also attempted to clarify the time-dependent component of this reduction and the extent to which it is reversed by oxygen breathing. Twelve subjects performed two consecutive maximal exercise tests, without and with oxygen supplementation respectively, at sea level and after 1, 3 and 5 days at altitude. On each study day, domperidone (30 mg; n=6) or no medication (n=6) was given 1 h before the first exercise session. Compared with sea level, hypoxia progressively decreased the maximal heart rate from day 1 and onwards; also, hypoxia by itself increased plasma noradrenaline levels after maximal exercise. Domperidone further increased maximal noradrenaline concentrations, but had no effect on maximal heart rate. On each study day at altitude, oxygen breathing completely reversed the decrease in maximal heart rate to values not different from those at sea level. In conclusion, dopamine D(2)-receptor blockade with domperidone demonstrates that hypoxic exercise in humans activates D(2)-receptors, resulting in a decrease in circulating levels of noradrenaline. However, dopamine D(2)-receptors are not involved in the hypoxia-induced decrease in the maximal heart rate. These data suggest that receptor uncoupling, and not down-regulation, of cardiac adrenoreceptors, is responsible for the early decrease in heart rate at maximal hypoxic exercise.
The intrinsic flexibility of functional magnetic resonance imaging has allowed ever more innovative neuroscience applications. New acquisition and analysis techniques have contributed to improvements in detection sensitivity, as well as spatial and temporal resolution. Furthermore, by considering the dynamic evolution of the active brain areas in a network, computational models are making the first steps towards linking brain and mind.
Noninvasive imaging technologies provide a unique window on the anatomy, physiology and function of living organisms. Imaging systems and methods have been developed for the study of small animal model systems that offer exciting new possibilities in neuroscience. Advances in magnetic resonance microscopy and positron emission tomography, and their applications in brain imaging, have provided many benefits to neurobiology, ranging from detailed in vivo neuroanatomy to the measurement of specific molecular targets.

In many organisms, single neural stem cells can generate both neurons and glia. How are these different cell types produced from a common precursor? In Drosophila, glial cells missing (gcm) is necessary and sufficient to induce glial development in the CNS. gcm mRNA has been reported to be asymmetrically localized to daughter cells during precursor cell division, allowing the daughter cell to produce glia while precursor cell generates neurons. We show that (1) gcm mRNA is uniformly distributed during precursor cell divisions; (2) the Prospero transcription factor is asymmetrically localized into the glial-producing daughter cell; (3) Prospero is required to upregulate gcm expression and induce glial development; and (4) mislocalization of Prospero to the precursor cell leads to ectopic gcm expression and the production of extra glia. We propose a novel model for the separation of glia and neuron fates in mixed lineages in which the asymmetric localization of Prospero results in upregulation of gcm expression and initiation of glial development in only precursor daughter cells.

It is widely accepted that developmental dyslexia results from some sort of phonological deficit. Yet, it can be argued that phonological representations and their processing have been insufficiently tested in dyslexia research. Firstly, claims about how tasks tap into certain kinds of representations or processes are best appreciated in the light of an explicit information-processing model. Here, a cognitive model of lexical access is described, incorporating speech perception, reading and object recognition. The model emphasizes that phonological forms of lexical items are distinct from non-lexical phonological representations. Secondly, phonology, as a linguistic discipline, teaches us that there is much more to it than phonemic categorization and awareness. The phonological level of representation also embodies phonotactic regularities, patterns of phoneme assimilation and alternation, as well as supra-segmental knowledge pertaining to syllable structure, stress, intonation and rhythm. All these aspects are in part language-dependent, and therefore must be learnt by children in order to become proficient native speakers and listeners. If phonological representations were affected in dyslexia, dyslexic children would presumably have difficulties acquiring these aspects of their language. This prediction is as yet untested. A possible research agenda is outlined, aiming to provide a more comprehensive assessment of the phonological theory of dyslexia.
The recently discovered hormone, ghrelin, has been recognized as an important regulator of GH secretion and energy homeostasis. Orexigenic and adipogenic ghrelin is produced by the stomach, intestine, placenta, pituitary, and possibly in the hypothalamus. The concentration of circulating ghrelin, principally derived from the stomach, is influenced by acute and chronic changes in nutritional state. To date, most studies focused on the role of ghrelin in GH secretion or its function in complementing leptin action to prevent energy deficits. The potential significance of ghrelin in the etiology of obesity and cachexia as well as in the regulation of growth processes is the subject of ongoing discussions. A large quantity of information based on clinical trials and experimental studies with ghrelin and previously available synthetic ghrelin receptor agonists (GH secretagogues) must now be integrated with a rapidly increasing amount of data on the central regulation of metabolism and appetite. In this overview, we summarize recent findings and strategies on the integration of ghrelin into neuroendocrine networks that regulate energy homeostasis.
The pro-inflammatory cytokines, including tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and interleukin (IL)-6, contribute to the exacerbation of pathophysiological conditions in the lung. The regulation of cytokines involves the reduction-oxidation (redox)-sensitive nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB), the activation of which is mediated through an upstream kinase that regulates the phosphorylation and subsequent degradation of inhibitory-kappaB (IkappaB)-alpha, the major cytosolic inhibitor of NF-kappaB. It was hypothesized that lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced biosynthesis of TNF-alpha and IL-6 in vitro is tightly regulated by redox equilibrium. Furthermore, the likely involvement of the IkappaB-alpha/NF-kappaB signalling transduction pathway in mediating redox-dependent regulation of LPS-induced cytokine biosynthesis was revealed. Using alveolar epithelial cells, the role of L-buthionine-(S,R)-sulfoximine (BSO), a specific and irreversible inhibitor of gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase (gamma-GCS), the rate-limiting enzyme in glutathione (GSH - an antioxidant thiol) biosynthesis, in regulating LPS-mediated TNF-alpha and IL-6 production and the IkappaB-alpha/NF-kappaB signalling pathway was investigated. Pre-treatment with BSO, prior to exposure to LPS augmented, in a dose-dependent manner, LPS-induced TNF-alpha and IL-6 biosynthesis, an effect associated with the induction of intracellular accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Interestingly, BSO blocked the phosphorylation of IkappaB-alpha, reduced its degradation, thereby allowing its cytosolic accumulation, and subsequently inhibited the activation of NF-kappaB. These results indicate that there are ROS and redox-mediated effects regulating pro-inflammatory cytokines, and that the IkappaB-alpha/NF-kappaB pathway is redox-sensitive and differentially involved in mediating redox-dependent regulation of cytokine signaling.
Modulation of cortico-cortical connectivity in specific neural circuits might underlie some of the behavioural effects observed following repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) of the human frontal cortex. This possibility was tested by applying rTMS to the left mid-dorsolateral frontal cortex (MDL-FC) and subsequently measuring functional connectivity of this region with positron emission tomography (PET) and TMS. The results showed a strong rTMS-related modulation of brain activity in the fronto-cingulate circuit. These results were confirmed in a parallel experiment in the rat using electrical stimulation and field-potential recordings. Future studies are needed to provide a direct link between the rTMS-induced modulation of cortical connectivity and its effects on specific behaviours.
The expression of functional GABA(A)-receptors in glioma cells correlates with low malignancy of tumours and cell lines from glioma lack these receptors. Here we show that contact with neurons induces the expression of functional GABA(A)-receptors. C6 and F98 glioma cell lines were labelled by recombinant expression of enhanced green fluorescent protein injected into rat brain and studied in acute slices after two to three weeks of tumour growth. The cells responded to GABA or the specific agonist, muscimol with a current typical for GABA(A)-receptors, as studied with the patch-clamp technique. To get insight into the mechanism of GABA(A) receptor induction, the C6 or F98 cells were co-cultured with neurons, astrocytes, oligodendrocytes and microglia. Glioma cells expressed functional GABA(A) receptors within 24 h only in cultures where physical contact to neurons occurred. Activation of GABA(A)-receptors in the co-cultures attenuated glioma cell metabolism while blockade of the receptors increased metabolism. We conclude that with this form of interaction, neurons can influence tumour behaviour in the brain.
Current knowledge of the molecular changes induced by dopamine denervation and subsequent treatment with L-DOPA is based on studies performed on relatively acute and young animal models of parkinsonism. It is highly warranted to ask how well these models simulate the state of chronic denervation and sustained L-DOPA pharmacotherapy which are typical of advanced Parkinson's disease. This study investigates the effects of time postdenervation and L-dopa treatment duration on the striatal expression of opioid precursor mRNAs and FosB/DeltaFosB-related proteins. Unilaterally 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats were treated with therapeutical doses of L-DOPA for one year (long-term group) or a few weeks (short-term group). Age-matched lesioned rats received injections of vehicle or bromocriptine, an antiparkinsonian compound which does not produce dyskinesia when administered de novo. The lesion-induced up-regulation of preproenkephalin mRNA expression persisted at more than one year postlesion, and was unaffected by the pharmacological treatments applied. L-DOPA, but not bromocriptine, induced high striatal levels of FosB/DeltaFosB immunoreactivity and prodynorphin mRNA, and these did not differ between short-term and long-term L-DOPA-treated rats. The present data provide the first demonstration that L-DOPA maintains high striatal levels of fosB and prodynorphin gene expression during a prolonged course of treatment, which simulates the clinical practice in Parkinson's disease more closely than the short-treatment paradigms studied thus far.
The present study examined the role of the prefrontal cortex in retrieval processing using functional magnetic resonance imaging in human subjects. Ten healthy subjects were scanned while they performed a task that required retrieval of specific aspects of visual information. In order to examine brain activity specifically associated with retrieval, we designed a task that had retrieval and control conditions that were perfectly matched in terms of depth of encoding, decision making and postretrieval monitoring and differed only in terms of whether retrieval was required. In the retrieval condition, based on an instructional cue, the subjects had to retrieve either the particular stimulus that was previously presented or its location. In the control condition, the cue did not instruct retrieval but shared with the instructional cues the function of alerting the subjects of the impending test phase. The comparison of activity between the retrieval and control conditions demonstrated a significant and selective increase in activity related to retrieval processes within the ventrolateral prefrontal cortical region, more specifically within area 47/12. These activity increases were bilateral but stronger in the right hemisphere. The present study by strictly controlling the level of encoding, postretrieval monitoring, and decision making has demonstrated a specific increase in the ventrolateral prefrontal region that could be clearly related to active retrieval processing, i.e. the active selection of particular stored visual representations.
Exogenous glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) exhibits potent survival-promoting effects on dopaminergic neurons of the nigrostriatal pathway that is implicated in Parkinson's disease and also protects neurons in forebrain ischemia of animal models. However, a role for endogenous GDNF in brain function has not been established. Although mice homozygous for a targeted deletion of the GDNF gene have been generated, these mice die within hours of birth because of deficits in kidney morphogenesis, and, thus, the effect of the absence of GDNF on brain function could not be studied. Herein, we sought to determine whether adult mice, heterozygous for a GDNF mutation on two different genetic backgrounds, demonstrate alterations in the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system or in cognitive function. While both neurochemical and behavioural measures suggested that reduction of GDNF gene expression in the mutant mice does not alter the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system, it led to a significant and selective impairment of performance in the spatial version of the Morris water maze. A standard panel of blood chemistry tests and basic pathological analyses did not reveal alterations in the mutants that could account for the observed performance deficit. These results suggest that endogenous GDNF may not be critical for the development and functioning of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system but it plays an important role in cognitive abilities.
Tolerance to opiates reduces their effectiveness in the treatment of severe pain. Although the mechanisms are unclear, overactivity of pro-nociceptive systems has been proposed to contribute to this phenomenon. We have reported that the development of morphine tolerance significantly increased calcitonin-gene-related-peptide-like immunoreactivity (CGRP-IR) in primary sensory afferents of the spinal dorsal horn, suggesting that changes in pain-related neuropeptides in the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons may be involved (Menard et al., 1996, J. Neurosci., 16, 2342-2351). Recently, we have shown that repeated morphine treatments induced increases in CGRP- and substance P (SP)-IR in cultured DRG, mimicking the in vivo effects (Ma et al., 2000, Neuroscience, 99, 529-539). In this study, we investigated the intracellular signal transduction pathways possibly involved in morphine-induced increases in CGRP- and SP-IR in DRG neurons. Repeated morphine exposure (10-20 microm) for 6 days increased the number of neurons expressing phosphorylated (p) mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases, including the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (pERK), c-jun N-terminal kinase (pJNK) and P38 (pP38 MAPK). The number of neurons expressing phosphorylated cAMP responsive element binding protein (pCREB) was also markedly increased in morphine-exposed cultured DRG neurons. pERK-, pP38-, pJNK- and pCREB-IR were colocalized with CGRP-IR in cultured DRG neurons. Naloxone effectively blocked these actions of morphine, whereas a selective MEK1 inhibitor, PD98059, inhibited the morphine-induced increase in the phosphorylation of ERK and CREB, and the expression of CGRP and SP. Moreover, in morphine-tolerant rats, the number of pCREB-, CGRP- and SP-IR neurons in the lumbar DRG was also significantly increased. These in vitro and in vivo data suggest that the phosphorylation of MAP kinases and CREB plays a role in the morphine-induced increase in spinal CGRP and SP levels in primary sensory afferents, contributing to the development of tolerance to opioid-induced analgesia.

Conventional treatment paradigms for schizophrenia have typically focused on reducing positive symptomatology; however, it is increasingly apparent that negative and cognitive symptoms are also important treatment targets. Cognitive function, in particular, is known to affect multiple outcome domains, including performance of basic daily activities, and social and occupational functioning. While traditional antipsychotics have little, or even a detrimental, effect on neurocognitive impairment in patients with schizophrenia, available data suggest that cognitive function may be improved during treatment with atypical antipsychotics. Quetiapine is a novel atypical antipsychotic with proven efficacy in schizophrenia across all domains. Results of well-controlled, double-blind, randomised studies show quetiapine to significantly improve cognitive function compared with treatment with haloperidol. Quetiapine has also been shown to be effective and well tolerated in patients particularly vulnerable to the extrapyramidal side effects (EPS) associated with conventional antipsychotics, making it well suited for use as first-line therapy.
Learning theory emphasizes the importance of expectations in the control of instrumental action. This study investigated the variation of behavioral reactions toward different rewards as an expression of differential expectations of outcomes in primates. We employed several versions of two basic behavioral paradigms, the spatial delayed response task and the delayed reaction task. These tasks are commonly used in neurobiological studies of working memory, movement preparation, and event expectation involving the frontal cortex and basal ganglia. An initial visual instruction stimulus indicated to the animal which one of several food or liquid rewards would be delivered after each correct behavioral response, or whether or not a reward could be obtained. We measured the reaction times of the operantly conditioned arm movement necessary for obtaining the reward, and the durations of anticipatory licking prior to liquid reward delivery as a Pavlovian conditioned response. The results showed that both measures varied depending on the reward predicted by the initial instruction. Arm movements were performed with significantly shorter reaction times for foods or liquids that were more preferred by the animal than for less preferred ones. Still larger differences were observed between rewarded and unrewarded trials. An interesting effect was found in unrewarded trials, in which reaction times were significantly shorter when a highly preferred reward was delivered in the alternative rewarded trials of the same trial block as compared to a less preferred reward. Anticipatory licks preceding the reward were significantly longer when highly preferred rather than less preferred rewards, or no rewards, were predicted. These results demonstrate that behavioral reactions preceding rewards may vary depending on the predicted future reward and suggest that monkeys differentially expect particular outcomes in the presently investigated tasks.
This study addressed the anticonvulsant effect of carbamazepine (CBZ) in the guinea-pig kindling model to further test this model for the screening of anticonvulsant drugs. We analysed plasma concentrations of CBZ at various time intervals after intraperitoneal injection of either 10, 25 or 40 mg/kg CBZ. Behavioural toxicity was assessed at 0.5 h postinjection using quantitative locomotor tests, as well as scores on a sedation/muscle relaxation rating index. The anticonvulsant efficacy of CBZ was evaluated from measurements of afterdischarge threshold (ADT), afterdischarge duration (ADD), and behavioural seizure severity at three phases of kindling: non-kindled, kindling acquisition (early and late) and kindled (50+ ADs). ADD and seizure severity were also measured in response to both threshold and suprathreshold kindling stimulation. Plasma levels of CBZ were within, or higher, than the human therapeutic range at the time of behavioural testing and kindling. CBZ exerted slight effects in guinea-pigs on the sedation rating index but not the behavioural tests. CBZ increased ADT and reduced ADD and seizure severity throughout all phases of kindling, indicating that the guinea-pig model correctly predicts CBZ's anticonvulsant effect. CBZ in the guinea-pig kindling model produced consistent anticonvulsant activity that did not appear to be dependent on stimulation intensity.
This study addressed some of the controversial issues surrounding the anticonvulsant effect of phenytoin, and the predictive validity of the guinea-pig kindling model for the screening of anticonvulsant drugs. Following an intraperitoneal injection of either 50 or 75 mg/kg phenytoin, we analysed plasma concentrations of phenytoin at various time intervals. Behavioural toxicity was assessed at 0.5 h postinjection using quantitative locomotor tests, as well as scores on a sedation/muscle relaxation rating index. The anticonvulsant efficacy of phenytoin was evaluated from measurements of afterdischarge threshold (ADT), afterdischarge duration (ADD) and behavioural seizure severity at three phases of kindling: non-kindled, kindling acquisition (early and late) and kindled (50+ ADs). ADD and seizure severity were also measured in response to both threshold and suprathreshold kindling stimulation. Plasma levels of phenytoin corresponded to the human therapeutic range at the time of behavioural testing and kindling. Phenytoin did not exert significant adverse effects in guinea-pigs on both the behavioural tests and rating index. Phenytoin increased ADT in non-kindled and kindled guinea-pigs and effectively reduced ADD and seizure severity, indicating that the guinea-pig model correctly predicted phenytoin's anticonvulsant effect. Phenytoin produced reliable anticonvulsant activity in the guinea-pig at threshold stimulation but a somewhat reduced efficacy on seizure severity at suprathreshold stimulation intensities. Kindling in the guinea-pig is a valid model of human partial seizures.
Conditioned reflex facilitation occurs when the amplitude of the eyeblink (EB) unconditioned reflex (UR) is increased as a result of prior pavlovian conditioning. Prepulse modification of the EB reflex is produced by preceding the unconditioned stimulus (US) by a brief low-level neutral stimulus. This study examined both conditioned EB facilitation and prepulse modification in rabbits with either medial prefrontal (mPFC) lesions or sham lesions. Conditioned reflex facilitation was assessed by comparing EB UR amplitude prior to and after pavlovian EB conditioning. Animals that received CS/US paired presentations showed evidence of conditioned reflex facilitation, but animals with unpaired training did not. However, this increase in EB UR magnitude in the paired groups was smaller in animals with mPFC lesions, compared to those with sham lesions. In two subsequent experiments different groups of sham and lesion animals received an intense burst of white noise preceded by tones with different interstimulus interval durations to assess prepulse modification. Unlike conditioned facilitation, prepulse modification was unaffected by mPFC lesions.
The casein kinase I (CKI) family consists of at least seven vertebrate genes, some of which can be alternatively spliced. Previously, we have studied the four splice variants of the chicken CKIalpha gene. The four proteins differ only by the presence or absence of two peptides, a 28-amino-acid &quot;L&quot; insert in the catalytic domain and a 12-amino-acid &quot;S&quot; insert near the extreme C-terminus. Here cells were transfected with DNA encoding all four isoforms fused to the green fluorescent protein (GFP) and the localization of each protein was examined. We noted that the L insert includes the sequence PVGKRKR, which has the characteristics of a nuclear localization signal (NLS), and we show that the CKIalphaL and CKIalphaLS isoforms which contain this sequence are targeted to the nucleus, where a fraction becomes associated with nuclear speckles. In contrast the two isoforms lacking the L insert remain predominantly cytoplasmic. Mutation of the first lysine in the putative NLS to asparagine prevented the nuclear entry of GFP-CKIalphaL. Therefore different CKIalpha isoforms are targeted to different cellular compartments in a fashion modulated by alternate transcription and in these locations presumably phosphorylate and regulate different cellular substrates.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) results in abnormal locomotor and pain syndromes in humans. T13 spinal hemisection in the rat results in development of permanent mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia partially due to interruption of descending inhibitory modulators such as serotonin (5-HT). We hypothesize that lumbar transplantation of nonmitotic cells that tonically secrete antinociceptive and trophic compounds will reduce the pain-like behavior and enhance locomotor recovery after SCI. We used RN46A-B14 cells, a conditionally immortalized (SV40tsTag) rat neuronal cell line derived from E13 raphe bioengineered to secrete both 5-HT and BDNF in vitro at both permissive (33 degrees C) and nonpermissive (39 degrees C) temperatures. Three groups (n = 72) of 30-day-old male Sprague-Dawley rats were spinally hemisected at T13 and allowed 4 weeks for adequate recovery of locomotor function and development of allodynia and hyperalgesia. Immunosuppressed animals received either lumbar RN46A-B14 (n = 24) or control RN46A-V1 (n = 24) empty-vector transplants or no cell (n = 24) transplant. HPLC analysis of media and CSF demonstrated increases of both in vitro and in vivo 5-HT levels at 28 days in RN46A-B14 animals. ELISA demonstrated BDNF secretion in vitro and in vivo by RNA46A-B14 cells. Locomotor function (BBB scale) and nociceptive behaviors measured by paw withdrawals to von Frey filaments, radiant heat, and noxious pin stimuli were tested for 4 weeks posttransplant. Animals receiving RN46A-B14 cells demonstrated significantly improved locomotor function and reductions in both fore- and hindlimb mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia compared to controls receiving RN46A-V1 or no transplants. These effects were modulated by the 5-HT antagonist methysergide and reuptake inhibitor fluvoxamine. Bromodeoxyuridine and 5-HT immunoreactivity confirmed cell survival and graft location 4 weeks posttransplantation. These results support the therapeutic potential of bioengineered serotonin-secreting cell lines in reducing chronic central pain following spinal cord injury.
There is currently no effective treatment for Huntington's disease (HD), a progressive, fatal, neurodegenerative disorder characterized by motor and cognitive deterioration. It is well established that HD is associated with perturbation of mitochondrial energy metabolism. Tauroursodeoxycholic acid (TUDCA), a naturally occurring bile acid, can stabilize the mitochondrial membrane, inhibit the mitochondrial permeability transition, decrease free radical formation, and derail apoptotic pathways. Here we report that TUDCA significantly reduced 3-nitropropionic acid (3-NP)-mediated striatal neuronal cell death in cell culture. In addition, rats treated with TUDCA exhibited an 80% reduction in apoptosis and in lesion volumes associated with 3-NP administration. Moreover, rats which received a combination of TUDCA + 3-NP exhibited sensorimotor and cognitive task performance that was indistinguishable from that of controls, and this effect persisted at least 6 months. Bile acids have traditionally been used as therapeutic agents for certain liver diseases. This is the first demonstration, however, that a bile acid can be delivered to the brain and function as a neuroprotectant and thus may offer potential therapeutic benefit in the treatment of certain neurodegenerative diseases.
Although the primary stimulus regulating vasopressin (VP) release is a change in systemic osmolality, other physiological parameters are known to affect VP secretion or modulate the osmotic control over its release. Neuropeptides feature prominently in afferents underlying the central regulation of the VP-releasing magnocellular neurosecretory cells (MNCs). Although little is yet known of the circumstances under which peptides are released onto MNCs, previous studies have shown that a common response profile to exogenous peptide application is a slow excitation that seems to result from the activation of a nonselective cation conductance. In this paper we review the basis for the excitatory effects of angiotensin II, cholecystokinin, and neurotensin in MNCs acutely isolated from the supraoptic nucleus of adult rats. Saturating concentrations of these three peptides evoked nonadditive increases in macroscopic cation conductance. During single-channel recordings Ang II, CCK, and NT caused kinetically identical increases in the probability of opening of 35-pS nonselective cation channels. Patches containing only one channel further revealed that the activity of single channels could be regulated by separate applications of all three peptides. Peptide-stimulated channels were also found to be inactivated by increases in membrane stretch and to be blocked by low concentrations of gadolinium (Gd(3+)). It is concluded that many excitatory peptides depolarize MNCs by stimulating the stretch-inactivated cation channels underlying osmoreception. Convergent regulation of these channels provides a potentially powerful mechanism for integrating signals derived from the various afferents involved in the regulation of MNCs.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is the only neurodegenerative disorder in which pharmacological intervention has resulted in a marked decrease in morbidity and a significant delay in mortality. However, the medium to long-term efficacy of this pharmacotherapy, mainly consisting of dopaminomimetics like L -dopa and dopamine receptor agonists, suffers greatly from the unrelenting progression of the disease process underlying PD, i.e., the degeneration of neuromelanin-containing, dopaminergic neurones in the substantia nigra. Efforts concentrated on understanding the mechanisms of dopaminergic cell death in Parkinson's disease have led to identification of a large variety of pathogenetic factors, including excessive release of oxygen free radicals during enzymatic dopamine breakdown, impairment of mitochondrial function, production of inflammatory mediators, loss of trophic support, and apoptosis. Therapeutic approaches aimed at correcting these abnormalities are currently being evaluated on their efficacy as neuroprotectants for PD. Here, we focus on the process of dopamine auto-oxidation, the chain of reactions leading to the formation of neuromelanin, as an often overlooked, yet obvious pathogenetic factor. In particular, we discuss the option of drug-mediated stimulation of endogenous mechanisms responsible for the detoxification of dopamine auto-oxidation products as a novel means of neuroprotection in Parkinson's disease.
Cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs) are a group of enzymes predominately known for their role in cell cycle regulation in proliferating cell types. Increasing evidence, however, suggests that CDKs also promote death in neurones. These observations have lead to the notion that CDKs may serve as a therapeutic target for neuropathological conditions such as stroke. Accordingly, in this review, we will examine the evidence which indicates a role for CDKs in neuronal death and evaluate the potential of CDK inhibitors as a therapeutic target for stroke.

Studies in several mammalian species have demonstrated that auditory cortical neurons respond strongly to single frequency-modulated (FM) sweeps, and that most responses are selective for sweep direction and/or rate. In the present study, we used extracellular recordings to examine how neurons in the auditory cortices of anesthetized rats respond to continuous, periodic trains of FM sweeps (described previously by deCharms et al., Science 280 (1998) pp. 1439-1444, as moving auditory gratings). Consistent with previous observations in owl monkeys, we found that the majority of cortical neurons responded selectively to trains of either up-sweeps or down-sweeps; selectivity for down-sweeps was most common. Periodic responses were typically evoked only by sweep trains with repetition rates less than 12 sweeps per second. Directional differences in responses were dependent on repetition rate. Our results support the proposal that a combination of both spectral and temporal acoustic features determines the responses of auditory cortical neurons to sound, and add to the growing body of evidence indicating that the traditional view of the auditory cortex as a frequency analyzer is not sufficient to explain how the mammalian brain represents complex sounds.
Gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA(A)) receptor functional status was analysed in partial hepatectomised (PH), lead nitrate (LN) induced hyperplastic and N-nitrosodiethylamine (NDEA) treated neoplastic rat livers during peak DNA synthesis. The high-affinity [3H]GABA binding significantly decreased in PH and NDEA rats and the receptor affinity decreased in NDEA and increased in LN rats compared with control. In NDEA, displacement analysis of [3H]GABA with muscimol showed loss of low-affinity site and a shift of high-affinity site towards low-affinity. The affinity sites shifted towards high-affinity in LN rats. The number of low-affinity [3H]bicuculline receptors decreased significantly in NDEA and PH whereas it increased in LN rats. GABA(A) receptor agonist, muscimol, dose dependently inhibited epidermal growth factor (EGF) induced DNA synthesis and enhanced the transforming growth factor beta1 (TGFbeta1) mediated DNA synthesis suppression in primary hepatocyte cultures. Our results suggest that GABA(A) receptor act as an inhibitory signal for hepatic cell proliferation.
Starting a research post after ward-based work can be a leap of faith and, as rewarding as it ultimately is, the initial transition can be a difficult one. This article addresses some of the questions which someone considering research should ask.
Oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy (OPMD) is an adult-onset disorder characterized by progressive eyelid drooping, swallowing difficulties and proximal limb weakness. The autosomal dominant form of this disease is caused by short expansions of a (GCG)(6) repeat to (GCG)(8-13) in the PABPN1 gene, which results in the expansion of a polyalanine stretch from 10 to 12-17 alanines in the N-terminus of the protein. Mutated PABPN1 (mPABPN1) is able to induce nuclear protein aggregation and form filamentous nuclear inclusions, which are the pathological hallmarks of OPMD. PABPN1, when bound to poly(A) RNA, forms both linear filaments and discrete-sized, compact oligomeric particles in vitro. In the absence of poly(A) RNA, PABPN1 can form oligomers. Here we report that: (i) oligomerization of PABPN1 is mediated by two potential oligomerization domains (ODs); (ii) inactivating oligomerization of mPABPN1 by deletions of 6-8 amino acids in either of the ODs prevents nuclear protein aggregation; (iii) expression of mPABPN1 in COS-7 cells is associated with cell death; and (iv) preventing nuclear protein aggregation by inactivating oligomerization of mPABPN1 significantly reduces cell death. These findings suggest that oligomerization of PABPN1 plays a crucial role in the formation of OPMD nuclear protein aggregation, while the expanded polyalanine stretch is necessary but not sufficient to induce OPMD protein aggregation, and that the nuclear protein aggregation might be toxic and cause cell death. These observations also imply that inactivation of oligomerization of mPABPN1 might be a useful therapeutic strategy for OPMD.
A new method based on a multiresolution approach for solving the ill-posed problem of brain electrical activity reconstruction from electroencephaloram (EEG)/magnetoencephalogram (MEG) signals is proposed in a distributed source model. At each step of the algorithm, a regularized solution to the inverse problem is used to constrain the source space on the cortical surface to be scanned at higher spatial resolution. We present the iterative procedure together with an extension of the ST-maximum a posteriori method [1] that integrates spatial and temporal a priori information in an estimator of the brain electrical activity. Results from EEG in a phantom head experiment with a real human skull and from real MEG data on a healthy human subject are presented. The performances of the multiresolution method combined with a nonquadratic estimator are compared with commonly used dipolar methods, and to minimum-norm method with and without multiresolution. In all cases, the proposed approach proved to be more efficient both in terms of computational load and result quality, for the identification of sparse focal patterns of cortical current density, than the fixed scale imaging approach.
Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada disease is an autoimmune systemic disorder. In Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada disease, inflammatory disorders occur in multiple organs containing melanocytes, including uvea (resulting in acute bilateral panuveitis), skin (resulting in vitiligo and alopecia), central nervous system (resulting in meningitis) and inner ears (resulting in hearing loss and tinnitus). These inflammatory aspects are attributed to the destruction of melanocytes through immunological mechanisms. Studies have been carried out to elucidate the exact etiology and target autoantigen in Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada disease, but much remains to be investigated. Identification of target autoantigen is important to understand the etiology of autoimmune diseases, and for development of antigen-specific immuno-modulation therapy. To identify the target autoantigens in Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada disease, we made use of an immunoscreening of a bovine uveal cDNA expression library with serum samples obtained from patients with Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada disease. We identified an immunoreactive cDNA clone that encodes bovine lens epithelium derived growth factor. mRNA of human lens epithelium derived growth factor was determined by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and it was expressed in human uvea, retina and melanocytes. Immunoglobulin G (IgG) autoantibodies were quantitated in an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, using recombinant human lens epithelium derived growth factor. The prevalence of IgG anti-lens epithelium derived growth factor autoantibodies in patients with Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada disease was significantly higher than that in healthy controls (66.7% versus 21.6%, P&lt;0.001). On the other hand, the prevalence of the autoantibody in patients with panuveitis of other etiology, Behet's disease and sarcoidosis, was almost same as that in healthy controls. These results suggest that the humoral immune response agonist lens epithelium derived growth factor is not a mere secondary phenomena caused by uveal tissue damage.
Similarity of pathology and disease progression make the non-human primate (NHP) model of Lyme neuroborreliosis appropriate and valuable. In the NHP model of Lyme neuroborreliosis, spirochetal density in the nervous system and other tissues has been measured by polymerase chain reaction and correlated to anti-Borrelia burgdorferi antibody in the serum and cerebrospinal fluid and to inflammation in tissues. Despite the demonstrable presence of Borrelia burgdorferi, the causative agent of Lyme borreliosis, only minor inflammation of the central nervous system occurs, though inflammation can be demonstrated in other tissues. Infected animals also develop anti-Borrelia burgdorferi antibody in the serum, although increased amplitude of antibody is not predictive of higher levels of infection. The NHP model continues to provide important insight into the disease process in humans.
Mouse hepatocytes immortalized with a temperature-sensitive allele of the SV40 large T-antigen (CHST8 cells) were found to lack the high expression of the gap junction proteins Cx26 and Cx32 that characterizes normal mouse hepatocytes, expressing instead Cx43 and Cx45 at minimal levels. In order to examine the growth suppressive function of Cx32 on hepatocytes, we transfected these CHST8 cells with human Cx32 complementary deoxyribonucleic acid and measured the growth rates at 33, 37, and 39 degrees C. Expression of human Cx32 and its messenger ribonucleic acid in the stable cell lines was confirmed by immunocytochemistry and by Western and Northern blots analyses. Dye transfer following lucifer yellow injection into the transfectants was extensive; Cx32 channels displayed unitary conductances of about 70 pS and were moderately voltage sensitive. When cultured at 33 and 39 degrees C, growth rates of both parental cells and transfectants were of the same level. When examined at 37 degrees C, growth rate of the transfectant, which highly expressed Cx32 at the membranes, was significantly decreased compared to the parental cells. However, no changes in the expression of Cx32 protein in the transfectants were observed between 33 and 37 degrees C. These results suggest that Cx32 expression could inhibit hepatocyte growth in vitro using the conditional immortalized cells. Cx32 transfectants using a conditional immortalized mouse hepatocyte may be useful for examining the mechanisms of growth and differentiation in hepatocytes by gap junction expression.

There have been few scientifically rigorous prospective studies which have looked at the phenomenology of obsessions and compulsions in Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD), in the last decade. The current study aims to extend these findings and establisp their cross-cultural validity. Two hundred and two consecutive subjects with OCD were evaluated using the Yale Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale- Symptom Check List and Scale for Assessment of form and content. The data was subjected to Factor analysis with varimax rotation. The results suggest that there are factors which are broadly common to the two scales. The main Factors which emerged were Washers, Checkers, Hoarding and two pure Obsessional Factors. The cross-cultural validity of these factors has been established for an Indian population, and the relevance of specific items between scales has been discussed. The importance of such approaches in understanding etiology, prognosis and treatment of OCD is highlighted.


This paper attempts to provide an overview of the current status and some possible future directions of 'Integrative Psychophysiology'. Exemplar integrations are offered for: (i) the theory of some of the more cited models of the brain as a system; (ii) a numerical simulation of brain dynamics (highlighting the plausibility of exploring mechanisms at the whole brain scale); and (iii) an empirical profile of disturbances in patients with schizophrenia (reflecting a prototypical disorder of overall brain instability and suboptimal integrative information processing). These 'integrative' dimensions provide a frame of reference for considering interrelationships among brain dynamics and behaviour, in health and disease.
Quantitative and qualitative aspects of the social network were investigated in a sample of 120 schizophrenic out-patients. Sociodemographic and clinical factors as well as subjective quality of life were investigated as to their relationship to the social network. The Interview Schedule for Social Integration (ISSI) was used to assess social network and Lancashire Quality of Life Profile was used to assess subjective quality of life. Psychopathology was measured by BPRS and psychosocial functioning by GAF. The patients reported a significantly worse social network compared to a normal sample both regarding quantitative and qualitative aspects of the network. Almost half of the patients wanted access to more social contacts. Relatives and friends turned out to be the patient's main source of supportive contacts. More severe negative and positive symptoms were related to a worse social network. Support was found for an association between characteristics of the social network, such as satisfaction with social contacts, and quality of life. The results give reason to suggest that the care system should consider the informal caregivers' situation and focus on interventions, which enhance the patient's satisfaction with social contacts.


The human NACP/alpha-synuclein gene has been cloned. This gene consists of 6 exons ranging in size from 42 to 1110 bp. The translation start codon ATG is encoded by exon 2 and the stop codon TAA is encoded by exon 6. The non-Abeta component of Alzheimer's disease amyloid (NAC) is encoded by exon 4. The two previously reported minor isoforms of NACP/alpha-synuclein, NACP112 [29] and NACP126 [6], are alternatively spliced products, in which exon 5 and exon 3 are spliced out, respectively. Exon 1 was found to have different splicing sites, producing different 5'-untranslated sequences in the cDNAs. A previously reported dinucleotide repeat polymorphic marker has been mapped to 8kb upstream of the transcription start site. A highly TC-rich sequence in intron 4 was found to be polymorphic by length and four alleles, A0, A1, A2 and B have been identified in the Caucasian population. Genotyping this polymorphism among pure Alzheimer's, Lewy body variant and Parkinson's subjects and aged normal control subjects did not reveal any significant differences.
Excess iron accumulation in the brain is a consistent observation in Alzheimer's Disease. Iron affects amyloid precursor protein (AbetaPP) processing and promotes deposition of Abeta. Iron is also among the most potent biological toxins because of its ability to react with oxygen to form reactive oxygen species. Consequently, elucidation of the mechanisms associated with maintaining brain iron homeostasis is fundamentally important to understanding the underlying pathogenesis in AD. The iron overload disorder, Hemochromatosis, is the most common genetic disorder (1:200) so a significant percentage of AD patients can be expected to carry this mutation. Heterozygotes for this mutation also have an increased, but sub-clinical iron burden. Given the high percentage of the population who are at significant risk for iron overload, we propose that the hemochromatosis mutation be considered as a confounding factor when evaluating the contribution of genetic associations with AD and treatment strategies and efficacy. Two recent papers and new evidence presented here that the protein associated with hemochromatosis is expressed on blood vessels, choroid plexus and the ependymal cells in the brain are offered as support for this proposal.
The protein clusterin has been suggested to be involved in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Its expression is increased in brain regions affected by AD pathology, and to elucidate if there is a concomitant increase of clusterin also in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in different neurological disorders, CSF samples from patients with AD, vascular dementia (VAD), Parkinson's disease (PD), and controls were analysed. Also longitudinal (five occasions) samples from patients with acute stroke were analysed, to follow any degenerative/regenerative phase after acute brain damage. However, there were no changes in CSF-clusterin levels from patients in AD, VAD, PD or acute stroke, as compared to controls. The increase of clusterin in brain tissue is suggested to reflect a regenerative response process, which here is shown not to be followed by a concomitant increase in the CSF. Thus, CSF-clusterin can not be used as an indicator or a diagnostic marker for AD.

In the developing vertebrate retina, ganglion cells fire spontaneous bursts of action potentials long before the eye becomes exposed to sensory experience at birth. These early bursts are synchronised between neighbouring retinal ganglion cells (RGCs), yielding unique spatiotemporal patterns: 'waves' of activity sweep across large retinal areas every few minutes. Both at retinal and extraretinal levels, these embryonic retinal waves are believed to guide the wiring of the visual system using hebbian mechanisms of synaptic strengthening. In the first part of this review, we recapitulate the evidence for a role of these embryonic spontaneous bursts of activity in shaping developing complex receptive field properties of RGCs in the turtle embryonic retina. We also discuss the role of visual experience in establishing RGC visual functions, and how spontaneous activity and visual experience interact to bring developing receptive fields to maturation. We have hypothesised that the physiological changes associated with development reflect modifications in the dendritic arbours of RGCs, the anatomical substrate of their receptive fields. We demonstrate that there is a temporal correlation between the period of receptive field expansion and that of dendritic growth. Moreover, the immature spontaneous activity contributes to dendritic growth in developing RGCs. Intracellular staining of RGCs reveals, however, that immature receptive fields only rarely show direct correlation with the layout of the corresponding dendritic tree. To investigate the possibility that not only the presence of the spontaneous activity, but even the precise spatiotemporal patterns encoded in retinal waves might contribute to the refinement of retinal neural circuitry, first we must clarify the mechanisms mediating the generation and propagation of these waves across development. In the second part of this review, we present evidence that turtle retinal waves, visualised using calcium imaging, exhibit profound changes in their spatiotemporal patterns during development. From fast waves sweeping across large retinal areas and recruiting many cells on their trajectory at early stages, waves become slower and eventually stop propagating towards hatching, when they become stationary patches of neighbouring coactive RGCs. A developmental switch from excitatory to inhibitory GABAA responses appears to mediate the modification in spontaneous activity patterns while the retina develops. Future chronic studies using specific spatiotemporal alterations of the waves will shed a new light on how the wave dynamics help in sculpting retinal receptive fields.
A fluorescence-based assay using the FLIPR Membrane Potential Assay Kit (FMP) was evaluated for functional characterization and high throughput screening (HTS) of potassium channel (ATP-sensitive K+ channel; K(ATP)) modulators. The FMP dye permits a more sensitive evaluation of changes in membrane potential with a more rapid response time relative to DiBAC4(3). The time course of responses is comparable to ligand-evoked activation of the channel measured by patch-clamp studies. The pharmacological profile of the K+ channel evaluated by using reference K(ATP) channel openers is in good agreement with that derived previously by DiBAC4(3)-based FLIPR assays. Improved sensitivity of responses together with the diminished susceptibility to artifacts such as those evoked by fluorescent compounds or quenching agents makes the FMP dye an alternative choice for HTS screening of potassium channel modulators.

Brain cells manufacture and secrete angiogenic peptides after focal cerebral ischemia, but the purpose of this angiogenic response is unknown. Because the maximum possible regional cerebral blood flow is determined by the quantity of microvessels in each unit volume, it is possible that angiogenic peptides are secreted to generate new collateral channels; other possibilities include neuroprotection, recovery/regeneration, and removal of necrotic debris. If the brain attempts to create new collaterals, microvessel density should increase significantly after ischemia. Conversely, if angiogenic-signaling molecules serve some other purpose, microvessel densities may increase slightly or not at all. To clarify, the authors measured microvessel densities with quantitative morphometry. Left middle cerebral arteries of adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were occluded with intraluminal nylon suture for 4 hours followed by 7, 14, 19, or 30 days of reperfusion. Controls received no surgery or suture occlusion. Changes in microvessel density and macrophage numbers were measured by light microscopic morphometry using semiautomated stereologic methods. Microvessel density increased only in the ischemic margin adjacent to areas of pannecrosis and was always associated with increased numbers of macrophages. Ischemic brain areas without macrophages displayed no vascularity changes compared with normal animals. These data suggest that ischemia-induced microvessels are formed to facilitate macrophage infiltration and removal of necrotic brain.

Despite abundant evidence of behavioral and electrophysiological dysfunction of the rodent hippocampal formation with aging, the structural basis of age-related cognitive decline remains unclear. Recently, unbiased stereological studies of the mammalian hippocampus have found little evidence to support the dogma that cellular loss accompanies hippocampal aging, thereby supporting an alternative hypothesis that aging is marked by widespread conservation of neuronal number. However, to date, the effects of aging have not been reported in another key component of memory systems in the rodent brain, the entorhinal cortex. In the present study, we stereologically estimated total neuronal number and size (cross-sectional area and cell volume) in the subdivisions and cellular layers of the rat entorhinal cortex, using the optical fractionator and nucleator, respectively. Comparisons were made among Fischer 344 rats that were young, aged-impaired, and aged-unimpaired (based on functional analysis in the Morris water maze). No significant differences in cell number or size were observed in any of the entorhinal subdivisions or laminae examined in each group. Thus, aging is associated with widespread conservation of neuronal number, despite varying degrees of cognitive decline, in all memory-related systems examined to date. These data suggest that mechanisms of age-related cognitive decline are to be found in parameters other than neuronal number or size in the cortex of the mammalian brain.
Adrenergic and noradrenergic neural projections to the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN) contribute importantly to viscerosensory modulation of pituitary hormone secretion. Immaturity of ascending catecholamine pathways may partially underlie the documented hyporesponsiveness of PVN neurosecretory cells to certain interoceptive stimuli in rats during the first few weeks of postnatal development. To explore this possibility, the present study compared the distribution and number of dopamine-beta-hydroxylase (DBH)- and phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase (PNMT)-positive neurons projecting to the PVN in newborn and adult rats. In addition, a quantitative analysis of DBH- and PNMT-immunoreactive fibers in the medial parvocellular subnucleus, dorsal division (PVNmpd) and posterior magnocellular subnucleus, lateral division (PVNpml) was performed in adult rats and in developing rats on postnatal day (P)1, P7, P14, and P21. The numbers of PVN-projecting neurons in the A1, C1, A2/C2, C3, or A6 catecholamine cell groups were similar in newborn and adult rats, as were the proportions of PVN-projecting neurons in each region that were PNMT-positive. However, fewer PVN-projecting neurons in the C1 and C3 regions expressed DBH immunolabeling in newborn rats compared to adults. DBH immunolabeling increased progressively in the PVNmpd and PVNpml between postnatal days P1 and P21, when adult-like levels were achieved. Conversely, PNMT immunolabeling in the same PVN subdivisions was most dense at P1, gradually decreasing to adult-like levels by P21. These dynamic developmental changes in catecholamine synthetic enzyme immunolabeling densities in the PVN may reflect functional changes in noradrenergic and adrenergic signaling capacity in rats during the first few weeks of postnatal development.
We have investigated the projection patterns of peptidergic small-diameter primary afferent fibers to the cat sacrocaudal spinal cord, a region associated with midline structures of the lower urogenital system and of the tail. Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP)-immunoreactive (CGRP-IR) primary afferent fibers were observed within the superficial laminae, rostrally as the typical inverted U-shaped band that capped the separate dorsal horns (S1 to rostral S2) and caudally as a broad band that spanned the entire mediolateral extent of the fused dorsal horns (caudal S2 and caudal). Within the dorsal gray commissure, labeling was seen as a periodic vertical, midline band. CGRP-IR labeling was prevalent in an extensive mediolateral distribution at the base of the dorsal horn, originating from both lateral and medial collateral bundles that extend from the superficial dorsal horn. Some bundles, in part traveling within the dorsal commissure, conspicuously crossed the midline. In addition to the robust projection to the superficial dorsal horn, there was a more extensive distribution of CGRP-IR fibers within the deeper portions of the cat sacrocaudal dorsal horn than has been reported for other regions of the cat spinal cord. Presumably, these deep projections convey visceral information to projection or segmental neurons at the neck of the dorsal horn and in the region of the central canal. This deep distribution overlaps the reported projections of the pelvic and pudendal nerves. In addition, the contralateral projections of CGRP-IR fibers may form an anatomical substrate of the bilateral receptive fields for selective dorsal horn neurons. The density and variety of CGRP-IR projection patterns is a reflection of the functional attributes of the innervated structures.
Two baboons (Papio papio) successfully learned relational matching-to-sample: They picked the choice display that involved the same relation among 16 pictures (same or different) as the sample display, although the sample display shared no pictures with the choice displays. The baboons generalized relational matching behavior to sample displays created from novel pictures. Further experiments varying the number of sample pictures and the mixture of same and different sample pictures suggested that entropy plays a key role in the baboons' conceptual behavior. Two humans (Homo sapiens) were similarly trained and tested; their behavior was both similar to and different from the baboons' behavior. The results suggest that animals other than humans and chimpanzees can discriminate the relation between relations. They further suggest that entropy detection may underlie same-different conceptualization, but that additional processes may participate in human conceptualization.
An inter-rater reliability test of the Stepwise Comparative Status Analysis (STEP) is presented. The STEP is a protocol for the clinical examination of patients with dementia, within the scope of a neuropsychiatric investigation. It combines psychiatric and neurologic bedside examination methods. The analysis is made in three steps where primary, observable symptom variables are successively aggregated via compound variables to the final determination of one of seven possible dominant regional brain syndromes (global, frontal, subcortical, parietal, frontosubcortical, frontoparietal, other), here also called complex variables. In the present study, two senior physicians assessed 50 patients independently and simultaneously. None of the patients was known to both physicians. In 42 patients (84%), the same dominant brain syndrome was determined by the two clinicians. The probability (P value) of this (or better) agreement was calculated at 2.0 x 10(-12). Kappa coefficients were calculated as a measure of assessment agreement regarding the 50 STEP variables. For 20 variables, the coefficient was 0.75 or above, indicating excellent agreement; for 22 variables, the coefficient was below 0.75 and above 0.40, indicating moderate agreement; and for 4 variables, the value was 0.40 or below, indicating poor agreement. Kappa calculations regarding the assessments of four variables were either not possible or were considered inappropriate.
In the present report, 101 ambulatory elderly patients complaining about cognitive disturbances were investigated using the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE). Laboratory investigations, brain imaging, and electroencephalography were performed. Twelve patients were diagnosed with subjective memory complaints (SMC), 32 with mild cognitive impairment (MCI), 43 with dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT), and 14 with vascular dementia (VAD). Thirty-three percent of the SMC group, 31% of the MCI group, 45% of the DAT group, and 62% of the VAD group had increased serum homocysteine (s-HCY). Principal component analysis of 19 variables showed 3 significant principal components by cross-validation. The cognitive impairment in the patients (MMSE) was explained to 50%. According to the principal component analysis, the population followed two different routes to cognitive impairment: one correlated with disturbance of one-carbon metabolism (cerebrospinal fluid vitamin B12, plasma B12, plasma folate, and s-HCY) and the other correlated with more classic dementia, as marked by cerebrospinal fluid tau, vascular risk factors, atrophy on brain imaging, possession of the apolipoprotein E4 allele, and age. There was poor discrimination between DAT and VAD.
BAP31 is a transmembrane protein that associates with nascent membrane proteins in transit between endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and cis-Golgi. Its C-terminal dilysine (KKEE) motif, mediating return to the ER, is consistent with a role in early sorting of membrane proteins. An initiator caspase-binding site in the C-terminal domain of BAP31 is implicated in cytoplasmic membrane fragmentation events of apoptosis. Although BAP31 RNA is ubiquitous, the protein's anatomic localization has not been determined. To gain further insight into its possible functions, we localized BAP31 in primate tissues using monoclonal antibodies. Immunoreactivity was prominent in T- and B-lymphocytes in blood and in thymus, in cerebellar Purkinje neuron bodies and dendrites, in gonadotrophs of the anterior pituitary, ovarian thecal and follicular cells, active but not quiescent thyroid epithelium, adrenal cortex more than medulla, and proximal more than distal renal tubules. Blood vessels and skeletal muscle were nonreactive. The anatomic distribution of BAP31 and the nature of proteins identified thus far as its cargo exiting the ER, suggest an interaction with proteins assembling in macromolecular complexes en route to selected sites of exocytotic and signaling activities. Apoptotic associations in mature tissues could be physiological (lymphocytes, endocrine cells) or pathological (Purkinje neurons, renal tubules).
Calcium is one of the most important intracellular messengers in the brain, being essential for neuronal development, synaptic transmission and plasticity, and the regulation of various metabolic pathways. The findings reviewed in the present article suggest that calcium also plays a prominent role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Associations between the pathological hallmarks ofAD (neurofibrillary tangles [NFT] and amyloid plaques) and perturbed cellular calcium homeostasis have been established in studies of patients, and in animal and cell culture models of AD. Studies of the effects of mutations in the beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) and presenilins on neuronal plasticity and survival have provided insight into the molecular cascades that result in synaptic dysfunction and neuronal degeneration in AD. Central to the neurodegenerative process is the inability of neurons to properly regulate intracellular calcium levels. Increased levels of amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) induce oxidative stress, which impairs cellular ion homeostasis and energy metabolism and renders neurons vulnerable to apoptosis and excitotoxicity. Subtoxic levels of Abeta may induce synaptic dysfunction by impairing multiple signal transduction pathways. Presenilin mutations perturb calcium homeostasis in the endoplasmic reticulum in a way that sensitizes neurons to apoptosis and excitotoxicity; links between aberrant calcium regulation and altered APP processing are emerging. Environmental risk factors for AD are being identified and may include high calorie diets, folic acid insufficiency, and a low level of intellectual activity (bad habits); in each case, the environmental factor impacts on neuronal calcium homeostasis. Low calorie diets and intellectual activity may guard against AD by stimulating production of neurotrophic factors and chaperone proteins. The emerging picture of the cell and molecular biology of AD is revealing novel preventative and therapeutic strategies for eradicating this growing epidemic of the elderly.
Disease-modifying approaches are being developed to treat Alzheimer's Disease (AD). These are expected to slow the clinical progression of AD or delay the onset of AD. Biological markers, measured in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) or in the periphery, may be useful adjuncts to clinical assessment methods for AD, especilly when applied to these types of treatment approaches. Markers related to beta-amyloid and tau, components of AD lesions, can be quantified in CSF and show a stable and predictable pattern over time in AD. Biomarkers related to oxidation, such as isoprostanes, and to inflammation may provide information regarding mechanisms leading to neuronal damage. Biomarkers could be used during early clinical testing of drugs that affect key pathogenic steps inAD, such as amyloid production or clearance, to assess drug action and dose-responserelationships. In large-scale clinical trials or in clinical practice, biomarkers that are easy to access, such as blood or urine tests, could help in evaluating effects of treatment.
3-Morpholinosyndnomine (SIN-1) has been reported to be a peroxynitrite (OONO(-)) donor because it produces both nitric oxide (NO) and superoxide (O(2)(-).) upon decomposition in aqueous solution. However, SIN-1 can decompose to primarily NO in the presence of electron acceptors, including those found in biological tissues, making it necessary to determine the release product(s) formed in any given biological system. In a mixed cortical cell culture system, SIN-1 caused a concentration-dependent increase in cortical cell injury with a parallel increase in the release of cellular proteins containing 3-nitrotyrosine into the culture medium. The increase in 3-nitrotyrosine immunoreactivity, a footprint of OONO(-) production, was specific for SIN-1 as exposure to neurotoxic concentrations of an NO donor (Z)-1-[2-aminoethyl)-N-(2-ammonioethyl) aminodiazen-1-ium-1,2-diolate (DETA/NO), or NMDA did not result in the nitration of protein tyrosine residues. Both SIN-1-induced injury and 3-nitrotyrosine staining were prevented by the addition of either 5,10,15,20-Tetrakis (4-sulfonatophenyl) prophyrinato iron (III) [FeTPPS], an OONO(-) decomposition catalyst, or uric acid, an OONO(-) scavenger. Removal of NO alone was sufficient to inhibit the formation of OONO(-) from SIN-1 as well as its cytotoxicity. Removal of O(2)(-). and the subsequently formed H(2)O(2) by superoxide dismutase (SOD) plus catalase likewise prevented the nitration of protein-bound tyrosine but actually enhanced the cytotoxicity of SIN-1, indicating that cortical cells can cope with the oxidative but not the nitrosative stress generated. Finally, neural injury induced by SIN-1 in unadulterated cortical cells was prevented by antagonism of AMPA/kainate receptors, while blockade of the NMDA receptor was without effect. In contrast, activation of both NMDA and non-NMDA receptors contributed to the SIN-1-mediated neurotoxicity when cultures were exposed in the presence of SOD plus catalase. Thus, whether SIN-1 initiates neural cell death in an OONO(-)-dependent or -independent manner is determined by the antioxidant status of the cells. Further, the mode of excitotoxicity by which injury progresses is determined by the NO-related species generated.
Both tyrosine phosphorylation and calpain-mediated truncation of ionotropic glutamate receptors are important mechanisms for synaptic plasticity. Previous work from our laboratory has shown that calpain activation results in truncation of the C-terminal domains of several glutamate receptor subunits. To test whether and how tyrosine phosphorylation of glutamate ionotropic receptor subunits modulates calpain susceptibility, synaptic membranes were phosphorylated by Fyn or Src, two members of the Src family tyrosine kinases. Tyrosine phosphorylation of synaptic membranes by Src significantly reduced calpain-mediated truncation of both NR2A and NR2B subunits of NMDA receptors, but not of GluR1 subunits of AMPA receptors. In contrast, phosphorylation with Fyn significantly protected calpain-mediated truncation of GluR1 subunits of AMPA receptors, but enhanced calpain-mediated truncation of NR2A subunits of NMDA receptors. Similar results were observed with NR2A and NR2B C-terminal domain fusion proteins phosphorylated by Fyn or Src before incubation with calpain and calcium. In addition, phosphorylation of NR2A and NR2B C-terminal fusion proteins by Fyn or Src enhanced their binding to spectrin and PSD-95. Thus, tyrosine phosphorylation impairs or facilitates calpain-mediated truncation of glutamate receptor subunits, depending on which tyrosine kinase is activated. Such mechanisms could serve to regulate receptor integrity and location, in addition to modulating channel properties.
Mild metabolic stress may increase resistance of neurons in the brain to subsequent, more severe insults, as demonstrated by the ability of ischemic pre-conditioning and dietary restriction to protect neurons in experimental models of stroke- and age-related neurodegenerative disorders. In the present study we employed iodoacetic acid (IAA), an inhibitor of glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, to test the hypothesis that inhibition of glycolysis can protect neurons. Pre-treatment of cultured hippocampal neurons with IAA can protect them against cell death induced by glutamate, iron and trophic factor withdrawal. Surprisingly, protection occurred with concentrations of IAA (2-200 nM) much lower than those required to inhibit glycolysis. Pre-treatment with IAA results in suppression of oxyradical production and stabilization of mitochondrial function in neurons after exposure to oxidative insults. Levels of the stress heat-shock proteins HSP70 and HSP90, and of the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2, were increased in neurons exposed to IAA. Our data demonstrate that IAA can stimulate cytoprotective mechanisms within neurons, and suggest the possible use of IAA and related compounds in the prevention and/or treatment of neurodegenerative conditions.
Depolarizing stimuli increase catecholamine (CA) biosynthesis, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) activity, and TH phosphorylation at Ser19, Ser31, and Ser40 in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner. However, the identities of the protein kinases that phosphorylate TH under depolarizing conditions are not known. Furthermore, although increases in Ser31 or Ser40 phosphorylation increase TH activity in vitro, the relative influence of phosphorylation at these sites on CA biosynthesis under depolarizing conditions is not known. We investigated the participation of extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (ERK) and cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) in elevated K(+)-stimulated TH phosphorylation in PC12 cells using an ERK pathway inhibitor, PD98059, and PKA-deficient PC12 cells (A126-B1). In the same paradigm, we measured CA biosynthesis. TH phosphorylation stoichiometry (PS) was determined by quantitative blot-immunolabeling using site- and phosphorylation state-specific antibodies. Treatment with elevated K(+) (+ 58 mM) for 5 min increased TH PS at each site in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner. Pretreatment with PD98059 prevented elevated K(+)-stimulated increases in ERK phosphorylation and Ser31 PS. In A126-B1 cells, Ser40 PS was not significantly increased by forskolin, and elevated K(+)-stimulated Ser40 PS was three- to five-fold less than that in PC12 cells. In both cell lines, CA biosynthesis was increased 1.5-fold after treatment with elevated K(+) and was prevented by pretreatment with PD98059. These results suggest that ERK phosphorylates TH at Ser31 and that PKA phosphorylates TH at Ser40 under depolarizing conditions. They also suggest that the increases in CA biosynthesis under depolarizing conditions are associated with the ERK-mediated increases in Ser31 PS.
Electrical stimulation of the cerebellar fastigial nucleus (FN) elicits a prolonged ( approximately 10 days) and substantial (50-80%) protection against ischemic and excitotoxic injuries. The mechanism(s) of protection are unknown. We investigated whether FN stimulation directly protects brain cells against apoptotic cell death in an in vitro rat brain slice culture model. Rats were electrically stimulated in FN or, as control, the cerebellar dentate nucleus (DN). Coronal slices through the forebrain were explanted, exposed to staurosporine, harvested, and analyzed for caspase-3 activity by a fluorescence assay. FN, but not DN, stimulation significantly reduced staurosporine-induced caspase-3 activity by 39 +/- 7% at 3 h, 31 +/- 3% at 6 h and 26 +/- 4% at 10 h of incubation. Immunocytochemistry revealed FN-specific reductions in activated caspase-3 mainly in glial-like cells throughout the forebrain. FN stimulation also results in a 56.5% reduction in cytochrome c release upon staurosporine incubation. We conclude that neuroprotection elicited from FN stimulation can directly modify the sensitivity of brain cells to apoptotic stimuli and thereby suppress staurosporine induced apoptosis in adult rat brain slices. This model indicates that neuroprotection can be studied in vitro and provides new insight into the potential role of glial cells in ischemic protection of neurons induced by FN stimulation.
In the present work, we investigated the role of pre- and post-synaptic neuropeptide Y1 (NPY1) and Y2 receptors on the calcium responses and on glutamate release in the rat hippocampus. In cultured hippocampal neurones, we observed that only NPY1 receptors are involved in the modulation of intracellular free calcium concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)). In 88% of the neurones analysed, the increase in the [Ca(2+)](i), in response to depolarization with 50 mM KCl, was inhibited by 1 microM [Leu31,Pro34]NPY, whereas 300 nM NPY13-36 was without effect. However, studies with hippocampal synaptosomes showed that both NPY1 and Y2 receptors can modulate the [Ca(2+)](i) and glutamate release. The pharmacological characterization of the NPY-induced inhibition of glutamate release indicated that Y2 receptors play a predominant role, both in the modulation of Ca(2+)-dependent and -independent glutamate release. However, we could distinguish between Y1 and Y2 receptors by using [Leu31,Pro34]NPY and NPY13-36. Active pre-synaptic Y1 receptors are present in the dentate gyrus (DG) as well as in the CA3 subregion, but its activity was not revealed by using the endogenous agonist, NPY. Concerning the Y2 receptors, they are present in the three subregions (CA1, CA3 and DG) and were activated by either NPY13-36 or NPY. The present data support a predominant role for NPY2 receptors in mediating NPY-induced inhibition of glutamate release in the hippocampus, but the physiological relevance of the presently described DG and CA3 pre-synaptic NPY1 receptors remains to be clarified.
Monitoring the release and uptake of catecholamines from terminals in weakly innervated brain regions is an important step in understanding their importance in normal brain function. To that end, we have labeled brain slices from transgenic mice that synthesize placental alkaline phosphatase (PLAP) on neurons containing tyrosine hydroxylase with antibody-fluorochrome conjugate, PLAP-Cy5. Excitation of the fluorochrome enables catecholamine neurons to be visualized in living tissue. Immunohistochemical fluorescence with antibodies to tyrosine hydroxylase and dopamine beta-hydroxylase revealed that the PLAP labeling was specific to catecholamine neurons. In the prefrontal cortex (PFC), immunohistochemical fluorescence of the PLAP along with staining for dopamine transporter (DAT) and norepinephrine transporter (NET) revealed that all three exhibit remarkable spatial overlap. Fluorescence from the PLAP antibody was used to position carbon-fiber microelectrodes adjacent to catecholamine neurons in the PFC. Following incubation with L-DOPA, catecholamine release and subsequent uptake was measured and the effect of uptake inhibitors examined. Release and uptake in NET and DAT knockout mice were also monitored. Uptake rates in the cingulate and prelimbic cortex are so slow that catecholamines can exist in the extracellular fluid for sufficient time to travel approximately 100 microm. The results support heterologous uptake of catecholamines and volume transmission in the PFC of mice.
We have mutated several amino acids in the region of the GABA(A) receptor alpha1 subunit predicted to form a small extracellular loop between transmembrane domains two and three to investigate its possible role in ligand sensitivity. The mutations were S275T, L276A, P277A, V279A, A280S and Y281F. Mutant alpha1 subunits were co-expressed with beta2 and gamma2 subunits in tsA201 cells or Xenopus oocytes. Binding studies revealed that the only mutation that significantly affected [3H]Ro15-4513 binding was the V279A substitution which reduced the affinity for this ligand. Electrophysiological examination of mutant receptors revealed that L276A, P277A and V279A displayed rightward shifts of their GABA concentration-response curves, the largest occurring with the L276A mutant. The impact of these mutations on allosteric modulation by benzodiazepine-site ligands was examined. V279A reduced the potency of both flunitrazepam and Ro15-4513 but, in each case, their efficacy was enhanced. A280S resulted in a decrease in flunitrazepam efficacy without affecting its potency. Additionally, P277A and A280S resulted in Ro15-4513 losing its inverse agonist effect at these receptors. These results suggest that a domain within this small extracellular loop between TMII-TMIII plays a role in determining the sensitivity of GABA(A) receptors to both GABA and benzodiazepine-site ligands.
Modulation of neurotrophic factors to protect neurons from damage is proposed as a novel mechanism for the action of antidepressants. However, the effect of antidepressants on modulation of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), which has potent and widespread effects, remains unknown. Here, we demonstrated that long-term use of antidepressant treatment significantly increased GDNF mRNA expression and GDNF release in time- and concentration-dependent manners in rat C6 glioblastoma cells. Amitriptyline treatment also increased GDNF mRNA expression in rat astrocytes. GDNF release continued for 24 h following withdrawal of amitriptyline. Furthermore, following treatment with antidepressants belonging to several different classes (amitriptyline, clomipramine, mianserin, fluoxetine and paroxetine) significantly increased GDNF release, but which did not occur after treatment with non-antidepressant psychotropic drugs (haloperidol, diazepam and diphenhydramine). Amitriptyline-induced GDNF release was inhibited by U0126 (10 microM), a mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)-extracellular signal-related kinase (ERK) kinase (MEK) inhibitor, but was not inhibited by H-89 (1 microM), a protein kinase A inhibitor, calphostin C (100 nM), a protein kinase C inhibitor and PD 169316 (10 microM), a p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase inhibitor. These results suggested that amitriptyline-induced GDNF synthesis and release occurred at the transcriptional level, and may be regulated by MEK/MAPK signalling. The enhanced and prolonged induction of GDNF by antidepressants could promote neuronal survival, and protect neurons from the damaging effects of stress. This may contribute to explain therapeutic action of antidepressants and suggest new strategies of pharmacological intervention.
Since its discovery, leptin (a 167-amino acid product of the OB gene) has quickly moved to the forefront as an important hormone for regulation of energy balance. It closes a feedback loop from adipose tissue to hypothalamic neuropeptide-containing neural circuitry involved in regulation of food intake and neuroendocrine/autonomic outflow. While increased central leptin signalling reduces adiposity via a reduction in food intake, it also has remarkable metabolic effects that promote leanness, independent of food intake. These include: (i) increased energy expenditure, (ii) in-place degradation of fat, and (iii) increased thermogenesis. Hypothalamic neurones that synthesize corticotropin releasing hormone and melanocortins (i.e. alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone and agouti-related protein) are likely effector pathways that mediate the anorexigenic and metabolic effects of leptin. Activation of sympathetic outflow (via neuropeptidergic effector pathways of central leptin) to a number of tissues that store fat might be an important mechanism through which these peripheral metabolic effects are elicited. It is proposed that these peripheral metabolic effects contribute to the satiating properties of leptin.


In an immunohistochemical study of Marinesco bodies--a neuronal intranuclear inclusion often seen in neurons of the substantia nigra of patients with hepatic encephalopathy--it was shown that one of the polyglutamine proteins, ataxin-3, is preferentially recruited into this inclusion, whereas other polyglutamine proteins (ataxin-2 and TATA box-binding protein) are not. This suggests that recruitment of each of the polyglutamine proteins may be differently regulated. Because this nuclear inclusion is thought to be formed in response to cellular stress, as occurs in hepatic encephalopathy, even in the absence of an expanded CAG/polyglutamine repeat, recruitment of ataxin-3 and ubiquitin into Marinesco bodies may represent a cellular response to noxious external stimuli unrelated to expanded CAG/polyglutamine.



Leptomeningeal metastases (LM) is often an elusive disease frequently diagnosed at an advanced clinical stage. Early diagnosis may allow for prompt initiation of treatment with minimal tumor burden and maximal chance of survival, especially in solid tumors such as breast cancer. Although the method of choice for imaging LM currently is by gadolinium enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), the technique has a high sensitivity but low specificity. We report the first case of Carbon 11-labelled methionine (Cmet) positron emission tomography (PET) imaging of leptomeningeal metastases in a patient with primary breast cancer. This patient presented with clinical features suggestive of LM, but had inconclusive cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) findings. Although, the contrast enhanced MRI revealed calvarial and meningeal lesions, it is known that meningeal enhancement on MRI does not always indicate metastases. In this clinical dilemma the strong methionine uptake on PET helped steer the diagnosis in favor of cancerous infiltration even before the CSF cytology became positive for malignancy.
The CNS response to injury is characterized by the rapid activation of astrocytes in a process known as astrogliosis. The function of reactive astrocytes is controversial, in that both beneficial and detrimental properties are postulated. Identification of the molecules involved in regulating astrogliosis is an important step towards understanding astrocyte functions and establishing suitable conditions for CNS regeneration. We previously reported that inflammatory cytokines are regulators of astrogliosis but the key cytokine involved in initiating astrogliosis was unclear. We describe here that the elevation of glial fibrillary acid protein (GFAP) transcripts follows the very early rise of interleukin (IL)-1beta mRNA in a murine corticectomy model of CNS lesion. Furthermore, the injury-induced upregulation of GFAP mRNA and protein did not occur in mice genetically deficient for IL-1beta compared to wild-type animals. This was correlated with an absence of an increase in GFAP-immunoreactivity (GFAP-ir) in IL-1beta-null mice at 2 and 3 days of injury. However, by 5 to 7 days after the lesion, GFAP-ir was not different between cytokine-deficient and wild-type controls. Functionally, mice lacking IL-1beta exhibited a significant impairment in reformation of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) following corticectomy compared to wild-type controls. These findings suggest that the rapid production of IL-1beta following trauma plays a beneficial role in initiating astrogliosis in an attempt to restore the integrity of the BBB and seal off the wound site.
Synaptic pathology is proposed to be integral to the clinical expression of Alzheimer disease (AD). Most studies have assessed only the vesicle protein synaptophysin as a measure of synaptic integrity. The interrelationships of synaptophysin, other presynaptic proteins, the cholinergic system, and severity of dementia in AD remain unclear. We studied the presynaptic proteins synaptophysin, syntaxin and SNAP-25, along with choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity in prefrontal cortex (BA 46) samples from 18 subjects with AD and 16 controls. Mean values of presynaptic protein immunoreactivities were significantly reduced, by 21%-28%, and ChAT activity was reduced by 41% in the AD groups. Synaptic protein immunoreactivity and ChAT activity were correlated with Mini-Mental State Examination scores obtained 1 yr prior to death. When AD cases were subgrouped into mild/moderate and severe illness at time of death, all differences in presynaptic proteins and ChAT activity were significant between controls and severe cases. However, no significant differences were detected in BA 46 between controls and mild/moderate cases. Considerable synaptic reserve or plasticity remains in BA 46 until the late stages of AD. Synaptophysin and ChAT appear to be more vulnerable in severe AD than are syntaxin or SNAP-25.
The consequence of exposure to microgravity on the otolith organs was studied by recording the responses of vestibular nerve afferents supplying the utricular otolith organ to inertial accelerations in four toadfish, Opsanus tau, sequentially for 5 days following two National Aeronautics and Space Administration shuttle orbital flights. Within the first day postflight, the magnitude of response to an applied translation was on average three times greater than for controls. The reduced gravitational acceleration in orbit apparently resulted in an upregulation of the sensitivity of utricular afferents. By 30 h postflight, responses were statistically similar to control. The time course of return to normal afferent sensitivity parallels the reported decrease in vestibular disorientation in astronauts following return from space.
The superficial layers of the entorhinal cortex (EC) provide the majority of the neocortical input to the hippocampus, and the deep layers of the EC receive the majority of neocortically bound hippocampal outputs. To characterize information transmission through the hippocampal and EC circuitry, we recorded simultaneously from neurons in the superficial EC, the CA1 region of hippocampus, and the deep EC while rodents ran for food reward in two environments. Spike waveform analysis allowed us to classify units as fast-spiking (FS) putative inhibitory cells or putative excitatory (PE) cells. PE and FS units' firing were often strongly correlated at short time scales, suggesting the presence a monosynaptic connection from the PE to FS units. EC PE units, unlike those found in CA1, showed little or no tendency to fire in bursts. We also found that the firing of FS and PE units from all regions was modulated by the approximately 8 Hz theta rhythm, although the firing of deep EC FS units tended to be less strongly modulated than that of the other types of units. When we examined the spatial specificity of FS units, we determined that FS units in all three regions showed low specificity. At the same time, retrospective coding, in which firing rates were related to past position, was present in FS units from all three regions and deep EC FS units often fired in a &quot;path equivalent&quot; manner in that they were active in physically different, but behaviorally related positions both within and across environments. Our results suggest that while the firing of FS units from CA1 and the EC show similarly low levels of position specificity, FS units from each region differ from one another in that they mirrored the associated PE units in terms of their tendency to show more complex positional firing properties like retrospective coding and path equivalence.
In humans, functional imaging studies have demonstrated a homologue of the macaque motion complex, MT+ [suggested to contain both middle temporal (MT) and medial superior temporal (MST)], in the ascending limb of the inferior temporal sulcus. In the macaque monkey, motion-sensitive areas MT and MST are adjacent in the superior temporal sulcus. Electrophysiological research has demonstrated that while MT receptive fields primarily encode the contralateral visual field, MST dorsal (MSTd) receptive fields extend well into the ipsilateral visual field. Additionally, macaque MST has been shown to receive extraretinal smooth-pursuit eye-movement signals, whereas MT does not. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and the neural properties that had been observed in monkeys to distinguish putative human areas MT from MST. Optic flow stimuli placed in the full field, or contralateral field only, produced a large cluster of functional activation in our subjects consistent with previous reports of human area MT+. Ipsilateral optic flow stimuli limited to the peripheral retina produced activation only in an anterior subsection of the MT+ complex, likely corresponding to putative MSTd. During visual pursuit of a single target, a large portion of the MT+ complex was activated. However, during nonvisual pursuit, only the anterolateral portion of the MT+ complex was activated. This subsection of the MT+ cluster could correspond to putative MSTl (lateral). In summary, we observed three distinct subregions of the human MT+ complex that were arranged in a manner similar to that seen in the monkey.
Motor units of segmental tail muscles were recorded in awake rats following acute (1-2 days) and chronic (&gt;30 days) sacral spinal cord transection to determine whether plateau potentials contributed to sustained motor-unit discharges after injury. This study was motivated by a companion in vitro study that indicated that after chronic spinal cord injury, the tail motoneurons of the sacrocaudal spinal cord exhibit persistent inward currents (I(PIC)) that cause intrinsically sustained depolarizations (plateau potentials) and firing (self-sustained firing). Importantly, in this companion study, the plateaus were fully activated at recruitment and subsequently helped sustain the firing without causing abrupt nonlinearities in firing. That is, after recruitment and plateau activation, the firing rate was modulated relatively linearly with injected current and therefore provided a good approximation of the input to the motoneuron despite the plateau. Thus in the present study, pairs of motor units were recorded simultaneously from the same muscle, and the firing rate (F) of the lowest-threshold unit (control unit) was used as an estimate of the synaptic input to both units. We then examined whether firing of the higher-threshold unit (test unit) was intrinsically maintained by a plateau, by determining whether more synaptic input was required to recruit the test unit than to maintain its firing. The difference in the estimated synaptic input at recruitment and de-recruitment of the test unit (i.e., change in control unit rate, DeltaF) was taken as an estimate of the plateau current (I(PIC)) that intrinsically sustained the firing. Slowly graded manual skin stimulation was used to recruit and then de-recruit the units. The test unit was recruited when the control unit rate was on average 17.8 and 18.9 Hz in acute and chronic spinal rats, respectively. In chronic spinal rats, the test unit was de-recruited when the control unit rate (re: estimated synaptic input) was significantly reduced, compared with at recruitment (DeltaF = -5.5 Hz), and thus a plateau participated in maintaining the firing. In the lowest-threshold motor units, even a brief stimulation triggered very long-lasting firing (seconds to hours; self-sustained firing). Higher-threshold units required continuous stimulation (or a spontaneous spasm) to cause firing, but again more synaptic input was needed to recruit the unit than to maintain its firing (i.e., plateau present). In contrast, in acute spinal rats, the stimulation did not usually trigger sustained motor-unit firing that could be attributed to plateaus because DeltaF was not significantly different from zero. These results indicate that plateaus play an important role in sustaining motor-unit firing in awake chronic spinal rats and thus contribute to the hyperreflexia and hypertonus associated with chronic injury.
Intracellular recordings were made from sacrocaudal tail motoneurons of acute and chronic spinal rats to examine whether plateau potentials contribute to spasticity associated with chronic injury. The spinal cord was transected at the S2 level, causing, over time, exaggerated long-lasting reflexes (hyperreflexia) associated with a general spasticity syndrome in the tail muscles of chronic spinal rats (1-5 mo postinjury). The whole sacrocaudal spinal cord of chronic or acute spinal rats was removed and maintained in vitro in normal artificial cerebral spinal fluid (ACSF). Hyperreflexia in chronic spinal rats was verified by recording the long-lasting ventral root responses to dorsal root stimulation in vitro. The intrinsic properties of sacrocaudal motoneurons were studied using intracellular injections of slow triangular current ramps or graded current pulses. In chronic spinal rats, the current injection triggered sustained firing and an associated sustained depolarization (plateau potential; 34/35 cells; mean, 5.5 mV; duration &gt;5 s; normal ACSF). The threshold for plateau initiation was low and usually corresponded to an acceleration in the membrane potential just before recruitment. After recruitment and plateau activation, the firing rate changed linearly with current during the slow ramps [63% of cells had a linear frequency-current (F-I) relation] despite the presence of the plateau. The persistent inward current (I(PIC)) producing the plateau and sustained firing was estimated to be on average 0.8 nA as determined by the reduction in injected current needed to stop the sustained firing [DeltaI = -0.8 +/- 0.6 (SD) nA], compared with the current needed to start firing (I = 1.7 +/- 1.5 nA; 47% reduction). In motoneurons of acute spinal rats, plateaus were rarely seen (3/22), although they could be made to occur with bath application of serotonin. In motoneurons of chronic spinal rats there were no significant changes in the mean passive input resistance, rheobase or amplitude of the spike afterhyperpolarization (AHP) as compared with acute spinal rats. However, there were significant increases in AHP duration and initial firing rate at recruitment and decreases in minimum firing rate and F-I slope. We suggest that the higher initial firing rate resulted from the plateau activation at recruitment and the lower F-I slope resulted from an increase in active conductance during firing, due to I(PIC). Brief dorsal root stimulation also triggered a plateau and sustained discharge (long-lasting reflexes; 2-5 s) in motoneurons of chronic (but not acute) spinal rats. When the plateau was eliminated by a hyperpolarizing current bias, the reflex response was significantly shortened (to 1 s). Thus plateaus contributed substantially to the long-lasting reflexes in vitro and therefore should contribute significantly to the corresponding exaggerated reflexes and spasticity in awake chronic spinal rats.
Rabbit trace eyeblink conditioning is a hippocampus-dependent task in which the auditory conditioned stimulus (CS) is separated from the corneal airpuff unconditioned stimulus (US) by a 500-ms empty trace interval. Young rabbits are able to associate the CS and US and acquire trace eyeblink conditioned responses (CRs); however, a subset of aged rabbits show poor learning on this task. Several studies have shown that CA1-hippocampal activity is altered by aging; however, it is unknown how aging affects the interaction of CA1 single neurons within local ensembles during learning. The present study examined the extracellular activity of CA1 pyramidal neurons within local ensembles in aged (29-34 mo) and young (3-6 mo) rabbits during 10 daily sessions (80 trials/session) of trace eyeblink conditioning. A single surgically implanted nonmovable stereotrode was used to record ensembles ranging in size from 2 to 12 separated single neurons. A total of six young and four aged rabbits acquired significant levels of CRs, whereas five aged rabbits showed very few CRs similar to a group of five young pseudoconditioned rabbits. Pyramidal cells (2,159 total) were recorded from these four groups during training. Increases in CA1 pyramidal cell firing to the CS and US were diminished in the aged nonlearners. Local ensembles from all groups contained heterogeneous types of pyramidal cell responses. Some cells showed increases while others showed decreases in firing during the trace eyeblink trial. Hierarchical clustering was used to isolate seven different classes of single-neuron responses that showed unique firing patterns during the trace conditioning trial. The proportion of cells in each group was similar for six of seven response classes. Unlike the excitatory modeling patterns reported in previous studies, three of seven response types (67% of recorded cells) exhibited some type of inhibitory decrease to the CS, US, or both. The single-neuron response classes showed different patterns of learning-related activity across training. Several of the single-neuron types from the aged nonlearners showed unique alterations in response magnitude to the CS and US. Cross-correlation analyses suggest that specific single-neuron types provide more correlated single-neuron activity to the ensemble processing of information. However, aged nonlearners showed a significantly lower level of coincident pyramidal cell firing for all cell types within local ensembles in CA1.
Activation of muscarinic receptors and GABA(B) receptors causes presynaptic inhibition of glutamatergic synaptic potentials at excitatory feedback connections in cortical structures. These effects may regulate dynamics in cortical structures, with presynaptic inhibition allowing extrinsic afferent input to dominate during encoding, while the absence of presynaptic inhibition allows stronger excitatory feedback during retrieval or consolidation. However, proposals for a functional role of such modulatory effects strongly depend on the time course of these modulatory effects; how rapidly can they turn off and on? In brain slice preparations of hippocampal region CA1, we have explored the time course of suppression of extracellularly recorded synaptic potentials after pressure pulse application of acetylcholine and GABA. Acetylcholine causes suppression of extracellular potentials with onset time constants between 1 and 2 s, and decay constants ranging between 10 and 20 s, even with very brief injection pulses. GABA causes suppression of extracellular potentials with onset time constants between 0.2 and 0.7 s, and decay time constants that decrease to values shorter than 2 s for very brief injection pulses. These techniques do not give an exact measure of the physiological time course in vivo, but they give a notion of the relative time course of the two modulators. The slow changes due to activation of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors may alter the dynamics of cortical circuits over longer intervals (e.g., between different stages of waking and sleep), setting dynamics appropriate for encoding versus consolidation processes. The faster changes in synaptic potentials caused by GABA could cause changes within each cycle of the theta rhythm, rapidly switching between encoding and retrieval dynamics during exploration.
To explore the process of motor command generation for the ocular following response, we recorded the activity of single neurons in the medial superior temporal (MST) area of the cortex, the dorsolateral pontine nucleus (DLPN), and the ventral paraflocculus (VPFL) of the cerebellum of alert monkeys during ocular following elicited by sudden movements of a large-field pattern. Using second-order linear-regression models, we analyzed the quantitative relationships between neuronal firing frequency patterns and eye movements or retinal errors specified by three parameters (position, velocity, and acceleration). We first attempted to reconstruct the temporal waveform of each neuronal response to each visual stimulus and computed the coefficients for each parameter using the least-square error method for each stimulus condition. The temporal firing patterns were generally well reconstructed [coefficient of determination index (CD) &gt; 0.7] from either the retinal error or the associated ocular following response. In the MST and DLPN datasets, however, the fit with the retinal error model was generally better than with the eye-movement model, and the estimated coefficients of acceleration and velocity ranged widely, indicating that temporal patterns in these regions showed considerable diversity. The acceleration component is greater in MST and DLPN than in VPFL, suggesting that an integration occurs in this pathway. When we determined how well the temporal patterns of the neuronal responses of a given cell could be reconstructed for all visual stimuli using a single set of coefficients, good fits were found only for Purkinje cells (P- cells) in the VPFL using the eye-movement model. In these cases, the coefficients of acceleration and velocity for each cell were similar, and the mean ratio of the acceleration and velocity coefficients was close to that of motor neurons. These results indicate that individual MST and DLPN neurons are each encoding some selective aspects of the sensory stimulus (visual motion), whereas the P-cells in VPFL are encoding the complete dynamic command signals for the associated motor response (ocular following). We conclude that the sensory-to-motor transformation for the ocular following response occurs at the P-cells in VPFL.
Electromyographic (EMG) activity was recorded in &lt; or = 12 neck muscles in four alert monkeys whose heads were unrestrained to describe the spatial and temporal patterns of neck muscle activation accompanying a large range of head postures and movements. Some head postures and movements were elicited by training animals to generate gaze shifts to visual targets. Other spontaneous head movements were made during orienting, tracking, feeding, expressive, and head-shaking behaviors. These latter movements exhibited a wider range of kinematic patterns. Stable postures and small head movements of only a few degrees were associated with activation of a small number of muscles in a reproducible synergy. Additional muscles were recruited for more eccentric postures and larger movements. For head movements during trained gaze shifts, movement amplitude, velocity, and acceleration were correlated linearly and agonist muscles were recruited without antagonist muscles. Complex sequences of reciprocal bursts in agonist and antagonist muscles were observed during very brisk movements. Turning movements of similar amplitudes that began from different initial head positions were associated with systematic variations in the activities of different muscles and in the relative timings of these activities. Unique recruitment synergies were observed during feeding and head-shaking behaviors. Our results emphasize that the recruitment of a given muscle was generally ordered and consistent but that strategies for coordination among various neck muscles were often complex and appeared to depend on the specifics of musculoskeletal architecture, posture, and movement kinematics that differ substantially among species.
Morphometric methods were used to describe the musculotendinous lengths, fascicle lengths, pennation angles, and cross-sectional areas of neck muscles in adult Macaca mulatta monkeys. Additionally, muscles were frozen, sectioned, and stained for ATPase activity to determine fiber-type composition. Individual rhesus muscles were found to vary widely in their degree of similarity to feline and human muscles studied previously. Suboccipital muscles and muscles supplied by the spinal accessory nerve were most similar to human homologs, whereas most other muscles exhibited architectural specializations. Many neck muscles were architecturally complex, with multiple attachments and internal aponeuroses or tendinous inscriptions that affected the determination of their cross-sectional areas. All muscles were composed of a mixture of type I, IIa, and IIb fiber types the relative proportions of which varied. Typically, head-turning muscles had lower proportions of type II (fast) fibers than homologous feline muscles, whereas extensor muscles contained higher proportions of type II fibers. The physical and histochemical specializations described here are known to have a direct bearing on functional properties, such as force-developing capacity and fatigue-resistance. These specializations must be recognized if muscles are to be modeled accurately or studied electrophysiologically.
The role of voltage-dependent channels in shaping subthreshold excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) in neocortical layer 5 pyramidal neurons from rat medial prefrontal cortex (PFC) was investigated using patch-clamp recordings from visually identified neurons in brain slices. Small-amplitude EPSPs evoked by stimulation of superficial layers were not affected by the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist D-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid but were abolished by the AMPA receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxalene-2,3-dione, suggesting that they were primarily mediated by AMPA receptors. AMPA receptor-mediated EPSPs (AMPA-EPSPs) evoked in the apical dendrites were markedly enhanced, or increased in peak and duration, at depolarized holding potentials. Enhancement of AMPA-EPSPs was reduced by loading the cells with lidocaine N-ethylbromide (QX-314) and by local application of the Na(+) channel blocker tetrodotoxin (TTX) to the soma but not to the middle/proximal apical dendrite. In contrast, blockade of Ca(2+) channels by co-application of Cd(2+) and Ni(2+) to the soma or apical dendrite did not affect the AMPA-EPSPs. Like single EPSPs, EPSP trains were shaped by Na(+) but not Ca(2+) channels. EPSPs simulated by injecting synaptic-like current into proximal/middle apical dendrite (simEPSPs) were enhanced at depolarized holding potentials similarly to AMPA-EPSPs. Extensive blockade of Ca(2+) channels by bath application of the Cd(2+) and Ni(2+) mixture had no effects on simEPSPs, whereas bath-applied TTX removed the depolarization-dependent EPSP amplification. Inhibition of K(+) currents by 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) and TEA increased the TTX-sensitive EPSP amplification. Moreover, strong inhibition of K(+) currents by high concentrations of 4-AP and TEA revealed a contribution of Ca(2+) channels to EPSPs that, however, seemed to be dependent on Na(+) channel activation. Our results indicate that in layer 5 pyramidal neurons from PFC, Na(+), and K(+) voltage-gated channels shape EPSPs within the voltage range that is subthreshold for somatic action potentials.
We asked whether podokinetic adaptation to walking on a circular treadmill transfers to different forms of locomotion. Subjects were blindfolded and asked to walk straight across the floor, in the forward and backward directions, following podokinetic (PK) stimulation that consisted of 30 min of forward walking-in-place on the perimeter of a disk rotating in the clockwise direction. During both forward and backward walking following forward-walking PK stimulation, subjects involuntarily walked along curved trajectories at angular velocities well above vestibular threshold, although they perceived that they were walking along straight paths. The curved paths of forward and backward walking were indistinguishable from one another. Transfer of PK adaptations acquired during forward walking on the turntable to backward walking trials suggests that the PK system controls general locomotor trajectory. Adaptation of the system thus influences forms of locomotion other than that used during acquisition of the adaptation. This transfer also supports the concept that forward and backward walking are controlled by neural networks that share common elements. An interesting feature of the transfer of PK adaptation is that for both forward and backward walking, subjects turned in a counterclockwise direction. As such, the direction of relative rotation between the trunk and feet was maintained for both forward and backward walking. However, the relationship of the lower extremities to the center of rotation was not preserved. The left limb was the inner leg during PK stimulation and forward walking after adaptation, but the left leg was the outer leg during backward walking. These results suggest that PK adaptation affects general locomotor trajectory via a remodeling of the rotational relationship between the trunk and the feet.
Zinc and copper are highly concentrated in several mammalian brain regions, including the olfactory bulb and hippocampus. Whole cell electrophysiological recordings were made from rat olfactory bulb neurons in primary culture to compare the effects of zinc and copper on synaptic transmission and voltage-gated ion channels. Application of either zinc or copper eliminated GABA-mediated spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic potentials. However, in contrast to the similarity of their effects on inhibitory transmission, spontaneous glutamate-mediated excitatory synaptic activity was completely blocked by copper but only inhibited by zinc. Among voltage-gated ion channels, zinc or copper inhibited TTX-sensitive sodium channels and delayed rectifier-type potassium channels but did not prevent the firing of evoked single action potentials or dramatically alter their kinetics. Zinc and copper had distinct effects on transient A-type potassium currents. Whereas copper only inhibited the A-type current, zinc modulation of A-type currents resulted in either potentiation or inhibition of the current depending on the membrane potential. The effects of zinc and copper on potassium channels likely underlie their effects on repetitive firing in response to long-duration step depolarizations. Copper reduced repetitive firing independent of the initial membrane voltage. In contrast, whereas zinc reduced repetitive firing at membrane potentials associated with zinc-mediated enhancement of the A-type current (-50 mV), in a significant proportion of neurons, zinc increased repetitive firing at membrane potentials associated with zinc-mediated inhibition of the A-type current (-90 mV). Application of zinc or copper also inhibited voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels, suggesting a possible role for presynaptic modulation of neurotransmitter release. Despite similarities between the effects of zinc and copper on some ligand- and voltage-gated ion channels, these data suggest that their net effects likely contribute to differential modulation of neuronal excitability.
The horizontal angular vestibuloocular reflex (VOR) evoked by sinusoidal rotations from 0.5 to 15 Hz and acceleration steps up to 3,000 degrees /s(2) to 150 degrees /s was studied in six squirrel monkeys following adaptation with x2.2 magnifying and x0.45 minimizing spectacles. For sinusoidal rotations with peak velocities of 20 degrees /s, there were significant changes in gain at all frequencies; however, the greatest gain changes occurred at the lower frequencies. The frequency- and velocity-dependent gain enhancement seen in normal monkeys was accentuated following adaptation to magnifying spectacles and diminished with adaptation to minimizing spectacles. A differential increase in gain for the steps of acceleration was noted after adaptation to the magnifying spectacles. The gain during the acceleration portion, G(A), of a step of acceleration (3,000 degrees /s(2) to 150 degrees /s) increased from preadaptation values of 1.05 +/- 0.08 to 1.96 +/- 0.16, while the gain during the velocity plateau, G(V), only increased from 0.93 +/- 0.04 to 1.36 +/- 0.08. Polynomial fits to the trajectory of the response during the acceleration step revealed a greater increase in the cubic than the linear term following adaptation with the magnifying lenses. Following adaptation to the minimizing lenses, the value of G(A) decreased to 0.61 +/- 0.08, and the value of G(V) decreased to 0.59 +/- 0.09 for the 3,000 degrees /s(2) steps of acceleration. Polynomial fits to the trajectory of the response during the acceleration step revealed that there was a significantly greater reduction in the cubic term than in the linear term following adaptation with the minimizing lenses. These findings indicate that there is greater modification of the nonlinear as compared with the linear component of the VOR with spectacle-induced adaptation. In addition, the latency to the onset of the adapted response varied with the dynamics of the stimulus. The findings were modeled with a bilateral model of the VOR containing linear and nonlinear pathways that describe the normal behavior and adaptive processes. Adaptation for the linear pathway is described by a transfer function that shows the dependence of adaptation on the frequency of the head movement. The adaptive process for the nonlinear pathway is a gain enhancement element that provides for the accentuated gain with rising head velocity and the increased cubic component of the responses to steps of acceleration. While this model is substantially different from earlier models of VOR adaptation, it accounts for the data in the present experiments and also predicts the findings observed in the earlier studies.
In common with other sensory cortices, the mammalian primary auditory cortex (AI) demonstrates the capacity for large-scale reorganization following many experimental situations. For example, training animals in frequency-discrimination tasks has been shown to result in an increase in cortical frequency representation. Such central changes-most commonly, an increase in central representation of specific stimulus parameters-have been hypothesized to underlie the improvements in perceptual acuity (perceptual learning) seen in many learning situations. The actual behavioral relevance of central reorganizations, however, remains speculative. Here, we directly examine this issue. We first show that stimulating the AI cortex of the awake rat with a weak electric current (intracortical microstimulation or ICMS) has the effect of inducing central reorganizations similar to those accompanying the traditional plasticity experiments (a result previously noted only in anesthetized preparations). Depending on the site of AI stimulation, ICMS enlarged the cortical representation of certain frequencies. Next we examined the direct perceptual consequences of ICMS-induced AI reorganization for the rat's ability to discriminate frequencies. Over the course of the experiment, we also detailed, and made comparisons between, the frequency-response characteristics of rat AI cortex in the awake and ketamine-anesthetized animal. AI cells that responded to pure tones were divided into two categories--strongly and weakly responsive--based on the strength of their evoked discharge. Individual cells maintained their respective response strengths in both awake and anesthetized conditions. Strongly responsive cells showed at least four different temporal responses and tended to be narrowly tuned. Their responses were stable over the long term. In general frequency-response characteristics were qualitatively similar in the anesthetized and awake animal; bandwidths tended to be broader in awake animals. Although both strong and weak cell populations respond to tones, only the strongly responsive cells fit into a tonotopically organized scheme. By contrast, weakly responsive cells did not exhibit a frequency mapping and may represent a more diffuse input to AI than that underlying strongly responsive cells. In general, the overall frequency organization of AI was found to be equally well expressed in both the awake and anesthetized rat. ICMS reorganization of AI did not alter frequency-discrimination behavior in the rat--either signal detectability or response bias--suggesting that an increase in central representation, by itself, is insufficient to account for perceptual learning. It is likely that cortical reorganizations that accompany perceptual learning are strongly keyed to specific behavioral contexts.

One of the main characteristics of central sensitization associated with postinjury pain and chronic pain is increased excitability of the dorsal horn neurons in the spinal cord. Two electrophysiological features associated with the origin and modulation of central sensitization are wind-up of action potential frequency and long-term potentiation (LTP), which have been demonstrated previously in the intact dorsal horn. Here we present evidence for electrically evoked sensitization of dorsal horn neurons in a two-compartment cell culture system of rat dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) and dorsal horn neurons. Whole-cell recordings of dorsal horn neurons showed that repetitive low-frequency stimulation of DRG axons induced a frequency-dependent cumulative depolarization of the membrane potential with a concomitant increase in action potential frequency in a subset of neurons (41%). The characteristics presented here for dissociated cells are in accordance with those ascribed to classical wind-up in the intact dorsal horn. In addition, tetanic stimulation of DRG axons resulted in a significant increase in the number of action potentials in response to test stimuli in 42% of the cells tested. This prolonged potentiation of neuronal excitability in the dorsal horn lasted throughout the recording period (&gt;1 hr) and tended to be voltage dependent in an LTP-like manner. To our knowledge, this is the first time that wind-up and LTP-like responses are reported for dorsal horn neurons in cell culture.
Orexins (also called hypocretins) are peptide neurotransmitters expressed in neurons of the lateral hypothalamic area (LHA). Mice lacking the orexin peptides develop narcolepsy-like symptoms, whereas mice with a selective loss of the orexin neurons develop hypophagia and severe obesity in addition to the narcolepsy phenotype. These different phenotypes suggest that orexin neurons may contain neurotransmitters besides orexin that regulate feeding and energy balance. Dynorphin neurons are common in the LHA, and dynorphin has been shown to influence feeding; hence, we studied whether dynorphin and orexin are colocalized. In rats, double-label in situ hybridization revealed that nearly all (94%) neurons expressing prepro-orexin mRNA also expressed prodynorphin mRNA. The converse was also true: 96% of neurons in the LHA containing prodynorphin mRNA also expressed prepro-orexin mRNA. Double-label immunohistochemistry confirmed that orexin-A and dynorphin-A peptides were highly colocalized in the LHA. Wild-type mice and orexin knock-out mice showed abundant prodynorphin mRNA-expressing neurons in the LHA, but orexin/ataxin-3 mice with a selective loss of the orexin neurons completely lacked prodynorphin mRNA in this area, further confirming that within the LHA, dynorphin expression is restricted to the orexin neurons. These findings suggest that dynorphin-A may play an important role in the function of the orexin neurons.
A persistent question concerning mechanisms underlying long-term, activity-dependent synaptic plasticity is whether the sites of alterations are presynaptic, postsynaptic, or both. Recently, we discovered a chemical method of inducing long-term depression (LTD) of synaptic strength at Schaffer collateral-CA1 synapses by simultaneously elevating [cGMP] and inhibiting cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA). Chemical LTD (CLTD) is activity-independent, occluded by stimulus-evoked LTD, and requires access of pharmacologic agents to presynaptic terminals. In the present study, we used fluorescence and two-photon imaging of presynaptic terminals with the fluorescent dye N-(3-triethylammoniumpropyl)-4-(4-(dibutylamino)styryl) pyridinium dibromide (FM1-43) to determine directly if inducing CLTD is associated with a long-term reduction in transmitter release. In presynaptic Schaffer collateral-CA1 terminals of control hippocampal slices loaded with FM1-43, electrical stimulation (10 Hz/2 min) elicited a frequency-dependent destaining that peaked at 20% reduction in fluorescence. In contrast, when we first induced CLTD by a 30 min treatment of slices with the type V phosphodiesterase inhibitor zaprinast (20 microm) plus the PKA inhibitor N-[2-(p-bromocinnamylamino)ethyl]-5-isoquinolinesulfonamide (H-89; 10 microm), then washed for 60 min, the destaining of FM1-43 fluorescence evoked by the same stimulation was reduced to 4%. Treatment and washout of slices with either drug singly had a significantly smaller effect on stimulus-evoked FM1-43 destaining. Only CLTD was associated with virtually complete suppression of stimulus-evoked FM1-43 release, the first direct evidence for at least one form of LTD being mediated by persistent reduction of presynaptic transmitter release.
Somatodendritic release of dopamine (DA) in midbrain represents a novel form of intercellular signaling that inherently differs from classic axon-terminal release. Here we report marked differences in the Ca(2+) dependence and time course of stimulated increases in extracellular DA concentration ([DA](o)) between the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) and striatum. Evoked [DA](o) was monitored with carbon-fiber microelectrodes and fast-scan cyclic voltammetry in brain slices. In striatum, pulse-train stimulation (10 Hz, 30 pulses) failed to evoke detectable [DA](o) in 0 or 0.5 mm Ca(2+) but elicited robust release in 1.5 mm Ca(2+). Release increased progressively in 2.0 and 2.4 mm Ca(2+). In sharp contrast, evoked [DA](o) in SNc was nearly half-maximal in 0 mm Ca(2+) and increased significantly in 0.5 mm Ca(2+). Surprisingly, somatodendritic release was maximal in 1.5 mm Ca(2+), with no change in 2.0 or 2.4 mm Ca(2+). Additionally, after single-pulse stimulation, evoked [DA](o) in striatum reached a maximum (t(max)) in &lt;200 msec, whereas in SNc, [DA](o) continued to rise for 2-3 sec. Similarly, the time for [DA](o) to decay to 50% of maximum (t(50)) was 12-fold longer in SNc than striatum. A delayed t(max) in SNc compared with striatum persisted when DA uptake was inhibited by GBR-12909 and D(2) autoreceptors were blocked by sulpiride, although these agents eliminated the difference in t(50). Together, these data implicate different release mechanisms in striatum and SNc, with minimal Ca(2+) required to trigger prolonged DA release in SNc. Coupled with limited uptake, prolonged somatodendritic release would facilitate DA-mediated volume transmission in midbrain.
The effects of signals transmitted from the brain to the spinal locomotor networks by a population of command neurons are determined by specific functional projections of each individual neuron. To reveal these projections, we used a simple vertebrate model, the lamprey, in which responses of the spinal networks to spikes in single reticulospinal axons were detected by using the spike-triggered averaging of the motoneuronal activity. We found that individual neurons exert a uniform effect on the segmental motor output along the whole extent of their axons. Twenty different patterns of effect, that is, combinations of influences on the segmental motoneuron pools, were found. The widespread projections and heterogeneity of the population of command neurons present a basis for formation of different gross motor synergies.
The Wisconsin Card Sorting Task (WCST) has been used to assess dysfunction of the prefrontal cortex and basal ganglia. Previous brain imaging studies have focused on identifying activity related to the set-shifting requirement of the WCST. The present study used event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to study the pattern of activation during four distinct stages in the performance of this task. Eleven subjects were scanned while performing the WCST and a control task involving matching two identical cards. The results demonstrated specific involvement of different prefrontal areas during different stages of task performance. The mid-dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (area 9/46) increased activity while subjects received either positive or negative feedback, that is at the point when the current information must be related to earlier events stored in working memory. This is consistent with the proposed role of the mid-dorsolateral prefrontal cortex in the monitoring of events in working memory. By contrast, a cortical basal ganglia loop involving the mid-ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (area 47/12), caudate nucleus, and mediodorsal thalamus increased activity specifically during the reception of negative feedback, which signals the need for a mental shift to a new response set. The posterior prefrontal cortex response was less specific; increases in activity occurred during both the reception of feedback and the response period, indicating a role in the association of specific actions to stimuli. The putamen exhibited increased activity while matching after negative feedback but not while matching after positive feedback, implying greater involvement during novel than routine actions.
Deleterious processes of extracellular proteolysis may contribute to the progression of tissue damage after acute brain injury. We recently showed that matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) knock-out mice were protected against ischemic and traumatic brain injury. In this study, we examined the mechanisms involved by focusing on relevant MMP-9 substrates in blood-brain barrier, matrix, and white matter. MMP-9 knock-out and wild-type mice were subjected to transient focal ischemia. MMP-9 levels increased after ischemia in wild-type brain, with expression primarily present in vascular endothelium. Western blots showed that the blood-brain barrier-associated protein and MMP-9 substrate zonae occludens-1 was degraded after ischemia, but this was reduced in knock-out mice. There were no detectable changes in another blood-brain barrier-associated protein, occludin. Correspondingly, blood-brain barrier disruption assessed via Evans Blue leakage was significantly attenuated in MMP-9 knock-out mice compared with wild types. In white matter, ischemic degradation of the MMP-9 substrate myelin basic protein was significantly reduced in knock-out mice compared with wild types, whereas there was no degradation of other myelin proteins that are not MMP substrates (proteolipid protein and DM20). There were no detectable changes in the ubiquitous structural protein actin or the extracellular matrix protein laminin. Finally, 24 hr lesion volumes were significantly reduced in knock-out mice compared with wild types. These data demonstrate that the protective effects of MMP-9 gene knock-out after transient focal ischemia may be mediated by reduced proteolytic degradation of critical blood-brain barrier and white matter components.
Neuronal migration is an essential developmental step in the construction of the vertebrate nervous system, but the extracellular signals involved in initiating and regulating neuronal movement remain unclear. Here we report the identification of a novel astrocyte-derived migration-inducing activity (MIA). Using an in vitro assay, we show that MIA induces the migration of olfactory bulb interneuron precursors, increasing the number of migrating cells and the distance they move. We established quantitative criteria to distinguish between the biological effects of inducers, inhibitors, repellents, and attractants on migrating cells and used them to compare the effects of MIA with those of Slit, a putative repulsive guidance cue. Our analysis demonstrates that, by themselves, MIA induces and Slit inhibits migration from subventricular zone explants. However, when presented together with MIA, Slit acts as a repellent. This study shows that glial cells play a critical role in initiating and modulating the movement of neuronal precursors through the release of a diffusible protein. Moreover, this study provides evidence that the guidance of migrating neuronal precursors is an integrative process, resulting from the cooperation of distinct extracellular factors, and that the function of Slit is context dependent.
Elevated levels of beta-Amyloid (Abeta) are present in the brains of individuals with either the sporadic or familial form of Alzheimer's disease (AD), and the deposition of Abeta within the senile plaques that are a hallmark of AD is thought to be a primary cause of the cognitive dysfunction that occurs in AD. Recent evidence suggests that Abeta induces neuronal apoptosis in the brain and in primary neuronal cultures, and that this Abeta-induced neuronal death may be responsible in part for the cognitive decline found in AD patients. In this study we have characterized one mechanism by which Abeta induces neuronal death. We found that in cortical neurons exposed to Abeta, activated c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) is required for the phosphorylation and activation of the c-Jun transcription factor, which in turn stimulates the transcription of several key target genes, including the death inducer Fas ligand. The binding of Fas ligand to its receptor Fas then induces a cascade of events that lead to caspase activation and ultimately cell death. By analyzing the effects of mutations in each of the components of the JNK-c-Jun-Fas ligand-Fas pathway, we demonstrate that this pathway plays a critical role in mediating Abeta-induced death of cultured neurons. These findings raise the possibility that the JNK pathway may also contribute to Abeta-dependent death in AD patients.
Gap junctions are conductive channels that connect the interiors of coupled cells. In the hippocampus, GABA-containing hippocampal interneurons are interconnected by gap junctions, which mediate electrical coupling and synchronous firing and thereby promote inhibitory transmission. The present study was undertaken to examine the hypothesis that the gap junctional proteins connexin 32 (Cx32; expressed by oligodendrocytes, interneurons, or both), Cx36 (expressed by interneurons), and Cx43 (expressed by astrocytes) play a role in defining cell-specific patterns of neuronal death in hippocampus after global ischemia in mice. Global ischemia did not significantly alter Cx32 and Cx36 mRNA expression and slightly increased Cx43 mRNA expression in the vulnerable CA1, as assessed by Northern blot analysis and in situ hybridization. Global ischemia induced a selective increase in Cx32 and Cx36 but not Cx43 protein abundance in CA1 before onset of neuronal death, as assessed by Western blot analysis. The increase in Cx32 and Cx36 expression was intense and specific to parvalbumin-positive inhibitory interneurons of CA1, as assessed by double immunofluorescence. Protein abundance was unchanged in CA3 and dentate gyrus. The finding of increase in connexin protein without increase in mRNA suggests regulation of Cx32 and Cx36 expression at the translational or post-translational level. Cx32(Y/-) null mice exhibited enhanced vulnerability to brief ischemic insults, consistent with a role for Cx32 gap junctions in neuronal survival. These findings suggest that Cx32 and Cx36 gap junctions may contribute to the survival and resistance of GABAergic interneurons, thereby defining cell-specific patterns of global ischemia-induced neuronal death.
The receptive field of the Y-ganglion cell comprises two excitatory mechanisms: one integrates linearly over a narrow field, and the other integrates nonlinearly over a wide field. The linear mechanism has been attributed to input from bipolar cells, and the nonlinear mechanism has been attributed to input from a class of amacrine cells whose nonlinear &quot;subunits&quot; extend across the linear receptive field and beyond. However, the central component of the nonlinear mechanism could in theory be driven by bipolar input if that input were rectified. Recording intracellularly from the Y-cell in guinea pig retina, we blocked the peripheral component of the nonlinear mechanism with tetrodotoxin and found the remaining nonlinear receptive field to be precisely co-spatial with the central component of the linear receptive field. Both linear and nonlinear mechanisms were caused by an excitatory postsynaptic potential that reversed near 0 mV. The nonlinear mechanism depended neither on acetylcholine nor on feedback involving GABA or glycine. Thus the central components of the ganglion cell's linear and nonlinear mechanisms are apparently driven by synapses from the same rectifying bipolar cell.
Neuronal apoptosis plays an essential role in early brain development and contributes to secondary neuronal loss after acute brain injury. Recent studies have provided evidence that neuronal susceptibility to apoptosis induced by traumatic or ischemic injury decreases during brain development. However, the molecular mechanisms responsible for this age-dependent phenomenon remain unclear. Here we demonstrate that, during brain maturation, the potential of the intrinsic apoptotic pathway is progressively reduced and that such repression is associated with downregulation of apoptotic protease-activating factor-1 (Apaf-1) and caspase-3 gene expression. A similar decline in apoptotic susceptibility associated with downregulation of Apaf-1 expression as a function of developmental age was also found in cultured primary rat cortical neurons. Injury-induced cytochrome c-specific cleavage of caspase-9 followed by activation of caspase-3 in mature brain correlated with marked increases in Apaf-1 and caspase-3 mRNA and protein expression. These results suggest that differential expression of Apaf-1 and caspase-3 genes may underlie regulation of apoptotic susceptibility during brain development, as well as after acute injury to mature brain, through the intrinsic pathway of caspase activation.
We have recently shown that cholinergic effects on synaptic transmission and plasticity in the superficial (II/III) layers of the rat medial entorhinal cortex (EC) are similar, but not identical, to those in the hippocampus (Yun et al. [2000] Neuroscience 97:671-676). Because the superficial and deep layers of the EC preferentially convey afferent and efferent hippocampal projections, respectively, it is of interest to compare cholinergic effects between the two regions. We therefore investigated the physiological effects of cholinergic agents in the layer V of medial EC slices under experimental conditions identical to those in the previous study. Bath application of carbachol (0.5 microM) induced transient depression of field potential responses in all cases tested (30 of 30; 18.5% +/- 2.3%) and rarely induced long-lasting potentiation (only 3 of 30; 20.4% +/- 3.2% in successful cases). At 5 microM, carbachol induced transient depression only (20 of 20, 48.9% +/- 2.8%), which was blocked by atropine (10 microM). Paired-pulse facilitation was enhanced during carbachol-induced depression, suggesting presynaptic action of carbachol. Long-term potentiation (LTP) could be induced in the presence of 10 microM atropine by theta burst stimulation, but its magnitude was significantly lower (9.1% +/- 4.7%, n = 15) compared to LTP in control slices (22.4% +/- 3.9%, n = 20). These results, combined with our previous findings, demonstrate remarkably similar cholinergic modulation of synaptic transmission and plasticity across the superficial and deep layers of EC.
Extensive evidence suggests that BDNF regulates neural function and architecture after depolarization. Expression of BDNF is increased after depolarization, and the ability of BDNF to modulate synaptic function is well documented. To further investigate BDNF signaling after activity, we analyzed the effects of depolarization or BDNF treatment on receptor mRNA expression in cultured basal forebrain neurons. Levels of mRNA coding for the cognate BDNF receptor, trkB, as well as the common neurotrophin receptor, p75, were quantitated simultaneously using a sensitive solution hybridization technique. Depolarization or BDNF treatment increased p75 mRNA expression 94% and 195%, respectively. In contrast, trkB message decreased 23% after depolarization but was unchanged by BDNF treatment. Together, these changes resulted in significant increases in the p75/trkB ratio after depolarization or BDNF treatment that could alter BDNF binding or signal transduction.
The existence of stem cells in the CNS raises issues concerning the ability of nervous tissues to regenerate in the adult mammal and provides new perspectives on the treatment of degenerative disease and traumatic injury of the nervous system. These cells have a relatively limited range of locations within the nervous system and include cells of the rostral migratory stream, hippocampus, retina, and olfactory epithelium. The olfactory epithelium has been studied as a model of adult neuronal regeneration, with neuronal precursor/basal cells serving as the olfactory &quot;stem cells.&quot; The identification of factors that promote neuronal proliferation or regeneration within the olfactory epithelium can provide clues to the process of adult mammalian nervous system repair and treatment. Multiple factors have been examined that appear to influence the proliferation and subsequent maturation of basal cells. These factors include nerve growth factor, fibroblast growth factor-2, epidermal growth factor, and insulin/insulin-like growth factor-1. Recently, two amidated neuropeptides, neuropeptide Y (NPY) and pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP38), identified in the olfactory epithelium have been shown to promote dramatically neuronal proliferation. The effects of NPY and PACAP suggest that amidated neuropeptides may serve a broad developmental and regenerative role in the mammalian olfactory epithelium.
Transoral decompression of the cervicomedullary junction may be compromised by a narrow corridor in which surgery is performed, and thus the adequacy of surgical decompression/resection may be difficult to determine. This is problematic as the presence of spinal instrumentation may obscure the accuracy of postoperative radiological assessment, or the patient may require reoperation. The authors describe three patients in whom high-field intraoperative magnetic resonance (MR) images were acquired at various stages during the transoral resection of C-2 disease that had caused craniocervical junction compression. All three patients harbored different lesions involving the cervicomedullary junction: one each of plasmacytoma and metastatic breast carcinoma involving the odontoid process and C-2 vertebral body, and basilar invagination with a Chiari I malformation. All patients presented with progressive myelopathy. Surgical planning MR imaging studies performed after the induction of anesthesia demonstrated the lesion and its relationship to the planned surgical corridor. Transoral exposure was achieved through placement of a Crockard retractor system. In one case the soft palate was divided. Interdissection MR imaging revealed that adequate decompression had been achieved in all cases. The two patients with carcinoma required placement of posterior instrumentation for stabilization. Planned suboccipital decompression and placement of instrumentation were averted in the third case as the intraoperative MR images demonstrated that excellent decompression had been achieved. Intraoperatively acquired MR images were instrumental in determining the adequacy of the decompressive surgery. In one of the three cases, examination of the images led the authors to change the planned surgical procedure. Importantly, the acquisition of intraoperative MR images did not adversely affect operating time or neurosurgical techniques, including instrumentation requirements.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) produces abnormal pain syndromes in patients that lead to changes in evoked and spontaneous behaviors. To test if a spontaneous component of pain-like behavior could be measured in a rodent model of chronic central pain (CCP), exploratory behavior (rearing events, rearing time, active time, rest time, distance traveled, and total activity) of adult male rats, subjected to sham surgery or spinal cord contusion injury treated with either vehicle (saline) or gabapentin (30 mg/kg, i.p.), was recorded. SCI was produced at spinal segment T10 using the NYU impactor device (10-g rod, 2.0-mm diameter, 12.5-mm drop height). Activity measures were collected on postsurgical days (PSD) 14, 28, and 60, and compared to presurgical activity. Sham control activity was not significantly different compared to presurgical activity in any measured parameter. SCI vehicle-treated rats demonstrated a significant decrease in total rearing time on PSD 14 and by PSD 28 significant differences in total activities where seen in all parameters measured. SCI gabapentin-treated rats did not display differences in total rearing time until PSD 28 and a significant difference in total activity of all measured parameters was not seen until PSD 60. No difference in hindlimb locomotor ability between SCI groups or sedation effects of gabapentin was found using open field BBB scores. We interpret the differences in exploratory behavior to reflect spontaneous behavioral changes due to CCP since (1) when locomotor ability was greatest, activity was lowest and (2) gabapentin attenuates the temporal decrease in activity. This study demonstrates that spontaneous as well as evoked behaviors may be used to evaluate CCP following SCI.
We have studied the influence of pH on opening of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore (PTP) in both deenergized and energized mitochondria in the presence of Pi. In deenergized mitochondria from rat brain and heart, we observed the expected inhibition of Ca2+-induced PTP opening at increasingly acidic pH values. Unexpectedly, mitochondria energized with either electron transport complex I or complex II substrates displayed the opposite behavior, acidic pH promoting rather than inhibiting PTP opening. We show that the potentiating effect of acidic pH is due to an increased rate of Pi uptake. The data also revealed that brain mitochondria are more heterogeneous than heart or liver mitochondria in relation to onset of a permeability transition, and that this heterogeneity depends on their Pi transport capacity. Taken together, these results indicate that the inhibitory effects of acidic pH on the PTP may be overcome in situ by an increased rate of Pi uptake, and that ischemic and postischemic acidosis may worsen rather than relieve PTP-dependent tissue damage.
Feline astrocytes were productively infected with the Crandell feline kidney (CrFK) cell-adapted feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV) Petaluma strain in a primary culture. They expressed mRNA of CXCR4, and the FIV infection was blocked by stromal cell-derived factor 1alpha (SDF-1alpha), SDF-1beta, or the bicyclam AMD3100 in a dose-dependent manner. These observations suggest that, like FIV infection in CrFK cells and lymphocytes, the virus uses CXCR4 as a primary receptor for infecting astrocytes and this can be a possible natural model for AIDS dementia complex.
To elucidate the pathogenic mechanisms involved in neurodegeneration in AIDS patients with cognitive deficits, we have examined the toxic effect of the lentivirus lytic peptide 1 (LLP-1) corresponding to the carboxyl terminus of HIV-1 transmembrane glycoprotein gp41 on human neuronal and glial cell lines. LLP-1 induced a significant lactate dehydrogenase (LDH, a marker of cell death) release from these cells in a concentration- and time-dependent manner, while the noncytolytic LLP-1 analog 2 had little effect. Application of LLP-1 to SH-SY5Y, a well-characterized human neuronal cell line, caused the decline of intracellular glutathione (GSH) content that appeared to occur before a significant LDH release. Furthermore, LLP-1 elicited a significant loss of mitochondrial function as measured by mitochondrial transmembrane potential (MTP). Among the reducing agents and antioxidants tested, GSH and a GSH prodrug N-acetylcysteine (NAC) provided protection against LLP-1-induced neuronal cell death, evidently by restoring the intracellular GSH levels and blocking the disruption of mitochondrial integrity. Thus, gp41-derived LLP-1 may be a potential neurotoxic agent capable of causing the intracellular GSH depletion and disturbing the mitochondrial function, possibly contributing to the neurodegenerative cascade as seen in HIV-1-associated dementia. Our data indicate that restoring both GSH concentration and mitochondrial function may hold promise as possible therapeutic strategies for slowing disease progression of dementia in AIDS patients.
Complestatin, a peptide derived from Streptomyces, was found to protect cultured cortical neurons from excitotoxicity induced by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA), alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA), or kainate. This neuroprotective behavior of complestatin was attributed to a blockade of Ca2+ ion entry and accumulation, after the activation of NMDA and AMPA/kainate receptors. Complestatin reversibly interfered with NMDA- and AMPA-mediated excitatory synaptic transmission. Complestatin also protected cortical neurons from prolonged deprivation of oxygen and glucose, more effectively than combined antagonists of NMDA and AMPA/kainate receptors. Neurotoxicity, evolving within 1 to 2 days after continuous exposure to combined NMDA and AMPA/kainate antagonists, was not observed in cortical cell cultures that were exposed to complestatin. Finally, complestatin dose dependently prevented neuronal death evolving within the inner nuclear and ganglion cell layers, after transient retinal ischemia. We conclude that complestatin possesses novel pharmacological properties that effectively prevent excitotoxicity under certain pathological conditions.
The modulation of Kv1.4 K+ channels by the neuroprotective agent riluzole was studied in bovine adrenal zona fasciculata cells by using whole-cell patch clamp. At concentrations ranging from 1 to 100 microM, riluzole reversibly inhibited Kv1.4 channels (IC50 = 70 microM) and irreversibly slowed Kv1.4 inactivation. Riluzole (100 microM) increased the inactivation time constant (tau(i)) from a control value of 28.9 +/- 3.9 to 623 +/- 47.6 ms (n = 13). The slowing of bKv1.4 inactivation was not affected by substituting poorly hydrolyzable nucleotides for ATP in the pipette solution, or by the addition of cAMP. Riluzole-induced slowing of bKv1.4 inactivation was nearly eliminated by the presence of the antioxidant reduced glutathione (3 mM) or dithiothreitol (3-5 mM) in the recording pipette, or when cells were superfused with riluzole at a holding potential of -40 mV rather than -80 mV. These results are consistent with a model in which riluzole inhibits bKv1.4 currents and slows inactivation by separate mechanisms. Slowing of inactivation is independent of protein kinases, but probably involves oxidation of a cysteine in the N-terminal inactivation domain. Failure of riluzole to slow inactivation when applied to a depolarized cell suggests that this cysteine is protected in an inactivated Kv1.4 channel. The neuroprotective action of riluzole involves inhibition of glutamate release from presynaptic terminals within the central nervous system. Kv1.4 K+ channels are distributed throughout the brain in axons and nerve terminals, including those from which glutamate is released. The pronounced slowing of Kv1.4 inactivation by riluzole in these neurons could be an important mechanism underlying the inhibition of glutamate release and the therapeutic actions of this drug.
The heptadecapeptide nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) is reported to be metabolized by aminopeptidase N and endopeptidase 24.15. In the present study, N/OFQ C-terminal fragments elicited nociceptive responses in the peripheral nociceptors and in the spinal cord, whereas N-terminal fragments had no significant nociception. The nociceptive effect of N/OFQ (13-17) was most potent and remained unchanged in N/OFQ peptide receptor (NOPR) gene knockout mice, indicating that N/OFQ (13-17)-induced nociception is mediated through a novel mechanism independent of the activation of NOPR. This finding was further confirmed by in vitro guanosine 5'-O-(3-[35S]thio)triphosphate binding experiments, in which N/OFQ (13-17) showed no significant binding activity in baculovirus/sf21 cells expressing NOPR together with G protein alpha(i)1-, beta1-, and gamma2-subunits, whereas N/OFQ showed stimulation in a concentration-dependent manner. On the other hand, although a typical bell-shaped dose-response relationship was observed with a wide range of N/OFQ doses in both peripheral and central nociception tests, N/OFQ (13-17) did not show bell-shaped dose-response relationship in the central nociception test. This finding indicates that N/OFQ (13-17), in contrast to N/OFQ, lacks the postsynaptic antinociceptive actions modulating substance P signaling in the spinal cord. Together, our results suggest that C-terminal fragments of N/OFQ have potent nociceptive actions, and N/OFQ (13-17) could have the potential to mediate its actions through a novel mechanism independent of the activation of NOPR in the nociceptors and in spinal synapses.
We have investigated the activity of naturally occurring high-performance liquid chromatography-purified diadenosine polyphosphates (Ap(n)A, n = 5-6), adenosine polyphospho guanosines (Ap(n)G, n = 5-6), and diguanosine polyphosphates (Gp(n)G, n = 5-6) under voltage-clamp conditions at recombinant rat P2X1-4 purinoceptor subtypes expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes. At rP2X1 and rP2X3 receptors, Ap(n)As and Ap(n)Gs evoked concentration-dependent inward currents. Gp(n)Gs were not active at these receptors. At rP2X2 and rP2X4 receptors, dinucleotides did not show significant activity. For the rP2X1 receptor, Ap(n)As and Ap(n)Gs were partial agonists; for the P2X3 receptor, only Ap5G was full agonist, whereas the other tested substances were partial agonists. The rank order of potency at rP2X1 was ATP &gt; or = Ap6A &gt; or = Ap5A &gt; or = Ap6G &gt; or = Ap5G, and rank order of efficacy was ATP &gt; or = Ap5A &gt; or = Ap6A &gt; Ap5G &gt; Ap6G, whereas at rP2X3 the rank order of potency was ATP &gt; Ap5G &gt; or = Ap5A &gt; or = Ap6A &gt; or = Ap6G and the rank order of efficacy was ATP approximately Ap5G &gt; or = Ap5A approximately Ap6A &gt; or = Ap6G. For rP2X1 and rP2X3 it is evident that receptor agonism depended on the presence of at least one adenine moiety in the dinucleotide, while the presence of a guanine moiety had a significant impact and decreased agonist efficacy. The data suggest that naturally occurring Ap(n)As and Ap(n)Gs may play an important physiological role in different human tissues and systems by activating group I P2X receptors.
Metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptors, which include mGlu1-8 receptors, are a heterogeneous family of G-protein-coupled receptors which function to modulate brain excitability via presynaptic, postsynaptic and glial mechanisms. Certain members of this receptor family have been shown to function as presynaptic regulatory mechanisms to control release of neurotransmitters. In general, Gi-coupled mGlu receptor subtypes appear to negatively modulate excitatory (and possibly also inhibitory) neurotransmitter output when activated. Localization studies have shown that mGlu7 is restricted to the presynaptic grid at the site of vesicle fusion. These studies along with other evidence suggest that mGlu7 is the nerve terminal autoreceptor that regulates physiological release of glutamate. Other mGlu subtypes, in particular mGlu2, mGlu8, and possibly mGlu4, are also localized presynaptically, but at perisynaptic sites outside the active zone of neurotransmitter release. Gi-coupled mGlu receptors also may exist on presynaptic elements of neighboring gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) neurons where they play a role in heterosynaptic suppressions of GABA release. This suggests that these receptors may have evolved to monitor glutamate that has &quot;spilled&quot; out of the synapse. Thus, they may serve as the brain's evolutionary mechanism to prevent pathological changes in neuronal excitability and thus maintain homeostasis. Recent progress on the molecular and pharmacological aspects of these presynaptic mGlu receptors is unveiling their functions and the therapeutic directions of agents designed for these novel glutamate receptor targets.
1. The integration of synaptic inputs to the apical dendrite of layer 5 neocortical pyramidal cells was studied using compartment model simulations. The goal was to characterize the generation of regenerative responses to synaptic inputs under two conditions: (a) where there was an absence of background synaptic input, and (b) when the entire cell surface was subjected to a uniform blanket of synaptic background conductance such that somatic input resistance was reduced 5-fold. 2. Dendritic morphology corresponded to a layer 5 thick-trunked pyramidal cell from rat primary visual cortex at postnatal day 28 (P28), with distribution of dendritic active currents guided by the electrophysiological characteristics of the apical trunk reported in this cell type. Response characteristics for two dendritic channel distributions were compared, one of which supported Ca(2+) spikes in the apical dendrite. 3. In the absence of background, synaptic input to the apical tuft was surprisingly effective in eliciting somatic firing when compared with input to apical oblique branches. This result obtained even when the tuft membrane was the least excitable in the dendritic tree. 4. The special efficacy of tuft input arose because its electrotonic characteristics favour development of a sustained depolarization which charged the apex of the apical trunk to its firing threshold; once initiated in the distal trunk, firing propagated inward to the soma. This mechanism did not depend upon the presence of depolarizing channels in tuft membrane, but did require an excitable apical trunk. 5. Rather than disconnect the tuft, background synaptic conductance enhanced the efficacy advantage enjoyed by input arriving there. This counterintuitive result arose because background reduced the subthreshold spread of voltage, and so diminished the ability of the excitation of various individual oblique branches to combine to charge the relatively thick adjacent trunk. In contrast, drive from the depolarized tuft is exerted at a single critical point, the apex of the distal trunk, and so was relatively undiminished by the background. Further, once initiation at the apex occurred, background had little effect on inward propagation along the trunk. 6. We conclude that synaptic input to the apical tuft of layer 5 cells may be unexpectedly effective in triggering cell firing in vivo. The advantage in efficacy was not dependent upon the characteristics of tuft membrane excitability, but rather stemmed from the geometry of the tuft and its junction with the distal apical trunk. The efficacy of tuft input was, however, critically dependent upon inward propagation, suggesting that modulation of membrane currents which affect propagation in the apical trunk might sensitively control the efficacy of tuft input.
1. In this study we have investigated the action of bradykinin (Bk) on cultured neonatal rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) cells, with the aim of elucidating whether the neuronal response to Bk is influenced by association with non-neuronal satellite cells. 2. Bradykinin (100 nM) evoked an inward current (I(Bk)) in 51 of 58 voltage clamped DRG neurones (holding potential (V(h)) = -80 mV) that were in contact with non-neuronal satellite cells. 3. Bradykinin failed to evoke an inward current in isolated DRG neurones (V(h) = -80 mV) that were not in contact with non-neuronal satellite cells (n = 41). 4. The lack of neuronal response to Bk was not influenced by time in culture. Bradykinin failed to evoke a response in isolated neurones through 1-5 days in culture. By contrast neurones in contact with satellite cells responded to Bk throughout the same time period. 5. Failure of isolated neurones to respond to Bk was not due to the replating procedure or to selective subcellular distribution of receptors/ion channels to the processes rather than the somata of neurones. 6. Using Indo-1 AM microfluorimetry Bk (100 nM) was demonstrated to evoke an intracellular Ca(2+) increase (Ca(Bk)) in DRG neurones in contact with non-neuronal satellite cells and in isolated neurones. 7. These data suggest that the inward current response to Bk requires contact between DRG neurones and non-neuronal satellite cells. This implies an indirect mechanism of action for Bk via the non-neuronal cells, which may perform a nociceptive role. However, Bk can also act directly on the neurones, since it evokes Ca(Bk) in isolated neurones. The relationship between Ca(Bk) and the Bk-induced inward current is unknown at present.
1. The whole-cell configuration of the patch-clamp technique was used to study the modulation of giant depolarizing potentials (GDPs) by nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) in CA3 hippocampal neurons in slices from postnatal day (P) 2-6 rats. 2. Bath application of nicotine increased GDP frequency in a concentration-dependent manner. For example, nicotine (0.5-1 microM) enhanced GDP frequency from 0.05 +/- 0.04 to 0.17 +/- 0.04 Hz. This effect was prevented by the broad-spectrum nicotinic receptor antagonist dihydro-beta-erythtroidine (DHbetaE, 50 microM) and partially antagonized by methyllycaconitine (MLA, 50 nM) a competitive antagonist of alpha7 nAChRs. GDP frequency was also enhanced by AR-17779 (100 microM), a selective agonist of alpha7 nAChRs. 3. The GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline (10 microM) and the non-NMDA glutamate receptor antagonist DNQX (20 microM) blocked GDPs and prevented the effects of nicotine on GDPs. In the presence of DNQX, nicotine increased GABA-mediated synaptic noise, indicating that this drug may have a direct effect on GABAergic interneurons. 4. Bath application of edrophonium (20 microM), a cholinesterase inhibitor, in the presence of atropine (1 microM), increased GDP frequency, indicating that nAChRs can be activated by ACh released from the septo-hippocampal fibres. This effect was prevented by DHbetaE (50 microM). 5. In the majority of neurons tested, MLA (50 nM) and DHbetaE (50 microM) reduced the frequency of GDPs with different efficacy: a reduction of 98 +/- 11 and 61 +/- 29 % was observed with DHbetaE and MLA, respectively. In a subset of cells (40 % in the case of MLA and 17 % in the case of DHbetaE) these drugs induced a twofold increase in GDP frequency. 6. It is suggested that, during development, nAChRs modulate the release of GABA, assessed as GDPs, through distinct nAChRs. The rise of intracellular calcium via nAChRs would further strengthen GABA-mediated oscillatory activity. This can be crucial for consolidation of synaptic contacts and for the fine-tuning of the developing hippocampus.
1. Using a semi-intact epithelial preparation we examined the Ca(2+)-activated K(+) (K(Ca)) currents of frog (Rana pipiens) saccular hair cells. After blocking voltage-dependent K(+) (K(V)) currents with 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) an outward current containing inactivating (I(transient)) and non-inactivating (I(steady)) components remained. 2. The contribution of each varied greatly from cell to cell, with I(transient) contributing from 14 to 90 % of the total outward current. Inactivation of I(transient) was rapid (tau approximately 2-3 ms) and occurred within the physiological range of membrane potentials (V(1/2) = -63 mV). Recovery from inactivation was also rapid (tau approximately 10 ms). 3. Suppression of both I(transient) and I(steady) by depolarizations that approached the Ca(2+) equilibrium potential and by treatments that blocked Ca(2+) influx (application Ca(2+)-free saline or Cd(2+)), suggest both are Ca(2+) dependent. Both were blocked by iberiotoxin, a specific blocker of large-conductance K(Ca) channels (BK), but not by apamin, a specific blocker of small-conductance K(Ca) channels. 4. Ensemble-variance analysis showed that I(transient) and I(steady) flow through two distinct populations of channels, both of which have a large single-channel conductance (~100 pS in non-symmetrical conditions). Together, these data indicate that both I(transient) and I(steady) are carried through BK channels, one of which undergoes rapid inactivation while the other does not. 5. Inactivation of I(transient) could be removed by extracellular papain and could later be restored by intracellular application of the 'ball' domain of the auxiliary subunit (beta2) thought to mediate BK channel inactivation in rat chromaffin cells. We hypothesize that I(transient) results from the association of a similar beta subunit with some of the BK channels and that papain removes inactivation by cleaving extracellular sites required for this association.
There has been an extraordinary recent accumulation of information concerning the neurobiology and neuropharmacology of dopamine (DA) receptors in the mammalian central nervous system. Many new DA molecular entities have been cloned, their gene, peptide sequences and structures have been identified, their anatomical distributions in the mammalian brain described, and their pharmacology characterized. Progress has been made toward developing selective ligands and drug-candidates for different DA receptors. The new discoveries have greatly stimulated preclinical and clinical studies to explore the neuropharmacology of DA receptors and their implications in the neuropathophysiology of different neuropsychiatric diseases including schizophrenia, Parkinson's disease and attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder. Accordingly, it seems timely to review the salient aspects of this specialized area of preclinical neuropharmacology and its relevance to clinical neuropsychiatry.
A case-control family study design, in which the current language-related abilities of all biological, primary relatives (mother, father, siblings) of probands with specific language impairment (SLI) and matched controls were assessed, was used to investigate familial aggregation for language disorders. Current test data from each family member showed the rate of language impairment for mothers, fathers, sisters, and brothers of the SLI probands to be significantly higher than for members of control families. Impairment rates for fathers and mothers were approximately equal, whereas rates for brothers were significantly higher than for sisters. In SLI proband families, Language Impairment (LI) occurred in 13.0% of offspring (excluding proband) with neither parent affected, 40% of offspring with one parent affected, and 71.4% of offspring in families in which both parents were language impaired. Rates of impairment as determined in current testing were compared directly to impairment rates estimated from family-history questionnaires collected from the same families. Group data showed impairment rates estimated from the family-history questionnaires to be similar to the rates based on actual testing. Furthermore, both appeared in line with rates based primarily on questionnaire data as reported previously in the literature. However, case-by-case analyses showed poor intrasubject agreement on classification as language impaired on the basis of current testing as compared to history information.
JCV, a small DNA virus of the polyomavirus family, has been shown to infect glial cells of the central nervous system, hematopoietic progenitor cells, and immune system lymphocytes. A family of DNA binding proteins called nuclear factor-1 (NF-1) has been linked with site-coding specific transcription of cellular and viral genes and replication of some viruses, including JC virus (JCV). It is unclear which NF-1 gene product must be expressed by cells to promote JCV multiplication. Previously, it was shown that elevated levels of NF-1 class D mRNA were expressed by human brain cells that are highly susceptible to JCV infection but not by JCV nonpermissive HeLa cells. Recently, we reported that CD34(+) precursor cells of the KG-1 line, when treated with the phorbol ester phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA), differentiated to cells with macrophage-like characteristics and lost susceptibility to JCV infection. These studies have now been extended by asking whether loss of JCV susceptibility by PMA-treated KG-1 cells is linked with alterations in levels of NF-1 class D expression. Using reverse transcription-PCR, we have found that PMA-treated KG-1 cells express mRNA that codes for all four classes of NF-1 proteins, although different levels of RNA expression were observed in the hematopoietic cells differentiated into macrophages. Northern hybridization confirms that the expression of NF-1 class D gene is lower in JCV nonpermissive PMA-treated KG-1 cells compared with non-PMA-treated cells. Further, using gel mobility shift assays, we were able to show the induction of specific NF-1-DNA complexes in KG-1 cells undergoing PMA treatment. The binding increases in direct relation to the duration of PMA treatment. These results suggest that the binding pattern of NF-1 class members may change in hematopoietic precursor cells, such as KG-1, as they undergo differentiation to macrophage-like cells. Transfection of PMA-treated KG-1 cells with an NF-1 class D expression vector restored the susceptibility of these cells to JCV infection, while the transfection of PMA-treated KG-1 cells with NF-1 class A, B, and C vectors was not able to restore JCV susceptibility. These data collectively suggest that selective expression of NF-1 class D has a regulatory role in JCV multiplication.
Lysophosphatidic acid (LPA, 1-acyl-sn-glycerol-3-phosphate) is a well-known lipid growth factor that is found widely in various tissues including brain and is reported to drive different intracellular signaling pathways. In the nervous system, LPA studies have drawn many neuroscientists' attention because it has some actions related to neurogenesis such as cell rounding and proliferation. Remarkable advances in this field have been obtained along with the discovery of the cDNA clone for its receptor, vzg1/edg2, a member of the seven transmembrane-type edg family. Successive studies have revealed that edg2 activation by LPA mediates several neurobiological actions related to neurogenesis, neuronal excitability and survival activity on developing and postnatal neurons. Here we focused their molecular basis of signaling through G proteins and in vivo roles of edg2 in such neurobiological events.
To reduce image artifacts in diffusion tensor imaging using single shot EPI, cardiac gating may be performed to prevent brain motion induced signal void in the DWI data. In this work the necessity of performing cardiac gating with single shot echo planar imaging has been explored using F statistics of the variance in DWI data. Peripheral measurement of the cardiac cycle has been employed because of its greater convenience, and hence use, compared to ECG gating. Four volunteers have been studied. Six different trigger delays have been evaluated in the range 18-500 ms relative the peripheral pulse wave. Brain motion was found significant in and inferior to the corpus callosum area. A trigger delay of 500 ms was found to be optimal. However, a long delay allows only for one slice per R-R interval. Therefore, a minimum trigger delay may be the best choice in terms of SNR per unit of experiment time.


Hyperthermia produces regression of human cancer. Because hyperthermia has produced only limited results, attention has focused on searching for substances able to sensitize tumour cells to the effects of hyperthermia. The flavonoid quercetin has been reported to be a hyperthermic sensitizer in ovarian and uterine cervical tumours and in leukaemia. Quercetin and tamoxifen inhibit melanoma cell growth. We therefore investigated whether quercetin and tamoxifen can sensitize M10, M14 and MNT1 human melanoma cells to hyperthermia. We observed that both quercetin and tamoxifen synergize with hyperthermia (42.5 degrees C) in reducing the clonogenic activity of M14 and MNT1 and in inducing apoptotic cell death in all three cell lines. As revealed by flow cytometric and Northern blot analyses, quercetin and tamoxifen reduced heat shock protein-70 expression at both protein and mRNA levels. Our results suggest that quercetin and tamoxifen can be usefully combined with hyperthermia in the therapy of recurrent and/or metastatic melanoma.
Observations on naturally occurring gaps in the axonal neurofilament array of cultured neurons have demonstrated that neurofilament polymers move along axons in a rapid, intermittent, and highly asynchronous manner. In contrast, studies on axonal neurofilaments using laser photobleaching have not detected movement. Here, we describe a modified photobleaching strategy that does permit the direct observation of neurofilament movement. Axons of cultured neurons expressing GFP-tagged neurofilament protein were bleached by excitation with the mercury arc lamp of a conventional epifluorescence microscope for 12-60 s. The length of the bleached region ranged from 10 to 60 microm. By bleaching thin axons, which have relatively few neurofilaments, we were able to reduce the fluorescent intensity enough to allow the detection of neurofilaments that moved in from the surrounding unbleached regions. Time-lapse imaging at short intervals revealed rapid, intermittent, and highly asynchronous movement of fluorescent filaments through the bleached regions at peak rates of up to 2.8 microm/s. The kinetics of movement were very similar to our previous observations on neurofilaments moving through naturally occurring gaps, which indicates that the movement was not impaired by the photobleaching process. These results demonstrate that fluorescence photobleaching can be used to study the slow axonal transport of cytoskeletal polymers, but only if the experimental strategy is designed to ensure that rapid asynchronous movements can be detected. This may explain the failure of previous photobleaching studies to reveal the movement of neurofilament proteins and other cytoskeletal proteins in axons.
The rab family of GTP-binding proteins regulates membrane transport between intracellular compartments. The major rab protein in brain, rab3A, associates with synaptic vesicles. However, rab3A was shown to regulate the fusion probability of synaptic vesicles, rather than their transport and docking. We tested whether rab3A has a transport function by analyzing synaptic vesicle distribution and exocytosis in rab3A null-mutant mice. Rab3A deletion did not affect the number of vesicles and their distribution in resting nerve terminals. The secretion response upon a single depolarization was also unaffected. In normal mice, a depolarization pulse in the presence of Ca(2+) induces an accumulation of vesicles close to and docked at the active zone (recruitment). Rab3A deletion completely abolished this activity-dependent recruitment, without affecting the total number of vesicles. Concomitantly, the secretion response in the rab3A-deficient terminals recovered slowly and incompletely after exhaustive stimulation, and the replenishment of docked vesicles after exhaustive stimulation was also impaired in the absence of rab3A. These data indicate that rab3A has a function upstream of vesicle fusion in the activity-dependent transport of synaptic vesicles to and their docking at the active zone.
The FLT3 receptor tyrosine kinase (FLT3) was originally identified on hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) and its ligand (FL) induces HSC proliferation. As stem cells originating from various tissues are more similar than once thought, the goal of this study was to determine whether neural stem cells express FLT3 and proliferate in response to FL. In fact, a subset of neural stem/progenitor cells does express FLT3, but contrary to our expectations, FL inhibited EGF and FGF-2 stimulated proliferation. Since FLT3 is expressed weakly by proliferative neuroepithelia but strongly by subsets of neurons in the CNS and PNS, we tested its ability to support neuronal survival. FL synergized with NGF to promote the survival of cultured DRG neurons, although it lacked any neurotrophic activity alone. We conclude that FL serves as an adjunct trophic factor in the nervous system, which differs from its role in the hematopoietic system.
The aim of this study was the characterization of the intracellular effectors of the antiproliferative activity of somatostatin in PC Cl3 thyroid cells. Somatostatin inhibited PC Cl3 cell proliferation through the activation of a membrane phosphotyrosine phosphatase. Conversely, PC Cl3 cells stably expressing the v-mos oncogene (PC mos) were completely insensitive to the somatostatin antiproliferative effects since somatostatin was unable to stimulate a phosphotyrosine phosphatase activity. In PC mos cells basal phosphotyrosine phosphatase activity was also reduced, suggesting that the expression of a specific phosphotyrosine phosphatase was impaired in these transformed cells. We suggested that this phosphotyrosine phosphatase could be r-PTP eta whose expression was abolished in the PC mos cells. To directly prove the involvement of r-PTP eta in somatostatin's effect, we stably transfected this phosphatase in PC mos cells. This new cell line (PC mos/PTP eta) recovered somatostatin's ability to inhibit cell proliferation, showing dose-dependence and time course similar to those observed in PC Cl3 cells. Conversely, the transfection of a catalytically inactive mutant of r-PTP eta did not restore the antiproliferative effects of somatostatin. PC mos/PTP eta cells showed a high basal phosphotyrosine phosphatase activity which, similarly to PC Cl3 cells, was further increased after somatostatin treatment. The specificity of the role of r-PTP eta in somatostatin receptor signal transduction was demonstrated by measuring its specific activity after somatostatin treatment in an immunocomplex assay. Somatostatin highly increased r-PTP eta activity in PCCl3 and PC mos/PTP eta (+300%, P &lt; 0.01) but not in PCmos cells. Conversely, no differences in somatostatin-stimulated SHP-2 activity, (approximately +50%, P &lt; 0.05), were observed among all the cell lines. The activation of r-PTP eta by somatostatin caused, acting downstream of MAPK kinase, an inhibition of insulin-induced ERK1/2 activation with the subsequent blockade of the phosphorylation, ubiquitination, and proteasome degradation of the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p27(kip1). Ultimately, high levels of p27(kip1) lead to cell proliferation arrest. In conclusion, somatostatin inhibition of PC Cl3 cell proliferation requires the activation of r-PTP eta which, through the inhibition of MAPK activity, causes the stabilization of the cell cycle inhibitor p27(kip1).
Floyd Bloom says that he grew up, surrounded by doctors and pills, in a drug store in Dallas, where his father and uncles were pharmacists. He is a natural storyteller, readily recalling the people and events that have shaped his career. His narrative skills were apparent as early as high school, where he was encouraged, partially on the basis of aptitude tests, to pursue a career in journalism or public relations, and to stay away from hard subjects like math and science. In college, he majored in German literature, although he pursued premedical studies in accordance with his father's wishes. During his medical school and residency experiences in St. Louis, he recounts, he always attempted to carry in his mind an organized way of explaining his academic and clinical activities to the professors and attending physicians that might quiz him. His subsequent research into the central nervous system similarly benefited from his ability not only to anticipate and formulate questions, the answers to which often required the development of new methods, technologies, and alliances, but also to place his findings in novel contexts where they could be conceptually appreciated and utilized. The prospect of telling good scientific stories was one of the factors that later drew Bloom to the position of Editor-in-Chief of Science magazine (1995-2000). While there, he was instrumental in widening the contexts in which the magazine presents science, and in shaping the ways that scientific information is electronically disseminated across the globe. Currently on sabbatical from Scripps, Floyd Bloom continues to explore, as CEO of a startup company in La Jolla, the entrepreneurial contexts in which his own research can be applied.
On magnetic resonance (MR) imaging of the brachial plexus increased signal intensity and swelling of the brachial plexus has been found in chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP). Whether these proximal abnormalities are also present in the distal polyneuropathy associated with monoclonal gammopathy is unknown. Therefore, we performed MR imaging of the brachial plexus in 21 patients with polyneuropathy associated with IgM monoclonal gammopathy (11 IgM with anti-MAG antibodies, 10 IgM without anti-MAG antibodies). For comparison we studied 9 patients with polyneuropathy associated with IgG monoclonal gammopathy and 8 patients with CIDP. Among the 30 patients with monoclonal gammopathy, 24 patients had demyelinating polyneuropathy. Among these 24 patients, there was increased signal intensity of the brachial plexus on the T2-weighted images regardless of whether clinical deficits were generalized or purely distal in location. No association was found with the isotype of the monoclonal gammopathy. Of the 8 patients with CIDP, 5 had brachial plexus abnormalities. None of the 6 patients with axonal polyneuropathy associated with monoclonal gammopathy had such abnormalities. Thus, MR imaging of the brachial plexus shows that the distal demyelinating polyneuropathy associated with monoclonal gammopathy is more generalized than presumed.
Treatment of cocaine addiction is hampered by high rates of relapse even after prolonged drug abstinence. This relapse to compulsive cocaine use can be triggered by re-exposure to cocaine, by re-exposure to stimuli previously associated with cocaine or by exposure to stress. In laboratory rats, similar events reinstate cocaine seeking after prolonged withdrawal periods, thus providing a model to study neuronal mechanisms underlying the relapse to cocaine. The endocannabinoid system has been implicated in a number of neuropsychiatric conditions, including drug addiction. The active ingredient of marijuana, Delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol, activates the mesolimbic dopamine (DA) reward system and has rewarding effects in preclinical models of drug abuse. We report here that the synthetic cannabinoid agonist, HU210 (ref. 13), provokes relapse to cocaine seeking after prolonged withdrawal periods. Furthermore, the selective CB1 receptor antagonist, SR141716A (ref. 14), attenuates relapse induced by re-exposure to cocaine-associated cues or cocaine itself, but not relapse induced by exposure to stress. These data reveal an important role of the cannabinoid system in the neuronal processes underlying relapse to cocaine seeking, and provide a rationale for the use of cannabinoid receptor antagonists for the prevention of relapse to cocaine use.
Neurons in the primary visual cortex are highly selective for stimulus orientation, whereas their thalamic inputs are not. Much controversy has been focused on the mechanism by which cortical orientation selectivity arises. Although an increasing amount of evidence supports a linear model in which orientation selectivity is conferred upon visual cortical cells by the alignment of the receptive fields of their thalamic inputs, the controversy has recently been rekindled with the suggestion that late cortical input--delayed by multiple synapses--could lead to sharpening of orientation selectivity over time. Here we used intracellular recordings in vivo to examine temporal properties of the orientation-selective response to flashed gratings. Bayesian parameter estimation demonstrated that both preferred orientation and tuning width were stable throughout the response to a single stimulus.
Detection of an oriented visual target can be facilitated by collinear visual flankers. Such lateral interactions are thought to reflect integrative processes in low-level vision. In past studies, the flankers were task-irrelevant, and were typically assumed to be unattended. Here we manipulated attention to the flankers directly, by requiring observers to judge the relative alignment of two flankers while ignoring a second flanker-pair. Under identical stimulus conditions, attended flankers produced typical lateral interactions, but ignored flankers did not. These data show that lateral interactions can depend on attention to the flanking context, revealing the functional consequences of attentional modulation in low-level vision.

What are the psychological, computational and neural underpinnings of language? Are these neurocognitive correlates dedicated to language? Do different parts of language depend on distinct neurocognitive systems? Here I address these and other issues that are crucial for our understanding of two fundamental language capacities: the memorization of words in the mental lexicon, and the rule-governed combination of words by the mental grammar. According to the declarative/procedural model, the mental lexicon depends on declarative memory and is rooted in the temporal lobe, whereas the mental grammar involves procedural memory and is rooted in the frontal cortex and basal ganglia. I argue that the declarative/procedural model provides a new framework for the study of lexicon and grammar.
People take addictive drugs to elevate mood, but with repeated use these drugs produce serious unwanted effects, which can include tolerance to some drug effects, sensitization to others, and an adapted state - dependence - which sets the stage for withdrawal symptoms when drug use stops. The most serious consequence of repetitive drug taking, however, is addiction: a persistent state in which compulsive drug use escapes control, even when serious negative consequences ensue. Addiction is characterized by a long-lasting risk of relapse, which is often initiated by exposure to drug-related cues. Substantial progress has been made in understanding the molecular and cellular mechanisms of tolerance, dependence and withdrawal, but as yet we understand little of the neural substrates of compulsive drug use and its remarkable persistence. Here we review evidence for the possibility that compulsion and its persistence are based on a pathological usurpation of molecular mechanisms that are normally involved in memory.

To investigate whether the observed association of intracellular neuronal calcium sensor (NCS) proteins with amyloid plaques and neurofibrillar tangles in Alzheimer brains is linked to a possible neuroprotective or neurotoxic activity of the protein, we performed cytotoxicity tests in PC12 cells transfected with the calcium sensor protein VILIP-1 (visinin-like protein) and the calcium buffer protein calbindin-D28K. Whereas VILIP-1 expression enhanced the neurotoxic effect of ionomycin already at low ionophore concentrations, calbindin-D28K protected against ionomycin-induced cytotoxicity only at high ionomycin and therefore calcium concentrations. However, in double-transfected cells calbindin-D28K rescued VILIP-1-mediated cytotoxicity at low ionomycin concentrations. Since VILIP-1 was found to be associated with fibrillar tangles in Alzheimer brains, we tested whether VILIP-1 has an influence on tau hyperphosphorylation. VILIP-1 expression enhanced hyperphosphorylation of tau protein compared to nontransfected or calbindin-D28K-transfected cells. These results raise the possibility that the observed reduction in VILIP-1-expressing cells may indicate a selective vulnerability of these neurons and that the calcium sensor protein is involved in the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease. The calcium sensor protein may influence tau phosphorylation and have a role in calcium-mediated neurotoxicity opposed to the previously discovered protective effect of calcium buffer proteins.
N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NRs) are a group of ionotropic glutamate receptors in the brain and they are composed of heteromeric subunits (NR1, NR2A-D and NR3). In the neostriatum, a brain region that is associated with movement in animals, NMDA channels are known to involve in the motor control. Our previous report (Lai et al., 2000, Neuroscience 98, 493-500) has shown that a single dose of antisense oligodeoxynucleotides that are specific to NR1 subunit results in blockage of the gene expression of NR1 as well as NR2A subunits in the neostriatum. In the present study, antisense oligodeoxynucleotides that are specific to NR2B (ANR2B) were then employed as molecular tools to further investigate the molecular interactions of NMDA receptor subunits in the neostriatum. A single dose of ANR2B was injected unilaterally into the rat neostriatum. After one day of injection, no modification of motor behavior was found in the ANR2B-injected rats. The mRNA level of NR2B in the ANR2B-injected neostriatum was found to be decreased (-20.4%) by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). However, the mRNA levels of NR1, NR2A, NR2C and NR2D in the ANR2B-treated neostriatum were found to be unchanged. After two days of injection, NR2B immunoreactivity was found to decrease in the ANR2B-treated neostriatum by immunofluorescence (-35.1%). At higher magnification, NR2B immunoreactivity was found to decrease in presumed spiny neurons of the neostriatum (-23.4%). No change in NR1 immunoreactivity was observed. These results indicate that a single dose of ANR2B can successfully block the gene expression of NR2B in neurons of the neostriatum and there is less effect on NR1 and other NR2 subunits. The blockage of the gene expression of NR2B is therefore specific and the present results may provide important implications in applications of antisense in research and in clinical therapy of neurological diseases.
Research performed by neurosurgeons has been always linked to the progress of our specialty, and research training is included in the Neurosurgery Residency Programs in developed countries. Since the methodology of research related to the basic knowledge of the nervous system function is becoming increasingly complex, it could be proposed that neurosurgeons can not longer contribute to productive research in neurosciences, and this idea might be easily accepted in certain countries such as Spain, where research training is not contemplated in the Residency Program of Neurosurgery. However, all neurosurgeons academic or not, should exhibit a critical and inquiring mentality which enables them to evaluate scientific information and communicate their own clinical experience to the neurosurgical community. Such a critical capacity can not be acquired by a resident trained only in the art of clinical diagnosis and the surgical technique. The new medical practice is based on both basic and clinical-epidemiological research, and the new residents must be immersed into a motivating and inquisitive environment in which the scientific method is continuously applied to the clinical practice. In this paper I consider research training in Neurosurgery in developed countries with the aim of identifying a strategy for introducing a period devoted to research in the Spanish Residency Program. Thus, the methodologies, objectives, contents, duration and the moment for receiving research training in other countries are analysed and some alternatives for solving the problem in our country are pointed out.
It is not a trivial matter to think about the topic of training neurosurgeons in Spain. To raise the question, I review the requirements in several countries. I comment on the process of selection, the length of training, the control of quality in the training program and the opportunities for clinical research in hospitals and in basic neurosciences. I express my opinion against a compulsory final exam. I propose that residents should inform the local or regional Health and Education Authorities about the dedication of staff members to training of postgraduate doctors and that this report should be taken into account and compensated economically in a proportional way to their efforts.
We investigated and quantified the spontaneous patterns of motility in the isolated guinea-pig proximal and distal colon taken from adult animals. During spontaneous emptying, profiles of proximal and distal colon were recorded with a video camera, and image analysis was used to construct spatio-temporal maps of the motions of the intestinal wall. Four patterns of motility were recorded. In the proximal colon there were neurally mediated contractions that propagated in the aboral direction at 4.1 mm s(-1), gently pushing the soft contents aborally; these are likely to represent spontaneous peristaltic behaviour. A second pattern, insensitive to tetrodotoxin (TTX; 0.6 microM), consisted, in both oral and aboral propagation, of shallow contractions of the circular muscle (ripples). These contractions propagated aborally at 2.8 +/- 0.45 mm s(-1) and orally at 2.03 +/- 0.31 mm s(-1) (n=10). Of these TTX-resistant contractions, 22.5% propagated both orally and aborally from a common origin. The orally propagated component of these myogenic contractions is likely to correspond to the antiperistalsis widely described in the proximal colon. In the distal colon, two patterns of motor activity were observed. One, induced by natural or artificial pellets, consisted of peristaltic contractions that pushed the pellets aborally at 0.8 mm s(-1) and expelled a pellet every 108 s. In the interval between pellet propulsion and after the distal colon had emptied all of its pellets a second, nerve-mediated pattern of motor activity, consisting of clusters of annular circular muscle contractions separated by short dilated regions, slowly propagated aborally at 0.3 mm s(-1). Both of these motor patterns were abolished by TTX (0.6 microM). A latex balloon, inserted at the oral end of the empty isolated distal colon and inflated to a size similar to faecal pellets, was propelled at 1.4 mm s(-1). Epoxy resin-covered natural pellets were propelled at a similar speed of 1.6 mm s(-1). Our data revealed that myogenic and neurogenic patterns of propagated contractions in the colon occur in isolated preparations and are involved in emptying the colon.
The D2 dopamine receptor density ranges from 0.2 to 40 nM among human brain regions. For high density regions radioligands like [(11)C]raclopride provide accurate and reliable estimates of the receptor density. In research on neuropsychiatric disorders there is, however, a growing need for quantitative approaches that accurately measure D2 dopamine receptor occupancy induced by drugs or endogenous dopamine in regions with low receptor density. The new high affinity radioligands [(11)C]FLB 457 and [(123)I]epidepride have been shown to provide a signal for extrasriatal D2 dopamine receptor populations in the human brain in vivo. Initial observations indicate, however, that the time required to reach equilibrium is dependent on receptor density. Ratio analyses may thus not be readily used for comparisons among different brain regions. The aim of the present simulation study was to examine commonly used approaches for calculation of drug induced D2 dopamine receptor occupancy among regions with widely different receptor density. The input functions and the rate constants of [(11)C]FLB 457 and the reference ligand [(11)C]raclopride were first used in a simulation estimating the effect of receptor density on equilibrium time. In a second step we examined how errors produced by inaccurate determination of the binding potential parameter propagate to calculations of drug induced receptor occupancy. The simulations showed a marked effect of receptor density on equilibrium time for [(11)C]FLB 457, but not for [(11)C]raclopride. For [(11)C]FLB 457, a receptor density above about 7 nM caused the time of equilibrium to fall beyond time of data acquisition (1 h). The use of preequilibrium data caused the peak equilibrium and the end time ratio approaches but not the simplified reference tissue model (SRTM) approach to underestimate the binding potential and thus also the drug occupancy calculated for high-density regions. The study supports the use of ratio and SRTM analyses in extrastriatal low-density receptor regions for which the high affinity ligand [(11)C]FLB 457 was developed. However, in high-density regions such as the human striatum simple ratio approaches cannot be validly applied, whereas the SRTM approach has higher potential to provide valid estimates. Interestingly, the results suggest that published data on a proposed extrastriatal selectivity for the antipsychotic drugs clozapine and olanzapine may be due to erroneous estimations of the binding potential when using ratio approaches.
Basilar artery occlusion is usually associated with a poor prognosis. Nevertheless, intra-arterial thrombolysis has been shown to improve clinical outcome in selected cases. We report the case of a 29-year-old patient who suffered a severe ischemic stroke due to basilar artery occlusion and who was treated with intra-arterial thrombolysis within 3 h of symptoms onset; treatment was followed by an almost full functional recovery. The young age of the patient, short segment occlusion in the middle tract of the artery, good collateral supply, and early recanalization may account for the favorable prognosis.
Previous studies have demonstrated the presence of ubiquitin-immunoreactivity (Ub-IR) as inclusions and skeins in motor neurones of both the familial and sporadic forms of motor neurone disease (MND). There is evidence that interneurones also degenerate in MND, but Ub-IR in ventral horn spinal interneurones has not been studied previously. Here, Ub-IR was investigated in 1445 presumed interneurones and 1086 presumed motor neurones counted in three random 20-microm sections of the ventral horn of the third lumbar segment of the spinal cord of each of seven controls and seven patients with MND. The ventral horn was divided into four quadrants; the dorsomedial quadrant contains almost exclusively interneurones and the ventrolateral quadrant largely motor neurones. The neurones were also classified by morphological and size criteria into presumed interneurones (&lt; 25 microm) and presumed motor neurones (&gt;or= 25 microm). Ub-IR was classified as inclusions, skeins and dispersed cytoplasmic and nuclear staining. Ub-IR inclusions or skeins were not observed in the controls but 6.6% of neurones (motor neurones and interneurones) showed the presence of dispersed cytoplasm staining and nuclear staining. The incidence of Ub-IR cytoplasmic and nuclear staining was significantly greater in both motor neurones and interneurones of MND patients than controls. Ub-IR was less frequent in MND cases in which a great loss of neurones was observed. Ub-IR was significantly more frequent in motor neurones than interneurones, both in patients and controls. Ub-IR inclusions and skeins were only observed in motor neurones from MND patients. Ub-IR inclusions were not observed in presumed spinal interneurones, while skeins were only seen in three out of 565 of these cells (two of them in the dorsomedial quadrant) in two out of seven patients. Thus, although presumed spinal interneurones occasionally revealed Ub-IR features similar to motor neurones, the rare staining of Ub-IR skeins and the lack of Ub-IR inclusions in interneurones in MND suggests that these neurones only occasionally form ubiquitin-protein conjugates. Neuronal size, rather than type, may be important in determining whether ubiquitin-protein conjugates form in the ventral horn neurones in MND.
In contrast to extensive determinations of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) in neural tissues, calcitonin and its carboxyl-terminal flanking peptide katacalcin (in human PDN-21) have not been systematically measured by radioimmunoassay (RIA) in discrete brain structures. Using microwave irradiation (MW), a procedure that increases the recovery of neuropeptides, we investigated by radioimmunoassay (RIA) the rat brain regional distribution of CGRP like- immunoreactivity (-LI), calcitonin-LI, and katacalcin-LI. Calcitonin-LI and katacalcin-LI were found in low concentrations in frontal cortex, occipital cortex, striatum and hippocampus. Moreover, a 4-week treatment with antipsychotic drugs altered the concentrations of the calcitonin-gene family peptides in the frontal cortex, occipital cortex, and hippocampus; the magnitude of these changes, however, was only moderate. Lastly, calcitonin-LI and katacalcin-LI baseline concentrations as well as after antipsychotic treatment were highly correlated in the frontal cortex, striatum, and hippocampus. The possible regulatory role of calcitonin gene family peptides in the central nervous system (CNS) needs to be further explored.
A common feature of many synapses is their regulation by neurotransmitters other than those released from the presynaptic terminal. This aspect of synaptic transmission is often mediated by activation of G protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) and has been most extensively studied at amino acid-mediated synapses where ligand gated receptors mediate the postsynaptic signal. Here we have investigated how opioid receptors modulate synaptic transmission mediated by muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (mAChRs) in hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurones. Using a cocktail of glutamate and gamma-amino-butyric acid (GABA) receptor antagonists a slow pirenzepine-sensitive excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP(M)) that was associated with a small increase in cell input resistance could be evoked in isolation. This response was enhanced by the acetylcholine (ACh) esterase inhibitor physostigmine (1 microM) and depressed by the vesicular ACh transport inhibitor vesamicol (50 microM). The mu-opioid receptor agonists DAMGO (1-5 microM) and etonitazene (100 nM), but not the delta- and kappa-opioid receptor selective agonists DTLET (1 microM) and U-50488 (1 microM), potentiated this EPSP(M) (up to 327%) without affecting cell membrane potential or input resistance; an effect that was totally reversed by naloxone (5 microM). In contrast, postsynaptic depolarizations and increases in cell input resistance evoked by carbachol (3 microM) were unaffected by DAMGO (1-5 microM) but were abolished by atropine (1 microM). Taken together these data provide good evidence for a mu-opioid receptor-mediated presynaptic enhancement of mAChR-mediated EPSPs in hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurones.
The clinical utility of current face recognition tests has been questioned. To evaluate if a new paradigm may measure this type of memory more accurately, the authors created a novel test to examine face learning (previously uninvestigated) and short- and long-term retention. For this initial investigation of test sensitivity to hemisphere of dysfunction, patients with surgical resection from a temporal lobe and healthy subjects were tested. Recognition was evaluated on 3 trials: after a single exposure, after 4 exposures (for learning), and after a 24-hr delay interval. Patients with a right resection performed significantly worse than healthy controls and patients with left resection. There was no difference between patients with a left resection and controls. Classification of individual patients to side of resection based on test results showed higher sensitivity (82%) than published for other tests and maintained good specificity (79%).
The present study investigated methodological differences between the clinical version of the Stroop Color and Word Test and the computerized single-trial version. Three experiments show that different presentations of the Stroop task can produce different levels of interference. The 1st experiment examined the effect of blocking; the 2nd experiment examined different control conditions. Greater interference in the blocked clinical version appears to result from lower response times (RTs) in the neutral condition, not from greater RTs in the incongruent condition. Experiment 3 examined the impact of shifting attention across locations while responding to Stroop stimuli. The present set of findings sheds light on the inconsistency in the clinical literature and demonstrates that the method and selection of neutral stimuli (that provide the baseline by which interference is measured) are critical because they clearly can change performance.
Anxiety may play an important role in the onset of smoking, particularly in young girls. This study examined whether there were sex differences in the effects of nicotine on anxiety in adolescent rats and whether social isolation modified these effects. Male and female adolescent rats were housed in groups of the same sex or in social isolation for seven days prior to testing in the social interaction test of anxiety. Nicotine increased social interaction in both males and females, and because there was no concomitant change in locomotor activity, this indicated anxiolytic effects. However, there was a 5-fold sex difference in the lowest dose required to enhance social interaction, with an anxiolytic effect in females at 0.05 mg/kg, but in males only at 0.25mg/kg. Furthermore, in males the anxiolytic effect was seen only in socially isolated animals, whereas in the females it was present in both housing conditions. The depressant effect of nicotine on locomotor activity also depended on both the sex of the animal and on their housing conditions, with greater effects in singly housed animals and in males. This sex difference in sensitivity to nicotine's anxiolytic effects suggests there may be sex differences in the factors initiating and maintaining teenage smoking.
Little is known about acetylcholine (ACh) modulation of central visual processing in humans. Receptor densities in visual brain regions are differentially distributed suggesting that receptor subtypes have different functions. Using PET, we have previously described the brain regions activated by a simple pattern-flash stimulus in healthy elderly subjects. To evaluate muscarinic and nicotinic contributions to ACh modulation of visual processing, we scanned elderly subjects watching the pattern-flash stimulus during no drug, during physostigmine augmentation, and during scopolamine antagonism of physostigmine's action. These manipulations of ACh significantly altered regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in brain regions activated by the task. The pattern of rCBF values across drug conditions suggested that muscarinic and nicotinic effects were dissociated. Muscarinic action predominated in striate cortex (Brodmann Area, BA 17) and lateral visual association areas (BA 18, 19), while nicotinic action predominated in the thalamus and inferior parietal regions (BA 39/40). Both muscarinic and nicotinic actions increased rCBF in some regions while decreasing it in others. A parsimonious reconciliation of these results with functional anatomy suggests that muscarinic action modulates visual attribute processing, while nicotinic action modulates arousal and selective attention to the visual task.
Muscle rigidity associated with antipsychotic drug treatment is believed to result from reduced striatal dopamine neurotransmission. In the current study the regulatory roles of dopamine D1 and D2 receptor subfamilies in the dorsal (DSTR) and ventral striatum (VSTR) and substantia nigra (SN) were investigated on muscle tone, assessed as increases in tonic electromyographic (EMG) activity. Rats were injected with the irreversible D1/D2 antagonist N-ethoxycarbonyl-2-ethoxy, -1,2-dihydroquinoline (EEDQ), the reversible D1 antagonist SCH23390, or D2 antagonist sulpiride. Increased EMG activity was observed following injection of EEDQ and SCH23390 into the SN or VSTR, and sulpiride into the VSTR. Mapping, using quantitative autoradiographic analysis of dopamine receptor occupancy after striatal injections, showed D1 and D2 receptors in discrete ventral sites were associated with EMG increases. Overall the results support roles for dopamine D1 and D2 receptors in the ventral striatum, and D1 receptors in the substantia nigra, in the regulation of muscle tone.
The extrapyramidal side effects of typical antipsychotics, which are induced to a markedly reduced extent by clozapine, have been linked to a dysfunction of central gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-mediated neurotransmission. The effects of clozapine on the brain concentrations of 3alpha-hydroxy-5alpha-pregnan-20-one (allopregnanolone, AP) and 3alpha,21-dihydroxy-5alpha-pregnan-20-one (allotetrahydrodeoxycorticosterone, THDOC), two potent and endogenous positive allosteric modulators of GABA-mediated chloride current intensities at GABA(A) receptors, were compared with those of the typical antipsychotic haloperidol. A single administration of clozapine (1.25-20 mg/kg, IP), but not of haloperidol (0.1 or 0.5 mg/kg, IP), induced dose- and time-dependent increases in the concentrations of progesterone, AP, and THDOC in the cerebral cortex and striatum of rats. Clozapine (at 10 mg/kg, but not at lower doses) also increased the concentrations of these steroids as well as that of corticosterone in plasma in intact rats, but failed to increase the cortical concentrations of AP and THDOC in adrenalectomized-orchidectomized rats. An acute challenge with clozapine (10 mg/kg), administered 48 h after the termination of daily treatment with the same dose for 19 days, still increased the cortical concentrations of progesterone, AP, and THDOC. These results suggest that the clozapine-induced increases in neuroactive steroid concentrations in the brain may contribute to the atypical pharmacological profile of this antipsychotic drug.
Percutaneous transluminal carotid angioplasty and stenting (PTAS) can result in immediate improvement in cerebral blood flow (CBF) evident through faster transit of contrast medium on angiography. To evaluate frequency and predictors of changes in inflow of contrast medium before and after PTAS, we reviewed 86 patients (mean age 68.6 +/- 9.1 years) treated for symptomatic or asymptomatic carotid stenosis. Clinical data and lesion characteristics were extracted from charts and digital angiograms, respectively. Perfusion change was assessed qualitatively by comparing pre- and poststenting images matched for projection and time from injection. Improved inflow was defined on the basis of spatial or temporal distribution of contrast medium: grade -1: fewer vessels visible after stenting; 0: no change; 1: more distal small arteries visible; 2: time-matched poststenting image showing a capillary blush; 3: time-matched poststenting image showing small veins, 4 time-matched poststenting image showing large veins and sinuses. Faster inflow of contrast medium was observed in 74% of patients (grades 1: 34%,and 4: 4.7%). In linear regression analysis, higher degrees of ipsilateral stenosis were associated with greater changes in inflow of contrast medium (P &lt; 0.05). Right internal carotid lesions were associated with greater change in inflow than left-sided lesions (P &lt; 0.01). In 31 patients (36%) we initially showed contralateral anterior cerebral artery (ACA) filling, and in 39% of these, normal filling was restored after stenting. Lesser contralateral carotid stenosis was associated with crossed ACA filling and with restoration of normal filling pattern after stenting. Faster appearance of a contrast-medium blush is seen in most cases of carotid angioplasty and stenting and depends on the degree of hemodynamic inflow obstruction relieved by stenting.
Lissencephaly or agyria is a prototype of disorders of neuronal migration, a rare type of hereditary malformation of the brain, which manifests with smooth cerebral surface, poorly defined sylvian fissures with thickened cerebral cortical mantle. A case of an infant with isolated variety is presented highlighting some of the major associated clinical features, which include profound intellectual impairment, seizures and hypotonia that later evolves to spasticity in the 2nd year of life. Morbidity is usually high and mortality is dependent on associated deficits.








Harvey Cushing revolutionized modern neurosurgery and pioneered the field of neuroendocrinology. This second of a two-part series on Harvey Cushing's contributions to neuroscience discusses his pivotal discoveries of the function and clinical disorders of the anterior pituitary. A review of his 20-year obsession with the pituitary reveals Cushing's ingenuity, keen sense of observation, and persistent stubborness. His enthusiasm to test his ideas, however, led to risky experimentation. Despite his foibles, his work opened up new frontiers of research for a number of investigators, whose efforts resulted in the identification of specific pituitary hormones, the hypothalamic regulation of the pituitary, and the practical applications of endocrinology.
Humans are social animals who use specialized brain mechanisms to assess the actions of others. This system for social cognition can be studied by imaging techniques, and its damage can lead to inappropriate social and moral behavior. Neuroscience can thus enrich our understanding of behaviors traditionally thought to be outside the province of science.
This article presents a brief history of normal-pressure hydrocephalus, its clinical presentation, and different theories on its pathophysiology. The different diagnostic tests, differential diagnosis, and its treatment are presented.
A major mechanism guiding neural development is through cell-cell and cell-matrix adhesions and signaling mediated by cell adhesion molecules (CAMs). The majority of CAMs have been grouped into three families: the cadherins, the integrins and the members of the immunoglobulin superfamily including L1. While the elucidation of new receptors and matrix components has become a frequent occurrence, the elucidation of the mechanisms by which they operate, and the function of those mechanisms in complex developmental events remains rudimentary. Members of all three families participate in differential adhesion, signal transduction and physical/mechanical effects. Each of these modes of action is a potential target for developmental neurotoxicants. In this brief review, the role of L1 in normal and abnormal neurodevelopment will be summarized. L1 is a cell surface transmembrane glycoprotein with a single copy gene on the X chromosome. There are two alternatively spliced exons, with the RSLE containing form found only on axons and growth cones of post-mitotic neurons. L1 mediates the following functions: adhesion, neurite extension, neuronal migration, and axon fasciculation. L1 is critical for normal neural development; humans with genetic defects in L1, termed corpus callosum hypoplasia, mental retardation, adducted thumbs, spasticity and hydrocephalus (CRASH) syndrome, and mice lacking expression of L1 have extensive neuropathologic and aberrant behaviors. The observation that patients with fetal alcohol syndrome share similar features to patients with CRASH has lead to the investigation of the effects of ethanol on L1. Physiologic concentrations of ethanol have been shown to inhibit L1 mediated neurite outgrowth in cerebellar granule neurons. Such inhibition may result from decreased expression, altered cell surface distribution, impaired signal transduction, or impaired interaction with the cytoskeleton. These data indicate that L1 and its associated signaling pathways are potentially targets for developmental neurotoxicants.
An understanding of microglial functions during normal CNS development is prerequisite for understanding developmental neurotoxicology. This review provides a brief summary of previous work regarding the origin of microglia and addresses differences and similarities between microglia and brain macrophages. Current concepts and ideas which implicate microglia in diverse developmental processes, such as apoptosis, axon growth, and vasculogenesis are discussed. The study of reactive microgliosis may prove useful in the histopathological analysis of neurotoxicant-induced brain damage during development.

Nitric oxide (NO) is believed to be an important messenger molecule in signal transduction pathways that enhance nociceptive transmission in the central nervous system (CNS). The role of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) I and II, which synthesize NO, in central sensitization induced by an intradermal capsaicin injection was investigated. To elucidate whether changes in NOS I and NOS II activities caused by capsaicin injection contribute to behavioral changes, responses to von Frey filaments with two different innocuous bending forces applied on the rat foot were tested. The allodynic responses induced by capsaicin injection in the foot were partially reversed by the administration of either the selective NOS I inhibitor, 7-nitroindazole (7-NINA), or the selective NOS II inhibitor, 2-amino-5,6-dihydro-6-methyl-4H-1,3-thiazine (AMT). To confirm changes at the level of single nociceptive neurons, extracellular recordings were made from rat dorsal horn neurons. The electrophysiological results showed that increased responses to noxious and innocuous stimuli caused by capsaicin injection were blocked by either 7-NINA or AMT delivered through a microdialysis fiber inserted through the dorsal horn. Finally, the expression of both NOS I and NOS II in the spinal cord as demonstrated by Western blots was increased by 20 min following intradermal capsaicin injection in the rat foot. These results suggest that both NOS I and NOS II are upregulated following intradermal capsaicin injection and that both cause NO release that contributes to the secondary hyperalgesia and allodynia following this noxious chemical stimulus.
This study was undertaken to clarify whether seizures in the newborn cause damage to the healthy brain and, more specifically, to determine the extent to which seizures may contribute to the brain-damaging effects of hypoxia-ischemia (HI). Seizures were induced in 10-d-old rat pups with kainic acid (KA). Seizure duration was determined electrographically. HI was induced by common carotid artery ligation followed by exposure to 8% oxygen for either 15 or 30 min. Six groups of animals were assessed: 1) controls [neither KA nor HI (group I)]; 2) group II, KA alone; 3) group III, 15 min HI alone; 4) group IV,15 min HI plus KA; 5) group V, 30 min HI alone; and 6) group VI, 30 min HI plus KA. Animals were assessed neuropathologically at 3 (early) and 20 (late) d of recovery. KA injection without hypoxia resulted in continuous clinical and electrographic seizures lasting a mean of 282 min. No neuropathologic injury was seen in groups I (no HI or KA), II (KA alone), III (15 min HI alone), or IV (15 min HI and KA). Animals in group V (30 min HI alone) displayed brain damage with a mean score of 2.3 and 0.60 at 3 and 20 d of recovery, respectively. Animals in group VI (30 min HI and KA) had a mean score of 12.1 and 3.65 at 3 and 20 d of recovery, respectively. Compared with group V, the increased damage as a result of the seizure activity in group VI occurred exclusively in the hippocampus. Status epilepticus in the otherwise &quot;healthy&quot; neonatal brain does not cause neuropathologic injury. However, seizures superimposed on HI significantly exacerbate brain injury in a topographically specific manner.
Excerpts from French operatic songs were used to evaluate the extent to which language and music compete for processing resources. Do these two dimensions conflict? Are they integrated into a single percept? Or are they independent? The final word of each excerpt was either semantically congruous or incongruous relative to the prior linguistic context and was sung either in or out of key. Participants were asked to detect either the semantic or the melodic incongruity (single task) or both (dual task). We predicted a dual-task deficit if these tasks conflicted and no deficit if they were either independent or integrated. In order to distinguish between these last two outcomes, trial-by-trial contingency analyses were also computed, predicting no correlation if the tasks were conflicting or independent, a positive correlation under the assumption of integration and a negative correlation if dividing attention is impossible. Our results show similar levels of performance in single and dual tasks and no correlation between dual-task judgments, thus suggesting that semantic and melodic aspects of language are processed by independent systems. In addition, a comparison between musicians and nonmusicians shows that these conclusions are independent of musical expertise.
The maintained production of extreme reductions in core temperature (20-22 degrees C) or poikilothermia can be reliably produced by the synergistic interaction of limbic seizures (induced by lithium and pilocarpine), postseizure administration of a single injection of acepromazine, and physical restraint. Administration of the specific and nonspecific dopamine antagonists haloperidol, chlorpromazine, SCH23390, or clozapine did not simulate the effect at clinically effective dosages. Single injections of phentolamine and prazosin but not of propranolol instead of acepromazine following the seizures produced the poikilothermia. This effect was also reproduced by reducing the amount of the rats' adipose weight before the induction of the seizures and physical restraint. Rats that had been restrained or not restrained and displayed either euthermia or hypothermia exhibited significantly different patterns in brain damage within limbic and thalamic structures.
Thousands of soldiers who served in the Gulf War have symptoms that have been collectively termed Gulf War Illness (GWI). It has been suggested that a combination of operational stress and pyridostigmine, a drug given as a pretreatment to protect soldiers against the effects of exposure to nerve agents, might have had unexpected adverse health effects causing these symptoms. Our laboratory has previously modeled operational stress in rats using a paradigm of around-the-clock intermittent signalled footshock. In the present studies, this model was used to investigate the potential synergistic effects of chronic stress and pyridostigmine on physiology and behavior. Seventy-two rats were trained to perform an alternation lever pressing task to earn their entire daily food intake. The rats were then implanted with osmotic minipumps containing vehicle, pyridostigmine (25 mg/ml pyridostigmine bromide) or physostigmine (20 mg/ml eserine hemisulfate). The pumps delivered 1 microl/h, which resulted in a cumulative dosing of approximately 1.5 mg/kg/day of pyridostigmine or 1.2 mg/kg/day of physostigmine, equimolar doses of the two drugs. The rats were then returned to their home cages where performance continued to be measured 24 h/day. After 4 days, 24 of the 72 rats were trained to escape signalled footshock (avoidance-escape group) and 24 other rats (yoked-stressed group) were each paired to a rat in the avoidance-escape group. The remaining 24 rats were not subjected to footshock (unstressed group). Shock trials were intermittently presented in the home cage 24 h/day for 3 days, while alternation performance continued to be measured. Since only 12 test cages were available, each condition was repeated to achieve a final n of six rats per group. Pyridostigmine and physostigmine each decreased blood acetylcholinesterase levels by approximately 50%. Physostigmine also decreased brain cortical acetylcholinesterase levels by approximately 50%, while pyridostigmine had no effect on cortical acetylcholinesterase activity. Alternation performance was impaired on the first day of stress and then recovered. Neither pyridostigmine nor physostigmine affected performance in the absence of stress or increased the effects of stress alone. Corticosterone was significantly increased in the yoked stress group compared to unstressed controls. These data suggest that pyridostigmine does not exacerbate the effects of stress on performance or levels of stress hormones. Furthermore, these data do not suggest that stress enables pyridostigmine to cross the blood brain barrier.
Previous research has indicated that administering corticosterone to dams' drinking water for 21 days produced persistent alterations in physiology and behavior. We investigated whether 4 days of corticosterone exposure would have similar effects, and whether greater effects would be found when corticosterone was administered early in neonatal life than later in neonatal life. Sprague-Dawley dams were given either corticosterone (250 microg/ml) in their water bottles for postnatal days (PND) 5-9 (early corticosterone treatment: ECT), PND 13-17 (late corticosterone treatment: LCT) or no treatment (NT). At the end of treatment, corticosterone levels were higher in pups of corticosterone drinking dams. However, at weaning, ECT and LCT pups had lower basal corticosterone levels than NT pups. As juveniles, ECT pups learned to navigate to a visible and then to a nonvisible platform in a Morris water maze more quickly than did LCT and NT pups. Among females, ECT pups had higher corticosterone release in response to stress than LCT and NT pups. There were no differences in hippocampal corticosteroid receptor levels among the groups. The pattern of results is similar to, but not identical to, that found for pups exposed to corticosterone for 21 days. The results also suggest that there is a critical or sensitive period for corticosterone treatment in that early treatment was more effective than later treatment.
The effects of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) on development and reproduction are well documented. However, very little is known about the effects of PCBs on sexual behavior. In this study, we examined the effects of two commercial PCB mixtures, Aroclor 1221 (A1221) and Aroclor 1254 (A1254), on the development of female sexual behavior and of the incertohypothalamic dopaminergic cells (A11 and A13) in Long-Evans rats. Neonatal exposure to A1254 significantly reduced sexual receptivity and reduced the female's latency to approach a male after an intromission. Neonatal treatment with A1221 did not affect female sexual behavior nor did treatment of adult females with A1221 or A1254. Since sexual behavior is affected by dopamine and since PCBs have been reported to alter dopamine content in the brain, we examined the effects of A1221 or A1254 on dopaminergic cells in the incertohypothalamic region of neonatally exposed rats. None of the treatments significantly affected the number of A11 or A13 neurons that were immunoreactive for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) or the expression of Fos (i.e., the product of the immediate early gene c-fos) in these dopaminergic neurons. Therefore, the disruption of behavior induced by neonatal treatment with A1254 does not appear to be mediated by toxic effects of the mixture on incertohypothalamic dopaminergic systems.
The Arabidopsis thaliana genome sequencing project has revealed that multigene families, such as those generated by genome duplications, are more abundant among plant genomes than among animal genomes. To gain insight into the evolutionary implications of the multigene families in higher plants, we examined the XTH gene family, a group of genes encoding xyloglucan endotransglucosylase/hydrolase, which are responsible for cell-wall construction in plants. Expression analysis of all members (33 genes) of this family, using quantitative real-time RT-PCR, revealed that most members exhibit distinct expression profiles in terms of tissue specificity and responses to hormonal signals, with some members exhibiting similar expression patterns. By comparing the flanking sequences of individual genes, we identified four sets of large-segment duplications and two sets of solitary gene duplications. In each set of gene duplicates, long nucleotide sequences, ranging from one to two hundred base pairs, are conserved. Furthermore, gene duplicates exhibit similar organ-specific expression profiles. These facts allowed us to predict putative cis-regulatory regions, particularly those responsible for cell-wall construction, and hence for morphogenesis, that are specific for certain organs or tissues in plants.

Although there were several premonitory signs of a sleep stage with dreaming, it was only in 1953 that such a stage was identified with certainty. This paper analyses the observations and research related to this dreaming stage (rapid eye movement sleep) until 1964. During these 11 years of research, the main psychological and physiological characteristics of this sleep stage were first described. Where the few results or discussions were later questioned, today's current state of knowledge is briefly outlined.
P2X receptors are a family of ligand-gated ion channels, activated by extracellular ATP. The seven subunits cloned (P2X1-7) can assemble to form homomeric and heteromeric receptors. Peripheral neurons of neural crest origin (e.g. those in dorsal root, trigeminal, sympathetic and enteric ganglia) and placodal origin (e.g. those in nodose and petrosal ganglia) express mRNAs for multiple P2X subunits. In this review, we summarize the molecular biological, electrophysiological and immunohistochemical evidence for P2X receptor subunits in sensory, sympathetic, parasympathetic, pelvic and myenteric neurons and adrenomedullary chromaffin cells. We consider the pharmacological properties of these native P2X receptors and their physiological roles. The responses of peripheral neurons to ATP show considerable heterogeneity between cells in the same ganglia, between ganglia and between species. Nevertheless, these responses can all be accounted for by the presence of P2X2 and P2X3 subunits, giving rise to varying proportions of homomeric and heteromeric receptors. While dorsal root ganglion neurons express predominantly P2X3 and rat sympathetic neurons express mainly P2X2 receptors, nodose and guinea-pig sympathetic neurons express mixed populations of P2X2 and heteromeric P2X2/3 receptors. P2X receptors are important for synaptic transmission in enteric ganglia, although their roles in sympathetic and parasympathetic ganglia are less clear. Their presence on sensory neurons is essential for some processes including detection of filling of the urinary bladder. The regulation of P2X receptor expression in development and in pathological conditions, along with the interactions between purinergic and other signalling systems, may reveal further physiological roles for P2X receptors in autonomic and sensory ganglia.


The serotonin 5-HT(3) receptor is thought to play a role in the reward pathway and drug abuse by modulating dopamine release within the mesolimbic pathway. Dopamine release stimulated by cocaine and methamphetamine is blocked by administration of 5-HT(3) receptor antagonists. Animal studies demonstrate that 5-HT(3) receptor antagonists decrease cocaine and methamphetamine preference. We have developed a 5-HT(3) receptor over-expressing mouse to study the role of this receptor in substance abuse. No changes in either the dopamine receptors (D1, D2, D3, and D4) or in the dopamine transporter (DAT) were found over a wide range of brain regions. 5-HT(3) receptor over-expressing mice failed to develop conditioned place preference to 10 mg/kg or 6 mg/kg cocaine but showed a modest preference for 4 mg/kg cocaine. 5HT(3) receptor over-expressing mice were more sensitive to the locomotor activating effects of low dose cocaine and methamphetamine. Further, brain slices from the transgenic mice release more dopamine in response to low concentrations of cocaine. These data suggest that 5HT(3) receptor over-expression in the forebrain decreases cocaine preference and increases acute sensitivity with a corresponding increase in the amount of dopamine released in response to cocaine.



We review here those malformations of the cerebral cortex which are most often observed in epilepsy patients, for which a genetic basis has been elucidated or is suspected and give indications for genetic testing. There are three forms of lissencephaly (agyria-pachygyria) resulting from mutations of known genes, which can be distinguished because of their distinctive imaging features. They account for about 85% of all lissencephalies. Lissencephaly with posteriorly predominant gyral abnormality is caused by mutations of the LIS1 gene on chromosome 17. Anteriorly predominant lissencephaly in hemizygous males and subcortical band heterotopia (SBH) in heterozygous females are caused by mutations of the XLIS(or DCX) gene. Mutations of the coding region of XLIS were found in all reported pedigrees, and in most sporadic female patients with SBH. Missense mutations of both LIS1 and XLIS genes have been observed in some of the rare male patients with SBH. Autosomal recessive lissencephaly with cerebellar hypoplasia has been associated with mutations of the reelin gene. With few exceptions, children with lissencephaly have severe developmental delay and infantile spasms early in life. Patients with SBH have a mild to severe mental retardation with epilepsy of variable severity and type. X-linked bilateral periventricular nodular heterotopia (BPNH) consists of typical BPNH with focal epilepsy in females and prenatal lethality in males. About 88% of patients have focal epilepsy. Filamin A (FLNA) mutations have been reported in some families and in sporadic patients. Additional, possibly autosomal recessive gene(s) are likely to be involved in causing BPNH non-linked to FLN1. Tuberous sclerosis (TS) is a dominant disorder caused by mutations in at lest two genes, TSC1 and TSC2. 75% of cases are sporadic. Most patients with TS have epilepsy. Infantile spasms are a frequent early manifestation of TS. Schizencephaly (cleft brain) has a wide anatomo-clinical spectrum, including focal epilepsy in most patients. Familial occurrence is rare. Heterozygous mutations in the EMX2 gene have been reported in some patients. However, at present, there is no clear indication on the possible pattern of inheritance and on the practical usefulness that mutation detection in an individual with schizencephaly would carry in terms of genetic counselling. Amongst several syndromes featuring polymicrogyria, bilateral perisylvian polymicrogyria had familial occurrence on several occasions. Genetic heterogeneity is likely, including autosomal recessive, X-linked dominant, X-linked recessive inheritance and association to 22q11.2 deletions. FISH analysis for 22q11.2 is advisable in all patients with perisylvian polymicrogyria. Parents of an affected child with normal karyotype should be given up to a 25% recurrence risk.
Synaptic plasticity in mammalian brain is one of the most widely studied topics in neuroscience over the last decade. Long-term potentiation (LTP), mainly involving post-synaptic mechanisms, is a reflection of neural plasticity. Study on the mechanisms of LTP was formerly focused on the properties of NMDA receptor and the intracellular cascade of reaction after activation of the receptor. However, the definition of &quot;silent synapses&quot; with only NMDA receptors without AMPA receptors was frequently referred in LTP study, showing the importance of AMPA receptor in post-synaptic mechanism of LTP.
Working memory is a set of processes or a system that allows us to temporarily maintain task-relevant information during performance of complex cognitive tasks. It has recently been an intensively investigated topic in cognitive psychology, cognitive neuroscience, and other related disciplines, and important empirical and theoretical advances have been made during the last several years. In this article, we review the current state of working memory research, focusing on important recent methodological and theoretical developments in the field. Specifically, we provide an update of recent influential working memory theories (e.g., Baddeley's multicomponent model and an ACT-R model) and discuss the current status of various controversial theoretical issues, such as the unitary versus non-unitary nature of working memory, the nature of working memory limitations, the control and regulation of working memory, and the relationship of working memory to long-term memory. We conclude our review by pointing out some important future directions for working memory research.
In the 1990s, the 'Decade of the Brain', a number of digital and electronic resources have been created to enable the rationalization and integration of the various sub-fields of neuroscience. This approach has been described as 'neuroinformatics'. An important subset of tools (atlases of the brain) developed in the Human Brain Project is examined in detail in order to understand how the use of these tools changes the practice of science. In the course of the development of atlases, what constitutes 'objective' neuroscientific knowledge is redefined in important ways, according to both technological possibilities built into these tools and to the constraints of standardization inherent in projects that involve multiple measurements. The constitution of objectivity is examined across a number of levels (ontological, epistemic, pragmatic) and the concept of 'digital objectivity' is suggested as a label for a particular configuration of ideals, techniques and objects of knowledge in cyberscience.





A lesion of the dopamine (DA)-containing nigrostriatal pathway with 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) results in an increase in the density of nerve terminal glutamate immunolabeling and in the mean percentage of asymmetrical synapses containing a discontinuous postsynaptic density [Meshul et al. (1999) Neuroscience 88:1-16]. Similar alterations in striatal glutamate synapses have been reported following blockade of striatal DA D-2 receptors with subchronic haloperidol treatment [Meshul et al. (1994) Brain Res 648:181-195]. The haloperidol-induced change in glutamate synapses was blocked by coadministration of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) noncompetitive receptor antagonist MK-801. In order to determine if blockade of NMDA receptors could alter the density of nerve terminal glutamate immunolabeling following a 6-OHDA lesion of the nigrostriatal pathway, MK-801 was administered to lesioned animals for 14 days. In addition, the number of apomorphine-induced contralateral rotations was determined prior to and following the administration of MK-801. MK-801 administration reversed the increase in the density of nerve terminal glutamate immunolabeling due to a 6-OHDA lesion. There was a small but significant decrease in the number of apomorphine-induced contralateral rotations following administration of MK-801 compared to the number of rotations prior to treatment with the NMDA antagonist. These results demonstrate that blockade of postsynaptic NMDA receptors affects the density of presynaptic glutamate immunolabeling and that this change in nerve terminal glutamate density is associated with a decreased behavioral response to direct DA receptor stimulation. Whether the effect of MK-801 is directly on the striatum or acts through other excitatory pathways of the basal ganglia remains unclear.

The toxic metal lead is a widespread environmental health hazard that can adversely affect human health. In an effort to better understand the cellular and molecular consequences of lead exposure, we have employed cDNA microarrays to analyze the effects of acute lead exposure on large-scale gene expression patterns in immortalized rat astrocytes. Our studies identified many genes previously reported to be differentially regulated by lead exposure. Additionally, we have identified novel putative targets of lead-mediated toxicity, including members of the family of calcium/phospholipid binding annexins, the angiogenesis-inducing thrombospondins, collagens, and tRNA synthetases. We demonstrate the ability to distinguish lead-exposed samples from control or sodium samples solely on the basis of large-scale gene expression patterns using two complementary clustering methods. We have confirmed the altered expression of candidate genes and their encoded proteins by RT-PCR and Western blotting, respectively. Finally, we show that the calcium-dependent phospholipid binding protein annexin A5, initially identified as a differentially regulated gene by our microarray analysis, is directly bound and activated by nanomolar concentrations of lead. We conclude that microarray technology is an effective tool for the identification of lead-induced patterns of gene expression and molecular targets of lead.
Proteomics tools offer new ways to analyse networks of proteins that control important neurobiological phenomena such as learning and memory. In this review, we discuss how a combined proteomic, pharmacological and genetic approach reveals that multiprotein complexes process neural information and encode memories. Simultaneous analysis of multiple proteins enables the development of new concepts and approaches for neuroscience research.
We propose a new approach to the neuroscience of consciousness, growing out of the 'enactive' viewpoint in cognitive science. This approach aims to map the neural substrates of consciousness at the level of large-scale, emergent and transient dynamical patterns of brain activity (rather than at the level of particular circuits or classes of neurons), and it suggests that the processes crucial for consciousness cut across the brain-body-world divisions, rather than being brain-bound neural events. Whereas standard approaches to the neural correlates of consciousness have assumed a one-way causal-explanatory relationship between internal neural representational systems and the contents of consciousness, our approach allows for theories and hypotheses about the two-way or reciprocal relationship between embodied conscious states and local neuronal activity.
Intraneuronal filamentous inclusions composed of the microtubule-associated protein tau are a feature of several neurodegenerative diseases (including Alzheimer's disease) known as tauopathies. A pivotal finding was the identification in 1998 of mutations in tau associated with frontotemporal dementia with parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17. This demonstrated that tau dysfunction is sufficient to cause neurodegeneration, and indicated that tau is likely to play a crucial role in the pathogenesis of other tauopathies. However, the mechanism by which tau filamentous lesions form and their role in neurodegeneration remains uncertain. Recent progress in the development of transgenic mouse models of human tauopathy is allowing these questions to be addressed.
Over the past few years, the classic idea that no new nerve cells are born in the adult mammalian brain has finally and conclusively been refuted by the scientific community. Yet, the first indications that neurogenesis occurs in the brain of adult mammals were obtained using light and electron microscopy over two decades ago. Why this went unrecognized is described in a personal account by the researcher who pioneered those studies: Michael Kaplan.
In most birds and mammals, young are raised in family groups. The phenotypes of nestmates and parents are thus reliable cues for recognition of conspecifics and kin. However, in some species, young develop alone, or in broods of mixed relatedness (e.g. because of multiple paternity or maternity), or among heterospecifics or unrelated conspecifics (brood parasites). Under these circumstances, the best referent (model) for discriminating close from distant kin and heterospecifics from conspecifics might be one's own self. This recognition process is known as self-referent phenotype matching. Here we review recent experimental evidence of self-referencing and suggest that behavioral neuroscience can provide new tools and insights into how it works (its proximate mechanistic and ontogenetic bases) and why it exists (its adaptive significance).
High-frequency synchronous activity of neurons in the cerebral cortex and thalamus is a concomitant of discrete conscious events. In the primate thalamus, a newly identified population of neurons provides a basis for this synchronization. A matrix of calbindin-immunoreactive neurons extends throughout the thalamus and projects to superficial layers of cortex over wide areas, unconstrained by boundaries between areas. In some nuclei, a core of parvalbumin-immunoreactive neurons is superimposed upon the matrix. Core neurons project in a topographically ordered fashion to middle layers of the cortex in an area-specific manner. Matrix neurons, recruited by corticothalamic connections, can disperse activity across cortical areas and thalamic nuclei. Their superficial terminations can synchronize specific and nonspecific elements of the thalamocortical network in coherent activity that underlies cognitive events.
A major portion of the primary somatosensory cortex of rodents is characterized by the discrete and patterned distribution of thalamocortical axons and layer IV granule cells ('barrels'), which correspond to the spatial distribution of whiskers and sinus hairs on the snout. In recent years several mutant mouse models began unveiling the cellular and molecular mechanisms by which these patterns emerge presynaptically and are reflected postsynaptically. Neural activity plays a crucial role in conferring presynaptic patterns to postsynaptic cells via neurotransmitter receptor-mediated intracellular signals. Here we review recent evidence that is finally opening the doors to understanding the cellular and molecular mechanisms of pattern formation in the neocortex.
The majority of Alzheimer's disease is inherited in a complex manner involving environmental factors and several genes. One of these genes is Apolipoprotein E where the polymorphic allele (APOE epsilon 4) has been robustly shown to modify risk and the course of Alzheimer's disease. The epsilon 4 allele however, only accounts for approximately 50% of late onset Alzheimer's disease. Here we review three quite different approaches that have led to convincing evidence that there is at least one other susceptibility gene for complex inherited forms of Alzheimer's disease on chromosome 10q. Two linkage studies give strong evidence of a locus at almost exactly the same location: one using the amyloid beta brain-deposited fragment of the amyloid precursor protein as a continuous phenotype, and the other using a categorical disease phenotype. A third candidate gene linkage and association analysis approach interestingly finds a maximum signal approximately 35-60cM distal to the previous studies.
Recent anatomical and behavioral data show the expression of G-protein coupled metabotropic glutamate receptors in the periphery on nociceptive primary afferent nerve terminals, and provide evidence for a functional role of peripheral metabotropic glutamate receptors in inflammatory pain. These findings have important implications for new therapeutic strategies that target peripheral metabotropic glutamate receptors for pain relief. They also alert us to the necessity of assessing drug effects at different levels of the nervous system: peripheral and central.
There are only a few reported cases of psychiatric disorders presenting a s decompression sickness (DCS). Previous reports indicate that DCS can result in personality change, depression, Munchausen's syndrome, and pseudo stroke. We report two cases of acute psychoses that occurred following diving as suspected DCS and were treated with hyperbaric oxygen, which did not improve the psychotic features. One patient had symptoms of DCS including myalgias, weakness, and fatigue; however the symptoms were inconsistent. The symptom onset and nitrogen loading from his dive profiles made the diagnosis of DCS unlikely. The second patient exhibited mild joint pain, fatigue, and psychosis that was temporally associated with diving but no other symptoms of DCS. Following a detailed medical evaluation we determined that these two patients did not have DCS or arterial gas embolism (AGE). Although it is highly unlikely that a pure psychotic episode will arise as a result of DCS, physicians caring for divers with symptoms of DCS or AGE and acute psychosis may consider a trial of recompression therapy while completing the medical evaluation. Divers with acute psychosis without signs and symptoms and benign dive profiles are unlikely to have DCS or AGE.
Many normal individuals show ocular oscillations on eccentric gaze. This study was designed to investigate the effect of visual disengagement and visual feedback on the nature of these end point oscillations. Three test conditions were examined: target present, target absent and when the target position was determined by the subject's eye position via a variable feedback control system. Feedback gains (i.e. target velocity/eye velocity) ranged from 0, where the target position was decoupled from the subject's eye movements (i.e. the target is stationary on the screen), to +1.0 where the retinal image was stabilised (i.e. the target is driven by the subject's eye movements). Only subjects who exhibited sustained end-point oscillations with no latency were included in the study (n=6). Seven different oscillations including square-wave jerks were recorded in the abducting eye during eccentric gaze of a stationary target. The three most common oscillations were the jerk oscillations, with decelerating, linear or pendular slow phases. A number of additional previously unreported waveforms were also recorded. On removal of the target, the mean drift velocity of the slow phase was greatly reduced. The response to the introduction of a change in the visual feedback was specific to each subject, although in all cases, the end-point oscillations generally were of a lower velocity, and gaze was shifted by up to 8 deg in the direction of the slow phase within the first two seconds. The important role of slow eye movement control for maintaining gaze holding is discussed.
Kainate-induced status epilepticus is associated with both apoptotic and necrotic cell death and induction of heat shock proteins (HSPs) in hippocampal and cortical regions of the rodent brain. In the present study we have examined the temporal, spatial and cellular expression patterns of mRNAs for the highly inducible HSPs, HSP70 and HSP27, together with the apoptotic marker, caspase 3 (CPP32) in rat brain after systemic administration of kainate. HSP70 mRNA was transiently induced in the forebrain by kainate, principally in the CA1, CA3 and hilar cells of the hippocampal formation, in piriform cortex and discrete thalamic nuclei. Maximal expression was seen at 8 h after kainate which then declined to background levels by 7 days. Labelling was predominantly neuronal. In contrast, HSP27 mRNA expression was more widespread. Intense labelling was observed in CA1, CA3 and the hilar region at 8 h after kainate but the expression profile for HSP27 mRNA expanded considerably with intense signals seen in corpus callosum, cortex and thalamus at 24 h post kainate. Emulsion autoradiographs indicated a predominantly glial localisation for HSP27 mRNA. In the hilus, a distinct subpopulation of interneurones were found to express HSP27 mRNA. CPP32 mRNA was upregulated in CA1, CA3 and hilus of the hippocampal formation and in piriform cortex. CPP32 mRNA expression was more restricted and similar in distribution to HSP70 mRNA being localised to neurones. The present study demonstrates the unique early expression of HSP27 mRNA by glial cells and distinct populations of neurones which extends beyond those in which HSP70 and CPP32 induction occurs with subsequent cell loss.
Lithium is commonly used as a treatment for affective disorders in humans and as a toxin to produce conditioned taste aversions in rats. LiCl administration in rats has been correlated with activation of c-fos and cAMP-mediated gene transcription in many brain regions; however, little is known about the timing or duration of gene activation. We hypothesized that c-fos gene transcription is rapidly stimulated by LiCl, followed later by the expression of the inducible cAMP early repressor (ICER) transcription factor, a negative modulator of cAMP-mediated gene transcription. By in situ hybridization, we analyzed the timecourse of c-fos and ICER mRNA expression in the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA), the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN) and the supraoptic nucleus (SON) at seven time points (0, 0.3, 1, 3, 6, 9 and 12 h) after intraperitoneal LiCl injection (0.15 M, 12 ml/kg, 76 mg/kg). Expression of c-fos mRNA peaked between 20 min and 1 h and returned to baseline by 3 h in the CeA, PVN and SON. ICER mRNA was detected in these regions at 20 min, peaked at 1-3 h and returned to nearly baseline 9 h following LiCl injection. The time lag between c-fos mRNA expression and ICER mRNA expression within the same regions is consistent with ICER terminating c-fos gene transcription. However, no refractory period was detected for restimulation of c-fos transcription by a second injection of LiCl during the period of peak ICER mRNA expression, suggesting the involvement of other transcriptional modulators.
Kv4.2, a voltage-gated K+ (Kv) channel subunit, has been suggested to be the key component of the subthreshold A-type K+ currents (I(SA)s) recorded from the specific subcellular compartments of certain CNS neurons. To correlate Kv4.2 localization with the I(SA)s detected, immunohistochemistry will be useful. Although the Kv4.2 immunostaining pattern in the hippocampus and cerebellum has been reported, the Kv4.2 antibody used was not specific. Furthermore, Kv4.2 localization in other brain regions remains unclear. In this report, we first demonstrated the specificity of a new Kv4.2 antibody, and then used it to examine Kv4.2 localization throughout adult rat brain by immunohistochemistry. At the cellular level, Kv4.2 was found in neurons but not glias. At the subcellular level, Kv4.2 was localized in the somatodendritic compartment of most neurons examined. Nevertheless, our preliminary data indicated that Kv4.2 might be also present in the axon/terminal compartment. At the functional level, our data indicates that Kv4.2 localization and I(SA) correlate quite well in some CNS neurons, supporting that Kv4.2 is the key component of some I(SA)s recorded in vivo.
We describe a head-mounted micropump-injection system designed for the infusion of nanoliter volumes of drug solutions into discrete brain regions of the freely moving rats. Using a miniature step motor, the micropump-injection system can be readily constructed from commercially available supplies. In calibrating the micropump-injection system, we found that it will deliver a reliable volume of 50 nl per infusion over a 1-h period, with an infusion given every 1 min. From in vivo testing, we also found that rats readily self-administered up to 100 infusions of D-amphetamine into the nucleus accumbens at regular intervals, suggesting that this system can deliver constant volumes of infusions over time in freely moving rats. It (1) attaches easily to an implanted guide, (2) is compact and durable, (3) weighs only 10 g, and (4) is well tolerated with no apparent discomfort to the animal. This system overcomes some of the weaknesses of currently used intracranial self-administration systems.
The objective of visual systems neuroscience has shifted over the past few years from determining the receptive fields of cells towards the understanding of higher level cognition in awake animals viewing natural stimuli. In experiments with awake animals it is important to control the relevant aspects of behavior. Most important for vision science is the control of the direction of gaze. Here we present Dual Purkinje eye-tracking on cats, which--as a non-contact method--brings a number of advantages. Along with the presented methods for calibration and for synchronization to off-the-shelf video presentation hardware, this method allows high precision experiments to be performed on cats freely viewing videos of natural scenes.
Muscle contraction is usually measured and characterized with force and displacement transducers. The contraction of muscle fibers, however, evokes in the tissue a two and even three-dimensional displacement field, which is not properly quantified by these transducers because they provide just a single scalar quantity. This problem can be circumvented by using optical measurements and standard tools of computer vision, developed for the analysis of time varying image sequences. By computing the so called optical flow, i.e. the apparent motion of points in a time varying image sequence, it is possible to recover a two-dimensional motion field, describing rather precisely the displacement caused by muscle contraction in a flattened piece of skin. The obtained two-dimensional optical flow can be further analyzed by computing its elementary deformation components, providing a novel and accurate characterization of the contraction induced by different motoneurons. This technique is demonstrated analyzing the displacement caused by muscle contraction in the skin of the leech, Hirudo medicinalis. The proposed technique can be applied to monitor and characterize all contractions in almost flat tissues with enough visual texture.
Zinc enriched neurons have a pool of synaptic vesicles which contain free or loosely-bound zinc ions. The movement of the vesicular zinc ions into the synaptic clefts has been previously studied by microdialysis, fluorescence postmortem staining for zinc and radioactive zinc isotope. In this study the zinc fluorescence probe N-6-metoxy-p-toluensulfonamide quinoline (TSQ) has been applied as a tracer of synaptic release of zinc ions. This fluorochrome permeates cell membranes and when exposed to living brain slices gives rise to a staining pattern similar to that seen with autometallography. In the living brain slices, fluorescence emission persists after exposure to calcium saturated ethylen diamino-tetra-acetic acid (Ca-EDTA) because this chelator does not penetrate cell membranes, while sodium dethyldithiocarbamate (DEDTC), that does penetrate membranes, partially suppressed the fluorescence emission. Stimulation of slices bathed in the non-permeant chelator Ca-EDTA with 50 mM potassium chloride leads to a rapid and complete disappearance of fluorescence. In the absence of Ca-EDTA, however, potassium stimulation induces a sudden transitory increase in fluorescence. This increase is caused by a translocation of the fluorochrome (TSQ) zinc molecules from the weakly acid interior of the synaptic vesicles to the neutral extracellular space, whereby the fluorescence emission of the molecules is enhanced sufficiently to be recorded by a high sensitivity TV camera.
A serum- and steroid-free primary culture system was developed for the maintenance and automated analysis of cerebellar granule cell viability. Conventional poly-lysine coated 96-well tissue culture plates serve as a platform for growth, experimental manipulation and subsequent automated analysis of these primary cultured neurons. Cerebellar granule neurons were seeded at densities ranging from 2 x 10(4) to 1.25 x 10(6) cells/cm(2) and maintained in serum- and steroid-free culture conditions for 7 days. Viability was subsequently determined by the reduction of [3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-5-(3-carboxymethoxyphenyl)-2-(4-sulfophenyl)-2H-tetrazolium (MTS), and the degree of cell death occurring over that period was determined by the release of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH). At appropriate cell densities, the results of the MTS reduction and LDH release assays were directly proportional to the initial number of cerebellar granule cells plated. Those results indicate that an initial cell density of 0.5 - 1.0 x 10(5) cells per well (0.32 cm(2)) was appropriate for simultaneous analysis with the MTS reduction and LDH release assays. Both assays were then used to demonstrate the utility of this model system for analysis of tert-butyl-hydroperoxide and hydrogen peroxide induced oxidative stress. Additionally, the MTS reduction assay was used to demonstrate that the NMDA-receptor selective antagonist MK-801 was neuroprotective against glutamate-mediated excitotoxicity. This study defines a powerful and flexible primary culture system for cerebellar neurons that is useful for high-throughput analysis of factors that influence neuronal viability.
Adult, male Wistar rats showed substantial left (22.2%) or right (52.8%) bias in spontaneous arm preference in the T-maze; this bias was consistent over 2 days of testing separated by a 30 day interval. Left and right biased rats learnt very rapidly when trained to enter the arm ipsilateral to the bias; learning was significantly poorer or did not occur in the contralateral arm. This contralateral learning difficulty was particularly evident when transfer of learning was assessed. Right-biased rats were more impaired in contralateral learning than left-biased rats. Unbiased rats (25%) also showed learning difficulties. This study has important implications for spatial tasks of learning and memory; with specific reference to the T maze, it is concluded that animals should be preselected for capacity to learn in both arms, randomization into experimental and control groups should be stratified for spontaneous arm bias, and original learning should be directed towards the contralateral arm while transfer of learning, if required, can be directed into the ipsilateral arm.
A method is described for concurrent investigation of long-term potentiation (LTP) in the left and right CA1 synapses in dorsal hippocampi in guinea pig in vivo. Briefly, animals are anesthetized with urethane, and small access holes are made in the skull through which electrodes are lowered to stimulate the left CA3 and record from both CA1 regions. Using this animal model, we have found that LTP is produced in both CA1 regions, following conditioning stimulation to the left CA3. However, in some animals LTP occurred in the left CA1 without concomitant synaptic potentiation in the contralateral CA1. We also observed that in some experiments synaptic potentiation in the contralateral CA1, when present, decayed to baseline levels even though LTP persisted in the ipsilateral CA1. To conclude, our data on bilateral LTP demonstrates findings that are best addressed in vivo.
Microelectrodes using single carbon fibres as the conducting element have been used since 1979 for electrophysiological measurements in vivo and in vitro. However, there is still considerable discussion about the manufacture of these electrodes, and no overall agreement as to the best way to minimise electrode noise. In this article we describe some revised methods for carbon fibre electrode manufacture, which we believe, gives the lowest noise performance for spike recording in vivo.

The computational role of the hippocampus in memory has been characterized as: (i) an index to disparate neocortical storage sites; (ii) a time-limited store supporting neocortical long-term memory; and (iii) a content-addressable associative memory. These ideas are reviewed and related to several general aspects of episodic memory, including the differences between episodic, recognition and semantic memory, and whether hippocampal lesions differentially affect recent or remote memories. Some outstanding questions remain, such as: what characterizes episodic retrieval as opposed to other forms of read-out from memory; what triggers the storage of an event memory; and what are the neural mechanisms involved? To address these questions a neural-level model of the medial temporal and parietal roles in retrieval of the spatial context of an event is presented. This model combines the idea that retrieval of the rich context of real-life events is a central characteristic of episodic memory, and the idea that medial temporal allocentric representations are used in long-term storage while parietal egocentric representations are used to imagine, manipulate and re-experience the products of retrieval. The model is consistent with the known neural representation of spatial information in the brain, and provides an explanation for the involvement of Papez's circuit in both the representation of heading direction and in the recollection of episodic information. Two experiments relating to the model are briefly described. A functional neuroimaging study of memory for the spatial context of life-like events in virtual reality provides support for the model's functional localization. A neuropsychological experiment suggests that the hippocampus does store an allocentric representation of spatial locations.
The question of whether any non-human species displays episodic memory is controversial. Associative accounts of animal learning recognize that behaviour can change in response to single events but this does not imply that animals need or are later able to recall representations of unique events at a different time and place. The lack of language is also relevant, being the usual medium for communicating about the world, but whether it is critical for the capacity to represent and recall events is a separate matter. One reason for suspecting that certain animals possess an episodic-like memory system is that a variety of learning and memory tasks have been developed that, even though they do not meet the strict criteria required for episodic memory, have an 'episodic-like' character. These include certain one-trial learning tasks, scene-specific discrimination learning, multiple reversal learning, delayed matching and non-matching tasks and, most recently, tasks demanding recollection of 'what, where and when' an event happened. Another reason is that the neuronal architecture of brain areas thought to be involved in episodic memory (including the hippocampal formation) are substantially similar in mammals and, arguably, all vertebrates. Third, our developing understanding of activity-dependent synaptic plasticity (which is a candidate neuronal mechanism for encoding memory traces) suggests that its expression reflects certain physiological characteristics that are ideal components of a neuronal episodic memory system. These include the apparently digital character of synaptic change at individual terminals and the variable persistence of potentiation accounted for by the synaptic tag hypothesis. A further value of studying episodic-like memory in animals is the opportunity it affords to model certain kinds of neurodegenerative disease that, in humans, affect episodic memory. An example is recent work on a transgenic mouse that over-expresses a mutation of human amyloid precursor protein (APP) that occurs in familial Alzheimer's disease, under the control of platelet derived (PD) growth factor promoter (the PDAPP mouse). A striking age- and amyloid plaque-related deficit is seen using a task in which the mice have to keep changing their memory representation of the world rather than learn a single fact.
The dearth of studies on amnesia in children has led to the assumption that when damage to the medial temporal lobe system occurs early in life, the compensatory capacity of the immature brain rescues memory functions. An alternative view is that such damage so interferes with the development of learning and memory that it results not in selective cognitive impairments but in general mental retardation. Data will be presented to counter both of these arguments. Results obtained from a series of 11 amnesic patients with a history of hypoxic ischaemic damage sustained perinatally or during childhood indicate that regardless of age at onset of hippocampal pathology, there is a pronounced dissociation between episodic memory, which is severely impaired, and semantic memory, which is relatively preserved. A second dissociation is characterized by markedly impaired recall and relatively spared recognition leading to a distinction between recollection-based versus familiarity-based judgements. These findings are discussed in terms of the locus and extent of neuropathology associated with hypoxic ischaemic damage, the neural basis of 'remembering' versus 'knowing', and a hierarchical model of cognitive memory.
Investigation into the influence of specific genes and gene products upon the pathophysiology of cerebral ischaemia has been greatly enhanced by the use of genetically modified mice. A simple model of global cerebral ischaemia in mouse is bilateral common carotid artery occlusion (BCCAo) and the neuropathological impact of BCCAo has been investigated in several mouse strains. Bilateral carotid occlusion produces extensive neuronal damage in C57Bl/6J strain mice and this damage is linked to posterior communicating artery (PcomA) hypoplasticity in the circle of Willis. In the present study, we investigated the effect of BCCAo in MF1 strain mice and compared them with C57Bl/6J mice. The neuropathological consequences of BCCAo were assessed using standard histochemical staining and heat shock protein 70 (HSP70) immunohistochemical staining (to demarcate cells that had been ischaemically stressed). The effect of BCCAo on mean arterial blood pressure (MABP) was also measured. The plasticity of the circle of Willis was recorded using carbon black perfusion. MF1 mice displayed significantly less ischaemic neuronal damage and HSP70 immunoreactivity compared to C57Bl/6J mice following 10-20 min BCCAo. Moreover, ischaemic neuronal damage and HSP70 immunoreactivity in MF1 mice subjected to extended BCCAo (25-45 min) was never as extensive or widespread as that observed in C57Bl/6J mice after 20 min BCCAo. MABP in MF1 mice (102+/-5 mmHg) was significantly higher than in C57Bl/6J mice (87+/-5) during 20 min BCCAo. MABP in MF1 mice during 20 and 40 min (103+/-12 mmHg) BCCAo remained above pre-occlusion values for the entire occlusion period. MF1 mice had significantly greater circle of Willis plasticity (more PcomAs) than C57Bl/6J mice did. These data indicate that MF1 mice are less susceptible to BCCAo than C57Bl/6J mice and that this could be due to maintained increases in MABP during BCCAo and the lower prevalence of abnormalities of the circle of Willis in MF1 mice.
It is now evident that a bidirectional communication network exists between the central nervous system (CNS) and immune system (IS). However, the way in which the IS passes inform to the brain is not quite clear.In the present study, one of the neural pathways involved in the cytokine-to-brain communication was investigated in the rat. This pathway starts at the vagal nerve projecting to the medullary visceral zone (MVZ), an arc-shape band from the dorsomedial to ventrolateral area in the middle-caudal segment of the medulla oblongata, and terminates at the central amygdaloid nucleus (Ce) which receives projections from large catecholaminergic neurons in the MVZ. Animals were randomly divided into two experimental groups. Triple-labeling was used in Group I animals to combine wheat germ aggulutinin-conjugated horseradish peroxidase (WGA-HRP) retrograde tracing with anti-Fos and anti-tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunostaining. WGA-RP was stereotaxically injected into the unilateral Ce of the animals and, after a survival period of 48 h, intraperitoneal (IP) injection of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) was performed. Seven kinds of labeled neurons were observed in the MVZ, namely, HRP-, Fos- or TH-singly-labeled neurons; Fos/HRP-, Fos/TH- or HRP/TH-doubly-labeled neurons; and Fos/HRP/TH-triply-labeled neurons. As for Group II animals, bilateral subdiaphragmatic vagotomy (SDV) or sham operation was performed, followed 4 weeks later by IP injection of LPS. The number of Fos-positive neurons within the Ce and MVZ was significantly lower (P&lt;0.01) in rats having SDV when compared with those receiving sham operation. Our results suggest that part of the peripheral immune information can be conveyed through the vagus to the catecholaminergic neurons in the MVZ, where it is transported to the Ce. The MVZ is a neural relay station in the immune-to-brain communication and might play a significant role in neuroimmuno-modulation via the vagus-MVZ-Ce pathway.
The functional significance of the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) in circadian rhythm control of mammals has been well documented. The role of protein phosphorylation mediated by protein kinase C (PKC), however, is not well known. We report the immunocytochemical localization of three Ca(2+)-dependent PKC isoforms (alpha, betaI, betaII) within the SCN of selected house mouse lines that differ in behavioral circadian rhythm parameters. Optical density measurements revealed that the adult mice selected for low levels of nest-building behavior (small nest-builders) had more than threefold higher PKCbetaI immunostaining in the SCN than the mice selected for high levels of nest-building behavior (big nest-builders). A similar twofold difference between the adult small and big nest-builders was observed for the number of PKCbetaI-containing cells in the SCN. The non-selected control lines were intermediate. Ten-day-old pups revealed similar differences in PKCbetaI immunostaining in the SCN between the small and big nest-builders. PKCalpha and PKCbetaII immunostaining in the SCN was not different among the lines. PKCbetaI immunostaining was not different among the selected lines in the lateroanterior hypothalamic nucleus (LA) and the cornu ammonis field 1 (CA1) of the dorsal hippocampus and confirms the specificity of the difference in PKCbetaI immunostaining in the SCN among the selected lines. The significance of these findings is discussed in the context of differences among the lines in arginine-vasopressin (AVP) and light-induced Fos expression in the SCN, behavioral phase-delay responses to 15-min light pulses in constant darkness, and measures of the strength of the circadian activity rhythm expressed.
Naturally occurring estrogen-like molecules in plants (phytoestrogens), present via soy, in animal diets can alter morphology and physiology in rodents. Phytoestrogens have the ability to bind estrogen receptors and exert many of the biological responses evoked by physiological estrogens. This study characterized the effects of dietary phytoestrogens on the expression of body and prostate weight, circulating testosterone and estradiol levels, puberty onset, vaginal cyclicity, and volume of the sexually dimorphic nucleus of the preoptic area (SDN-POA) in Long-Evans rats. Using different experimental protocols, animals were fed either a phytoestrogen-rich (Phyto-600) or a phytoestrogen-free (Phyto-free) diet. Animals fed the Phyto-600 diet displayed significantly decreased body weights (in males and females), prostate weights and delayed puberty in females compared to that of animals fed the Phyto-free diet. Circulating testosterone or estradiol levels in males or estrous cyclicity were not altered by the diets. The volume of the SDN-POA was significantly altered by a change in diet at 80 days of age where one-half of the males or females fed the Phyto-600 diet (from birth) were switched to the Phyto-free diet until 120 days of age. Males initially fed a Phyto-600 diet but changed to a Phyto-free diet had significantly smaller SDN-POA volumes compared to males fed the Phyto-600 diet (long-term). These data suggest that consumption of phytoestrogens via a soy diet, significantly: (1) decreases body and prostate weight, (2) delays puberty onset, and (3) alters SDN-POA volumes during adulthood.
The present study examined the effect of endomorphin-1 (EM1), an endogenous opioid with a high affinity for the mu opiate receptor, on conditioned defeat. Conditioned defeat is a phenomenon in which hamsters that have been defeated subsequently fail to exhibit normal territorial aggression and instead display submissive/defensive behaviors even when paired with a non-aggressive intruder. In experiment 1, animals were placed in the home cage of a larger resident for 15 min and were defeated. After 24 h, animals received a 3-microl injection of EM1 (0.0, 0.3, 3.0, or 10 nmol) into the left lateral cerebral ventricle 5 min before a smaller non-aggressive intruder was placed in the home cage of the experimental animal. In experiment 2, animals were infused with EM1 immediately after the initial defeat and were paired with a non-aggressive intruder 24 h later as in experiment 1. EM1 reduced the duration of submissive/defensive behavior in experiment 1 (P&lt;0.05) but not in experiment 2 (P&gt;0.05). These data support the hypothesis that the highly selective mu receptor agonist endomorphin-1 modulates the expression of conditioned defeat, but provides no support for the hypothesis that endomorphin-1 modulates the consolidation of conditioned defeat.
The main objective of this study was to determine if levels of alpha-, beta- and/or gamma-synuclein mRNAs are differentially affected in brains of Lewy body disease (LBD) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients, compared to controls. In control cases, highest levels of expression were observed in the neocortex and the lowest in basal ganglia and substantia nigra. beta-Synuclein was the most abundant message (75-80%), followed by gamma-synuclein (10-15%) and alpha-synuclein (8-10%). Analysis of the superior temporal cortex, a region selectively affected in LBD and AD, showed that compared to controls, levels of alpha-synuclein were increased in cases of diffuse LBD (DLBD), levels of beta-synuclein were decreased in AD and DLBD, and levels of gamma-synuclein were increased in AD cases. This study suggests that a critical balance among products of the synuclein gene is important to maintain normal brain function and that alterations in this balance might be associated with neurodegenerative disorders.
In smooth muscle, release via the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (Ins(1,4,5)P(3)R) and ryanodine receptors (RyR) on the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) controls oscillatory and steady-state cytosolic Ca(2+) concentrations ([Ca(2+)](c)). The interplay between the two receptors, itself determined by their organization on the SR, establishes the time course and spatial arrangement of the Ca(2+) signal. Whether or not the receptors are co-localized or distanced from each other on the same store or whether they exist on separate stores will significantly affect the Ca(2+) signal produced by the SR. To date these matters remain unresolved. The functional arrangement of the RyR and Ins(1,4,5)P(3)R on the SR has now been examined in isolated single voltage-clamped colonic myocytes. Depletion of the ryanodine-sensitive store, by repeated application of caffeine, in the presence of ryanodine, abolished the response to Ins(1,4,5)P(3), suggesting that Ins(1,4,5)P(3)R and RyR share a common Ca(2+) store. Ca(2+) release from the Ins(1,4,5)P(3)R did not activate Ca(2+)-induced Ca(2+) release at the RyR. Depletion of the Ins(1,4,5)P(3)-sensitive store, by the removal of external Ca(2+), on the other hand, caused only a small decrease ( approximately 26%) in caffeine-evoked Ca(2+) transients, suggesting that not all RyR exist on the common store shared with Ins(1,4,5)P(3)R. Dependence of the stores on external Ca(2+) for replenishment also differed; removal of external Ca(2+) depleted the Ins(1,4,5)P(3)-sensitive store but caused only a slight reduction in caffeine-evoked transients mediated at RyR. Different mechanisms are presumably responsible for the refilling of each store. Refilling of both Ins(1,4,5)P(3)-sensitive and caffeine-sensitive Ca(2+) stores was inhibited by each of the SR Ca(2+) ATPase inhibitors thapsigargin and cyclopiazonic acid. These results may be explained by the existence of two functionally distinct Ca(2+) stores; the first expressing only RyR and refilled from [Ca(2+)](c), the second expressing both Ins(1,4,5)P(3)R and RyR and dependent upon external Ca(2+) for refilling.
Tropomyosin is an alpha-helical coiled-coil protein that aligns head-to-tail along the length of the actin filament and regulates its function. The solution structure of the functionally important N terminus of a short 247-residue non-muscle tropomyosin was determined in an engineered chimeric protein, GlyTM1bZip, consisting of the first 19 residues of rat short alpha-tropomyosin and the last 18 residues of the GCN4 leucine zipper. A gene encoding GlyTM1bZip was synthesized, cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli. Triple resonance NMR spectra were analyzed with the program AutoAssign to assign its backbone resonances. Multidimensional nuclear Overhauser effect spectra, X-filtered spectra and (3)J(H(N)-H(alpha)) scalar coupling were analyzed using AutoStructure. This is the first application of this new program to determine the three-dimensional structure of a symmetric homodimer and a structure not previously reported. Residues 7-35 in GlyTM1bZip form a coiled coil, but neither end is helical. Heteronuclear (15)N-(1)H nuclear Overhauser effect data showed that the non-helical N-terminal residues are flexible. The (13)C' chemical shifts of the coiled-coil backbone carbonyl groups in GlyTM1bZip showed a previously unreported periodicity, where resonances arising from residues at the coiled-coil interface in a and d positions of the heptad repeat were displaced relatively upfield and those arising from residues in c positions were displaced relatively downfield. Heteronuclear single quantum coherence spectra, collected as a function of temperature, showed that cross-peaks arising from the alpha-helical backbone and side-chains at the coiled-coil interface broadened or shifted with T(M) values approximately 20 degrees C lower than the loss of alpha-helix measured by circular dichroism, suggesting the presence of a folding intermediate. The side-chain of Ile14, a residue essential for binding interactions, exhibited multiple conformations. The conformational flexibility of the N termini of short tropomyosins may be important for their binding specificity.
Microglia, brain inflammatory cells, are activated in injured brain and function similar to macrophages. The activated microglia produce nitric oxide (NO), a major toxic substance from these cells, by inducing expression of inducible NO synthase (iNOS). In this study, we found that sphingomyelinase (SMase) alone induced NO release/iNOS mRNA expression in cultured rat brain microglia. On the contrary to SMase, however, membrane-permeable c2-ceramide had little effect on NO release/iNOS mRNA expression. Fumonisin B1, an inhibitor of de novo synthesis of ceramide, did not reduce lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced NO release. However, neither SMase nor c2-ceramide enhanced LPS- or Abeta (25-35)-induced NO release/iNOS mRNA expression.
Despite extensive evidence for regions of human visual cortex that respond selectively to faces, few studies have considered the cortical representation of the appearance of the rest of the human body. We present a series of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies revealing substantial evidence for a distinct cortical region in humans that responds selectively to images of the human body, as compared with a wide range of control stimuli. This region was found in the lateral occipitotemporal cortex in all subjects tested and apparently reflects a specialized neural system for the visual perception of the human body.



There is a need to understand the mechanisms of neural synchronization during development because correlated rhythmic activity is thought to be critical for the establishment of proper connectivity. The relative importance of chemical and electrical synapses for synchronization of electrical activity during development is unclear. We examined the activity patterns of identified spinal neurons at the onset of motor activity in zebrafish embryos. Rhythmic activity appeared early and persisted upon blocking chemical neurotransmission but was abolished by inhibitors of gap junctions. Paired recordings revealed that active spinal neurons were electrically coupled and formed a simple network of motoneurons and a subset of interneurons. Thus, the earliest spinal central pattern generator consists of synchronously active, electrically coupled neurons.
NMDA receptors (NMDARs) typically contribute to excitatory synaptic transmission in the CNS. While Ca(2+) influx through NMDARs plays a critical role in synaptic plasticity, direct actions of NMDAR-mediated Ca(2+) influx on neuronal excitability have not been well established. Here we show that Ca(2+) influx through NMDARs is directly coupled to activation of BK-type Ca(2+)-activated K+ channels in outside-out membrane patches from rat olfactory bulb granule cells. Repetitive stimulation of glutamatergic synapses in olfactory bulb slices evokes a slow inhibitory postsynaptic current (IPSC) in granule cells that requires both NMDARs and BK channels. The slow IPSC is enhanced by glutamate uptake blockers, suggesting that extrasynaptic NMDARs underlie the response. These findings reveal a novel inhibitory action of extrasynaptic NMDARs in the brain.
The involvement of red blood cell spectrin in the ubiquitination process was studied. Spectrin was found to form two ubiquitin-associated derivatives, a DTT-sensitive ubiquitin adduct and a DTT-insensitive conjugate, characteristic intermediate and final products of the ubiquitination reaction cascade. In addition to spectrin and ubiquitin, ubiquitin-activating enzyme (E1) and ATP were necessary and sufficient to form both the spectrin-ubiquitin adduct and conjugate. No exogenous ubiquitin-conjugating (E2) or ligase (E3) activities were required, suggesting that erythrocyte spectrin is an E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme able to target itself. Both ubiquitin adduct and conjugate were linked to the alpha subunit of spectrin, suggesting that the ubiquitin-conjugating (UBC) domain and its target regions reside on the same subunit.
Nitrogen monoxide (NO) has been reported to both activate and inhibit prostaglandin (PG) biosynthesis. This apparent paradox might be explained by the production/action of distinct NO-related species formed as a result of the prevailing redox states of different cellular systems. As such, the effect of NO donors with different redox characteristics on the modulation of prostaglandin H synthase-2 (PGHS-2) in primary mouse cortical astrocytes and COS-7 cells engineered to overexpress PGHS-2 was assessed. In general, compounds that released NO(*) or NO(-) enhanced, while a peroxynitrite (OONO(-)) generator inhibited, PGHS-2-dependent prostaglandin production. While the possibility of altered gene transcription was eliminated in the COS-7 system as PGHS-2 was maximally expressed, in primary astrocytes where PGHS-2 expression was induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS), effects on protein expression were detected. Compounds that released NO(*) synergistically enhanced LPS-mediated PGHS-2 protein synthesis. None of these effects were mediated by cGMP. All donors lost their ability to modulate PGHS-2 expression and function when decayed. These results indicate that the ultimate effect of NO on PGHS-2 enzyme activity and expression is dictated by the prevalent NO-related species formed, suggesting that important interactions which may exist between NO and prostanoid pathways in vivo will be highly dependent on the inherent redox environment.
The interaction of PDZ domain-containing proteins with the C termini of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazolepropionate (AMPA) receptors has been suggested to be important in the regulation of receptor targeting to excitatory synapses. Recent studies have shown that the rapid internalization of AMPA receptors at synapses may mediate, at least in part, the expression of long-term depression (LTD). We have previously shown that phosphorylation of Ser-880 on the AMPA receptor GluR2 subunit differentially regulated the interaction of GluR2 with the PDZ domain-containing proteins GRIP1 and PICK1. Here, we show that induction of LTD in hippocampal slices increases phosphorylation of Ser-880 within the GluR2 C-terminal PDZ ligand, suggesting that the modulation of GluR2 interaction with GRIP1 and PICK1 may regulate AMPA receptor internalization during LTD. Moreover, postsynaptic intracellular perfusion of GluR2 C-terminal peptides that disrupt GluR2 interaction with PICK1 inhibit the expression of hippocampal LTD. These results suggest that the interaction of GluR2 with PICK1 may play a regulatory role in the expression of LTD in the hippocampus.
The view that memory is encoded by variations in the strength of synapses implies that long-term biochemical changes take place within subcellular microdomains of neurons. These changes are thought ultimately to be an effect of transcriptional regulation of specific genes. Localized changes, however, cannot be fully explained by a purely transcriptional control of gene expression. The neuron-specific ELAV-like HuB, HuC, and HuD RNA-binding proteins act posttranscriptionally by binding to adenine- and uridine-rich elements (AREs) in the 3' untranslated region of a set of target mRNAs, and by increasing mRNA cytoplasmic stability and/or rate of translation. Here we show that neuronal ELAV-like genes undergo a sustained up-regulation in hippocampal pyramidal cells only of mice and rats that have learned a spatial discrimination paradigm. This learning-specific increase of ELAV-like proteins was localized within cytoplasmic compartments of the somata and proximal dendrites and was associated with the cytoskeleton. This increase was also accompanied by enhanced expression of the GAP-43 gene, known to be regulated mainly posttranscriptionally and whose mRNA is demonstrated here to be an in vivo ELAV-like target. Antisense-mediated knockdown of HuC impaired spatial learning performance in mice and induced a concomitant down-regulation of GAP-43 expression. Neuronal ELAV-like proteins could exert learning-induced posttranscriptional control of an array of target genes uniquely suited to subserve substrates of memory storage.
Cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5) is a multifunctional neuronal protein kinase that is required for neurite outgrowth and cortical lamination and that plays an important role in dopaminergic signaling in the neostriatum through phosphorylation of Thr-75 of DARPP-32 (dopamine and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein, molecular mass 32 kDa). Casein kinase 1 (CK1) has been implicated in a variety of cellular functions such as DNA repair, circadian rhythm, and intracellular trafficking. In the neostriatum, CK1 has been found to phosphorylate Ser-137 of DARPP-32. However, first messengers for the regulation of Cdk5 or CK1 have remained unknown. Here we report that both Cdk5 and CK1 are regulated by metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) in neostriatal neurons. (S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG), an agonist for group I mGluRs, increased Cdk5 and CK1 activities in neostriatal slices, leading to the enhanced phosphorylation of Thr-75 and Ser-137 of DARPP-32, respectively. The effect of DHPG on Thr-75, but not on Ser-137, was blocked by a Cdk5-specific inhibitor, butyrolactone. In contrast, the effects of DHPG on both Thr-75 and Ser-137 were blocked by CK1-7 and IC261, specific inhibitors of CK1, suggesting that activation of Cdk5 by mGluRs requires CK1 activity. In support of this possibility, the DHPG-induced increase in Cdk5 activity, measured in extracts of neostriatal slices, was abolished by CK1-7 and IC261. Treatment of acutely dissociated neurons with DHPG enhanced voltage-dependent Ca(2+) currents. This enhancement was eliminated by either butyrolactone or CK1-7 and was absent in DARPP-32 knockout mice. Together these results indicate that a CK1-Cdk5-DARPP-32 cascade may be involved in the regulation by mGluR agonists of Ca(2+) channels.
The longevity of some of the behavioral abnormalities that characterize drug addiction has suggested that regulation of neural gene expression may be involved in the process by which drugs of abuse cause a state of addiction. Increasing evidence suggests that the transcription factor DeltaFosB represents one mechanism by which drugs of abuse produce relatively stable changes in the brain that contribute to the addiction phenotype. DeltaFosB, a member of the Fos family of transcription factors, accumulates within a subset of neurons of the nucleus accumbens and dorsal striatum (brain regions important for addiction) after repeated administration of many kinds of drugs of abuse. Similar accumulation of DeltaFosB occurs after compulsive running, which suggests that DeltaFosB may accumulate in response to many types of compulsive behaviors. Importantly, DeltaFosB persists in neurons for relatively long periods of time because of its extraordinary stability. Therefore, DeltaFosB represents a molecular mechanism that could initiate and then sustain changes in gene expression that persist long after drug exposure ceases. Studies in inducible transgenic mice that overexpress either DeltaFosB or a dominant negative inhibitor of the protein provide direct evidence that DeltaFosB causes increased sensitivity to the behavioral effects of drugs of abuse and, possibly, increased drug seeking behavior. This work supports the view that DeltaFosB functions as a type of sustained &quot;molecular switch&quot; that gradually converts acute drug responses into relatively stable adaptations that contribute to the long-term neural and behavioral plasticity that underlies addiction.
Changes in the environment cause both short-term and long-term changes in an animal's behavior. Here we show that specific sensory experiences cause changes in chemosensory receptor gene expression that may alter sensory perception in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. Three predicted chemosensory receptor genes expressed in the ASI chemosensory neurons, srd-1, str-2, and str-3, are repressed by exposure to the dauer pheromone, a signal of crowding. Repression occurs at pheromone concentrations below those that induce formation of the alternative dauer larva stage, suggesting that exposure to pheromones can alter the chemosensory behaviors of non-dauer animals. In addition, ASI expression of srd-1, but not str-2 and str-3, is induced by sensory activity of the ASI neurons. Expression of two receptor genes is regulated by developmental entry into the dauer larva stage. srd-1 expression in ASI neurons is repressed in dauer larvae. str-2 expression in dauer animals is induced in the ASI neurons, but repressed in the AWC neurons. The ASI and AWC neurons remodel in the dauer stage, and these results suggest that their sensory specificity changes as well. We suggest that experience-dependent changes in chemosensory receptor gene expression may modify olfactory behaviors.
Plasticity is a remarkable feature of the brain, allowing neuronal structure and function to accommodate to patterns of electrical activity. One component of these long-term changes is the activity-driven induction of new gene expression, which is required for both the long-lasting long-term potentiation of synaptic transmission associated with learning and memory, and the activity dependent survival events that help to shape and wire the brain during development. We have characterized molecular mechanisms by which neuronal membrane depolarization and subsequent calcium influx into the cytoplasm lead to the induction of new gene transcription. We have identified three points within this cascade of events where the specificity of genes induced by different types of stimuli can be regulated. By using the induction of the gene that encodes brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) as a model, we have found that the ability of a calcium influx to induce transcription of this gene is regulated by the route of calcium entry into the cell, by the pattern of phosphorylation induced on the transcription factor cAMP-response element (CRE) binding protein (CREB), and by the complement of active transcription factors recruited to the BDNF promoter. These results refine and expand the working model of activity-induced gene induction in the brain, and help to explain how different types of neuronal stimuli can activate distinct transcriptional responses.
The heme oxygenase (HO) and nitric oxide (NO) synthase (NOS) systems display notable similarities as well as differences. HO and NOS are both oxidative enzymes using NADPH as an electron donor. The constitutive forms of the enzyme are differentially activated, with calcium entry stimulating NOS by binding to calmodulin, whereas calcium entry activates protein kinase C to phosphorylate and activate HO2. Although both NO and carbon monoxide (CO) stimulate soluble guanylyl cyclase to form cGMP, NO also S-nitrosylates selected protein targets. Both involve constitutive and inducible biosynthetic enzymes. However, functions of the inducible forms are virtual opposites. Macrophage-inducible NOS generates NO to kill other cells, whereas HO1 generates bilirubin to exert antioxidant cytoprotective effects and also provides cytoprotection by facilitating iron extrusion from cells. The neuronal form of HO, HO2, is also cytoprotective. Normally, neural NO in the brain seems to exert some sort of behavioral inhibition. However, excess release of NO in response to glutamate's N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor activation leads to stroke damage. On the other hand, massive neuronal firing during a stroke presumably activates HO2, leading to neuroprotective actions of bilirubin. Loss of this neuroprotection after HO inhibition by mutant forms of amyloid precursor protein may mediate neurotoxicity in Familial Alzheimer's Disease. NO and CO both appear to be neurotransmitters in the brain and peripheral autonomic nervous system. They also are physiologic endothelial-derived relaxing factors for blood vessels. In the gastrointestinal pathway, NO and CO appear to function as coneurotransmitters, both stimulating soluble guanylyl cyclase to cause smooth muscle relaxation.


Brodmann showed areas 26, 29, 30, 23, and 31 on the human posterior cingulate gyrus without marking sulcal areas. Histologic studies of retrosplenial areas 29 and 30 identify them on the ventral bank of the cingulate gyrus (CGv), whereas standardized atlases show area 30 on the surface of the caudomedial region. This study evaluates all areas on the CGv and caudomedial region with rigorous cytologic criteria in coronal and oblique sections Nissl stained or immunoreacted for neuron-specific nuclear binding protein and nonphosphorylated neurofilament proteins (NFP-ir). Ectosplenial area 26 has a granular layer with few large pyramidal neurons below. Lateral area 29 (29l) has a dense granular layer II-IV and undifferentiated layers V and VI. Medial area 29 (29m) has a layer III of medium and NFP-ir pyramids and a layer IV with some large, NFP-ir pyramidal neurons that distinguish it from areas 29l, 30, and 27. Although area 29m is primarily on the CGv, a terminal branch can extend onto the caudomedial lobule. Area 30 is dysgranular with a variable thickness layer IV that is interrupted by large NFP-ir neurons in layers IIIc and Va. Although area 30 does not appear on the surface of the caudomedial lobule, a terminal branch can form less that 1% of this gyrus. Area 23a is isocortex with a clear layer IV and large, NFP-ir neurons in layers IIIc and Va. Area 23b is similar to area 23a but with a thicker layer IV, more large neurons in layer Va, and a higher density of NFP-ir neurons in layer III. The caudomedial gyral surface is composed of areas 23a and 23b and a caudal extension of area 31. Although posterior area 27 and the parasubiculum are similar to rostral levels, posterior area 36' differs from rostral area 36. Subregional flat maps show that retrosplenial cortex is on the CGv, most of the surface of caudomedial cortex is areas 23a, 23b, and 31, and the retrosplenial/parahippocampal border is at the ventral edge of the splenium. Thus, Brodmann's map understates the rostral extent of retrosplenial cortex, overstates its caudoventral extent, and abridges the caudomedial extent of area 23.
Hypothermia was used to induce anesthesia in infant rats on postnatal days 1 or 10. In adulthood measures of spatial learning and activity were taken before the brains were harvested for measurement of cortical thickness and dendritic arborization in layer III pyramidal cells in parietal cortex. Cryoanethesia on day 1, but not day 10, produced a small, but statistically significant, impairment in learning a spatial navigation task as well as a reduction in cortical thickness and dendritic arborization. This study confirms that cryoanesthesia is not a benign treatment in newborn pups but appears to be without effect in older animals. It is important that all studies using cryoanesthesia have sham control animals exposed to the same degree of hypothermia.
The rat prepro-thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH) 178-199 is derived from prepro-TRH by the actions of the endopeptidases, prohormone convertase 1 (PC1) and PC2. PPTRH 178-199 attenuates the synthesis and secretion of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) from the anterior pituitary both in vitro and in vivo, suggesting an inhibitory action on hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis function. This peptide also acts centrally to increase activity and decrease anxiety related behaviors. To elucidate the involvement of this peptide in these functions, we have compared the expression of PPTRH 178-199, PPTRH mRNA, and PC1 and PC2 mRNAs in the Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) and Wistar strains of rat. WKY rats have been shown to possess neuroendocrine abnormalities (HPA hyper-activity) and hyper-emotional behavioral characteristics. Immunohistochemical analysis of PPTRH 178-199 demonstrated significant strain differences in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus and the parastrial nucleus (PSN). WKY rats had significantly greater numbers of immunoreactive (IR) cell body profiles (P&lt;0.0005) than Wistar rats in the PVN and a significantly lower fiber density (P&lt;0.002) in the PSN. Levels of PPTRH, PC1, and PC2 mRNA were not different between strains in any brain region examined. These data suggest that altered levels of PPTRH 178-199 in WKY rats could cause, at least in part, the hyper-activity of the HPA axis and the hyper-emotional behavioral characteristics seen in this rat strain. Such data fit with the hypothesis that PPTRH 178-199 is involved in the regulation of the HPA axis and behavior.
Naturally occurring estrogen-like molecules in plants (phytoestrogens), present via soy, in animal diets, exert many of the biological responses evoked by physiological estrogens. This study characterized the effects of dietary phytoestrogens on the expression of body weight, consummatory behavior, and anxiety (as expressed in the elevated plus-maze). Phytoestrogens produced anxiolytic effects in both male and female Long-Evans rats. Additionally, phytoestrogens decreased body weight but increased consumption of food and/or water.
Detailed quantitative analysis of the vulnerability of different hippocampal and striatal neurons to global forebrain ischemia has not previously been performed. Here we have studied the survival of immunocytochemically identified neurons using an unbiased stereological method in rats subjected to global forebrain ischemia for 30 min and sacrificed 48 h, 1 week or 4 weeks thereafter. Within the hippocampal formation, there was extensive, progressive loss of CA1 pyramidal neurons and dentate hilar neuropeptide Y (NPY)-positive interneurons. In contrast, no reduction of the number of CA3 and CA4 pyramidal neurons or hilar parvalbumin-positive interneurons was detected. In the dorsolateral striatum, the insult caused a major loss of projection neurons immunoreactive to dopamine- and adenosine 3':5'-monophosphate-regulated phosphoprotein with a molecular weight of 32 kilodalton (DARPP-32). The number of parvalbumin-positive striatal interneurons was significantly reduced, while NPY-positive interneurons were resistant. All striatal cholinergic interneurons survived the ischemic insult. At 48 h following the ischemia, the cholinergic interneurons within the lesioned striatum transiently expressed the p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75(NTR)), as shown by double-label immunocytochemistry. Furthermore, there was a significant increase in the number of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT)- and TrkA-immunoreactive interneurons at 4 weeks after the insult. Injections with the cell mitotic division marker BrdU provided no evidence that the elevated cholinergic cell number was due to neurogenesis. Probably, the higher number of ChAT- and TrkA-positive interneurons reflected increased intracellular levels of the corresponding proteins leading to more cells detectable with immunocytochemistry. This study gives the first quantitative description of the vulnerability of defined hippocampal and striatal neurons after global forebrain ischemia. The ischemia-induced increases of p75(NTR), TrkA and ChAT in cholinergic striatal interneurons at various time points after the insult suggest that neurotrophin signaling might be important for the survival and function of these cells in the post-ischemic phase.
Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) is a secreted cytokine which is expressed in the central nervous system (CNS) together with its specific receptor MET. Since HGF exerts strong neurotrophic activity including motoneurons, we have further analysed whether the HGF/MET axis is defective in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Intrathecal HGF-secretion was measured in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and in controls without neurological diseases using a specific sandwich immunoassay (ELISA). MET-expression was analysed by immunohistology in spinal cord cross-sections of ALS patients and unaffected controls. The HGF concentrations in CSF were moderately but significantly increased in ALS patients compared to healthy controls (580 pg/ml vs 348 pg/ml). MET-protein was detectable in spinal cord motoneurons of patients with ALS as well as unaffected controls. The data demonstrate that ALS does not show a lack of the trophic signalling axis, HGF/MET, suggesting that the signalling system itself is not affected. The moderate increase in HGF-secretion may represent a compensatory effect.
The recently cloned protein, calcyon, potentiates crosstalk between G(s)-coupled dopamine D1 receptors and heterologous G(q/11)-coupled receptors allowing dopamine D1 receptors to stimulate intracellular Ca(2+) release, in addition to cAMP production. This crosstalk also requires the participating G(q/11)-coupled receptors to be primed by their agonists. We examined the ability of calcyon and priming to regulate the affinity of dopamine D1 receptors for its ligands. Receptor binding assays were performed on HEK293 cell membrane preparations expressing dopamine D1 receptors either alone or in combination with calcyon. Co-expression of dopamine D1 receptor and calcyon affected neither the affinity of this receptor for antagonists nor the affinity of agonist binding to this receptor high and low-affinity states. However, the presence of calcyon dramatically decreased the proportion of the high-affinity dopamine D1 receptor agonist binding sites. This decrease was reversed by carbachol, which primes the receptor crosstalk by stimulating endogenous G(q/11)-coupled muscarinic receptors. Our findings suggest that calcyon regulates the ability of dopamine D1 receptors to achieve the high-affinity state for agonists, in a manner that depends on priming of receptor crosstalk.
Using bioinformatic tools, mutagenesis, and binding studies, we have investigated the structural organization of the extracellular region of the RET receptor tyrosine kinase, a functional receptor for glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF). Multiple sequence alignments of seven vertebrate sequences and one invertebrate RET sequence delineated four distinct N-terminal domains, each of about 110 residues, containing many of the consensus motifs of the cadherin fold. Based on these alignments and the crystal structures of epithelial and neural cadherins, we have generated molecular models of each of the four cadherin-like domains in the extracellular region of human RET. The modeled structures represent realistic models from both energetic and geometrical points of view and are consistent with previous observations gathered from biochemical analyses of the effects of Hirschsprung's disease mutations affecting the folding and stability of the RET molecule, as well as our own site-directed mutagenesis studies of RET cadherin-like domain 1. We have also investigated the role of Ca(2+) in ligand binding by RET and found that Ca(2+) ions are required for RET binding to GDNF but not for GDNF binding to the GFRalpha1 co-receptor. In agreement with these results, RET, but not GFRalpha1, was found to bind Ca(2+) directly. Our results indicate that the overall architecture of the extracellular region of RET is more closely related to cadherins than previously thought. The models of the cadherin-like domains of human RET represent valuable tools with which to guide future site-directed mutagenesis studies aimed at identifying residues involved in ligand binding and receptor activation.
Neurons in the lateral paragigantocellular nucleus (LPGi) are known to project directly to the infralimbic cortex (IL). However, there have been no physiological studies on LPGi neurons projecting to the IL. In urethane-anesthetized rats, the single-unit activities of LPGi neurons were recorded extracellularly to investigate their electrophysiological properties and responses to changes in blood pressure (BP). The LPGi neurons antidromically driven from the IL were restricted to the ventral part of the LPGi and most spontaneously active neurons revealed suppression of activity following a fall in BP. These results suggest that the LPGi neurons in a very restricted location influence the IL in response to changes in BP.
The congenitally helpless rat, selectively bred to model behavioral features of depression, has shown metabolic activity patterns in frontal and cingulate cortex similar to those detected in human imaging studies of depression and sadness. This study extends the same metabolic mapping technique (quantitative cytochrome oxidase histochemistry) to the hypothalamus, where activity levels were assessed in six nuclei: paraventricular nucleus, medial preoptic area, lateral hypothalamic area, supraoptic nucleus, suprachiasmatic nucleus, and ventromedial nucleus. Helpless rats were compared with a strain of non-helpless rats selectively bred for stress resistance. Only the paraventricular nucleus showed a significant group difference, with helpless rats showing elevated metabolism and non-helpless rats showing reduced metabolism relative to normal rats. Thus, paraventricular nucleus activity may be associated with genetic susceptibility to helpless behavior.
The nucleus lentiformis mesencephali (nLM) and the nucleus of the basal optic root (nBOR) in pigeons are both involved in optokinetic nystagmus. They are reciprocally connected and thus may interact with each other. The present study injected lidocaine into nLM and then examined the effects of nLM blockade on visual responses of nBOR neurons to target motion. The results indicate that nLM could modulate nBOR activity in two ways. First, nLM enhances visual responses of 70% of nBOR cells to motion in the preferred directions, sharpening their directional tuning. Second, nLM reduces visual responses of 13% of nBOR cells to motion in the preferred directions, broadening their directional tuning. The remaining 17% of nBOR cells are not affected by drug application. Taken together with the previous results that nBOR could modulate nLM activity (Gu et al., Neuroscience, 104 (2001) 153), it suggests that both nuclei can mutually modulate each other in generating optokinetic nystagmus.
Orphanin FQ (OFQ) and endomorphins (EM) are newly characterized members of opioid peptide family. OFQ has been shown to antagonize morphine analgesia at supraspinal level, whereas endomorphins are highly selective endogenous ligands for mu receptor, showing analgesic effect at both spinal and supraspinal level. OFQ and EM-2 (EM2) immunoreactivity (ir) was measured by radioimmunoassay in nociception-related brain areas of rats subjected to L5/L6 spinal nerve ligation, using sham operated rats as control. It was found that: (1) the content of EM2-ir of spinal nerve ligated rats showed a significant increase (778%) in periaqueductal gray (PAG), and a significant decrease (43%) in striatum, compared with the control group. (2) a significant increase of the content of OFQ-ir was found in amygdala (+841%) and PAG (+459%), respectively in spinal nerve ligated rats. High pressure liquid chromatography showed that the EM2-ir and OFQ-ir were both heterogeneous with the major part eluting at the position of EM2 and OFQ standard, respectively. These results suggest that spinal nerve ligation induces significant changes in the content of EM2-ir and OFQ-ir in some discrete brain areas, which may play a role in nociceptive modulation.

A few authors have described the clinical picture of dysthymia in groups of elderly patients and pointed out differences from literature reports of dysthymia in younger adults. The present study, an attempt to analyze age effects on clinical characteristics of dysthymia throughout a lifetime, was performed in a sample of 106 patients, all aged &gt; or =18 years, who were diagnosed according to DSM-IV. The patients were evaluated using: (1) a semistructured interview to assess clinical features, family history and previous treatments; (2) the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale; (3) the Interview for Recent Life Events; and (4) the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV Disorders. Statistical analysis with stepwise logistic regression revealed that age was positively related to concomitant medical illnesses and to the total score of recent life events, but negatively related to the presence of avoidant or dependent personality disorders. The data suggested different etiologic pathways in older and younger patients. Dysthymia appeared to be associated in younger adults with abnormalities of personality; in the elderly, with a history of health problems and life losses.
Long-chain alkanols are general anesthetics which can also act as uncharged noncompetitive inhibitors of the peripheral nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR) by binding to one or more specific sites on the AChR. Cembranoids are naturally occurring, uncharged noncompetitive inhibitors of peripheral and neuronal AChRs, which have no demonstrable general anesthetic activity in vivo. In this study, [3H]tenocyclidine ([3H]TCP), an analogue of the cationic noncompetitive inhibitor phencyclidine (PCP), was used to characterize the cembranoid and long-chain alkanol sites on the desensitized Torpedo californica AChR and to investigate if these sites interact. These studies confirm that there is a single cembranoid site which sterically overlaps the [3H]TCP channel site. This cembranoid site probably also overlaps the sites for the cationic noncompetitive inhibitors, procaine and quinacrine. Evidence is also presented for one or more allosteric cembranoid sites which negatively modulate cembranoid affinity for the inhibitory site. In contrast, long-chain alkanols inhibit [3H]TCP binding through an allosteric mechanism involving two or more alkanol sites which display positive cooperativity toward each other. Double inhibitor studies show that the cembranoid inhibitory site and the alkanol sites are not independent of each other but interfere allosterically with each other's inhibition of [3H]TCP binding. The simplest models consistent with the observed data are presented and discussed.
The location of visual objects in the world around us is reconstructed in a complex way from the image falling on the retina. Recent studies have begun to reveal the different ways in which the brain dynamically re-maps retinal information across eye movements to compute object locations for perception and directing actions.
Neuronal activity in area MT of the extrastriate visual cortex is correlated with the choices monkeys make on perceptual tasks. New evidence suggests that this correlation is stronger on some tasks than others.
Visual neurons may be optimized to produce sparse, distributed responses to natural scenes. This proposal, along with recent results from monkey fMRI and electrophysiology, may force us to re-interpret many neuroimaging results.

The structurally related cell adhesion molecules L1 and Nr-CAM have overlapping expression patterns in cerebellar granule cells. Here we analyzed their involvement in granule cell development using mutant mice. Nr-CAM-deficient cerebellar granule cells failed to extend neurites in vitro on contactin, a known ligand for Nr-CAM expressed in the cerebellum, confirming that these mice are functionally null for Nr-CAM. In vivo, Nr-CAM-null cerebella did not exhibit obvious histological defects, although a mild size reduction of several lobes was observed, most notably lobes IV and V in the vermis. Mice deficient for both L1 and Nr-CAM exhibited severe cerebellar folial defects and a reduction in the thickness of the inner granule cell layer. Additionally, anti-L1 antibodies specifically disrupted survival and maintenance of Nr-CAM-deficient granule cells in cerebellar cultures treated with antibodies. The combined results indicate that Nr-CAM and L1 play a role in cerebellar granule cell development, and suggest that closely related molecules in the L1 family have overlapping functions.
The present study used anterograde and retrograde tract tracing techniques to examine the organization of the medial preoptic-periaqueductal gray-nucleus paragigantocellularis pathway in the male rat. The location of neurons containing estrogen (alpha subtype; ER alpha) and androgen receptors (AR) were also examined. We report here that injection of the anterograde tracer biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) into the medial preoptic (MPO) produced dense labeling within the periaqueductal gray (PAG); anterogradely labeled fibers terminated in close juxtaposition to neurons retrogradely labeled from the nucleus paragigantocellularis (nPGi). Dual immunostaining for Fluoro-Gold (FG) and ER alpha or FG and AR showed that over one-third of MPO efferents to the PAG contain receptors for either estrogen or androgen. In addition, approximately 50% of PAG neurons retrogradely labeled from the nPGi were immunoreactive for either ER alpha or AR. These results are the first to establish an MPO--&gt;PAG--&gt;nPGi circuit and further indicate that gonadal steroids can influence neuronal synaptic activity within these sites. We reported previously that nPGi reticulospinal neurons terminate preferentially within the motoneuronal pools of the lumbosacral spinal cord that innervate the pelvic viscera. Together, we propose that the MPO--&gt;PAG--&gt;nPGi circuit forms the final common pathway whereby MPO neural output results in the initiation and maintenance of male copulatory reflexes.
There is accumulating evidence for rapid, non-genomic behavioral effects of various steroids including that of the glucocorticoid, corticosterone. Using an odor preference test, the responses of which are indicative of mate preferences and sexual interest, we examined the effects of acute corticosterone on the responses of oestrous female mice to male odors. Control female mice displayed an overwhelming preference for the odors of male mice. Peripheral administration of corticosterone elicited a significant dose-related (1.0-5.0 mg/kg) decrease in female preference for male odors at 10 min, but not at 60 min, after administration. These inhibitory effects of corticosterone on odor preferences were significantly reduced by the competitive NMDA antagonist, NPC 12626, and enhanced by the GABA antagonist bicuculline. This indicates that corticosterone has rapid inhibitory effects on olfactory mediated female mate preferences and responses to male odor that in part involve interactions with NMDA and GABA receptor mechanisms.
PEPA (4-[2-(Phenylsulphonylamino)ethylthio]-2,6-difluorophenoxyacetamide) is a recently developed allosteric potentiator of AMPA receptors that preferentially affects flop splice variants. We tested the effects of PEPA on ischemia-induced memory deficit in rats. Permanent unilateral occlusion of the middle cerebral artery induced severe impairment of performance of rats in the Morris water maze test. Repeated intravenous administration of PEPA (1, 3, 10 mg/kg/day for 10 days) improved test performance. In contrast, a corresponding dose of aniracetam, a representative potentiator of AMPA receptor, did not significantly improve test performance. Thus, PEPA is more effective than aniracetam in reversing impaired memory function as assessed by the Morris water maze test; and PEPA may be an effective compound for the treatment of impaired memory.
Utilizing rodent models, prior research has demonstrated a significant association between focal neocortical malformations (i.e. induced microgyria, molecular layer ectopias), which are histologically similar to those observed in human dyslexic brains, and rate-specific auditory processing deficits as seen in language impaired populations. In the current study, we found that ectopic NZB/BINJ mice exhibit significant impairments in detecting a variable duration 5.6 kHz tone embedded in a 10.5 kHz continuous background, using both acoustic reflex modification and auditory event-related potentials (AERP). The current results add further support to the association between focal cortical malformations and impaired auditory processing, and the notion that these auditory effects may occur regardless of the cortical location of the anomaly.
Epidemiological studies have shown that offspring of women who smoke during pregnancy have abnormal lung function and associated higher incidences of lower respiratory disorders. The recent identification of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChR) in fetal lung suggests that the direct interaction between nicotine and nAChR in fetal lung may underlie the postnatal pulmonary abnormalities seen in such infants. This hypothesis was tested in monkeys to determine if maternal nicotine exposure would produce changes in lung mechanics in newborn monkeys similar to those observed in human infants whose mothers smoked during pregnancy. Timed pregnant rhesus monkeys were infused with either nicotine (1.5 mg/kg/d, n = 7) or saline (n = 7) using subcutaneous osmotic pumps from Day 26 to 160 of gestation. On Day 160 of pregnancy (term = 165 d), fetuses were delivered by C-section, and the following day were subjected to pulmonary function testing. After testing, animals were sacrificed, and lungs weighed and fixed. Lung weight and fixed lung volume decreased (16% and 14%, respectively) significantly following in utero nicotine exposure. Peak tidal expiratory flow, FEV(0.2), mean mid-expiratory flow, forced expiratory volume at peak expiratory flow (FEV(PEF)), and FEV(PEF)/FVC% were significantly lower in newborns exposed to nicotine during gestation. Absolute and specific pulmonary resistance increased significantly whereas absolute and specific dynamic compliance remained unchanged in prenatally nicotine-treated pups. These changes in pulmonary function are strikingly similar to the changes observed in offspring of human smokers. This suggests that the interaction of nicotine with nAChR in developing lung is responsible for the altered pulmonary mechanics observed in human infants whose mothers smoked during pregnancy.
Oxidative stress has been associated with neuronal loss in neurodegenerative diseases and during age-associated cognitive decline. Flavonoids have been proposed to play a useful role in protecting the central nervous system against oxidative and excitotoxic stress, although the mechanism of action is unknown. Using oxidized low-density lipoprotein (oxLDL) as the oxidative insult we investigated the mechanism of neurotoxicity and attempted to identify possible sites of action of two of the most potent protective flavonoids, epicatechin and kaempferol, in cultured primary neurons. Using cultured striatal neurons and selective phosphospecific antibodies we addressed the potential role of extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1/2 (ERK1/2) and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK). OxLDL stimulated a Ca(2+)-dependent activation of both ERK1/2 and JNK that was strongly inhibited by pre-treatment with low micromolar concentrations of epicatechin. Neurotoxicity induced by oxLDL, however, was neither reduced nor enhanced by inhibiting ERK1/2 activation with mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK) inhibitors, suggesting that this cascade is unlikely to be involved in either oxLDL toxicity or the protective effects of flavonoids. oxLDL caused a sustained activation of JNK that resulted in the phosphorylation of the transcription factor c-Jun, which was abolished in neurons pre-treated with flavonoids. Furthermore, oxLDL induced the cleavage of procaspase-3 and increased caspase-3-like protease activity in neurons, an effect which was strongly inhibited by pre-exposure to either epicatechin or kaempferol. In addition, a caspase-3 inhibitor reduced oxLDL-induced neuronal death, implicating an apoptotic mechanism. A major in vivo metabolite of epicatechin, 3'-O-methyl-epicatechin was as effective as epicatechin in protecting neurons. Thus dietary flavonoids might have potential as protective agents against neuronal apoptosis through selective actions within stress-activated cellular responses, including protein kinase signalling cascades.




Behaviors associated with monogamy, including pair-bond formation, are facilitated by the neuropeptide vasopressin and are prevented by a vasopressin receptor [V1a receptor (V1aR)] antagonist in the male prairie vole. The neuroanatomical distribution of V1aR dramatically differs between monogamous and nonmonogamous species. V1aR binding is denser in the ventral pallidal region of several unrelated monogamous species compared with nonmonogamous species. Because the ventral pallidum is involved in reinforcement and addiction, we hypothesize that V1aR activation in this region promotes pair-bond formation via a mechanism similar to conditioning. Using an adeno-associated viral vector to deliver the V1aR gene, we increased the density of V1aR binding in the ventral pallial region of male prairie voles. These males exhibited increased levels of both anxiety and affiliative behavior compared with control males. In addition, males overexpressing the V1aR in the ventral pallidal region, but not control males, formed strong partner preferences after an overnight cohabitation, without mating, with a female. These data demonstrate a role for ventral pallidal V1aR in affiliation and social attachment and provide a potential molecular mechanism for species differences in social organization.
A complete suppression of muscle tone in the postural muscles and a reduction of muscle tone in the respiratory related musculature occur in rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. Previous studies have emphasized the role of glycine in generating these changes. Because the activity of norepinephrine- and serotonin-containing neurons is known to decrease in REM sleep, we hypothesized that a decrease in release in one or both of these transmitters might be detected at the motoneuronal level during muscle tone suppression elicited by brainstem stimulation in the decerebrate animal. We compared release in the ventral horn with that in the hypoglossal nucleus to determine whether the mechanism of muscle tone suppression differs in these nuclei as has been hypothesized. Electrical stimulation and cholinergic agonist injection into the mesopontine reticular formation produced a suppression of tone in the postural and respiratory muscles and simultaneously caused a significant reduction of norepinephrine and serotonin release of similar magnitude in both hypoglossal nucleus and spinal cord. Norepinephrine and serotonin release in the motoneuron pools was unchanged when the stimulation was applied to brainstem areas that did not generate bilateral suppression. No change in dopamine release in the motoneuron pools was seen during mesopontine stimulation-induced atonia. We hypothesize that the reduction of monoamine release that we observe exerts a disfacilitatory effect on both ventral horn and hypoglossal motoneurons and that this disfacilitatory mechanism contributes to the muscle atonia elicited in the decerebrate animal and in the intact animal during REM sleep.
The Unc-33-like phosphoprotein/collapsin response mediator protein (Ulip/CRMP) family consists of four homologous phosphoproteins considered crucial for brain development. Autoantibodies produced against member(s) of this family by patients with paraneoplastic neurological diseases have made it possible to clone a fifth human Ulip/CRMP and characterize its cellular and anatomical distribution in developing brain. This protein, referred to as Ulip6/CRMP5, is highly expressed during rat brain development in postmitotic neural precursors and in the fasciculi of fibers, suggesting its involvement in neuronal migration/differentiation and axonal growth. In the adult, Ulip6/CRMP5 is still expressed in some neurons, namely in areas that retain neurogenesis and in oligodendrocytes in the midbrain, hindbrain, and spinal cord. Ulip2/CRMP2 and Ulip6/CRMP5 are coexpressed in postmitotic neural precursors at certain times during development and in oligodendrocytes in the adult. Because Ulip2/CRMP2 has been reported to mediate semaphorin-3A (Sema3A) signal in developing neurons, in studies to understand the function of Ulip6/CRMP5 and Ulip2/CRMP2 in the adult, purified adult rat brain oligodendrocytes were cultured in a Sema3A-conditioned medium. Oligodendrocytes were found to have Sema3A binding sites and to express neuropilin-1, the major Sema3A receptor component. In the presence of Sema3A, these oligodendrocytes displayed a dramatic reduction in process extension, which was reversed by removal of Sema3A and prevented by anti-neuropilin-1, anti-Ulip6/CRMP5, anti-Ulip2/CRMP2 antibodies, or VEGF-165, another neuropilin-1 ligand. These results indicate the existence in the adult brain of a Sema3A signaling pathway that modulates oligodendrocyte process extension mediated by neuropilin-1, Ulip6/CRMP5, and Ulip2/CRMP2, and they open new fields of investigation of neuron/oligodendrocyte interactions in the normal and pathological brain.
Conditioning injury to adult mammalian sensory neurons enhances their regeneration potential. Here we show that leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) is a fundamental component of the conditioning response. Conditioning injury in vivo significantly increases the intrinsic growth capacity of sensory neurons in vitro from LIF+/+ mice. This conditioning effect is significantly blunted in sensory neurons from LIF-/- mice. Enhanced growth is rescued in vitro in LIF-/- mice by the addition of exogenous LIF, and the effect blocked by human LIF-05, an LIF receptor antagonist. Furthermore, we demonstrate that LIF promotes elongating but not arborizing neurite outgrowth in vitro and is required for normal regeneration of injured adult sensory neurons in vivo. LIF is also functionally protective to peptidergic sensory neurons after nerve damage in vivo. Our results indicate that the alteration in intrinsic growth status of injured sensory neurons depends, at least in part, on LIF.
Leukocyte infiltration in the CNS after trauma or inflammation is triggered in part by upregulation of the chemokine, monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1), in astrocytes. However the signals that induce the upregulation of MCP-1 in astrocytes are unknown. We have investigated the roles for ATP P2X7 receptor activation because ATP is an intercellular signaling transmitter that is released in both trauma and inflammation and P2X7 receptors are involved in immune system signaling. Astrocytes in primary cell culture and acutely isolated from the hippocampus were immunopositive for P2X7 receptors. In astrocyte cultures, application of the selective P2X7 agonist, benzoyl-benzoyl ATP (Bz-ATP), activated MAP kinases extracellular signal receptor-activated kinase 1 (ERK1), ERK2, and p38. Purinergic antagonists depressed this activation with a profile suggesting P2X7 receptors. Bz-ATP also increased MCP-1 expression in cultured astrocytes, and again P2X7 antagonists prevented this increase. Blocking either the ERK1/ERK2 or the p38 pathway (with PD98059 or SB203580, respectively) significantly inhibited Bz-ATP-induced MCP-1 expression. Coapplication of both antagonists caused a greater depression. We also tested the roles for ATP receptor activation in inducing MCP-1 upregulation in corticectomy, an in vivo model of trauma. This model of cortical trauma was previously shown to increase MCP-1 expression in vivo principally in astrocytes. Suramin, a wide-spectrum purinergic receptor antagonist, significantly depressed the rapid (3 hr) trauma-induced increase in MCP-1 mRNA. These data indicate that purinergic transmitter receptors in astrocytes are important in regulating chemokine synthesis. The regulation of MCP-1 in astrocytes by ATP may be important in mediating communication with hematopoietic inflammatory cells.
The retinoblastoma tumor suppressor protein, pRb, is a key regulator of cell cycle and has been implicated in the terminal differentiation of neuronal cells. Mice nullizygous for pRb die by embryonic day 14.5 from hematopoietic and neurological defects attributed to failed differentiation (Clarke et al., 1992; Jacks et al., 1992; Lee et al., 1992). Previous studies by MacLeod et al. (1996) have demonstrated that the loss of p53 protects Rb-deficient CNS neurons but not peripheral nervous system (PNS) neurons from cell death. Thus, the mechanisms by which PNS neurons undergo apoptosis in response to Rb deficiency remain unknown. In view of the pivotal role of caspase 3 in the regulation of neuronal apoptosis during development, we examined its function in the execution of the wide-spread neuronal cell death induced by Rb deficiency. Our results support a number of conclusions. First, we show that caspase 3 becomes activated in all neuronal populations undergoing apoptosis. Second, caspase 3 deficiency does not extend the life span of Rb null embryos, because double null mutants exhibit high rates of liver apoptosis resulting in erythropoietic failure. Third, Rb/caspase 3 double-mutant neurons of the CNS exhibit widespread apoptosis similar to that seen in Rb mutants alone; thus caspase 3 deficiency does not protect this population from apoptosis. Finally, in contrast to the CNS, neurons of the PNS including those comprising the trigeminal ganglia and the dorsal root ganglia are protected from apoptosis in Rb/caspase 3 double-mutant embryos. Examination of the mechanistic differences between these two cell types suggest that CNS neurons may invoke other caspases to facilitate apoptosis in the absence of caspase 3. These findings suggest that PNS neurons are dependent on caspase 3 for the execution of apoptosis and that caspase 3 may serve as a key therapeutic target for neuroprotection after injury of this cell type.
In peripheral nerves, Schwann cells (SCs) form contacts with axons, other SCs, and extracellular matrix components that are critical for their migration, differentiation, and response to injury. Here, we report that lysophosphatidic acid (LPA), an extracellular signaling phospholipid, regulates the morphology and adhesion of cultured SCs. Treatment with LPA induces f-actin rearrangements resulting in a &quot;wreath&quot;-like structure, with actin loops bundled peripherally by short orthogonal filaments. The latter appear to anchor the SC to a laminin substrate, because they colocalize with the focal adhesion proteins, paxillin and vinculin. SCs also respond to LPA treatment by forming extensive cell-cell junctions containing N-cadherin, resulting in cell clustering. Pharmacological blocking experiments indicate that LPA-induced actin rearrangements and focal adhesion assembly involve Rho pathway activation via a pertussis toxin-insensitive G-protein. The transcript encoding LP(A1), the canonical G-protein-coupled receptor for LPA, is upregulated after sciatic nerve transection, and SCs cultured from lp(A1)-null mice exhibit greatly diminished morphological responses to LPA. Cultured SCs can release an LPA-like factor implicating SCs as a potential source of endogenous, signaling LPA. These data, together with the previous demonstration of LPA-mediated SC survival, implicate endogenous receptor-mediated LPA signaling in the control of SC development and function.
Interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) is a proinflammatory cytokine associated with the pathophysiology of demyelinating disorders such as multiple sclerosis and viral infections of the CNS. However, we demonstrate here that IL-1beta appears to promote remyelination in the adult CNS. In IL-1beta(-/-) mice, acute demyelination progressed similarly to wild-type mice and showed parallel mature oligodendrocyte depletion, microglia-macrophage accumulation, and the appearance of oligodendrocyte precursors. In contrast, IL-1beta(-/-) mice failed to remyelinate properly, and this appeared to correlate with a lack of insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) production by microglia-macrophages and astrocytes and to a profound delay of precursors to differentiate into mature oligodendrocytes. Thus, IL-1beta may be crucial to the repair of the CNS, presumably through the induction of astrocyte and microglia-macrophage-derived IGF-1.
Serine proteases in the adult CNS contribute both to activity-dependent structural changes accompanying learning and to the regulation of excitotoxic cell death. Brain serine protease 1 (BSP1)/neuropsin is a trypsin-like serine protease exclusively expressed, within the CNS, in the hippocampus and associated limbic structures. To explore the role of this enzyme, we have used gene targeting to disrupt this gene in mice. Mutant mice were viable and overtly normal; they displayed normal hippocampal long-term synaptic potentiation (LTP) and exhibited no deficits in spatial navigation (water maze). Nevertheless, electrophysiological studies revealed that the hippocampus of mice lacking this specifically expressed protease possessed an increased susceptibility for hyperexcitability (polyspiking) in response to repetitive afferent stimulation. Furthermore, seizure activity on kainic acid administration was markedly increased in mutant mice and was accompanied by heightened immediate early gene (c-fos) expression throughout the brain. In view of the regional selectivity of BSP1/neuropsin brain expression, the observed phenotype may selectively reflect limbic function, further implicating the hippocampus and amygdala in controlling cortical activation. Within the hippocampus, our data suggest that BSP1/neuropsin, unlike other serine proteases, has little effect on physiological synaptic remodeling and instead plays a role in limiting neuronal hyperexcitability induced by epileptogenic insult.
1. In keeping with the 'muscular wisdom hypothesis', many studies have documented that the firing rate of the majority of motor units decreased during fatiguing isometric contractions. The present study investigated whether the application of periodic muscle vibration, which strongly activates muscle spindles, would alter the modulation of motor unit firing rate during submaximal fatiguing isometric contractions. 2. Thirty-three motor units from the lateral head of the triceps brachii muscle were recorded from 10 subjects during a sustained isometric 20 % maximal voluntary contraction (MVC) of the elbow extensors. Vibration was interposed on the contraction for 2 s every 10 s. Twenty-two motor units were recorded from the beginning of the fatigue task. The discharge rate of the majority of motor units remained constant (12/22) or increased (4/22) with fatigue. Six motor units demonstrated a reduction in discharge rate that later returned toward initial values; these motor units had higher initial discharge rates than the other 16 motor units. 3. In a second series of experiments, four subjects held a sustained isometric 20 % MVC for 2 min and then vibration was applied as above for the remainder of the contraction. In this case, motor units initially demonstrated a decrease in firing rate that increased after the vibration was applied. Thus muscle spindle disfacilitation of the motoneurone pool may be associated with the decline of motor unit discharge rate observed during the first 2 min of the contraction. 4. In a third set of experiments, seven subjects performed the main experiment on one occasion and repeated the fatigue task without vibration on a second occasion. Neither the endurance time of the fatiguing contraction nor the MVC torque following fatigue was affected by the application of vibration. This finding calls into question the applicability of the muscular wisdom hypothesis to submaximal contractions.
Zebra finches have emerged as an outstanding model system for the investigation of the mechanisms regulating brain and behavior. Their song system has proven especially useful, as the function of discrete anatomical regions have been identified, and striking parallels exist between the morphology of these regions and the level of their function in males and females. That is, the structures are substantially more developed in males, who sing, compared to females, who do not. These parallels extend from higher (telencephalic) centers to the brainstem motor nucleus that innervates the muscles of the vocal organ. Other dimorphic aspects of reproduction in the zebra finch, such as copulatory behaviors and sexual partner preference, however, are not associated with known sex differences in anatomy. In many species, sex differences in neural and peripheral structures and behavior are regulated by secretions from the gonads, which of course are sexually dimorphic themselves. In birds, sex differences at all of these levels (gonad, brain, and behavior) can be mediated by steroid hormones. However, it is not entirely clear that gonadal secretions normally participate at all of the levels. This paper reviews the evidence relating to the role of gonadal steroids in the sexual differentiation of reproductive behaviors and the central and peripheral structures known to regulate them in zebra finches, with a focus on estradiol, which has been most extensively studied in the masculinization of song system morphology and function.
Opiate-evoked reward and motivated behaviors reflect, in part, the enhanced release of dopamine produced by activation of the mu-opioid receptor (muOR) in the ventral tegmental area (VTA). We examined the functional sites for muOR activation and potential interactions with dopaminergic neurons within the rat VTA by using electron microscopy for the immunocytochemical localization of antipeptide antisera raised against muOR and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), the synthesizing enzyme for catecholamines. The cellular and subcellular distribution of muOR was remarkably similar in the two major VTA subdivisions, the paranigral (VTApn) and parabrachial (VTApb) nuclei. In each region, somatodendritic profiles comprised over 50% of the labeled structures. MuOR immunolabeling was often seen at extrasynaptic/perisynaptic sites on dendritic plasma membranes, and 10% of these dendrites contained TH. MuOR-immunoreactivity was also localized to plasma membranes of axon terminals and small unmyelinated axons, none of which contained TH. The muOR-immunoreactive axon terminals formed either symmetric or asymmetric synapses that are typically associated with inhibitory and excitatory amino acid transmitters. Their targets included unlabeled (30%), muOR-labeled (25%), and TH-labeled (45%) dendrites. Our results suggest that muOR agonists in the VTA affect dopaminergic transmission mainly indirectly through changes in the postsynaptic responsivity and/or presynaptic release from neurons containing other neurotransmitters. They also indicate, however, that muOR agonists directly affect a small population of dopaminergic neurons expressing muOR on their dendrites in VTA and/or terminals in target regions.
The topography of forelimb movement representations within the rat motor cortex was examined following forelimb strength training. Adult male rats were allocated to either a Power Reaching, Control Reaching or Non-Reaching Condition. Power Reaching rats were trained to grasp and break progressively larger bundles of dried pasta strands with their preferred forelimb. Control Reaching animals were trained to break a single pasta strand and Non-Reaching animals were not trained. Power Reaching animals exhibited a progressive increase in the maximal size of the pasta bundle that could be retrieved during a 30-day training period. Kinematic analyses showed that this improvement was not due to a change in reaching strategy. Intracortical microelectrode stimulation was used to derive maps of forelimb movement representations within the motor cortex of all animals following training. In comparison to Non-Reaching animals, both Power Reaching and Control Reaching animals exhibited a significant increase in the proportion of motor cortex occupied by distal forelimb movement representations (wrist/digit) and a decrease in the proportion of proximal representations (elbow/shoulder). These results demonstrate that the development of skilled forelimb movements, but not increased forelimb strength, was associated with a reorganization of forelimb movement representations within motor cortex.
RGS8 was originally identified as an RGS protein specifically expressed in neuronally differentiated P19 cells. We generated a polyclonal antibody specific to rat RGS8 using a synthetic peptide. When nonneural cells (DDT1MF2, CHO, and NIH3T3) transfected with rat RGS8 cDNA were immuno-stained with this antibody, the RGS8 protein was mainly detected in the nuclei. Since RGS8 mRNA was exclusively expressed in Purkinje cells of the cerebellum in the rat brain, we further examined the cellular distribution of the RGS8 protein in Purkinje cells using cultured cerebellar cells and tissue sections of the cerebellum. The RGS8 protein was excluded from the nuclei and distributed in the cell body and dendrites, but not in the axons of Purkinje cells. These results demonstrate the presence of a mechanism controlling the distribution of RGS8 protein in cerebellar Purkinje cells.
Neurons containing the peptide hypocretin, also known as orexin, were recently implicated in the human sleep disorder narcolepsy. Hypocretin neurons are located only in the lateral hypothalamus from where they innervate virtually the entire brain and spinal cord. This peptide is believed to be involved in regulating feeding and wakefulness. However, to fully understand what other behaviors are regulated by this peptide it is necessary to investigate each hypocretin target site. In the present study, we focus on one hypocretin target site, the medial septum, where there is a dense collection of hypocretin-2 receptor-containing cells, and degenerating axons are present here in canines with narcolepsy [J. Neurosci. 19 (1999) 248]. We utilize a saporin toxin conjugated to the hypocretin receptor binding ligand, hypocretin-2, and find that when this toxin is injected into the medial septum, it lesions the parvalbumin and cholinergic neurons. We contrast the effects of the hypocretin-saporin with another saporin conjugated toxin, 192 IgG-saporin, that lesions only the cholinergic neurons in the basal forebrain. 192 IgG-saporin reduced theta activity, a finding consistent with previous reports [J. Neurophysiol. 79 (1998) 1633; Neurodegeneration 4 (1995) 61; Neuroscience 62 (1994) 1033]. However, hypocretin-saporin completely eliminated hippocampal theta activity by day 12, indicating that parvalbumin-containing cells in the medial septum generate theta. The daily amount of sleep and wakefulness were not different between hypocretin-saporin, 192 IgG-saporin, or saline-treated rats. The homeostatic response to 12 h prolonged wakefulness was also not affected in hypocretin-saporin lesioned rats. These findings suggest that hypocretin neurons could facilitate theta generation during episodes of purposeful behavior by activating GABAergic neurons in the MS/VDB. In this way, hypocretin, which is implicated in feeding, energy metabolism and wakefulness, serves to influence cognitive processes critical for the animal's survival.
The mechanisms governing the regeneration of denervated peripheral mechanoreceptors are similar to those of peripheral nerves. The ability to regenerate depends partly on changes of the Schwann cell phenotype. The transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta) family have been implicated in induction of Schwann cell proliferation, production of extracellular matrix and neurotrophin synthesis as well as synthesis or repression of cell adhesion molecules. Hence, they may prove to be of importance for regenerative mechanisms in peripheral mechanoreceptors. The distribution of TGF-beta, the receptors I and II and intra-cellular second messengers, Smad 2/3 and 4 was assessed in sensory neurones, peripheral nerves and mechanoreceptors by immuno-histochemistry, immuno-electron microscopy and in situ hybridisation. TGF-beta2 mRNA and TGF-beta2-like immunoreactivity (IR) were expressed in injured small and medium sized rat sensory neurones of dorsal root ganglia. TGF-beta and receptor II mRNA and immunoreactivities (IR) were present in satellite cells. Intact and injured sensory neurones expressed receptor I mRNA and Smad 2 mRNA. TGF-beta2 mRNA was found in transected nerve stumps and in sensory mechanoreceptors. TGF-beta1, 2 and Smad 4 were also observed in inner core lamellar cells of intact and denervated cat Pacinian corpuscles. Lamellar cells of intact and denervated Meissner corpuscles were TGF-beta immunoreactive. Merkel cells were receptors I and II immunoreactive. In conclusion, cutaneous and subcutaneous mechanoreceptors differ with regard to the expression of TGF-beta isoforms and receptors.
Spinal hemisection injury at T13 results in development of permanent mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia due to interruption and subsequent loss of descending inhibitory modulators such as serotonin (5-HT) and its transporter (5-HT(T)). We hypothesize that lumbar transplantation of non-mitotic cells that tonically secrete 5-HT and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) will restore alterations in 5-HT and 5-HT(T) systems within the spinal dorsal horn. We used an immortalized rat neuronal cell line derived from E13 raphe (RN46A-B14) which is shown to secrete 5-HT and BDNF in vitro and in vivo. Three groups (n=35) of 30 day old male Sprague-Dawley rats were spinally hemisected at T13 and 28 days later received either lumbar RN46A-V1 control empty-vector (n=15) or RN46A-B14 (n=15) intrathecal grafts, or no transplant. Twenty-eight days following transplantation, animals were perfused and tissue examined for changes in 5-HT, 5-HT(T), and BDNF at the site of transplantation or at lumbar enlargements (L5). Immunohistochemistry revealed that RN46A-B14, but not RN46A-V1 cells, increased 5-HT tissue staining at L5 in the dorsal white matter as well as in superficial dorsal horn laminae I and II on both ipsilateral and contralateral sides, results confirmed by ELISA. Transplantation of RN46A-B14 cells significantly reduced ipsilateral 5-HT(T), upregulated after injury. Significantly increased levels of BDNF were also observed after RN46A-B14 transplantation but were not localized to particular spinal laminae. These results are consistent with recovery of locomotor function and reductions in chronic pain behaviors observed behaviorally after RN46A-B14 transplantation and supports the pragmatic application of cell-based therapies in correcting damaged circuitry after spinal cord injury.
Several lines of evidence indicate that Group I metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) 1alpha receptors are involved in the processing of nociceptive information in the spinal cord. The goals of the present study are to document the role of mGlu1alpha receptors in peripheral nociception. To accomplish this we investigate the presence of mGlu1alpha receptors on peripheral primary afferent fibers and determine the behavioral effects of (S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (S-DHPG), which is an mGlu1/5 receptor agonist and (RS)-1-aminoindan-1, 5-dicarboxylic acid (AIDA), a selective mGluR1alpha antagonist, on mechanical and thermal sensitivity and formalin-induced nociceptive behaviors. The anatomical studies at the electron microscopic level demonstrate that 32.4+/-2.9% of the unmyelinated axons and 21.6+/-4.7% of the myelinated axons are positively immunostained for mGlu1alpha receptors. Intraplantar injection of 0.1 or 1 mM S-DHPG results in a significant increase in mechanical sensitivity that persists for more than 60 min and this effect is blocked by co-injection of S-DHPG with 1 mM AIDA. Intraplantar injection of 40 microM AIDA+2% formalin significantly attenuates phase 2 lifting/licking and flinching behavior and this AIDA-induced effect is blocked with co-injection of 1 microM S-DHPG. In behavioral tests, intraplantar S-DHPG (0.1, 1.0, 10 mM) does not change tail flick latencies or paw withdrawal latencies to heat stimulation. These data indicate that mGlu1alpha receptors are present on peripheral cutaneous axons and activation of peripheral mGlu1alpha receptors contributes to mechanical allodynia and inflammatory pain but not thermal hyperalgesia.
Assembly of the amyloid beta-protein (Abeta) into neurotoxic oligomers and fibrils is a seminal event in Alzheimer's disease. Understanding the earliest phases of Abeta assembly, including prenucleation and nucleation, is essential for the development of rational therapeutic strategies. We have applied a powerful new method, photoinduced cross-linking of unmodified proteins (PICUP), to the study of Abeta oligomerization. Significant advantages of this method include an extremely short reaction time, enabling the identification and quantification of short lived metastable assemblies, and the fact that no pre facto structural modification of the native peptide is required. Using PICUP, the distribution of Abeta oligomers existing prior to assembly was defined. A rapid equilibrium was observed involving monomer, dimer, trimer, and tetramer. A similar distribution was seen in studies of an unrelated amyloidogenic peptide, whereas nonamyloidogenic peptides yielded distributions indicative of a lack of monomer preassociation. These results suggest that simple nucleation-dependent polymerization models are insufficient to describe the dynamic equilibria associated with prenucleation phases of Abeta assembly.
The long-standing rationalist tradition in moral psychology emphasizes the role of reason in moral judgment. A more recent trend places increased emphasis on emotion. Although both reason and emotion are likely to play important roles in moral judgment, relatively little is known about their neural correlates, the nature of their interaction, and the factors that modulate their respective behavioral influences in the context of moral judgment. In two functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies using moral dilemmas as probes, we apply the methods of cognitive neuroscience to the study of moral judgment. We argue that moral dilemmas vary systematically in the extent to which they engage emotional processing and that these variations in emotional engagement influence moral judgment. These results may shed light on some puzzling patterns in moral judgment observed by contemporary philosophers.

Using event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging, we investigated the role of medial temporal regions during active maintenance of information over short delays or working memory. In experiment 1, we observed sustained bilateral hippocampal activation during maintenance of novel faces across a short delay period but not during face encoding or recognition. In contrast, we observed transient right parahippocampal activation during encoding and recognition but not during maintenance. We replicated these findings in experiment 2 and further determined that anterior hippocampal activation was greater during maintenance of novel than familiar faces. Our results reveal the importance of medial temporal lobe regions for the active maintenance of novel information in the absence of perceptual stimulation.
In order to attain a correct interpretation of an ambiguous visual stimulus, the brain may have to elaborate on the sensory evidence. Are the neurons that carry the sensory evidence also involved in generating an interpretation? To address this question, we studied the activity of neurons in the primary visual cortex of macaque monkeys involved in a task in which they have to trace a curve mentally, without moving their eyes. On a percentage of trials, the monkeys made errors and traced the wrong curve. Here, we show that these errors are predicted by activity in area V1. Thus, neurons in the primary visual cortex do not only represent sensory events, but also the way in which they are interpreted by the monkey.
We provide evidence here of long-term synaptic plasticity in a songbird forebrain area required for song learning, the lateral magnocellular nucleus of the anterior neostriatum (LMAN). Pairing postsynaptic bursts in LMAN principal neurons with stimulation of recurrent collateral synapses had two effects: spike timing- and NMDA receptor-dependent LTP of the recurrent synapses, and LTD of thalamic afferent synapses that were stimulated out of phase with the postsynaptic bursting. Both types of plasticity were restricted to the sensory critical period for song learning, consistent with a role for each in sensory learning. The properties of the observed plasticity are appropriate to establish recurrent circuitry within LMAN that reflects the spatiotemporal pattern of thalamic afferent activity evoked by tutor song. Such circuit organization could represent a tutor song memory suitable for reinforcing particular vocal sequences during sensorimotor learning.
Studies of the signal transduction mechanisms underlying learning and memory have provided many new insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying associative conditioning in mammals. In this issue of Neuron, Gean and colleagues report the discovery that the PI-3 kinase/AKT(PKB) pathway contributes to LTP and the consolidation of amygdala-dependent cued fear conditioning in rats.
In a paper by Schmitz and colleagues in this issue of Neuron, new evidence for the existence of gap junctions between pyramidal cell axons uncovers a mechanism for fast neural communication in the hippocampus. Electrical coupling between axons may be crucial during fast oscillations, which have been proposed to mediate memory consolidation.
The ligand-binding domain (LBD) of the human androgen receptor (hAR LBD), encompassing amino acids (AAs) 647-919, was expressed in Escherichia coli with an N-terminal polyhistidine tag (His(10)-hAR LBD) from a pET-16b vector. The overexpressed protein was initially insoluble in inclusion bodies, and was subsequently solubilized in 8 M guanidine hydrochloride (GdnHCl). The solubilized His(10)-hAR LBD was purified to apparent homogeneity by metal ion affinity chromatography in the presence of 6 M GdnHCl. The isolated protein migrated as a single band in sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) with an apparent molecular mass of 33-34 kDa, as expected from the plasmid construct. Immunoblot analysis with C-terminal antibodies raised against a peptide corresponding to the last 19 AAs (AAs 901-919) of hAR revealed that the purified protein contained an immunoreactive epitope present within the AR and was of the appropriate size. Further characterization, using matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI/TOF-MS), showed a single protein species of average mass 34 580 Da, confirming the size and purity of the purified His(10)-hAR LBD. Detailed tryptic peptide mapping analysis, using MALDI/TOF-MS, identified a total of eight peptides with a 30% coverage of the LBD, including the last tryptic peptide in the hAR sequence. These data confirm that the purified protein was the intact hAR LBD. AA sequencing of these tryptic peptides, using an HPLC-coupled electrospray ionization ion trap mass spectrometer (LC/ESI-ITMS and MS/MS), unambiguously confirmed that the peptides were from the hAR LBD. The purified His(10)-hAR LBD in 6 M GdnHCl could be renatured as determined by ligand-binding activity, with a similar equilibrium dissociation constant (K(d)) for [(3)H]-mibolerone and a similar steroid specificity to the AR isolated from rat ventral prostate.
The authors report the clinical and molecular findings in eight patients with hyperornithinemia, hyperammonemia, and homocitrullinuria (HHH) syndrome. The most consistent neurologic finding was spastic paraparesis, seen in five of the eight patients. However, all showed signs of pyramidal tract involvement. A broad spectrum of pathogenetic mutations (including missense, nonsense, splice site, insertion, and deletions) were identified in the ORNT1 gene.
Lysosomal glycogen storage disease with normal acid maltase (Danon) is caused by primary lysosome-associated membrane protein-2 (LAMP-2) deficiency. Typically, the disease begins after the first decade; however, two infantile patients had similar histologic features. The infantile disorder is distinct from Danon disease, because, in both infants, LAMP-2 protein is present in skeletal muscle. Deposition of C5b-9 and multilayered basal lamina in one patient suggest that the infantile disease is pathogenically similar to X-linked myopathy with excessive autophagy.

We demonstrate that the antimalarial drug quinine specifically reduces currents through gap junctions formed by some connexins (Cx) in transfected mammalian cells, but does not affect other gap junction types. Quinine blocked Cx36 and Cx50 junctional currents in a reversible and concentration-dependent manner with half maximal blocking concentrations of 32 and 73 microM, respectively; Hill coefficients for block by quinine were about 2 for both connexins. In contrast, quinine did not substantially block gap junction channels formed by Cx26, Cx32, Cx40, and Cx43, and only moderately affected Cx45 junctions. To determine the location of the binding site of quinine (pKa = 8.7), we investigated the effect of quinine at various external and internal pH values and the effect of a permanently charged quaternary derivative of quinine. Our results indicate that the binding site for quinine is intracellular, possibly within the pore. Single-channel studies indicated that exposure to quinine induced slow transitions between open and fully closed states that decreased open probability of the channel. Quinine thus offers a potentially useful method to block certain types of gap junction channels, including those between neurons that are formed by Cx36. Moreover, quinine derivatives that are excluded from other types of membrane channels may provide molecules with connexin-specific as well as connexin-selective blocking activity.
Co-application of SKF-38393 (dopamine D(1) agonist; 1 mg/kg) and DOI (serotonin(2) agonist; 1 mg/kg) induced a synergistic increase in striatal preprotachykinin (PPT) mRNA levels in adult rats 60 days after neonatal intracerebroventricular injection of 6-hydroxydopamine. This magnitude of response was not observed in intact (vehicle-injected) rats and was restricted to the dorsomedial (DM, 333+/-25% of lesion) subregion of the anterior striatum, with smaller increases observed in the dorsolateral striatum (DL, 206+/-26% of lesion). A single i.p. injection of MK-801 (NMDA antagonist; 0.1 mg/kg) administered prior to dopamine D(1) (D(1)) and serotonin(2) (5-HT(2)) receptor co-stimulation suppressed the synergistic regulation of PPT mRNA expression in the DM striatum, but also produced a large increase in PPT message levels within the DL striatum (321+/-17% of lesion). These data suggest that the synergistic regulation of PPT mRNA within the DM striatum induced by D(1)/5-HT(2) receptor co-stimulation in the dopamine lesioned rat is dependent on NMDA receptor activity. However, MK-801 may simultaneously potentiate striatal PPT mRNA expression by a separate mechanism due to the changed environment of the dopamine-depleted basal ganglia.
Receptor activity modifying proteins (RAMPs) comprise a family of accessory proteins for G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). They function as receptor modulators that determine the ligand specificity of receptors for calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), amylin and adrenomedullin (ADM). Here we demonstrate for the first time the characteristic distributions of the RAMP family mRNAs in the brain. Northern blot analysis revealed that mRAMP 1 and 3 mRNAs were intensely expressed in the brain, but mRAMP2 mRNA less abundantly. In situ hybridization studies showed the heterogenous and unique distributions of mRAMP mRNAs; RAMP1 mRNA was widely expressed throughout the brain including the cerebral cortex, caudate putamen, amygdaloid complex, hippocampus, cerebellum and ependyma, mRAMP2 was most abundant in the hippocampus, cerebellum, pia mater and blood vessels, while mRAMP3 was specifically distributed in a variety of thalamic nuclei and the cerebellum. In addition, RAMP1 and -3 genes were also detected in the subfornical organ and area postrema, which are members of circumventricular organs lacking blood-brain barrier. The present results help in understanding the diversification and regulation of receptor functions for calcitonin family peptides, and potentially other GPCRs in the brain.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the role that kappa opioid receptor stimulation has upon stimulant-induced behavior and neuropeptide gene expression in the striatum. Acute administration of amphetamine (2.5 mg/kg i.p.) caused an increase in behavioral activity and preprodynorphin, substance P, and preproenkephalin mRNA expression. When amphetamine-treated rats were pretreated with U69593, a kappa agonist (0.16 or 0.32 mg/kg s.c.), there was a significant decrease in behavioral activity. Quantitative in situ hybridization histochemistry revealed that 0.32 mg/kg U69593 significantly decreased amphetamine-induced mRNA expression of all three neuropeptides; however, only the induction of preproenkephalin mRNA was decreased by 0.16 mg/kg. These data suggest that stimulation of kappa receptors decreases acute amphetamine-induced behavior and mRNA expression of neuropeptides in the rat striatum.

The nucleus incertus (NI) is a distinct cell group in caudoventral regions of the pontine periventricular gray, adjacent to the ventromedial border of the caudal dorsal tegmental nucleus. Recent interest in the NI stems from evidence that it represents one of the periventricular sites with the highest expression levels of mRNA encoding the type 1 corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) receptor, which has a high affinity for naturally occurring CRH, perhaps accounting for some of the extrapituitary actions of the peptide on autonomic and behavioral components of the stress response. However, almost nothing is known about NI function and hodological relationships. In this paper, we present the results of a systematic analysis of NI inputs and outputs using cholera toxin B subunit as a retrograde tracer and Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin as an anterograde tracer. Our retrograde tracer experiments indicate that the NI is in a strategic position to integrate information related to behavioral planning (from the prefrontal cortex), lateral habenular processing, hippocampal function, and oculomotor control. Based on its efferent connections, the NI is in a position to exert significant modulating influences on prefrontal and hippocampal cortical activity, and the nucleus is also in a position to influence brain sites known to control locomotor behavior, attentive states, and learning processes. Overall, the present results support the idea that the NI is a distinct region of the pontine periventricular gray, and together with the superior central (median raph) and interpeduncular nuclei the NI appears to form a midline behavior control network of the brainstem.
Axonal markers injected into layers 5 and 6 of cortical areas 17, 18, or 19 labeled axons going to the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN), the lateral part of the lateralis posterior nucleus (LPl), and pulvinar (P). Area 19 sends fine axons (type 1, Guillery [1966] J Comp Neurol 128:21-50) to LGN, LPl, and P, and thicker, type 2 axons to LPl and P. Areas 17 and 18 send type 1 axons to LGN, and a few type 1, but mainly type 2 axons to LPl and P. Type 1 and 2 axons from a single small cortical locus distribute to distinct, generally nonoverlapping parts of LP and P; type 1 axons have a broader distribution than type 2 axons. Type 2 axons, putative drivers of thalamic relay cells (Sherman and Guillery [1998] Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 95:7121-7126; Sherman and Guillery [2001] Exploring the thalamus. San Diego: Academic Press), supply small terminal arbors (100- to 200-microm diameter) in LPl and P, and then continue into the midbrain. Each thalamic type 2 arbor contains two terminal types. One, at the center of the arbor, is complex and multilobulated; the other, with a more peripheral distribution, is simpler and may contribute to adjacent arbors. Type 2 arbors from a single injection are scattered around and along &quot;isocortical columns&quot; in LPl, (i.e., columns that represent cells having connections to a common cortical locus). Evidence is presented that the connections and consequently the functional properties of cells in LP change along these isocortical columns. Type 2 driver afferents from a single cortical locus can, thus, be seen as representing functionally distinct, parallel pathways from cortex to thalamus.
G protein-coupled kinase 2 (GRK2) has a key role in regulating signaling activities of a variety of G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). Several recent studies have directly implicated GRK2 phosphorylation in desensitization of GPCRs. In addition, binding by G(betagamma) or phosphorylation by PKC or c-Src [corrected] has been shown to activate or enhance GRK2 activity, respectively. Conversely, the calcium binding protein calmodulin or the serine/threonine kinase ERK has been implicated in inhibiting GRK2 activity. However, with the exception of a recent report indicating that activation of beta2-adrenergic receptor results in the ubiquitination and rapid degradation of GRK2, very little is known about cellular mechanisms that alter the protein levels of GRK2 [corrected]. Here, we report a novel serendipitous observation regarding alteration of GRK2 [corrected] protein levels. Exposure of CHO cells stably expressing the m1 muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (mAChR) to transient hypoxia caused near ablation of the GRK2 protein. In contrast, GRK2 protein levels remained unchanged in the parental CHO cells or in CHO cells stably expressing the m2 mAChR when exposed to transient hypoxia. The present study reports a novel observation that is unveiled by transient hypoxia in which GRK2 protein levels are altered by cellular mechanisms involving the m1 mAChR.
We report functional differences between tau isoforms with 3 or 4 C-terminal repeats and a difference in susceptibility to oxidative conditions, with respect to the regulation of microtubule dynamics in vitro and tau-microtubule binding in cultured cells. In the presence of dithiothreitol in vitro, a 3-repeat tau isoform promotes microtubule nucleation, reduces the tubulin critical concentration for microtubule assembly, and suppresses dynamic instability. Under non-reducing conditions, threshold concentrations of 3-repeat tau and tubulin exist below which this isoform still promotes microtubule nucleation and assembly but fails to reduce the tubulin critical concentration or suppress dynamic instability; above these threshold concentrations, amorphous aggregates of 3-repeat tau and tubulin can be produced at the expense of microtubule formation. A 4-repeat tau isoform is less sensitive to the oxidative potential of the environment, behaving under oxidative conditions similarly to the 3-repeat isoform under reducing conditions. Under conditions of oxidative stress, in Chinese hamster ovary cells stably expressing either 3- or 4-repeat tau, 3-repeat tau disassociates from microtubules more readily than the 4-repeat isoform, and tau-containing high molecular weight aggregates are preferentially observed in lysates from the Chinese hamster ovary cells expressing 3-repeat tau, indicating greater susceptibility of 3-repeat tau to oxidative conditions, compared with 4-repeat tau in vivo.
The vanilloid receptor-1 (VR1) is activated by capsaicin, heat and protons and is localized on primary sensory neurons. The present study investigates whether VR1 increases in the inflamed hindpaw thereby contributing to the peripheral sensitization and heat hyperalgesia that characterizes the inflamed state. Forty-eight hours after intraplantar injection of Complete Freund's Adjuvant into one hindpaw, there is a significant increase in the proportion of VR1-labeled unmyelinated axons in digital nerves in the inflamed (32.8 +/- 5.9%) compared to normal (17.1 +/- 2.6%) hindpaws (t-test, P&lt;0.01). A few, small diameter myelinated axons are labeled in normal and inflamed rats with no change in percentages following inflammation. The data suggest that an increase in number of unmyelinated sensory axons expressing VR1 may be one mechanism underlying peripheral sensitization of nociceptors in inflammation.
Lysyl oxidase is an extracellular enzyme that catalyzes cross-linkages of extracellular matrix proteins. We hypothesized that this enzyme is secreted by cells attracted to central nervous system injury sites and is involved in extracellular matrix modulation and in scar formation. Specific antibodies for immunohistochemistry and enzyme activity measurements were used to detect the presence of lysyl oxidase after longitudinal knife cuts in adult rat forebrain. Immunoreactivity was observed within the core of injury sites from 1 and up to 30 days postoperative, with less staining at 2 and 5 days, and was not associated with glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive astrocytes. Enzyme activity increased transiently in injury site regions with a peak (200% of control) at 10 days postoperative. These results are the first to provide evidence for a time-dependent appearance of active extracellular lysyl oxidase in brain injury sites. They imply that enzyme molecules are synthesized and secreted by cells attracted to brain injury sites and participate in extracellular matrix modulation.

Positive reinforcement helps to control the acquisition of learned behaviours. Here we report a cellular mechanism in the brain that may underlie the behavioural effects of positive reinforcement. We used intracranial self-stimulation (ICSS) as a model of reinforcement learning, in which each rat learns to press a lever that applies reinforcing electrical stimulation to its own substantia nigra. The outputs from neurons of the substantia nigra terminate on neurons in the striatum in close proximity to inputs from the cerebral cortex on the same striatal neurons. We measured the effect of substantia nigra stimulation on these inputs from the cortex to striatal neurons and also on how quickly the rats learned to press the lever. We found that stimulation of the substantia nigra (with the optimal parameters for lever-pressing behaviour) induced potentiation of synapses between the cortex and the striatum, which required activation of dopamine receptors. The degree of potentiation within ten minutes of the ICSS trains was correlated with the time taken by the rats to learn ICSS behaviour. We propose that stimulation of the substantia nigra when the lever is pressed induces a similar potentiation of cortical inputs to the striatum, positively reinforcing the learning of the behaviour by the rats.
The redox potential of human manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) has been difficult to determine because of the problem of finding suitable electron mediators. We have found that ferricyanide and pentacyanoaminoferrate can be used as electron mediators, although equilibration is very slow with a half-time near 6 h. Values of the midpoint potential were determined both by allowing enzyme and mediators to equilibrate up to 38 h and by reductive titration adding dithionite to enzyme and mediator. An overall value of the midpoint potential was found to be 393 +/- 29 mV. To elucidate the role of His30 and Tyr34 in the active site of human MnSOD, we have also measured the redox properties of the site-specific mutants His30Asn (H30N) and Tyr34Phe (Y34F) and compared them with the wild-type enzyme. Crystal structures have shown that each mutation interrupts a hydrogen bond network in the active site, and each causes a 10-fold decrease in the maximal velocity of catalysis of superoxide dismutation as compared with wild type. The present study shows that H30N and Y34F human MnSOD have very little effect, within experimental uncertainty, on the redox potential of the active-site metal. The redox potentials determined electrochemically were 365 +/- 28 mV for H30N and 435 +/- 30 mV for Y34F MnSOD. These results suggest that the role of His30 and Tyr34 is more in support of catalysis, probably proton transport, and not in the tuning of the redox potential.
Presynaptic receptors play an important role - typically inhibitory--in modulating the strength of synaptic transmission in the brain. Recent studies now reveal that neurotransmitters can enhance synaptic strength by activating ligand-gated ion channels in presynaptic nerve endings.

The functions of ion channels can be regulated by their phosphorylation state. Protein kinases and protein phosphatases tightly control the activity of channels, thereby regulating the flow of ions across cell membranes. Channel proteins and kinases or phosphatases can associate directly or through intermediate adaptor proteins. An interaction domain termed the leucine zipper (LZ), once thought to be unique to some families of transcription factors, has been identified in channel proteins and their cognate binding proteins. MacFarlane and Levitan discuss what roles LZ-containing proteins might have in controlling channel function.

The monoclonal antibody MNAC13 is a potent antagonist that prevents the binding of nerve-growth factor (NGF) to its tyrosine kinase A receptor (TrkA) in a variety of systems. Structural studies of the FabMNAC13 fragment were performed to gain insights into the mechanism of action of this potentially therapeutic monoclonal antibody. The optimal conditions for crystallization of FabMNAC13 were determined. Crystals appeared as prismatic bundles, displayed P2(1)2(1)2(1) space-group symmetry and diffracted to a resolution of 1.8 A. The unit-cell parameters were determined to be a = 52.73, b = 67.55, c = 111.43 A. The data set was 99.5% complete. Molecular replacement was performed, resulting in a correlation coefficient of 0.55 and an R value of 0.40. The structure refinement is now in progress.




The susceptibility to alcohol dependence is probably of polygenic origin. Association studies have attempted to identify possible candidate genes that may contribute to the risk to developing dependence. Severe forms of the alcoholism phenotype have been associated with an increased frequency of the Taq A1 allele at the DRD2 locus. Ethnic stratification and non-comparable phenotype may have contributed to the contradictory results in previous studies. We identified probands, using the Schedules of Assessment of Neuropsychiatry (SCAN) schedule, who had onset of alcohol dependence (ICD-10) before 25 years of age. Family members were interviewed using the Family Interview for Genetic Studies (FIGS) schedule to identify patients who had two first-degree relatives with alcohol dependence. Fifty subjects who fulfilled the criteria were selected for the study. These were compared to a normal population from a similar background. The allele frequencies did not differ between the two groups. The Taq1a polymorphism does not seem to be associated with alcoholism in this group of severely affected, young age of onset probands in the southern Indian population.


Carbohydrate-deficient transferrin (CDT) in serum has emerged as a useful biochemical marker for identifying current alcohol misuse and monitoring abstinence. This study evaluated the performance of Axis-Shield new %CDT turbidimetric immunoassay (TIA; microtitre and Cobas Mira applications). Comparison was made with the previous Axis %CDT-TIA immunoassay (reference value &lt;5.5%) and %CDT with the high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) technique (reference value &lt;1.2%). The new %CDT assay measures primarily the asialo, monosialo and disialo transferrin isoforms, and the result is expressed as the amount relative to total transferrin. The analytical precision (coefficient of variation: CV) of the %CDT assay ranged between 3.1 and 8.5% for kit controls and serum samples. The %CDT values in serum from healthy social drinkers [i.e. Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test (AUDIT) score 1-7 for men, and 1-5 for women] were 2.07 +/- 0.37% (mean +/- SD, range 1.4-3.3%, n = 100) and this was not significantly different from healthy non-drinkers (1.88 +/- 0.43%, 1.3-2.9%, n = 14), whereas abstinent alcohol patients showed slightly higher values (2.26 +/- 0.41, 1.7-3.4, n = 25). In chronic heavy drinkers (mean daily intake 225 +/- 137 g ethanol according to self-report), the %CDT values were markedly increased (6.33 +/- 4.01%, 1.2-18.0%, n = 107). There was no significant difference in %CDT values between male and female social drinkers. The reference value of the new %CDT assay to be used in clinical practice was tentatively set at &lt;3.0%, which is slightly higher than that obtained by receiver operating characteristics (ROC) curve analysis (&lt;2.8%) and that proposed by the manufacturer in the Instruction Manual (&lt;2.6%). The %CDT assay showed good overall correlation with %CDT-TIA (r = 0.986, P &lt; 0.0001) and %CDT-HPLC (r = 0.978, P &lt; 0.0001). The specificity of the %CDT assay in healthy social drinkers was 98% (%CDT-TIA 100%, %CDT-HPLC 99%) and the sensitivity for any drinking during last week in the alcohol patients was 75% (%CDT-TIA 71%, %CDT-HPLC 80%). The new Axis-Shield %CDT assay can be recommended for routine use. However, whenever a positive immunoassay test result could lead to serious consequences for the individual, it is recommended to confirm the CDT result by the HPLC technique.
This is a review article and critique of current research strategies in the alcohol field. Although the alcohol field is proud of its multidisciplinary tradition and scientific findings within specific disciplines, there are very few models of cross-disciplinary research and communication. Currently, the favored model of risk is genetic; the favored model of pathophysiology is molecular neuroscience; and the favored model of clinical investigation is narrowly categorical. If there is a hierarchy within science that is based on explanatory power, then models of alcoholism emerging from neuroscience, molecular biology, and genetics should be able to accommodate (if not account for) the findings on clinical aspects of alcohol dependence, as well as data on differential risk, course, and recovery that come from the behavioral and social sciences. The first section of this article reviews the most popular models of alcohol dependence over the past 40 years. I argue that the currently fashionable categorical approach to diagnosis in DSM-IV (and ICD-10) has failed to serve as a framework for interdisciplinary research and has failed to meet the needs of human geneticists, population-based researchers, psychosocial researchers, basic scientists working in animal models, and patient-oriented researchers. I argue for a return to the dimensional approach to diagnosis in the alcohol dependence syndrome construct. In the second section of the article, I lay out an agenda for revitalized patient-oriented research in the alcohol field, as a bridge between basic biological research and innovations in clinical practice, as well as the key to a valid diagnostic system that can inform research strategies in genetics and population-based research. In the third section of the article, I highlight the interface between genetic and psychosocial models of risk and propose a possible structure for future collaboration. I conclude with a plea to funding agencies and investigators to translate discipline-based scientific findings into a science relevant to alcoholism by addressing the challenges and opportunities of an interdisciplinary research agenda on the pathophysiology of alcohol dependence and the multidimensional sources of risk.

Myocardial tissue slices were isolated from the left ventricular free wall (7 slices) and left ventricular papillary muscle (3 slices) of New Zealand White male rabbits (n = 4) and were subsequently superfused with a modified St. Thomas' Hospital cardioplegic solution at 19 degrees C. The diffusion-weighted images were obtained with a 600-MHz nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometer using diffusion gradient b-values that ranged from 166 to 6,408 s/mm(2); the apparent diffusion coefficient of water in the tissues were subsequently calculated. All of the tissue samples that were studied exhibited nonmonoexponential diffusion. Data from seven slices were mathematically fitted by a biexponential expression with a fast diffusion component of 0.72 +/- 0.07 x 10(-3) mm(2)/s, and a slow diffusion component of 0.060 +/- 0.033 x 10(-3) mm(2)/s. The fast component dominated the calculated apparent diffusion coefficient of the tissue, composed of 82 +/- 3% of the overall diffusion-dependent signal decay. Thus myocardial tissue exhibits characteristics consistent with multiple compartments of diffusion. This work has important implications for myocardial diffusion tensor imaging, as well as the changes in diffusion that have been reported following myocardial ischemia.
The present study was performed to test the hypothesis that application of lower body positive pressure (LBPP) during orthostasis would reduce the baroreflex-mediated enhancement in sympathetic activity in humans. Eight healthy young men were exposed to a 70 degrees head-up tilt (HUT) on application of 30 mmHg LBPP. Muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) was microneurographically recorded from the tibial nerve, along with hemodynamic variables. We found that in the supine position with LBPP, MSNA remained unchanged (13.4 +/- 3.3 vs. 11.8 +/- 2.3 bursts/min, without vs. with LBPP; P &gt; 0.05), mean arterial pressure was elevated, but arterial pulse pressure and heart rate did not alter. At 70 degrees HUT with LBPP, the enhanced MSNA response was reduced (33.8 +/- 5.0 vs. 22.5 +/- 2.2 bursts/min, without vs. with LBPP; P &lt; 0.05), mean arterial pressure was higher, the decreased pulse pressure was restored, and the increased heart rate was attenuated. We conclude that the baroreflex-mediated enhancement in sympathetic activity during HUT was reduced by LBPP. Application of LBPP in HUT induced an obvious cephalad fluid shift as well as a restoration of arterial pulse pressure, which reduced the inhibition of the baroreceptors. However, the activation of the intramuscular mechanoreflexes produced by 30 mmHg LBPP might counteract the effects of baroreflexes.
The gamma-subunit of the Na-K-ATPase is a single-span membrane protein that alters the kinetic properties of the enzyme. It is expressed in the kidney, but our initial observations indicated that it is not present in all nephron segments (Arystarkhova E, Wetzel RK, Asinovski NK, and Sweadner KJ. J Biol Chem 274: 33183-33185, 1999). Here we used triple-label confocal immunofluorescence microscopy in rat kidney with antibodies to Na-K-ATPase alpha1- and gamma-subunits and nephron segment-specific markers. Na-K-ATPase alpha1-subunit stain was low but unambiguous in proximal segments, moderate in macula densa, connecting tubules, and cortical collecting ducts, high in thick ascending limb and distal convoluted tubules, and nearly undetectable in glomeruli, descending and ascending thin limb, and medullary collecting ducts. The gamma-subunit colocalized at staining levels similar to alpha1-subunit in basolateral membranes in all segments except cortical thick ascending limb and cortical collecting ducts, which had alpha1-subunit but no detectable gamma-subunit stain. Selective gamma-subunit expression may contribute to the variations in Na-K-ATPase properties in different renal segments.


Social cognitive neuroscience is an emerging interdisciplinary field of research that seeks to understand phenomena in terms of interactions between 3 levels of analysis: the social level, which is concerned with the motivational and social factors that influence behavior and experience; the cognitive level, which is concerned with the information-processing mechanisms that give rise to social-level phenomena; and the neural level, which is concerned with the brain mechanisms that instantiate cognitive-level processes. The social cognitive neuroscience approach entails conducting studies and constructing theories that make reference to all 3 levels and contrasts with traditional social psychological and cognitive neuroscientific research that primarily makes reference to 2 levels. The authors present an introduction to and analysis of the field by reviewing current research and providing guidelines and suggested directions for future work.
Multiple Sclerosis (MS) is an inflammatory demyelinating disease of the central nervous system that causes motor, sensory, and cognitive deficits. The present study characterized demyelinated lesions in the cerebral cortex of MS patients. One hundred twelve cortical lesions were identified in 110 tissue blocks from 50 MS patients. Three patterns of cortical demyelination were identified: Type I lesions were contiguous with subcortical white matter lesions; Type II lesions were small, confined to the cortex, and often perivascular; Type III lesions extended from the pial surface to cortical layer 3 or 4. Inflammation and neuronal pathology were studied in tissue from 8 and 7 patients, respectively. Compared to white matter lesions, cortical lesions contained 13 times fewer CD3-positive lymphocytes (195 vs 2,596/mm3 of tissue) and 6 times fewer CD68-positive microglia/macrophages (11,948 vs 67,956/mm3 of tissue). Transected neurites (both axons and dendrites) occurred at a density of 4,119/mm3 in active cortical lesions, 1,107/mm3 in chronic active cortical lesions, 25/mm3 in chronic inactive cortical lesions, 8/mm3 in myelinated MS cortex, and 1/mm3 in control cortex. In active and chronic active cortical lesions, activated microglia closely apposed and ensheathed apical dendrites, neurites, and neuronal perikarya. In addition, apoptotic neurons were increased significantly in demyelinated cortex compared to myelinated cortex. These data support the hypothesis that demyelination, axonal transection, dendritic transection, and apoptotic loss of neurons in the cerebral cortex contribute to neurological dysfunction in MS patients.
The relationship between chronic infection, antispirochetal immunity, and inflammation is unknown in Lyme neuroborreliosis. In the nonhuman primate model of Lyme neuroborreliosis, we measured spirochetal density in the nervous system and other tissues by polymerase chain reaction and correlated these values to anti-Borrelia burgdorferi antibody in the serum and cerebrospinal fluid, and to inflammation in tissues. Despite substantial presence of Borrelia burgdorferi, the causative agent of Lyme borreliosis, in the central nervous system, only minor inflammation was present there, though skeletal and cardiac muscle, which contained similar levels of spirochete, were highly inflamed. Anti-Borrelia burgdoferi antibody was present in the cerebrospinal fluid but was not selectively concentrated. All infected animals developed anti-Borrelia burgdorferi antibody in the serum, but increased amplitude of antibody was not predictive of higher levels of infection. These data demonstrate that Lyme neuroborreliosis is a persistent infection, that spirochetal presence is a necessary but not sufficient condition for inflammation, and that antibody measured in serum may not predict the severity of infection.
Previous work has established that compound mutations and homozygous loss of function of the parkin gene cause early-onset, autosomal recessive parkinsonism. Classically, this disease has been associated with loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta and locus ceruleus, without Lewy body pathology. We have sequenced the parkin gene of 38 patients with early-onset Parkinson's disease (&lt;41 years). Two probands with mutations were followed up. Clinical evaluation of their families was performed, blinded to both genetic and pathological findings. Chromosome 6q25.2-27 haplotype analysis was carried out independently of the trait; parkin gene expression was examined at both the RNA and protein levels. Haplotype analysis of these families revealed a common chromosome 6, with a novel 40 bp exon 3 deletion that cosegregated with disease. In the proband of the smaller kindred, an exon 7 R275W substitution was identified in addition to the exon 3 deletion; RNA analysis demonstrated that the mutations were on alternate transcripts. However, Lewy body pathology typical of idiopathic Parkinson's disease was found at autopsy in the proband from the smaller kindred. These data suggest that compound heterozygous parkin mutations and loss of parkin protein may lead to early-onset parkinsonism with Lewy body pathology, while a hemizygous mutation may confer increased susceptibility to typical Parkinson's disease.
Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy (CIDP) is widely regarded as an autoimmune disorder, although the autoantigen remains unknown. In this study, the sera of 21 CIDP patients were examined by immunofluorescence for antimyelin activity and by Western blotting for binding to myelin proteins. Six sera contained anti-P0 immunoglobulin G antibodies, and four of these caused conduction block and demyelination following intraneural injection in experimental animals. Absorption with P0 protein eliminated the demyelinating activity. These results show that P0 is an autoantigen in some patients with CIDP. Since P0 possesses powerful adhesion properties and is largely responsible for myelin compaction, the demonstration of demyelination by human anti-P0 antibodies provides new insight into this important and common immunopathological process.






The age-related changes in the fast rate (70-110 Hz) auditory steady state response elicited by multiple-frequency tones (MSSR) that were amplitude-modulated (AM) are reported here. The MSSR was recorded in a sample of 64 well babies distributed into three age groups: 0-29 days (n = 25); 1-6 months (n = 26); 7-12 months (n = 13). Four simultaneously presented AM tones (0.5, 1, 2 and 4 kHz) were delivered monaurally through TDH 49 earphones, at different intensities (between 90 and 30 dB SPL). Clear developmental changes were found between birth and 12 months of age in response threshold, amplitude and detectability. Statistical analysis revealed that these changes occurred at different rates for low- and high- frequency responses. Nonetheless adult-like hearing thresholds were estimated reasonably well in most newborns and well babies, for all frequencies tested. Therefore the MSSR technique could be useful for objective frequency-specific audiometry beginning at birth.
The acute administration of acetaminophen to isolated, perfused guinea pig hearts appears to have cardioprotective effects against the injury/mechanical dysfunction caused by global, low-flow, myocardial ischemia and reperfusion. In the current study we selected ischemia/reperfusion and administration of sodium pentobarbital as perturbations of the electrical stability of the myocardium. We investigated their ability to induce ventricular arrhythmias and changes in the characteristics of monophasic action potentials in the absence and presence of acetaminophen (0.35 mmol/l). The numbers of ventricular premature beats and ventricular salvos encountered in the presence of pentobarbital were significantly (P &lt; 0.05) reduced by acetaminophen. The combined frequency of these arrhythmias was 0.14+/-0.06/min vs 0.03+/-0.01/min (P &lt; 0.05) in the absence and presence of acetaminophen, respectively. The incidence of ventricular salvos increased steadily in vehicle-treated hearts after administration of pentobarbital. No such trend was seen with acetaminophen. After 10 min of global, low-flow myocardial ischemia, MAP50 and MAP90 (monophasic action potentials at 50 and 90% repolarization, respectively) decreased without acetaminophen (e.g. MAP50, 31+/-4 ms) but did not change during the same time interval with acetaminophen (e.g. MAP50, 57+/-6 ms)(P &lt; 0.05). During ischemia and reperfusion, acetaminophen attenuated the release of hydroxyl radicals and peroxynitrite. Collectively these data reveal cardioprotective, antioxidant behavior of acetaminophen. Under selected conditions (e.g. those causing release of free radicals and other oxidants) such behavior might also prevent ventricular arrhythmias.
Fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) is responsible for the hydrolysis of a number of important endogenous fatty acid amides, including the endogenous cannabimimetic agent anandamide (AEA), the sleep-inducing compound oleamide, and the putative anti-inflammatory agent palmitoylethanolamide (PEA). In recent years, there have been great advances in our understanding of the biochemical and pharmacological properties of the enzyme. In this commentary, the structure and biochemical properties of FAAH and the development of potent and selective FAAH inhibitors are reviewed, together with a brief discussion on the therapeutic possibilities for such compounds in the treatment of inflammatory pain and ischaemic states.
The nervous system uses two basic types of formats for encoding information. The parameters of many sensory (and some premotor) signals are represented by the pattern of activity among an array of neurons each of which is optimally responsive to a different parameter value. This type of code is commonly referred to as a place code. Motor commands, in contrast, use rate coding: the desired force of a muscle is specified as a monotonic function of the aggregate rate of discharge across all of its motor neurons. Generating movements based on sensory information often requires converting signals from a place code to a rate code. In this paper I discuss three possible models for how the brain does this.
In addition to its familiar role as a component of metalloproteins, zinc is also sequestered in the presynaptic vesicles of a specialized type of neurons called 'zinc-containing' neurons. Here we review the physiological and pathological effects of the release of zinc from these zinc-containing synaptic terminals. The best-established physiological role of synaptically released zinc is the tonic modulation of brain excitability through modulation of amino acid receptors; prominent pathological effects include acceleration of plaque deposition in Alzheimer's disease and exacerbation of excitotoxic neuron injury. Synaptically released zinc functions as a conventional synaptic neurotransmitter or neuromodulator, being released into the cleft, then recycled into the presynaptic terminal. Beyond this, zinc also has the highly unconventional property that it passes into postsynaptic neurons during synaptic events, functioning analogously to calcium in this regard, as a transmembrane neural signal. To stimulate comparisons of zinc signals with calcium signals, we have compiled a list of the important parameters of calcium signals and zinc signals. More speculatively, we hypothesize that zinc signals may loosely mimic phosphate 'signals' in the sense that signal zinc ions may commonly bind to proteins in a lasting manner (i.e., 'zincylating' the proteins) with consequential changes in protein structure and function.
Experimental and theoretical calculations indicate that the dipole moment of the four Trp side chains in gramicidin A (gA) channels modify channel conductance through long-range electrostatic interactions. Electrostatic ion/side-chain interaction energies along the channel were computed with CHARMM using ab initio atom charges for native and 4-, 5-, or 6-fluorinated Trp side chains. The bulk water reaction to the polar side chains was included using the method of images as implemented by, and channel waters in idealized structures were included. Ion/Trp interaction energies were approximately -0.6 kcal/mol throughout the channel for all four of the native Trp pairs. Channel waters produced a modest reduction in the magnitude of interactions, essentially offsetting images representing the bulk water outside the channel. The effects of side-chain fluorination depended on ring position and, to a lesser extent, residue number. Compared with native Trp, 5-fluorination reduces the translocation barrier with minor effects on the exit barrier. In contrast, 6-fluorination primarily reduces exit barrier. 4-Fluorination produces a more complex double-well energy profile. Effects of measured side-chain movements resulting from fluorination or change in lipid bilayer were negligible whereas thermal side chain librations cause large effects, especially in the region of the ion-binding sites.
We have utilized cultured neuronal networks grown on microelectrode arrays to demonstrate rapid, reliable detection of a toxic compound, trimethylolpropane phosphate (TMPP). Initial experiments, which were performed blind, demonstrated rapid classification of the compound as a convulsant, a finding consistent with previous whole animal neurobehavioral studies. TMPP (2-200 microM) reorganized network spike activity into synchronous, quasi-periodic burst episodes. Integrated burst amplitudes invariably increased, reflecting higher spike frequencies within each burst. The variability of network burst parameters, quantified as coefficients of variation (CVs), was decreased. Mean CVs for burst duration, interburst interval, and burst rate were lowered by 42+/-13, 58+/-5.5, and 62+/-1.8%, respectively (mean+/-SEM, n=8 cultures, 197 channels). These changes in network activity paralleled the effects induced by bicuculline, a known disinhibitory and seizure-inducing drug, and confirmed classification of TMPP as a potential epileptogenic compound. Simple pharmacological tests permit exploration of mechanisms underlying observed activity shifts. The EC(50) for GABA inhibition of network activity was increased from 2.8 to 7.0 microM by 20 microM TMPP and to 20.5 microM by 200 microM TMPP. Parallel dose-response curves suggest that TMPP acts by a competitive antagonism of GABA inhibition, and are consistent with reported patch-clamp analysis of TMPP-induced reduction of inhibitory postsynaptic current amplitudes. The potency of TMPP in generating epileptiform activity in vitro was comparable to concentrations reported for in vivo studies. TMPP and bicuculline produced both increases and decreases in burst rate depending on native spontaneous bursting levels. These results demonstrate a need for multivariate analysis of network activity changes to yield accurate predictions of compound effects.
Norepinephrine transporters (NETs) use the Na gradient to remove norepinephrine (NE) from the synaptic cleft of adrenergic neurons following NE release from the presynaptic terminal. By coupling NE to the inwardly directed Na gradient, it is possible to concentrate NE inside cells. This mechanism, which is referred to as co-transport or secondary transport (Luger, 1991, Electrogenic Ion Pumps, Sinauer Associates) is apparently universal: Na coupled transport applies to serotonin transporters (SERTs), dopamine transporters (DATs), glutamate transporters, and many others, including transporters for osmolites, metabolites and substrates such as sugar. Recently we have shown that NETs and SERTs transport norepinephrine or serotonin as if Na and the transmitter permeated through an ion channel together 'Galli et al., 1998, PNAS 95, 13260-13265; Petersen and DeFelice, 1999, Nature Neurosci. 2, 605-610'. These data are paradoxical because it has been difficult to envisage how NE, for example, would couple to Na if these ions move passively through an open pore. An 'alternating access' model is usually evoked to explain coupling: in such models NE and Na bind to NET, which then undergoes a conformational change to release NE and Na on the inside. The empty transporter then turns outward to complete the cycle. Alternating-access models never afford access to an open channel. Rather, substrates and co-transported ions are occluded in the transporter and carried across the membrane. The coupling mechanism we propose is fundamentally different than the coupling mechanism evoked in the alternating access model. To explain coupling in co-transporters, we use a mechanism first evoked by 'Hodgkin and Keynes (1955) J. Physiol. 128, 61-88' to explain ion interactions in K-selective channels. In the Hodgkin and Keynes model, K ions move single-file through a long narrow pore. Their model accounted for the inward/outward flux ratio if they assumed that two K ions queue within the pore. We evoke a similar model for the co-transport of transmitter and Na. In our case, however, coupling occurs not only between like ions but also between unlike ions (i.e. the transmitter and Na ). We made a replica of the Hodgkin and Keynes mechanical model to test our ideas, and we extended the model with computer simulations using Monte Carlo methods. We also developed an analytic formula for Na coupled co-transport that is analogous to the single-file Ussing equation for channels. The model shows that stochastic diffusion through a long narrow pore can explain coupled transport. The length of the pore amplifies the Na gradient that drives co-transport.
Na current fluctuations under voltage-clamp conditions during pulse steps in the potential range from -65 to -30 mV were measured in myelinated nerve fibers of Xenopus laevis. The covariance functions for four consecutive 1 ms intervals were calculated. The time courses of the covariance functions were well fitted with monoexponential functions with time constants between 0.5 and 3 ms, larger at the end of the pulse and larger at more positive potentials. To analyze the underlying channel kinetics we simulated current fluctuations at a step to -35 mV of eight published Na channel models and calculated corresponding covariance functions. None of the models did explain the experimental fluctuation results. We therefore developed a new Na channel model that satisfactorily described the results. Features that distinguished this model from the other tested ones were a slower deactivation rate, and an inactivation transition directly from a closed state.
We examined the pattern of inorganic orthophosphate (PPi) ion distribution in dividing cells of Zea mays root-tips. Unfixed and paraformaldehyde- or glutaraldehyde-vapor fixed tissues were immersed in lead acetate, glutaraldehyde, and cacodylate buffer to capture PPi as insoluble orthophosphate lead hydroxyapatite. Excess lead ions were removed with sodium citrate, then permeabilized in ammonia. Precipitates were stained with potassium sulfide, washed with distilled water and squashed in a drop of glycerin. The accumulation of PPi ions was cyclic in the cytoplasm during mitosis and they surrounded all chromosomes during metaphase and anaphase. Partition between dividing cells started with a high concentration of PPi ions at sites where plasma membrane and cell walls formed. Small daughter cells and those in G1 phase had PPi concentrated in the nucleolus, with lower levels elsewhere in the nucleus. Later in the cell cycle, there were greater amounts of PPi ions associated with condensed chromatin in larger nuclei. In Xenopus laevis oocytes, PPi was concentrated in the nucleus, mainly in the active central core of multiple nucleoli. These results and others indicate that compartmentalization of PPi occurs in the intact cell and correlates with the rate of transcription in distinct functional domains within the nucleus.

The assessment of brain volume change with serial MRI provides an objective measure of an important component of the pathology of multiple sclerosis. Glatiramer acetate (GA) has a beneficial effect on clinical and MRI measures of disease activity and burden in patients with relapsing-remitting (RR) multiple sclerosis. This study investigated the impact of GA treatment on the development of brain atrophy in RR multiple sclerosis patients. The study consisted of a 9-month, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase followed by a 9-month open-label phase. Patients were randomized to receive either 20 mg GA or placebo by daily subcutaneous injections and underwent brain MRI scans every month during the first phase, and every 3 months during the second phase of the study. Using a semi-automated segmentation technique based on local thresholding, brain volume was measured from seven contiguous periventricular slices from the scans obtained at baseline, the end of the double-blind phase and the end of the study. From the original trial cohort, image sets from 113 out of 119 patients randomized to GA, and 114 out of 120 randomized to placebo treatment were evaluated. Brain volume was significantly correlated with patients' disability at each time-point. No significant differences between placebo- and GA-treated patients were found for baseline brain volume and rate of brain volume change over the study, even though a possible late trend for treatment with GA to retard the loss of brain volume was observed. There was a significant, but modest, correlation between MRI activity during the double-blind phase, and brain volume change over the entire study among patients originally treated with placebo. The modest correlation between enhancement frequency and brain atrophy loss indicates that the suppression of inflammatory activity in RR multiple sclerosis patients is not fully and rapidly associated with a similar effect on the global neurodegenerative processes. This study also suggests that any effect of GA in preventing brain volume decrease is not evident early following institution of treatment.
Single-cell recording of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) was undertaken in 14 patients with Parkinson's disease submitted to surgery. Three hundred and fifty neurones were recorded and assessed for their response to passive and active movements. Thirty-two per cent were activated by passive and active movement of the limbs, oromandibular region and abdominal wall. All neurones with sensorimotor responses were in the dorsolateral region of the STN. Arm-related neurones were lateral (&gt; or =14 mm plane) to leg-related neurones, which were found more medially (&lt; or =12 mm). Representation of the oromandibular musculature was in the middle of the sensorimotor region (approximately 13 mm plane) and ventral to the arm and leg. Two hundred neurones were adequately isolated for 'off-line' analysis. The mean frequency of discharge was 33 +/- 17 Hz (13-117 Hz). Three types of neuronal discharges were distinguished: irregular (60.5%), tonic (24%) and oscillatory (15.5 %). They were statistically differentiated on the basis of their mean firing frequency and the coefficient of variation of the interspike interval. Neurones responding to movement were of the irregular or tonic type, and were found in the dorsolateral region of the STN. Neurones with oscillatory and low frequency activity did not respond to movement and were in the ventral one-third of the nucleus. Thirty-eight tremor-related neurones were recorded. The majority (84%) of these were sensitive to movement and were located in the dorsolateral region of the STN. Cross power analysis (n = 16) between the rhythmic neuronal activity and tremor in the limbs showed a peak frequency of 5 Hz (4-8 Hz). Neuronal activity of the substantia nigra pars reticulata was recorded 0.5-3 mm below the STN. Eighty neurones were recorded 'on-line' and 27 were isolated for 'off-line' analysis. A tonic pattern of discharge characterized by a mean firing rate of 71 +/- 28 Hz (35-122 Hz) with a mean coefficient of variation of the interspike interval of 0.85 +/- 0.29 ms was found. In only three neurones (11%) was there a response to sensorimotor stimulation. The findings of this study indicate that the somatotopic arrangement and electrophysiological features of the STN in Parkinson's disease patients are similar to those found in monkeys.
We performed successive H(2)(15)O-PET scans on volunteers as they ate chocolate to beyond satiety. Thus, the sensory stimulus and act (eating) were held constant while the reward value of the chocolate and motivation of the subject to eat were manipulated by feeding. Non-specific effects of satiety (such as feelings of fullness and autonomic changes) were also present and probably contributed to the modulation of brain activity. After eating each piece of chocolate, subjects gave ratings of how pleasant/unpleasant the chocolate was and of how much they did or did not want another piece of chocolate. Regional cerebral blood flow was then regressed against subjects' ratings. Different groups of structures were recruited selectively depending on whether subjects were eating chocolate when they were highly motivated to eat and rated the chocolate as very pleasant [subcallosal region, caudomedial orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), insula/operculum, striatum and midbrain] or whether they ate chocolate despite being satiated (parahippocampal gyrus, caudolateral OFC and prefrontal regions). As predicted, modulation was observed in cortical chemosensory areas, including the insula and caudomedial and caudolateral OFC, suggesting that the reward value of food is represented here. Of particular interest, the medial and lateral caudal OFC showed opposite patterns of activity. This pattern of activity indicates that there may be a functional segregation of the neural representation of reward and punishment within this region. The only brain region that was active during both positive and negative compared with neutral conditions was the posterior cingulate cortex. Therefore, these results support the hypothesis that there are two separate motivational systems: one orchestrating approach and another avoidance behaviours.
Patients with pathological laughter and crying (PLC) are subject to relatively uncontrollable episodes of laughter, crying or both. The episodes occur either without an apparent triggering stimulus or following a stimulus that would not have led the subject to laugh or cry prior to the onset of the condition. PLC is a disorder of emotional expression rather than a primary disturbance of feelings, and is thus distinct from mood disorders in which laughter and crying are associated with feelings of happiness or sadness. The traditional and currently accepted view is that PLC is due to the damage of pathways that arise in the motor areas of the cerebral cortex and descend to the brainstem to inhibit a putative centre for laughter and crying. In that view, the lesions 'disinhibit' or 'release' the laughter and crying centre. The neuroanatomical findings in a recently studied patient with PLC, along with new knowledge on the neurobiology of emotion and feeling, gave us an opportunity to revisit the traditional view and propose an alternative. Here we suggest that the critical PLC lesions occur in the cerebro-ponto-cerebellar pathways and that, as a consequence, the cerebellar structures that automatically adjust the execution of laughter or crying to the cognitive and situational context of a potential stimulus, operate on the basis of incomplete information about that context, resulting in inadequate and even chaotic behaviour.
We carried out behavioral, pathological, and biochemical studies in order to determine whether the stereo-structure of 1-methyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline (1-MeTIQ) affects the onset of Parkinson's disease-like symptoms, which are induced by 1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline (TIQ) in mice. Pretreatment with (R)-1-MeTIQ or its racemate (RS)-1-MeTIQ prevented the TIQ-induced bradykinesia. Pretreatment with a combination of L-DOPA and carbidopa significantly prevented subsequent TIQ-induced bradykinesia. Furthermore, the pathological study demonstrated that either (R)-1-MeTIQ or its racemate protected against TIQ-induced loss of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cells of the substantia nigra pars compacta. (R)-1-MeTIQ and its racemate also prevented the TIQ-induced reduction in the levels of dopamine and its metabolites in the striatum. Serotonin and its metabolite were not affected by repeated administration of (RS)-1-MeTIQ or its derivatives. On the other hand, (S)-1-MeTIQ induced moderate but significant bradykinesia, whereas (R)-1-MeTIQ did not induce this behavioral abnormality at all. In addition, (S)-enantiomer prevented the onset of TIQ-induced bradykinesia, though to a lesser extent than did either (R)-enantiomer or its racemate. However, (S)-enantiomer did not prevent the loss of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta. We concluded that (R)-1-MeTIQ, and not (S)-enantiomer, plays a crucial role in protection against TIQ-induced parkinsonism, a fact which suggests that enantiomeric biochemical events such as 1-MeTIQ biosynthesis may participate in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease.
The vascularised rat retina could be one of the most useful experimental objects in visual neuroscience to understand human visual physiological and pathological processes. We report here on a new method of implantation for studying the visual system of freely moving rats that provides a rat model for simultaneous recording at corneal and cortical level and is stable enough to record for months. We implanted light emitting diodes onto the skull behind the eyeball to stimulate the eye with flashes and to light adapt the retina with constant light levels. A multistrand, stainless steel, flexible fine wire electrode placed on the eyeball was used for electroretinogram recording and screw electrodes (left/right visual and parietal cortical) were used to record the visual evoked potential and the electroencephalogram. In the present report we focus on the new method of implantation for recording the corneal flash electroretinogram of normal, freely moving rats simultaneously with the visual evoked cortical potential showing examples in various visual experiments. We also introduce a program for retinogram and visual evoked potential analysis, which defines various measures (latencies, areas, amplitudes, and durations) and draw attention to the benefits of this method for those involved in visual, functional genomic, pharmacological, and human ophthalmologic research.

A Space Life Sciences Planning Workshop was sponsored by the Canadian Space Agency to identify key questions in the major research areas supported by the Life Sciences Program, to identify Canadian strengths and capabilities as they relate to these research areas, and to make recommendations for the future directions of the Life Sciences Program. The conclusions reached by the workshop participants have been presented to the Canadian Space Agency. This report is a summary of those conclusions.
The mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase pathway has been implicated in cell cycle control for some time. Several reports have suggested a role for this pathway in growth factor stimulation of DNA synthesis, while other reports have proposed a role in the transition of cells through mitosis. Here, we have examined the potential involvement of the extracellular signal-related kinase (ERK)1/2 MAP kinases, their upstream regulators, and downstream effectors in the regulation of mitosis. Inhibition of MAP kinase/ERK kinase (MEK) activity reduced the serum-stimulated DNA synthesis and proliferation of Swiss 3T3 cells. To study the potential mechanisms of this effect, we examined the subcellular localization of members of the MAP kinase pathway including regulators (MEK1/2), substrates (90-kDa ribosomal S6 kinases (RSKs): RSK1, RSK2 and RSK3), and ERK itself. We show that there is enrichment of ERK, MEK, and the RSK enzymes on both the spindle and midbody tubulin of dividing cells. Inhibition of MEK1/2 activity in cells released from mitotic arrest results in an inability of cells to complete mitosis. This failure to exit mitosis correlated with altered cyclin-dependent kinase (cdk) activities. Thus, the MAP kinase pathway may act to coordinate passage through mitosis in Swiss 3T3 fibroblasts by regulation of cdk activity.
Over the past 40 years, Denmark has established a world reputation for the comprehensive nature and excellence of its headache research. Advances have been made in epidemiology, genetics, pathophysiology and treatment across the whole spectrum of headache entities. Moreover, the IHS classification of headache, the guidelines for clinical trials and text books on the basic mechanisms and management of headaches were initiated from Denmark. These achievements are a tribute to all those who have participated and to the continuing leadership of Jes Olesen.


The use of computational approaches in the analysis of high resolution magnetic resonance images (MRI) of the human brain provides a powerful tool for in vivo studies of brain anatomy. Here, we report results obtained with a voxel-wise statistical analysis of hemispheric asymmetries in regional 'amounts' of gray matter, based on MRI scans obtained in 142 healthy young adults. Firstly, the voxel-wise analysis detected the well-known frontal (right &gt; left) and occipital (left &gt; right) petalias. Secondly, our analysis confirmed the presence of left-greater-than-right asymmetries in several posterior language areas, including the planum temporale and the angular gyrus; no significant asymmetry was detected in the anterior language regions. We also found previously described asymmetries in the cingulate sulcus (right &gt; left) and the caudate nucleus (right &gt; left). Finally, in some brain regions we observed highly significant asymmetries that were not reported before, such as in the anterior insular cortex (right &gt; left). The above asymmetries were observed in men and women. Our results thus provide confirmation of the known structural asymmetries in the human brain as well as new findings that may stimulate further research of hemispheric specialization.
The functional organization of area 3a, a cortical field proposed to be involved in somato-motor-vestibular integration, has never been described for any primate. In the present investigation, the topographic organization and connections of area 3a were examined in marmosets using electrophysiological recording and anatomical tracing techniques. Multi-unit neuronal activity was recorded at a number of closely spaced sites; receptive fields (RFs) for neurons were determined, and the optimal stimulus was identified. In all cases, neurons in area 3a responded to the stimulation of deep receptors on the contralateral body. The representation of the body in area 3a was from the toes and foot, to the hindlimb, trunk, forelimb, hand and face in a mediolateral progression. In all cases electrophysiological results were related to myeloarchitecture, and the map in area 3a was found to be coextensive with a strip of lightly to moderately myelinated cortex just rostral to the darkly myelinated 3b. To examine the cortical connections of area 3a, injections of anatomical tracers were made into electrophysiologically identified body part representations. Area 3a has dense intrinsic connections and receives substantial inputs from the primary motor cortex (M1), the supplementary motor area (SMA), areas 1 and 2, the second somatosensory area (S2), and areas in posterior parietal cortex (PP). The connections of area 3a indicate that integration of cortical representations of body parts occurs both within area 3a and between area 3a and other somatosensory and motor areas. In addition, there are differential patterns of interconnections between behaviorally relevant body part representations of area 3a, such as the forelimb, compared to other body part representations (hindlimb/ trunk), especially with 'higher order' cortical fields. This suggests that 3a may be an important component in a network that generates a common frame of reference for hand and eye coordinated reaching tasks.
When people perform two tasks simultaneously, the tasks are often executed slower and with more errors than when they are carried out as single tasks. This is called dual task interference. With functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we show that concurrently performed visual and somatosensory reaction time (RT) tasks engage almost identical volumes of cortical and subcortical motor structures. Moreover, dual RT tasks engaged additional cortical regions that are not activated by the component RT tasks had they been performed as single tasks. When the inter-stimulus interval was &lt;300 ms, the first task interfered with the second, and a field in the right inferior frontal gyrus (RIFG) appeared with activity correlated with the increased RT to the second stimulus. This activation was spatially distinct from the cortical activity of the main effect of dual task performance. Thus, the performance of single RT tasks, dual RT tasks and dual RT tasks that interfere differ psychophysically and in the brain structures subserving these tasks. A short occupancy of the common motor structures can explain the interference effect. The increased activity of the RIFG correlated with the interference effect is very likely to be a specific outcome of situations where two concurrent tasks interfere with each other. The brain appears to recruit the RIFG for a subsequent (delayed) response when there is interference between dual tasks.
Haemorrhage in low-grade glioma is rare. A 4-year-old boy presented with sudden loss of consciousness. CT scan of his head revealed anterior third ventricular tumour with bleeding, intraventricular haemorrhage and hydrocephalus. The boy expired within 26 h of the onset of his illness, and an autopsy revealed a haemorrhagic juvenile pilocytic astrocytoma arising from the lateral hypothalamus with intraventricular haemorrhage. Intracranial tumour as the cause of sudden death and tumour with bleeding are discussed.

Eight experiments tested the abilities of 3-4-year-old children to reorient themselves and locate a hidden object in an open circular space furnished with three or four landmark objects. Reorientation was tested by hiding a target object inside one of the landmarks, disorienting the child, observing the child's search for the target, and comparing the child's performance to otherwise similar trials in which the child remained oriented. On oriented trials, children located the target successfully in every experiment. On disoriented trials, in contrast, children failed to locate the object when the landmarks were indistinguishable from one another but formed a distinctive geometric configuration (a triangle with sides of unequal length or a rectangle). This finding provides evidence that the children failed to use the geometric configuration of objects to reorient themselves. As in past research, children also did not appear to reorient themselves in accord with non-geometric properties of the layout. In contrast to these findings, children successfully located the object in relation to a geometric configuration of walls. Moreover, adults, who were tested in two further experiments, located the object by using both geometric and non-geometric information. Together, these ten experiments provide evidence that early-developing navigational abilities depend on a mechanism that is sensitive to the shape of the permanent, extended surface layout, but that is not sensitive to geometric or non-geometric properties of objects in the layout.

Because of adverse reactions, early efforts to introduce high affinity competitive or use-dependent NMDA receptor antagonists into patients suffering from stroke, head trauma or epilepsy met with failure. Later it was discovered that both low affinity use-dependent NMDA receptor antagonists and compounds with selective affinity for the NR2B receptor subunit met the criteria for safe administration into patients. Furthermore, these low affinity antagonists exhibit significant mechanistic differences from their higher affinity counterparts. Success of the latter is attested to the ability of the following low affinity compounds to be marketed: 1) Cough suppressant-dextromethorphan (available for decades); 2) Parkinson's disease--amantadine, memantine and budipine; 3) Dementia--memantine; and 4) Epilepsy--felbamate. Moreover, Phase III clinical trials are ongoing with remacemide for epilepsy and Huntington's disease and head trauma for HU-211. A host of compounds are or were under evaluation for the possible treatment of stroke, head trauma, hyperalgesia and various neurodegenerative disorders. Despite the fact that other drugs with associated NMDA receptor mechanisms have reached clinical status, this review focuses only on those competitive and use-dependent NMDA receptor antagonists that reached clinical trails. The ensuing discussions link the in vivo pharmacological investigations that led to the success/mistakes/ failures for eventual testing of promising compounds in the clinic.
The generation of unlimited quantities of neural stem and/or progenitor cells derived from the human brain holds great interest for basic and applied neuroscience. In this article we critically review the origins and recent developments of procedures developed for the expansion, perpetuation, identification, and isolation of human neural precursors, as well as their attributes. Factors influencing their in vitro properties, both under division and after differentiation conditions, are evaluated, with the aim of identifying properties common to the different culture systems reported. This analysis suggests that different culture procedures result in cells with different properties, or even in different cells being isolated. With respect to in vivo performance, present evidence obtained in rodents indicate that cultured human neural precursors, in general, are endowed with excellent integrative properties. Differentiation of the implanted cells, in particular in the case of adult recipients, seems not to be complete, and functionality still needs to be demonstrated. In relation to gene transfer and therapy, aspects currently underexplored, initial data support the view that human neural stem and progenitor cells may serve a role as a platform cell for the delivery of bioactive substances to the diseased CNS. Although a large deal of basic research remains to be done, available data illustrate the enormous potential that human neural precursors isolated, expanded, and characterized in vitro hold for therapeutic applications. In spite of this potential, maintaining a critical view on many unresolved questions will surely help to drive this research field to a good end, that is, the development of real therapies for diseases of the human nervous system.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by deterioration in mental function leading to dementia, deposition of amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs), and neuronal loss. The major component of plaques is the amyloid-beta peptide (A beta), whereas NFTs are assemblies of hyperphosphorylated forms of the microtubule-associated protein tau. Electron microscopy of NFTs reveals structures known as paired helical filaments (PHFs). In familial AD (FAD), mutations in three distinct genes drive A beta synthesis by favoring endoproteolytic secretase cleavages that liberate A beta from the Alzheimer beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP). This suggests that excess A beta initiates a pathogenic cascade in humans that culminates in all the pathologic and cellular hallmarks of AD. Building upon the knowledge of FAD mutations, incremental technical advances have now allowed reproduceable creation of APP transgenic mice that exhibit AD-like amyloid pathology and A beta burdens. These transgenic mouse lines also exhibit deficits in spatial reference and working memory, with immunization against A beta abrogating both AD-associated phenotypes. Besides establishing a proof of principle for A beta-directed therapies, these findings suggest a potential to identify individual elements in the pathogenic pathway that lead to cognitive dysfunction. Furthermore, transgenic APP mice with potent amyloid deposition will likely form a beach-head to capture the final elements of AD neuropathology--cell loss and NFTs composed of PHFs--that are missing from current transgenic models.
Over the past several years, neurotrophic factors have made considerable progress from the laboratory into the clinic. Evidence from preclinical and clinical studies indicates that it may be possible to use neurotrophic factors to prevent, slow the progression of, or even reverse the effects of a number of neurodegenerative diseases and other types of insults in both the central and peripheral nervous system. Their potential importance in the development of therapeutic agents against neurodegenerative disorders and nerve injury has led to a flurry of activity towards understanding their structure, function and signalling mechanisms. Approaches to develop pharmacological agents that target neurotrophic factors, their receptors or neurotrophic factors signalling pathways have been attempted. This review focuses on some of the major themes and lines of mechanistic and therapeutic advances in this fast-moving field of neuroscience.
During childhood chickenpox, varicella-zoster virus becomes latent in neurons of the dorsal root or trigeminal ganglia. Shingles results years to decades later from a breakdown of viral latency within a ganglion and subsequent virus spread to the skin producing a unilateral dermatomal vesicular rash accompanied by segmental pain. Treatment with famciclovir, valacyclovir, and high dose acyclovir is beneficial if started within the first 3 days of the rash. All three drugs can be given orally, are equally effective, shorten the duration of viral shedding and time to healing of the rash by 1 to 2 days, and lessen the intensity and duration of the acute neuritic pain. Famciclovir and valacyclovir have more convenient dosing schedules (three times daily) compared to acyclovir (five times daily). Mild cases of shingles in younger healthy individuals often do not require any antiviral treatment. Pain in shingles may have burning, lancinating, or allodynic qualities, ranges in intensity from mild to unbearable, and lasts 2 to 8 weeks. Pain treatment varies on the type and intensity of pain experienced. In a few patients, post-herpetic neuralgia develops and the dermatomal pain persists for months to years. Effective treatment of post-herpetic pain is often difficult.
A growing body of evidence points out the potential role of inflammatory mechanisms in the pathophysiology of brain damage in dementia. In previous studies, we have demonstrated intrathecal production of the proinflammatory cytokine tumor necrosis factor (TNF)alpha in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). The aim of the present study was to investigate the downstream products of TNF-alpha expression including interleukin (IL)1beta and its naturally occurring antagonist IL-1 receptor agonist (ra) in patients with AD. The cytokine levels were related to neuronal damage, as measured by intrathecal tau and beta-amyloid concentration and certain clinical features of the disease. Fifty-two patients with AD and 25 healthy controls were analyzed with respect to cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) levels of IL-1beta and IL-1ra. CSF IL-1beta was neither detectable in CSF of AD nor in control CSF. In contrast, a significantly lower (p &lt; 0.01) number of patients (24 of 49) than of controls (20 of 24) showed detectable levels of IL-1ra in the CSF. The intrathecal levels of IL-1ra were significantly lower in patients with AD than in the controls. Our study demonstrates a decreased production of the anti-inflammatory compound IL-1ra, suggesting a propensity towards inflammation in patients with AD.
The differentiation, survival, and proliferation of developing sympathetic neuroblasts are all coordinately promoted by neurotrophins. In this study, we demonstrate that bone morphogenetic protein 4 (BMP4), a factor known to be necessary for the differentiation of sympathetic neurons (Schneider et al., 1999), conversely reduces both survival and proliferation of cultured E14 sympathetic neuroblasts. The anti-proliferative effects of BMP4 occur more rapidly than the pro-apoptotic actions and appear to involve different intracellular mechanisms. BMP4 treatment induces expression of the transcription factor Msx-2 and the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p21(CIP1/WAF1) (p21). Treatment of cells with oligonucleotides antisense to either of these genes prevents cell death after BMP4 treatment but does not significantly alter the anti-proliferative effects. Thus Msx-2 and p21 are necessary for BMP4-mediated cell death but not for promotion of exit from cell cycle. Although treatment of cultured E14 sympathetic neuroblasts with neurotrophins alone did not alter cell numbers, BMP4-induced cell death was prevented by co-treatment with either neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) or nerve growth factor (NGF). This suggests that BMP4 may also induce dependence of the cells on neurotrophins for survival. Thus, sympathetic neuron numbers may be determined in part by factors that inhibit the proliferation and survival of neuroblasts and make them dependent upon exogenous factors for survival.
Huddling is expressed by infant rats and continues to be an important behavior throughout adulthood. As a form of behavioral thermoregulation, huddling is thought to play an essential role in compensating for inadequate physiological thermoregulation early in development. Infant rats, however, are capable of heat production shortly after birth using brown adipose tissue (BAT) and exhibit thermogenesis in the huddle, suggesting that huddling does not obviate the need for endothermy during cold exposure. In the present experiment, 4-pup huddles of infant rats (2- or 8-day-olds) were exposed to two subthermoneutral temperatures, and BAT thermogenesis was inhibited in 0, 2, or 4 of the rats in each huddle. Inhibition of BAT thermogenesis compromised the pups' ability to maintain huddle temperature, but surprisingly did not result in enhanced huddling at either age. These results suggest that effective huddling during cold exposure requires the thermal resources provided by endothermy. Furthermore, the heat provided by BAT appears to shape behavioral interactions in the huddle during development.
Cortical progenitor cells give rise to neurons during embryonic development and to glia after birth. While lineage studies indicate that multipotent progenitor cells are capable of generating both neurons and glia, the role of extracellular signals in regulating the sequential differentiation of these cells is poorly understood. To investigate how factors in the developing cortex might influence cell fate, we developed a cortical slice overlay assay in which cortical progenitor cells are cultured over cortical slices from different developmental stages. We find that embryonic cortical progenitors cultured over embryonic cortical slices differentiate into neurons and those cultured over postnatal cortical slices differentiate into glia, suggesting that the fate of embryonic progenitors can be influenced by developmentally regulated signals. In contrast, postnatal progenitor cells differentiate into glial cells when cultured over either embryonic or postnatal cortical slices. Clonal analysis indicates that the postnatal cortex produces a diffusible factor that induces progenitor cells to adopt glial fates at the expense of neuronal fates. The effects of the postnatal cortical signals on glial cell differentiation are mimicked by FGF2 and CNTF, which induce glial fate specification and terminal glial differentiation respectively. These observations indicate that cell fate specification and terminal differentiation can be independently regulated and suggest that the sequential generation of neurons and glia in the cortex is regulated by a developmental increase in gliogenic signals.
Sonic hedgehog (Shh) signaling patterns many vertebrate tissues. shh mutations dramatically affect mouse ventral forebrain and floor plate but produce minor defects in zebrafish. Zebrafish have two mammalian Shh orthologs, sonic hedgehog and tiggy-winkle hedgehog, and another gene, echidna hedgehog, that could have overlapping functions. To examine the role of Hedgehog signaling in zebrafish, we have characterized slow muscle omitted (smu) mutants. We show that smu encodes a zebrafish ortholog of Smoothened that transduces Hedgehog signals. Zebrafish smoothened is expressed maternally and zygotically and supports specification of motoneurons, pituitary cells and ventral forebrain. We propose that smoothened is required for induction of lateral floor plate and a subpopulation of hypothalamic cells and for maintenance of medial floor plate and hypothalamic cells.
Sonic hedgehog (Shh) is crucial for motoneuron development in chick and mouse. However, zebrafish embryos homozygous for a deletion of the shh locus have normal numbers of motoneurons, raising the possibility that zebrafish motoneurons may be specified differently. Unlike other vertebrates, zebrafish express three hh genes in the embryonic midline: shh, echidna hedgehog (ehh) and tiggywinkle hedgehog (twhh). Therefore, it is possible that Twhh and Ehh are sufficient for motoneuron formation in the absence of Shh. To test this hypothesis we have eliminated, or severely reduced, all three Hh signals using mutations that directly or indirectly reduce Hh signaling and antisense morpholinos. Our analysis shows that Hh signals are required for zebrafish motoneuron induction. However, each of the three zebrafish Hhs is individually dispensable for motoneuron development because the other two can compensate for its loss. Our results also suggest that Twhh and Shh are more important for motoneuron development than Ehh.
There are substantial declines in behavioral measures of cognitive function with age, including decreased function of executive processes and long-term memory. There is also evidence that, with age, there is a decrease in brain volume, particularly in the frontal cortex. When young and older adults perform cognitive tasks that depend heavily on frontal function, neuroimaging evidence indicates that older adults recruit additional brain regions in order to perform the tasks. This additional neural recruitment is termed &quot;dedifferentiation,&quot; and can take multiple forms. This recruitment of additional neural tissue with age to perform cognitive tasks was not reflected in the behavioral literature, and suggests that there is more plasticity in the ability to organize brain function than was previously suspected. We review both behavioral and neuroscience perspectives on cognitive aging, and then connect the findings in the two areas. From this integration, we suggest important unresolved questions and directions for future research.
The term sudden hypoacusis describes a hearing loss of rapid onset and unknown origin that can progress to severe deafness. Of the many therapeutic protocols that have been proposed for treating sudden hypoacusis, hyperbaric oxygen therapy (HOT) plays a leading role. We studied 50 patients who had been referred to our ENT unit within 48 hours of the onset of sudden hypoacusis. We randomly assigned 30 of these patients to undergo once-daily administration of HOT for 10 days; the other 20 patients were treated for 10 days with an intravenous vasodilator. Response to therapy in all patients was evaluated by calculating the mean hearing threshold at frequencies between 500 and 4,000 Hz and by assessing liminal tonal audiometry results recorded at baseline and 10 days after the cessation of treatment. These results, plus the findings of other audiologic and otoneurologic examinations, revealed that the patients in the HOT group experienced a significantly greater response to treatment than did those in the vasodilator group, regardless of age and sex variables. Significantly more patients in the HOT group experienced a good or significant response. In both groups, patients with pantonal hypoacusis responded significantly better than did those with a milder condition. Based on our findings, coupled with the fact that oxygen therapy is well tolerated and produces no side effects, we conclude that HOT should be considered the preferred treatment for patients with sudden hypoacusis.

Brain malformations are now widely recognized in many forms of epilepsy. To investigate how malformed brain regions participate in the generation of seizure activity researchers have focused on animal models. Here we describe recent advances in this field.
We present the first evidence of a T lymphocyte response to N-formylated peptides in humans. N-formylated peptide sequences from self (mitochondrial) and foreign (microbial) antigens were used to isolate antigen-specific T cell clones from healthy individuals, including a set of monozygotic twins. The observed response differed from that previously described in mouse (CD4(+) phenotype and MHC class II restriction in humans vs. CD8(+) phenotype and class I restriction in mice). These lymphocytes produce substantial amounts of IFN-gamma. They were isolated in only one of the monozygotic twins, which suggests that their expansion in the healthy immune repertoire is independent of the genetic background. Our result will help in assessing the relevance of N-formylated peptide-specific T cells in protection against infections within the human immune system.
