The prefrontal cortex (PFC) of the rat supports cognitive flexibility, the ability to spontaneously adapt goal-directed behavior in response to radically changing situational demands. We have shown previously that transient inactivation of the rat medial PFC (mPFC) impairs initial reversal learning in a spatial 2-lever discrimination task. Given the importance of dopamine (DA) for PFC function, we studied DA (and noradrenaline [NA]) efflux in the mPFC during reversal learning. We observed a higher and more extended increase in DA efflux in rats performing the first reversal compared with controls performing the previously acquired discrimination. The results of an additional experiment suggest that such a difference between the reversal- and control-induced DA increases was absent during a third reversal. During the extinction session, DA efflux did not increase from basal levels. Increases in NA efflux were less than in DA and did not differ between control and any condition. We conclude that prefrontal DA activity is increased during execution of instrumental discrimination tasks and that this increase is amplified during the acquisition of a first, but not of later reversals. These data corroborate our previous findings and indicate that DA is critically involved in this form of cognitive flexibility.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) of the cortex can modify activity noninvasively and produce either excitatory or inhibitory effects, depending on stimulus parameters. Here we demonstrate controlled inhibitory effects on the large corticogeniculate feedback pathway from primary visual cortex to cells of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (dLGN) that are focal and reversible-induced by either single pulses or trains of pulses of TMS. These effects selectively suppress the sustained component of responses to flashed spots or moving grating stimuli and are the result of loss of spikes fired in tonic mode, whereas the number of spikes fired in bursts remain the same. We conclude that acute inactivation of the corticogeniculate downflow selectively affects the tonic mode. We found no evidence to suggest that cortical inactivation increased burst frequency.
Although some change in the neural representation of an object must occur as it becomes familiar, the nature of this change is not fully understood. In humans, it has been shown that the N170-an evoked visual potential-is enhanced for classes of objects for which people have visual expertise. In this study, we explored whether monkeys show a similar modulation in event-related potential (ERP) amplitude as a result of long-term familiarity by recording ERPs with chronically implanted electrodes over extended training periods spanning many sessions. In each of 3 experiments, we found larger amplitude visual evoked responses to highly familiar images for the time period of 120-250 ms after stimulus onset. This difference was found when the monkeys were trained in an individual-level discrimination task, in a task that required only color discrimination, and even following a viewing-only task. We thus observed this familiarity effect across several tasks and different object categories and further found that the difference between &quot;familiar&quot; and &quot;novel&quot; became smaller as the animals gained experience with the previously unfamiliar objects across multiple test sessions. These data suggest that changes in visual responses associated with familiarity are evident early in the evoked visual response, are robust, and may be automatic, driven at least in part by repeated object exposure.
Recent proposals have conceptualized piriform cortex as an association cortex, capable of integrating incoming olfactory information with descending input from higher order associative regions such as orbitofrontal cortex and basolateral amygdala (ABL). If true, encoding in piriform cortex should reflect associative features prominent in these areas during associative learning involving olfactory cues. We recently reported that neurons in anterior piriform cortex (APC) in rats exhibited significant plasticity in their responses to odor cues during associative learning. Here, we have repeated this study, recording from neurons in posterior piriform cortex (PPC), a region of piriform cortex that receives much stronger input from ABL. If associative encoding in piriform cortex is driven by inputs from ABL, then we should see more plasticity in PPC neurons than we observed in APC. Consistent with this hypothesis, we found that PPC neurons were highly associative and appeared to be somewhat more likely than neurons recorded in APC to alter their responses to the odor cues after reversal of the odor-outcome associations in the task. Further, odor-selective PPC populations exhibited markedly different firing patterns based on the valence of the odor cue. These results suggest associative encoding in piriform cortex is represented in a topographical fashion, reflecting the stronger and more specific input from olfactory bulb concerning the sensory features of odors in anterior regions and stronger input from ABL concerning the meaning of odors in posterior regions.


We investigate whether children with Grammatical Specific Language Impairment (G-SLI) are also phonologically impaired and, if so, what the nature of that impairment is. We focus on the prosodic complexity of words, based on their syllabic and metrical (stress) structure, and investigate this using a novel non-word repetition procedure, the Test of Phonological Structure (TOPhS). Participants with G-SLI (aged 12-20 years) were compared to language-matched, typically developing children (aged 4-8 years). The results reveal that, in contrast to the controls, the accuracy with which the G-SLI group repeated non-words decreased as prosodic complexity increased, even in non-words with only one- and two-syllables. The study indicates that, in G-SLI, complexity deficits in morphology and syntax can extend to prosodic phonology. The study highlights the importance of taking into account prosodic complexity in phonological assessment and the design of non-word repetition procedures.


Prednisone (PDN) impairs cognitive functioning and brain structures in humans and animals. Deflazacort (DFZ) is a synthetic glucocorticoid claimed to have lesser side effects than prednisone. The objective of this study was to assess whether chronic administration (90 days) of DFZ produces less neuronal degeneration and glial reactivity than PDN. Male Swiss-Wistar rats were studied. Controls received 0.1 ml distilled water orally. The PDN group received prednisone 5 mg per kg per day orally, and the DFZ group received deflazacort 6 mg per kg per day orally. This model had to be assembled in three different occasions due to excess mortality in the DFZ group. A fourth model was assembled using only the DFZ group and slides of water and PDN-exposed rats from a previous study were used as comparators. The index of degenerated neurons and the number and cytoplasmic transformation of astrocytes and microglia cells were evaluated in the prefrontal cortex, CA1, and CA3 hippocampus. The results show that the overall mortality was 49% in the DFZ group, 4.5% in the PDN group, and none of the controls died. Routine necropsy showed infection in multiple organs. The PDN group had two times higher neuronal degeneration in the prefrontal cortex, almost 11 times in CA1, and four times in CA3 hippocampus when compared with controls and DFZ group. Astrocytes reactivity was increased in the PDN- and DFZ-exposed rats compared with controls. The DFZ group showed an average of four times less microgial cells in the three studied regions when compared with controls and the PDN group. In conclusion, it seems that DFZ at the equivalent licensed dose produced a stronger immunosuppressive effect--systemic and in brain tissue--than PDN, but induced less neuronal damage. The immunosuppressant magnitude of DFZ should be further studied in clinical settings.
Our present view that the mood disorders involve dysfunction of monoaminergic system is a result of important clinical and preclinical observations over the past 40 years. The therapeutic efficacy of drugs such as the tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), monoamine oxidase inhibitors, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and lately of SNRIs (serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors) helped to shape our view that mood regulation involves the monoaminergic systems in some way. It is thus little surprising when the neuropeptide, galanin, is discovered to coexist with norepinephrine (NE) in locus coeruleus (LC) neurons and with serotonin (5-HT) in the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) neurons, a link between galanin mediated signaling and mood regulation is sought. Galanin receptors are expressed in brain structures that are involved in the regulation of mood such as frontal cortex, amygdala, hypothalamus, LC, DRN and hippocampus. It is almost an accident of research fate that the potent effects of galanin on cognitive performance and seizure threshold have led galanin research to focus on the hippocampus where the neuropeptide is present in cholinergic and noradrenergic afferents and where the receptor density is much lower than in the monoaminergic nuclei. Hopefully it is not too late to report on the recent inroads into the roles of galanin and of galanin receptor subtypes 2 and 3 (GalR2 and GalR3) in mood regulation in animal models as well as in human patients with major depression. A body of existing data suggests that GalR2 signaling leads to antidepressant-like, anticonvulsant and neurogenesis-promoting effects, a spectrum of activities that are commonly associated with efficacious antidepressants. Similarly, GalR3 antagonists exhibit anxiolytic and antidepressant-like activity, another clinically useful combination for the treatment of mood disorders. Since both GalR2 and GalR3 are G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs), a favorite target class for drug development, we believe that the pace of developing galaninergic antidepressants will increase significantly from now on.
Significant neuropsychologic sequelae were induced by total removal of craniopharyngioma via a frontobasal interhemispheric approach. A 50-year-old right-handed man developed severe amnesic syndrome and collecting behavior after total removal of a craniopharyngioma. He had very poor results on tests of learning, recall, and recognition for both verbal and nonverbal tasks. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed damage to the bilateral mammillary bodies and fornices, and N-isopropyl-p-[23I]iodoamphetamine single photon emission computed tomography showed decreased cerebral blood flow in the bilateral frontal lobes, predominantly in the right, and regions around the third ventricle. The present case suggests that damage to the brain structures surrounding the third ventricle associated with surgery for craniopharyngioma may result in amnesic syndrome and collecting behavior. Generally, the frontobasal interhemispheric approach is the optimum choice for the removal of craniopharyngioma without significant sequelae related to the surgical method, but the risk of neuropsychologic disturbances must be kept in mind.
We investigated the postlexical processes in writing Chinese characters by studying the delayed copying performance of a Chinese dysgraphic patient, W.L.Z. His delayed copying difficulty could not be attributed to peripheral motor deficit and could not be readily explained by lexical or semantic factors. Instead, the copying performance was sensitive to a word length variable (number of logographemes), and the most prevalent errors were logographeme substitutions. Furthermore, in the substitution errors, the target logographemes and responses tended to share visual/motoric attributes. We propose that the delayed copying difficulty reflects a deficit to the buffering component in writing (coined &quot;logographeme output buffer&quot;), and the universality and language-specific features of the output buffer in writing are discussed.
We report on neuropsychological testing done with a family in which many members reported severe face recognition impairments. These 10 individuals were high functioning in everyday life and performed normally on tests of low-level vision and high-level cognition. In contrast, they showed clear deficits with tests requiring face memory and judgements of facial similarity. They did not show deficits with all aspects of higher level visual processing as all tested performed normally on a challenging facial emotion recognition task and on a global-local letter identification task. On object memory tasks requiring recognition of particular cars and guns, they showed significant deficits so their recognition impairments were not restricted to facial identity. These results strongly suggest the existence of a genetic condition leading to a selective deficit of visual recognition.
The aim of the present study was to investigate, with repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS), the involvement of posterior parietal lobule (PPL) circuits in producing the Simon effect and the spatial-numerical association of response codes (SNARC) effect. The Simon effect is indexed by faster responses to left-side stimuli with left- than with right-side key-presses and faster responses to right-side stimuli with right- than with left-side key-presses. The SNARC effect is indexed by faster responses to smaller numbers with left- than with right-side key-presses and faster responses to larger numbers with right- than with left-side key-presses. Participants were required to perform a parity judgement on numbers ranging from 1 to 9 (without 5), by pressing a left or a right response key. The numbers were presented to either the left or the right side of fixation. Two bilateral PPL areas lying along the intraparietal sulcus (IPS) were stimulated with rTMS. Results suggested a causal role of the anterior portion of PPL of both hemispheres in the Simon effect and of the posterior portion of PPL of both hemispheres in the Simon effect and the SNARC effect.
We evaluated the usefulness of a treatment manual to facilitate the use of long-acting injectable risperidone in community mental health centers (CMHCs) during an open-label observational study. Perceived clinical utility and clinician adherence to the manual were evaluated. Patient adherence to treatment satisfaction, Clinical Global Impression of Severity (CGI-S) and the Schizophrenia Quality-of-Life Scale (SQLS) were assessed. Mean score for overall utility of the guidebook was 4.2 +/- .6 (scale ratings ranged from 1 = not at all to 5 = extremely). Most clinicians (89-100%) found the guidebook useful, and were adherent to key aspects of appropriate treatment use including concomitant oral risperidone use and injection and dosing parameters for long-acting risperidone. Most patients were adherent to treatment (86.7%), preferred long-acting risperidone over oral risperidone (72.6%) or other oral antipsychotics (78.4%) and were satisfied with long-acting risperidone (90.1%). The open-label observational design limits interpretation of these data. However, in this study manual-supported use of long-acting risperidone was associated with successful implementation of this pharmacologic treatment in the CMHC setting.
Different physiological adaptations for anoxia resistance have been described in the animal kingdom. These adaptations are particularly important in organs that are highly susceptible to energy deprivation such as the heart and brain. Among vertebrates, turtles are one of the species that are highly tolerant to anoxia. In mammals however, insults such as anoxia, ischemia and hypoglycemia, all cause major histopathological events to the brain. However, in mammals even ischemic or anoxic tolerance is found when a sublethal ischemic/anoxic insult is induced sometime before a lethal ischemic/anoxic insult is induced. This phenomenon is defined as ischemic preconditioning. Better understanding of the mechanisms inducing both anoxic tolerance in turtles or ischemic preconditioning in mammals may provide novel therapeutic interventions that may aide mammalian brain to resist the ravages of cerebral ischemia. In this review, we will summarize some of the mechanisms implemented in both models of tolerance, emphasizing physiological and biochemical similarities.
This report concerns the fragmented visual percepts in a woman, TR, following a right entorhinal-perirhinal infarct. In a previous report, Weddell [Weddell, R. A. (2005). A visual disorder producing highly selective deletion of recurring letters. Cortex, 41, 471-485] linked TR's highly selective tendency to delete recurrent letters with her fragmented percepts. The conflation of same-identity form elements was attributed to anterior extrastriate damage, which reduced the amount of information sustainable in fully resolved visual percepts, and the present experimental investigation of her subjective account of segment formation and resolution completes the story. She said that complex objects and long words first appeared as blurred regions, which sometimes included form elements. It is argued that figure-centred attentional mechanisms subdivided this blurred region into up to 3-4 parts. String length, lexical status (word vs. nonword), and background colour and/or luminance determined fragment length. Two rules described the fragment resolution sequence: largest segments usually resolved first, left-to-right resolution accounting for a few sequences. This resolution sequence occurred when stimuli were exposed too briefly for saccadic exploration, implicating endogenous attentional shifts. Experiment 4 confirmed TR's assertion that spatial, orthographic, and phonological information were stored during the fragment resolution process. Moreover, TR exerted considerable voluntarily control over the fragment resolution sequence and some influence over fragment length. Finally, these findings were interpreted in terms of an extended version of a neural network model of vision largely derived from nonhuman primate studies.
Subjects estimated the time of intentions to perform an action, of the action itself, or of an auditory effect of the action. A perceptual attraction or binding effect occurred between actions and the effects that followed them. Judgements of intentions did not show this binding, suggesting they are represented independently of actions and their effects. In additional unpredictable judgement conditions, subjects were instructed only after each trial which of these events to judge, thus discouraging focussed attention to a specific event. Stronger binding effects were found, with intention, action and effect fusing to a single central point in time. In a control task, subjects reported the time of the first or second tone in sequence. Tone sequences showed no binding at all when subjects knew in advance which tone to judge, but showed the same fusion as actions when the event to be judged was not predictable. Binding of actions and effects, but not of tone sequences, occurs pre-attentively, and automatically. The data are consistent with a reconstructive process, implemented after actions, which generates a coherent sense of agency. However, this process should only be triggered only when our actions make it appropriate. We suggest that this mechanism is triggered in advance by efferent processing. This conclusion was supported by a further study in deafferented subject IW. This subject showed the normal binding of a tone towards an action, although his experience of the action was of pre-motor, rather than peripheral origin. The experience of intentional action involves an interplay between pre-motor and reconstructive processes.
Prior to the initiation of spontaneous movement, evoked potentials can be seen to precede awareness of the impending movement by several hundreds of milliseconds, meaning that this recorded neural activity is the result of unconscious processing. This study investigates the neural representations of impending movement with and without awareness. Specifically, the relationship between awareness and 'idling' cortical oscillations in the beta range (18-24Hz) was assessed. It was found that, in situations where there was awareness of the impending movement, pre-movement evoked potentials were associated with a decrease in beta range oscillations. In contrast, when awareness of the impending movement was not present, the onset of the pre-movement potential was associated with tonic levels of beta range oscillations. A model is considered where by distributed neural activity remains outside of conscious awareness through the persistence of tonic slow wave cortical oscillations.
Language anomalies and left-hemisphere dysfunction are commonly reported in schizophrenia. Additional evidence also suggests differences in the integration of information between the hemispheres. Bilateral gain is the increase in accuracy and decrease in latency that occurs when identical information is presented simultaneously to both hemispheres. This study measured bilateral gain in controls (n=20) and individuals with schizophrenia (n=10) using a lexical-decision task where word or non-word judgements were made to letter strings presented in the left visual field (LVF), right visual field (RVF) or bilaterally (BVF). Language was not abnormally lateralized in the schizophrenia group. Controls exhibited the expected decrease in latency when words were presented bilaterally. This effect was not observed in the schizophrenia group who were actually disadvantaged in this condition. The lack of bilateral gain in schizophrenia is discussed as arising from differences in the connections between areas in each hemisphere that mediate language.
Gene transfer to a transected peripheral nerve or avulsed nerve root is discussed to be helpful where neurosurgical peripheral nerve reconstruction alone will not result in full recovery of function. Axonal regeneration is supposed to be facilitated by this new therapeutic approach via delivery of specific regeneration promoting molecules as well as survival proteins for the injured sensory and motor neurons. Therefore gene therapy aims in long-term and site-specific delivery of those neurotrophic factors. This paper reviews methods and perspectives for gene therapy to promote functional recovery of severely injured and thereafter reconstructed peripheral nerves. Experimental in vivo and ex vivo gene therapy approaches are reported by different groups. In vivo gene therapy generally uses direct injection of cDNA vectors to injured peripheral nerves. Ex vivo gene therapy is based on the isolation of autologous cells followed by genetic modification of these cells in vitro and re-transplantation of the modified cells to the patient as part of tissue engineered nerve transplants. Vectors of different origin are published to be suitable for peripheral nerve gene therapy and this review discusses the different strategies with regard to their efficiency in gene transfer, their risks and their potential relevance for clinical application.
Clustered imprinted genes are regulated by differentially methylated imprinting control regions (ICRs) that affect gene activity and repression in cis over a large region. Although a primary imprint signal for each of these clusters is DNA methylation, different mechanisms are used to establish and maintain these marks. The majority of ICRs are methylated in the maternal germline and are usually promoters for antisense transcripts whose elongation is associated with imprinting control in the domain. In contrast, ICRs methylated in the paternal germline do not appear to act as promoters and are located between genes. At least one, at the Igf2/H19 locus, is known to function as an insulator. Analysis of ICRs suggests that maternal and paternal methylation imprints function in distinct ways.


Bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) is widely used for labeling dividing cells to determine their fate. In particular, the analysis of neurogenesis in the adult mammalian brain has made significant progress through the use of this technique. However; when using BrdU for labeling, there are several issues to consider in order to minimalize possible cytotoxicity or false-positive labeling. This current review summarizes methodological and technical aspects of BrdU administration and detection, compares alternative methods and gives recommendations on how to avoid labeling artifacts.
Since the discovery of endogenous progenitor cells in two brain regions in the adult, the notion that progenitor cells might be useful for repairing damaged neurons or replacing dead neurons has gone from fiction to a reality, at least in the laboratory setting. Progenitor cells have the unique ability to be able to produce new neurons in response to endogenous and exogenous cues from their microenvironment in the brain and from the environment of the organism. However, in models of several disorders and insults the regenerative potential of the central nervous system need external enhancing. In this review we begin by focussing on the developments in the field of neurobiology that have led to the specific study of neural progenitor cell biology. In particular we discuss the two germinal niches, the subventricular zone and the subgranular zone, as well as how various neurological diseases affect these niches. We furthermore try to define primary progenitor cell disorders and secondary progenitor cell responses. The second part of this review focuses on proteomic approaches for studying progenitor cells. These techniques allow the array of proteins that are expressed by progenitor cells to be determined and further more allow comparisons between diseased and normal cells or treated and untreated cell populations. If we can induce neural progenitor cells to generate functional neurons in the central nervous system (CNS) then the burden of neurological disorders may be eased in the future. The advances in proteomic technology have and will enable further understanding of the regulatory processes in these cells so that progenitor cell integration and differentiation can be enhanced. Hopefully an increase in knowledge of progenitor cell biology will have a major impact on clinical practice.
Ischemic stroke is burdened with a high morbidity and mortality in our society. However, there are few effective and largely available therapies for this devastating disease. In additon to advancing acute reperfusion therapies, there is a need to develop treatments aimed to promote repair and regeneration of brain tissue damaged by ischemia (neurorecovery). Therapeutic angiogenesis and vasculogenesis represent novel approaches of regenerative medicine that may help in the cure of patients with acute ischemic stroke. Translation of our knowledge about these processes from the bench to bedside is still underway. Although angiogenesis (the sprouting of new blood vessels from pre-existing vascular structures) is likely to contribute to neurorepair, the finality of the angiogenic response in acute ischemic stroke has not been fully elucidated. The first therapeutic approach to angiogenesis after ischemic stroke would be the modulation of the endogenous angiogenic response. In this setting, early instauration of physical activity, statins, and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma agonists may enhance angiogenesis and neuroregeneration. Gene therapy with vascular growth factors has been successfully tested in patients affected by chronic myocardial and peripheral ischemia. Regarding brain ischemia, experiments in animal models have shown that the effect of these growth factors is critically affected by the dosage, route of delivery, and time of administration in relation to stroke onset. In addition, the optimal angiogenic substance is unknown. Finally, vectors for gene transfer should be further optimized. Therapeutic vasculogenesis consists of the administration of exogenous endothelial progenitor cells in order to enhance brain repair processes. Endothelial progenitor cells may be recruited in response to cerebral ischemia and participate in reparative vasculogenesis after acute ischemic stroke. Further research is needed to clarify their role and therapeutic applicability in human brain ischemia.
Autophagy/macroautophagy is known for its role in cellular homeostasis, development, cell survival, aging, immunity, cancer and neurodegeneration. However, until recently, the mechanisms by which autophagy contributes to these important processes were largely unknown. The demonstration of a direct cross-talk between autophagy and NF-kappaB opens up new frontiers for deciphering the role of autophagy in diverse biological processes. Here, we review our current understanding of autophagy, with a focus on its role in tumor suppression, NF-kappaB inactivation and selective protein degradation in mammals. We also list some most intriguing and outstanding questions that are likely to engage researchers in the near future.
This study concerns life satisfaction and its determinants in Dutch young adults with spina bifida (SB). Data on life satisfaction (Life Satisfaction Questionnaire [LiSat-9]) were related to hydrocephalus, lesion level, disabilities, and demographic variables. In total, 179 young adults with SB participated (41% male, age range 16-25y; 79% SB aperta, 67% hydrocephalus [HC], 39% wheelchair-dependent). Most were satisfied with their life as a whole (24% dissatisfied). No difference was found from a population reference group (28% dissatisfied). Highest proportions of dissatisfaction were found for financial situation (44%), partnership relations (49%), and sex life (55%). Least dissatisfaction was found for contact with friends (17%) and families (15%). Young adults with SB and HC were more satisfied with their financial situation and family life but were less satisfied with self-care ability and partnership relations than those without HC and the reference group. However, except for self-care ability, relationships between life satisfaction and having SB were weak. In conclusion, self-care ability and partnership relations were rated least favourable and may need more attention from care providers. Overall, SB does not seem to be an important determinant of life satisfaction.
Little is known about the role of the hindbrain during development of spinal network activity. We set out to identify the activity patterns of reticulospinal (RS) neurons of the hindbrain in fictively swimming (paralyzed) zebrafish larvae. Simultaneous recordings of RS neurons and spinal motoneurons revealed that these were coactive during spontaneous fictive swim episodes. We characterized four types of RS activity patterns during fictive swimming: (i) a spontaneous pattern of discharges resembling evoked high-frequency spiking during startle responses to touch stimuli, (ii) a rhythmic pattern of excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) whose frequency was similar to the motoneuron EPSP frequency during swim episodes, (iii) an arrhythmic pattern consisting of tonic firing throughout swim episodes, and (iv) RS cell activity uncorrelated with motoneuron activity. Despite lesions to the rostral spinal cord that prevented ascending spinal axons from entering the hindbrain (normally starting at approximately 20 h), RS neurons continued to display the aforementioned activity patterns at day 3. However, removal of the caudal portion of the hindbrain prior to the descent of RS axons left the spinal cord network unable to generate the rhythmic oscillations normally elicited by application of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA), but in approximately 40% of cases chronic incubation in NMDA maintained rhythmic activity. We conclude that there is an autonomous embryonic hindbrain network that is necessary for proper development of the spinal central pattern generator, and that the hindbrain network can partially develop independently of ascending input.
NG2(+) cells in the adult rat spinal cord proliferate after spinal cord injury (SCI) and are postulated to differentiate into mature glia to replace some of those lost to injury. To further study these putative endogenous precursors, tissue at 3 days after SCI or from uninjured adults was dissociated, myelin partially removed and replicate cultures grown in serum-containing or serum-free medium with or without growth factors for up to 7 days in vitro (DIV). Cell yield after SCI was 5-6 times higher than from the normal adult. Most cells were OX42(+) microglia/macrophages but there were also more than twice the normal number of NG2(+) cells. Most of these coexpressed A2B5 or nestin, as would be expected for glial progenitors. Few cells initially expressed mature astrocyte (GFAP) or oligodendrocyte (CC1) markers, but more did at 7 DIV, suggesting differentiation of glial precursors in vitro. To test the hypothesis that NG2(+) cells after SCI express progenitor-like properties, we prepared free-floating sphere and single cell cultures from purified suspension of NG2(+) cells from injured spinal cord. We found that sphere cultures could be passaged in free-floating subcultures, and upon attachment the spheres clonally derived from an acutely purified single cell differentiated into oligodendrocytes and rarely astrocytes. Taken together, these data support the hypothesis that SCI stimulates proliferation of NG2(+) cells that are glial progenitor cells. Better understanding the intrinsic properties of the NG2(+) cells stimulated by SCI may permit future therapeutic manipulations to improve recovery after SCI.
It is now well established that new proteins are synthesized in the distal segments of elongating axons, where they may play an essential role in some guidance decisions. It remains unclear, however, whether distal protein synthesis also plays an essential role in axon growth per se. Previous in vitro experiments have shown that blocking protein synthesis in distal axons has no effect on the rate of axonal advance. However, because these experiments were performed in vitro and over a relatively short time period, the role of distal protein synthesis over longer periods and in a native tissue environment remained untested. Here, we tested whether protein synthesis in distal axons plays an essential role in the elongation of descending axons in the embryonic spinal cord. We developed an in situ model of the brainstem-spinal projection of the embryonic chick, and developed a split-chamber method in which inhibitors of proteins synthesis could be applied independently to cell bodies in the brainstem or to distal axons in the spinal cord. When protein synthesis was blocked in distal axons, axon growth remained robust for 2 days, which is the length of the experiment. However, when protein synthesis was blocked only in the brainstem, axonal elongation in the spinal cord ceased within 6 h. These data showed that protein synthesis in the distal axon is not essential to continue the advance of axons. Rather, essential proteins are synthesized more proximally and then transported rapidly to the distal axon.
Members of the Cas family of Src homology 3 (SH3)-domain-containing cytosolic signaling proteins are crucial regulators of actin cytoskeletal dynamics in non-neuronal cells; however, their neuronal functions are poorly understood. Here, we identify a Drosophila Cas (DCas), find that Cas proteins are highly expressed in neurons and show that DCas is required for correct axon guidance during development. Functional analyses reveal that Cas specifies axon guidance by regulating the degree of fasciculation among axons. These guidance defects are similar to those observed in integrin mutants, and genetic analysis shows that integrins function together with Cas to facilitate axonal defasciculation. These results strongly support Cas proteins working together with integrins in vivo to direct axon guidance events.
Hyperalgesia to noxious stimuli is accompanied by increased spinal cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 protein in diabetic rats. The present studies were initiated to establish causality between increased spinal COX-2 activity and hyperalgesia during diabetes and to assess the potential involvement of polyol pathway activity in the pathogenesis of spinally mediated hyperalgesia. Rats with 1, 2, or 4 weeks of streptozotocin-induced diabetes exhibited significantly increased levels of spinal COX-2 protein and activity, along with exaggerated paw flinching in response to 0.5% paw formalin injection. Increased flinching of diabetic rats was attenuated by intrathecal pretreatment with a selective COX-2 inhibitor immediately before formalin injection, confirming the involvement of COX-2 activity in diabetic hyperalgesia. Chronic treatment with insulin or ICI222155, an aldose reductase inhibitor (ARI) previously shown to prevent spinal polyol accumulation and formalin-evoked hyperalgesia in diabetic rats, prevented elevated spinal COX-2 protein and activity in diabetic rats. In contrast, the ARI IDD676 had no effect on spinal polyol accumulation, elevated spinal COX-2, or hyperalgesia to paw formalin injection. In the spinal cord, aldose reductase immunoreactivity was present solely in oligodendrocytes, which also contained COX-2 immunoreactivity. Polyol pathway flux in spinal oligodendrocytes provides a pathogenic mechanism linking hyperglycemia to hyperalgesia in diabetic rats.
In mammalian cells, 8-oxoguanine DNA glycosylase-1 (OGG1) is the main DNA glycosylase for the removal of 8-oxoguanine (8-oxoG). 8-oxoG, one of the most common products of the oxidative attack of DNA, is a premutagenic lesion that accumulates spontaneously at high frequencies in the genome. In this study, Ogg1 mRNA expression was detected throughout embryonic development in mice. In situ hybridization showed that in the neonatal brain, Ogg1 expression was detected in a distinct layer of cells in the medial wall of the lateral ventricle, which may correspond to ependymal cells, and in some scattered cells in the subventricular zone (SVZ), a brain region rich in neural stem/progenitor cells. Using neurospheres as a model for the study of neural stem/progenitor cells, we found that both the expression and activity of Ogg1 were high in neurospheres derived from newborn mice and decreased in adults and upon induction of cell differentiation. Furthermore, Ogg1 was shown to be the major DNA glycosylase initiating 8-oxoG repair in neurospheres. Our results strongly indicate that enhanced DNA repair capacity is an important mechanism by which neural stem/progenitor cells maintain their genome.
Orphan nuclear receptors provide a unique resource for uncovering novel regulatory systems that impact human health and also provide drug targets for a variety of human diseases. Ligands of nuclear receptors have been used in several important therapeutic areas, such as breast cancers, skin disorders and diabetes. Orphan nuclear receptors, therefore, represent a tremendous opportunity in understanding and treating human diseases. Here, I highlight recent advances in the use of orphan nuclear receptors and their potential as targets for drug discovery in diabetes, obesity, neurodegenerative diseases and other related disorders.
Parkinson's disease is associated with dementia in about 40% of cases, and in time up to 80% of patients will develop dementia. This dementia is characterized by deficits in attention, executive function and memory. While, as in Alzheimer's disease, cholinergic dysfunction has long been identified to be related to the cognitive impairment in Parkinson's dementia, the fear of exacerbating the motor symptoms of the disorder has greatly hindered research into the anticholinesterases as symptomatic treatments for the cognitive and psychiatric deficits. However, following a number of successful open-label trials with anticholinesterases, a large, international, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of the effects of rivastigmine in the dementia associated with Parkinson's disease has been conducted. Rivastigmine was found to significantly improve all of the primary and secondary endpoints in the study, showing benefits to cognitive function, neuropsychiatric complaints and activities of daily living. Cognitive improvements were seen on the Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale cognitive subscale, the Mini Mental State Examination, the attention battery of the Cognitive Drug Research computerized assessment system, word fluency and clock drawing. An open-label extension to the study suggested that the beneficial effects persisted up to 48 weeks. While the improvements seen with rivastigmine on the various measures have been described as modest by some commentators, rivastigmine is now widely registered for the symptomatic treatment of mild to moderate dementia associated with Parkinson's disease. A treatment is now available for a previously unmet medical need.
The behavioural factors that drive a normal weight woman to embark on a diet and to look for nutritional support in weight loss clinics are still not completely understood. A pilot cross-sectional study was carried out in 70 young (age range: 18-35 yr), normal weight women attending a weight loss clinic in South of Italy (Naples). They were compared to a population of 94 normal weight students (age range:17-23 yr) who had never attended a weight loss clinic. Subjects with eating disorders have been excluded. Weight and height were measured and body mass index (BMI) was calculated. Eating behaviour was assessed using a validated Italian version of the Eating Disorders Inventory (EDI) questionnaire. The two groups were matched for BMI (22.4 vs 22.1 kg/m2), smoking and physical activity. Students were more educated and less likely to be on a diet at the time of the study. Students had statistically significant lower scores for drive for thinness, body dissatisfaction, inadequacy and interpersonal disrupt. The bulimia scale was the only significant predictor (p&lt;0.05) of BMI in the patients' group; body dissatisfaction (p&lt;0.05) predicted BMI in the control group. This study has shown that weight concern and health awareness are not the only factors that lead a normal weight woman to look for nutritional counselling but there is an underlying substrate of psychological and social distress behind the request, which should be properly assessed before starting any nutritional therapy in the clinical practice.
Protein phosphorylation plays a major role in most cell-signaling pathways in all eukaryotic cells. Disruptions in phosphorylation-mediated cell-signaling events are associated with various diseases, including cancer. Here, we applied a fully non-gel-based methodology to obtain an initial panel of phosphoproteins from the LNCaP human prostate cancer cell line. The analytical strategy involved enrichment of phosphopeptides by immobilized metal ion affinity chromatography, the use of POROS Oligo R3 to capture phosphopeptides that were not retained with a C18 packing, and gas-phase fractionation in the m/z dimension to extend the dynamic range of the LC-MS/MS analysis. In this pilot investigation, 137 phosphorylation sites in 81 phosphoproteins were identified. The characterized phosphoproteins include kinases, co-regulators of steroid receptors, and a number of cancer-related proteins.
The novel somatostatin receptor agonist pasireotide binds with high affinity to somatostatin receptors SSTR1, 2, 3, and 5. Acting principally through the latter, it inhibits basal and CRH-stimulated ACTH secretion from the AtT20 corticotroph cell line and ACTH release from a proportion of human corticotroph adenomas both in vitro and in vivo. Data supporting an additional antiproliferative effect has led to pasireotide being explored as a potential therapy for patients with Cushing's disease. We have compared the effects of pasireotide and octreotide on adrenalectomy-induced mitotic and apoptotic activity in the male rat anterior pituitary. Adrenalectomized rats were treated with daily sc injections of vehicle, pasireotide, or octreotide. Changes in proliferation and apoptosis were determined 2-6 d postoperatively. Pasireotide and octreotide had no effect on baseline pituitary cell turnover and no measurable effects on apoptosis. However, the wave of increased mitotic activity normally seen in the pituitary after adrenalectomy was completely abolished. Nevertheless, pasireotide and octreotide did not diminish the increase in ACTH-immunopositive cell index after adrenalectomy, indicating that cell division and differentiation of hormonally null cells in the pituitary are under independent control. In conclusion, basal cell turnover in the pituitary is not inhibited by pasireotide or octreotide. Bilateral adrenalectomy stimulates differentiation of preexisting null cells into ACTH-positive cells. Cell division after bilateral adrenalectomy occurs in a specific subpopulation of hormonally null cells that are equally sensitive to the antiproliferative effects of pasireotide and octreotide, implicating SSTR2 receptors in this antimitotic response.

Numerous studies have shown significant effects of weightlessness on adaptational processes of the CNS, cardiovascular and/or muscular system. Most of these studies have been carried out during parabolic flights, using the recurring 20 s of weightlessness at each parabola. Although some of these studies reported on potential influences not only of weightlessness but also of the stressful situation within a parabolic flight, especially provoked by the ongoing changes between 1.8, 1 and 0 G, so far there seems to be only marginal information about objective parameters of stress evoked by parabolic flights. By collecting blood samples from a permanent venous catheter several times during parabolic flights, we were able to show an increase of prolactin, cortisol and ACTH in the course of a 120 min flight. We conclude, therefore, that previous reported effects of weightlessness on adaptational processes may be affected not only by weightlessness but also by the exposure to other stressors experienced within the environment of a Zero-G airbus.
Cladribine (2-chlorodeoxyadenosine) is an immunosuppressant drug previously evaluated in multiple sclerosis (MS) with variable results. We report six patients with aggressive relapsing MS who despite a poor response to other therapies had a favourable clinical evolution after cladribine. Four women and two men with a rapid increase in the number and severity of relapses leading to increasing disability [mean Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) 6.42, standard deviation +/- 0.58, mean relapse rate per year in the 2 years prior to study entry 2.67 +/- 0.75] were retrospectively evaluated. Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) performed in five patients showed active disease with gadolinium-enhancing lesions. Cladribine was given at 0.07 mg/kg/day for five consecutive days once monthly with a total of 2- to 4-monthly courses. After 6 months, mean EDSS decreased to 3.75 +/- 1.64 and MRIs showed a decrease or suppression in the number of gadolinium-enhancing lesions. After 1 year from first dose, cladribine dosage was repeated in four patients because of recurrence of relapses with subsequent similar positive clinical results. In the follow-up period (49.33 +/- 39.66 months), the mean relapse rate decreased to 0.71 +/- 0.55 and no unexpected or serious adverse events were observed.
Evidence suggests the important role of vascular factors both in vascular dementia (VaD) and Alzheimer disease (AD) pathogenesis. However, the relationship between apolipoprotein E (APOE) polymorphism and markers of atherosclerosis is still controversial. The aim of the study was to investigate the interplay between APOE polymorphisms and atherosclerosis in patients with AD and VaD. In this cross-sectional study, 101 demented (68 AD and 33 VaD) patients underwent APOE genotyping and neck vessel ultrasound to evaluate carotid artery disease [intima-media thickness (IMT) and plaques]. Patients with AD carrying epsilon4 allele presented increased IMT values with respect to non-epsilon4 carriers and VaD patients, whereas no relation was found between APOE polymorphisms and the presence or grade of carotid plaques both in AD and VaD patients. The epsilon4 APOE allele may promote intima-media thickening, interacting with other factors contributing to AD development.
Synchronized oscillatory activity in the beta frequency band (13-30 Hz) can be detected in the cerebral motor cortex of healthy humans in the form of corticomuscular coherence. Elevated beta activity is associated with impaired processing of new movements and with more efficient postural or tonic contraction. Accordingly, beta activity is suppressed prior to voluntary movements, rebounding thereafter in the face of peripheral afferance. However, it remains to be established whether synchronized activity in the beta band can be up-regulated in a task-appropriate way independently of confounding changes in sensory afferance. Here we show that there is a systematic and prospective increase in beta synchrony prior to an expected postural challenge. This up-regulation of beta synchrony is associated with improved behavioural performance. We instructed nine healthy subjects to perform a reaction-time movement of the index finger in response to an imperative visual cue or to resist a stretch to the finger in the same direction. These events were preceded by congruent and less common incongruent warning cues. Beta synchrony was temporally increased when subjects were warned of an impending stretch and decreased following a warning cue signalling a forthcoming reaction-time task. Finger positions were less successfully maintained in the face of stretches and reaction times were longer when warning cues were incongruent. The results suggest that the beta state is modulated in a task-relevant way with accompanying behavioural consequences.
In mammals, behavioural and physiological rhythms as well as clock gene expression in the central suprachiasmatic clock (SCN) are phase-shifted by a timed calorie restriction (T-CR; animals receiving at midday 66% of their daily food intake). The molecular mechanism of SCN depends on feedback loops involving clock genes and their protein products. To understand how T-CR mediates its synchronizing effects, we examined the rhythmic expression of three clock proteins, PERIOD (PER) 1, 2 and CLOCK, and one clock-controlled protein (i.e. vasopressin; AVP) in the SCN of mice either fed ad libitum (AL) or with T-CR. Moreover, we evaluated expression of these proteins in the SCN of AL and T-CR mice following a 1-h light pulse. The results indicate that, while PER1 and AVP rhythms were phase-advanced in T-CR mice, the PER2 rhythm showed an increased amplitude. CLOCK was expressed constitutively in AL mice while in T-CR it was significantly reduced, especially after feeding time. A light pulse produced a delayed increase in PER1 and a larger increase in PER2 expression in the SCN of T-CR mice than in AL animals. In addition, light exposure triggered an increase in AVP-ir cells in both AL and T-CR mice, and also of CLOCK expression but in T-CR mice only. The circadian changes in clock and clock-controlled proteins and their acute responses to light in the SCN of T-CR mice demonstrate that metabolic cues induced by a calorie restriction modulate the translational regulation of the SCN clock.
Patients with epilepsy are at substantial risk for memory impairment. Animal studies have paralleled these clinical observations, demonstrating impaired hippocampal function as measured by spatial memory in rodents subjected to seizures. However, the mechanism of seizure-induced hippocampal impairment is unclear. Here we investigated the effects of recurrent seizures on water-maze performance, a behavioural measure of learning and memory, long-term potentiation (LTP; considered a test of synaptic plasticity and memory) and place-cell firing patterns, a single-cell indicator of spatial memory. LTP and CA1 place-cell activity were examined in separate groups of freely moving rats, before and after 10 flurothyl-induced seizures. Water maze performance was examined in a third group of rats, five with previously induced seizures and five controls. Recurrent flurothyl seizures were associated with marked impairment in LTP and a reduction in the frequency of the peak theta power. Compared to baseline recordings, place-cell firing patterns following recurrent seizures were significantly less precise, had lower firing rates and were less stable. Impaired place-cell firing was seen as early as after two seizures and persisted at least 72 h after the last seizure. Water-maze performance was also significantly impaired in animals that underwent recurrent seizures. No cell loss or synaptic reorganization was observed in the hippocampus or in several other cortical areas that are vulnerable to seizures. These results demonstrate that relatively brief excitatory events, not producing visible cell damage, can nevertheless cause long-lasting changes in hippocampal physiology, observable as impairments in place-cell function, LTP and spatial memory.
The amygdaloid cortex (AC) has reciprocal connections with the entorhinal cortex (EC) and also receives projections from the olfactory bulb and the piriform cortex (PC). To assess the possibility that the AC and EC represent functionally coupled structures in the olfactory stream of information, we investigated the propagation pattern of neural activity in olfactory cortices--PC, AC and EC--using optical recordings with voltage-sensitive dyes in the guinea pig in vitro isolated whole-brain preparation. We observed two distinct pathways that convey neural activation evoked by olfactory nerve stimulation: a medial pathway from the PC to the AC, and a lateral pathway from the PC to the lateral EC along the rhinal sulcus. Besides being activated directly via the medial pathway, the AC was activated a second time via activity that propagated from the lateral EC. Lesion experiments revealed that the lateral pathway close to the rhinal sulcus is crucial for neural activation of the EC. Consistent with this activation pattern, we observed two separate, sharp downward deflections in field potential recordings, and we recorded synaptic potentials with multiple peaks from single neurons in the AC. Our findings suggest that the AC and EC are functionally coupled during olfactory information processing, and that this functional linkage may allow the AC to integrate olfactory sensation with information retained or processed in the EC.
Increasing evidence indicates that there exists a reciprocal communication between the immune system and the brain. Interleukin 1beta (IL-1beta), a proinflammatory cytokine produced during immune challenge, is believed to be one of the mediators of immune-to-brain communication, but how it gets into the brain is unknown because of its large molecular weight and difficulty in crossing the blood-brain barrier. Our previous work has demonstrated that IL-1 receptor type I is strongly expressed in the glomus cells of rat carotid body (CB), a well characterized polymodal chemoreceptive organ which serves not only for the detection of hypoxia, hypercapnia and acidity, but also for low temperature and blood glucose. The present study was designed to test whether IL-1beta could stimulate the CB glomus cells and alter the discharge properties in the carotid sinus nerve, the afferent nerve innervating the organ. The results from whole-cell patch-clamp recordings and calcium imaging showed that extracellular application of IL-1beta significantly decreased the outward potassium current and triggered a transient rise in [Ca(2+)](i) in the cultured glomus cells of rat CB. Furthermore, by using extracellular recordings and pharmacological intervention, it was found that IL-1beta stimulation of the CB in the anaesthetized rat in vivo significantly increased the discharge rate in the carotid sinus nerve, most probably mediated by ATP release. This experiment provides evidence that the CB responds to cytokine stimulation and proposes the possibility that the CB might play a role in immune-to-brain communication.
There is now considerable evidence that the level of expression of the proinflammatory cytokine, interleukin-6 (IL-6), is increased in the central nervous system (CNS) during neuroinflammatory conditions such as occurs in neurological disorders and in disease and injury. However, our understanding of the consequences of increased expression of IL-6 on the CNS is still limited, especially with respect to the developing nervous system, which is known to be particularly vulnerable to environmental factors. To address this issue, we investigated the properties of cultured hippocampal neurons exposed chronically to IL-6 during the main period of morphological and physiological development, which occurs during the first 2 weeks of culture. IL-6 was tested at 500 U/mL, considered to reflect a pathophysiologic concentration. The morphological features of neuronal development in the control and IL-6-treated cultures appeared similar. However, Western blot analysis showed a significant reduction in the level of Group-II metabotropic receptors (mGluR2/3) and L-type Ca(2+) channels in the IL-6-treated cultures. A similar reduction in mGluR2/3 and L-type Ca(2+) channel protein was observed in transgenic mice that over-express IL-6 in the CNS through astrocyte production starting early in development. Analysis of Ca(2+) signals produced by spontaneous synaptic network activity in the hippocampal cultures and effects of a mGluR2/3 agonist and antagonist showed that the reduced levels of mGluR2/3 impact on the functional properties of hippocampal synaptic network activity. These results have important implications relative to the mechanisms responsible for altered CNS function during conditions associated with increased levels of IL-6 in the CNS.
Amphetamine (AMPH) has been proposed as a treatment for post-stroke motor deficits when coupled with symptom-relevant physical rehabilitation. Whereas a number of experimental studies report improvements in endpoint measures of skilled reaching for food by rats, there has been no assessment of whether beneficial effects extend to overcoming learned non-use of the limb in the acute post-stroke period or to the qualitative deficits in movement in the chronic post-stroke period. In addition to evaluating the effects of AMPH on success, these were the objectives of the present study. In three different reaching experiments, groups of rats were pre-trained in skilled reaching for food prior to receiving a motor cortex stroke via pial removal. Postoperatively the rats received periodic AMPH treatment and daily rehabilitation. In the acute post-stroke period, AMPH failed to prevent the development of learned non-use of the limb, and in the acute and chronic period failed to improve recovery of reaching success, and also failed to improve the qualitative aspects of reaching movements. Nevertheless, AMPH did enhance adjunct non-reaching movements of locomotion, rearing and turning. The results are discussed in relation to the idea that the beneficial effects of post-stroke AMPH treatment do not extend to all movements, especially the movements of a forelimb in retrieving and consuming food.
To clarify whether reelin signaling is involved in dopaminergic neurotransmission in the adult mouse brain, we investigated dopamine function in mice lacking reelin (reeler). We found that methamphetamine-induced locomotor activity is significantly attenuated in reeler mice. To elucidate the mechanism of this phenomenon, we first investigated presynaptic dopamine release; however, there were no significant differences in wildtype, heterozygous reeler and homozygous reeler mice. Next, we examined the locomotor response to intra-accumbens injection of dopamine D1 and D2 receptor agonists, and found that lack of reelin signaling results in decreases in both D1 and D2 receptor-mediated dopaminergic functions. In addition, we measured dopamine receptor binding in the striatum, and found that both D1 and D2 classes of dopamine receptors are reduced in reeler mice. Furthermore, we found that the phosphorylation levels of DARPP-32 are also changed by lack of reelin signaling. Finally, to distinguish between a developmental role of reelin or an acute role of reelin in adult mouse, we intraventricularly infused CR-50, a monoclonal antibody against reelin. Interestingly, infusion of CR-50 also significantly reduced methamphetamine-induced hyperlocomotion in wildtype mice, showing that reelin has an acute role in the dopaminergic system. These results indicate that reelin signaling plays a pivotal role in the dopaminergic system in adult mice, especially in postsynaptic levels.
In week-old rats, lesions of the dorsolateral pontine tegmentum (DLPT) and nucleus pontis oralis (PnO) have opposing effects on nuchal muscle tone. Specifically, pups with DLPT lesions exhibit prolonged bouts of nuchal muscle atonia (indicative of sleep) and pups with PnO lesions exhibit prolonged bouts of high nuchal muscle tone (indicative of wakefulness). Here we test the hypothesis that nuchal muscle tone is modulated, at least in part, by cholinergically mediated interactions between these two regions. First, in unanesthetized pups, we found that chemical infusion of the cholinergic agonist carbachol (22 mm, 0.1 microL) within the DLPT produced high muscle tone. Next, chemical lesions of the PnO were used to produce a chronic state of high nuchal muscle tone, at which time the cholinergic antagonist scopolamine (10 mm, 0.1 microL) was infused into the DLPT. Scopolamine effectively decreased nuchal muscle tone, thus suggesting that lesions of the PnO increase muscle tone via cholinergic activation of the DLPT. Using 2-deoxyglucose autoradiography, metabolic activation throughout the DLPT was observed after PnO lesions. Finally, consistent with the hypothesis that PnO inactivation produces high muscle tone, infusion of the sodium channel blocker lidocaine (2%) into the PnO of unanesthetized pups produced rapid increases in muscle tone. We conclude that, even early in infancy, the DLPT is critically involved in the regulation of muscle tone and behavioral state, and that its activity is modulated by a cholinergic mechanism that is directly or indirectly controlled by the PnO.
Electrical coupling of clusters of neurons via axo-axonal gap junctions is a candidate mechanism underlying the ultra-fast (&gt; 100 Hz) oscillations recorded in various in vitro and in vivo normal and pathological conditions [Traub et al. (1999)Neuroscience, 92, 407-426]. The poor characterization of axo-axonal gap junctions, however, limits experimental verification of this mechanism. We simulated networks of prototype multi-compartmental neurons in order to identify the parameters constraining the production and frequency of ultra-fast oscillations. Weak axo-axonal coupling was found to synchronize networks preferentially at the gamma-range frequency (30-100 Hz). Networks with strong axo-axonal coupling were able to produce 200 Hz oscillations, a finding we extended with several new observations. Ultra-fast oscillations arose spontaneously during dendritic excitation, i.e. in the absence of extrinsic axonal background spikes, as the spike trigger zone concomitantly shifted from soma to axon. The all-or-none oscillations could be transitory or self-sustained, and lasted longer in larger networks. They occurred more likely during low to modest soma firing rates, as strong afterhyperpolarizing currents tended to impair them. The rate of the rhythm was independent of network size and of the level of excitation, but inversely proportional to the distance of the junctions from the soma. As a matter of fact, the resulting axonal firing rate was the highest one at which antidromic spikes would not collide with spikes reflected from the soma. Taken together, the observed model dynamics lends further credibility to axo-axonal coupling as a mechanism of ultra-fast oscillations.
The aim of this study was to investigate the noradrenergic regulation of mineralocorticoid receptors (MRs) and glucocorticoid receptors (GRs) in high responder (HR) and low responder (LR) male rats, an animal model of individual differences in hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis activity and vulnerability to drugs of abuse. The effects of a chronic treatment with the noradrenergic alpha(1) antagonist (1-[4-amino-6,7-dimethoxy-2-quinazolinyl]-4-[2-furanylcarbonyl] piperazine) hydrochloride (prazosin) (0.5 mg/kg, i.p., 35 days) were assessed on stress-induced corticosterone (CORT) secretion and on hippocampal MRs and GRs in adrenally intact rats. In order to ascertain whether the effects of chronic prazosin treatment on hippocampal MRs and GRs were direct or indirect, through prazosin-induced CORT secretion, we also assessed the effects of the same treatment on adrenalectomized rats with CORT substitutive therapy. When compared with LR rats, HR rats exhibited a delayed return to the basal level of CORT following acute restraint stress; this was associated with a lower binding of MRs and GRs in HR rats than in LR rats. Chronic prazosin treatment had no effect in HR animals but markedly reduced hippocampal MRs and GRs, and increased stress-induced CORT secretion in LR rats. In LR adrenalectomized rats, prazosin reduced hipppocampal MRs but did not change GRs. Our results provide evidence of a differential regulation by noradrenaline of hippocampal MRs and GRs in HR and LR rats. These data could have clinical implications in terms of individual differences in the resistance to antidepressant treatments and individual differences in drug abuse.
The striatum is a critical structure for the control of voluntary behaviour, and striatal synaptic plasticity has been implicated in instrumental learning. As ethanol consumption can cause impairments in cognition, learning, and action selection, it is important to understand the effects of this drug on striatal function. In this study we examined the effects of ethanol on long-term synaptic plasticity in the dorsomedial striatum (DMS), a striatal subregion that plays a central role in the acquisition and selection of goal-directed actions. Ethanol was found to impair N-methyl-d-aspartic acid receptor (NMDAR)-dependent long-term potentiation (LTP) dose-dependently in the DMS, and to promote long-term depression (LTD) at the highest concentration (50 mm) used. These results suggest that ethanol, at a concentration usually associated with mild intoxication, could significantly change experience-dependent modification of corticostriatal circuits underlying the learning of goal-directed instrumental actions.

In a previous study, our laboratory reported that sildenafil citrate, a cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitor, reversed a learning impairment in rats induced by systemic inhibition of nitric oxide synthase (60 mg/kg, i.p., Nomega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester; L-NAME). To limit the peripheral effects of L-NAME and further localize the site of action of sildenafil, L-NAME (48 microg, i.c.v.) was infused bilaterally into the lateral cerebral ventricles 30 min prior to maze training. Saline or sildenafil citrate (1.5 or 3.0 mg/kg, i.p.) was administered systemically 15 min before training. Drug injections occurred 24 h after pretraining rats to avoid foot shock on a one-way active avoidance straight runway. Following drug treatment, the rats received 15 training trials on a 14-unit T-maze task that requires learning a complex sequence of turns to avoid mild foot shock. This complex maze paradigm is sensitive to aging and blockade of cholinergic, N-methyl-D-aspartate and nitric oxide signaling systems. Behavioral measures of performance included deviations from the correct pathway (errors), runtime from start to goal (latency), shock frequency and shock duration. Statistical analysis revealed that central infusion of L-NAME impaired maze performance and that sildenafil (3.0 mg/kg) significantly attenuated the impairment. These results suggest that sildenafil citrate may serve as a cognitive enhancer by modulating central nitric oxide/cGMP signal transduction following N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation. This pathway has been implicated in age-related cognitive decline and may be a useful target for pharmacological intervention of neurodegenerative disease.
Virtual Scanning incorporates novel uses of colored light into its system of health assessment and therapy. Independent investigations of its effectiveness in Russia and the UK have revealed unique abilities to correct incipient and fully developed chronic conditions. As such it forms an important new addition to the field of Chromotherapy. It differs from most others, in that its development depended on discoveries in neuroscience by its inventor, and subsequent application of new models in computational neuroscience.
Tactile discrimination performance depends on the receptive field (RF) size of somatosensory cortical (SI) neurons. Psychophysical masking effects can reveal the RF of an idealized &quot;virtual&quot; somatosensory neuron. Previous studies show that top-down factors strongly affect tactile discrimination performance. Here, we show that non-informative vision of the touched body part influences tactile discrimination by modulating tactile RFs. Ten subjects performed spatial discrimination between touch locations on the forearm. Performance was improved when subjects saw their forearm compared to viewing a neutral object in the same location. The extent of visual information was relevant, since restricted view of the forearm did not have this enhancing effect. Vibrotactile maskers were placed symmetrically on either side of the tactile target locations, at two different distances. Overall, masking significantly impaired discrimination performance, but the spatial gradient of masking depended on what subjects viewed. Viewing the body reduced the effect of distant maskers, but enhanced the effect of close maskers, as compared to viewing a neutral object. We propose that viewing the body improves functional touch by sharpening tactile RFs in an early somatosensory map. Top-down modulation of lateral inhibition could underlie these effects.
Visual search for target items embedded within a set of distracting items has consistently been shown to engage regions of occipital and parietal cortex, but the contribution of different regions of prefrontal cortex remains unclear. Here, we used fMRI to compare brain activity in 12 healthy participants performing efficient and inefficient search tasks in which target discriminability and the number of distractor items were manipulated. Matched baseline conditions were incorporated to control for visual and motor components of the tasks, allowing cortical activity associated with each type of search to be isolated. Region of interest analysis was applied to critical regions of prefrontal cortex to determine whether their involvement was common to both efficient and inefficient search, or unique to inefficient search alone. We found regions of the inferior and middle frontal cortex were only active during inefficient search, whereas an area in the superior frontal cortex (in the region of FEF) was active for both efficient and inefficient search. Thus, regions of ventral as well as dorsal prefrontal cortex are recruited during inefficient search, and we propose that this activity is related to processes that guide, control and monitor the allocation of selective attention.
Idiopathic Parkinson's disease (IPD) patients and matched healthy participants were compared on a non-motor procedural task involving semantically related inverted word pairs, and 3 months later to determine the extent of skill consolidation. IPD patients were found to acquire new procedural skills necessary to read these inverted words, thus indicating that they are not impaired in all types of procedural learning. However, results on post-tests 3 months later, revealed significant group differences with IPD subjects showing little off-line learning relative to the controls. This suggests that a dopamine (DA)-deafferented neural system is not consolidated in the same way that a normally DA-innervated system is, and that impaired maintenance of procedures and routines may place IPD patients in a situation of constant relearning of embedded strategies in motor and non-motor domains.
The present work investigated the control of upright posture on inclined surfaces (14 degrees). Such conditions could, for example, change the contributions of muscle spindles resulting in alterations in postural sway. Subjects stood in quiet stance over a force platform positioned in one of three different fixed positions: horizontal (H), toes-up (ankle dorsi-flexion, D) and toes-down (ankle plantar-flexion, P). The experiments were done in the presence and also in the absence of vision. The analysis of the resulting sway was based on the power spectrum of the center of pressure displacement in the anterior-posterior direction (CP_ap). Analysis of the electromyogram (EMG) of the leg muscles and evaluation of the level of presynaptic inhibition (PSI) of the soleus (SO) Ia afferents complemented the study. The results showed that the spectrum of the CP_ap changed with the inclination of the surface of support. In condition D a higher instability was found as reflected by the higher spectral amplitudes at lower frequencies (below 0.3 Hz). On the other hand, the CP_ap of subjects in condition P contained increased amplitudes at high frequencies (above 0.3 Hz) and smaller amplitudes at low frequencies. The modifications found in the CP_ap power spectra when standing over an inclined surface may indicate changes in both short-term and long-term systems of postural control. These results do not seem to be associated with changes in group Ia feedback gain since no changes in the level of PSI were found among the three standing conditions. The SO EMG increased in condition P but did not change in condition D. On the other hand, the tibialis anterior had a tendency towards increased bursting activity in condition D. Eye closure caused an increase in the power of the oscillations at all spectral frequencies in the three standing conditions (H, P or D) and also a change in the profile of the CP_ap power spectrum. This may suggest a nonlinearity in the postural control system. The control of the slow component of the postural sway was more dependent on vision when the subject was in condition D, probably in association with the biomechanical constraints of standing on a toes-up ramp. A conclusion of this work was that, depending on the postural demand (direction of the ramp of support), the ensuing proprioceptive and biomechanical changes affect differentially the fast and slow mechanisms of balance control.
A major question in neuroscience concerns how widely separated brain regions coordinate their activity to produce unitary cognitive states or motor actions. To investigate this question, we employed multisite, multielectrode recording in rats to study how olfactory and motor circuits are coupled prior to the execution of an olfactory-driven, GO/NO-GO variant of a skilled, rapidly executed (approximately 350-600 ms) reaching task. During task performance, we recorded multi-single units and local field potentials (LFPs) simultaneously from the rats' olfactory cortex (specifically, the posterior piriform cortex) and from cortical and subcortical motor sites (the caudal forepaw M1, and the magnocellular red nucleus, respectively). Analyses on multi-single units across areas revealed an increase in beta-frequency spiking (12-30 Hz) during a approximately 100 ms window surrounding the Final Sniff of the GO cue before lifting the arm (the &quot;Sniff-GO window&quot;) that was seldom seen when animals sniffed the NO-GO cue. Also during the Sniff-GO window, LFPs displayed a striking increase in beta, low-gamma, and high-gamma energy (12-30, 30-50, and 50-100 Hz, respectively), and oscillations in the high gamma band appeared to be coherent across the recorded sites. These results indicate that transient, multispectral coherence across cortical and subcortical brain sites is part of the coordination process prior to sensory-guided movement initiation.
Awareness deficits are a significant problem following traumatic brain injury (TBI). This study examined error processing as candidate marker of awareness and compared the performance of 18 TBI participants and 18 controls using an online error-monitoring task while participants performed simple go/no-go tasks. Error-monitoring performance was compared where the no-go target was part of (a) a predictive sequence, (b) predictive sequence plus a dual-task element and (c) a random sequence. Results showed that the TBI participants, in contrast to control participants, were significantly impaired at monitoring their errors during both predictive sequence tasks but were not impaired on the random sequence task. These findings suggest that following TBI, when an error is more impulsive it may be more easily monitored, whereas when an error is characterised by attentional drift, subsequent error-processing mechanisms may fail to engage. Higher levels of online error-awareness were also associated with lower levels of anxiety, fewer symptoms of frontal dysfunction and greater competence in everyday functioning.
We examined the sensory and motor influences of stimulus eccentricity and direction on saccadic reaction times (SRTs), direction-of-movement errors, and saccade amplitude for stimulus-driven (prosaccade) and volitional (antisaccade) oculomotor responses in humans. Stimuli were presented at five eccentricities, ranging from 0.5 degrees to 8 degrees , and in eight radial directions around a central fixation point. At 0.5 degrees eccentricity, participants showed delayed SRT and increased direction-of-movement errors consistent with misidentification of the target and fixation points. For the remaining eccentricities, horizontal saccades had shorter mean SRT than vertical saccades. Stimuli in the upper visual field trigger overt shifts in gaze more easily and faster than in the lower visual field: prosaccades to the upper hemifield had shorter SRT than to the lower hemifield, and more anti-saccade direction-of-movement errors were made into the upper hemifield. With the exception of the 0.5 degrees stimuli, SRT was independent of eccentricity. Saccade amplitude was dependent on target eccentricity for prosaccades, but not for antisaccades within the range we tested. Performance matched behavioral measures described previously for monkeys performing the same tasks, confirming that the monkey is a good model for the human oculomotor function. We conclude that an upper hemifield bias lead to a decrease in SRT and an increase in direction errors.
This study was designed to evaluate the drug discrimination paradigm as a model for assessing the ability of potential agonist medications to block the effects of intravenous cocaine. Previous research has demonstrated that oral cocaine attenuated the subjective and physiological effects of intravenous cocaine injections, and in the absence of a known efficacious medication for cocaine use disorders, a proof-of-concept approach was used in which cocaine was acutely administered orally to block intravenous cocaine's discriminative-stimulus effects. During training, 11 cocaine-dependent participants were able to discriminate between intravenous saline and 20 mg/70 kg iv cocaine, and 8 of these participants completed the study. After training, participants ingested capsules containing either placebo or 300 mg/70 kg cocaine 60 min prior to the intravenous injection of different doses of cocaine during test sessions with no contingencies in place. Each cocaine dose was administered twice, once under each oral pretreatment condition. Training sessions were interspersed among the test sessions. Physiological and subjective effects were measured throughout each session. Oral cocaine moderately increased some of the subjective and physiological effects of the lower doses of intravenous cocaine, whereas effects at the higher doses were unaltered. Similar changes were seen for the discrimination results. Thus, although oral cocaine given acutely likely is not a viable treatment medication for cocaine dependence, the usefulness of the drug discrimination model in the evaluation of agonist treatment medications remains unclear.

Primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) is a progressive optic neuropathy, characterized, in part by extensive extra cellular matrix remodeling and collapse of the lamina cribrosa (LC). Endothelin-1 (ET-1), a potent vasoactive peptide and its receptors, endothelin receptor A (ET(A)) and endothelin receptor B (ET(B)), have been implicated in glaucomatous optic neuropathy. In this study we examined the expression of ET-1 and its receptors in GFAP negative LC cells. RT-PCR analysis revealed that LC cells express both ET(A), ET(B) receptors and prepro- ET-1, the primary gene transcript of ET-1. A dose-dependent increase in intra-cellular calcium concentrations was observed in the presence of 1, 10 and 100nM ET-1. Increased intracellular calcium concentrations were blocked by the ET(A) selective antagonist BQ610 but not by the ET(B) specific antagonist BQ788. Desensitization to ET(A)-mediated increase in intracellular calcium was observed in LC cells following pre-treatment with ET-1 for 24h. Western blot analysis of LC cells treated with ET-1 for 24h revealed a decreased expression of ET(A) receptor protein at 1, 10 and 100nM concentrations, while a dose dependent increase in the ET(B) receptor was observed with a significant increase at 100nM. Quantitative PCR showed a dose-dependent decrease in ET(A) receptor mRNA levels and an increase in the mRNA levels of ET(B) receptors. A Griess colorimetric assay was used to measure the NO released from LC cells and ET-1 induced a dose-dependent increase in NO release which was significant at 100nM concentration. ET-1 induced NO release was significantly blocked by BQ788, an ET(B) selective antagonist, and as well as BQ610, an ET(A) selective antagonist. These results suggested that human lamina cribrosa cells expressed functional ET(A) and ET(B) receptors and their expression and function was altered in response to prolong exposure to ET-1. This may have an implication in the normal physiology of LC cells and in POAG subjects where elevated levels of ET-1 could impact LC function.
The levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), are increased in the brain in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Most of the biological properties of TNF-alpha are mediated through its two receptors, tumour necrosis factor receptors I and II (TNF-RI and TNF-RII). We have used immunohistochemistry, Western blotting and real time-PCR (RT-PCR) on frontal (BA 6/24) and temporal (BA 20-22) neocortex and hippocampus from AD and control brains to determine if both receptor proteins were present and expressed in AD and if sequence variations (SNPs) in the promoter regions of the two genes are associated with AD. Expression of TNF-RI exceeded that of TNF-RII in AD and control brains at protein and mRNA levels. The level of TNF-RI protein varied considerably in individual brains but not between AD and control brains. None of the identified TNF-RI and -RII SNPs in the promoter regions of the genes was linked with AD. Our findings suggest that TNF-RI and -RII promoter gene polymorphisms and variations in protein and gene expression of these receptors are unlikely to play a major role in the development of AD.
The present study assessed whether chlorogenic acid (CGA), a phenylpropanoid molecule that has multiple mechanisms of action would be useful to attenuate behavioral deficits associated with embolic strokes using the rabbit small clot embolic stroke model (RSCEM). Quantal analysis for each treatment determines the quantity of microclots (mg) that produce neurologic dysfunction in 50% of a group of animals (P(50)), with intervention considered beneficial if it increases the P(50) compared to controls. CGA (50 mg/kg) injected 5 min post-embolization significantly increased behavioral function and the P(50) to 3.61+/-0.52 mg (n=19) compared to 1.58+/-0.15 mg (n=26) in controls. In addition, CGA also increased the P(50) to 2.57+/-0.28 mg (n=18) when administered 1 h post-embolization, but was ineffective when given 3 h following embolization (P(50)=1.22+/-0.24 mg, n=18). For combination studies with the thrombolytic tissue plasminogen activator (tPA), we used tPA at a standard dose of 3.3 mg/kg, which significantly increased the P(50) to 2.89+/-0.29 mg (n=17) when administered 1 h after embolization, but not 3 h after embolization (P(50)=1.54+/-0.27 mg, n=18). However, when tPA (3.3 mg/kg) was combined with CGA (50 mg/kg) and administered 3 h following embolization, there was a significant increase in behavioral function as evidenced by an increase in the P(50) value to 3.40+/-0.76 mg (n=23). In conclusion, as a mono-therapy CGA effectively reduced behavioral deficits when given up to 1 h following embolic strokes in rabbits. Moreover, there was a synergistic effect of the combination of tPA with CGA when administered 3 h following embolization. The results show that the therapeutic window for a standard effective dose of tPA could be increased by administration of CGA, suggesting that it may be most useful as a co-therapy with a standard thrombolytic treatment regimen.
Traumatic spinal cord injury (SCI) is accompanied by a dramatic inflammatory response, which escalates over the first week post-injury and is thought to contribute to secondary pathology after SCI. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPAR) are widely expressed nuclear receptors whose activation has led to diminished pro-inflammatory cascades in several CNS disorders. Therefore, we examined the efficacy of the PPARgamma agonist Pioglitazone in a rodent SCI model. Rats received a moderate mid-thoracic contusion and were randomly placed into groups receiving vehicle, low dose or high dose Pioglitazone. Drug or vehicle was injected i.p. at 15 min post-injury and then every 12 h for the first 7 days post-injury. Locomotor function was followed for 5 weeks using the BBB scale. BBB scores were greater in treated animals at 7 days post-injury and significant improvements in BBB subscores were noted, including better toe clearance, earlier stepping and more parallel paw position. Stereological measurements throughout the lesion revealed a significant increase in rostral spared white matter in both Pioglitazone treatment groups. Spinal cords from the high dose group also had significantly more gray matter sparing and motor neurons rostral and caudal to epicenter. Thus, our results reveal that clinical treatment with Pioglitazone, an FDA-approved drug used currently for diabetes, may be a feasible and promising strategy for promoting anatomical and functional repair after SCI.
Brief electrical stimulation enhances the regenerative ability of axotomized motor [Nix, W.A., Hopf, H.C., 1983. Electrical stimulation of regenerating nerve and its effect on motor recovery. Brain Res. 272, 21-25; Al-Majed, A.A., Neumann, C.M., Brushart, T.M., Gordon, T., 2000. Brief electrical stimulation promotes the speed and accuracy of motor axonal regeneration. J. Neurosci. 20, 2602-2608] and sensory [Brushart, T.M., Jari, R., Verge, V., Rohde, C., Gordon, T., 2005. Electrical stimulation restores the specificity of sensory axon regeneration. Exp. Neurol. 194, 221-229] neurons. Here we examined the parameter of duration of stimulation on regenerative capacity, including the intrinsic growth programs, of sensory neurons. The effect of 20 Hz continuous electrical stimulation on the number of DRG sensory neurons that regenerate their axons was evaluated following transection and surgical repair of the femoral nerve trunk. Stimulation was applied proximal to the repair site for 1 h, 3 h, 1 day, 7 days or 14 days at the time of nerve repair. Following a 21-day regeneration period, DRG neurons that regenerated axons into the muscle and cutaneous sensory nerve branches were retrogradely identified. Stimulation of 1 h led to a significant increase in DRG neurons regenerating into cutaneous and muscle branches when compared to 0 h (sham) stimulation or longer periods of stimulation. Stimulation for 1 h also significantly increased the numbers of neurons that regenerated axons beyond the repair site 4 days after lesion and was correlated with a significant increase in expression of growth-associated protein 43 (GAP-43) mRNA in the regenerating neurons at 2 days post-repair. An additional indicator of heightened plasticity following 1 h stimulation was elevated expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). The effect of brief stimulation on enhancing sensory and motoneuron regeneration holds promise for inducing improved peripheral nerve repair in the clinical setting.
NADPH oxidase-generated superoxide can modulate crucial intracellular signaling cascades in neurons of the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS), a brain region that plays an important role in cardiovascular processes. Modulation of NTS signaling by superoxide may be linked to the subcellular location of the mobile NADPH oxidase p47(phox) subunit, which is known to be present in dendrites of NTS neurons. It is not known, however, if hypertension can produce changes in the trafficking of p47(phox) in defined NTS subregions, particularly the preferentially barosensitive dorsomedial NTS (dmNTS), or preferentially gastrointestinal medial NTS (mNTS). We used immunogold electron microscopy to determine if p47(phox) localization was differentially affected in dendritic profiles of neurons from these NTS subregions of the rat in response to distinct models of hypertension, namely chronic 7-day subcutaneous administration of angiotensin II (AngII), or phenylephrine. In small (&lt;1 microm) dendritic processes, both AngII and phenylephrine produced a decrease in intracellular p47(phox) labeling selectively in dmNTS neurons. In intermediate-size (1-2 microm) dendritic profiles in the dmNTS region only, there was an increase in p47(phox) labeling in response to each hypertensive agent, although these changes occurred in different subcellular compartments. There was an increase in non-vesicular labeling in response to AngII, but an increase in surface labeling with phenylephrine. Moreover, each of the changes in p47(phox) targeting mentioned above occurred in dendritic profiles with, or without immunoperoxidase labeling for the AngII AT-1A receptor subtype (AT-1A). These results indicate that chronic administration of agents that induce hypertension can also produce changes in the subcellular localization in p47(phox) in dmNTS neurons. Thus, systemic hypertension may produce alterations in the trafficking of proteins associated with superoxide production in central autonomic neurons, thus revealing a potentially important neurogenic component of free radical production and systemic blood pressure elevation.
This review presents data supporting the hypothesis that the anticancer activity of ceramide and many antineoplastic drugs is due to a 3-carbon allylic moiety (-C = C-C-) containing oxygen or nitrogen. The polar atom appears as an alcohol, ether, ester, amide, ketone, amine or imino group. Some drugs lack the allylic moiety, but metabolic oxidation or oxygenation in patients introduces the moiety. The allylic compounds kill cancer cells by: i) interference with ubiquinone in mitochondria, generating reactive oxygen species (ROS); ii) activation of enzymatic hydrolysis of sphingomyelin by the ROS, forming ceramide, which initiates mitochondrial destruction and apoptosis; iii) activation of the phosphorylation and dephosphorylation of proteins involved in apoptosis by ceramide and some allylic drugs and iv) activation of certain proteases, such as cathepsin D, by ceramide.
Professor Illana Gozes was interviewed by Emma Quigley (Senior Editor, Expert Opinion) on 17(th) April 2007. Professor Illana Gozes BSc, PhD holds the titles of Professor of Clinical Biochemistry; The Lily and Avraham Gildor Chair for the Investigation of Growth Factors; Director of Adams Super Center for Brain Studies and Levi-Edersheim-Gitter fMRI Institute; Head of the Dr Diana and Zelman Elton (Elbaum) Laboratory for Molecular Neuroendocrinology, Tel Aviv University and Chief Scientific Officer, Allon Therapeutics, Inc., Vancouver BC, Canada. Professor Gozes has served as a member (or chair) of several faculty, university or national and international committees and she currently serves on the Board of Directors of Allon Therapeutics, the Scientific Review Board of the ISOA, and is the Editor-in-Chief of the Journal of Molecular Neuroscience. Professor Gozes has received a number of scientific awards for her work including the Landau Award for an excellent PhD dissertation, the Juludan Prize and the Teva Founders Prize for exceptional scientific studies that may lead to biotechnology developments as well as the Bergmann Prize and the Neufeld award for outstanding/leading US-Israel BSF grant proposals, and has published extensively in the fields of molecular neuroscience and neuroprotection (&gt; 200 scientific manuscripts). She is co-inventor of &gt; 15 patents and applications, including the composition of matter patent on AL-108 and AL-208, Allon's lead compounds. Professor Gozes received a BSc from Tel Aviv University, a PhD from The Weizmann Institute of Science and was a Weizmann Postdoctoral Fellow at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Research Associate/Visiting Scientist at the Salk Institute and the Scripps Clinic and Research Foundation, a Senior Scientist/Associate Professor at the Weizmann Institute and a Fogarty-Scholar-in-Residence at the National Institutes of Health (USA). Professor Gozes directs a very active research laboratory at Tel Aviv University and is mentoring and has mentored directly approximately 50 graduate students toward their MSc or PhD degrees.
Epilepsy affects almost 1% of the population, and yet the pathophysiology of this disorder is unknown in the majority of the cases. Recently, a number of mutations in different genes were identified, mostly in cases of familial epilepsy with a Mendelian mode of inheritance. The majority of these genes code for voltage- or ligand-gated ion channels. Interestingly, not only generalized epilepsies, but also focal epilepsies were shown to be caused by mutated genes, which in some cases are expressed ubiquitously in the brain. This review will focus on the monogenic familial epilepsies and the clinical and molecular aspects of these diseases.
Oxcarbazepine is an antiepileptic drug that has been approved by the US FDA and is indicated for use as monotherapy or adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial seizures in adults and children aged over 4 years. The aim of this report is to investigate the results of clinical trials in order to ascertain the efficacy and safety of oxcarbazepine for use in bipolar disorder and schizoaffective disorder. Oxcarbazepine is a keto-congener of carbamazepine with fewer side effects and drug interactions. Orally administrated oxcarbazepine is rapidly and completely absorbed and has a half-life of 9 h. Currently, there is a lack of controlled clinical trials studying the use of oxcarbazepine. In light of controlled and open-label prospective studies, it may be useful for manic symptoms in the treatment of bipolar and schizoaffective patients. Case reports, retrospective and prospective studies suggest that oxcarbazepine might have prophylactic efficacy and long-term benefit for these patients. In addition, owing to its lower propensity for drug interactions and side effects, it may be useful in the treatment of refractory patients with bipolar and schizoaffective disorder. However, most of the trials have relevant methodological shortcomings. The side-effect profile of oxcarbazepine is similar to carbamazepine, but the severity of these effects appears to be slightly less. The symptoms that are most frequently associated with the use of oxcarbazepine are asthenia, headache, dizziness, somnolence, nausea, diplopia and skin rash. Isolated cases of hyponatremic coma have been reported, thus electrolyte abnormalities should be closely monitored. Oxcarbazepine is now a generic drug, but the metabolite licarbazepine and other related compounds, such as eslicarbazepine, are currently being studied under controlled conditions and might become useful therapies for bipolar and schizoaffective disorder in the future.
After reviewing Engel's bio-psycho-social proposal and Kandel's &quot;principles for an integration between mind and brain,&quot; the author introduces a set of akin propositions that aim at integrating neurosciences, genetics, the mind, and the social world into a succinct set of systemic formulations focusing on interlevel interfaces, with profound implications for the training, practice, and research in the field of family processes and therapy.
Chronic, debilitating abdominal pain is arguably the most important component of chronic pancreatitis, leading to significant morbidity and disability. Attempting to treat this pain, which is too often unsuccessful, is a frustrating experience for physician and patient. Multiple studies to improve understanding of the pathophysiology that causes pain in some patients but not in others have been performed since the most recent reviews on this topic. In addition, new treatment modalities have been developed and evaluated in this population. This review discusses new advances in neuroscience and the study of visceral pain mechanisms, as well as genetic factors that may play a role. Updates of established therapies, as well as new techniques used in addressing pain from chronic pancreatitis, are reviewed. Lastly, outcome measures, which have been highly variable in this field over the years, are addressed.
In mammals, the circadian oscillators that drive daily behavioral and endocrine rhythms are located in the hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). While the SCN is anatomically well-situated to receive and transmit temporal cues to the rest of the brain and periphery, there are many holes in our understanding of how this temporal regulation occurs. Unanswered questions include how cell autonomous circadian oscillations within the SCN remain synchronized to each other as well as communicate temporal information to downstream targets. In recent years, it has become clear that neuropeptides are critically involved in circadian timekeeping. One such neuropeptide, vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), defines a cell population within the SCN and is likely used as a signaling molecule by these neurons. Converging lines of evidence suggest that the loss of VIP or its receptor has a major influence on the ability of the SCN neurons to generate circadian oscillations as well as synchronize these cellular oscillations. VIP, acting through the VPAC(2) receptor, exerts these effects in the SCN by activating intracellular signaling pathways and, consequently, modulating synaptic transmission and intrinsic membrane currents. Anatomical evidence suggests that these VIP expressing neurons connect both directly and indirectly to endocrine and other output targets. Striking similarities exist between the role of VIP in mammals and the role of Pigment Dispersing Factor (PDF), a functionally related neuropeptide, in the Drosophila circadian system. Work in both mammals and insects suggests that further research into neuropeptide function is necessary to understand how circadian oscillators work as a coordinated system to impose a temporal structure on physiological processes within the organism.

In the field of basic and clinical neurosciences, it is important to develop a method for easy delivery and persistent expression of transgene in central neurons. We firstly generated lentiviral vectors with five kinds of neuron-specific promoters, such as synapsin I (SYN), calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II, tubulin alpha I, neuron-specific enolase and platelet-derived growth factor beta chain promoters and then novel hybrid promoters by fusing cytomegalovirus enhancer (E) to those neuron-specific promoters. Neuron-specific expression of green fluorescent protein (GFP) with those promoters was examined in vivo by injecting the lentiviral vectors into the rat neostriatum, thalamus and neocortex. Among all the promoters, SYN promoter displayed the highest specificity for neuronal expression in all the regions examined (more than 96%). Although GFP production by the hybrid promoters was about 2-4 times larger than the non-enhanced promoters, the neuronal specificity was significantly decreased in most cases. However, the neuronal specificity of E/SYN hybrid promoter exhibited the least decrease only in the thalamus. Furthermore, the transcriptional activity and neuronal specificity of E/SYN promoter were sustained for up to 8 weeks. Thus, lentivirus with E/SYN promoter is the best vector for strong persistent expression in neurons.
The CSL [CBF1/Su(H)/Lag2] proteins [Su(H) in Drosophila] are implicated in repression and activation of Notch target loci. Prevailing models imply a static association of these DNA-binding transcription factors with their target enhancers. Our analysis of Su(H) binding and chromatin-associated features at 11 E(spl) Notch target genes before and after Notch revealed large differences in Su(H) occupancy at target loci that correlated with the presence of polymerase II and other marks of transcriptional activity. Unexpectedly, Su(H) occupancy was significantly and transiently increased following Notch activation, suggesting a more dynamic interaction with targets than hitherto proposed.
Genetic factors play a fundamental role in the genesis of many mental disorders. The identification of the underlying genetic variation will therefore transform parts of psychiatry toward a neuroscience-based discipline. With the sequence of the human genome now available, the majority of common variations identified, and new high-throughput technologies arriving in academic research laboratories, the identification of genes is expected to explain a large proportion of the risk of developing mental disorders. So far, a number of risk genes have been identified, but no major gene has emerged. The majority of these genes participate in the regulation of biogenic amines that play critical roles in affect modulation and reward systems. The identification of genetic variations associated with mental disorders should provide an approach to evaluate risk for mental disorders, adjust pharmacotherapy on the individual level, and even allow for preventive interactions. New targets for the development of treatment are anticipated to derive from results of genetic studies. In this review, we summarize the current state of psychiatric genetics, underscore current discussions, and predict where the field is expected to move in the near future.
The relationship between radial glia and neurons migrating tangentially from the ganglionic eminence (GE) has been suggested but not firmly established. To study this relationship we used a ferret model of cortical dysplasia where radial glia are highly disorganized. To produce this, an antimitotic, methylazoxy methanol (MAM) is injected on the 24th day of gestation (E24 MAM). Neurons migrating away from the GE in MAM-treated animals tend to remain in the intermediate zone (IZ) and do not reach the cortical plate (CP) as they do in normal ferret slices. We recently observed that the disrupted radial glia after MAM treatment could be restored toward their normal morphology by exogenous application of neuregulin1 (NRG1). We demonstrate here that when E24 MAM slices are treated with NRG1, the distribution of cells arising from the GE was similar to normal slices. In a second paradigm, we disrupted radial glia by adding ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) to the culture media of normal ferret slices; CNTF induces acute differentiation of radial glia into astrocytes. After CNTF exposure, few tangentially migrating cells reach the CP compared to untreated slices. These results show that interneurons fail to reach the CP by disrupted normal radial glia and restoring the normal radial glial scaffold is sufficient to allow migrating cells to invade the CP. Our results suggest an important role for radial glia by controlling directly or indirectly the migration of interneurons to the CP, their main target.
It is well understood that electric currents applied directly to the body can stimulate peripheral nerve and muscle tissue; such effects can be fatal if breathing is inhibited or ventricular fibrillation is induced. Exposure to extremely low frequency electric and magnetic fields will also induce electric fields and currents within the body, but these are almost always much lower than those that can stimulate peripheral nerve tissue. Guidance on exposure to such fields is based on the avoidance of acute effects in the central nervous system. This paper reviews the physiological processes involved in nerve cell excitability in the peripheral and central nervous system, and the experimental evidence for physiologically weak electric field effects. It is concluded that the integrative properties of the synapses and neural networks of the central nervous system render cognitive function sensitive to the effects of physiologically weak electric fields, below the threshold for peripheral nerve stimulation. However, the only direct evidence of these weak field interactions within the central nervous system is the induction of phosphenes in humans--the perception of faint flickering light in the periphery of the visual field, by magnetic field exposure. Other tissues are potentially sensitive to induced electric fields through effects on voltage-gated ion channels, but the sensitivity of these ion channels is likely to be lower than those of nerve and muscle cells specialized for rapid electrical signaling. In addition, such tissues lack the integrative properties of synapses and neuronal networks that render the central nervous system potentially more vulnerable.
The purpose of this study was to distinguish the effects of different parameters on latencies of wave N1, wave P2, and inter-peak interval N1-P2 of electrical late auditory responses (ELARs). ELARs were recorded from four intra-cochlear electrodes in fourteen adult HiRes90K cochlear implant users who had at least three months of experience. The relationship between latencies and stimulation sites in the cochlea was characterized to assess the influence of the auditory pathway anatomy on ELARs, i.e., whether the speed of neural propagation varies according to the place that is activated in the cochlea. Audiograms before implantation, duration of deafness, and psychophysics at first fitting were used to describe the influence of deafness characteristics on latencies. The stimulation sites were found to have no effect on ELAR latency and, while there was no influence of psychophysics on latency, a strong relationship was shown with duration of deafness and the pre-implantation audiogram. Thus, ELAR latency was longer for poorer audiograms and longer durations of deafness and this relationship appeared to be independent of stimulation parameters such as stimulation site. Comparison between these findings and those from the equivalent study on EABR waves IIIe and Ve latency [Guiraud, J., Gallego, S., Arnold, L., Boyle, P., Truy, E., Collet, L., 2007. Effects of auditory pathway anatomy and deafness characteristics? (1): On electrically evoked auditory brainstem responses. Hear. Res. 223 (1-2), 48-60] shows that, while ELAR and EABR latencies are related with parameters that reflect the integrity of the auditory pathway, ELAR latency is less dependent on stimulation parameters than EABR latency.
Aim: The hepatitis C virus (HCV) strain JFH-1 was cloned from a patient with fulminant hepatitis. A JFH-1 subgenomic replicon and full-length JFH-1 RNA efficiently replicate in cultured cells. In this study, an infectious, selectable HCV replicon containing full-length JFH-1 cDNA was constructed. Methods: The full-genome replicon was constructed using the neomycin-resistant gene, EMCV IRES and wild-type JFH-1 cDNA. Huh7 cells were transfected with RNA synthesized in vitro, and then cultured with G418. Independent colonies were cloned to establish cell lines that replicate the full-length HCV replicon. Results: HCV RNA replication was detected in each isolated cell line. HCV proteins and HCV RNA were secreted into culture medium, and exhibited identical density profiles. Interestingly, culture supernatants of the replicon cells were infectious for nave Huh7 cells. Long-term culture did not affect replication of replicon RNA in the replicon cells, but it reduced core protein secretion and infectivity of culture supernatant. Culture supernatant obtained after serial passage of replicon virus was infectious for Huh7 cells. Conclusions: Selectable infection was established using HCV replicon containing full-length genotype 2a JFH-1 cDNA. This system might be useful for HCV research.
The hormonal factors and neural circuitry that control copulation are similar across rodent species, although there are differences in specific behavior patterns. Both estradiol (E) and dihydrotestosterone (DHT) contribute to the activation of mating, although E is more important for copulation and DHT for genital reflexes. Hormonal activation of the medial preoptic area (MPOA) is most effective, although implants in the medial amygdala (MeA) can also stimulate mounting in castrates. Chemosensory inputs from the main and accessory olfactory systems are the most important stimuli for mating in rodents, especially in hamsters, although genitosensory input also contributes. Dopamine agonists facilitate sexual behavior, and serotonin (5-HT) is generally inhibitory, though certain 5-HT receptor subtypes facilitate erection or ejaculation. Norepinephrine agonists and opiates have dose-dependent effects, with low doses facilitating and high doses inhibiting behavior.
It is vitally important to identify the genetic determinants of complex brain-related disorders such as autism, dementia, mood disorders, and schizophrenia. However, the search for genes predisposing individuals to these illnesses has been hampered by their genetic and phenotypic complexity and by reliance upon phenomenologically based qualitative diagnostic systems. Neuroimaging endophenotypes are quantitative indicators of brain structure or function that index genetic liability for an illness. These indices will significantly improve gene discovery and help us to understand the functional consequences of specific genes at the level of systems neuroscience. Here, we review the feasibility of using neuroanatomic and neuropsychological measures as endophenotypes for brain-related disorders. Specifically, we examine specific indices of brain structure or function that are genetically influenced and associated with neurological and psychiatric illness. In addition, we review genetic approaches that capitalize on the use of quantitative traits, including those derived from brain images.
Although schizophrenia is highly heritable, the search for susceptibility genes has been challenging. The &quot;endophenotype&quot; approach is an alternative method for measuring phenotypic variation that may make it easier to identify susceptibility genes in the context of complexly inherited traits. Neuroimaging methods in particular offer a powerful way to bridge the neurobiology of genes and behavior. Such investigations may be further empowered by complementary strategies involving chromosomal abnormalities associated with schizophrenia, which can help to localize causative genes and better understand the genetic complexity of the illness. Here, we illustrate our use of these convergent approaches, with a focus on neuroimaging studies using novel computational brain mapping algorithms, to investigate genetic influences on brain structure in the development of psychosis. These studies provide compelling evidence that specific genetic loci suspected to predispose to schizophrenia may affect quantitative variation in neural indicators underlying the neurobehavioral phenotype, and illustrate how genetic-neuroimaging paradigms can improve our understanding of the pathogenesis of this highly disabling mental illness.
Twin studies suggest that variation in human brain volume is genetically influenced. The genes involved in human brain volume variation are still largely unknown, but several candidate genes have been suggested. An overview of structural Magnetic Resonance (brain) Imaging studies in twins is presented, which focuses on the influence of genetic factors on variation in healthy human brain volume. Twin studies have shown that genetic effects varied regionally within the brain, with high heritabilities of frontal lobe volumes (90-95%), moderate estimates in the hippocampus (40-69%), and environmental factors influencing several medial brain areas. High heritability estimates of brain structures were revealed for regional amounts of gray matter (density) in medial frontal cortex, Heschl's gyrus, and postcentral gyrus. In addition, moderate to high heritabilities for densities of Broca's area, anterior cingulate, hippocampus, amygdala, gray matter of the parahippocampal gyrus, and white matter of the superior occipitofrontal fasciculus were reported. The high heritability for (global) brain volumes, including the intracranium, total brain, cerebral gray, and white matter, seems to be present throughout life. Estimates of genetic and environmental influences on age-related changes in brain structure in children and adults await further longitudinal twin-studies. For prefrontal cortex volume, white matter, and hippocampus volumes, a number of candidate genes have been identified, whereas for other brain areas, only a few or even a single candidate gene has been found so far. New techniques such as genome-wide scans may become helpful in the search for genes that are involved in the regulation of human brain volume throughout life.
The motor neuron diseases (MND) are a group of related neurodegenerative diseases that cause the relative selective progressive death of motor neurons. These diseases range from slowly progressive forms including hereditary motor neuropathy (HMN), to the rapidly progressive disorder amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). There is clinical and genetic overlap among these MNDs, implicating shared pathogenic mechanisms. We recruited a large family with a MND that was previously described as juvenile ALS and distal HMN. We identified a novel MND/HMN locus on chromosome 7q34-q36 following a genome-wide scan for linkage in this family. The disease causing mutation maps to a 26.2 cM (12.3 Mb) interval flanked by D7S2513 and D7S637 on chromosome 7q34-q36. Recombinant haplotype analysis including unaffected individuals suggests that the refined candidate interval spans 14.3 cM (6.3 Mb) flanked by D7S2511 and D7S798. One gene in the candidate interval, CDK5, was selected for immediate mutation analysis based upon its known association with an ALS-like phenotype in mice however, no mutations were identified. Identification of genes causing familial MND will lead to a greater understanding of the biological basis of both familial and sporadic motor neuron degeneration including ALS.
Recent data suggest that the complexation of standardised Ginkgo biloba extract (GBE) with soy-derived phospholipids enhances the bioavailability of GBE's active components. The current study therefore aimed to assess the comparative cognitive and mood effects of a low dose of GBE and products complexing the same extract with either phosphatidylserine or phosphatidylcholine. The study utilised a placebo-controlled, multi-dose, double-blind, balanced-crossover design. Twenty-eight healthy young participants received 120 mg GBE, 120 mg GBE complexed with phosphatidylserine (Virtiva), 120 mg GBE complexed with phosphatidylcholine and a matching placebo, on separate days 7 days apart. Cognitive performance was assessed using the Cognitive Drug Research (CDR) computerised test battery and Serial Subtraction tasks immediately prior to dosing and at 1, 2.5, 4 and 6 h thereafter. The primary outcome measures were the four aspects of cognitive performance, which have previously been derived by factor analysis of CDR subtests. Levels of terpenoids (bilobalide, ginkgolide A and ginkgolide B) were concomitantly assessed in plasma samples taken pre-dose and at 3 and 6.5 h post-dose.In keeping with previous research utilising the same methodology, 120 mg of GBE was not associated with markedly improved performance on the primary outcomes. However, administration of GBE complexed with phosphatidylserine resulted both in improved secondary memory performance and significantly increased speed of memory task performance across all of the post-dose testing sessions. Enhancement following GBE complexed with phosphatidylcholine was restricted to a modest improvement in secondary memory performance which was restricted to one post-dose time point. All three treatments were associated with improved calmness. There were no significant differences in post-dose levels of terpenoids between the Ginkgo containing treatments, although this latter finding may be attributable to methodological factors. Complexation with phosphatidylserine appears to potentiate the cognitive effects associated with a low dose of GBE. Further research is required to identify whether this effect is due to the complexation of the extracts, their mere combination, or the separate psychopharmacological actions of the two extracts.
Regenerative electrodes are designed to interface regenerated axons from a sectioned peripheral nerve. Applicability of regenerative electrodes depends on biocompatibility, success of axonal regeneration, secondary nerve damage, and adequacy of interface electronics. Polyimide sieve electrodes with 281 holes were chronically implanted in the severed sciatic nerve of 30 rats. Regeneration was successful in all the animals, with increasing numbers of regenerated myelinated fibers from 2 to 6 mo. However, constrictive axonopathy affected a few cases from 6 to 12 mo. postimplantation. A second electrode design with 571 holes and 27 ring electrodes was developed. The number of regenerated axons increased thanks to the larger open area. Recordings were obtained from a low proportion of electrodes on the sieve in response to distal stimulation. Difficulties for recording impulses with regenerative electrodes include the small size of regenerated axons, changes in membrane excitability and in target reconnection.
One of the fundamental principles of cortical brain regions, including the hippocampus, is that information is represented in the ensemble firing of populations of neurons, i.e., spatio-temporal patterns of electrophysiological activity. The hippocampus has long been known to be responsible for the formation of declarative, or fact-based, memories. Damage to the hippocampus disrupts the propagation of spatio-temporal patterns of activity through hippocampal internal circuitry, resulting in a severe anterograde amnesia. Developing a neural prosthesis for the damaged hippocampus requires restoring this multiple-input, multiple-output transformation of spatio-temporal patterns of activity. Because the mechanisms underlying synaptic transmission and generation of electrical activity in neurons are inherently nonlinear, any such prosthesis must be based on a nonlinear multiple-input, multiple-output model. In this paper, we have formulated the transformational process of multi-site propagation of spike activity between two subregions of the hippocampus (CA3 and CA1) as the identification of a multiple-input, multiple-output (MIMO) system, and proposed that it can be decomposed into a series of multiple-input, single-output (MISO) systems. Each MISO system is modeled as a physiologically plausible structure that consists of 1) linear/nonlinear feedforward Volterra kernels modeling synaptic transmission and dendritic integration, 2) a linear feedback Volterra kernel modeling spike-triggered after-potentials, 3) a threshold for spike generation, 4) a summation process for somatic integration, and 5) a noise term representing intrinsic neuronal noise and the contributions of unobserved inputs. Input and output spike trains were recorded from hippocampal CA3 and CA1 regions of rats performing a spatial delayed-nonmatch-to-sample memory task that requires normal hippocampal function. Kernels were expanded with Laguerre basis functions and estimated using a maximum-likelihood method. Complexity of the feedforward kernel was progressively increased to capture higher-order system nonlinear dynamics. Results showed higher prediction accuracies as kernel complexity increased. Self-kernels describe the nonlinearities within each input. Cross-kernels capture the nonlinear interaction between inputs. Second- and third-order nonlinear models were found to successfully predict the CA1 output spike distribution based on CA3 input spike trains. First-order, linear models were shown to be insufficient.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) often results in the loss of the ability to stand. The goal of this study was to implement a functional electrical stimulation (FES) system for restoring prolonged periods of standing after SCI. For this purpose, we tested two control strategies: open-loop and closed-loop control, and two stimulation paradigms: non-interleaved intramuscular stimulation (IM-S) and interleaved intraspinal microstimulation (ISMS). The experiments were conducted in anesthetized cats. Stimulation was applied to the muscles through IM-S electrodes implanted in the main knee and ankle extensor muscles, or to the spinal cord through ultra-fine ISMS wires implanted within the ventral horn of the lumbosacral enlargement. The cats were partially supported over parallel force plates and accelerometers were secured to the hindlimbs above and below the ankle joint. Ground reaction forces and knee and ankle joint angles were measured by the force plates and accelerometers, respectively. The closed-loop controller used these feedback signals to modulate the amplitude of stimulation applied to the extensor muscles. The open-loop controller applied constant levels of stimulation which were determined before the onset of each trial. The duration of standing achieved using closed-loop control of IM-S was significantly longer than that achieved with open-loop control (approximately 2 times longer). The increase in the duration of standing corresponded with a decrease in the rate of force decay and a lower average injected current during closed-loop control. Standing was further improved with the use of ISMS. Closed-loop control of interleaved ISMS resulted in a period of standing &gt; 3 times longer than the best trial generated using non-interleaved IM-S. There was also a significant improvement in the balance of force between the two hindlimbs. The results suggest that a system which uses closed-loop control in conjunction with interleaved ISMS could achieve prolonged FES standing in people with SCI.
The evaluation of the performances of brain-computer interface (BCI) systems could be difficult as a standard procedure does not exist. In fact, every research team creates its own experimental protocol (different input signals, different trial structure, different output devices, etc.) and this makes systems comparison difficult. Moreover, the great question is whether these experiments can be extrapolated to real world applications or not. To overcome some intrinsic limitations of the most used criteria a new efficiency indicator will be described and used. Its main advantages are that it can predict with a high accuracy the performances of a whole system, a fact that can be used to successfully improve its behavior. Finally, simulations were performed to illustrate that the best system is built by tuning the transducer (TR) and the control interface (CI), which are the two main components of a BCI system, so that the best TR and the best CI do not exist but just the best combination of them.
Dystonia is an involuntary movement disorder characterized by muscle contractions causing abnormal postures and spasms, affecting part or all of the body. Dystonia may be primary where an abnormal gene, most commonly DYT1, may be identified, or secondary to structural brain lesions or heredodegenerative disorders. The underlying defect is believed to be abnormal basal ganglia modulation of cortical motor pathways, and various motor and sensory physiological abnormalities have been demonstrated. The failure of medical treatment in many patients with the more severe and generalized forms of dystonia has led to renewed interest in neurosurgical treatment approaches. In recent years, deep brain stimulation (DBS) of globus pallidus internus (GPi) has emerged as an effective treatment for dystonia, particularly patients with primary generalized dystonia, where remarkable improvement may occur. In contrast to Parkinson's disease, the beneficial effects of DBS in dystonia are not immediate but progressive over weeks to months. Physiological and imaging studies in dystonia patients with GPi DBS have demonstrated both short and long-term effects of GPi DBS on motor cortex and subcortical circuits including progressive normalization of spinal and brainstem excitability after GPi DBS which correlate with clinical improvement. These effects, in light of existing physiological data in dystonia, suggest that GPi DBS acts primarily by major modification of basal ganglia output to brainstem, thalamus, and cortex resulting in neural reorganization, which may explain the characteristic progressive improvement in dystonia after GPi DBS.
Milky spots are very small omental organs, in contact with peritoneal membrane, devoid of capsule and consisting of macrophages, lymphocytes and a few plasma cells supported by blood and lymphatic vessels. The exact role of these particular organs is still not clear, but they are similar to lymphatic structures and it is clear that they play a role in peritoneal infection and abdominal tumors. Peritoneal dialysis seems to activate the milky spots changing their morphology. The authors try to formulate some hypotheses on the role played by these little omental organs during autologous mesothelial transplant.


Early adverse experiences are thought to contribute to the development of stress vulnerability, and to increase the onset of stress-related psychiatric disorders in stressful environments in adulthood. One plausible molecular mechanism of stress vulnerability is the modulation of neurotrophic factor signal transduction in the hippocampus by early adversity. In the present study we investigated the influence of neonatal isolation (NI) with or without adulthood single restraint stress (SRS) on the expression of several growth factor-related genes in the rat hippocampus using a cDNA microarray, real-time quantitative PCR, and Western blot. We found that hippocampal insulin-like growth factor-I receptor (IGF-IR) mRNA levels and immunoreactivity, and IGF binding protein-2 (IGFBP-2) mRNA levels were significantly lower in response to SRS in NI rats compared with rats without NI. Immunohistochemical analyses revealed that hippocampal IGF-IR immunoreactivity in the CA1 and CA3 pyramidal cell layers, and in the dentate gyrus granule cell layer of NI rats subjected to SRS was significantly lower compared with rats subjected to SRS. In addition, the hippocampal levels of IGF-IR mRNA were significantly lower in adult rats subjected to NI. These findings indicate that NI down-regulates IGF signal transduction under basal and stressful conditions in later life. Since the activation of IGF signalling plays a role in the development and neuroprotection of the central nervous system, the down-regulation of IGF signal transduction induced by NI may be, at least in part, involved in the development of adulthood stress vulnerability, which in turn precipitates the onset of depression.
The ability to initiate and cancel actions is a basic requirement for motor control in humans. Rapid movements to stationary targets over single joints are characterized by triphasic bursts of electromyographic (EMG) activity. While analysis of reaction time in motor activation tasks, in relation to different modalities of sensory inputs, has studied, its diametrically opposite task of motor cancellation has not been adequately addressed. We studied 9 normal right-handed subjects using biceps (agonist) and triceps (antagonist) EMG recordings. Each underwent 3 motor activation and 3 motor cancellation tasks to light, sound and dual stimuli (6 blocks). The former consisted of ballistic elbow flexion over 45 degrees, while the latter involved dropping of the forearm from a 45-degree elbow flexion angle. For motor activation, onset latencies and duration of agonist (Lat1, Dur1) and antagonist (Lat2, Dur2) muscles were recorded. For motor cancellation, onset latencies and duration of agonist (Lat1 only) and antagonist (Lat2, Dur2) were noted. Motor cancellation showed significantly shorter Dur2 EMG bursts (p &lt; .0005) for all 3 stimuli conditions. Lat1 and Lat2 demonstrated significant correlation (p &lt; 0.0005 for all), with the exception of dual stimulus condition during motor cancellation (p = 0.089). While dual stimulus during motor cancellation resulted in significantly shorter Lat2 (p = .013) in comparison with light and sound stimuli, this was not evident for motor activation tasks. The findings suggest that while a common central program exists for executing motor activation and cancellation, generation of antagonist activity in the latter may involve distinct neural pathways specifically robust to the effects of intersensory facilitation. This is discussed in relation to reciprocal motor oscillatory activity manifestations at the level of single joint movements.
We report the characterisation of the first neuropeptide receptor from the phylum Platyhelminthes, an early-diverging phylum which includes a number of important human and veterinary parasites. The G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) was identified from the model flatworm Girardia tigrina (Tricladida: Dugesiidae) based on the presence of motifs widely conserved amongst GPCRs. In two different assays utilising heterologous expression in Chinese hamster ovary cells, the Girardia GPCR was most potently activated by neuropeptides from the FMRFamide-like peptide class. The most potent platyhelminth neuropeptide in both assays was GYIRFamide, a FMRFamide-like peptide known to be present in G. tigrina. There was no activation by neuropeptide Fs, another class of flatworm neuropeptides. Also active were FMRFamide-like peptides derived from other phyla but not known to be present in any platyhelminth. Most potent among these were nematode neuropeptides encoded by the Caenorhabditis elegans flp-1 gene which share a PNFLRFamide carboxy terminal motif. The ability of nematode peptides to stimulate a platyhelminth receptor demonstrates a degree of structural conservation between FMRFamide-like peptide receptors from these two distinct, distant phyla which contain parasitic worms.
Rostral prefrontal cortex (approximating Brodmann area 10) has been shown repeatedly to have a role in the maintenance and realization of delayed intentions that are triggered by event cues (i.e., event-based prospective memory). The cerebral organization of the processes associated with the use of time cues (time-based prospective memory) has however received less attention. In two positron emission tomography (PET) studies we therefore examined brain activity associated with time- and event-based prospective memory tasks. In the time-based condition of the first study, young healthy volunteers were asked to make a prospective response based on their self-estimation of the passage of time while engaged in an attention-demanding ongoing activity. In the time-based condition of the second study, participants had a clock available in the ongoing task display and did not need to estimate the time for the prospective response. In the event-based condition of both studies, participants were asked to make a prospective response when prospective cues were presented in ongoing trials. Both studies showed activation differences in rostral prefrontal cortex according to whether the task was time- or event-based. In study one, an area of left superior frontal gyrus was more active in the time-based condition. In study two, three rostral prefrontal regions were more active in the time-based condition: right superior frontal gyrus, anterior medial frontal lobe and anterior cingulate gyrus. A region in left superior frontal gyrus, different from the area found in the first study, was more active in the event-based condition. These results indicate involvement of multiple brain regions of rostral prefrontal cortex in time- and event-based prospective memory. The results are interpreted as reflecting the differing processing demands made by event- or time-based prospective memory tasks, and the differing demands of time-based tasks according to whether a clock is present as an aid.
Advances in basic neuroscience related to neural stem cells and their malignant counterparts are challenging traditional models of central nervous system tumorigenesis and intrinsic brain repair. Neurogenesis persists into adulthood predominantly in two neurogenic centers: subventricular zone and subgranular zone. Subventricular zone is situated adjacent to lateral ventricles and subgranular zone is confined to the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. Neural stem cells not only self-renew and differentiate along multiple lineages in these regions, but also contribute to intrinsic brain plasticity and repair. Ionizing radiation can depopulate these exquisitely sensitive regions directly or impair in situ neurogenesis by indirect, dose-dependent and inflammation-mediated mechanisms, even at doses &lt;2 Gy. This review discusses the fundamental neural stem cell concepts within the framework of cumulative clinical experience with the treatment of central nervous system malignancies using conventional radiotherapy.
Monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) have been used to treat human disease for over 20 years, and have found a range of applications, predominantly in inflammatory and neoplastic disorders. They are attractive therapies due to their unique specificity and capacity for production on an industrial scale. Cytotoxic MAbs, those that trigger lysis of their cellular target, were first used to probe experimental allergic encephalomyelitis, the standard animal model of MS. Since then, antibodies with specificity for a variety of lymphocytic antigens have been used in MS, with variable results. On the basis of experience with the anti-CD52 antibody, alemtuzumab (Campath-1H), it has been postulated that clinical efficacy of some MAbs in MS may not result from cellular depletion, but from the immunomodulatory effect of the subsequent immune system reconstitution.

There is growing awareness of the mental health impact of all types of mass violence. The exposure of large population groups, mostly having no mental health problems prior to the exposure, and the subsequent development, in a significant proportion of the population, of a variety of psychiatric symptoms and disorders represent both a challenge and an opportunity for psychiatrists. There is sufficient evidence from the variety of mass violence/conflict situations, that a significant proportion of the exposed population develop different mental disorders. There are vulnerable groups like women, children, widows, orphans, elderly, disabled, those exposed to severe pain and loss of body parts. There is also a consistent finding of the dose-response to the amount of trauma and the prevalence of mental disorders. There is growing recognition that there is need to consider a variety of syndromes, in addition to post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) like acute stress disorder (ASD), depression, complicated bereavement reactions, substance use disorders, poor physical health, fear, anxiety, physiological arousal, somatisation, anger control, functional disability and arrest or regression of childhood developmental progression. The challenge is to reach all of the ill persons and provide mental health services. The opportunity provided by this field is to develop a better understanding of issues of resilience, recovery and effectiveness of public health approaches to mental health care.
In this study I have compared classic and fuzzy logic and their usefulness in clinical diagnosis. The theory of probability is often considered a device to protect the classical two-valued logic from the evidence of its inadequacy to understand and show the complexity of world [1]. This can be true, but it is not possible to discard the theory of probability. I will argue that the problems and the application fields of the theory of probability are very different from those of fuzzy logic. After the introduction on the theoretical bases of fuzzy approach to logic, I have reported some diagnostic argumentations employing fuzzy logic. The state of normality and the state of disease often fight their battle on scalar quantities of biological values and it is not hard to establish a correspondence between the biological values and the percent values of fuzzy logic. Accordingly, I have suggested some applications of fuzzy logic in clinical diagnosis and in particular I have utilised a fuzzy curve to recognise subjects with diabetes mellitus, renal failure and liver disease. The comparison between classic and fuzzy logic findings seems to indicate that fuzzy logic is more adequate to study the development of biological events. In fact, fuzzy logic is useful when we have a lot of pieces of information and when we dispose to scalar quantities. In conclusion, increasingly the development of technology offers new instruments to measure pathological parameters through scalar quantities, thus it is reasonable to think that in the future fuzzy logic will be employed more in clinical diagnosis.
Summary: Middle meningeal artery pseudo-aneurysms and arteriovenous fistulas are usually post-traumatic, although occasional iatrogenic cases have been reported. The treatment has been obliteration of the fistula by surgical or endovascular means. Spontaneous closure of fistula is uncommon. We report a case of non-traumatic middle meningeal arteriovenous fistula in a patient with alcoholism, which resolved spontaneously without treatment.
The nervous system has an in-built capability to adjust its responsiveness to excitation according to the history of electrical activity faced by the neurons embedded within its networks. This control over excitability represents a form of homeostasis and is exhibited at multiple stages in the flow of information from the genome to the expression and modification of protein products. Information on the nature of the homeostatic phenomenon at some of these stages is still limited and emerging. This article outlines the various stages at which such neuronal intrinsic plasticity has been observed and draws particular attention to the role of the translation repressor protein, Pumilio, as an important factor in the process. The study of this protein is providing insights into the regulation of neuronal excitability and offers an important research target with benefits to investigators in many areas of neuroscience.

This study investigates associations between depressive problems and classroom social status in a large population cohort of Dutch early adolescents (N = 1046, age 13.52 +/- 0.51, 52.4% girls). Depressive problems were assessed by parent and self-reports and classroom status by peer nominations. We assessed peer status with respect to both achievement-related (being a good learner, being good at sports, being good-looking) and affection-related (being liked, being disliked, being best friend) areas. In boys, depressive problems were most strongly associated with not being good at sports, while in girls the association was strongest for not being liked. The risk of a low status in one area could largely be compensated by a high status in another area.



Transduction of sound in mammalian ears is mediated by basilar-membrane waves exhibiting delays that increase systematically with distance from the cochlear base. Most contemporary accounts of such &quot;traveling-wave&quot; delays in humans have ignored postmortem basilar-membrane measurements in favor of indirect in vivo estimates derived from brainstem-evoked responses, compound action potentials, and otoacoustic emissions. Here, we show that those indirect delay estimates are either flawed or inadequately calibrated. In particular, we argue against assertions based on indirect estimates that basilar-membrane delays are much longer in humans than in experimental animals. We also estimate in vivo basilar-membrane delays in humans by correcting postmortem measurements in humans according to the effects of death on basilar-membrane vibrations in other mammalian species. The estimated in vivo basilar-membrane delays in humans are similar to delays in the hearing organs of other tetrapods, including those in which basilar membranes do not sustain traveling waves or that lack basilar membranes altogether.
Binding of EphB receptors to ephrinB ligands on the surface of adjacent cells initiates signaling cascades that regulate angiogenesis, axonal guidance, and neuronal plasticity. These functions require processing of EphB receptors and removal of EphB-ephrinB complexes from the cell surface, but the mechanisms involved are poorly understood. Here we show that the ectodomain of EphB2 receptor is released to extracellular space following cleavage after EphB2 residue 543. The remaining membrane-associated fragment is cleaved by the presenilin-dependent gamma-secretase activity after EphB2 residue 569 releasing an intracellular peptide that contains the cytoplasmic domain of EphB2. This cleavage is inhibited by presenilin 1 familial Alzheimer disease mutations. Processing of EphB2 receptor depends on specific treatments: ephrinB ligand-induced processing requires endocytosis, and the ectodomain cleavage is sensitive to peptide inhibitor N-benzyloxycarbonyl-Val-Leu-leucinal but insensitive to metalloproteinase inhibitor GM6001. The ligand-induced processing takes place in endosomes and involves the rapid degradation of the extracellular EphB2. EphrinB ligand stimulates ubiquitination of EphB2 receptor. Calcium influx- and N-methyl-d-aspartic acid-induced processing of EphB2 is inhibited by GM6001 and ADAM10 inhibitors but not by N-benzyloxycarbonyl-Val-Leu-leucinal. This processing requires no endocytosis and promotes rapid shedding of extracellular EphB2, indicating that it takes place at the plasma membrane. Our data identify novel cleavages and modifications of EphB2 receptor and indicate that specific conditions determine the proteolytic systems and subcellular sites involved in the processing of this receptor.
Contrary to its effect on the gamma-aminobutyric acid type A and C receptors, picrotoxin antagonism of the alpha1 homomeric glycine receptors (GlyRs) has been shown to be non-use-dependent and nonselective between the picrotoxin components picrotoxinin and picrotin. Picrotoxin antagonism of the embryonic alpha2 homomeric GlyR is known to be use-dependent and reflects a channel-blocking mechanism, but the selectivity of picrotoxin antagonism of the embryonic alpha2 homomeric GlyRs between picrotoxinin and picrotin is unknown. Hence, we used the patch clamp recording technique in the outside-out configuration to investigate, at the single channel level, the mechanism of picrotin- and picrotoxinin-induced inhibition of currents, which were evoked by the activation of alpha2 homomeric GlyRs stably transfected into Chinese hamster ovary cells. Although both picrotoxinin and picrotin inhibited glycine-evoked outside-out currents, picrotin had a 30 times higher IC50 than picrotoxinin. Picrotin-evoked inhibition displayed voltage dependence, whereas picrotoxinin did not. Picrotoxinin and picrotin decreased the mean open time of the channel in a concentration-dependent manner, indicating that these picrotoxin components can bind to the receptor in its open state. When picrotin and glycine were co-applied, a large rebound current was observed at the end of the application. This rebound current was considerably smaller when picrotoxinin and glycine were co-applied. Both picrotin and picrotoxinin were unable to bind to the unbound conformation of the receptor, but both could be trapped at their binding site when the channel closed during glycine dissociation. Our data indicate that picrotoxinin and picrotin are not equivalent in blocking alpha2 homomeric GlyR.
One approach for developing targeted stroke therapies is to identify the neuronal protective and destructive signaling pathways and gene expression that follow ischemic insult. In some neural injury models, the transforming growth factor-beta family member activin can provide neuroprotective effects in vivo and promote neuronal survival. This study tests if activin supports cortical neurons after ischemic challenge in vitro and if signals after cerebral ischemia involve activin in vivo. In a defined cell culture model that uses hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2))-free radical stress, activin addition maintained neuronal survival. H(2)O(2) treatment increased activin mRNA twofold in surviving cortical neurons, and inhibition of activin with neutralizing antibodies caused neuronal death. These data identify activin gene changes as a rapid response to oxidative stress, and indicate that endogenous activin acts as a protective factor for cortical neurons in vitro. Similarly, after transient focal cerebral ischemia in adult mice, activin mRNA increased at 1 and 4 h ipsilateral to the infarct but returned to control values at 24 h after reperfusion. Intracellular activated smad signals were detected in neurons adjacent to the infarct. Activin was also increased after 2 h of 11% hypoxia. Activin mRNA increased at 1 h but not 4 or 24 h after hypoxia, similar to the time course of erythropoietin and vascular endothelial growth factor induction. These findings identify activin as an early-regulated gene response to transient ischemia and hypoxia, and its function in cortical neuron survival during oxidative challenge provides a basis to test activin as a potential therapeutic in stroke injury.
To investigate the effects of bilateral subthalamic nucleus (STN) stimulation on patterns of brain activation during random number generation (RNG), a task that requires suppression of habitual counting and response selection under competition. We used H(2)(15)O positron emission tomography to investigate the changes of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) induced by bilateral STN stimulation during a RNG task, in six patients with Parkinson's disease. Paced RNG at 1 Hz was compared with a control counting task. Both tasks were performed off medication with deep brain stimulation on and off. Subthalamic nucleus stimulation had a negative effect on performance of fast-paced RNG, leading to reduced randomness and increased habitual counting. Subthalamic nucleus stimulation also induced a reduction of rCBF in the left dorsal frontal gyrus, inferior frontal gyrus, dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, posterior and right anterior cingulate, and an increase of rCBF in the right internal globus pallidum (GPi) during RNG. Stimulation of the STN significantly altered pallidal coupling with frontal and temporal areas compared with when the stimulators were off. In conclusion, during RNG: (i) STN stimulation activates its output neurons to the GPi; (ii) STN stimulation induces increased inhibition of a prefrontal-cingulate network. This is the first direct evidence that STN stimulation significantly alters pallidal coupling with prefrontal, cingulate, and temporal cortices during performance of a task that requires response selection under competition.
Hyperekplexia (OMIM 149400) is an uncommon neurologic disorder characterized by exaggerated response to sensitive stimuli. It may be sporadic or familial. The disease is usually caused by mutations in the inhibitory glycine receptor alpha1-subunit. The authors report a male patient who is affected by the major form of familial hyperekplexia. He is currently 5 years old and is being successfully treated with clonazepam. Prenatal diagnosis was made owing to prior identification of point mutation K276E in his affected mother. Early diagnosis avoided complex and prolonged differential diagnostic procedures and allowed for early and effective intervention on severe neonatal symptoms: hypertonia, episodes of cyanosis, apneic spells, and massive myoclonic jerks. During his first year of life, the patient was treated with cycles of phenobarbital and diazepam and achieved partial clinical response. Subsequent therapy with low-dose clonazepam was highly effective in reducing myoclonic jerks and exaggerated startle reaction, and unlike previously used drugs, it was decisive in reducing hypertonia.
Subacute sclerosing panencephalitis (SSPE) is a progressive disease caused by wild-type measles virus leading to premature death. Early diagnosis may help in medical interventions and counseling. The aim of this study was to ascertain diagnostic errors and their possible causes. Retrospective case record analysis of patients with subacute sclerosing panencephalitis, evaluated over a 10-year period, was performed. The following data were analyzed: initial symptoms and diagnosis, interval between onset of symptoms to diagnosis, and implications of delayed diagnosis. Among the 307 patients evaluated, initial diagnosis by various health care professionals was other than subacute sclerosing panencephalitis in 242 patients (78.8%). These included seizures, absence seizures, metachromatic leukodystrophy, Schilder's disease, cerebral palsy, hemiparkinsonism, Wilson's disease, vasculitis, spinocerebellar ataxia, motor neuron disease, nutritional amblyopia, tapetoretinal degeneration, catatonic schizophrenia, and malingering, among others. The interval between precise diagnosis and first reported symptom was 6.2 +/- 11.3 months (range, 0.2-96 months; median, 3 months). Forty-four patients (14.3%) who had symptoms for more than 1 year before the precise diagnosis had a protracted course as compared to the rest of the cohort ( P = .0001). Early and accurate diagnosis of subacute sclerosing panencephalitis needs a high index of suspicion.
A study was performed to investigate and compare the relative performance of blind signal separation (BSS) algorithms at separating common types of contamination from EEG. The study develops a novel framework for investigating and comparing the relative performance of BSS algorithms that incorporates a realistic EEG simulation with a known mixture of known signals and an objective performance metric. The key finding is that although BSS is an effective and powerful tool for separating and removing contamination from EEG, the quality of the separation is highly dependant on the type of contamination, the degree of contamination, and the choice of BSS algorithm. BSS appears to be most effective at separating muscle and blink contamination and less effective at saccadic and tracking contamination. For all types of contamination, principal components analysis is a strong performer when the contamination is greater in amplitude than the brain signal whereas other algorithms such as second-order blind inference and Infomax are generally better for specific types of contamination of lower amplitude.
To compare complications associated with surgical position, a retrospective study was conducted on 260 patients who underwent posterior fossa craniectomy. Data collected from the records included demographic profile, American Society of Anesthesiologists' physical status score, neurological status, cranial nerve involvement, associated medical illnesses, anaesthetic technique, patient position, haemodynamic changes, duration of surgery, venous air embolism (VAE), blood loss/transfusion, postoperative complications, duration of ICU stay, and postoperative neurological status. Statistical analysis was done using the Chi-square test and independent t-tests. The demographic profile and preoperative associated medical illnesses of patients were comparable between groups. The incidence of end-tidal carbon dioxide (EtCO2) detected VAE was more (p=0.00) in the sitting position than the horizontal positions (15.2% vs. 1.4%). Blood loss/transfusion and the duration of surgery were significantly higher in the horizontal position (p&lt;0.05). Brainstem handling was the most common cause of prolonged postoperative mechanical ventilation and was seen more in the sitting position. Lower cranial nerve functions were preserved better in the sitting position (p&lt;0.05). Most postoperative complications (surgical or otherwise) were comparable between the groups (p&gt;0.05). Most patients in both groups developed mild-to-moderate disability with independent lifestyle at the seventh postoperative day. To conclude, both sitting and horizontal positions can be used safely in posterior fossa surgeries.


Computational modeling is a useful tool for spelling out hypotheses in cognitive neuroscience and testing their predictions in artificial systems. Here we describe a series of simulations involving neural networks that learned to perform their task by self-organizing their internal connections. The networks controlled artificial agents with an orienting eye and an arm. Agents saw objects with various shapes and locations and learned to press a key appropriate to their shape. The results showed the following: (1) Despite being able to see the entire visual scene without moving their eye, agents learned to orient their eye toward a peripherally presented object. (2) Neural networks whose hidden layers were previously partitioned into units dedicated to eye orienting and units dedicated to arm movements learned the identification task faster and more accurately than did nonmodular networks. (3) Nonetheless, even nonmodular networks developed a similar functional segregation through self-organization of their hidden layer. (4) After partial disconnection of the hidden layer from the input layer, the lesioned agents continued to respond accurately to single stimuli, wherever they occurred, but on double simultaneous stimulation they oriented toward and responded only to the right-sided stimulus, thus simulating extinction/neglect. These results stress the generality of the advantages provided by orienting processes. Hard-wired modularity, reminiscent of the distinct cortical visual streams in the primate brain, provided further evolutionary advantages. Finally, disconnection is likely to be a mechanism of primary importance in the pathogenesis of neglect and extinction symptoms, consistent with recent evidence from animal studies and brain-damaged patients.
Recent evidence suggests that priming of objects across different images (abstract priming) and priming of specific images of an object (form-specific priming) are mediated by dissociable neural processing subsystems that operate in parallel and are predominantly linked to left and right hemispheric processing, respectively [Marsolek, C. J. Dissociable neural subsystems underlie abstract and specific object recognition. Psychological Science, 10, 111-118, 1999]. Previous brain imaging studies have provided important information about the neuroanatomical regions that are involved in form-specific and abstract priming; however, these techniques did not fully establish the functional significance of priming-related changes in cortical brain activity. Here, we used repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) in order to establish the functional role of the right occipital cortex in form-specific priming [Kroll, N. E. A., Yonelinas, A. P., Kishiyama, M. M., Baynes, K., Knight, R. T., &amp; Gazzaniga, M. S. The neural substrates of visual implicit memory: Do the two hemispheres play different roles? Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 15, 833-842, 2003]. Compared to no TMS and sham TMS, rTMS of the right occipital cortex disrupted immediate form-specific priming in a semantic categorization task. Left occipital rTMS, on the other hand, had no converse effect on abstractive priming. Abstract priming may involve deeper semantic processing and may be unresponsive to magnetic stimulation of a single cortical locus. Our TMS results show that form-specific priming relies on a visual word-form system localized in the right occipital lobe, in line with the predictions from divided visual field behavioral studies [Marsolek, 1999].
Impaired retrieval of conceptual knowledge for actions has been associated with lesions of left premotor, left parietal, and left middle temporal areas [Tranel, D., Kemmerer, D., Adolphs, R., Damasio, H., &amp; Damasio, A. R. Neural correlates of conceptual knowledge for actions. Cognitive Neuropsychology, 409-432, 2003]. Here we aimed at characterizing the differential contribution of these areas to the retrieval of conceptual knowledge about actions. During functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), different categories of pictograms (whole-body actions, manipulable and nonmanipulable objects) were presented to healthy subjects. fMRI data were analyzed using SPM2. A conjunction analysis of the neural activations elicited by all pictograms revealed ( p&lt;.05, corrected) a bilateral inferior occipito-temporal neural network with strong activations in the right and left fusiform gyri. Action pictograms contrasted to object pictograms showed differential activation of area MT+, the inferior and superior parietal cortex, and the premotor cortex bilaterally. An analysis of psychophysiological interactions identified contribution-dependent changes in the neural responses when pictograms triggered the retrieval of conceptual action knowledge: Processing of action pictograms specifically enhanced the neural interaction between the right and left fusiform gyri, the right and left middle temporal cortices (MT+), and the left superior and inferior parietal cortex. These results complement and extend previous neuropsychological and neuroimaging studies by showing that knowledge about action concepts results from an increased coupling between areas concerned with semantic processing (fusiform gyrus), movement perception (MT+), and temporospatial movement control (left parietal cortex).
Tuberoinfundibular peptide of 39 residues (TIP39) was identified as a potent parathyroid hormone 2 receptor (PTH2R) agonist. Existing anatomical data also support the suggestion that TIP39 is the PTH2R's endogenous ligand, but a comprehensive comparison of TIP39 and PTH2R distributions has not been performed. In the present study, we compared the distributions of TIP39 and PTH2R on adjacent mouse brain sections. In addition, we determined the locations of PTH2R-expressing cell bodies by in situ hybridization histochemistry and by labeling beta-galactosidase driven by the PTH2R promoter in knockin mice. An excellent correlation was found between the distributions of TIP39-containing fibers and PTH2R-containing cell bodies and fibers throughout the brain. TIP39 and the PTH2R are abundant in medial prefrontal, insular, and ectorhinal cortices, the lateral septal nucleus, the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the fundus striati, the amygdala, the ventral subiculum, the hypothalamus, midline and intralaminar thalamic nuclei, the medial geniculate body, the periaqueductal gray, the ventral tegmental area, the superior and inferior colliculi, the parabrachial nuclei, the locus coeruleus, subcoeruleus and periolivary areas, and the nucleus of the solitary tract. Furthermore, even the subregional distribution of TIP39- and PTH2R-immunoreactive fibers in these regions showed remarkable similarities, providing anatomical evidence that TIP39 may act on the PTH2R. Based on these observations and on previous pharmacological data, we propose that TIP39 is an endogenous ligand of the PTH2R and that they form a neuromodulator system, which is optimally positioned to regulate limbic, endocrine, and auditory brain functions. Published 2007 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
Neural development requires regulation and coordination of the differentiation, migration, and survival of newly divided cells, most of which derive from the region surrounding the lateral ventricles. While many factors are involved in these maturational processes, studies of cell proliferation and neurogenesis in songbirds indicate that sex steroids may provide crucial cues to newly divided cells and may be fundamental to the organization of a specific neural circuit, the song system. In the case of the zebra finch, steroids that impact song system masculinization are most likely not synthesized from the gonads but from the brain, and evidence is mounting that both developing and adult zebra finches have the capacity for neurosteroidogenesis. Therefore, we hypothesized that during early development, all of the genes required for de novo sex steroid synthesis would be expressed in regions that would indicate a role for neurosteroids in neural organization. We found that the genes necessary for de novo neurosteroid synthesis at posthatch day 1 (P1) and P5 show a broad expression distribution. Most strikingly, the spatial distribution of expression for all of the genes necessary for androgen synthesis is similar to the previously described pattern of proliferating neuronal precursors along the lateral border of the lateral ventricle. Due to the increasing evidence for neurosteroid action on multiple cell traits, it may be that locally synthesized neurosteroids impact cells along the proliferative zone to influence early events in neural development generally and song system masculinization specifically.
After injury, regrowth of axons in mammalian adult central nervous system is highly limited. However, in monkeys subjected to unilateral cervical lesion (C7-C8 level), neutralization of an important neurite outgrowth inhibitor, Nogo-A, stimulated axonal sprouting caudal to the lesion, accompanied by enhanced functional recovery of manual dexterity, compared with lesioned monkeys treated with a control antibody (Freund et al. [2006] Nat. Med. 12:790-792). The present study aimed at comparing the same two groups of monkeys for axonal sprouting rostral to the cervical lesion. The corticospinal tract was labeled by injecting the anterograde tracer biotinylated dextran amine into the contralesional motor cortex. The corticospinal axons were interrupted at the level of the lesion, accompanied by retrograde axonal degeneration (axon dieback), reflected by the presence of terminal retraction bulbs. The number of terminal retraction bulbs was lower in anti-Nogo-A antibody treated monkeys, and, when present, they were found closer to the lesion than in control-antibody treated monkeys. Compared with control antibody treated monkeys, the anti-Nogo-A antibody treated monkeys exhibited an increased cumulated axon arbor length and a higher number of axon arbors going in the medial direction from the white to the gray matter. Higher in the cervical cord (at C5 level), the anti-Nogo-A treatment enhanced the number of corticospinal fibers crossing the midline, suggesting axonal sprouting. Thus, the anti-Nogo-A antibody treatment enhanced axonal sprouting rostral to the cervical lesion; some of these fibers grew around the lesion and into the caudal spinal segments. These processes paralleled the observed improved functional recovery.

Single particle analysis is a computer-aided method for determining protein structure using particle images obtained by electron microscopy. This technique has great advantages, especially for analyzing fragile membrane-integrated proteins including ion channels, transporters, and receptors, and for analyzing large complexes difficult to crystallize. It is also useful in the analysis of dynamic conformational changes. We previously determined the structure of TRPC3 (canonical transient receptor potential-3) from negatively stained specimens and from ice-embedded specimens using single particle analysis (BBRC 333: 768-777, 2005; JMB 367: 373-383, 2007). These analyses revealed TRPC3's unique structural features, as well as demonstrating the first visual evidence of the tetramer structure. In establishing the purification procedure, we noticed that the stability of the tetrameric assembly of TRPC3 subunits is largely dependent on the cation concentration in the solution. Here, we report that the TRPC3 tetramer dissociates to monomers under high-salt conditions. It was demonstrated as a delay of elution in size exclusion chromatography, or as a loss of tetrameric protein bands in cross-linking experiments. Electron microscopy of the negatively stained specimens demonstrated that the large tetrameric TRPC3 (200 A in width and 240 A in height) dissociates to round-shaped monomer particles (100 A in diameter) in an ion-strength-dependent manner. These results also suggested that electron microscopy is highly effective when used in the &quot;quality check&quot; of the specimen in each purification step.
Using single particle images taken by electron microscopy, pH-dependent conformational changes of human serum albumin were investigated. Despite the noisy particle images of negatively stained serum albumin (67 kDa), our novel algorithm for automated particle picking and reference-free classification resulted in the appropriate grouping of the particle images. Iteratively aligned particle images in the same group provided recognizable image features for individual groups. In a pH 7.0 study, monomer images were consistent with an available crystal structure model; the dimer images were separated into different classes. At pH 3.5, the monomer images were similar to those at pH 7.0; slight differences included a small number of elongated conformations and increased population of larger multimers. Our images were also compared with projection images of an atomic model from crystallography, and demonstrated consistency of the molecular conformation both at pH 7.0 and pH 3.5. Our classification method was effective in discriminating monomers from a mixture of different conformations of the protein, enabling the study of the conformational dynamics of small proteins, using the atomic model as a reference.
The dynamic and ever-evolving nature of neuroimaging research creates important ethical challenges. New domains of neuroscience research and improving technological capabilities in neuroimaging have expanded the scope of studies that probe the biology of the social and ethical brain, the range of eligible volunteers for research, and the extent of academic-industry relationships. Accordingly, challenges in informed consent and subject protection are surfacing. In this context, we provide an overview of the current landscape for neuroimaging and discuss specific research ethics topics arising from it. We suggest preliminary approaches to tackle current issues, and identify areas for further collaboration between neuroimagers and institutional review boards (research ethics committee).
Insects can guide themselves along a familiar route to a familiar place by retrieving and using visual snapshots that they have stored both along the route and at their destination and moving so that their current views match the target snapshots. To learn more about the matching process, we have investigated the interaction of snapshots by engineering a situation in which ants simultaneously retrieve two sets of memories. Ants were trained from a fixed start position to feed in one site, after which the feeder was switched to a new one. It could take up to 30 trials after the switch before the ants headed directly to the new food site. We suppose that during this transition phase ants retrieve memories appropriate for both sites. We compared the ants' behaviour for two different sized separations between feeder sites. When the sites are relatively close together, the initial headings of the ants' paths rotated gradually from aiming directly at the first food site to aiming at the second food site, suggesting that ants' paths are controlled by the weighted average of two simultaneously activated snapshot attractors. By contrast, when the food sites were further apart, initial headings switched abruptly between the two sites - ants either headed for food site 1 or for food site 2. We show that these differences in transition behaviour can be simulated by the co-activation of snapshot attractors of restricted spatial extent, such that features encoded in a snapshot are only recognised if they occur within a limited retinal distance of the stored position of the feature.

Research on the neural correlates of decision making in gambling tasks may be informative for understanding problem gambling. The present study explored confidence and overconfidence using magnetoencephalography (MEG) to measure brain activity during a judgment task. Nineteen undergraduates who self-identified as frequent gamblers (average age 19.7 years; 5 females, 14 males) participated in this study. Participants first completed the DIGS (Winters, Specker &amp; Stinchfield, 2002), a measure of gambling pathology. They then engaged in a behavioral task of confidence assessment, wherein they answered two-alternative trivia questions and estimated the probability that each answer was correct. In a subsequent MEG task, they viewed the questions and a target answer, and indicated with a button press whether the target matched the correct answer. Confidence was directly related to activity in the right prefrontal cortex. Matching and mismatching targets were associated with activity in the medial occipital cortex and left supramarginal gyrus, respectively. An interaction of pathology and match/mismatch was observed in the right inferior occipital-temporal junction region, showing more activity following a mismatch in non-problem gamblers, but not in problem gamblers. Implications of the results for understanding of top-down modulation and attentional systems are discussed in relation to gambling behavior.
The Goto Kakizaki (GK) rat is a widely used animal model to study defective glucose-stimulated insulin release in type-2 diabetes (T2D). As in T2D patients, the expression of several proteins involved in Ca(2+)-dependent exocytosis of insulin-containing large dense-core vesicles is dysregulated in this model. So far, a defect in late steps of insulin secretion could not be demonstrated. To resolve this apparent contradiction, we studied Ca(2+)-secretion coupling of healthy and GK rat beta cells in acute pancreatic tissue slices by assessing exocytosis with high time-resolution membrane capacitance measurements. We found that beta cells of GK rats respond to glucose stimulation with a normal increase in the cytosolic Ca(2+) concentration. During trains of depolarizing pulses, the secretory activity from GK rat beta cells was defective in spite of upregulated cell size and doubled voltage-activated Ca(2+) currents. In GK rat beta cells, evoked Ca(2+) entry was significantly less efficient in triggering release than in nondiabetic controls. This impairment was neither due to a decrease of functional vesicle pool sizes nor due to different kinetics of pool refilling. Strong stimulation with two successive trains of depolarizing pulses led to a prominent activity-dependent facilitation of release in GK rat beta cells, whereas secretion in controls was unaffected. Broad-spectrum inhibition of PKC sensitized Ca(2+)-dependent exocytosis, whereas it prevented the activity-dependent facilitation in GK rat beta cells. We conclude that a decrease in the sensitivity of the GK rat beta-cell to depolarization-evoked Ca(2+) influx is involved in defective glucose-stimulated insulin secretion. Furthermore, we discuss a role for constitutively increased activity of one or more PKC isoenzymes in diabetic rat beta cells.
The goal of this study was to explore the relationship between indicators of sympathoneural, sympathomedullar and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) activity and stress-induced head and shoulder-neck pain in patients with migraine or tension-type headache (TTH). We measured noradrenaline, adrenaline and cortisol levels before and after low-grade cognitive stress in 21 migraineurs, 16 TTH patients and 34 controls. The stressor lasted for 60 min and was followed by 30 min of relaxation. Migraine patients had lower noradrenaline levels in blood platelets compared to controls. Pain responses correlated negatively with noradrenaline levels, and pain recovery correlated negatively with the cortisol change in migraineurs. TTH patients maintained cortisol secretion during the cognitive stress as opposed to the normal circadian decrease seen in controls and migraineurs. There may therefore be abnormal activation of the HPA axis in patients with TTH when coping with mental stress, but no association was found between pain and cortisol. A relationship between HPA activity and stress in TTH patients has to our knowledge not been reported before. In migraine, on the other hand, both sympathoneural activation and HPA activation seem to be linked to stress-induced muscle pain and recovery from pain respectively. The present study suggests that migraineurs and TTH patients cope differently with low-grade cognitive stress.
The objective of this study was to investigate the association between polymorphisms of the hypocretin receptor 2 gene (HCRTR2) and the risk of cluster headache (CH). The study is a meta-analysis of published case-control studies investigating the association between polymorphisms of the HCRTR2 gene and CH. Pooled odds ratios (OR) were estimated using both random (RE) and fixed effects (FE) models. Three studies, performed in five different European countries, with 593 cases and 599 controls, were included in the study. Allele G of the G1246A HCRTR2 polymorphism was significantly associated with CH (FE OR 1.58, CI 95% 1.27-1.95; RE OR 1.55 (1.14-2.12)). Carriers of the GG genotype showed a higher disease risk compared to the remaining genotypes (FE OR 1.75, CI 95% 1.37-2.25; RE OR 1.69, CI 95% 1.11-2.58). Our data confirm that the G1246A polymorphism of the HCRTR2 gene may modulate the genetic risk for CH.
The aim of this study was to test genetic differences in the clinical response to rizatriptan in patients affected by migraine without aura. These genetic differences could be explained by various genes, the HTR1B, encoding the 5-HT(1) receptor subtype, MAOA gene that encodes the monoamino-oxidase, the main metabolic enzyme of this triptan, SLC6A4 (gene encoding the serotonin transporter) and DRD(2) (gene encoding the D(2) receptor), both involved in the pathogenesis of migraine. Fifty unrelated patients affected by migraine without aura (IHS) were included. Patients were divided into two groups (responders and non-responders) according to clinical response. Thirty-one out of fifty patients responded to rizatriptan. A significant difference among the two groups was observed in both allele (p=0.02) and genotype distribution (p=0.03) of DRD2/NcoI. The significant association with the DRD2/NcoI polymorphism in responders suggested that the DRD2/NcoI C allele may be considered a susceptibility factor heralding a good response to rizatriptan.

Cells of the monocyte/macrophage lineage have been shown to be the principal targets for productive HIV-1 replication within the CNS. In addition, HIV-1-associated dementia (HAD) has been shown to correlate with macrophage abundance in the brain. Although increased entry of monocytes into the brain is thought to initiate this process, mechanisms that prevent macrophage egress from the brain and means that prevent macrophage death may also contribute to cell accumulation. We hypothesized that osteopontin (OPN) was involved in the accumulation of macrophages in the brain in neuroAIDS. Using in vitro model systems, we have demonstrated the role of OPN in two distinct aspects of macrophage accumulation: prevention from recirculation and protection from apoptosis. In these unique mechanisms, OPN would aid in macrophage survival and accumulation in the brain, the pathological substrate of HAD.
Because appropriate cell-culture systems or small-animal models have been lacking, the early steps in the HCV life cycle have been difficult to study. A cell culture system was developed recently that allows production of infectious HCV. In this study, infectious HCV particles produced in cultured cells were used. To clarify the role of CD81 in HCV attachment and entry, the effect of anti-CD81 antibody was examined. The antibody blocked HCV virion entry but not particle attachment. Only the fraction bound to a heparin affinity column and eluted with 0.3 M NaCl productively infected Huh7 cells, indicating that infectious HCV particles bind to heparin. Both heparin treatment of the virus particles and heparinase treatment of the Huh7 cells reduced virus-cell binding without substantially inhibiting HCV infectivity. Finally, to confirm the role of both heparin sulfate proteoglycan (HSPG) and CD81 in HCV entry, the effects of heparinase I and anti-CD81 antibody were analyzed. No productive RNA replication was detected in the Huh7 cells in the presence of both heparinase I and anti-CD81 antibody. In conclusion, these data suggested that both HSPG and CD81 are important for HCV entry. HSPG may play a role in the initial cell surface binding of infectious HCV particles and CD81 is conceivably correlated with HCV entry after viral attachment.
Gap junctions and purinergic P2 receptors (P2Rs) can be regarded as belonging to a common functional unit, given that they are involved in the transmission of calcium signals between cells. We have previously shown that deletion of the Gja1 gene alters expression levels of numerous genes encoding proteins with diverse functions, including purinergic receptors (P2Rs), and have found that genes synergistically or antagonistically expressed in wild-type tissues are more prone to be similarly or oppositely regulated in Cx43-nulls. We have now explored the use of coordination analysis of gene expression as a strategy to identify interlinked genes encoding functionally related proteins and pull-downs to evaluate their interlinkage. Our findings indicate that, in brain and in cultured astrocytes, several of these coexpressed genes encode proteins that are components of P2R signal-transduction pathways and/or directly interact with these receptors, including the gap junction protein connexin43 (Cx43) and Cx45 as well as pannexins. It is proposed that coordination analysis of gene expression may provide a novel unbiased strategy for the identification of proteins belonging to supramolecular complexes.
pChAT is a splice variant of a peripheral type encoded alternatively by the gene for choline acetyltransferase of the common type (cChAT), the enzyme responsible for acetylcholine synthesis. Immunohistochemistry using pChAT antiserum has successfully visualized many known peripheral cholinergic cells, whereas most cChAT antibodies failed to do so. As, however, accumulating evidence indicates that pChAT expression also occurs in various non-cholinergic neurons, we examined possible acetylcholine production by pChAT in rat dorsal root ganglion as a model. The present study indicated that the ganglion neurons possessed pChAT, but never cChAT, mRNA and protein. Our detailed analysis further showed that, despite low enzyme activities of both choline acetyltransferase and acetylcholinesterase, the level of acetylcholine in the ganglion was as high as to that in various brain regions receiving cholinergic innervation. By using immunoprecipitation methods, we here provide evidence that pChAT definitely has enzyme activity enough to supply physiological concentrations of acetylcholine in the ganglion. We propose that pChAT contributes both to acetylcholine neurotransmission in physiologically identified cholinergic cells and to functions yet unknown in non-cholinergic neurons. Thus pChAT provides a new window on the role of neuronal acetylcholine.
Conversion of the cellular prion protein (PrP(C)) into the abnormal scrapie isoform (PrP(Sc)) is the hallmark of prion diseases, which are fatal and transmissible neurodegenerative disorders. ER-retained anti-prion recombinant single-chain Fv fragments have been proved to be an effective tool for inhibition of PrP(C) trafficking to the cell surface and antagonize PrP(Sc) formation and infectivity. In the present study, we have generated the secreted version of 8H4 intrabody (Sec-8H4) in order to compel PrP(C) outside the cells. The stable expression of the Sec-8H4 intrabodies induces proteasome degradation of endogenous prion protein but does not influence its glycosylation profile and maturation. Moreover, we found a dramatic diverting of PrP(C) traffic from its vesicular secretion and, most importantly, a total inhibition of PrP(Sc) accumulation in NGF-differentiated Sec-8H4 PC12 cells. These results confirm that perturbing the intracellular traffic of endogenous PrP(C) is an effective strategy to inhibit PrP(Sc) accumulation and provide convincing evidences for application of intracellular antibodies in prion diseases.
Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP)-deficient mice are prone to sudden neonatal death and have reduced respiratory response to hypoxia. Here we found that PACAP-38 elevated cytosolic [Ca(2+)] ([Ca(2+)](i)) in the oxygen sensing type I cells but not the glial-like type II (sustentacular) cells of the rat carotid body. This action of PACAP could not be mimicked by vasoactive intestinal peptide but was abolished by PACAP 6-38, implicating the involvement of PAC(1) receptors. H89, a protein kinase A (PKA) inhibitor attenuated the PACAP response. Simultaneous measurement of membrane potential and [Ca(2+)](i) showed that the PACAP-mediated [Ca(2+)](i) rise was accompanied by depolarization and action potential firing. Ni(2+), a blocker of voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels (VGCC) or the removal of extracellular Ca(2+) reversibly inhibited the PACAP-mediated [Ca(2+)](i) rise. In the presence of tetraethylammonium (TEA) and 4-aminopyridine (4-AP), PACAP reduced a background K(+) current. Anandamide, a blocker of TWIK-related acid-sensitive K(+) (TASK)-like K(+) channel, occluded the inhibitory action of PACAP on K(+) current. We conclude that PACAP, acting via the PAC(1) receptors coupled PKA pathway inhibits a TASK-like K(+) current and causes depolarization and VGCC activation. This stimulatory action of PACAP in carotid type I cells can partly account for the role of PACAP in respiratory disorders.

Adenosine is well known to be released during cerebral metabolic stress and is believed to be neuroprotective. ATP release under similar circumstances has been much less studied. We have now used biosensors to measure and compare in real time the release of ATP and adenosine during in vitro ischaemia in hippocampal slices. ATP release only occurred following the anoxic depolarisation, whereas adenosine release was apparent almost immediately after the onset of ischaemia. ATP release required extracellular Ca2+. By contrast adenosine release was enhanced by removal of extracellular Ca2+, whilst TTX had no effect on either ATP release or adenosine release. Blockade of ionotropic glutamate receptors substantially enhanced ATP release, but had only a modest effect on adenosine release. Carbenoxolone, an inhibitor of gap junction hemichannels, also greatly enhanced ischaemic ATP release, but had little effect on adenosine release. The ecto-ATPase inhibitor ARL 67156, whilst modestly enhancing the ATP signal detected during ischaemia, had no effect on adenosine release. Adenosine release during ischaemia was reduced by pretreatment with homosysteine thiolactone suggesting an intracellular origin. Adenosine transport inhibitors did not inhibit adenosine release, but instead they caused a twofold increase of release. Our data suggest that ATP and adenosine release during ischaemia are for the most part independent processes with distinct underlying mechanisms. These two purines will consequently confer temporally distinct influences on neuronal and glial function in the ischaemic brain.
The vesicular glutamate transporters (VGLUTs) are responsible for packaging glutamate into synaptic vesicles, and are part of a family of structurally related proteins that mediate organic anion transport. Standard computer-based predictions of transmembrane domains have led to divergent topological models, indicating the need for experimentally derived predictions. Here we present data on the topology of the VGLUT ortholog from Drosophila melanogaster (DVGLUT). Using immunofluorescence assays of DVGLUT transiently localized to the plasma membrane of heterologously transfected cells, we have determined the accessibility of epitope tags inserted into the lumenal/extracellular face of the protein. Using immunoisolation, we have identified complementary tagged sites that face the cytoplasm. Our data show that DVGLUT contains 10 hydrophobic regions that completely span the membrane (TMs 1-10) and that the amino and carboxyl termini are cytosolic. Importantly, between TMs 4 and 5 is an unforeseen cytosolic loop of some 50 residues. Other domains exposed to the cytosol include loops between TMs 6-7 and 8-9, and regions C-terminal to TM2 and N-terminal to TM3. Between TM2 and 3 is a potentially hydrophobic, but topologically ambiguous region. Lumenal domains include sequences between TMs 1-2, 3-4, 5-6, 7-8 and 9-10. These data provide a basis for determining structure-function relationships for DVGLUT and other related proteins.
Synaptic vesicles are key organelles in neurotransmission. Vesicle integral or membrane-associated proteins mediate the various functions the organelle fulfills during its life cycle. These include organelle transport, interaction with the nerve terminal cytoskeleton, uptake and storage of low molecular weight constituents, and the regulated interaction with the pre-synaptic plasma membrane during exo- and endocytosis. Within the past two decades, converging work from several laboratories resulted in the molecular and functional characterization of the proteinaceous inventory of the synaptic vesicle compartment. However, up until recently and due to technical difficulties, it was impossible to screen the entire organelle thoroughly. Recent advances in membrane protein identification and mass spectrometry (MS) have dramatically promoted this field. A comparison of different techniques for elucidating the proteinaceous composition of synaptic vesicles revealed numerous overlaps but also remarkable differences in the protein constituents of the synaptic vesicle compartment, indicating that several protein separation techniques in combination with differing MS approaches are required to identify and characterize the synaptic vesicle proteome. This review highlights the power of various gel separation techniques and MS analyses for the characterization of the proteome of highly purified synaptic vesicles. Furthermore, the newly detected protein assignments to synaptic vesicles, especially those proteins which are new to the inventory of the synaptic vesicle proteome, are critically discussed.
Dystroglycan is a central component of the dystrophin-glycoprotein complex that links the extracellular matrix with cytoskeleton. Recently, mutations of the genes encoding putative glycosyltransferases were identified in several forms of congenital muscular dystrophies accompanied by brain anomalies and eye abnormalities, and aberrant glycosylation of alpha-dystroglycan has been implicated in their pathogeneses. These diseases are now collectively called alpha-dystroglycanopathy. In this study, we demonstrate that peripheral nerve myelination is defective in the fukutin-deficient chimeric mice, a mouse model of Fukuyama-type congenital muscular dystrophy, which is the most common alpha-dystroglycanopathy in Japan. In the peripheral nerve of these mice, the density of myelinated nerve fibers was significantly decreased and clusters of abnormally large non-myelinated axons were ensheathed by a single Schwann cell, indicating a defect of the radial sorting mechanism. The sugar chain moiety and laminin-binding activity of alpha-dystroglycan were severely reduced, while the expression of beta1-integrin was not altered in the peripheral nerve of the chimeric mice. We also show that the clustering of acetylcholine receptor is defective and neuromuscular junctions are fragmented in appearance in these mice. Expression of agrin and laminin as well as the binding activity of alpha-dystroglycan to these ligands was severely reduced at the neuromuscular junction. These results demonstrate that fukutin plays crucial roles in the myelination of peripheral nerve and formation of neuromuscular junction. They also suggest that defective glycosylation of alpha-dystroglycan may play a role in the impairment of these processes in the deficiency of fukutin.
Oestradiol and progesterone act in the hypothalamus to coordinate the timing of lordosis and ovulation in female rats in part through regulation of nitric oxide (NO) and cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cyclic GMP) signalling pathways. Soluble guanylyl cyclase is an enzyme that produces cyclic GMP when stimulated by NO and plays a crucial role in the display of lordosis behaviour. We examined the effects of oestradiol and progesterone on the stimulation of cyclic GMP synthesis by NO-dependent and independent activators of soluble guanylyl cyclase in preoptic-hypothalamic and hippocampal slices. Ovariectomised Sprague-Dawley rats were injected with oestradiol (2 microg oestradiol benzoate, s.c.) or vehicle for 2 days. Progesterone (500 microg, s.c.) or vehicle was injected 44 h after the first dose of oestradiol. Rats were killed 48 h after the first oestradiol or vehicle injection, and hypothalamus and hippocampus were obtained. NO-dependent activation of soluble guanylyl cyclase was induced by NO donors, sodium nitroprusside or diethylamine NONOate; NO-independent activation of soluble guanylyl cyclase was induced with 3-(5'-hydroxymethyl-2'-furyl)-1-benzyl indazole and 5'-cyclopropyl-2-[1-2fluoro-benzyl)-1H-pyrazolo[3,4-b]pyridine-3-yl]pyridine-4-ylamine. The NO-dependent activators of soluble guanylyl cyclase produced a concentration-dependent increase in cyclic GMP accumulation and induced significantly greater cyclic GMP accumulation in preoptic-hypothalamic slices from animals treated with oestradiol and progesterone than in slices from rats injected with vehicle, oestradiol or progesterone alone. Hormones did not modify soluble guanylyl cyclase activation by NO-independent stimulators or influence NO content in preoptic-hypothalamic slices. Oestradiol and progesterone did not affect activation of soluble guanylyl cyclase in hippocampal slices by any pharmacological agent, indicating a strong regional selectivity for the hormone effect. Thus, oestradiol and progesterone, administered in vivo, enhance the ability of NO to activate soluble guanylyl cyclase in brain areas modulating female reproductive function without an effect on production of NO itself.
Accumulating evidence suggests that bone-marrow (BM)-derived mononuclear phagocytes have an important role in the clearance of soluble and aggregated amyloid-beta peptides (Abeta) in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brains. However, the exact kinetics of Abeta clearance in mononuclear phagocytes derived from transgenic animal models of AD expressing beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) mutants have been poorly characterized. We have examined whether CCL2 and APP expression affects the clearance of Abeta in conjunction with our control, acetylated low-density lipoprotein (AcLDL), using primary cultured BM-derived macrophages derived from adult APP, CCL2, APP/CCL2, and control littermates. Pulse-chase analysis demonstrated three distinct destinations for Abeta40 and AcLDL: intracellular retention, degradation, and secretion. As predicted, 50% of Abeta remained intracellularly contained even 5 days after pulse, while 40% of degraded and 14% of nondegraded Abeta were secreted. APP/CCL2 macrophages show reduced intracellular Abeta retention, along with enhanced secretion of both degraded and nondegraded Abeta. Abeta accumulation in aggresome is also partially reduced in APP/CCL2 macrophages as compared to other APP, CCL2, or control groups, suggesting impaired sorting of aggregated Abeta in aggresomes. The degradation of intracranially injected (125)I-Abeta40 aggregates was also enhanced in adult APP/CCL2 mice as compared to APP littermates in vivo. These data suggest that APP and CCL2 synergistically enhance BM-derived macrophage-mediated clearance of Abeta. In contrast, the clearance of AcLDL by BM-derived macrophages was not significantly enhanced by the presence of either APP or CCL2.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is the most common human demyelinating disease of the central nervous system where oxidative stress has been proposed to play an important role in oligodendroglial death. However, molecular mechanisms that couple oxidative stress to the loss of oligodendrocytes are poorly understood. This study underlines the importance of neutral sphingomyelinase-ceramide pathway in mediating oxidative stress-induced apoptosis and cell death of human primary oligodendrocytes. Various oxidative stress-inducing agents, such as, superoxide radical produced by hypoxanthine and xanthine oxidase, hydrogen peroxide, aminotriazole capable of inhibiting catalase and increasing intracellular level of H2O2, or reduced glutathione-depleting diamide induced the activation of neutral sphingomyelinase and the production of ceramide. It is interesting to note that antisense knockdown of neutral but not acidic sphingomyelinase ablated oxidative stress-induced apoptosis and cell death in human primary oligodendrocytes. This study identifies neutral but not acidic sphingomyelinase as a target for possible therapeutic intervention in MS.
This is a brief summary of the animal models session held during the 12th Annual Meeting of the Society on NeuroImmune Pharmacology, Santa Fe, NM, USA. This session provided important information for participants on availability and utility of animal models for the studies of HIV-1 central nervous system infection and drug abuse. It highlighted animal model relevance to human disease/condition, its utility for the studies of pathogenesis, potential importance for the development of therapeutics, and demonstrated limitations/pitfalls.
Invasion of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) into the central and peripheral nervous system produces a wide range of neurological symptoms, which continue to persist even with adequate therapeutic suppression of the systemic viremia. The development of therapies designed to prevent the neurological complications of HIV require a detailed understanding of the mechanisms of virus penetration into the nervous system, infection, and subsequent neuropathogenesis. These processes, however, are difficult to study in humans. The identification of animal lentiviruses similar to HIV has provided useful models of HIV infection that have greatly facilitated these efforts. This review summarizes contributions made from in vitro and in vivo studies on the infectious and pathological interactions of feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV) with the nervous system. In vivo studies on FIV have provided insights into the natural progression of CNS disease as well as the contribution of various risk factors. In vitro studies have contributed to our understanding of immune cell trafficking, CNS infection and neuropathogenesis. Together, these studies have made unique contributions to our understanding of (1) lentiviral interactions at the blood-cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) barrier within the choroid plexus, (2) early FIV invasion and pathogenesis in the brain, and (3) lentiviral effects on intracellular calcium deregulation and neuronal dysfunction. The ability to combine in vitro and in vivo studies on FIV offers enormous potential to explore neuropathogenic mechanisms and generate information necessary for the development of effective therapeutic interventions.






Kenji Ohtsuka, MD and his colleagues at the Sapporo Medical University have investigated the central organization of the near response with anatomical and neurophysiologic studies in cats. Based on their data and clinical observations, they proposed that the rostral pole of the superior colliculus has a critical role in the control of accommodation, vergence, and fixation. Although the central pathways have yet to be fully worked out, the contributions of Dr. Ohtsuka, who died in 2005, have laid an important foundation in the understanding of these functions.
Epidemiologic evidence has underlined the impact of prenatal inflammation on the development of postnatal hypoxia-ischemia (HI) brain injury. To study to what extent prenatal inflammation affects CNS vulnerability later during development, C57BL/6 mice were subjected to intrauterine injection of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) at gestational day 15. At postnatal day (PND) 5, 9, and 70, the offspring were subjected to HI. It was found that, in neonatal mice, LPS-exposed brains showed markedly enhanced brain injury after HI, whereas in adult mice, LPS exposure resulted in a significant reduction in tissue loss after HI. Reduced myelin in subcortical white matter was noticed after HI in the LPS-exposed brains at PND14 and PND75. Increased activities of nuclear factor-kappaB and caspase-3 were obtained in fetal/neonatal brain after LPS administration. Conclusions were that 1) a prenatal low dose of LPS sensitized to HI-induced brain injury in neonates but confers protection in adulthood, 2) reduced myelination is seen after prenatal LPS exposure and HI in both neonatal and adult mice despite the fact that LPS reduced total tissue loss in adult mice; and 3) nuclear factor-kappaB and caspase-3 activation early after LPS exposure may play a role in the sensitization/protection (preconditioning) effects.
A retinal ganglion cell receptive field is made up of an excitatory center and an inhibitory surround. The surround has two components: one driven by horizontal cells at the first synaptic layer and one driven by amacrine cells at the second synaptic layer. Here we characterized how amacrine cells inhibit the center response of on- and off-center Y-type ganglion cells in the in vitro guinea pig retina. A high spatial frequency grating (4-5 cyc/mm), beyond the spatial resolution of horizontal cells, drifted in the ganglion cell receptive field periphery to stimulate amacrine cells. The peripheral grating suppressed the ganglion cell spiking response to a central spot. Suppression of spiking was strongest and observed most consistently in off cells. In intracellular recordings, the grating suppressed the subthreshold membrane potential in two ways: a reduced slope (gain) of the stimulus-response curve by approximately 20-30% and, in off cells, a tonic approximately 1-mV hyperpolarization. In voltage clamp, the grating increased an inhibitory conductance in all cells and simultaneously decreased an excitatory conductance in off cells. To determine whether center response inhibition was presynaptic or postsynaptic (shunting), we measured center response gain under voltage-clamp and current-clamp conditions. Under both conditions, the peripheral grating reduced center response gain similarly. This result suggests that reduced gain in the ganglion cell subthreshold center response reflects inhibition of presynaptic bipolar terminals. Thus amacrine cells suppressed ganglion cell center response gain primarily by inhibiting bipolar cell glutamate release.
In the presence of monoamines, L-type Ca(2+) channels on the dendrites of motoneurons contribute to persistent inward currents (PICs) that can amplify synaptic inputs two- to sixfold. However, the exact location of the L-type Ca(2+) channels is controversial, and the importance of the location as a means of regulating the input-output properties of motoneurons is unknown. In this study, we used a computational strategy developed previously to estimate the dendritic location of the L-type Ca(2+) channels and test the hypothesis that the location of L-type Ca(2+) channels varies as a function of motoneuron size. Compartmental models were constructed based on dendritic trees of five motoneurons that ranged in size from small to large. These models were constrained by known differences in PIC activation reported for low- and high-conductance motoneurons and the relationship between somatic PIC threshold and the presence or absence of tonic excitatory or inhibitory synaptic activity. Our simulations suggest that L-type Ca(2+) channels are concentrated in hotspots whose distance from the soma increases with the size of the dendritic tree. Moving the hotspots away from these sites (e.g., using the hotspot locations from large motoneurons on intermediate-sized motoneurons) fails to replicate the shifts in PIC threshold that occur experimentally during tonic excitatory or inhibitory synaptic activity. In models equipped with a size-dependent distribution of L-type Ca(2+) channels, the amplification of synaptic current by PICs depends on motoneuron size and the location of the synaptic input on the dendritic tree.
The existence of recurrent excitatory synapses between pyramidal cells in the hippocampal CA1 region has been known for some time yet little is known about activity-dependent forms of plasticity at these synapses. Here we demonstrate that under certain experimental conditions, Schaffer collateral/commissural fiber stimulation can elicit robust polysynaptic excitatory postsynaptic potentials due to recurrent synaptic inputs onto CA1 pyramidal cells. In contrast to CA3 pyramidal cell inputs, recurrent synapses onto CA1 pyramidal cells exhibited robust paired-pulse depression and a sustained, but rapidly reversible, depression in response to low-frequency trains of Schaffer collateral fiber stimulation. Blocking GABA(B) receptors abolished paired-pulse depression but had little effect on low-frequency stimulation (LFS)-induced depression. Instead, LFS-induced depression was significantly attenuated by an inhibitor of A1 type adenosine receptors. Blocking the postsynaptic effects of GABA(B) and A1 receptor activation on CA1 pyramidal cell excitability with an inhibitor of G-protein-activated inwardly rectifying potassium channels had no effect on either paired-pulse depression or LFS-induced depression. Thus activation of presynaptic GABA(B) and adenosine receptors appears to have an important role in activity-dependent depression at recurrent synapses. Together, our results indicate that CA3-CA1 and CA1-CA1 synapses exhibit strikingly different forms of short-term synaptic plasticity and suggest that activity-dependent changes in recurrent synaptic transmission can transform the CA1 region from a sparsely connected recurrent network into a predominantly feedforward circuit.
The purpose of this study was to determine the factors that influence the co-modulation of motor unit discharge rate in soleus muscles of both legs during upright standing. Single motor units were recorded from the left and right soleus muscles under three experimental conditions: standing quietly with the eyes open and closed, standing with the eyes closed while vibration was applied to one Achilles tendon, and swaying voluntarily or producing variable low-force isometric contractions at a frequency of 0.05 Hz. Correlations in motor unit discharge rate between left and right soleus motor units were assessed using common drive analysis. The results showed that common drive to motoneurons of the two muscles did not differ between standing with the eyes open or closed, but there was an order effect with the second task having significantly lower common drive than the first. Common drive was also significantly lower when vibration was applied to one leg compared with when no vibration was applied. Common drive was higher as subjects swayed anteriorly as compared with when they swayed posteriorly. There were no significant differences in common drive across phases of the variable isometric force contraction. Common drive was higher during voluntary sway than during variable force production; both of these values were significantly lower than those derived from the quiet standing task. These results suggest that proprioceptive and sub-cortical inputs contribute to the co-modulation of the firing rate of soleus motor unit pairs of the left and right leg during standing posture.
Numerous experimental data show that cortical networks of neurons are not silent in the absence of external inputs, but rather maintain a low spontaneous firing activity. This aspect of cortical networks is likely to be important for their computational function, but is hard to reproduce in models of cortical circuits of neurons because the low-activity regime is inherently unstable. Here we show-through theoretical analysis and extensive computer simulations-that short-term synaptic plasticity endows models of cortical circuits with a remarkable stability in the low-activity regime. This short-term plasticity works as a homeostatic mechanism that stabilizes the overall activity level in spite of drastic changes in external inputs and internal circuit properties, while preserving reliable transient responses to signals. The contribution of synaptic dynamics to this stability can be predicted on the basis of general principles from control theory.
The pedunculopontine tegmental (PPT) GABAergic system plays a crucial role in the regulation of rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. I recently reported that the activation of PPT GABA(B) receptors suppressed REM sleep by inhibiting REM-on cells. One of the important mechanisms for GABA(B) receptor activation-mediated physiological action is the inhibition of the intracellular cAMP-dependent protein kinase A (cAMP-PKA) signaling pathway. Accordingly, I hypothesized that the PPT GABA(B) receptor activation-mediated REM sleep suppression effect could be mediated through inhibition of cAMP-PKA activation. To test this hypothesis, a GABA(B) receptor selective agonist, baclofen hydrochloride (baclofen), cAMP-PKA activator, Sp-adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphothioate triethylamine (SpCAMPS), and vehicle control were microinjected into the PPT in selected combinations to determine effects on sleep-waking states of chronically instrumented, freely moving rats. Microinjection of SpCAMPS (1.5 nmol) induced REM sleep within a short latency (12.1 +/- 3.6 min) compared with vehicle control microinjection (60.0 +/- 6.5 min). On the contrary, microinjection of baclofen (1.5 nmol) suppressed REM sleep by delaying its appearance for approximately 183 min; however, the suppression of REM sleep by baclofen was prevented by a subsequent microinjection of SpCAMPS. These results provide evidence that the activation of cAMP-PKA within the PPT can successfully block the GABA(B) receptor activation-mediated REM sleep suppression effect. These findings suggest that the PPT GABA(B) receptor activation-mediated REM sleep regulating mechanism involves inactivation of cAMP-PKA signaling in the freely moving rat.
Neural circuits are composed of diverse cell types, the firing properties of which reflect their intrinsic ionic currents. GABAergic and non-GABAergic neurons in the medial vestibular nuclei, identified in GIN and YFP-16 lines of transgenic mice, respectively, exhibit different firing properties in brain slices. The intrinsic ionic currents of these cell types were investigated in acutely dissociated neurons from 3- to 4-wk-old mice, where differences in spontaneous firing and action potential parameters observed in slice preparations are preserved. Both GIN and YFP-16 neurons express a combination of four major outward currents: Ca(2+)-dependent K(+) currents (I(KCa)), 1 mM TEA-sensitive delayed rectifier K(+) currents (I(1TEA)), 10 mM TEA-sensitive delayed rectifier K(+) currents (I(10TEA)), and A-type K(+) currents (I(A)). The balance of these currents varied across cells, with GIN neurons tending to express proportionately more I(KCa) and I(A), and YFP-16 neurons tending to express proportionately more I(1TEA) and I(10TEA). Correlations in charge densities suggested that several currents were coregulated. Variations in the kinetics and density of I(1TEA) could account for differences in repolarization rates observed both within and between cell types. These data indicate that diversity in the firing properties of GABAergic and non-GABAergic vestibular nucleus neurons arises from graded differences in the balance and kinetics of ionic currents.
The spike discharge of hippocampal excitatory principal cells, also called &quot;place cells,&quot; is highly location specific, but the discharge of local inhibitory interneurons is thought to display relatively low spatial specificity. Whereas in other brain regions, such as sensory neocortex, the activity of interneurons is often exquisitely stimulus selective and directly determines the responses of neighboring excitatory neurons, the activity of hippocampal interneurons typically lacks the requisite specificity needed to shape the defined structure of principal cell fields. Here we show that hippocampal formation interneurons have &quot;on&quot; fields (abrupt increases in activity) and &quot;off&quot; fields (abrupt decreases in activity) that are associated with the same location-specific informational content, spatial resolution, and dependency on context as the &quot;place fields&quot; of CA1 principal cells. This establishes that interneurons have well-defined place fields, thus having important implications for understanding how the hippocampus represents spatial information.
As a hormone in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) mediates stress responses. CRF can also act as a neuromodulator of synaptic transmission outside the HPA axis. A major site of extrahypothalamic expression of CRF and its G-protein-coupled receptors is the amygdala, a key player in affect-related disorders such as anxiety. The laterocapsular division of the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeLC) is important for the modulation of pain affect. This study determined the effects of CRF1 and CRF2 receptor antagonists in CeLC neurons in an arthritis pain model. Extracellular single-unit recordings were made from CeLC neurons in anesthetized adult rats. All neurons responded more strongly to noxious than to innocuous mechanical stimulation (compression) of peripheral tissues, including the knee. Evoked responses and background activity were measured before and during the development of a kaolin/carrageenan-induced knee joint arthritis. Drugs were administered into the CeLC by microdialysis before and/or after arthritis induction. All CeLC neurons showed increased responses to mechanical stimuli (&quot;sensitization&quot;) 5-6 h postinduction of arthritis. A selective CRF1 receptor antagonist (NBI27914; 1-100 microM, concentration in microdialysis probe; 15 min) inhibited evoked responses and background activity in arthritis (n = 9) but had no effect under normal conditions before arthritis (n = 9). In contrast, a selective CRF2 receptor antagonist (Astressin-2B; 1-100 microM, 15 min) had no effect in arthritis (n = 7) but increased the neurons' responses under normal conditions (n = 8). These data suggest that CRF1 receptors in the amygdala contribute to pain-related sensitization, whereas the normally inhibitory function of CRF2 receptors is lost in the arthritis pain model.
Learning and memory are thought to involve activity-dependent changes in synaptic efficacy such as long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD). Recent studies have indicated that endocannabinoid-dependent modulation of inhibitory transmission facilitates induction of hippocampal LTP and that endocannabinoids play a key role in certain forms of LTD. Here, we show that repetitive low-frequency synaptic stimulation (LFS) produces persistent up-regulation of endocannabinoid signaling at hippocampal CA1 GABAergic synapses. This LFS also produces LTD of inhibitory synapses and facilitates LTP at excitatory, glutamatergic synapses. These endocannabinoid-mediated plastic changes could contribute to information storage within the brain.
We previously demonstrated that the tergotrochanteral muscle (TTM) of Drosophila is innervated by unique synapses that possess a small readily releasable/recycling vesicle population (active zone population), but not the larger reserve vesicle population observed at other neuromuscular junctions in this animal. Using light and electron microscopic techniques and intracellular recording from the G1 muscle fiber of the TTM, the release and recycling characteristics of the readily releasable/recycling population were observed without any possible contribution from a reserve population. Our results indicate 1) the total number of vesicles in synapses presynaptic to the G1 fiber correlates with the total number of quanta that can be released onto this fiber; 2) the number of quanta released by a single action potential onto the G1 fiber is about one half the number of morphologically &quot;docked&quot; vesicles in active zones onto the G1, and this ratio decreases in a partially depleted state; 3) the recycling rate at 1-Hz stimulation, a frequency that does not cause any depression, is 0.24 recycled vesicle/active zone/s; and 4) normal-appearing spontaneous release occurs from the active zone vesicle population and, unlike synapses that possess a reserve population, the frequency of this release is reduced after high-frequency evoked activity.
Vestibular input is required for accurate locomotion in the dark, yet blind subjects' vestibular function is unexplored. Such investigation may also identify visually dependent aspects of vestibular function. We assessed vestibular function perceptually in six congenitally blind (and 12 sighted) subjects. Cupula deflection by a transient angular, horizontal acceleration generates a related vestibular nerve signal that declines exponentially with time constant approximately 4-7 s, which is prolonged to 15 s in the evoked vestibular-ocular reflex by the brain stem &quot;velocity storage.&quot; We measured perceptual velocity storage in blind subjects following velocity steps (overall perceptual vestibular time constant, experiment 1) and found it to be significantly shorter (5.34 s; range: 2.39-8.58 s) than in control, sighted subjects (15.8 s; P &lt; 0.001). Vestibular navigation was assessed by subjects steering a motorized Brny-chair in response to imposed angular displacements in a path-reversal task, &quot;go-back-to-start&quot; (GBS: experiment 2); and a path-completion task, &quot;complete-the-circle&quot; (CTC: experiment 3). GBS performances (comparing response vs. stimulus displacement regression slopes and r(2)) were equal between groups (P &gt; 0.05), but the blind showed worse CTC performance (P &lt; 0.05). Two blind individuals showed ultrashort perceptual time constants, high lifetime physical activity scores and superior CTC performances; we speculate that these factors may be inter-related. In summary, the vestibular velocity storage as measured perceptually is visually dependent. Early blindness does not affect path reversal performance but is associated with worse path completion, a task requiring an absolute spatial strategy. Although congenitally blind subjects are overall less able to utilize spatial mechanisms during vestibular navigation, prior extensive physical spatial activity may enhance vestibular navigation.
The relationship between neural activity in motor cortex and movement is highly debated. Although many studies have examined the spatial tuning (e.g., for direction) of cortical responses, less attention has been paid to the temporal properties of individual neuron responses. We developed a novel task, employing two instructed speeds, that allows meaningful averaging of neural responses across reaches with nearly identical velocity profiles. Doing so preserves fine temporal structure and reveals considerable complexity and heterogeneity of response patterns in primary motor and premotor cortex. Tuning for direction was prominent, but the preferred direction was frequently inconstant with respect to time, instructed-speed, and/or reach distance. Response patterns were often temporally complex and multiphasic, and varied with direction and instructed speed in idiosyncratic ways. A wide variety of patterns was observed, and it was not uncommon for a neuron to exhibit a pattern shared by no other neuron in our dataset. Response patterns of individual neurons rarely, if ever, matched those of individual muscles. Indeed, the set of recorded responses spanned a much higher dimensional space than would be expected for a model in which neural responses relate to a moderate number of factors-dynamic, kinematic, or otherwise. Complex responses may provide a basis-set representing many parameters. Alternately, it may be necessary to discard the notion that responses exist to &quot;represent&quot; movement parameters. It has been argued that complex and heterogeneous responses are expected of a recurrent network that produces temporally patterned outputs, and the present results would seem to support this view.
Neuroscience patients with fever may have worse outcomes than those who are afebrile. However, neuroscience nurses who encounter this common problem face a translational gap between patient-outcomes research and bedside practice because there is no current evidence-based standard of care for fever management of the neurologically vulnerable patient. The aim of this study was to determine if there are trends in national practices for fever and hyperthermia management of the neurologically vulnerable patient. A 15-item mailed questionnaire was used to determine national and regional trends in fever and hyperthermia management and decision making by neuroscience nurses. Members of the American Association of Neuroscience Nurses were surveyed (N = 1,225) and returned 328 usable surveys. Fewer than 20% of respondents reported having an explicit fever management protocol in place for neurologic patients, and 12.5% reported having a nonspecific patient protocol available for fever management. Several clear and consistent patterns in interventions for fever and hyperthermia management were seen nationally, including acetaminophen administration at a dose of 650 mg every 4 hours, ice packs, water cooling blankets, and tepid bathing. However, regional differences were seen in intervention choices and initial temperature to treat.
The purpose of this qualitative descriptive study was to describe neuroscience intensive care unit (NICU) nurses' perceptions regarding their roles and responsibilities in the decision-making process during the change in intensity of care and end-of-life care for patients. Twelve NICU nurses agreed to a private moderately structured interview. Three major themes summarize the data: (1) providing guidance, (2) being positioned in the middle of the communication process, and (3) feeling the emotions of patients and families. The nurse caring for a patient at the end of life provides guidance from the middle or &quot;hub&quot; of the communication process between family members and physicians. The nurses in this study describe an array of feelings associated with this role. This research adds to the limited body of knowledge concerning critical care nurses' experiences with end-of-life care. Providing guidance and being in the middle of the communication process can be a lonely, challenging, yet rewarding position. Results of this study provide a basis for offering emotional support to NICU nurses who care for patients at the end of life.
Patients who experience a nonaneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage differ from patients who suffer an aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage in initial presentation (including neurological examination and computed tomography [CT] scans), clinical course, and outcome. A perimesencephalic distribution of nonaneurysmal subarachnoid blood on CT imaging has been described as a distinct clinical entity with a benign course and an excellent prognosis; research suggests that the majority of these patients have excellent outcomes. In most cases, these patients return to their previous level of functioning. Surviving a subarachnoid hemorrhage can be emotionally devastating to patients and their families and can threaten employment and health insurance eligibility. Using evidence-based practice, neuroscience nurses can reassure and educate patients, staff members, and the public and facilitate their understanding of the clinical course and outcome.
In the adult human brain, the presence of neural stem cells has been documented in the subgranular layer of the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus and in the subventricular zone of the lateral ventricles. Neurogenesis has also been reported in rodent models of ischemic stroke, traumatic brain injury, epileptic seizures, and intracerebral or subarachnoid hemorrhage. However, only sparse information is available about the occurrence of neurogenesis in the human brain under similar pathological conditions. In the present report, we describe neural progenitor cell proliferation in the brain of patients suffering from subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) resulting from ruptured aneurysm. Ten cerebral samples from both SAH and control patients obtained, respectively, during aneurysm clipping and deep brain tumor removal were analyzed by reverse transcription followed by polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and/or immunohistochemistry (IHC). In tissue specimens from SAH patients, RT-PCR and IHC revealed the expression of a variety of markers consistent with CNS progenitor cells, including nestin, vimentin, SOX-2, and Musashi1 and -2. In the same specimens, double immunohistochemistry followed by confocal analysis revealed that Musashi2 consistently colocalized with the proliferation marker Ki67. By contrast, no such gene or protein expression profiles were detected in any of the control specimens. Thus, activation of neural progenitor cell proliferation may occur in adult human brain following subarachnoid hemorrhage, possibly contributing to the promotion of spontaneous recovery, in this pathological condition.
The neurotrophin receptor p75 (p75NTR) is expressed by both neurons and glia. Nerve injury triggers up-regulation of p75NTR in Schwann cells (SC) but not in central glia. In contrast to neuronal p75NTR, which mediates negative signals from myelin-associated proteins resulting in neurite collapse, glial p75NTR may play a positive role in nerve regeneration by forming neurotrophin chemoattractant gradients or by competitively antagonizing the NOGO/NgR/LINGO-1 signal through cell-cell contact or regulated intramembranous proteolysis (RIP) of p75NTR. This piece presents some recent evidence supporting this hypothesis.
Electrocortical stimulation mapping (ESM) is the clinical standard for localizing critical sensorimotor and language functions, but other functions can be assessed with this technique as well. The authors describe an 8-year-old girl with a left frontal desmoplastic gangliocytoma and medically intractable epilepsy who underwent a chronic invasive recording using electrode grids. Prior to electrode implantation, functional magnetic resonance (fMR) imaging was performed using a research protocol that included a working memory task. The ESM procedure interfered with working memory at a dorsolateral prefrontal site as predicted by fMR imaging, but because this site was part of the epileptogenic region, it was included in the resection. Since the operation the patient has been seizure free and her overall cognitive performance has improved. Yet she shows a selective impairment in working memory tasks that has persisted for over two years, indicating that the area identified using fMR imaging and ESM was critically involved in working memory. Her performance did improve, however, suggesting that compensatory mechanisms took place. This case reveals an important and perhaps critical function of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. Work continues to assess the specific cognitive functions subserved by the region identified with fMR imaging and ESM.


Subependymoma was first described by Scheinker in 1945; it frequently occurs in the ventricles and rarely in the spinal canal representing 0.7% of all central nervous system tumours. Most of these intraventricular tumours are subclinical entities, remaining of small size and discovered at autopsy with 0.4%incidence. We report a case of subependymoma with a completely exophytic growth from the foramen of Luscka: only a similar one has been described in the literature but with a lesser cysternal involvement. Neuroradiological and anatomopathological features of subependymoma are discussed.
Whiplash injury, commonly encountered in road traffic accidents, is a major cause of morbidity. Its pathophysiology is not well understood, and diagnosis remains clinical. Imaging and electrophysiological methods have not provided objective diagnostic evidence. Availability of a sensitive and specific diagnostic method would be of high clinical interest. We studied 20 consecutive patients with chronic whiplash injury. Despite persistent symptoms, most had minimal neurological findings. Cutaneous silent period (CSP), a nociceptive spinal inhibitory electromyographic reflex, showed 90% sensitivity and 90% specificity for its diagnosis. In contrast, only two patients (10%) had abnormal transcranial magnetic stimulation findings, and another two (10%) showed abnormal electromyography. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed cervical cord abnormalities in only two of 20 (10%) patients. None of the patients had abnormal somatosensory evoked potential studies. Our findings suggest that neurological dysfunction of whiplash may occur at several possible spinal cord localities in the CSP functional pathway. The use of this simple, quick, and sensitive method is advocated in the diagnostic work up of whiplash injury.
Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) central nervous system (CNS) infection in children is associated with impaired brain growth and neurodevelopmental delays. Neural progenitors are critical for neurogenesis. Human multipotential neural progenitors grown in culture are permissive for HIV-1 infection, but it is not known if infection of these cells occurs in vivo. Brain tissue from pre-highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) era pediatric acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) patients was examined for evidence of HIV-1 infection of nestin-positive neural progenitors by in situ hybridization; or after laser microdissection harvest, DNA extraction, and polymerase chain reaction (PCR). HIV-1 or viral DNA was identified in nestin-positive cells in four of seven HIV-1-infected children, suggesting in vivo infection of neural progenitors.
In this study, we evaluated the long-term maintenance of regenerated axons in an experimental nerve amputee model. The sciatic nerve of adult rats was transected and repaired with a silicone tube leaving a short gap; the distal nerve segment was again transected 10 mm distally and the distal stump either introduced in a capped silicone chamber (amputee group) or connected to denervated targets (tibial branch into the gastrocnemius muscle and peroneal nerve apposed to skin) (reinnervation group). Morphological studies were performed at 2.5, 6, and 9 months after surgery. In all cases, axons regenerated across the silicone tube and grew in the distal nerve segment. In the amputee group, the morphological results show the expected features of a neuroma that is formed when regenerating axons are prevented from reaching the end organs, with a large number of axonal profiles indicative of regenerative sprouting. The number of myelinated axons counted at the distal nerve was sustained over 9 months follow-up, indicating that regenerated axons are maintained chronically. Immunohistochemical labeling showed maintained expression of choline acetyltransferase, calcitonin gene-related peptide, and growth-related peptides 43 in the distal neuroma at 6 and 9 months. Reconnection of the distal nerve to foreign targets mildly improved the pattern of nerve regeneration, decreasing the number of excessive sprouts. These results indicate that axons regenerated may be eventually interfaced with external input-output systems over long time, even if ending in the absence of distal targets as will occur in amputee limbs.
We evaluated the efficacy and safety of rituximab in an open-label, uncontrolled study of 13 patients with polyneuropathy associated with antibodies to myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG) and correlated the response to therapy with clinical and laboratory features. One year after rituximab therapy, anti-MAG immunoglobulin M (IgM) titers were significantly reduced. At that time, eight patients (62%) had improved in both the inflammatory neuropathy cause and treatment (INCAT) sensory sumscore and the Medical Research Council sumscore for muscle strength and seven of them also in the INCAT disability score. The improvement in the mean INCAT sensory sumscore was significant at 12 months and correlated with lower anti-MAG antibody at entry and at follow-up. This study suggests that rituximab may be efficacious in patients with anti-MAG associated neuropathy and particularly on sensory impairment and in those with moderately elevated antibody titers. These findings suggest that antibody reduction below a critical level may be necessary to achieve clinical improvement.
In this psychometric study, we compared the recently developed Validity Scales from the Revised NEO Personality Inventory (NEO PI-R; Costa &amp; McCrae, 1992b) with the MMPI-2 (Butcher, Dahstrom, Graham, Tellegen, &amp; Kaemmer, 1989) Validity Scales. We collected data from clients (n = 74) who completed comprehensive psychological evaluations at a university-based outpatient mental health clinic. Correlations between the Validity Scales of the NEO-PI-R and MMPI-2 were significant and in the expected directions. The relationships provide support for convergent and discriminant validity of the NEO-PI-R Validity Scales. The percent agreement of invalid responding on the two measures was high, although the diagnostic agreement was modest (kappa = .22-.33). Finally, clients who responded in an invalid manner on the NEO-PI-R Validity Scales produced significantly different clinical profiles on the NEO-PI-R and MMPI-2 than clients with valid protocols. These results provide additional support for the clinical utility of the NEO-PI-R Validity Scales as indicators of response bias.
The present study examined whether personality-based subgroups of bulimic individuals differed in eating disorder behavior, comorbid psychopathology, treatment history, and momentary assessments of mood and behavior. Participants completed an Ecological Momentary Assessment (EMA) protocol for a period of 2 weeks. Latent profile analysis on the Dimensional Assessment of Personality Pathology revealed 3 groupings of bulimic participants: Interpersonal-emotional, Stimulus seeking-hostile, and Low personality pathology. The personality-based groups differed in histories of mood, anxiety, substance use disorders, features of borderline personality disorder, treatment history, and several momentary measures. These findings suggest that personality variation within the bulimia nervosa diagnostic construct may be associated with meaningful conceptual and clinical differences, including daily experiences in the natural environment.
We have previously shown that the endocannabinoid anandamide and its metabolically stable analog (R)-methanandamide produce vasorelaxation in rabbit aortic ring preparations in an endothelium-dependent manner that could not be mimicked by other CB(1) cannabinoid receptor agonists (Am J Physiol 282: H2046-H2054, 2002). Here, we show that (R)-methanandamide and abnormal cannabidiol stimulated nitric oxide (NO) production in rabbit aortic endothelial cells (RAEC) in a dose-dependent manner but that other CB(1) and CB(2) receptor agonists, such as cis-3R-[2-hydroxy-4-(1,1-dimethylheptyl)phenyl]-trans-4R-3(3-hydroxypropyl)-1R-cyclohexanol (CP55940) and (R)-(+)-[2,3-dihydro-5-methyl-3-(4-morpholinylmethyl) pyrrolo-[1,2,3-d,e]-1,4-benzoxazin-6-yl]-1-naphthalenyl-methanone (WIN55212-2), failed to do so. CB(1) antagonists rimonabant [also known as SR141716; N-piperidin-1-yl)-5-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-4-methyl-1H-pyrazole-3-carboxamide] and 6-methoxy-2-(4-methoxyphenyl)benzo[b]-thien-3-yl][4-cyanophenyl]methanone (LY320135) and CB(2) antagonist N-[(1S)-endo-1,3,3,-trimethylbicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl]-5-(4-chloro-3-methylphenyl)-1-(4-methylbenzyl)-pyrazole-3-carboxamide (SR144528) failed to block (R)-methanandamide-mediated NO production in RAEC. However, anandamide receptor antagonist (-)-4-(3-3,4-trans-p-menthadien-(1,8)-yl)-orcinol (O-1918) blocked (R)-methanandamide-mediated NO production in RAEC. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction and Western blot analyses failed to detect the CB(1) receptor in RAEC, making this a good model to study non-CB(1) responses to anandamide. (R)-Methanandamide produced endothelial nitric-oxide synthase (eNOS) phosphorylation via the activation of phosphoinositide 3-kinase-Akt signaling. Inhibition of G(i) signaling with pertussis toxin, or phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase activity with 2-(4-morpholinyl)-8-phenyl-4H-1-benzopyran-4-one (LY294002), resulted in a decrease in (R)-methanandamide-induced Akt phosphorylation and NO production. Results from this study suggest that in RAEC, (R)-methanandamide acts on a novel non-CB(1) and non-CB(2) anandamide receptor and signals through G(i) and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase, leading to Akt activation, eNOS phosphorylation, and NO production.
5-Hydroxytryptamine (5-HT; serotonin) plays an important role in the descending control of nociception. 5-HT and its receptors have been extensively studied in the modulation of nociceptive transmission at the spinal level using behavioral tests that may be affected by the effects of 5-HT on motor performance and skin temperature. Using electrophysiological methods, the present study aimed to systematically investigate the roles of 5-HT receptor subtypes on the inhibitory effects of 5-HT on responses of the spinal wide dynamic range (WDR) neurons to C-fiber inputs in rats. Under basal conditions, topical application of 5-HT to the spinal cord inhibited the C-fiber responses of WDR neurons dose-dependently, whereas antagonists of 5-HT(1A) [WAY 100635 [N-[2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl]-N-2-pyridinyl-cyclohexanecarboxamide maleate salt]], 5-HT(1B) [GR 55562 [3-[3-(dimethylamino)propyl]-4-hydroxy-N-[4-(4-pyrid-dinyl)phenyl]benzamide dihydrochloride]], 5-HT(2A) [ketanserin [3-[2-[4-(fluorobenzoyl)-1-piperidinyl]ethyl]-2,4[1H,3H]-quinazolinedione tartrate]], 5-HT(2C) [RS 102221 [8-[5-(2,4-dimethoxy-5-(4-trifluoromethylphenylsulfonamido)phenyl-5-oxopentyl]-1,3,8-triazaspiro[4.5]decane-2,4-dione hydrochloride]], 5-HT(3) [MDL 72222 [3-tropanyl-3,5-dichlorobenzoate]], and 5-HT(4) [GR 113808 ([1-[2-[(methylsulfonyl)-amino]ethyl]-4-piperidinyl]methyl 1-methyl-1H-indole-3-carboxylate)] had no effect on their own. The inhibitory effects of 5-HT were reversed by antagonists of 5-HT(1B) (GR 55562), 5-HT(2A) (ketanserin), 5-HT(2C) (RS 102221), 5-HT(3) (MDL 72222), and 5-HT(4) (GR 113808) but not by 5-HT(1A) (WAY 100635) receptor antagonists. Topical administration of agonists of 5-HT(1A) [(2R)-(+)-8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin hydrobromide], 5-HT(1B) [CGS 12066 [7-trifluoromethyl-4-(4-methyl-1-piperazinyl)pyrrolo-[1,2-a]quinoxaline maleate salt]], 5-HT(2A) (alpha-methyl-5-hydroxytryptamine maleate), 5-HT(2C) [MK 212 [6-chloro-2-(1-piperazinyl)pyrazine hydrochloride]], 5-HT(3) [1-(3-chlorophenyl)biguanide hydrochloride], and 5-HT(4) [2-[1-(4-piperonyl)piperazinyl]benzothiazole] also inhibited the C-responses. These results suggest that, under basal conditions, there is no tonic serotonergic inhibition on the C-responses of dorsal horn neurons, and multiple 5-HT receptor subtypes including 1B, 2A, 2C, 3, and 4 may be involved in mediating the inhibitory effects of 5-HT.
Adenosine receptors (ARs) are G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) mediating the neuromodulatory actions of adenosine that influence emotional, cognitive, motor, and other functions in the central nervous system (CNS). Previous studies show complex formation between ARs and metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) in heterologous systems and close colocalization of ARs and mGluRs in several central neurons. Here we explored the possibility of intimate functional interplay between G(i/o) protein-coupled A(1)-subtype AR (A1R) and type-1 mGluR (mGluR1) naturally occurring in cerebellar Purkinje cells. Using a perforated-patch voltage-clamp technique, we found that both synthetic and endogenous agonists for A1R induced continuous depression of a mGluR1-coupled inward current. A1R agonists also depressed mGluR1-coupled intracellular Ca(2+) mobilization monitored by fluorometry. A1R indeed mediated this depression because genetic depletion of A1R abolished it. Surprisingly, A1R agonist-induced depression persisted after blockade of G(i/o) protein. The depression appeared to involve neither the cAMP-protein kinase A cascade downstream of the alpha subunits of G(i/o) and G(s) proteins, nor cytoplasmic Ca(2+) that is suggested to be regulated by the beta-gamma subunit complex of G(i/o) protein. Moreover, A1R did not appear to affect G(q) protein which mediates the mGluR1-coupled responses. These findings suggest that A1R modulates mGluR1 signalling without the aid of the major G proteins. In this respect, the A1R-mediated depression of mGluR1 signalling shown here is clearly distinguished from the A1R-mediated neuronal responses described so far. These findings demonstrate a novel neuromodulatory action of adenosine in central neurons.
During the response of vertebrate olfactory receptor cells to stimulation, Ca(2+) enters the cilia via cyclic nucleotide-gated channels and is extruded by Na(+)-Ca(2+) exchange. The rise in Ca(2+) concentration opens a Ca(2+)-activated Cl(-) conductance which carries most of the inward receptor current. The dependence of Ca(2+) extrusion upon external Na(+) concentration was studied by using the falling phase of the Ca(2+)-activated Cl(-) current following a brief exposure to the phosphodiesterase inhibitor IBMX to monitor indirectly the decay in intraciliary Ca(2+) concentration. External Na(+) concentration was reduced by partial substitution with guanidinium, an ion which permeates the cyclic nucleotide-gated channel but does not support Na(+)-Ca(2+) exchange. The time constant describing the decay in current following IBMX stimulation was surprisingly little affected by substitution of external Na(+), being substantially retarded only when its concentration was reduced to a third or less of its normal value in Ringer solution. When the cilia were returned to Ringer solution after a period in reduced-Na(+) solution, the time constant for the final decay of current was similar to that seen when returning immediately to IBMX-free Ringer solution. This observation suggests that Ca(2+) extrusion via Na(+)-Ca(2+) exchange dominates the falling phase of the response to IBMX, which can therefore be used to assess exchanger activity. Rate constants derived from the time constants for current decay at different external Na(+) concentrations could be fitted by the Hill equation with a K(d) of 54 +/- 4 mm and Hill coefficient of 3.7 +/- 0.4. The cooperativity of the dependence upon external Na(+) concentration indicates that at least three Na(+) ions enter for each exchanger cycle, while the high affinity for external Na(+) contrasts with the photoreceptor and cardiac exchangers. The functional importance of this observation is that the relative insensitivity of the Na(+)-Ca(2+) exchanger to external Na(+) concentration allows normal response termination even following partial dilution or concentration of the olfactory mucus.
The size of the readily releasable pool (RRP) of vesicles was measured in control conditions and during post-tetanic potentiation (PTP) in a large glutamatergic terminal called the calyx of Held. We measured excitatory postsynaptic currents evoked by a high frequency train of action potentials in slices of 4-11-day-old rats. After a tetanus the cumulative release during such a train was enlarged by approximately 50%, indicating that the size of the RRP was increased. The amount of enhancement depended on the duration and frequency of the tetanus and on the age of the rat. After the tetanus, the size of the RRP decayed more slowly (t(1/2)=10 versus 3 min) back to control values than the release probability. This difference was mainly due to a very fast initial decay of the release probability, which had a time constant compatible with an augmentation phase (tau approximately 30 s). The overall decay of PTP at physiological temperature was not different from room temperature, but the increase in release probability (P(r)) was restricted to the first minute after the tetanus. Thereafter PTP was dominated by an increase in the size of the RRP. We conclude that due to the short lifetime of the increase in release probability, the contribution of the increase in RRP size during post-tetanic potentiation is more significant at physiological temperature.
Adenosine is an important signalling molecule involved in a large number of physiological functions. In the brain these processes are as diverse as sleep, memory, locomotion and neuroprotection during episodes of ischaemia and hypoxia. Although the actions of adenosine, through cell surface G-protein-coupled receptors, are well characterized, in many cases the sources of adenosine and mechanisms of release have not been defined. Here we demonstrate the activity-dependent release of adenosine in the cerebellum using a combination of electrophysiology and biosensors. Short trains of electrical stimuli delivered to the molecular layer in vitro, release adenosine via a process that is both TTX and Ca(2+) sensitive. As ATP release cannot be detected, adenosine must either be released directly or rapidly produced by highly localized and efficient extracellular ATP breakdown. Since adenosine release can be modulated by receptors that act on parallel fibre-Purkinje cell synapses, we suggest that the parallel fibres release adenosine. This activity-dependent adenosine release exerts feedback inhibition of parallel fibre-Purkinje cell transmission. Spike-mediated adenosine release from parallel fibres will thus powerfully regulate cerebellar circuit output.
Homeostatic regulation, i.e. the ability of neurons and neuronal networks to adjust their output in response to chronic alterations in electrical activity is a prerequisite for the pronounced functional plasticity in the developing brain. Cellular mechanisms of homeostatic plasticity have mainly been studied in cultured preparations. To understand the developmental time frame and properties of homeostatic plasticity under more physiological conditions, we have here compared the effects of activity deprivation on synaptic transmission in acutely isolated and cultured hippocampal slices at different stages of development. We find that transmission at both glutamatergic and GABAergic synapses is strongly and rapidly (15 h) regulated in the opposite directions in response to inactivity during narrow, separated time windows early in development. Following this critical period of synaptic development, induction of the homeostatic response requires longer periods (40 h) of inactivity. At glutamatergic synapses, activity blockade led to an increase in the amplitude and frequency of mEPSCs, and the threshold for induction of this response was increased during development. In contrast, homeostatic regulation at GABAergic synapses was expressed in a qualitatively distinct manner at different developmental stages. Immature neurons responded rapidly to inactivity by regulating mIPSC frequency, while longer activity blockade led to a decrease in the mIPSC amplitude independent of the neuronal maturation. The susceptibility of immature networks to homeostatic regulation may serve as a safety mechanism against rapid runaway destability during the time of intense remodelling of the synaptic circuitry.
In the adult hippocampus, two different forms of GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibition have been identified: phasic and tonic. The first is due to the activation of GABA(A) receptors facing the presynaptic releasing sites, whereas the second is due to the activation of receptors localized away from the synapses. Because of their high affinity and low desensitization rate, extrasynaptic receptors are persistently able to sense low concentrations of GABA. Here we show that, early in postnatal life, between postnatal day (P) 2 and P6, CA1 and CA3 pyramidal cells but not stratum radiatum interneurons, express a tonic GABA(A)-mediated conductance. Block of the neuronal GABA transporter GAT-1 slightly enhanced the persistent GABA conductance in principal cells but not in GABAergic interneurons. However, in adulthood, a tonic GABA(A)-mediated conductance could be revealed in stratum radiatum interneurons, indicating that the ability of these cells to sense ambient GABA levels is developmentally regulated. Pharmacological analysis of the tonic conductance in principal cells demonstrated the involvement of beta2/beta 3, alpha 5 and gamma 2 GABA(A) receptor subunits. Removal of the tonic depolarizing action of GABA with picrotoxin, reduced the excitability and the glutamatergic drive of principal cells but did not modify the excitability of stratum radiatum interneurons. The increased cell excitability and synaptic activity following the activation of extrasynaptic GABA(A) receptors by ambient GABA would facilitate the induction of giant depolarizing potentials.
Non-selective benzodiazepines, such as diazepam, interact with equivalent affinity and agonist efficacy at GABA(A) receptors containing either an alpha1, alpha2, alpha3 or alpha5 subunit. However, which of these particular subtypes are responsible for the anticonvulsant effects of diazepam remains uncertain. In the present study, we examined the ability of diazepam to reduce pentylenetetrazoLe (PTZ)-induced and maximal electroshock (MES)-induced seizures in mice containing point mutations in single (alpha1H101R, alpha2H101R or alpha5H105R) or multiple (alpha125H--&gt;R) alpha subunits that render the resulting GABA(A) receptors diazepam-insensitive. Furthermore, the anticonvulsant properties of diazepam, the alpha1- and alpha3-selective compounds zolpidem and TP003, respectively, and the alpha2/alpha3 preferring compound TP13 were studied against PTZ-induced seizures. In the transgenic mice, no single subtype was responsible for the anticonvulsant effects of diazepam in either the PTZ or MES assay and neither the alpha3 nor alpha5 subtypes appeared to confer anticonvulsant activity. Moreover, whereas the alpha1 and alpha2 subtypes played a modest role with respect to the PTZ assay, they had a negligible role in the MES assay. With respect to subtype-selective compounds, zolpidem and TP003 had much reduced anticonvulsant efficacy relative to diazepam in both the PTZ and MES assays whereas TP13 had high anticonvulsant efficacy in the PTZ but not the MES assay. Taken together, these data not only indicate a role for alpha2-containing GABA(A) receptors in mediating PTZ and MES anticonvulsant activity but also suggest that efficacy at more than one subtype is required and that these subtypes act synergistically.


Among clients who have been screened already for drug-related problems, the Drug Use Disorders Identification Test--Extended (DUDIT-E) maps the frequency of illicit drug use (D), the positive (P) and negative (N) aspects of drug use, and treatment readiness (T). D scores correlated with Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition diagnoses among 154 heavy drug users from criminal justice and drug detoxification settings, as well as with urine test results in drug detoxification units. One-week test/retest intraclass correlation coefficients among 92 male prison inmates were .90, .78, .75, and .84 for D, P, N, and T scores, respectively. Cronbach's alpha were .88-.95 for P score, .88-.93 for N score, and .72-.81 for T score. Principal components analysis supported construct validity for P, N, and T scores. T scores were higher in prison treatment units than in motivational and regular units without treatment emphasis. Motivational index scores differentiated between three categories of heavy drug users; they did not differentiate between prisons and unit types, but this corresponded to unclear structural differentiation between units.
Bilateral medial cerebellar infarction occurring simultaneously is rare. We describe a middle aged male with bilateral cerebellar infarction complicated by subsequent left superior cerebellar artery infarction. Lupus anticoagulant was positive. Though the prognosis is usually considered good, our patient made poor recovery.
Minocycline is a tetracycline derivative with antiapoptotic and anti-inflammatory properties, and the drug has been shown to have beneficial effects in a variety of models of neurological disorders. The potentially neuroprotective role of minocycline was assessed in experimental in vitro and in vivo models of rabies virus infection. In this study, 5 nM minocycline did not improve the viability of embryonic mouse cortical and hippocampal neurons infected in vitro with the attenuated SAD-D29 strain of rabies virus, based on assessments using trypan blue exclusion. Two-day-old ICR mice were inoculated in the right hind limb thigh muscle with SAD-D29, and they received daily subcutaneous injections of either 50 mg/kg minocycline or vehicle (phosphate-buffered saline). Infected minocycline-treated mice experienced an earlier onset of neurologic signs and greater mortality (83% versus 50%) than those receiving vehicle (log rank test, P=0.002 and P=0.003, respectively). Immunohistochemical analysis of rabies virus antigen distribution was performed at early time points and in moribund mice. There were greater numbers of infected neurons in the regional brain areas of minocycline-treated mice than in vehicle-treated mice, which was significant in the CA1 region of the hippocampus. There was less apoptosis (P=0.01) and caspase 3 immunostaining (P=0.0008) in the midbrains of mice treated with minocycline than in mice treated with vehicle, consistent with a neuroprotective role of neuronal apoptosis that may have had a mild effect of inhibiting viral spread. Reduced infiltration of CD3+ T cells was observed in the pons/medulla of moribund mice that received minocycline therapy (P=0.008), suggesting that the anti-inflammatory actions of minocycline may intensify the neurologic disease. These findings indicate that minocycline has important detrimental effects in the therapy of experimental rabies. Empirical therapy with minocycline should therefore be approached with caution in cases of human rabies and possibly other viral encephalitides until more experimental data become available.
The multiplication of the human neurotropic polyomavirus JC virus (JCV) is regulated by cell membrane receptors and nuclear transcription factors. Signaling pathways also play a role in determining the extent to which JCV can productively infect cells. These data show that constitutively active MEK1 protein (CA-MEK1), overexpressed in cultures of human glia, supports a substantial increase in late JCV protein (Vp-1) synthesis. The specificity of this pathway was indicated by no significant enhancement of JCV multiplication through activation of other components of mitogen-activated protein kinase pathways such as p38, Jun N-terminal protein kinase, and protein kinase A. Further evidence supporting the importance of signaling in JCV infection came from addition of transforming growth factor beta1 (TGF-beta1), which stimulated a 200% increase of Vp-1 expression. Specific MEK1/2 inhibitors, flavenoid PD98059 and U0126, decreased the basal and TGF-beta1-stimulated Vp-1 expression by 95% or more. TGF-beta1 is known to phosphorylate/activate Smad DNA binding proteins that could subsequently bind or increase binding to JCV promoter sequences, linking the effects of signaling with JCV transcriptional regulation. The effectiveness with which MEK1/2 inhibitors block JCV multiplication provides insight that may contribute to development of compounds directed against JCV.
The stable signal peptide (SSP) of the lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus surface glycoprotein precursor has several unique characteristics. The SSP is unusually long, at 58 amino acids, and contains two hydrophobic domains, and its sequence is highly conserved among both Old and New World arenaviruses. To better understand the functions of the SSP, a panel of point and deletion mutants was created by in vitro mutagenesis to target the highly conserved elements within the SSP. We were also able to confirm critical residues required for separate SSP functions by trans-complementation. Using these approaches, it was possible to resolve functional domains of the SSP. In characterizing our SSP mutants, we discovered that the SSP is involved in several distinct functions within the viral life cycle, beyond translocation of the viral surface glycoprotein precursor into the endoplasmic reticulum lumen. The SSP is required for efficient glycoprotein expression, posttranslational maturation cleavage of GP1 and GP2 by SKI-1/S1P protease, glycoprotein transport to the cell surface plasma membrane, formation of infectious virus particles, and acid pH-dependent glycoprotein-mediated cell fusion.
Borna disease virus (BDV) is an enveloped virus with a nonsegmented negative-strand RNA genome whose organization is characteristic of mononegavirales. However, based on its unique genetics and biological features, BDV is considered to be the prototypic member of a new virus family, Bornaviridae, within the order Mononegavirales. BDV cell entry occurs via receptor-mediated endocytosis, a process initiated by the recognition of an as yet unidentified receptor at the cell surface by the BDV surface glycoprotein (G). The paucity of cell-free virus associated with BDV infection has hindered studies aimed at the elucidation of cellular receptors and detailed mechanisms involved in BDV cell entry. To overcome this problem, we generated and characterized a replication-competent recombinant vesicular stomatitis virus expressing BDV G (rVSVDeltaG*/BDVG). Cells infected with rVSVDeltaG*/BDVG produced high titers (10(7) PFU/ml) of cell-free virus progeny, but this virus exhibited a highly attenuated phenotype both in cell culture and in vivo. Attenuation of rVSVDeltaG*/BDVG was associated with a delayed kinetics of viral RNA replication and altered genome/N mRNA ratios compared to results for rVSVDeltaG*/VSVG. Likewise, incorporation of BDV G into virions appeared to be restricted despite its high levels of expression and efficient processing in rVSVDeltaG*/BDVG-infected cells. Notably, rVSVDeltaG*/BDVG recreated the cell tropism and entry pathway of bona fide BDV. Our results indicate that rVSVDeltaG*/BDVG represents a unique tool for the investigation of BDV G-mediated cell entry, as well as the roles of BDV G in host immune responses and pathogenesis associated with BDV infection.
Borna disease virus (BDV) is an enveloped virus with a nonsegmented negative-strand RNA genome whose organization is characteristic of Mononegavirales. BDV cell entry follows a receptor-mediated endocytosis pathway, which is initiated by the recognition of an as-yet-unidentified receptor at the cell surface by the virus glycoprotein G. BDV G is synthesized as a precursor (GPC) that is cleaved by the cellular protease furin to produce the mature glycoproteins GP1 and GP2, which have been implicated in receptor recognition and pH-dependent fusion events, respectively. BDV is highly neurotropic and its spread in cultured cells proceeds in the absence of detectable extracellular virus or syncytium formation. BDV spread has been proposed to be strictly dependent on the expression and correct processing of BDV G. Here we present evidence that cell-to-cell spread of BDV required neither the expression of cellular receptors involved in virus primary infection, nor the furin-mediated processing of BDV G. We also show that in furin-deficient cells, the release of BDV particles induced by the treatment of BDV-infected cells with hypertonic buffer was not significantly affected, while virion infectivity was dramatically impaired, correlating with the decreased incorporation of BDV G species into viral particles. These findings support the view that the propagation of BDV within the central nervous systems of infected hosts involves both a primary infection that follows a receptor-mediated endocytosis pathway and a subsequent cell-to-cell spread that is independent of the expression of the primary receptor and does not require the processing of BDV G into GP1 and GP2.
alpha-Dystroglycan (DG) is an important cellular receptor for extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins and also serves as the receptor for Old World arenaviruses Lassa fever virus (LFV) and lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) and clade C New World arenaviruses. In the host cell, alpha-DG is subject to a remarkably complex pattern of O glycosylation that is crucial for its interactions with ECM proteins. Two of these unusual sugar modifications, protein O mannosylation and glycan modifications involving the putative glycosyltransferase LARGE, have recently been implicated in arenavirus binding. Considering the complexity of alpha-DG O glycosylation, our present study was aimed at the identification of the specific O-linked glycans on alpha-DG that are recognized by arenaviruses. As previously shown for LCMV, we found that protein O mannosylation of alpha-DG is crucial for the binding of arenaviruses of distinct phylogenetic origins, including LFV, Mobala virus, and clade C New World arenaviruses. In contrast to the highly conserved requirement for O mannosylation, more generic O glycans present on alpha-DG are dispensable for arenavirus binding. Despite the critical role of O-mannosyl glycans for arenavirus binding under normal conditions, the overexpression of LARGE in cells deficient in O mannosylation resulted in highly glycosylated alpha-DG that was functional as a receptor for arenaviruses. Thus, modifications by LARGE but not O-mannosyl glycans themselves are most likely the crucial structures recognized by arenaviruses. Together, the data demonstrate that arenaviruses recognize the same highly conserved O-glycan structures on alpha-DG involved in ECM protein binding, indicating a strikingly similar mechanism of receptor recognition by pathogen- and host-derived ligands.
The recent emergence of novel pathogenic human and animal coronaviruses has highlighted the need for antiviral therapies that are effective against a spectrum of these viruses. We have used several strains of murine hepatitis virus (MHV) in cell culture and in vivo in mouse models to investigate the antiviral characteristics of peptide-conjugated antisense phosphorodiamidate morpholino oligomers (P-PMOs). Ten P-PMOs directed against various target sites in the viral genome were tested in cell culture, and one of these (5TERM), which was complementary to the 5' terminus of the genomic RNA, was effective against six strains of MHV. Further studies were carried out with various arginine-rich peptides conjugated to the 5TERM PMO sequence in order to evaluate efficacy and toxicity and thereby select candidates for in vivo testing. In uninfected mice, prolonged P-PMO treatment did not result in weight loss or detectable histopathologic changes. 5TERM P-PMO treatment reduced viral titers in target organs and protected mice against virus-induced tissue damage. Prophylactic 5TERM P-PMO treatment decreased the amount of weight loss associated with infection under most experimental conditions. Treatment also prolonged survival in two lethal challenge models. In some cases of high-dose viral inoculation followed by delayed treatment, 5TERM P-PMO treatment was not protective and increased morbidity in the treated group, suggesting that P-PMO may cause toxic effects in diseased mice that were not apparent in the uninfected animals. However, the strong antiviral effect observed suggests that with further development, P-PMO may provide an effective therapeutic approach against a broad range of coronavirus infections.
Developing countries have some of the highest stroke mortality rates in the world that account for over two-thirds of stroke deaths worldwide. Hospital-based studies suggest that the patterns of stroke types and causes of stroke differ between developing and developed countries, resulting in differing needs for acute and long-term care. Data on stroke care provision in developing countries are sparse and most of the available studies are biased towards urban settings in reasonably resourced health-care systems. A general overview shows that the quality and quantity of stroke care is largely patchy in low-income and middle-income countries, with areas of excellence intermixed with areas of severe need, depending upon patients' location, socioeconomic status, education, and cultural beliefs. Here we review the available literature on acute and long-term stroke management in developing countries. On the basis of available studies, largely from developed countries, we discuss the need to develop basic organised stroke-unit care in developing countries.
Lyme neuroborreliosis (LNB), the neurological manifestation of systemic infection with the complex spirochaete Borrelia burgdorferi, can pose a challenge for practising neurologists. This Review is a summary of clinical presentation, diagnosis, and therapy, as well as of recent advances in our understanding of LNB. Many new insights have been gained through work in experimental models of the disease. An appreciation of the genetic heterogeneity of the causative pathogen has helped clinicians in their understanding of the diverse presentations of LNB.
Differentiation of idiopathic Parkinson's disease from other causes of Parkinsonism, such as Multiple System Atrophy, Progressive Supranuclar Palsy and Vascular Parkinsonism can be difficult. Clinicopathological studies suggest that the clinical diagnosis of idiopathic Parkinson's disease is 76% reliable. Also, clinical differentiation of tremor prominent Parkinsonism from Essential Tremor or Drug induced Parkinsonism may be problematic, especially in the early stages of the disease. Since these disorders are obviously different in clinical progress, it is important for the clinician to address the patient's and family's concerns about prognosis from a firm diagnostic footing. In this article the clinical features of the common and important causes of Parkinsonism and tremor disorders are reviewed and a practical approach is suggested.
Independent component analysis with Infomax algorithm can separate functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data into independent spatial components (brain activation maps) and their associated time courses. In the current study, we propose a variant of the logistic transfer function in Infomax, referred to as a-logistic Infomax, and a postprocessing procedure to combine a consistently task-related (CTR) component with transiently task-related (TTR) components for a better definition of brain functional localization. This a-logistic Infomax introduced parameter a into the standard logistic transfer function of conventional Infomax algorithm. For postprocessing method, we suggest the use of a stepwise linear regression of CTR and TTR components to fit reference function and then to sum up with different weights only those with significant contributions to the reference function in order to obtain a task component activation map. The effectiveness of both approaches on separating components and functional localization was evaluated with simulated and real fMRI data.
Information is represented and processed in neural systems in various ways. The rate coding, population coding, and temporal coding are typical examples of representation. It is a hot issue in neuroscience what kinds of coding is used in real neural systems. Different regions of the brain may resort to different coding strategies. Moreover, recent studies suggest the possibility of dual or multiple codes, in which different modes of information are embedded in one neural system. The present paper reviews various possibilities of neural codes focusing on dual codes.
Wittgenstein, despite being considered an analytical philosopher, has been quoted extensively by neurologists like Oliver Sacks. This paper explores how Wittgenstein, despite suggesting that science was antithetical to philosophy, made observations relevant to cognitive neuroscience. His work on the inner and the outer, the relation between language and sensation or perception, and on the embodied nature of emotion and its communication, is important for an understanding of neurological impairment beyond our experience. In some of his enigmatic short writing his insights are pertinent to patients' experience, say of pain, Capgras' Syndrome and spinal cord injury. He also made observations on movement sense, will and action. He did not engage in empirical science, nor obtain data in any conventional sense. But his genius was not confined to abstract philosophy. His powers of observation and introspection led him to explore lived experience in new ways, some of which are only now being approached empirically. The method of science, he once wrote, leads philosophy into complete darkness. Had he lived today, one hopes that even he might have changed his mind.
It is known that amyloid-enhancing factor (AEF) shortens the preamyloid phase in experimentally induced AA amyloidosis in mice. Because it is reported that AEF serves as both a nidus and a template for amyloid formation, AA amyloidosis may have transmissibility by a prion-like mechanism. It has been shown that amyloid fibrils also have AEF activity, and amyloid fibrils with AEF activity were named fibril-amyloid enhancing factor (F-AEF). In this study, we investigated methods to inactivate the AEF activity. AEF was extracted from the thyroid gland obtained at autopsy of a patient with AA amyloidosis. Before injection into mice, AEF was treated with several methods for inactivation. Of all the tested treatments, 1 N NaOH, 0.1 N NaOH, and autoclaving consistently demonstrated complete inactivation of AEF. Heat treatment led to incomplete inactivation, but 0.01 N NaOH, 0.001 N NaOH, pepsin, trypsin, pronase, and proteinase K treatment had no effect on AEF activity. By analysis with transmission electron microscopy, the AEF preparation contains amyloid fibrils, and a change of ultrastructure was shown after 1 N NaOH, 0.1 N NaOH, and autoclaving treatment. Furthermore, immunoblotting of AEF with antihuman AA antibody revealed that the protein band was scarcely found after autoclaving, 1 N NaOH, and 0.1 N NaOH treatment. Our results suggest that, similar to Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD), amyloidosis may require chemical or autoclaving decontamination.
Pleasure is described as a state or feeling of happiness and satisfaction resulting from an experience that one enjoys. We examine the neurobiological factors underlying reward processes and pleasure phenomena. With regard to possible negative effects of pleasure, we focus on addiction and motivational toxicity. Pleasure can serve cognition, productivity and health, but simultaneously promotes addiction and other negative behaviors. It is a complex neurobiological phenomenon, relying on reward circuitry or limbic activity. These processes involve dopaminergic signaling. Moreover, nicotine, cocaine and alcohol appear to exert their pleasure providing action via endogenous morphinergic mechanisms. Natural rewarding activities are necessary for survival and appetitive motivation, usually governing beneficial biological behaviors like eating, sex and reproduction. Social contacts can further facilitate the positive effects exerted by pleasurable experiences. However, artificial stimulants can be detrimental, since flexibility and normal control of behavior are deteriorated. Additionally, addictive drugs are capable of directly acting on reward pathways, now, in part, via endogenous morphine processes.

Our understanding of the biology of gonadal steroids has expanded such that we now appreciate that the effects of gonadal steroid hormones, including estradiol and progesterone, extend beyond the strict confines of reproductive function and exert their effects on a wide range of tissue targets including, but not limited to, the bone, the heart and the brain. With respect to the brain, an increasing body of literature supports the protective effects of estradiol and progesterone. However, results from the Women's Health Initiative (WHI) underscored the fact that there may be important caveats to these protective effects and include the choice of hormone used. Here, we describe our current understanding of the neurobiology of progesterone and the synthetic progestin used in most formulations of hormone therapy, medroxyprogesterone acetate, and provide a review of the basic and clinical literature that address the importance of progestins in neuroprotection. In addition, we caution that the effects and mechanisms underlying the neurobiological effects of progestins may not be identical to those seen in non central nervous systems. And though additional research is certainly needed to explore the neurobiology of progesterone and its related progestins more completely, we provide evidence that, at least with respect to the brain, not all progestins are created equal.
The evidence supporting a treatment benefit for coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10) in primary mitochondrial disease (mitochondrial disease) whilst positive is limited. Mitochondrial disease in this context is defined as genetic disease causing an impairment in mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS). There are no treatment trials achieving the highest Level I evidence designation. Reasons for this include the relative rarity of mitochondrial disease, the heterogeneity of mitochondrial disease, the natural cofactor status and easy 'over the counter availability' of CoQ10 all of which make funding for the necessary large blinded clinical trials unlikely. At this time the best evidence for efficacy comes from controlled trials in common cardiovascular and neurodegenerative diseases with mitochondrial and OXPHOS dysfunction the etiology of which is most likely multifactorial with environmental factors playing on a background of genetic predisposition. There remain questions about dosing, bioavailability, tissue penetration and intracellular distribution of orally administered CoQ10, a compound which is endogenously produced within the mitochondria of all cells. In some mitochondrial diseases and other commoner disorders such as cardiac disease and Parkinson's disease low mitochondrial or tissue levels of CoQ10 have been demonstrated providing an obvious rationale for supplementation. This paper discusses the current state of the evidence supporting the use of CoQ10 in mitochondrial disease.
Since the identification of the genetic mutation causing Friedreich's ataxia (FRDA) our understanding of the mechanisms underlying disease pathogenesis have improved markedly. The genetic abnormality results in the deficiency of frataxin, a protein targeted to the mitochondrion. There is extensive evidence that mitochondrial respiratory chain dysfunction, oxidative damage and iron accumulation play significant roles in the disease mechanism. There remains considerable debate as to the normal function of frataxin, but it is likely to be involved in mitochondrial iron handling, antioxidant regulation, and/or iron sulphur centre regulation. Therapeutic avenues for patients with FRDA are beginning to be explored in particular targeting antioxidant protection, enhancement of mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation, iron chelation and more recently increasing FRDA transcription. The use of quinone therapy has been the most extensively studied to date with clear benefits demonstrated using evaluations of both disease biomarkers and clinical symptoms, and this is the topic that will be covered in this review.
The delta4 isoform of phospholipase C (PLC-delta4) is thought to be associated with various cellular functions and disease status. However, little is known about how its function is controlled in cells, particularly in terms of the regulation of its expression. To understand the regulation mechanisms of the PLC-delta4 gene transcription, the 5'-flanking region (-2046 approximately +5) (the nucleotide sequence data reported in this paper have been submitted to the EMBL/GenBank/DDBJ data bank under accession numbers DQ302751) of the human PLC-delta4 gene was isolated from human genomic DNA. It was a TATA-less promoter with very GC-rich sequences near the transcription start site. The activity of the PLC-delta4 promoter was shown in various human and mouse cell lines by luciferase reporter assay. Serial deletion analysis identified the core promoter region as being between -402 and -67, in which an E-box and an AP-1 binding site played important roles in the promoter activity. In addition, we also showed that 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-1,3-acetate (TPA), a PKC activator and tumor promoter, induced the activity of the PLC-delta4 promoter via the AP-1 binding site. In summary, this study identified a core promoter region of the hPLC-delta4 gene and the factor binding sites responsible for the promoter activity. These results will provide important new information to further understand the regulatory mechanism of the PLC-delta4 function.
The mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus (Me5) innervates muscle spindles and is responsible for receiving and transmitting proprioception from the oro-facial region. Molecular mechanisms underlying the development of the Me5 are poorly understood. Evidence is provided here that transcription factor Drg11 is required for Me5 development. Drg11 was expressed in the Me5 cells of the embryonic and early postnatal mouse brains, and the Me5 cells were absent in Drg11-/- mice at birth. The absence of the Me5 cells in Drg11-/- mice appeared to be caused by increased cell death in the Me5 during embryonic development. In postnatal Drg11-/- mice, Me5 cell innervation of masseter muscle spindles was undetectable, while robust trigeminal motoneuron innervation of masseter muscle fibers was detected. The postnatal body weight of Drg11-/- mice was notably less than that of wild-type mice, and this might result, in part, from disruption of the oro-facial proprioceptive afferent pathway. Taken together, our results demonstrate an essential role for Drg11 in the development of the Me5.
N-terminally tagged CB1 receptor fusion proteins, incorporating enhanced green fluorescent protein (GFP) or super-ecliptic pHluorin (SEP), were generated to study CB1 receptor trafficking and cell surface receptor expression in live COS7 and HEK293 cells and hippocampal neurons. An artificial signal sequence (SS) was required for efficient surface expression of CB1 receptor chimeras, which behaved like wild-type CB1 receptors in functional assays. Treatment with cannabinoid ligands led to a rapid down-regulation of SS-GFP-CB1 from the plasma membrane in COS7 and HEK293 cells, associated with trafficking into cytosolic vesicles. Activation of CB1 receptors was also linked with a time-dependent reduction in cell surface SEP-CB1 fluorescence and incorporation of the construct into acidic endosomes, revealed following exposure to NH4Cl. In live hippocampal neurons, SEP-CB1 fluorescence was largely restricted to the axon, consistent with its polarised surface expression. Thus, these new molecular tools are well suited for studying CB1 receptor trafficking and a new generation of GPCR chimeras incorporating SEP at the N-terminus will be especially useful for monitoring dynamic changes in cell surface receptor expression in living cells.
The neurotrophin BDNF regulates the activity-dependent modifications of synaptic strength in the CNS. Physiological and biochemical evidences implicate the NMDA glutamate receptor as one of the targets for BDNF modulation. In the present study, we investigated the effect of BDNF on the expression and plasma membrane abundance of NMDA receptor subunits in cultured hippocampal neurons. Acute stimulation of hippocampal neurons with BDNF differentially upregulated the protein levels of the NR1, NR2A and NR2B NMDA receptor subunits, by a mechanism sensitive to transcription and translation inhibitors. Accordingly, BDNF also increased the mRNA levels for NR1, NR2A and NR2B subunits. The neurotrophin NT3 also upregulated the protein levels of NR2A and NR2B subunits, but was without effect on the NR1 subunit. The amount of NR1, NR2A and NR2B proteins associated with the plasma membrane of hippocampal neurons was differentially increased by BDNF stimulation for 30 min or 24 h. The rapid upregulation of plasma membrane-associated NMDA receptor subunits was correlated with an increase in NMDA receptor activity. The results indicate that BDNF increases the abundance of NMDA receptors and their delivery to the plasma membrane, thereby upregulating receptor activity in cultured hippocampal neurons.
Pain modulatory circuitry in the brainstem exhibits considerable synaptic plasticity. The increased peripheral neuronal barrage after injury activates spinal projection neurons that then activate multiple chemical mediators including glutamatergic neurons at the brainstem level, leading to an increased synaptic strength and facilitatory output. It is not surprising that a well-established regulator of synaptic plasticity, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), contributes to the mechanisms of descending pain facilitation. After tissue injury, BDNF and TrkB signaling in the brainstem circuitry is rapidly activated. Through the intracellular signaling cascade that involves phospholipase C, inositol trisphosphate, protein kinase C, and nonreceptor protein tyrosine kinases; N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors are phosphorylated, descending facilitatory drive is initiated, and behavioral hyperalgesia follows. The synaptic plasticity observed in the pain pathways shares much similarity with more extensively studied forms of synaptic plasticity such as long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD), which typically express NMDA receptor dependency and regulation by trophic factors. However, LTP and LTD are experimental phenomena whose relationship to functional states of learning and memory has been difficult to prove. Although mechanisms of synaptic plasticity in pain pathways have typically not been related to LTP and LTD, pain pathways have an advantage as a model system for synaptic modifications as there are many well-established models of persistent pain with clear measures of the behavioral phenotype. Further studies will elucidate cellular and molecular mechanisms of pain sensitization and further our understanding of principles of central nervous system plasticity and responsiveness to environmental challenge.
Epigenetic genome modifications such as DNA methylation appear to be involved in various diseases. Here, we suggest that the levels of DNA methylation at the BssHII methylation-sensitive restriction enzyme sites in the human REELIN (RELN) gene in the forebrain vary among individuals. Interestingly, although a statistically significant correlation between the levels of DNA methylation in RELN and age was detected in healthy individuals, no such correlations were seen in either schizophrenic or bipolar patients. In addition, reverse correlations between DNA methylation levels and RELN expression were also detected in postmortem brain RNA and on in vitro assay. These data suggest the possibility that epigenetic aberration from the normal DNA methylation status of RELN may confer susceptibility to psychiatric disorders.
We studied the ability of heat shock, DnaJ-like-1 (HSJ1) proteins (which contain DnaJ and ubiquitin-interacting motifs) to reduce polyglutamine-mediated inclusion formation. The experiments demonstrated that expression of heat shock protein 70 (hsp70), hsp40, HSJ1a, and HSJ1b significantly reduced protein inclusion formation in a model of spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy (SBMA). HSJ1a also mediated a significant decrease in the number of inclusions formed in a primary neuronal model of protein aggregation. Studies to elucidate the mechanisms underlying these reductions showed that hsp70 and hsp40 increased chaperone-mediated refolding. In contrast, expression of HSJ1 proteins did not promote chaperone activity but caused an increase in ubiquitylation. Furthermore, HSJ1a was associated with a ubiquitylated luciferase complex, and in the presence of HSJ1a but not an HSJ1a UIM mutant (HSJ1a-deltaUIM) there was a reduction in luciferase protein levels. Together these results show that HSJ1 proteins mediated an increase in target protein degradation via the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS). We also found that the expression of HSJ1a significantly decreased the number of neurons containing inclusions in an in vivo model of polyglutamine disease. These findings indicate that targeted modification of the UPS to facilitate degradation of misfolded proteins may represent a highly effective therapeutic avenue for the treatment of polyglutamine disease.
Temporal lobe epilepsy patients remain refractory to available anti-epileptic drugs in 30% of cases, indicating a need for novel therapeutic strategies. In this context, glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) emerges as a possible new agent for epilepsy treatment. However, a limited number of studies, use of different epilepsy models, and different methods of GDNF delivery preclude understanding of the mechanisms for the seizure-suppressant action of GDNF. Here we show that recombinant adeno-associated viral (rAAV) vector-based GDNF overexpression in the rat hippocampus suppresses seizures in two models of temporal lobe epilepsy. First, when rAAV-GDNF was injected before hippocampal kindling, the number of generalized seizures decreased, and the prolongation of behavioral convulsions in fully kindled animals was prevented. Second, injection of rAAV-GDNF after kindling increased the seizure induction threshold. Third, rAAV-GDNF decreased the frequency of generalized seizures during the self-sustained phase of status epilepticus. Our data demonstrate the complexity of mechanisms and the beneficial action of GDNF in epilepsy. Furthermore, we show that ectopic rAAV-mediated GDNF gene expression in the seizure focus is a feasible way to mitigate seizures and provides proof of principle that the neurotrophic factor-based gene therapy approach has the potential to be developed as alternative strategy for epilepsy treatment.
Several case control studies have probed a link between cigarette smoking and subsequent multiple sclerosis (MS). Data collection and statistical methods have varied, and frequently, case numbers have been small. Publications relating to MS and smoking are reviewed and combined where comparable methods have been used. Metanalysis of six informative studies show significantly elevated odds or rate ratios, ranging from 1.22 to 1.51, depending on the method of analysis, confirming that the risk of MS is increased for those who smoke prior to disease onset, as measured by commencement of symptoms. A variety of direct causative mechanisms are discussed, but an indirect association through health adverse conduct is favoured.
The Moberg Pick-Up Test is a standardized test for assessing hand dexterity. Although reduction of sensation in the hand occurs with aging, the effect of age on a subject's performance of the Moberg Pick-Up Test has not been examined. The primary goal of this study was to examine the impact of aging and, secondarily, the impact of gender and handedness, on performance of the Moberg Pick-Up Test in 116 healthy subjects. The average time to complete each of the four subsets of the test was analyzed using the Kruskal-Wallis, Mann-Whitney U, and Wilcoxon signed-rank tests. The results show that hand dexterity of the subjects was significantly affected by age, with young subjects being the fastest and elderly subjects the slowest. Women accomplished the test faster than men, and task performance with the dominant hand was faster than with the non-dominant hand. Use of normative values established based on age and gender is a valuable objective tool to gauge hand function in patients with different neurologic disorders.
We report a patient with muscle-specific tyrosine kinase (MuSK) antibody-positive myasthenia gravis who experienced worsening of myasthenic weakness associated with alterations in estrogen and progesterone levels during the administration of oral contraceptive therapy. Single-fiber electromyography was performed to document changes in neuromuscular transmission associated with the clinical exacerbation and subsequent resolution of the menstrual exacerbation and clinical improvement experienced with continuous monophasic oral contraceptive therapy. The potential long-term benefit of ovulatory suppression in MuSK antibody-positive myasthenia gravis is discussed.

The balance between excitation and inhibition in the cortex is crucial in determining sensory processing. Because the amount of excitation varies, maintaining this balance is a dynamic process; yet the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. We show here that the activity of even a single layer 2/3 pyramidal cell in the somatosensory cortex of the rat generates widespread inhibition that increases disproportionately with the number of active pyramidal neurons. This supralinear increase of inhibition results from the incremental recruitment of somatostatin-expressing inhibitory interneurons located in layers 2/3 and 5. The recruitment of these interneurons increases tenfold when they are excited by two pyramidal cells. A simple model demonstrates that the distribution of excitatory input amplitudes onto inhibitory neurons influences the sensitivity and dynamic range of the recurrent circuit. These data show that through a highly sensitive recurrent inhibitory circuit, cortical excitability can be modulated by one pyramidal cell.
The firing pattern of entorhinal 'grid cells' is thought to provide an intrinsic metric for space. We report a strong experience-dependent environmental influence: the spatial scales of the grids (which are aligned and have fixed relative sizes within each animal) vary parametrically with changes to a familiar environment's size and shape. Thus grid scale reflects an interaction between intrinsic, path-integrative calculation of location and learned associations to the external environment.
In recent years, tremendous progress has been made in understanding the mechanisms underlying the specification of projection neurons within the mammalian neocortex. New experimental approaches have made it possible to identify progenitors and study the lineage relationships of different neocortical projection neurons. An expanding set of genes with layer and neuronal subtype specificity have been identified within the neocortex, and their function during projection neuron development is starting to be elucidated. Here, we assess recent data regarding the nature of neocortical progenitors, review the roles of individual genes in projection neuron specification and discuss the implications for progenitor plasticity.
Over successive stages, the ventral visual system develops neurons that respond with view, size and position invariance to objects including faces. A major challenge is to explain how invariant representations of individual objects could develop given visual input from environments containing multiple objects. Here we show that the neurons in a 1-layer competitive network learn to represent combinations of three objects simultaneously present during training if the number of objects in the training set is low (e.g. 4), to represent combinations of two objects as the number of objects is increased to for e.g. 10, and to represent individual objects as the number of objects in the training set is increased further to for e.g. 20. We next show that translation invariant representations can be formed even when multiple stimuli are always present during training, by including a temporal trace in the learning rule. Finally, we show that these concepts can be extended to a multi-layer hierarchical network model (VisNet) of the ventral visual system. This approach provides a way to understand how a visual system can, by self-organizing competitive learning, form separate invariant representations of each object even when each object is presented in a scene with multiple other objects present, as in natural visual scenes.
In the first part of this article, we analyze the relation between local image structures (i.e., homogeneous, edge-like, corner-like or texture-like structures) and the underlying local 3D structure (represented in terms of continuous surfaces and different kinds of 3D discontinuities) using range data with real-world color images. We find that homogeneous image structures correspond to continuous surfaces, and discontinuities are mainly formed by edge-like or corner-like structures, which we discuss regarding potential computer vision applications and existing assumptions about the 3D world. In the second part, we utilize the measurements developed in the first part to investigate how the depth at homogeneous image structures is related to the depth of neighbor edges. For this, we first extract the local 3D structure of regularly sampled points, and then, analyze the coplanarity relation between these local 3D structures. We show that the likelihood to find a certain depth at a homogeneous image patch depends on the distance between the image patch and a neighbor edge. We find that this dependence is higher when there is a second neighbor edge which is coplanar with the first neighbor edge. These results allow deriving statistically based prediction models for depth interpolation on homogeneous image structures.
The balanced random network model attracts considerable interest because it explains the irregular spiking activity at low rates and large membrane potential fluctuations exhibited by cortical neurons in vivo. In this article, we investigate to what extent this model is also compatible with the experimentally observed phenomenon of spike-timing-dependent plasticity (STDP). Confronted with the plethora of theoretical models for STDP available, we reexamine the experimental data. On this basis, we propose a novel STDP update rule, with a multiplicative dependence on the synaptic weight for depression, and a power law dependence for potentiation. We show that this rule, when implemented in large, balanced networks of realistic connectivity and sparseness, is compatible with the asynchronous irregular activity regime. The resultant equilibrium weight distribution is unimodal with fluctuating individual weight trajectories and does not exhibit development of structure. We investigate the robustness of our results with respect to the relative strength of depression. We introduce synchronous stimulation to a group of neurons and demonstrate that the decoupling of this group from the rest of the network is so severe that it cannot effectively control the spiking of other neurons, even those with the highest convergence from this group.
Among the changes that occur in the hippocampus with age, is a deficit in long-term potentiation (LTP). This impairment is associated with inflammatory changes, which are typified by increased concentration of the pro-inflammatory cytokine interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta). Activated microglia are the most likely cell source of IL-1beta, but data demonstrating an age-related increase in microglial activation is equivocal. Here we demonstrate that the age-related deficit in LTP is accompanied by increased expression of cell surface markers of activated microglia (major histocompatibility complex II and CD40) and increased IL-1beta production, and that these changes may be stimulated by interferon-gamma. Treatment of aged rats with eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) attenuates these changes and we suggest that IL-4 mediates the action of EPA. We demonstrate that aged rats exhibit an exaggerated response to intracerebroventricular injection of beta-amyloid peptide 1-40 (Abeta). Thus Abeta inhibited LTP in aged, but not young, rats and induced a further increase in hippocampal IL-1beta concentration. Of particular significance is the demonstration that EPA protects the aged brain so that the increased vulnerability to Abeta is ameliorated in EPA-treated rats.
alpha-Synuclein is a primarily neuronal protein that is enriched at the pre-synapse. alpha-Synuclein and the microtubule binding protein tau have been implicated in neurodegenerative diseases. alpha-Synuclein is known to associate with phospholipid vesicles, regulates dopamine metabolism and exhibits chaperone activity, but its main role remains largely unknown. Furthermore, knowledge on its interactions and post-translational modifications is essential for a molecular understanding of alpha-synucleinopathies. We investigated alpha-synuclein mutations, causative for autosomal dominant forms of Parkinson's disease (A30P, A53T and E46K), and phosphorylation mutants at serine 129 (S129A and S129D) using fluorescently labelled alpha-synuclein, actin and tau. The investigation of colocalization, and protein-protein interactions by Frster resonance energy transfer and fluorescence lifetime imaging showed that alpha-synuclein associates with the actin cytoskeleton and interacts with tau. The A30P mutation and cytoskeletal destabilization decreased this interaction. Given the concurrent loss of membrane binding by this mutation, we propose a membrane-bound functional complex with tau that might involve the actin cytoskeleton.
A patient with chronic aphasia underwent functional imaging during a language comprehension task using magnetoencephalography (MEG) before and after constraint induced language therapy (CILT). In the pre- and immediate post-treatment (TX) scans MEG activity sources were observed within right hemisphere only, and were located in areas homotopic to left hemisphere language areas. There was a significant increase in activation in these areas between the two sessions. This change was not observed in an age-matched patient with chronic aphasia who underwent sequential language testing and MEG scanning across a similar time period without being administered therapy. In the 3-month post-TX scan bilateral activation was observed, including significant activation within the left temporal lobe. The changes in the spatial parameters of the maps of receptive language function after therapy were accompanied by improvement in language function. Results provide support, in the same individual, for a role for both hemispheres in recovery of language function after therapy for chronic aphasia.
Thiamine-dependent enzymes are diminished in multiple neurodegenerative diseases. Thiamine deficiency (TD) reduces the activity of thiamine dependent-enzymes [e.g., the alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex (KGDHC)], induces regional selective neurodegeneration and serves as a model of a mild impairment of oxidative metabolism. The current experiments tested whether changes in KGDHC protein subunits (E1k, E2k and E3) or activity or message levels underlie the selective loss of neurons in particular brain regions. Thus, TD-induced changes in these variables in the brain region most vulnerable to TD [the sub-medial thalamic nucleus (SmTN)] were compared to those in a region that is relatively resistant to TD (cortex) at stages of TD when the neuron loss in SmTN is not present, minimal or severe. Impaired motor performance on rotarod was apparent by 8 days of TD (-32%) and was severe by 10 days of TD (-97%). At TD10, the overall KGDHC activity measured by an in situ histochemical staining method declined 52% in SmTN but only 20% in cortex. Reductions in the E2k and E3 mRNA in SmTN occurred as early as TD6 (-28 and -18%, respectively) and were more severe by TD10 (-61 and -66%, respectively). On the other hand, the level of E1k mRNA did not decline in SmTN until TD10 (-48%). In contrast, TD did not alter mRNA levels of the subunits in cortex at late stages. Western blots and immunocytochemistry revealed different aspects of the changes in protein levels. In SmTN, the immunoreactivity of E1k and E3 by Western blotting increased 34 and 40%, respectively, only at TD8. In cortex, the immunoreactivity of the three subunits was not altered. Immunocytochemical staining of brain sections from TD10 mice indicated a reduction in the immunoreactivity of all subunits in SmTN, but not in cortex. These findings demonstrate that the response of the KGDHC activity, mRNA and immunoreactivity of E1k, E2k and E3 to TD is region and time dependent. Loss of KGDHC activity in cortex is likely related to post-translational modification rather than a loss of protein, whereas in SmTN transcriptional and post-translational modifications may account for diminished KGDHC activity. Moreover, the earlier detection in TD induced-changes of the transcripts of KGDHC indicates that transcriptional modification of the two subunits (E2k and E3) of KGDHC may be one of the early events in the cascade leading to selective neuronal death.
Glutamate neurotoxicity is implicated in most neurodegenerative diseases, and in the present study the long-term effects of the glutamate agonist kainic acid (KA) on cerebellar neurons are investigated. Primary cell cultures, mainly consisting of glutamatergic granule neurons, were cultured in medium containing 0.05 or 0.50mM KA for 7 days and subsequently incubated in medium containing [U-13C]glutamate or [U-13C]glutamine. The amount of protein and number of cells were greatly reduced in cultures exposed to 0.50 mM KA compared to those exposed to 0.05 mM KA. Glutamine consumption was not affected by KA concentration, whereas that of glutamate was decreased by high KA, confirming reduction in glutamate transport reported earlier. Neurons cultured with 0.50 mM KA and incubated with glutamate contained decreased amounts of glutamate, aspartate and GABA compared to those cultured with 0.05 mM KA. Incubation of cells exposed to 0.50 mM KA with glutamine led to an increased amount of glutamate compared to cells exposed to 0.05 mM KA, whereas the intracellular amounts of aspartate and GABA remained unaffected by KA concentration. Furthermore, mitochondrial metabolism of alpha-[U-13C]ketoglutarate derived from [U-13C]glutamate and [U-13C]glutamine was significantly reduced by 0.50 mM KA. The results presented illustrate differential vulnerability to KA and can only be understood in terms of inter- and intracellular compartmentation.
Excitotoxicity has been widely hypothesized to play a major role in various neurodegenerative diseases. We have used a mouse model of ALS-parkinsonism dementia complex (ALS-PDC) of the Western Pacific to explore this hypothesis. Mice fed washed cycad flour, the major epidemiological link to ALS-PDC, showed significant and progressive motor, cognitive, and sensory behavioural deficits [Wilson, J.M., Khabazian, I., Wong, M.C., Seyedalikhani, A., Bains, J.S., Pasqualotto, B.A., Williams, D.E., Andersen, R.J., Simpson, R.J., Smith, R., Craig, U.K., Kurland, L.T., Shaw, C.A., 2002. Behavioral and neurological correlates of ALS-parkinsonism dementia complex in adult mice fed washed cycad flour. Neuromol. Med. 1 (3), 207-221]. In addition, glutamate transporter (GLT-1/EAAT2) levels measured by immunohistochemistry with antibodies specific for two glial glutamate transporter splice variants (GLT-1alpha and GLT-1B) were significantly down-regulated showing a 'patchy' loss of antibody label centered on blood vessels [Wilson, J.M., Khabazian, I., Pow, D.V., Craig, U.K., Shaw, C.A., 2003. Decrease in glial glutamate transporter variants and excitatory amino acid receptor down-regulation in a murine model of ALS-PDC. Neuromol. Med. 3 (2), 105-118]. Receptor binding assays showed decreased NMDA and AMPA receptor levels combined with increased GABA(A) receptor levels in various CNS regions. The alterations in GLT-1 variants and the ionotropic receptors are consistent with an increased level of extracellular glutamate. The interaction between environmental toxicity and genetic susceptibility was also tested using mice expressing various Apolipoprotein E (ApoE) genotypes. Mice lacking the ApoE gene showed relative resistance to cycad-induced toxicity as measured by GLT-1B labeling, but all mice expressing the human ApoE isoforms showed a similar loss of GLT-1B. We have further shown that an isolated cycad toxin (beta-sitosterol-beta-d-glucoside, BSSG), previously shown to release glutamate in vitro [Wilson, J.M., Khabazian, I., Wong, M.C., Seyedalikhani, A., Bains, J.S., Pasqualotto, B.A., Williams, D.E., Andersen, R.J., Simpson, R.J., Smith, R., Craig, U.K., Kurland, L.T., Shaw, C.A., 2002. Behavioral and neurological correlates of ALS-parkinsonism dementia complex in adult mice fed washed cycad flour. Neuromol. Med. 1 (3), 207-221], can be directly toxic to motor neurons in vivo [Wilson, J.M., Petrik, M.S., Moghadasian, M.H., Shaw, C.A., 2005. Examining the interaction of apo E and neurotoxicity on a murine model of ALS-PDC. Can. J. Physiol. Pharmacol. 83 (2), 131-141]. However, BSSG-fed mice did not show altered GLT-1B labeling in the spinal cord suggesting that an initial excitotoxic mechanism may not be responsible for the final neuronal loss observed. While glutamate-mediated excitotoxicity is likely involved in the outcomes following cycad/BSSG exposure, the precise location in the cascade of events ultimately leading to neuronal death remains to be determined.
The cystine/glutamate exchanger (antiporter x (c) (-) ) is a membrane transporter involved in the uptake of cystine, the rate-limiting amino acid in the synthesis of glutathione. Recent studies suggest that the antiporter plays a role in the slow oxidative excitotoxity and in the pathological effects of beta-N-oxalylamino-L: -alanine, the molecule responsible for neurolathyrism, a neurotoxic upper motor neuron disease. The mouse cystine/glutamate exchanger has been cloned and showed to be composed of two distinct proteins, one of which being a novel protein, named xCT, of 502 amino acids and 12 putative trans-membrane domains. We have generated and purified a polyclonal antibody to mouse xCT and studied its expression in rat brain and in different cultured cells (astrocytes, fibroblasts and neurons) using Western blot and immunocytochemical techniques. Expression of xCT was also studied in rat brain and muscle at different developmental stages. Parallel experiments were carried out with antibodies to the heavy chain of 4F2 surface antigen, the non-specific subunit of the antiporter x (c) (-) . xCT antibody detected in all cell and tissue extracts a specific band of about 40 kDa. Subcellular fractionation demonstrated that xCT is concentrated mainly in the microsomal-mitochondrial fraction, in accord with its structure as transmembrane protein. Immunocytochemical analysis showed a strong staining in all cells examined, included neurons. Furthermore, both xCT and the heavy chain of 4F2 surface antigen increased in the brain during development, reaching the highest expression in adulthood. The study of the expression and developmental profile of xCT represents a first step towards a better characterization of its biochemical properties and function, which in turn may help to understand the relative contribution of the x (c) (-) antiporter in the pathogenesis of certain neurodegenerative diseases.
Variability of the neuronal spike pattern is usually thought of in terms of the information that the different interspike intervals might be encoding. However, the very presence of the variability can have other kinds of functional significance. Here we consider the example of the B15/B16-ARC neuromuscular system of Aplysia, a model system for the study of neuromuscular modulation and control. We show that variability of motor neuron spike timing at the input to the system penetrates throughout the system, affecting all downstream variables including modulator release, modulator concentrations, modulatory actions, and the contraction of the muscle. Furthermore, not only does the variability penetrate through the system, but it is actually instrumental in maintaining its modulation and contractions at a robust, physiological level.
When modulators of neuromuscular function alter the motor neuron spike patterns that elicit muscle contractions, it is predicted that they will also retune correspondingly the connecting processes of the neuromuscular transform. Here we confirm this prediction by analyzing data from the cardiac neuromuscular system of the blue crab. We apply a method that decodes the contraction response to the spike pattern in terms of three elementary building-block functions that completely characterize the neuromuscular transform. This method allows us to dissociate modulator-induced changes in the neuromuscular transform from changes in the spike pattern in the normally operating, essentially unperturbed neuromuscular system.
We examined MRI abnormalities and language function in young patients with infarctions apparently confined to the basal ganglia to establish whether impaired performance was attributable to basal ganglia damage per se or to additional cerebral abnormalities. Seventeen stroke patients (10 with left- and 7 with right-hemispheric damage) and seventeen controls participated. MRI included perfusion imaging and voxel-based morphometry analyses of T1-weighted and diffusion data sets. Language was assessed using the CELF-III test. Analysis of CELF-III scores showed a main effect of presence or absence of stroke, with patients performing more poorly than controls. There was no evidence of differences between the left- and right-hemisphere groups. However individual patients with left-hemisphere lesions showed large variations in performance. In the patients with left-hemisphere damage, voxel-based morphometry showed significant relationships between language function and gray matter density in cortical language areas. The white matter analyses also showed correlations with language function, and in addition there were hemodynamic abnormalities in cortical language areas in the three patients with poorest language function. We suggest that language impairments following basal ganglia damage may be attributable primarily to abnormalities in cortical language areas that are too subtle to detect on conventional structural MRI.
Individuals with cerebellar lesions are impaired in the timing of repetitive movements that involve the concatenation of discrete events such as tapping a finger. In contrast, these individuals perform comparably to controls when producing continuous repetitive movements. Based on this, we have proposed that the cerebellum plays a key role in event timing-the representation of the temporal relationship between salient events related to the movement (e.g., flexion onset or contact with a response surface). In the current study, we used fMRI to examine cerebellar activity during discrete and continuous rhythmic movements. Participants produced rhythmic movements with the index finger either making smooth, continuous transitions between flexion and extension or with a pause inserted before each flexion phase making the movement discrete. Lateral regions in lobule VI, ipsilateral to the moving hand were activated in a similar manner for both conditions. However, activation in the superior vermis was significantly greater when the movements were discrete compared to when the movements were continuous. This pattern was not evident in cortical regions within the field of view, including M1 and SMA. The results are consistent with the hypothesis that subregions of the cerebellum are selectively engaged during tasks involving event timing.
The ability to react rapidly and efficiently to adverse stimuli is crucial for survival. Neuroscience and behavioral studies have converged to show that visual information associated with aversive content is processed quickly and accurately and is associated with rapid amplification of the neural responses. In particular, unpleasant visual information has repeatedly been shown to evoke increased cortical activity during early visual processing between 60 and 120 ms following the onset of a stimulus. However, the nature of these early responses is not well understood. Using neutral versus unpleasant colored pictures, the current report examines the time course of short-term changes in the human visual cortex when a subject is repeatedly exposed to simple grating stimuli in a classical conditioning paradigm. We analyzed changes in amplitude and synchrony of large-scale oscillatory activity across 2 days of testing, which included baseline measurements, 2 conditioning sessions, and a final extinction session. We found a gradual increase in amplitude and synchrony of very early cortical oscillations in the 20-35 Hz range across conditioning sessions, specifically for conditioned stimuli predicting aversive visual events. This increase for conditioned stimuli affected stimulus-locked cortical oscillations at a latency of around 60-90 ms and disappeared during extinction. Our findings suggest that reorganization of neural connectivity on the level of the visual cortex acts to optimize early perception of specific features indicative of emotional relevance.
While we occasionally observe negative BOLD signals, its physiological basis has remained uncertain. This is in part due to the qualitative use of fMRI where the baseline is conveniently differenced away to reveal focal area(s) of interest. Recently, however, there has been a noticeable trend towards quantitative neuroimaging where changes in oxidative energetics (CMR(O2)) are quantified by calibrated fMRI. Pasley et al. [Pasley, B.N., Inglis, B.A., Freeman, R.D., 2007. Analysis of oxygen metabolism implies a neural origin for the negative BOLD response in human visual cortex. NeuroImage] used calibrated fMRI in conjunction with a novel stimulus paradigm to investigate the neural basis of the negative BOLD signal in awake humans. They hypothesized - based on prior results - that if the baseline was lowered then DeltaCMR(O2) would have to be larger. While their main findings point to an energetic basis for the negative BOLD signal, their results have far reaching implications for the present definition of baseline as well as for future research investigating the neural and/or energetic basis of baseline.
The sustained negative blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) response in functional MRI is observed universally, but its interpretation is controversial. The origin of the negative response is of fundamental importance because it could provide a measurement of neural deactivation. However, a substantial component of the negative response may be due to a non-neural hemodynamic artifact. To distinguish these possibilities, we have measured evoked BOLD, cerebral blood flow (CBF), and oxygen metabolism responses to a fixed visual stimulus from two different baseline conditions. One is a normal resting baseline, and the other is a lower baseline induced by a sustained negative response. For both baseline conditions, CBF and oxygen metabolism responses reach the same peak amplitude. Consequently, evoked responses from the negative baseline are larger than those from the resting baseline. The larger metabolic response from negative baseline presumably reflects a greater neural response that is required to reach the same peak amplitude as that from resting baseline. Furthermore, the ratio of CBF to oxygen metabolism remains approximately the same from both baseline states (approximately 2:1). This tight coupling between hemodynamic and metabolic components implies that the magnitude of any hemodynamic artifact is inconsequential. We conclude that the negative response is a functionally significant index of neural deactivation in early visual cortex.
Analysis of fMRI time-series data is usually performed within the general linear model (GLM), and conclusions are based on the probability (p) of a false-positive voxel. In its simplest form, this process assumes that temporal noise in the time-series is random (white); if it is not, then an error in the estimation of p will occur. Various methods for correcting the problem have been developed, but they are not always used. Analysis packages vary in their ability to deal with this problem, and there is a lack of consistent advice to non-experts concerning whether this issue is serious or is small enough to be ignored. The variability of expert opinion partly reflects the fact that the magnitude of the error that occurs when estimating p in fMRI data is largely undocumented. In this discussion, aimed more at &quot;neuroscience users&quot; than methods experts, we try to clarify the position by documenting the scale of the error in a simple block-design experiment. Based on a fixed-effects group analysis of null datasets (8 participants scanned while at rest), we show that the magnitude of the problem can be very substantial. Without correction, it was necessary to set a nominal probability threshold of about p=0.000001 in order to achieve an actual probability of a false positive of 0.001. This means that if task-related activations were present in such a dataset, only if they reached the former, very low nominal p value could they be relied upon. With the use of standard correction methods, the error was largely removed. Our results suggest that some form of pre-whitening or correction for effects of non-white noise is essential in single-subject GLM analyses and fixed-effects group analyses of fMRI data. It is less important but probably prudent to apply a correction at the first level of random-effects group analyses. We also evaluate the effect of high-pass filtering. We find that the number of false positives in a fixed-effects analysis increases markedly as the filter cut-off frequency is increased. The sensitivity benefits derived from high-pass filtering may thus be partially offset by a significant increase in the number of false positives.
We present a 72-year-old woman with progressive dysphagia, dysarthria and tongue palsy who was initially diagnosed with bulbar-onset amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). However, the absence of atrophy or fasciculations in the tongue, as in other voluntary muscles, and the lack of reproducible neurophysiological evidence of denervation, prompted a revision of the diagnostic work-up, which eventually led to the discovery of a carcinoma of the tongue. This case report describes a relatively rare type of oropharyngeal carcinoma that, in its early stage, resembled a bulbar-onset ALS. This differential diagnosis is unusual, and it was fostered by the persistent lack of atrophy of the tongue and the absence of spreading of signs and symptoms of motor neuron degeneration.
Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) haplogroup-specific polymorphisms were previously related to several neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the precise role of mtDNA haplogroups in the neurodegenerative cascade leading to AD is still unclear. In this work we have genotyped predefined European mtDNA haplogroups in 209 patients with AD and 191 matched controls. In order to minimise the risk of &quot;genetic contamination&quot;, which could lead to false associations between gene markers and disease, we were careful to enrol in the study only patients and controls of clear Tuscan origin (with at least three generations of Tuscanborn relatives). The frequency of the haplogroups did not differ between the two groups, and no correlation with gender, ApoE genotype, age of onset or disease status was observed. Further studies will be required to define the contribution of mtDNA haplogroups, if any, to the pathogenesis of AD. A correct population selection, in order to minimise the risk of genetic contamination, is essential in these studies.
Cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) affects over 90% of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and increases the risk of cerebral haemorrhage and infarction. Caveolae--cholesterol-enriched plasmalemmal microinvaginations--are implicated in the production of amyloid beta peptide (Abeta). Caveolin-1 (CAV-1) is essential for the formation of caveolae. Caveolin-2 (CAV-2) is expressed at the plasma membrane only when in a stable hetero-oligomeric complex with CAV-1. CAV-1 and CAV-2 are highly co-expressed by endothelium and smooth muscle. Recent studies suggest that down-regulation of CAV-1 causes a reduction in alpha-secretase activity and consequent accumulation of Abeta. We have used quantitative immunohistochemical techniques to assess the relationship between CAV-1 and CAV-2 with respect to Abeta accumulation in the cerebral vasculature in a series of post mortem brains. CAV-1 and CAV-2 were co-expressed within the tunica media and endothelium of cerebral blood vessels. There were regional differences in CAV-1 immunolabelling, which was significantly greater in the frontal cortex and white matter than in the parietal lobe (in both control and AD cases) or the temporal lobe (in AD alone). However, CAV-1 labelling in AD did not differ from that in controls in any of the three lobes examined. Assessment of CAV-1 labelling in relation to the severity of CAA showed CAV-1 to be significantly increased in the frontal white matter in a subgroup of AD cases with absent/mild CAA compared with controls with absent/mild CAA and to AD cases with moderate/severe CAA, but the latter groups did not show significant differences from one another. CAV-1 labelling did not vary with age, gender, APOE genotype, post mortem delay or brain weight. Only segments of blood vessels with particularly abundant Abeta and extensive loss of smooth muscle actin showed loss of CAV-1 and CAV-2 from the tunica media. Within these vessels endothelial CAV-1 was preserved and discontinuous CAV-2 labelling was noted along the outer aspect of the vessel wall. Our findings suggest that alterations in the expression of vascular CAV-1 and CAV-2 are unlikely to play a role in the development of CAA in AD.
Experimental studies using models of multiple sclerosis (MS) indicate that rapid and extensive remyelination of inflammatory demyelinated lesions is not only possible, but is the normal situation. The presence of completely remyelinated MS lesions has been noted in numerous studies and routine limited sampling of post mortem MS material suggests that remyelination may be extensive in the early stages but eventually fails. However, visual macroscopic guided sampling tends to be biased towards chronic demyelinated lesions. Here we have extensively sampled cerebral tissue from two MS cases to investigate the true extent of remyelination. Sections were cut from 185 cerebral tissue blocks and stained with haematoxylin and eosin (H&amp;E), luxol fast blue and cresyl fast violet (LFB/CFV) and anti-myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein, human leucocyte antigen-DR (HLA-DR) and 200 kDa neurofilament protein antibodies. Demyelinated areas were identified in 141 blocks, comprising both white matter (WMLs) and/or grey matter lesions. In total, 168 WMLs were identified, 22% of which were shadow plaques, 73% were partially remyelinated and only 5% were completely demyelinated. The average extent of lesion remyelination for all WMLs investigated was 47%. Increased density of HLA-DR(+) macrophages and microglia at the lesion border correlated significantly with more extensive remyelination. Results from this study of two patients with long standing disease suggest that remyelination in MS may be more extensive than previously thought.
Functional recovery of neurons in the spinal cord after physical injury is essentially abortive in clinical cases. As neurotrophins had been reported to be responsible, at least partially, for the lesion-induced recovery of spinal cord, it is not surprising that they have become the focus of numerous studies. Studies on endogenous neurotrophins, especially the three more important ones, nerve growth factor (NGF), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) in injured spinal cord might provide some important clues in clinical treatment. Here we investigate the immunohistological expression of the above three factors at lower thoracic levels of the spinal cord as well as changes in the motor functions of the adult rat hindlimbs after cord transection. The injured rats were allowed to survive 3, 7, 14 and 21 days post operation (dpo). Flaccid paralysis was seen at 3 dpo following cord transection, however, hindlimb function showed partial recovery from 7 dpo to 21 dpo. The numbers of NGF, BDNF and NT-3 immunopositive neurons and their optical densities all increased in the lesion-induced cord. The immuno-expression of NGF and BDNF peaked at 7 dpo, while that of NT-3 peaked at 7 dpo and remained so at least up to 14 dpo. These results suggested that neurotrophins might play essential roles in functional recovery of after spinal cord injury, but the time points for the expression of the three factors differed somewhat.
Oxytocin mediates social affiliation behaviors and social memory in rodents. It has been suggested that disruptions in oxytocin contribute to the deficits in reciprocal social interactions that characterize autism. The present experiments employed a new social approach task for mice which is designed to detect low levels of sociability, representing the first diagnostic criterion for autism. Two lines of oxytocin knockout mice were tested, the National Institute of Mental Health line in Bethesda, and the Baylor/Emory line at the University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill. Similar methods were used for each line to evaluate tendencies to spend time with a stranger mouse versus with an inanimate novel object with no social valence. Adult C57BL/6J males were tested identically, as controls to confirm the robustness of the methods used in the social task. Comprehensive phenotyping of general health, neurological reflexes, olfactory and other sensory abilities, and motor functions was employed to assess both lines. No genotype differences were detected in any of the control measures for either line. Normal sociability, measured as time spent with a novel stranger mouse as compared to time spent with a novel object, was seen in both the NIMH and the Baylor/Emory lines of oxytocin null mutants, heterozygotes, and wild-type littermate controls. Normal preference for social novelty, measured as time spent with a second novel stranger as compared to time spent with a more familiar mouse, was seen in both the NIMH and the Baylor/Emory lines of oxytocin null mutants, heterozygotes, and wild-type littermate controls, with minor exceptions. Similar behavioral results from two independent targeted gene mutations, generated with different targeting vectors, bred on different genetic backgrounds, and tested in different laboratory environments, corroborates the negative findings on sociability in oxytocin mutant mice. Intact tendencies to spend time with another mouse versus with a novel object, in both lines of oxytocin knockouts, supports an interpretation that oxytocin plays a highly specific role in social memory, but is not essential for general spontaneous social approach in mice.
We previously identified H109 of the glycine alpha1 subunit as a putative proton binding site. In the present studies, we explored additional proton binding site(s) as well as the mechanism underlying modulation of glycine receptors by protons. Whole-cell glycine currents were recorded from HEK 293 cells transiently expressing wild type or mutant glycine receptors. Individual mutation of 3 of 4 remaining extracellular histidine residue into alanine (i.e., alpha1 H107A, H215A or H419A), reduced the receptor sensitivity to protons to a varying extent. In contrast, mutation of alpha1 H201A did not affect proton sensitivity. Double, triple or quadruple histidine mutation of these residues caused a further reduction of proton sensitivity, suggesting multiple binding sites for proton action on glycine receptors. Furthermore, the substitution T133A, which mediates Zn(2+) inhibition, virtually abolished the proton effect on peak amplitude and current kinetics of glycine response. Replacement of T with S on position 133 partially restored receptor sensitivity to protons, suggesting the hydroxyl group of residue T133 is essential for proton-mediated modulation. In heteromeric alpha1beta receptors, mutations beta H132A and S156A, which correspond to H109 and T133 of the alpha1 subunit, respectively, also affected proton inhibition. In conclusion, multiple extracellular histidine residues (H107, H109, H215 and H419) and threonine residues of the alpha1 and beta Zn(2+) coordination sites are critical for modulation of the glycine receptor by protons.
Opiate addiction is a chronic relapsing disorder characterized by high rates of relapse. The gamma-aminobutyric acid GABA(B) receptor agonist baclofen is known to affect the reinforcing effects of several drugs of abuse, including heroin, as well as to decrease cue-maintained responding for heroin, cocaine and nicotine and suppress alcohol deprivation effect in rats. Here we studied the effect of baclofen on the reinstatement of extinguished heroin-seeking behavior triggered by a priming injection of heroin in abstinent rats trained to stably self-administer heroin (30 microg/kg per infusion) under a continuous reinforcement schedule. Following extinction, the effect of non-contingent non-reinforced primings with heroin, baclofen or heroin/baclofen combination on the resumption of responding was evaluated. Results indicate that heroin priming (0.25mg/kg) promptly reinitiated heroin-seeking behavior, an effect dose-dependently reduced by baclofen at doses (0.625 and 1.25mg/kg) not affecting responding per s. Importantly, baclofen did not affect locomotion either alone or in combination with heroin, dispelling any doubt as to the eliciting of possible non-specific (motor) effects. The present results show that GABA(B) receptor activation may reduce the propensity to resume drug-induced heroin-seeking behavior thus offering a possible approach in maintaining opiate abstinence.
The hypothesis that kainate receptor blockade would be associated with anxiolytic-like effects was tested with a selective ligand, 3S,4aR,6S,8aR-6-((4-carboxyphenyl)methyl)-1,2,3,4,4a,5,6,7,8,8a-decahydroisoquinoline-3-carboxylic acid (LY382884). LY382884 selectively binds the GLU(K5) kainate receptor subunit (K(b)=0.6 microM) and has 30 microM or greater affinity for cloned human AMPA receptor subtypes. The anxiolytic potential of LY382884 was tested in rats responding under a Vogel conflict procedure, a pharmacologically validated model for the prediction of antianxiety efficacy in humans. Both the benzodiazepine anxiolytic chlordiazepoxide and LY382884 increased suppressed licking without affecting rates of non-suppressed licking. In contrast, an AMPA receptor selective antagonist, 7H-1,3-dioxolo[4,5-h][2,3]benzodiazepine-7-carboxamide, 5-(4-aminophenyl)-8,9-dihydro-N,8-dimethyl-, monohydrochloride (9CI) (GYKI53655), did not increase suppressed responding. The finding that a selective GLU(K5) receptor antagonist produced anxiolytic-like effects in an animal model predictive of efficacy in humans combined with data in the literature on glutamatergic modulation of anxiety suggests that kainate receptor sensitivity to glutamate might be an important mediating event in the pathophysiological expression of anxiety states. The selective targeting of kainate receptors with an antagonist could therefore be a novel pharmacological mechanism to treat anxiety disorders.
Thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) displays multiple CNS-mediated actions that have long been recognized to have therapeutic potential in treating a wide range of neurological disorders. Investigations of CNS functions and clinical use of TRH are hindered, however, due to its rapid degradation by TRH-degrading ectoenzyme (TRH-DE). We now report the discovery of a set of first-in-class compounds that display unique ability to both potently inhibit TRH-DE and bind to central TRH receptors with unparalleled affinity. This dual pharmacological activity within one molecular entity was found through selective manipulation of peptide stereochemistry. Notably, the lead compound of this set, L-pyroglutamyl-L-asparaginyl-L-prolyl-D-tyrosyl-D-tryptophan amide (Glp-Asn-Pro-D-Tyr-D-TrpNH(2)), is effective in vivo at producing and potentiating central actions of TRH without evoking release of thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH). Specifically, this peptide displayed high plasma stability and combined potent inhibition of TRH-DE (K(i) 151 nM) with high affinity binding to central TRH receptors (K(i) 6.8 nM). Moreover, intraperitoneal injection of this peptide mimicked and augmented the effects of TRH on behavioural activity in rat. Analogous to TRH, it also antagonized pentobarbital-induced narcosis when administered intravenously. This discovery provides new opportunities for probing the role of TRH actions in the CNS and a basis for development of novel TRH-based neurotherapeutics.


The generation effect (GE) is a phenomenon in which material that is produced by an individual is learned and remembered better than information that is provided to that individual. The current study examined the potential benefits of self-generation on learning and memory in individuals with traumatic brain injury (TBI) and multiple sclerosis (MS). The impact of cognitive impairment on the benefits of self-generation was also examined. Subjects consisted of 18 individuals with TBI and 31 individuals with clinically definite MS. Both the TBI and MS groups recalled significantly more words in the self-generated condition versus the provided condition. Those impaired in the domains of working memory, episodic memory, or executive functioning demonstrated a significant benefit from self-generation (all ps &lt; .05). Furthermore, although individuals with impairments in multiple cognitive domains recalled fewer words overall compared to those with no or one impaired cognitive domain, this group demonstrated a large effect size in the difference in recall for generated versus provided words. Results demonstrate that people with cognitive impairments can benefit from self-generation to improve learning and memory. Future research should focus on how to amplify the benefit of the GE for impaired groups, apply it to everyday functional tasks, and sustain its effect over time.
Patients with lesions in or near eloquent cortex typically undergo one of several invasive techniques to prevent loss of function following surgery. One of the most promising potential clinical applications of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is to map these functions as part of the pre-surgical work-up to identify patients at-risk, guide the surgical entry, or tailor the surgical procedure to prevent deficits. While motor and sensory mapping are relatively straightforward, language mapping is far more complex. The language system is variable in location across individuals and in many cases may reorganize partially or completely to the contralateral hemisphere. In addition, multiple regions of the brain contribute to language functioning including essential regions that must not be removed in surgery, and contributory regions that may result in transient or insignificant impairments post-surgery. Despite these challenges, an increasing number of studies have supported the use of fMRI for pre-surgical language mapping in a variety of disorders. This article reviews the literature from three disorders for which patients benefit from preoperative language mapping: epilepsy, brain tumors, and arteriovenous malformations. Each disorder presents unique challenges to language mapping. Specific case studies are presented highlighting the both the potential benefits of preclinical fMRI for language mapping as well as the potential risks and pitfalls.
Neuropsychopharmacology is dedicated to the study of the pathophysiology and treatment of mental pathology with the employment of centrally acting drugs. In neuropsychopharmacological research the clinical effects of a psychotropic drug are linked to the effects of the substance on brain structures involved in its mode of action. It is assumed, that knowledge about the mode of action of a selectively effective psychotropic drug will provide clues about the pathophysiology of the illness, and conversely, that knowledge about the pathophysiology of an illness, will provide clues for developing clinically more effective psychotropic drugs. Since the currently employed clinical methodology for the demonstration of therapeutic efficacy links the mode of action of psychotropic drugs to pharmacologically heterogeneous populations, neuropsychopharmacological research does not provide the necessary feedback for developing more effective drugs. To resolve the pharmacological heterogeneity within currently used diagnoses, attempts were made to split syndrome-based psychiatric diagnoses into discrete neurobiological deficits, and to replace traditional psychiatric nosology by a genetic psychiatric nosology. Yet, to date, there is no alternative methodology to psychopathology-based psychiatric nosology for classifying mental pathology in a clinically relevant manner. As we are moving from the &quot;neurotransmitter era&quot; to a &quot;genetic era&quot; in neuropsychopharmacology, the need for identifying pharmacologically homogenous populations is becoming imminent. All primary targets of psychotropic drugs in the brain are encoded by genes which are identified, and any nosologic entity or psychiatric syndrome that corresponds with a treatment responsive population is a candidate for the generation of genetic hypotheses relevant to mental illness. Recognition that progress in neuropsychopharmacology, and molecular genetic research, depends on the speed clinical research can resolve the pharmacological heterogeneity within currently used diagnoses, led to the development of methodologies for the identification of treatment responsive form(s) of illness, such as the Composite Diagnostic Evaluation (CODE) System, and nosologic homotyping. The CODE System is a methodology for the identification of treatment responsive forms of illness if covered up by consensus-based diagnoses; it consists of a set of diagnostic algorithms that can assign simultaneously a diagnosis from several classifications to a patient. Nosologic homotypes are identical in elementary units of mental illness and are assigned the same position in the nosologic matrix, based on three &quot;nosologic organizing principles. The empirically derived diagnostic categories are suitable for testing hypotheses relevant to the relationship between the &quot;processing of mental events&quot; and &quot;signal transduction&quot; in the central nervous system.
Preclinical and clinical studies indicate that females are more vulnerable to relapse than males, and the neurobiological effects of estrogen are thought to mediate, in part, the sex differences in cocaine-taking behavior. The goal of the present study was to investigate the involvement of estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha) and beta (ERbeta) in estrogen-mediated increases in cocaine-induced reinstatement of extinguished cocaine-seeking behavior in ovariectomized (OVX) female rats. Rats were initially trained to self-administer cocaine (0.4 mg/kg/inf, i.v.) under a fixed-ratio 1 (FR 1) schedule of reinforcement during daily 2-h sessions. After a 10-day maintenance period, cocaine solutions were replaced with saline, and self-administration was extinguished over a 14-day period. OVX rats were then treated with either the mixed ERalpha/beta agonist estradiol benzoate (EB), the ERalpha-selective agonist, propyl-pyrazole-triol (PPT), the ERbeta-selective agonist, diarylpropionitrile (DPN), or a vehicle control (dimethyl sulfoxide, DMSO). Treatment lasted a total of 9 days, and during this time, rats were assessed for nonreinforced reinstatement of extinguished cocaine-seeking behavior after priming injections of saline or cocaine (5, 10, or 15 mg/kg, i.p.). OVX rats showed no differences in self-administration during maintenance or extinction. OVX rats treated with EB exhibited greater responding for cocaine during reinstatement compared to OVX+DMSO controls. Selective activation of ERbeta with DPN also increased cocaine-induced reinstatement responding, whereas selective activation of ERalpha with PPT did not affect cocaine-seeking behavior. These results indicate that estrogen influences the propensity for reinstatement of extinguished cocaine-seeking behavior, and that estrogen-mediated enhancement of cocaine-induced reinstatement responding involves the activation of ERbeta.
The effect of ST1942, a 2-aminotetraline derivative with anti-inflammatory properties, was evaluated in ischemia/reperfusion injury in CD1 and C57BL/6 mice. ST1942 or saline were injected intraperitoneally 30 min and 6, 24, 36 h after ischemia. Forty-eight hours after ischemia, ST1942 (25 mg/kg) reduced the infarct volume by 50% in CD1 and 61% in C57BL/6 mice. All subsequent data were obtained from the latter strain. The ischemic lesion was significantly reduced by 30% when the first injection was administered 6 h after ischemia, revealing a broad effective window. Degenerating neurons in striatum, cortex and hippocampus of ischemic mice were markedly decreased by ST1942. Also examined was the effect of ST1942 on general and focal neurological deficits for 4 days after ischemia. Mice receiving the drug twice daily showed constantly reduced deficits. We then investigated the cortical mRNA expression of some inflammatory and apoptotic genes by real-time PCR. Forty-eight hours after ischemia ST1942 treatment significantly counteracted ischemia-induced activation of IL-1beta, TNFalpha, and Bax, and enhanced the expression of the antiapoptotic gene, Bcl-2, showing in vivo anti-inflammatory and antiapoptotic actions. The microglial activation/macrophage recruitment in the ischemic lesion was strongly prevented in mice receiving ST1942. In neuron-microglia cocultures, ST1942 significantly counteracted LPS-induced cytotoxicity. Binding data and experiments on microglial cell cultures indicate that the anti-inflammatory effect of ST1942 may be due to its action on 5-HT2B receptors, thus highlighting the possibility that this 5-HT receptor subtype may represent a novel target for neuroprotective drugs in ischemic injury.
Recent findings have led to a growing appreciation of the role of the lateral prefrontal cortex (PFC) in episodic long-term memory (LTM). Here, the authors will review results from neuropsychological and neuroimaging studies of humans and present a framework to explain how different regions of the PFC contribute to successful LTM formation. Central to this framework is the idea that different regions within the PFC implement different control processes that augment memory by enhancing or attenuating memory for certain aspects of a particular item or event. Evidence reviewed here suggests that ventrolateral regions of the PFC contribute to the ability to select goal-relevant item information, and that this processing strengthens the representation of goal-relevant features of items during LTM encoding. Dorsolateral regions of the PFC may contribute to the ability to organize multiple pieces of information in working memory, thereby enhancing memory for associations among items in LTM. Thus, dorsolateral and ventrolateral regions of the PFC may implement different control processes that support LTM formation in a complementary fashion.
Working memory and short-term memory are closely related in their cognitive architecture, capacity limitations, and functional neuroanatomy, which only partly overlap with those of long-term memory. The author reviews the functional neuroimaging literature on the commonalities and differences between working memory and short-term memory and the interplay of areas with modality-specific and supramodal representations in the brain networks supporting these fundamental cognitive processes. Sensory stores in the visual, auditory, and somatosensory cortex play a role in short-term memory, but supramodal parietal and frontal areas are often recruited as well. Classical working memory operations such as manipulation, protection against interference, or updating almost certainly require at least some degree of prefrontal support, but many pure maintenance tasks involve these areas as well. Although it seems that activity shifts from more posterior regions during encoding to more anterior regions during delay, some studies reported sustained delay activity in sensory areas as well. This spatiotemporal complexity of the short-term memory/working memory networks is mirrored in the activation patterns that may explain capacity constraints, which, although most prominent in the parietal cortex, seem to be pervasive across sensory and premotor areas. Finally, the author highlights open questions for cognitive neuroscience research of working memory, such as that of the mechanisms for integrating different types of content (binding) or those providing the link to long-term memory.
The concept of &quot;inhibition&quot; is widely used in synaptic, circuit, and systems neuroscience, where it has a clear meaning because it is clearly observable. The concept is also ubiquitous in psychology. One common use is to connote an active/willed process underlying cognitive control. Many authors claim that subjects execute cognitive control over unwanted stimuli, task sets, responses, memories, and emotions by inhibiting them, and that frontal lobe damage induces distractibility, impulsivity, and perseveration because of damage to an inhibitory mechanism. However, with the exception of the motor domain, the notion of an active inhibitory process underlying cognitive control has been heavily challenged. Alternative explanations have been provided that explain cognitive control without recourse to inhibition as concept, mechanism, or theory. This article examines the role that neuroscience can play when examining whether the psychological concept of active inhibition can be meaningfully applied in cognitive control research.


The fast and precise neuron-to-neuron signalling at the synapses is one of the most crucial processes in the central nervous system (CNS) function. Recent advances in the functional and morphological analysis of the brain synapses have identified adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP), a ubiquitous and most important molecule in the intracellular functions, to play important roles also as an extracellular messenger at synapses. Lines of evidence accumulated until today indicate that ATP (1) is released into the extracellular space particularly from astrocytes through specific mechanisms, (2) activates specific receptors for extracellular ATP, which modifies synaptic transmission, and (3) is hydrolysed to adenosine by ecto-nucleotidases, which in turn activates specific adenosine receptors modulating synaptic transmission. We have recently shown, using the patch-clamp recording of postsynaptic membrane currents in the acute brain slice preparations in vitro, that (1) ATP activates ATP-gated Ca2+ -permeable channels (P2X receptor channels) on presynaptic terminal membrane, triggering glutamate release without action potential, and (2) adenosine, produced from ATP in the extracellular milieu, activates presynaptic G protein-coupled receptors, which reduces Ca2+ entry through voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels and suppresses action potential-dependent transmitter release. These distinct mechanisms operate in synergy in various CNS structures and form the &quot;purinergic regulatory complex&quot; of the synaptic transmission.

Modifying dietary cholesterol may improve learning and memory but very high cholesterol can cause pathophysiology and death. Rabbits fed 2% cholesterol for 8, 10 or 12 weeks with 0.12 ppm copper added to distilled water and rabbits fed a normal diet without copper added to distilled water (0 weeks) were given a difficult trace classical conditioning task and an easy delay conditioning task pairing tone with corneal air puff. The majority of cholesterol-fed rabbits survived the deleterious effects of the diet but survival was an inverse function of the diet duration. Compared to controls, the level of classical conditioning and conditioning-specific reflex modification were an inverted &quot;U&quot;-shaped function of diet duration. Highest levels of responding occurred in rabbits on cholesterol for 10 weeks and trace conditioning was negatively correlated with the number of hippocampal beta-amyloid-positive neurons. Rabbits on the diet for 12 weeks responded at levels comparable to controls. The data provide support for the idea that dietary cholesterol may facilitate learning and memory but there is an eventual trade off with pathophysiological consequences of the diet.


Medical decision-making is based on benefit-to-cost analysis. Optimally, treatment obtains a high degree of benefit while minimizing the physical, social, and financial costs. The goals of the treatment of acoustic schwannomas are prohibiting tumor growth and alleviation of symptoms caused by damage to local structures. These symptoms-tinnitus, ataxia, and hearing loss--secondary to eighth nerve dysfunction, as well as symptoms arising from damage to adjacent structures such as the facial nerve, trigeminal nerve, or pons, can be caused by tumor growth or treatment. Determination of optimal therapy must also take into account an understanding of the natural history of the disease, because acoustic schwannomas are slow-growing benign tumors that when left untreated, usually enlarge over time and cause problems.
This paper reports cross-national data concerning back or neck pain comorbidity with mental disorders. We assessed (a) the prevalence of chronic back/neck pain, (b) the prevalence of mental disorders among people with chronic back/neck pain, (c) which mental disorder had strongest associations with chronic back/neck pain, and (d) whether these associations are consistent across countries. Population surveys of community-dwelling adults were carried out in 17 countries in Europe, the Americas, the Middle East, Africa, Asia, and the South Pacific (N=85,088). Mental disorders were assessed with the Composite International Diagnostic Interview, third version (CIDI 3.0): anxiety disorders (generalized anxiety disorder, panic disorder/agoraphobia, posttraumatic stress disorder, and social anxiety disorder), mood disorders (major depression and dysthymia), and alcohol abuse or dependence. Back/neck pain was ascertained by self-report. Between 10% and 42% reported chronic back/neck pain in the previous 12 months. After adjusting for age and sex, mental disorders were more common among persons with back/neck pain than among persons without. The pooled odds ratios were 2.3 [95% CI=2.1-2.5] for mood disorders, 2.2 [95% CI=2.1-2.4] for anxiety disorders, and 1.6 [95% CI=1.4-1.9] for alcohol abuse/dependence in people with versus without chronic back/neck pain. Although prevalence rates of back/neck pain were generally lower than in previous reports, mental disorders were associated with chronic back/neck pain. The strength of association was stronger for mood and anxiety disorders than for alcohol abuse/dependence. The association of mental disorders with back/neck pain showed a consistent pattern across both developed and developing countries.
The purpose of the present paper was to investigate the heterogeneous nature of amyloid deposits in the liver, by immunohistochemical and immunochemical examination of liver samples from cases of immunoglobulin lambda light chain amyloidosis (Alambda amyloidosis) with antibodies generated against the peptides corresponding to the three different regions of the lambda light chain. Amyloid deposits in the hepatic artery tended to react better with anti-lambda(118-134) than with anti-lambda(159-175). Amyloid deposits in the space of Disse tended to react weakly or partially with anti-lambda(118-134) but well with anti-lambda(159-175). Amyloid deposits in the portal vein reacted relatively well with both antibodies. By western blotting of water-extracted amyloid in which amyloid deposits were not stained with anti-lambda(118-134) immunohistochemically, the three antibodies detected 27 kDa bands consistent with the full-length Ig lambda chain and some smaller bands. These findings indicate that amyloid deposits may not be homogeneous in the liver of AL amyloidosis, and that molecular heterogeneity of amyloid fibril protein or a difference in the mode of deposition results in the histopathological heterogeneity of AL amyloid deposits even within a single patient.
The overall purpose of this article is to describe the speech and language abilities of children who have selected clinical conditions, not only to characterize the outcomes of those conditions, but also to understand fundamental requirements for language learning in typically developing children. This developmental cognitive neuroscience analysis conceptualizes the clinical conditions as naturalistic experimental manipulations, selectively altering factors in the language-learning situation that could not otherwise be ethically manipulated in a research study.
Attention, memory, executive function, language, and visual-motor skills were evaluated in a sample of 621 children, 6 to 11 years old, to assess the discriminant validity of neuropsychologic testing. Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder cases (249) and controls (372) were identified and tested. Analysis of covariance, nonparametric comparison tests, effect sizes, discriminant function, factor analyses, and receiver-operator characteristics curve analyses were used to establish the best diagnostic cutoff points for each variable. Statistically significant differences were found on cognitive effort, auditory skills, continuous performance test, working memory, visual-motor skills, verbal comprehension, and executive function measures (P &lt; 0.05); however, the effect of group sizes was low to modest (0.24 to 0.54). Receiver-operator characteristics curve analysis showed modest sensitivity and low specificity, demonstrating that an important proportion of the variance in test scores was overlapping. Factor analysis of neuropsychologic testing results revealed a structure of six factors each for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, control, and combined samples. The latent variables produced one discriminant function with a total correct classification accuracy of 61.9%. Neuropsychologic tests should be used as Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder diagnostic tools with caution, but they hold promise for identifying core cognitive deficits and processes that can aid prevention and intervention.
[(pF)Phe(4)Aib(7)Arg(14)Lys(15)]N/OFQ-NH(2) (UFP-112) has been designed as a novel ligand for the nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) peptide receptor (NOP) by combining into the same peptide different chemical modifications reported to increase N/OFQ potency. In vitro data obtained in the electrically stimulated mouse vas deferens demonstrated that UFP-112 behaved as a high potency (pEC(50) 9.43) full agonist at the NOP receptor. UFP-112 effects were sensitive to the NOP antagonist UFP-101 but not to naloxone and no longer evident in tissues taken from NOP(-/-) mice. In vitro half life of UFP-112 in mouse plasma and brain homogenate was 2.6- and 3.5-fold higher than that of N/OFQ. In vivo, in the mouse tail withdrawal assay, UFP-112 (1-100pmol, i.c.v.) mimicked the actions of N/OFQ producing pronociceptive effects after i.c.v. administration and antinociceptive effects when given i.t.; in both cases, UFP-112 was approximately 100-fold more potent than the natural peptide and produced longer lasting effects. UFP-112 also mimicked the hyperphagic effect of N/OFQ producing a bell shaped dose response curve with the maximum reached at 10pmol. The hyperphagic effects of N/OFQ and UFP-112 were absent in NOP(-/-) mice. Equi-effective high doses of UFP-112 (0.1nmol) and N/OFQ (10nmol) were injected i.c.v. in mice and spontaneous locomotor activity recorded for 16h. N/OFQ produced a clear inhibitory effect which lasted for 60min while UFP-112 elicited longer lasting effects (&gt;6h). In conscious rats, UFP-112 (0.1 and 10nmol/kg, i.v.) produced a marked and sustained decrease in heart rate, blood pressure, and urinary sodium excretion and a profound increase in urine flow. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that UFP-112 behaves in vitro and in vivo as a highly potent and selective ligand able to produce full and long lasting activation of NOP receptors.
Studies showed that nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) peptide receptor (NOP) agonists produce anxiolytic-like actions, while little is known about the effects of blockade of NOP receptor signaling in anxiety. To this aim, we investigated the behavioral phenotype of NOP receptor gene knockout mice (NOP(-/-)) in different assays. In the elevated plus-maze and light-dark box, NOP(-/-) mice displayed increased anxiety-related behavior. In the novelty-suppressed feeding behavior and elevated T-maze, NOP(-/-) mice showed anxiolytic-like phenotype, while no differences were found in the open-field, hole-board, marble-burying, and stress-induced hyperthermia. Altogether, these findings suggest that the N/OFQ-NOP receptor system modulates anxiety-related behavior in a complex manner.
The product of the ABCB1 gene, P-glycoprotein (PGP), is a transmembrane active efflux pump for a variety of drugs. It is a putative mechanism of multidrug resistance in a range of diseases. It is postulated that ABCB1 polymorphisms contribute to variability in PGP function, and that therefore multidrug resistance is, at least in part, genetically determined. However, studies of ABCB1 genotype or haplotype and PGP expression, activity or drug response have produced inconsistent results. This critical review of ABCB1 genotype and PGP function, including mRNA expression, PGP-substrate drug pharmacokinetics and drug response, highlights methodological limitations of existing studies, including inadequate power, potential confounding by co-morbidity and co-medication, multiple testing, poor definition of disease phenotype and outcomes, and analysis of multiple drugs that might not be PGP substrates. We have produced recommendations for future research that will aid clarification of the association between ABCB1 genotypes and factors related to PGP activity.
To identify brain areas involved in ethanol-induced Pavlovian conditioning, brains of male DBA/2J mice were immunohistochemically analyzed for FOS expression after exposure to a conditioned stimulus (CS) previously paired with ethanol (2 g/kg) in two experiments. Mice were trained with a procedure that normally produces place preference (Before: ethanol before the CS) or one that normally produces place aversion (After: ethanol after the CS). Control groups received unpaired ethanol injections in the home cage (Delay) or saline only (Nave). On the test day, mice were exposed to the 5-min CS 90 min before sacrifice. Before groups showed a conditioned increase in activity, whereas the After group showed a conditioned decrease in activity. FOS expression after a drug-free CS exposure was significantly higher in Before-group mice than in control mice in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (Experiment 1) and anterior ventral tegmental area (Experiments 1-2). Conditioned FOS responses were also seen in areas of the extended amygdala and hippocampus (Experiment 2). However, no conditioned FOS changes were seen in any brain area examined in After-group mice. Overall, these data suggest an important role for the mesolimbic dopamine pathway, extended amygdala and hippocampus in ethanol-induced conditioning.

Pain is the primary reason that people seek medical care. At present, chronic unremitting pain is the third greatest health problem after heart disease and cancer. Chronic pain is an economic burden in lost wages, lost productivity, medical expenses, legal fees and compensation. Chronic pain is defined as a pain of greater than 2 months duration. It can be of inflammatory or neuropathic origin that can arise following nerve injury or in the absence of any apparent injury. Chronic pain is characterized by an altered pain perception that includes allodynia (a response to a normally non-noxious stimuli) and hyperalgesia (an exaggerated response to a normally noxious stimuli). This type of pain is often insensitive to the traditional analgesics or surgical intervention. The study of the cellular and molecular mechanisms that contribute to chronic pain are of the up-most importance for the development of a new generation of analgesic agents. Protein kinase C isozymes are under investigation as potential therapeutics for the treatment of chronic pain conditions. The anatomical localization of protein kinase C isozymes in both peripheral and central nervous system sites that process pain have made them the topic of basic science research for close to two decades. This review will outline the research to date on the involvement of protein kinase C in pain and analgesia. In addition, this review will try to synthesize these works to begin to develop a comprehensive mechanistic understanding of how protein kinase C may function as a master regulator of the peripheral and central sensitization that underlies many chronic pain conditions.
Suprathreshold stochastic resonance (SSR) is a form of noise-enhanced signal transmission that occurs in a parallel array of independently noisy identical threshold nonlinearities, including model neurons. Unlike most forms of stochastic resonance, the output response to suprathreshold random input signals of arbitrary magnitude is improved by the presence of even small amounts of noise. In this paper, the information transmission performance of SSR in the limit of a large array size is considered. Using a relationship between Shannon's mutual information and Fisher information, a sufficient condition for optimality, i.e., channel capacity, is derived. It is shown that capacity is achieved when the signal distribution is Jeffrey's prior, as formed from the noise distribution, or when the noise distribution depends on the signal distribution via a cosine relationship. These results provide theoretical verification and justification for previous work in both computational neuroscience and electronics.
We present a method to infer the complete connectivity of a network from its stable response dynamics. As a paradigmatic example, we consider networks of coupled phase oscillators and explicitly study their long-term stationary response to temporally constant driving. For a given driving condition, measuring the phase differences and the collective frequency reveals information about how the units are interconnected. Sufficiently many repetitions for different driving conditions yield the entire network connectivity (the absence or presence of each connection) from measuring the response dynamics only. For sparsely connected networks, we obtain good predictions of the actual connectivity even for formally underdetermined problems.
Marsupials are a diverse group of mammals that occupy a large range of habitats and have evolved a wide array of unique adaptations. Although they are as diverse as placental mammals, our understanding of marsupial brain organization is more limited. Like placental mammals, marsupials have striking similarities in neocortical organization, such as a constellation of cortical fields including S1, S2, V1, V2, and A1, that are functionally, architectonically, and connectionally distinct. In this review, we describe the general lifestyle and morphological characteristics of all marsupials and the organization of somatosensory, motor, visual, and auditory cortex. For each sensory system, we compare the functional organization and the corticocortical and thalamocortical connections of the neocortex across species. Differences between placental and marsupial species are discussed and the theories on neocortical evolution that have been derived from studying marsupials, particularly the idea of a sensorimotor amalgam, are evaluated. Overall, marsupials inhabit a variety of niches and assume many different lifestyles. For example, marsupials occupy terrestrial, arboreal, burrowing, and aquatic environments; some animals are highly social while others are solitary; different species are carnivorous, herbivorous, or omnivorous. For each of these adaptations, marsupials have evolved an array of morphological, behavioral, and cortical specializations that are strikingly similar to those observed in placental mammals occupying similar habitats, which indicate that there are constraints imposed on evolving nervous systems that result in recurrent solutions to similar environmental challenges.
The lineages of both astrocytes and oligodendrocytes have been popular areas of research in the last decade. The source of these cells in the mature CNS is relevant to the study of the cellular response to CNS injury. A significant amount of evidence exists to suggest that resident precursor cells proliferate and differentiate into mature glial cells that facilitate tissue repair and recovery. Additionally, the re-entry of mature astrocytes into the cell cycle can also contribute to the pool of new astrocytes that are observed following CNS injury. In order to better understand the glial response to injury in the adult CNS we must revisit the astrocyte-oligodendrocyte relationship. Specifically, we argue that there is a common glial precursor cell from which astrocytes and oligodendrocytes differentiate and that the microenvironment surrounding the injury determines the fate of the stimulated precursor cell. Ideally, better understanding the origin of new glial cells in the injured CNS will facilitate the development of therapeutics targeted to alter the glial response in a beneficial way.
The pineal gland secretes the hormone melatonin. This secretion exhibits a circadian rhythm with a zenith during night and a nadir during day. We have performed proteome analysis of the superficial pineal gland in rats during daytime and nighttime. The proteins were extracted and subjected to 2-DE. Of 1747 protein spots revealed by electrophoresis, densitometric analysis showed the up-regulation of 25 proteins during nighttime and of 35 proteins during daytime. Thirty-seven of the proteins were identified by MALDI-TOF MS. The proteins up-regulated during the night are involved in the Krebs cycle, energy transduction, calcium binding, and intracellular transport. During the daytime, enzymes involved in glycolysis, electron transport, and also the Krebs cycle were up-regulated as well as proteins taking part in RNA binding and RNA processing. Our data show a prominent day-night variation of the protein levels in the rat pineal gland. Some proteins are up-regulated during the night concomitant with the melatonin secretion of the gland. Other proteins are up-regulated during the day indicating a pineal metabolism not related to the melatonin synthesis.
Differential protein labeling with 2-DE separation is an effective method for distinguishing differences in the protein composition of two or more protein samples. Here, we report on a sensitive infrared-based labeling procedure, adding a novel tool to the many labeling possibilities. Defined amounts of newborn and adult mouse brain proteins and tubulin were exposed to maleimide-conjugated infrared dyes DY-680 and DY-780 followed by 1- and 2-DE. The procedure allows amounts of less than 5 microg of cysteine-labeled protein mixtures to be detected (together with unlabeled proteins) in a single 2-DE step with an LOD of individual proteins in the femtogram range; however, co-migration of unlabeled proteins and subsequent general protein stains are necessary for a precise comparison. Nevertheless, the most abundant thiol-labeled proteins, such as tubulin, were identified by MS, with cysteine-containing peptides influencing the accuracy of the identification score. Unfortunately, some infrared-labeled proteins were no longer detectable by Western blots. In conclusion, differential thiol labeling with infrared dyes provides an additional tool for detection of low-abundant cysteine-containing proteins and for rapid identification of differences in the protein composition of two sets of protein samples.
Of interest was whether prior testing of related words primes false memories in the Deese/Roediger-McDermott (DRM) paradigm. After studying lists of related words, subjects made old-new judgments about zero, three, or six related items before being tested on critical nonpresented lures. When the recognition test was self-paced, prior testing of list items led to faster false recognition judgments, but did not increase the rate of false alarms to lures from studied lists. Critically, this pattern changed when decision making at test was speeded. When forced to respond quickly--presumably precluding the use of monitoring processes--clear test-induced priming effects were observed in the rate of false memories. The results are consistent with an activation-monitoring explanation of false memories and support that retrieving veridical memories can be a source of memory error.
It is well known that irrelevant color words affect the time needed to identify the color they are displayed in (the Stroop effect). One major view is that a reverse Stroop effect (RSE)--in which the irrelevant color affects the time needed to identify the word--does not occur unless a translation is needed between domain-specific memory codes. In the present article, we report an experiment in which the reverse Stroop effect was investigated by having subjects identify a colored word at fixation by pointing to a location on the screen containing that word. Although the response was untranslated, an RSE was observed. An account is provided in which the strength of association between a stimulus and a specific response plays a central role.



Over the past decade imaging technologies employed in clinical neurosciences have significantly advanced. Imaging is not only used for the diagnostic work-up of neurological disorders but also crucial to follow up on therapeutic efforts. Using disease-specific imaging parameters, as read-outs for the efficiency of individual therapies, has facilitated the development of various novel treatments for neurological disease. Here, we review various imaging technologies, such as cranial computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and spectroscopy (MRS), positron emission tomography (PET) and single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), with respect to their current applications in non-invasive disease phenotyping and the measurement of therapeutic outcomes in neurology. In particular, applications in neuro-oncology, Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, and cerebral ischemia are discussed. Non-invasive imaging provides further insights into the molecular pathophysiology of human diseases and facilitates the design and implementation of improved therapies.

The alpha7 subtype of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) is a target of considerable interest in CNS drug discovery, in part due to its implication in diseases of unmet medical need such as schizophrenia and Alzheimer's disease. Pharmacological distinction of this subtype from other nAChRs is exemplified by antagonists such as alpha-bungarotoxin and methyllycaconitine, and more recently by agonists that have emerged from various structural classes. Increasing evidence, both preclinical and clinical, has also demonstrated that alpha7 nAChR agonists and partial agonists can lead to improvements in cognitive performance. An attractive alternative approach to modulating alpha7 nAChR function is to enhance the effects of the endogenous neurotransmitter acetylcholine (ACh) through positive allosteric modulation (PAM). This class of compounds - positive allosteric modulators (PAMs) - could selectively modulate the activity of ACh at alpha7 nAChRs in a manner that may have significant advantages over indiscriminate and direct activation of nAChRs by nicotine/nicotinic agonists or by acetylcholinesterase inhibitors. Validation of the alpha7 nAChR-selective PAM approach requires the identification of potent and selective compounds. Initially identified nAChR allosteric modulators, including 5-hydroxyindole (5-HI), galantamine, bovine serum albumin, and SLURP-1, are weak and nonselective. More recently, potent and alpha7 nAChR-selective PAMs belonging to diverse chemotypes have emerged and are beginning to be optimized as tools for concept validation in preclinical models and in the clinic. This review summarizes the current status of nAChR-selective PAMs, from patents and published literature, and their potential for the treatment of cognitive deficits associated with neuropsychiatric and neurodegenerative disorders and other diseases.
All feces produced during 24 h were collected from five pigs and cortisol and immunoreactive cortisol metabolites (CICM), and IgA were quantified. Within pigs, the concentrations of CICM and IgA varied extensively between random samples obtained from a single fecal dropping, and deviated in most cases significantly from the true concentration measured in total fecal output (CV 6.7-130%). The CICM and IgA contents varied considerably (CV 8.1-114%) within and between individual fecal droppings from the same pig compared to the total fecal excretion. In conclusion, single random samples could not be used to reliably quantify the total fecal concentration or excretion of CICM or IgA in pigs. Analyses of all feces collected during shorter periods than 24 h did not provide an accurate estimate of the daily excretion of CICM. Thus, the concentration of stress sensitive molecules in random single fecal samples as an indicator of animal welfare should be interpreted with prudence.
Although conventional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is used for diagnosing multiple sclerosis (MS) and monitoring disease activity and course, the correlation between conventional MRI data and clinical findings remains weak. This &quot;clinical-MRI paradox&quot; could be partly due to the lack of MRI specificity related to the heterogeneous pathological substrates of MS and to its inability to quantify the extent of damage in the normal-appearing tissue. Recently, non-conventional MRI techniques, including magnetization transfer MRI, diffusion tensor MRI, and proton MR spectroscopy have been applied to improve our understanding of the pathophysiology of MS. These techniques may provide information about structural and biochemical changes occurring within and outside macroscopic MS lesions (inflammation, demyelination, axonal loss), in particular in the normal-appearing white and grey matter. These techniques could also significantly improve our ability to monitor inflammatory demyelination and axonal injury. In the same way, functional MRI gives us the potential substrate to assess the mechanisms of adaptive cortical reorganization, which may limit the irreversible consequences of MS tissue injury.
The perichondrial envelopes of the septal cartilage and the lateral crus of the lobular cartilage were studied in serial coronal sections of five human noses. To differentiate between the various tissue components, the sections were stained according to Mallory-Cason, Azan, Herovici, Verhoeff-van Gieson, and Lawson. Collagen types I and II were immunohistochemically stained. The results demonstrated that the perichondrium of the septal cartilage and the lateral crus of the lobular cartilage consists of a homogeneous layer of type I collagen fibers and elastic fibers. The elastic fibers have a network-like arrangement and are most numerous in the perichondrium of the lateral crus of the lobular cartilage. Clearly distinguishable zones in the perichondrial envelopes could not be observed. The perichondrium on the outside of the lateral crus of the lobular cartilage and the triangular cartilage is significantly thicker than the inner perichondrium. It is speculated that these morphological characteristics of the perichondrial envelopes are related to functional differences between the cartilages. The mobility of the lateral crus of the lobular cartilage requires a higher content of elastic fibers in its perichondrium than the more rigid septal cartilage. A thicker outer perichondrium of the lateral crus of the lobular cartilage and the triangular cartilage may be related to muscular forces that are exerted on the outer side of the cartilages only.
The cellular elements and extracellular matrix of the nasal septal cartilage and the lateral crus of the lobular cartilage were studied in serial coronal sections of five human cadaver noses. To discern the various tissue components, the sections were stained according to the methods of Mallory-Cason, Azan, Herovici, Verhoeff-van Gieson, and Lawson as well as by immunohistochemistry to demonstrate the presence of collagen type I and II. A characteristic gradual transition of the chondrocytes was observed in both septal and lobular cartilage: from numerous small flat cells oriented parallel to the surface of the cartilage to less numerous larger ovaloid cells oriented perpendicular to the surface. This difference between the peripheral and central zones of the cartilage was particularly marked in lobular cartilage. Both septal and lobular cartilage have a high density of type II collagen but almost none of type I. The peripheral zones of the matrix showed a higher density of collagen than the central zone. This difference was more pronounced in septal than lobular cartilage. The high density of type II collagen in septal cartilage, particularly in the peripheral zones, suggests that one of the primary tasks of the septum is providing stiffness to the external nose. That idea is consistent with findings from our study of the perichondrial envelope.
Clearly, MS can be associated with a host of burdensome, and sometimes progressive, symptoms. The therapeutic options for MS have been greatly enhanced over the past decade and research into more effective therapies continues to prosper. Prospects for new and more effective remedies remain promising. On the other hand, it is very important for the caregiver to rely on evidence-based therapeutic interventions when treating a patient with MS. For relapsing/remitting disease, the platform therapies of interferon beta and glatiramer acetate remain state-of-the-art. For progressive disease, the skilled clinician must recognize that empiric therapies with uncertain efficacy may remain the only option. Clinicians should also exhibit a commitment to address the varied array of symptoms that may hamper a patient's daily functioning. As the seasoned caregiver assists the patient over the irregular terrain of symptoms and treatment options, it is essential to recognize both the limitations of therapy and the importance of focused attention to the specifics of a patient's situation. Oftentimes in MS, as in other chronic conditions, sweeping changes that transform disability are not possible. Rather incremental interventions that attend to the intimacies of a patient's symptoms and concerns can reap significant benefits. Care for the patient with MS can serve as a paradigm for meaningful collaboration between clinician and patient as they strive to achieve balance. In those times of therapeutic uncertainty a commitment to caring can have an enduring influence.

The regulation of uterine relaxation is poorly understood but research in myometrial tissue and other types of smooth muscle has defined a number of receptors, ion channels and regulatory proteins that are likely to be involved. Some of these proteins are substrates for protein kinases, especially cyclic nucleotide dependent kinases. More research is necessary to identify the key molecules involved in the maintenance of uterine quiescence in pregnancy. The use of tocolytics in preterm labour remains controversial; there is a need to identify better pharmacological targets to provoke safe and selective uterine relaxation and improve neonatal outcome.
Hypothalamic hamartoma (HH) is a congenital malformation of the hypothalamus that may be asymptomatic or manifest with precocious puberty or seizures. Gelastic seizures often begin early in life, even in the newborn period, being manifest by frequent attacks of inappropriate laughter resulting from seizure activity in the HH. The scalp electroencephalogram (EEG) is often normal in children with gelastic seizures, such that the diagnosis of epilepsy and the finding of a HH are often delayed. In a proportion of children with HH, there is an epileptic progression, in which complex partial seizures with frontal, temporal, and lateralized clinical features appear, usually with the appearance of focal slowing and epileptiform activity on the interictal EEG. Further progression may ensue with the appearance of tonic or atonic drop attacks, generalized tonic-clonic seizures, and epileptic spasms; rarely, infantile spasms may be the presenting seizure type. With the appearance of generalized seizures, the interictal EEG shows bilaterally synchronous and generalized epileptiform activity, often in abundance. The mechanism of this evolution is incompletely understood but neocortical seizure propagation and secondary epileptogenesis are believed to be important. Paralleling the development of the focal and generalized electroclinical manifestations in children with HH is usually slowing of development and the appearance of behavioral problems. Fortunately, many of these neurologic manifestations can be arrested, or reversed, with effective surgical treatment directed at the HH.
This paper presents an overview of the current knowledge of the neurophysiology and cellular pharmacology of sleep mechanisms. It is written from the perspective that recent years have seen a remarkable development of knowledge about sleep mechanisms, due to the capability of current cellular neurophysiological, pharmacological and molecular techniques to provide focused, detailed, and replicable studies that have enriched and informed the knowledge of sleep phenomenology and pathology derived from electroencephalographic (EEG) analysis. This chapter has a cellular and neurophysiological/neuropharmacological focus, with an emphasis on rapid eye movement (REM) sleep mechanisms and non-REM (NREM) sleep phenomena attributable to adenosine. The survey of neuronal and neurotransmitter-related brainstem mechanisms of REM includes monoamines, acetylcholine, the reticular formation, a new emphasis on GABAergic mechanisms and a discussion of the role of orexin/hypcretin in diurnal consolidation of REM sleep. The focus of the NREM sleep discussion is on the basal forebrain and adenosine as a mediator of homeostatic control. Control is through basal forebrain extracellular adenosine accumulation during wakefulness and inhibition of wakefulness-active neurons. Over longer periods of sleep loss, there is a second mechanism of homeostatic control through transcriptional modification. Adenosine acting at the A1 receptor produces an up-regulation of A1 receptors, which increases inhibition for a given level of adenosine, effectively increasing the gain of the sleep homeostat. This second mechanism likely occurs in widespread cortical areas as well as in the basal forebrain. Finally, the results of a new series of experimental paradigms in rodents to measure the neurocognitive effects of sleep loss and sleep interruption (modeling sleep apnea) provide animal model data congruent with those in humans.
Faces are represented in a more configural or holistic manner than other objects. Substantial evidence indicates that this representation results from face-specific mechanisms, but some have argued that it is produced by configural mechanisms that can be applied to many objects including words. The face-specific hypothesis predicts that non-face configural processes will often be normal in prosopagnosic subjects, whereas the domain-general configural hypothesis predicts they will be deficient on all configural tasks. Although the weight of the evidence favors the face-specific hypothesis, a recent study reopened this issue when it was found that three out of five developmental prosopagnosics showed a larger local processing bias than controls in a global-local task (i.e. a Navon task). To examine this issue more thoroughly we tested a significantly larger sample of prosopagnosics (14 participants) who had severe face memory and face perception deficits. In contrast to the previous report, the developmental prosopagnosics performed normally in the global-local task. Like controls, they showed a typical global advantage and typical global-to-local consistency effects. The results demonstrate that the configural processing required by the Navon task is dissociable from face configural processing.
Despite elegant behavioral descriptions of abnormalities for processing emotional facial expressions and biological motion in autism, identification of the neural mechanisms underlying these abnormalities remains a critical and largely unmet challenge. We compared brain activity with dynamic and static facial expressions in participants with and without high-functioning autism using event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and three classes of face stimuli-emotion morphs (fearful and angry), identity morphs and static images (fearful, angry and neutral). We observed reduced activity in the amygdala (AMY) and fusiform gyrus (FFG) to dynamic emotional expressions in people with autism. There was also a lack of modulation by dynamic compared with static emotional expressions of social brain regions including the AMY, posterior superior temporal sulcus (STS) region and FFG. We observed equivalent emotion and identity morph-evoked activity in participants with and without autism in a region corresponding to the expected location of the more generally motion-sensitive area MT or V5. We conclude that dysfunctions in key components of the human face processing system including the AMY, FFG and posterior STS region are present in individuals with high-functioning autism, and this dysfunction might contribute to the deficits in processing emotional facial expressions.
In this fMRI study, we investigated the development during adolescence of the neural network underlying thinking about intentions. A total of 19 adolescent participants (aged 12.1-18.1 years), and 11 adults (aged 22.4-37.8 years), were scanned using fMRI. A factorial design was employed with between-subjects factor age group and within-subjects factor causality (intentional or physical). In both adults and adolescents, answering questions about intentional causality vs physical causality activated the medial prefrontal cortex (PFC), superior temporal sulcus (STS), temporal poles and precuneus bordering with posterior cingulate cortex. In addition, there was a significant interaction between group and task in the medial PFC. During intentional relative to physical causality, adolescents activated part of the medial PFC more than did adults and adults activated part of the right STS more than did adolescents. These results suggest that the neural strategy for thinking about intentions changes between adolescence and adulthood. Although the same neural network is active, the relative roles of the different areas change, with activity moving from anterior (medial prefrontal) regions to posterior (temporal) regions with age.

Although flow cytometry is useful for studying neural lineage relationships, the method of dissociation can potentially bias cell analysis. We compared dissociation methods on viability and antigen recognition of mouse central nervous system (CNS) tissue and human CNS tumor tissue. Although nonenzymatic dissociation yielded poor viability, papain, purified trypsin replacement (TrypLE), and two purified collagenase/neutral protease cocktails (Liberase-1 or Accutase) each efficiently dissociated fetal tissue and postnatal tissue. Mouse cells dissociated with Liberase-1 were titrated with antibodies identifying distinct CNS precursor subtypes, including CD133, CD15, CD24, A2B5, and PSA-NCAM. Of the enzymes tested, papain most aggressively reduced antigenicity for mouse and human CD24. On human CNS tumor cells, CD133 expression remained highest after Liberase-1 and was lowest after papain or Accutase treatment; Liberase-1 digestion allowed magnetic sorting for CD133 without the need for an antigen re-expression recovery period. We conclude that Liberase-1 and TrypLE provide the best balance of dissociation efficiency, viability, and antigen retention. One implication of this comparison was confirmed by dissociating E13.5 mouse cortical cells and performing prospective isolation and clonal analysis on the basis of CD133/CD24 or CD15/CD24 expression. Highest fetal expression of CD133 or CD15 occurred in a CD24(hi) population that was enriched in neuronal progenitors. Multipotent cells expressed CD133 and CD15 at lower levels than did these neuronal progenitors. We conclude that CD133 and CD15 can be used similarly as selectable markers, but CD24 coexpression helps to distinguish fetal mouse multipotent stem cells from neuronal progenitors and postmitotic neurons. This particular discrimination is not possible after papain treatment. Disclosure of potential conflicts of interest is found at the end of this article.
Bone marrow (BM)-derived cells (BMCs) have demonstrated a myogenic tissue remodeling capacity. However, because the myoremodeling is limited to approximately 1%-3% of recipient muscle fibers in vivo, there is disagreement regarding the clinical relevance of BM for therapeutic application in myodegenerative conditions. This study sought to determine whether rare selectable cell surface markers (in particular, c-Kit) could be used to identify a BMC population with enhanced myoremodeling capacity. Dystrophic mdx muscle remodeling has been achieved using BMCs sorted by expression of stem cell antigen-1 (Sca-1). The inference that Sca-1 is also a selectable marker associated with myoremodeling capacity by muscle-derived cells prompted this study of relative myoremodeling contributions from BMCs (compared with muscle cells) on the basis of expression or absence of Sca-1. We show that myoremodeling activity does not differ in cells sorted solely on the basis of Sca-1 from either muscle or BM. In addition, further fractionation of BM to a more mesenchymal-like cell population with lineage markers and CD45 subsequently revealed a stronger selectability of myoremodeling capacity with c-Kit/Sca-1 (p &lt; .005) than with Sca-1 alone. These results suggest that c-Kit may provide a useful selectable marker that facilitates selection of cells with an augmented myoremodeling capacity derived from BM and possibly from other nonmuscle tissues. In turn, this may provide a new methodology for rapid isolation of myoremodeling capacities from muscle and nonmuscle tissues. Disclosure of potential conflicts of interest is found at the end of this article.




Most forms of neuronal plasticity are associated with induction of the transcription factor zif268 (egr1). Down-regulation of cdc20 (p55(cdc))--a regulatory protein for the anaphase-promoting complex, which controls access of specific substrates to the proteasome--was observed after transfection of a neuronal cell line with zif268. Treatment of cultured hippocampal neurones with NMDA, which elevates endogenous zif268 levels, also decreased cdc20 levels. Conversely, the levels of cdc20 were found to be increased in the cerebral cortex of mice with targeted deletion of the zif268 gene, when compared with wild-type controls. Our findings indicate that expression of the cdc20 gene is down-regulated by zif268 in neuronal cells, and provide new evidence that altered expression of proteasome-regulatory genes following zif268 induction may be a key component of long-lasting CNS plasticity.
Neuronal expression of immediate-early genes in response to a drug is a powerful screening tool for dissecting anatomical and functional brain circuitry affected by psychoactive compounds. We examined the effect of dopaminergic perturbation on two Homer 1 gene splice variants, Homer 1a and ania-3, in rat forebrain. Rats were treated with the &quot;typical&quot; antipsychotic haloperidol, the &quot;atypical&quot; quetiapine, or the selective dopamine transporter (DAT) inhibitor GBR 12909 in acute and chronic paradigms. Our results show that the high affinity dopamine D(2) receptor antagonist haloperidol strongly induces Homer 1 gene expression in the caudate-putamen, whereas quetiapine, a fast D2R dissociating antagonist, does not. This confirms that Homer 1 may be considered a predictor of &quot;atypicality&quot; of antipsychotic compounds in acute and also chronic regimens. Chronic treatment with GBR 12909 showed a strong induction in the parietal cortex, resembling the activation of &quot;sensitization&quot; circuitry by stimulants. Finally, we describe a differential spatial induction pattern of Homer 1 gene within the caudate-putamen by typical antipsychotics and DAT blockers, and propose a novel method to quantitate it.
Rats with neonatal ventral hippocampal lesions (NVHL) have been studied as a neurodevelopmental animal model of schizophrenia. NVHL rats exhibit postpubertal emergence of hyperresponsiveness to stress, suggesting increased mesolimbic dopamine (DA) activity. However, previous studies have not yielded clear evidence of this. Disturbances in the gamma-amino-butyric acid (GABA)-ergic system as well as the dopaminergic system are thought to be present in schizophrenia. To determine whether GABA(A) receptors play a role in the abnormal postpubertal behavior in NVHL rats, we compared changes in expression of mRNA of GABA(A) receptor subunits and in [(35)S] t-butylbicyclophosphorothionate ([(35)S] TBPS) binding in the prepubertal and postpubertal periods. Male pups were lesioned with ibotenic acid at postnatal day 7 (PD 7), and in situ hybridization and quantitative autoradiography were then performed. In NVHL rats, alpha1 subunit mRNA expression in prefrontal cortex was decreased at PD 35 (prepubertal period; by 21.7%), but increased at PD 56 (postpubertal period; by 21.4%) when compared with sham controls. beta2 subunit mRNA expression was increased in PFC in the postpubertal period (by 24.3%). beta3 subunit mRNA expression was increased in the caudate-putamen in the postpubertal period (by 37.2%). [(35)S] TBPS binding was increased in PFC only in the postpubertal period (by 17.7%). These findings suggest that dysfunction of the GABAergic system exists in NVHL rats. Furthermore, developmental and regional changes in GABA(A) receptor expression appear to occur in compensation for the attenuation of GABAergic system activity in NVHL rats.
Familiarity is a pervasive memory phenomenon that occurs in its most basic form when someone recognizes a repeated stimulus without recollecting other aspects of the requisite prior learning episode. Theoretical controversy currently abounds with respect to both the cognitive and neural characteristics of familiarity. Here, we show that the extant data, particularly brain-potential data, are insufficient for validating putative neural correlates of familiarity, and we outline strategies for making progress on this problem. Conceptual priming is an implicit-memory phenomenon that often occurs together with familiarity; experiments that conflate the two phenomena can be misleading. Avoiding this conflation is required to understand familiarity and to determine the extent to which the neurocognitive processes that support priming also drive familiarity.
Establishment of polarity is an essential process during proliferation, migration and differentiation in neurons, and the signaling pathways leading to polarization of the cytoskeleton are topics of intense research. One key marker for cell polarity is the centrosome, also known as the microtubule-organizing center. Recent discoveries have shown that the position of the centrosome is precisely regulated during neurogenesis, migration and differentiation, leading to the segregation of cell fate factors, efficient nucleokinesis and directed neurite outgrowth, respectively. Here, we review recent advances in the understanding of this interesting organelle and propose a model whereby centrosome position, determined by extracellular factors, directs multiple aspects of neuronal development.
The current experiments measured orientation discrimination thresholds in younger (mean age approximately 23 years) and older (mean age approximately 66 years) subjects. In Experiment 1, the contrast needed to discriminate Gabor patterns (0.75, 1.5, and 3c/deg) that differed in orientation by 12deg was measured for different levels of external noise. At all three spatial frequencies, discrimination thresholds were significantly higher in older than younger subjects when external noise was low, but not when external noise was high. In Experiment 2, discrimination thresholds were measured as a function of stimulus contrast by varying orientation while contrast was fixed. The resulting threshold-vs-contrast curves had very similar shapes in the two age groups, although the curve obtained from older subjects was shifted to slightly higher contrasts. At contrasts greater than 0.05, thresholds in both older and younger subjects were approximately constant at 0.5deg. The results from Experiments 1 and 2 suggest that age differences in orientation discrimination are due solely to differences in equivalent input noise. Using the same methods as Experiment 1, Experiment 3 measured thresholds in 6 younger observers as a function of external noise and retinal illuminance. Although reducing retinal illumination increased equivalent input noise, the effect was much smaller than the age difference found in Experiment 1. Therefore, it is unlikely that differences in orientation discrimination were due solely to differences in retinal illumination. Our findings are consistent with recent physiological experiments that have found elevated spontaneous activity and reduced orientation tuning on visual cortical neurons in senescent cats (Hua, T., Li, X., He, L., Zhou, Y., Wang, Y., Leventhal, A. G. (206). Functional degradation of visual cortical cells in old cats. Neurobiology Aging, 27(1), 155-162) and monkeys (Yu, S., Wang, Y., Li, X., Zhou, Y. &amp; Leventhal, A. G. (2006). Functional degradation of visual cortex in senescent rhesus monkeys. Neuroscience, 140(3), 1023-1029; Leventhal, A. G., Wang, Y., Pu, M., Zhou, Y. &amp; Ma. Y. (2003). GABA and its agonists improved visual cortical function in senescent monkeys. Science,300 (5620), 812-815).
Any object may contain at least two spatio-temporal components referred to as first- and second-order, respectively, defined by spatial-temporal luminance modulation or by contrast, texture or depth modulation. This study investigates form sensitivity of infants, normals, premature or strabismic. A two-alternative forced-choice preferential looking procedure was used in monocular and binocular condition. Maturation profile for both stimuli was similar in the control group. Strabismic infants showed a vertical offset in maturation, which affected the second-order more severely. The pre-term group showed a lag of second-order sensitivity. Our results underline differences between first- and second-order processing.
Orientation masking induces changes of discrimination thresholds and perceived orientation. Studies on alignment discrimination of Vernier stimuli concentrated on masking induced changes of discrimination thresholds, without considering possible changes of perceived orientation and/or alignment of the two-line segments. Measuring both parameters in an orientation discrimination task, we confirmed a standard repulsion effect between a single line target and a mask grating that co-varied with elevated orientation discrimination thresholds. Masking a Vernier stimulus in an alignment discrimination task, we observed a strong misperception of alignment that was accompanied with elevated alignment discrimination thresholds. Orientation masking on perceived orientation and alignment of a Vernier stimulus revealed orientation repulsion and attraction that depended on the spatio-orientation configuration of the superimposed stimuli. Control of task-dependent effects confirmed that our observed pattern of results was independent of attentional or cognitive demands.
Humans with naturally occurring amblyopia show deficits thought to involve mechanisms downstream of V1. These include excessive crowding, abnormal global image processing, spatial sampling and symmetry detection and undercounting. Several recent studies suggest that humans with naturally occurring amblyopia show deficits in global image segregation. The current experiments were designed to study figure-ground segregation in amblyopic observers with documented deficits in crowding, symmetry detection, spatial sampling and counting, using similar stimuli. Observers had to discriminate the orientation of a figure (an &quot;E&quot;-like pattern made up of 17 horizontal Gabor patches), embedded in a 7x7 array of Gabor patches. When the 32 &quot;background&quot; patches are vertical, the &quot;E&quot; pops-out, due to segregation by orientation and performance is perfect; however, if the background patches are all, or mostly horizontal, the &quot;E&quot; is camouflaged, and performance is random. Using a method of constant stimuli, we varied the number of &quot;background&quot; patches that were vertical and measured the probability of correct discrimination of the global orientation of the E (up/down/left/right). Surprisingly, amblyopes who showed strong crowding and deficits in symmetry detection and counting, perform normally or very nearly so in this segregation task. I therefore conclude that these deficits are not a consequence of abnormal segregation of figure from background.
A patient with schizophrenia may generate an action (whether manual or verbal), but not attribute the generation of that action to himself. We distinguish self-monitoring and attribution of agency, relating only the former to forward models and the mirror system. We suggest that alien hand experiences occur when an action progresses through hand control pathways with no record of disinhibition having been kept and is then seen but dismissed as external. Analogously, auditory pathways are active during verbal hallucinations and produce a subvocal verbal process, but since no record is kept of the words being created, they are treated as external. The subject then proceeds to confabulate, to provide an account for the agency.




Fluoro-Jade C, a new-developed fluorescent dye, has been successfully applied for identification of neuronal degeneration in the substantia nigra of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydro pyridine (MPTP)-treated mice in the present study. The animal model was first prepared by intraperitoneal injection of neurotoxicant MPTP that can specifically induce degeneration of dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra of C57BL/6 mice. Fluoro-Jade C was then utilized to stain the midbrain sections and semiquantitation analysis was carried out in comparison with controls. It revealed that Fluoro-Jade C-positive cells showed strong green color in neuronal profile and were observed in the substantia nigra of MPTP-treated mice whereas they were not detected in that of controls. The Fluoro-Jade C-positive cells were mostly shrunken or smaller-sized in their cell bodies in comparing with that of normal dopamine neurons of controls. In the midbrain of MPTP-treated mice, Fluoro-Jade C-positive neuronal cells were exclusively distributed in the substantia nigra pars compacta, but rarely seen in the ventral tegemental area where dopamine neurons were numerously distributed. Double-labeling experiments indicated that a population of Fluoro-Jade C-positive cells (23%) exhibited neuron-specific nuclear protein-immunoreactivity and none of them showed immunoreactivity to glial cell marker glial fibrillary acid protein. However, most of Fluoro-Jade C-positive degenerative neurons (98%) lost their immunoreactivity to dopaminergic marker tyrosine hydroxylase in the substantia nigra of MPTP-treated mice. Taken together with previous observations, this study has presented that Fluoro-Jade C can be sensitively and specifically utilized to identify the neuronal degeneration in the substantia nigra of rodent animals receiving MPTP insult.
Induction of status epilepticus (SE) with kainic acid results in a large reorganization of neuronal brain circuits, a phenomenon that has been studied primarily in the hippocampus. The neurotrophin BDNF, by acting through its receptor TrkB, has been implicated in such reorganization. In the present work we investigated, by Western blot and immunohistochemistry, whether regional changes of TrkB expression within the rat brain cortex are correlated with altered neuronal morphology and/or with apoptotic cell death. We found that the full-length TrkB protein decreased within the cortex when measured 24 h to 1 week after induction of SE. Analysis by immunohistochemistry revealed that TrkB staining diminished within layer V of the retrosplenial granular b (RSGb) and motor cortices, but not within the auditory cortex. In layer II/III, differential changes were also observed: TrkB decreased in the motor cortex, did not change within the RSGb but increased within the auditory cortex. Reduced TrkB was associated with dendritic atrophy and decreased spine density in pyramidal neurons within layer V of the RSGb. No correlation was observed between regional and cellular changes of TrkB protein and apoptosis, measured by the TdT-mediated dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) method. The global decrease of TrkB within the neocortex and the associated dendritic atrophy may counteract seizure propagation in the epileptic brain but may also underlie cognitive impairment after seizures.
The spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR) has been widely used as an animal model for attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (AD/HD), a developmental disorder that affects 3-5% of school-age children. Quantitative high-resolution (180 x 180 x 1500 microm) perfusion magnetic resonance imaging was performed to evaluate regional CBF in AD/HD rats (SHR, n=7) and control Wistar Kyoto rats (WKY, n=9) in the frontal cortex, motor cortex, sensory cortex, corpus callosum, hippocampus, thalamus, globus pallidus, caudoputamen and whole brain. The accuracy of repeated cerebral blood flow (CBF) measurements within animals in these brain regions ranged from 3% to 10% (7 repeated measures) and across animals ranged from 15% to 18% (n=7 rats), respectively, indicating highly accurate and reproducible CBF measurements. Regional CBF of the SHR were statistically different from those of the WKY rats in all structures analyzed (P&lt;0.05) except for the caudate putamen (P=0.09) and the globus pallidus (P=0.12). Whole brain CBF of the SHR (1.5+/-0.2 ml/g/min, mean+/-S.D.) was approximately 25% higher than that of the WKY rats (1.2+/-0.2 ml/g/min), likely due to the hypertensive nature of the AD/HD rat model. Following normalization to eliminate global CBF differences, CBF in the medial prefrontal cortex, a structure thought to be the equivalent of the human dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and widely implicated in AD/HD, was found to be higher in SHR compared to WKY rats (P&lt;0.05). The only other structure that was found to be statistically different after normalization is the corpus callosum (P&lt;0.05). Since resting cerebral blood flow is intricately coupled to resting neural activity, these results suggest that there was abnormal resting neural activity in the medial prefrontal cortex and the corpus callosum between the control and AD/HD animals, consistent with the hyperactivity, impulsivity, inattention, and other AD/HD-like behaviors in this animal model.
The existence of a specialized human cortical area for the processing of auditory motion is still a matter of debate. Initial functional imaging studies identified the planum temporale as being motion selective. Recent data contrasting spatially varying stationary stimuli with moving stimuli found no difference in the amount of activation between the two types of stimuli in the planum temporale. The present study re-examines this issue using an event-related paradigm. Ten subjects were scanned while listening to pairs of stimuli that were either both moving or both stationary. Consistent with the aforementioned study, we found no difference in the activation levels in the planum temporale when comparing motion and stationary conditions.
In psycholinguistics, the coactivation of lexical candidates by partial input has received a lot of attention. More recently, psychophysiological studies have shed more light on this issue and identified two possible time windows in which effects of coactivation of lexical candidates can be observed in event-related potentials (ERPs). However, these studies cannot be used to disentangle effects of coactivation from the inhibition of candidates that do not match input. A new visual gating paradigm is presented, in which stimuli were visually presented letter by letter, decreasing the size of the cohort of lexical candidates as more letters are presented. Stimuli were created such that at the letter position of interest, the amount of coactivated candidates was kept constant while manipulating the size of the reduction of the cohort. The resulting ERPs indicate two components (frontal P2, and a left temporal late negativity) that scaled with cohort-size reduction. These results show that a visual gating paradigm can be used to disentangle coactivation of lexical candidates from inhibition of non-matching items, and that these processes are closely related to each other in time.
We studied the cognitive performance of rats with colchicine-induced lesions of the hippocampal dentate gyrus (DG) on a range of spatial, non-spatial and mixed spatial/procedural tasks. Rats were assigned to three experimental groups receiving large colchicine lesions (7 microg per hippocampus), small colchicine lesions (1.75 microg per hippocampus) or sham lesions. Stereological estimates of cell density indicated that the colchicine treatments induced dose-dependent damage to the DG, while sparing in large part other hippocampal subfields. Remarkably, the behavioural results showed that the colchicine lesions did not affect the performance of rats in an object discrimination task, in an object-place associative task in which a familiar object was displaced from a given position nor in a spontaneous spatial discrimination task performed in the T-maze. However, rats in both lesion groups were severely impaired in a reinforced non-matching-to-position working memory task conducted in the T-maze. Importantly, performance in the working memory task correlated strongly with cell density in the DG but not with cell density in the CA1 and CA3 areas. Only rats with large-lesions showed a transient deficit in a reinforced rule-based conditional discrimination task. These data demonstrated that rats with selective lesions of the DG readily acquire and retain neural representations relative to objects and places but are specifically impaired in their ability to update rapidly and flexibly spatial information that is essential to guide goal-directed actions.
The 100th anniversary of the shared first Nobel prize in neuroscience by Camillo Golgi and Ramon y Cajal invites reappraisal of the merits of the arguments adduced by these two combative scientists in the light of contemporary knowledge. Guided by cogent reasons for reluctance in accepting the inviolable polarity principle of the neuron doctrine and concern for explaining cerebral recovery of function, Golgi joined the 'reticularists' of his generation. Modern observations of axo-axonic and dendro-dendritic synapses, gap-junction interconnections, rules for the direction and mode of analog or impulse conduction, the myriad diversity of ion channels and gating principles and the complexities of synaptic plasticity have eclipsed the polarized neuron doctrine explanations of reflex physiology and the 'fixed and immutable' connections successfully championed by Cajal. Without violating the cell theory, expanded modes of neuronal and glial communication have encompassed reticularist notions and provided insight into the long-term changes underlying synaptic and extra-synaptic neural patterns. Both laureates espoused operative principles that have survived in different modes and distinctive temporal domains. Together, they reflect the roots of our contemporary understanding of neural interaction.
Aging is accompanied by an alteration of spatial memory, which has been related to an alteration in hippocampal plasticity. Within the dentate gyrus, new neurons are generated throughout the entire life of an individual. This neurogenesis seems to play a role in hippocampal-mediated learning and learning-induced changes in neurogenesis have been proposed to be involved in memory. However, in aged rats, little is known on the influence of learning on the early development of the adult-born neurons and on the possible involvement of learning-induced changes in neurogenesis in age-related memory deficits. To address this issue, we took advantage of the existence of spontaneous individual differences for performances observed in aged subjects in the water maze. In this task, learning can be divided into two phases, an early phase during which performances quickly improve, and a late phase during which asymptotic levels of performances are reached. We show that the influence of spatial learning on the survival of the newly born cells depends on their birth date and the memory abilities of the aged rats. In aged rats with preserved spatial memory, learning increases the survival of cells generated before learning whereas it decreases survival of cells produced during the early phase of learning. These results highlight the importance of learning-induced changes in adult-born cell survival in memory. Furthermore, they provide new insights on the possible neural mechanisms of aging of cognitive functions and show that an alteration to the steps leading to neurogenesis may be involved in the determination of individual memory abilities.
The subthalamic nucleus (STN) is part of the cortico-basal ganglia (BG)-thalamocortical circuit, whereas the ventral lateral nucleus of the thalamus (VL) is a relay nucleus in the cerebello-dentato-thalamocortical (CTC) pathway. Both pathways have been implicated in movement preparation. We compared the involvement of the STN and VL in movement preparation in humans by recording local field potentials (LFPs) from seven patients with Parkinson's disease with deep-brain stimulation (DBS) electrodes in the STN and five patients with tremor and electrodes in VL. LFPs were recorded from DBS electrodes and scalp electrodes simultaneously while the patients performed self-paced and externally cued (ready, go/no-go) movements. For the self-paced movement, a premovement-related potential was observed in all patients from scalp, STN (phase reversal, five of six patients), and VL (phase reversal, five of five patients) electrodes. The onset times of the potentials were similar in the cortex, STN, and VL, ranging from 1.5 to 2 s before electromyogram onset. For the externally cued movement, an expectancy potential was observed in all patients in cortical and STN electrodes (phase reversal, six of six patients). The expectancy potential was recorded from the thalamic electrodes in four of five patients. However, phase reversal occurred only in one case, and magnetic resonance imaging showed that this contact was outside the VL. The cortico-BG-thalamocortical circuit is involved in the preparation of both self-paced and externally cued movements. The CTC pathway is involved in the preparation of self-paced but not externally cued movements, although the pathway may still be involved in the execution of these movements.
The emerging literature implicates a role for glia/cytokines in persistent pain. However, the mechanisms by which these non-neural elements contribute to CNS activity-dependent plasticity and pain are unclear. Using a trigeminal model of inflammatory hyperalgesia, here we provide evidence that demonstrates a mechanism by which glia interact with neurons, leading to activity-dependent plasticity and hyperalgesia. In response to masseter inflammation, there was an upregulation of glial fibrillary acidic proteins (GFAPs), a marker of astroglia, and interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), a prototype proinflammatory cytokine, in the region of the trigeminal nucleus specifically related to the processing of deep orofacial input. The activated astroglia exhibited hypertrophy and an increased level of connexin 43, an astroglial gap junction protein. The upregulated IL-1beta was selectively localized to astrocytes but not to microglia and neurons. Local anesthesia of the masseter nerve prevented the increase in GFAP and IL-1beta after inflammation, and substance P, a prototype neurotransmitter of primary afferents, induced similar increases in GFAP and IL-1beta, which was blocked by a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester. Injection of IL-1 receptor antagonist and fluorocitrate, a glial inhibitor, attenuated hyperalgesia and NMDA receptor phosphorylation after inflammation. In vitro application of IL-1beta induced NR1 phosphorylation, which was blocked by an IL-1 receptor antagonist, a PKC inhibitor (chelerythrine), an IP3 receptor inhibitor (2-aminoethoxydiphenylborate), and inhibitors of phospholipase C [1-[6-((17b-3-methoxyestra-1,3,5(10)-trien-17-yl)amino)hexyl]-1H-pyrrole-2,5-dione] and phospholipase A2 (arachidonyltrifluoromethyl ketone). These findings provide evidence of astroglial activation by tissue injury, concomitant IL-1beta induction, and the coupling of NMDA receptor phosphorylation through IL-1 receptor signaling.
The intermediate filament nestin is localized postsynaptically at rodent neuromuscular junctions. The protein forms a filamentous network beneath and between the synaptic gutters, surrounds myofiber nuclei, and is associated with Z-discs adjacent to the junction. In situ hybridization shows that nestin mRNA is synthesized selectively by synaptic myonuclei. Although weak immunoreactivity is present in myelinating Schwann cells that wrap the preterminal axon, nestin is not detected in the terminal Schwann cells (tSCs) that cover the nerve terminal branches. However, after denervation of muscle, nestin is upregulated in tSCs and in SCs within the nerve distal to the lesion site. In contrast, immunoreactivity is strongly downregulated in the muscle fiber. Transgenic mice in which the nestin neural enhancer drives expression of a green fluorescent protein (GFP) reporter show that the regulation in SCs is transcriptional. However, the postsynaptic expression occurs through enhancer elements distinct from those responsible for regulation in SCs. Application of botulinum toxin shows that the upregulation in tSCs and the loss of immunoreactivity in muscle fibers occurs with blockade of transmitter release. Extrinsic stimulation of denervated muscle maintains the postsynaptic expression of nestin but does not affect the upregulation in SCs. Thus, a nestin-containing cytoskeleton is promoted in the postsynaptic muscle fiber by nerve-evoked muscle activity but suppressed in tSCs by transmitter release. Nestin antibodies and GFP driven by nestin promoter elements serve as excellent markers for the reactive state of SCs. Vital imaging of GFP shows that SCs grow a dynamic set of processes after denervation.
We examined the postnatal consequences of removing Hedgehog signaling within the adult stem cell niche. Although at birth the subventricular zone appears normal in mice lacking Hedgehog signaling, by postnatal day 8 it is greatly impaired, and cell death is increased. In addition, both the quiescent B stem cell population and transit-amplifying C cells become depleted postnatally. In contrast, the A cell population expands precociously, mostly fails to migrate to the olfactory bulbs, and is ultimately also depleted by postnatal day 30. In vitro and in vivo analyses demonstrate that this failure in migration is a result of nonautonomous signaling, possibly caused by a reduction in Slit1 ligand in A cells. These results suggest that Hedgehog signaling is required for the maintenance of the B and C cell populations and indirectly for the migration of the neurons that are generated from the adult stem cell niche.
Early forebrain development is characterized by extensive proliferation of neural precursors coupled with complex structural transformations; however, little is known regarding the mechanisms by which these processes are integrated. Here, we show that deficiency of the cell cycle regulatory protein, E2F4, results in the loss of ventral telencephalic structures and impaired self-renewal of neural precursor cells. The mechanism underlying aberrant ventral patterning lies in a dramatic loss of Sonic hedgehog (Shh) expression specifically in this region. The E2F4-deficient phenotype can be recapitulated by interbreeding mice heterozygous for E2F4 with those lacking one allele of Shh, suggesting a genetic interaction between these pathways. Treatment of E2F4-deficient cells with a Hh agonist rescues stem cell self-renewal and cells expressing the homeodomain proteins that specify the ventral telencephalic structures. Finally, we show that E2F4 deficiency results in impaired activity of Shh forebrain-specific enhancers. In conclusion, these studies establish a novel requirement for the cell cycle regulatory protein, E2F4, in the development of the ventral telencephalon.
Clinical trials involving intrastriatal transplants of human embryonic mesencephalic tissue have provided proof-of-principle that nigral dopamine (DA) neurons can survive and functionally integrate into the host neural circuitry. However, the degree of graft-induced symptomatic relief differs significantly between the patients. This variability has led to investigations aimed at identifying factors that could affect the clinical outcome. The extent and pattern of dopaminergic denervation in the brain may be one of the major determinants of the functional outcome after intrastriatal DA cell grafts. Here, we report that in animals subjected to an intrastriatal 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of the striatal dopaminergic afferent, the integrity of the host dopaminergic innervation outside the areas innervated by the graft is critical for optimal function of DA neurons placed in the striatum. Established graft-induced functional recovery, as assessed in the stepping and cylinder tests, was compromised in animals in which the dopaminergic lesion was extended to include also the medial and ventral striatum as well as the cortical and limbic DA projections. Poor clinical outcome after transplantation may, thus, at least in part, be caused by dopaminergic denervation in areas outside the graft-innervated territories, and similarly beneficial effects initially observed in patients may regress if the degeneration of the host extrastriatal DA projection systems proceeds with advancing disease. This would have two implications: first, patients with advanced disease involving the ventral striatum and/or nonstriatal DA projections would be unlikely to respond well to intrastriatal DA grafts and, second, to retain the full benefit of the grafts, progression of the disease should be avoided by, for example, combining cell therapy with a neuroprotective approach.
The cholinergic control over inflammatory reactions calls for deciphering the corresponding protein partners. An example is blood-nerve barrier disruption allowing penetration of inflammatory factors, which is notably involved in various neuropathies due to yet unknown molecular mechanism(s). In rats, lipopolysaccharide (LPS) administration followed by intra-neural (i.n.) saline injection inducing a focal blood-nerve disruption leads to systemic inflammatory reaction accompanied by transient conduction impairment in the sciatic nerve. Here, we provide evidence compatible with the hypothesis that ARP, the naturally cleavable C-terminal peptide of the stress-induced &quot;readthrough&quot; acetylcholinesterase variant (AChE-R), is causally involved in the emergence of this LPS-induced conduction impairment. Intra-neural injection to nave rats of conditioned medium from cultured splenocytes exposed to LPS in vitro (reactive splenocyte medium) induced a transient conduction impairment that was accompanied by facilitated accumulation of cleaved intra-neural ARP. Protein kinase C (PKC) betaII, known to interact with ARP, was significantly elevated in the LPS-exposed sciatic nerve preparations. Moreover, direct i.n. injection of synthetic ARP30, bearing the mouse AChE-R C-terminal sequence, similarly induced PKCbetaII expression and conduction impairment. The induction of neural conduction impairment by ARP, possibly through its interaction with PKCbetaII, suggests a role for AChE-R expression in inflammation-associated neuropathies.

A systematic clinical neuroscience protocol is described for the use to examine the trigemino-cardiac reflex (TCR) response in humans. Target neurosurgical conditions are operations that require manipulations around the peripheral and central part of the trigeminal nerve and its branches, e.g. the cerebellopontine angle or the sellar region. To assess the hemodynamic and cardiac responses of patients after TCR initiation, anesthetic monitoring has been applied. The TCR is defined as a drop of more than 20% of the heart rate and the mean arterial blood pressure compared with the baseline values before the stimulus and coinciding with the surgical manipulation at or around any branches of the trigeminal nerve. By help of illustrative cases, we present for the first time preliminary results regarding the differentiation of the TCR in a central and a peripheral induction during transsphenoidal surgery of pituitary adenomas. Based on these results, we can conclude that we have developed a battery of preoperative examination procedures based on event-related diagnostics that was useful to differentiate different subgroups of TCR during transsphenoidal surgery. The presented protocol can be performed directly pre-, intra- and postoperatively and applied for assessment of TCR even in patients with known risk factors.
The suprachiasmatic nucleus, an essential diencephalic component of the circadian timing system, plays a role in the generation and modulation of behavioral and neuroendocrine rhythms in mammals. Its cytoarchitecture, neurochemical and hodological characteristics have been investigated in various mammalian species, particularly in rodents. In most species, two subdivisions, based on these aspects and considered to reflect functional specialization within the nucleus, can be recognized. Many studies reveal a typical dense innervation by serotonergic fibers in this nucleus, mainly in the ventromedial area, overlapping the retinal afferents. However, a different pattern occurs in certain animals, which lead us to investigate the distribution of serotonergic afferents in the suprachiasmatic nucleus of the Capuchin monkey, Cebus apella, compared to the marmoset, Callithrix jacchus, and two Rattus norvegicus lines (Long Evans and Wistar), and to reported findings for other mammalian species. Our morphometric data show the volume and length of the suprachiasmatic nucleus along the rostrocaudal axis to be greatest in C. apella&gt;C. jacchus&gt;Long Evans&gt; or =Wistar rats, in agreement with their body sizes. In C. apella, however, the serotonergic terminals occupy only some 10% of the nucleus' area, less than the 25% seen in the marmoset and rats. The distribution of the serotonergic fibers in C. apella does not follow the characteristic ventral organization pattern seen in the rodents. These findings raise questions concerning the intrinsic organization of the nucleus, as well as regarding the functional relationship between serotonergic input and retinal afferents in this diurnal species.
We have purified BoiTx1, the first toxin from the venom of the Israeli scorpion, Buthus occitanus israelis, and studied its activity and genomic organization. BoiTx1 is a 37 amino acid-long peptide contained six conserved cysteines, and is classified as an alpha-KTx3.10 toxin. The pharmacological effects of BoiTx1 were studied on various cloned K(+) channels expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes. BoiTx1 inhibited currents through Drosophila Shaker channels with an IC(50) value of 3.5+/-0.5nM, yet had much lesser effect on its mammalian orthologs. Thus, BoiTx1 is the first member of the alpha-KTx3 family that preferentially affects insect potassium channels.
Parkinson's disease is the most common movement disorder characterized by dopaminergic dysfunction and degeneration. Loss-of-function mutations in the DJ-1 gene have been linked to autosomal recessive forms of early-onset familial Parkinson's disease. DJ-1 is thought to play roles in protection of cells against oxidative stress and in maintenance of the normal dopaminergic function in the nigrostriatal pathway. Here we investigate the consequence of both DJ-1 inactivation and aging in mice. We found that DJ-1-/- mice at the age of 24-27 months have normal numbers of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra and normal levels of dopamine and its major metabolites in the striatum. The number of noradrenergic neurons in the locus coeruleus is also unchanged in DJ-1-/- mice. Moreover, there is no accumulation of oxidative damage or inclusion bodies in aged DJ-1-/- brains. Together, these results indicate that loss of DJ-1 function alone is insufficient to cause nigral degeneration and oxidative damage in the life span of mice.
Activated T cells, particularly those of the T-helper (Th) 1 subset, have the capacity to kill neurons. Strategies for preventing such damage may include deviation of activated T cells into the Th2 subset (e.g., via use of glatiramer acetate), alteration of functional properties of Th1 cells (e.g., through use of interferon [INF]-beta or IV immunoglobulin), and inhibition of activated cell migration into the CNS (e.g., by employing INF-beta or natalizumab). Matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) also causes neuron death in neurotoxicity models, and examination of medications with MMP inhibitory activity indicates that minocycline is capable of preventing such damage. Minocycline also has other properties relevant to conferring neuroprotection, such as inhibition of microglial activity and apoptosis pathways. In a small pilot study in patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis, minocycline treatment produced favorable outcomes in terms of gadolinium-enhancing lesions and clinical course. Further studies are needed to establish whether experimental neuroprotection strategies involving these mechanisms may be translated into preventing neurodegeneration in multiple sclerosis.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic inflammatory demyelinating disease of the CNS. Approximately 2 million people worldwide have MS, with females outnumbering males 2:1. Because of its high prevalence, MS is the leading cause of nontraumatic neurologic disability in young adults in the United States and Europe. Axon loss is the major cause of irreversible disability in patients with MS. Axon damage, including transection of the axon, begins early in MS and correlates with inflammatory activity. Several mechanisms lead to axon loss, including inflammatory secretions, loss of myelin-derived support, disruption of axonal ion concentrations, energy failure, and Ca(2+) accumulation. Therapeutic interventions directed toward each of these mechanisms need to be tested for their efficacy in enhancing axon survival and, ultimately, their ability to delay progression of neurologic disability in patients with MS.



Metabolic syndrome is characterized by obesity, elevated blood pressure (BP), insulin resistance, and hypercholesterolemia. Recently an animal model of this disorder has been proposed in rats selectively bred based on their performance on a treadmill-running task. Accordingly, low capacity runner (LCR) rats exhibited all of the diagnostic criteria for metabolic syndrome, including elevated BP, as compared to their high capacity runner (HCR) counterparts [U. Wislff, S.M. Najjar, O. Ellingsen, P.M. Haram, S. Swoap, Q. Al-Share, M. Fernstrom, K. Rezaei, S.J. Lee, L.G. Koch, S.L. Britton, Cardiovascular risk factors emerge after artificial selection for low aerobic capacity, Science 307 (2005) 418-420]. Previous studies have highlighted the importance of GABAergic neurotransmission in the medullary cardiovascular-regulatory areas in the central control of BP. Thus, we hypothesized a dysregulation in GABAergic transmission in the medullary cardiovascular-regulatory nuclei of LCR rats. To begin testing this hypothesis we carried out experiments examining expression of the GABA synthetic enzymes, GAD65 and GAD67, mRNAs in the two rat strains via radioactive in situ hybridization. Our results showed GAD65 and GAD67 mRNAs were widely expressed throughout the brainstem; quantification revealed increased GAD65 mRNA expression in LCR animals in the caudal nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) and rostral ventrolateral medulla (VLM) as compared to HCR rats. Conversely, no differences in the expression of GAD67 were detected in these regions. These data are consistent with the notion of altered GABAergic neurotransmission in the NTS and VLM in metabolic syndrome, and point to the importance of these regions in cardiovascular regulation.
The posteromedial bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BSTMPM) is an important component of the extended amygdala that is sexually dimorphic in rats. We examined the effect of the testicular feminization mutation (tfm), which renders the androgen receptor (AR) dysfunctional, on BSTMPM volume and average somal area. As expected, we found a significant sex difference in the volume of the BSTMPM, with females having a smaller BSTMPM than wild type males. Size of the BSTMPM in tfm males was also significantly smaller than that of wildtype males, although this difference was significant only on the left side. We found no sex difference in BSTMPM somal areas. These findings support the role of androgen receptors in the sexual differentiation of this nucleus.
The neuropsychological basis of attentional set-shifting, task-set switching and stop-signal inhibition is reviewed through comparative studies of humans and experimental animals. Using human functional neuroimaging, plus neuropsychological investigation of patients with frontal damage quantified by structural magnetic resonance imaging, and through parallels with effects of specific lesions of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and striatum in rats and marmosets, it is possible to define both distinct and overlapping loci for tasks such as extra-dimensional shifting and reversal learning, stop-signal reaction time and task-set switching. Notably, most of the paradigms implicate a locus in the right PFC, specifically the right inferior frontal gyrus, possibly associated with processes of response inhibition. The neurochemical modulation of fronto-striatal circuitry in parallel with effects on task performance has been investigated using specific neuropharmacological agents in animals and by human psychopharmacological investigations, sometimes in conjunction with functional imaging. Evidence is provided for double dissociations of effects of manipulations of prefrontal cortical catecholamine and indoleamine (5-HT) systems that have considerable implications in the treatment of disorders such as Parkinson's disease, attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder and depression, as well as in theoretical notions of how 'fronto-executive' functions are subject to state-dependent influences, probably related to stress, arousal and motivation.
We propose that rostral prefrontal cortex (PFC; approximating area 10) supports a cognitive system that facilitates either stimulus-oriented (SO) or stimulus-independent (SI) attending. SO attending is the behaviour required to concentrate on current sensory input, whereas SI attending is the mental processing that accompanies self-generated or self-maintained thought. Regions of medial area 10 support processes related to the former, whilst areas of lateral area 10 support processes that enable the latter. Three lines of evidence for this 'gateway hypothesis' are presented. First, we demonstrate the predicted patterns of activation in area 10 during the performance of new tests designed to stress the hypothetical function. Second, we demonstrate area 10 activations during the performance of established functions (prospective memory, context memory), which should hypothetically involve the proposed attentional system. Third, we examine predictions about behaviour-activation patterns within rostral PFC that follow from the hypothesis. We show with meta-analysis of neuroimaging investigations that these predictions are supported across a wide variety of tasks, thus establishing a general principle for functional imaging studies of this large brain region. We then show that while the gateway hypothesis accommodates a large range of findings relating to the functional organization of area 10 along a medial-lateral dimension, there are further principles relating to other dimensions and functions. In particular, there is a functional dissociation between the anterior medial area 10, which supports processes required for SO attending, and the caudal medial area 10, which supports processes relating to mentalizing.
Working memory refers to the temporary retention of information that was just experienced or just retrieved from long-term memory but no longer exists in the external environment. These internal representations are short-lived, but can be stored for longer periods of time through active maintenance or rehearsal strategies, and can be subjected to various operations that manipulate the information in such a way that makes it useful for goal-directed behaviour. Empirical studies of working memory using neuroscientific techniques, such as neuronal recordings in monkeys or functional neuroimaging in humans, have advanced our knowledge of the underlying neural mechanisms of working memory. This rich dataset can be reconciled with behavioural findings derived from investigating the cognitive mechanisms underlying working memory. In this paper, I review the progress that has been made towards this effort by illustrating how investigations of the neural mechanisms underlying working memory can be influenced by cognitive models and, in turn, how cognitive models can be shaped and modified by neuroscientific data. One conclusion that arises from this research is that working memory can be viewed as neither a unitary nor a dedicated system. A network of brain regions, including the prefrontal cortex (PFC), is critical for the active maintenance of internal representations that are necessary for goal-directed behaviour. Thus, working memory is not localized to a single brain region but probably is an emergent property of the functional interactions between the PFC and the rest of the brain.

The immediacy and directness of our subjective visual experience belies the complexity of the neural mechanisms involved, which remain incompletely understood. This review focuses on how the subjective contents of human visual awareness are encoded in neural activity. Empirical evidence to date suggests that no single brain area is both necessary and sufficient for consciousness. Instead, necessary and sufficient conditions appear to involve both activation of a distributed representation of the visual scene in primary visual cortex and ventral visual areas, plus parietal and frontal activity. The key empirical focus is now on characterizing qualitative differences in the type of neural activity in these areas underlying conscious and unconscious processing. To this end, recent progress in developing novel approaches to accurately decoding the contents of consciousness from brief samples of neural activity show great promise.
Episodic memory is widely conceived as a fundamentally constructive, rather than reproductive, process that is prone to various kinds of errors and illusions. With a view towards examining the functions served by a constructive episodic memory system, we consider recent neuropsychological and neuroimaging studies indicating that some types of memory distortions reflect the operation of adaptive processes. An important function of a constructive episodic memory is to allow individuals to simulate or imagine future episodes, happenings and scenarios. Since the future is not an exact repetition of the past, simulation of future episodes requires a system that can draw on the past in a manner that flexibly extracts and recombines elements of previous experiences. Consistent with this constructive episodic simulation hypothesis, we consider cognitive, neuropsychological and neuroimaging evidence showing that there is considerable overlap in the psychological and neural processes involved in remembering the past and imagining the future.
Visual processing is not determined solely by retinal inputs. Attentional modulation can arise when the internal attentional state (current task) of the observer alters visual processing of the same stimuli. This can influence visual cortex, boosting neural responses to an attended stimulus. Emotional modulation can also arise, when affective properties (emotional significance) of stimuli, rather than their strictly visual properties, influence processing. This too can boost responses in visual cortex, as for fear-associated stimuli. Both attentional and emotional modulation of visual processing may reflect distant influences upon visual cortex, exerted by brain structures outside the visual system per se. Hence, these modulations may provide windows onto causal interactions between distant but interconnected brain regions. We review recent evidence, noting both similarities and differences between attentional and emotional modulation. Both can affect visual cortex, but can reflect influences from different regions, such as fronto-parietal circuits versus the amygdala. Recent work on this has developed new approaches for studying causal influences between human brain regions that may be useful in other cognitive domains. The new methods include application of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and electroencephalography (EEG) measures in brain-damaged patients to study distant functional impacts of their focal lesions, and use of transcranial magnetic stimulation concurrently with fMRI or EEG in the normal brain. Cognitive neuroscience is now moving beyond considering the putative functions of particular brain regions, as if each operated in isolation, to consider, instead, how distinct brain regions (such as visual cortex, parietal or frontal regions, or amygdala) may mutually influence each other in a causal manner.
Reinforcement learning models now provide principled guides for a wide range of reward learning experiments in animals and humans. One key learning (error) signal in these models is experiential and reports ongoing temporal differences between expected and experienced reward. However, these same abstract learning models also accommodate the existence of another class of learning signal that takes the form of a fictive error encoding ongoing differences between experienced returns and returns that &quot;could-have-been-experienced&quot; if decisions had been different. These observations suggest the hypothesis that, for all real-world learning tasks, one should expect the presence of both experiential and fictive learning signals. Motivated by this possibility, we used a sequential investment game and fMRI to probe ongoing brain responses to both experiential and fictive learning signals generated throughout the game. Using a large cohort of subjects (n = 54), we report that fictive learning signals strongly predict changes in subjects' investment behavior and correlate with fMRI signals measured in dopaminoceptive structures known to be involved in valuation and choice.
Neurodegeneration, a result of multiple dysregulatory events, is a lengthy multistep process manifested by accrual of mutant variants and abnormal expression, posttranslational modification, and processing of certain proteins. Accumulation of these dysregulated processes requires a mechanism that maintains their functional stability and allows the evolution of the neurodegenerative phenotype. In malignant cells, the capacity to buffer transformation has been attributed to heat-shock protein 90 (Hsp90). Although normal proteins seem to require limited assistance from the chaperone, their aberrant counterparts seem to be highly dependent on Hsp90. Whereas enhanced Hsp90 affinity for mutated or functionally deregulated client proteins has been observed for several oncoproteins, it is unknown whether Hsp90 plays a similar role for neuronal proteins and thus maintains and facilitates the transformed phenotype in neurodegenerative diseases. Tauopathies are neurodegenerative diseases characterized by aberrant phosphorylation and/or expression of Tau protein, leading to a time-dependent accumulation of Tau aggregates and subsequent neuronal death. Here, we show that the stability of p35, a neuronal protein that activates cyclin-dependent protein kinase 5 through complex formation leading to aberrant Tau phosphorylation, and that of mutant but not WT Tau protein is maintained in tauopathies by Hsp90. Inhibition of Hsp90 in cellular and mouse models of tauopathies leads to a reduction of the pathogenic activity of these proteins and results in elimination of aggregated Tau. The results identify important roles played by Hsp90 in maintaining and facilitating the degenerative phenotype in these diseases and provide a common principle governing cancer and neurodegenerative diseases.
Sleep deprivation (SD) impairs short-term memory, but it is unclear whether this is because of reduced storage capacity or processes contributing to appropriate information encoding. We evaluated 30 individuals twice, once after a night of normal sleep and again after 24 h of SD. In each session, we evaluated visual memory capacity by presenting arrays of one to eight colored squares. Additionally, we measured cortical responses to varying visual array sizes without engaging memory. The magnitude of intraparietal sulcus activation and memory capacity after normal sleep were highly correlated. SD elicited a pattern of activation in both tasks, indicating that deficits in visual processing and visual attention accompany and could account for loss of short-term memory capacity. Additionally, a comparison between better and poorer performers showed that preservation of precuneus and temporoparietal junction deactivation with increasing memory load corresponds to less performance decline when one is sleep-deprived.
Mulberry leaf has been reported to possess medicinal properties, including hypoglycemic, hypotensive and diuretic effects. Little is known, however, about its medicinal properties for central nervous system disorders, including Alzheimer's disease. Accumulating evidence suggests that amyloid beta-peptide (1-42) plays an important role in the etiology of Alzheimer's disease. Here we show that mulberry leaf extract inhibits the amyloid beta-peptide (1-42) fibril formation by both the thioflavin T fluorescence assay and atomic force microscopy. Furthermore, mulberry leaf extract protected hippocampal neurons against amyloid beta-peptide (1-42)-induced cell death in a concentration-dependent manner. These results suggest that mulberry leaf extract provides a viable treatment for Alzheimer's disease through the inhibition of amyloid beta-peptide (1-42) fibril formation and attenuation of amyloid beta-peptide (1-42)-induced neurotoxicity.
Benzodiazepines are known to act by enhancing the effect of gamma-aminobutyric acid-A receptor agonists. Positive modulation by benzodiazepines is typically ascribed to upregulation of agonist binding affinity but their effect on gamma-aminobutyric acid-A receptor gating remain unclear. In this work, we have used the ultrafast application system to examine the impact of flurazepam and zolpidem on recombinant alpha1beta2gamma2 gamma-aminobutyric acid-A receptors. As expected, both drugs strongly enhanced currents evoked by low [gamma-aminobutyric acid]. These compounds, however, also affected currents elicited by saturating agonist concentration. In particular, flurazepam and zolpidem reduced current amplitudes and slowed down the recovery process in paired-pulse experiments. Moreover, flurazepam accelerated the current rise time and zolpidem enhanced the rate and extent of desensitization. We propose that flurazepam and zolpidem modulate gamma-aminobutyric acid-A receptors by strong enhancement of agonist binding with a superimposed limited effect on the receptor gating.
Long-term memory of cocaine-associated context was established by conditioned place preference learning. After 1 week, exposure to context in the absence of cocaine (memory retrieval) was paired with one of the following treatments: saline, scopolamine (muscarinic acetylcholine receptor antagonist), dizocilpine (MK-801; noncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist) or D-cycloserine (partial N-methyl-D-aspartate agonist). In subsequent conditioned place preference tests, place preference was suppressed in the drug-treated groups but not saline-treated groups. Results suggest that the amnesic agents, scopolamine and MK-801, disrupted reconsolidation of cocaine-associated contextual memory. In contrast, the mnemonic agent D-cycloserine might have facilitated extinction learning during context exposure in the absence of cocaine. Challenge administration of cocaine reinstated place preference in all groups except the MK-801 group, suggesting that suppression of conditioned response may or may not suppress memory evoked by drug-context reexposure.
This study was designed to resolve whether experimental placebo responses are due to either increased compliance or habituation. We stimulated both forearms and recorded laser-evoked potentials from 18 healthy volunteers treated on one arm with a sham analgesic cream and an inactive cream on the other (treatment group), and 13 volunteers with an inactive cream on both arms (controls). The treatment group showed a significant reduction in the pain ratings and laser-evoked potentials with both the sham and inactive creams. The control group showed no evidence of habituation to the laser stimulus. The results indicate that the reduction in pain during experimental placebo response is unlikely to be due to sensory habituation or compliance with the experimental instructions.
It is not clear whether attention is necessary or not for consciousness. We studied the relationship between attention and consciousness by tracking their electrophysiological correlates. The participants attended to visual targets, ignored nontargets in the prespecified visual field and ignored all stimuli in the opposite field. Visual consciousness was varied by masking. Our results showed that the earliest electrophysiological correlate of consciousness emerged independent of the manipulations of spatial and nonspatial attention. Conversely, the electrophysiological correlate of attention, selection negativity, was elicited regardless of the presence or absence of consciousness. Only the correlates of later, higher-level conscious processes strongly depended on attention. Thus, the electrophysiological brain responses reflecting visual consciousness and attention are initially independent of each other.
This study explored the neural basis of the processing of anomalous information (the N400 effect) in an arithmetic task. Twenty healthy undergraduate students were scanned while they performed a number-matching task. Relative to matched numbers, unmatched numbers elicited significantly greater activation at left inferior and superior parietal cortex, left inferior frontal gyrus, and left fusiform and lingual gyri. Combining these results and those of previous studies on semantic anomaly, we proposed that the parietal region is the source of the arithmetic N400 component and the left inferior frontal gyrus is involved in domain-general processing of anomalous information.
LIM only domain protein 4 (LMO4) interacts with many signaling and transcription factors to regulate cellular proliferation, differentiation and plasticity. In Drosophila, mutations in the 3' untranslated region (UTR) of the homologue dLMO cause a gain of function by increasing mRNA stability. LMO4 3'UTR contains several AU-rich elements (ARE) and is highly conserved among vertebrates, suggesting that RNA destabilizing mechanisms are evolutionarily conserved. Here, we found that extracellular ATP stabilized LMO4 mRNA in F11 cells. The LMO4 3'UTR added to a luciferase reporter markedly reduced reporter activity under basal conditions, but increased activity with ATP treatment. Two ARE motifs were characterized in the LMO4 3'UTR. ATP increased binding of HuD protein to ARE1. ARE1 conferred ATP and HuD-dependent mRNA stabilization. In contrast, sequences flanking ARE2 bound CUGBP1 and ATP destabilized this complex. Thus, our results suggest that ATP modulates recruitment of RNA-binding proteins to the 3'UTR to stabilize LMO4 mRNA.
During our investigation of the neuroprotective activity of Platycodi radix we found that an aqueous extract of this folk medicine exhibited significant protection against glutamate-induced toxicity in primary cultured rat cortical cells. In order to clarify the neuroprotective mechanism(s) of this observed effect, activity-guided isolation was performed to seek and identify active fractions and components. By such fractionation, four known triterpene saponin compounds--platycodins A, C and D and deapioplatycodin D--were isolated from the n-butanol fraction. Among these four compounds, platycodin A exhibited significant neuroprotective activities against glutamate-induced toxicity, exhibiting cell viability of about 50%, at concentrations ranging from 0.1 microM to 10 microM. Therefore, the neuroprotective effect of Platycodi radix might be due to the inhibition of glutamate-induced toxicity by the saponin compounds it contains.
It has been shown that polyunsaturated fatty acids such as arachinonic and docosahexanoic acids but not monounsaturated and saturated long-chain fatty acids promote basal and nerve growth factor (NGF)-induced neurite extension of PC12 cells, a line derived from a rat pheochromocytoma. On the other hand, short-chain fatty acids and valproic acid (2-propylpentanoic acid) enhance the growth of neurite processes of the cells only in the presence of inducers. In this study, we demonstrated that straight medium-chain fatty acids (MCFAs) at millimolar concentrations alone potently induced neuronal differentiation of PC12 cells. Hexanoic, heptanoic and octanoic acids dose-dependently induced neurite outgrowth of the cells: their maximal effects determined 2 days after addition to the culture medium were more marked than the effect of NGF. PC12 cells exposed to octanoic acid expressed increased levels of the neuronal marker beta-tubulin isotype III. Nonanoic, decanoic, and dodecanoic acids also induced growth of neurite processes, but their maximal effects were less marked than that of octanoic acid. In contrast, the polyunsaturated fatty acid linoleic acid and short-chain fatty acids had only slight or almost no effects on neurite formation in the absence of NGF. The effect of octanoic acid was synergistic with or additive to the effects of NGF and dibutyryl cyclic AMP. Octanoic acid upregulated phosphorylation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), critical signaling molecules in neuronal differentiation, but not phosphorylation of Akt, a signaling molecule downstream of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K). Moreover, growth of neurites induced by octanoic acid was potently inhibited by treatment of cells with the p38 MAPK inhibitor SB203580 and the ERK kinase inhibitor PD98059 but not inhibited and only slightly inhibited by the JNK inhibitor SP600125 and the PI3K inhibitor wortmannin, respectively. Taken together, our results indicate that MCFAs, including octanoic acid, induced neurite outgrowth of PC12 cells in the absence of NGF and suggest that the activation of p38 MAPK and ERK pathways is involved in this process.
Ischemic preconditioning (IPC) before subsequent prolonged ischemia is considered an emerging endogenous means of ischemic brain protection. We tested whether IPC induces endogenous neurogenesis in the subventricular zone (SVZ) and angiogenesis in the peri-ischemic area. Middle cerebral artery occlusion was administered to rats by filament insertion for 10 min (IPC) and/or 2 h (prolonged focal ischemia [PFI]). IPC alone increased 5'-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) (+) cells 2.5-fold in the SVZ compared with controls at 7 days. The numbers of BrdU/doublecortin (Dcx) or BrdU/neuronal nuclei (NeuN) double-labeled cells also increased, but extents of BrdU/glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) double-labeling in the SVZ were not different. The IPC+PFI group showed about a 40% reduction in infarct volume. PFI increased BrdU (+) cells in the SVZ, and this was greatly enhanced by IPC treatment. The number of BrdU/Dcx double-labeled cells was strongly increased in ischemic brains administered IPC. Differentiation into mature neurons was also enhanced at 14 and 28 days. In addition, IPC significantly promoted angiogenesis in the ischemic penumbra as indicated by von Willebrand factor (vWF) staining. Our results indicate that IPC enhances neurogenesis in the SVZ even without subsequent PFI, and also enhances neurogenesis and angiogenesis after subsequent PFI. We conclude that IPC confers neuroprotection, and also promotes endogenous neurogenesis and angiogenesis.
First and second generation antipsychotics (FGAs and SGAs) ameliorate psychotic symptoms of schizophrenia, however, their chronic effects on information processing and memory function (i.e. key determinants of long term functional outcome) are largely unknown. In this rodent study the effects of different time periods (ranging from 2 weeks to 6 months) of oral treatment with the FGA, haloperidol (2.0 mg/kg/day), or the SGA, risperidone (2.5 mg/kg/day) on a water maze repeated acquisition procedure, the levels of nerve growth factor receptors, and two important cholinergic proteins, the vesicular acetylcholine transporter and the high affinity choline transporter were evaluated. The effects of the antipsychotics on a spontaneous novel object recognition procedure were also assessed during days 8-14 and 31-38 of treatment. Haloperidol (but not risperidone) was associated with impairments in water maze hidden platform trial performance at each of the time periods evaluated up to 45 days, but not when tested during days 83-90. In contrast, risperidone did not impair water maze task performance at the early time periods and it was actually associated with improved performance during the 83-90 day period. Both antipsychotics, however, were associated with significant water maze impairments during the 174-180 day period. Further, haloperidol was associated with decrements in short delay performance in the spontaneous novel object recognition task during both the 8-14 and 31-38 day periods of treatment, while risperidone was associated with short delay impairment during the 31-38 day time period. Both antipsychotics were also associated with time dependent alterations in the vesicular acetylcholine transporter, the high affinity choline transporter, as well as tyrosine kinase A, and p75 neurotrophin receptors in specific brain regions. These data from rats support the notion that while risperidone may hold some advantages over haloperidol, both antipsychotics can produce time-dependent alterations in neurotrophin receptors and cholinergic proteins as well as impairments in the performance of tasks designed to assess spatial learning and episodic memory.
Proteinase-activated receptors (PARs) are a family of four G protein-coupled receptors that are widely distributed in the CNS and involved in neural cell proliferation, differentiation and survival. The olfactory system undergoes continuous neurogenesis throughout life and may represent a critical target of PAR cellular actions. In the present study we investigated the functional activity of PAR1 and PAR2 in microdissected tissue preparations of olfactory nerve-glomerular layer (ON-GL), external plexiform layer (EPL) and granule cell layer (GRL) of the rat main olfactory bulb and in primary cultures of olfactory neuroepithelial cells. Activation of either PAR1 or PAR2 regulated multiple signaling pathways, including activation of pertussis-toxin sensitive Gi/o proteins, inhibition of cyclic AMP formation, stimulation of Gq/11-mediated phosphoinositide (PI) hydrolysis, phosphorylation of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II and activation of the monomeric G protein Rho, predominantly in ON-GL, whereas only activation of Rho was detected in the deeper layers. Olfactory nerve lesion by nasal irrigation with ZnSO4 induced a marked decrease of PAR signaling in ON-GL. In primary cultures of olfactory neurons, double immunofluorescence analysis showed the localization of PAR1 and PAR2 in cells positive for olfactory-marker protein and neuron-specific enolase. Cell exposure to either nanomolar concentrations of thrombin and trypsin or PAR-activating peptides caused rapid neurite retraction. This study provides the first characterization of the laminar distribution of PAR1 and PAR2 signaling in rat olfactory bulb, demonstrates the presence of the receptors in olfactory sensory neurons and suggests a role of PARs in olfactory sensory neuron neuritogenesis.
Alterations in lipid metabolism play an integral role in neuronal death in cerebral ischemia. Here we used an in vitro model, oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) of rat pheochromocytoma (PC12) cells, and analyzed changes in phosphatidylcholine (PC) and sphingomyelin (SM) metabolism. OGD (4-8 h) of PC12 cells triggered a dramatic reduction in PC and SM levels, and a significant increase in ceramide. OGD also caused increases in phosphatidylcholine-phospholipase C (PC-PLC) and phospholipase D (PLD) activities and PLD2 protein expression, and reduction in cytidine triphosphate:phosphocholine cytidylyltransferase-alpha (CCTalpha, the rate-limiting enzyme in PC synthesis) protein expression and activity. Phospholipase A2 activity and expression were unaltered during OGD. Increased neutral sphingomyelinase activity during OGD could account for SM loss and increased ceramide. Surprisingly, treatment with PC-PLC inhibitor tricyclodecan-9-yl potassium xanthate (D609) aggravated cell death in PC12 cells during OGD. D609 was cytotoxic only during OGD; cell death could be prevented by inclusion of sera, glucose or oxygen. During OGD, D609 caused further loss of PC and SM, depletion of 1,2-diacylglycerol (DAG), increase in ceramide and free fatty acids (FFA), cytochrome c release from mitochondria, increases in intracellular Ca2+ ([Ca2+]i), poly-ADP ribose polymerase (PARP) cleavage and phosphatidylserine externalization, indicative of apoptotic cell death. Exogenous PC during OGD in PC12 cells with D609 attenuated PC, SM loss, restored DAG, attenuated ceramide levels, decreased cytochrome c release, PARP cleavage, annexin V binding, attenuated the increase in [Ca2+]i, FFA release, and significantly increased cell viability. Exogenous PC may have elicited these effects by restoring membrane PC levels. A tentative scheme depicting the mechanism of action of D609 (inhibiting PC-PLC, SM synthase, PC synthesis at the CDP-choline-1,2-diacylglycerol phosphocholine transferase (CPT) step and causing mitochondrial dysfunction) has been proposed based on our observations and literature.
Previous studies have shown that extracellular pH (pHo) alters gating and permeation properties of cardiac L- and T-type channels. However, a comprehensive study investigating the effects of pHo on all other voltage-gated calcium channels is lacking. Here, we report the effects of pHo on activation parameters slope factor (S), half-activation potential (Va), reversal potential (Erev), and maximum slope conductance (Gmax) of the nine known neuronal voltage-gated calcium channels transiently expressed in tsA-201 cells. In all cases, acidification of the extracellular bathing solution results in a depolarizing shift in the activation curve and reduction in peak current amplitudes. Relative to a physiological pHo of 7.25, statistically significant depolarizing shifts in Va were observed for all channels at pHo 7.00 except Cav1.3 and 3.2, which showed significant shifts at pHo 6.75 and below. All channels displayed significant reductions in Gmax relative to pHo 7.25 at pHo 7.00 except Cav1.2, 2.1, and 3.1 which required acidification to pHo 6.75. Upon acidification Cav3 channels displayed the largest changes in Vas and exhibited the largest reduction in Gmax compared with other channel subtypes. Taken together, these results suggest that significant modulation of calcium channel currents can occur with changes in pHo. Acidification of the external solution did not produce significant shifts in observed Erevs or blockade of outward currents for any of the nine channel subtypes. Finally, we tested a simple Woodhull-type model of current block by assuming blockade of the pore by a single proton. In all cases, the amount of blockade observed could not be explained in these simple terms, suggesting that proton modulation is more complicated, involving more than one site or gating modification as has been previously described for cardiac L- and T-type channels.
Activation of the cannabinoid type 1 (CB1) receptor, a major G-protein-coupled receptor in brain, acts to regulate neuronal excitability and has been shown to mediate the anticonvulsant effects of cannabinoids in several animal models of seizure, including the rat pilocarpine model of acquired epilepsy. However, the long-term effects of status epilepticus on the expression and function of the CB1 receptor have not been described. Therefore, this study was initiated to evaluate the effect of status epilepticus on CB1 receptor expression, binding, and G-protein activation in the rat pilocarpine model of acquired epilepsy. Using immunohistochemistry, we demonstrated that status epilepticus causes a unique &quot;redistribution&quot; of hippocampal CB1 receptors, consisting of specific decreases in CB1 immunoreactivity in the dense pyramidal cell layer neuropil and dentate gyrus inner molecular layer, and increases in staining in the CA1-3 strata oriens and radiatum. In addition, this study demonstrates that the redistribution of CB1 receptor expression results in corresponding functional changes in CB1 receptor binding and G-protein activation using [3H] R+-[2,3-dihydro-5-methyl-3-[(morpholinyl)methyl]pyrrolo[1,2,3-de]-1,4-benzoxazin-yl](1-napthalen-yl)methanone mesylate (WIN55,212-2) and agonist-stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS autoradiography, respectively. The redistribution of CB1 receptor-mediated [35S]GTPgammaS binding was 1) attributed to an altered maximal effect (Emax) of WIN55,212-2 to stimulate [35S]GTPgammaS binding, 2) reversed by the CB1 receptor antagonist N-(piperidin-1-yl)-5-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-4-methyl-1H-pyrazole-3-carboxamide hydrochloride (SR141716A), 3) confirmed by the use of other CB1 receptor agonists, and 4) not reproduced in other G-protein-coupled receptor systems examined. These results demonstrate that status epilepticus causes a unique and selective reorganization of the CB1 receptor system that persists as a permanent hippocampal neuronal plasticity change associated with the development of acquired epilepsy.
The present study investigated the possibility that acute stress might activate microglial cells. Wistar rats were exposed to 2 h period of restraint combined with water immersion stress prior to brain analysis by immunohistochemistry with OX-42, a marker of complement receptor CR3. A single session of stress provoked robust morphological microglial activation in the thalamus, hypothalamus, hippocampus, substantia nigra and central gray. These effects appeared as early as at 1 h of exposure and were further intensified at 2 h. Morphological activation was not accompanied with changes in markers of functional activation or of inflammation including interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), interleukin-6 (IL-6) and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS). Similar results were obtained with mice where the effects of stress were compared in animals null for interleukin-18 (IL-18 KO), a cytokine previously demonstrated to be modulated by stress and to contribute to microglia activation. The results demonstrated significant reduction of stress-induced microglial activation in IL-18 KO mice. The present study reports evidence that physical/emotional stress may induce morphological microglial activation in the brain and this activation is in part mediated by interleukin-18.
The electrogenic Na+/HCO3- cotransporter (NBCe1) has been identified as a key player for regulation of intracellular pH in several cell types. The present study was undertaken to determine expression and subcellular localization of the NH2-terminal solute carrier (SLC) 4A4 variants NBCe1-A and NBCe1-B in mouse brain using variant-specific antibodies by immunohistochemistry and immunoelectron microscopy. In addition, distribution of NBCe1 variants and activity-dependent regulation was investigated in mouse embryonic day 17.5 (E17.5) hippocampal primary cultures in vitro. The results showed NBCe1-A and NBCe1-B transcript expression in the mouse olfactory bulb, cerebral cortex, hippocampus and cerebellum. NBCe1-A was predominantly expressed in Purkinje cells, granule cells of the dentate gyrus, non-pyramidal cell bodies in cerebral cortex, and in periglomerular and mitral cells in the olfactory bulb. Pyramidal neurons in cerebral cortex and apical cell dendrites in the hippocampus were stained for both NBCe1-A and NBCe1-B. Moreover, NBCe1-B was present in Bergmann glia. At the ultrastructural level, NBCe1-B was preferentially expressed in perivascular astroglial lamellae, whereas both NBCe1 NH2-terminal variants were localized in pre- and postsynaptic compartments. Except for the olfactory bulb, NBCe1-A was always colocalized with calbindin. Treatment of E17.5 primary hippocampal cultures with KCl, showed dramatic downregulation of NBCe1-B mRNA and protein after 60 min, whereas NBCe1-A expression remained unchanged. These data demonstrate for the first time distinct cellular distribution of NBCe1 NH2-terminal variants in mouse brain. NBCe1 may be involved in neuronal modulation, and pH regulation during neuronal activity.
Prostaglandins (PGs) are bioactive lipid mediators released following brain hypoxic-ischemic injury. Clearance and re-uptake of these prostaglandins occur via a transmembrane prostaglandin transporter (PGT), which exchanges PG for lactate. We used Western blot analyses to examine the PGT developmental profile and its regional distribution as well as changes in transporter expression during chronic hypoxia in the neonatal mouse brain. Microsomal preparations from four brain regions (cortex, hippocampus, cerebellum and brainstem/diencephalon) showed gradual increases in prostaglandin transporter expression in all brain regions examined from postnatal day 1 till day 30. There was a significant regional heterogeneity in the prostaglandin transporter expression with highest expression in the cortex, followed by cerebellum and hippocampus, and least expressed in the brainstem/diencephalon. To further delineate the pattern of prostaglandin transporter expression, separate astrocytic and neuronal microsomal preparations were also examined. In contrast to neurons, which had a robust expression of prostaglandin transporters, astrocytes had very little PGT expression under basal conditions. In response to chronic hypoxia, there was a significant decline in PGT expression in vivo and in neurons in vitro, whereas cultured astrocytes increased their PGT expression. This is the first report on PGT expression in the CNS and our studies suggest that PGTs have 1) a widespread distribution in the CNS; 2) a gradual increase and a differential expression in various regions during brain development; and 3) striking contrast in expression between glia and neurons, especially in response to hypoxia. Since PGTs play a role as prostaglandin-lactate exchangers, we hypothesize that PGTs are important in the CNS during stress such as hypoxia.
Stroke stimulates neurogenesis in the adult rodent brain. The molecules that mediate stroke-induced neurogenesis are not definitely known. Using microarrays containing approximately 400 known genes associated with stem cell and angiogenesis, we compared transcriptional profiles of subventricular zone (SVZ) tissue with cultured neural progenitor cells isolated from the SVZ 7 days after ischemic stroke in the adult mouse. In SVZ tissue, we found that stroke upregulated 58 genes which are involved in multiple signaling pathways during embryonic development, suggesting that stroke recaptures embryonic molecular signals. In neural progenitor cells cultured in growth medium, 23 gene expressions were increased after stroke and 8 of 23 genes overlapped with upregulated genes in stroke SVZ tissue. Expression alterations of selected genes were confirmed by real-time RT-PCR and immunohistochemistry. These in vivo and in vitro data provide new insight into the genetic program of adult SVZ neural progenitor cells after stroke and demonstrate gene expression differences between SVZ tissue and cultured SVZ cells.
The neurosteroid allopregnanolone (ALLO) is a potent positive modulator of GABAA receptors that can modulate ethanol (EtOH) withdrawal. The 5alpha-reductase inhibitor finasteride can block the formation of ALLO and other GABAergic neurosteroids and also reduce certain effects of EtOH. Treatment with finasteride during chronic EtOH exposure decreased EtOH withdrawal severity and blood EtOH concentrations (BECs), suggesting an additional effect of finasteride on EtOH pharmacokinetics. Thus, the purpose of the present study was to determine the effect of finasteride on acute EtOH withdrawal severity, to minimize the effect of finasteride on EtOH metabolism. Male and female C57BL/6J and DBA/2J mice received a pretreatment of finasteride (50 mg/kg i.p.) or vehicle 24 h prior to an injection of EtOH (4 g/kg i.p.) or saline. Handling-induced convulsions (HICs) were scored at baseline, and then over a 24 h period after EtOH or saline injection. In another experiment, plasma estradiol and corticosterone levels were assessed at selected time points (0, 2, 8, and 24 h). In a final study, retro-orbital blood samples were collected at 30, 60, 120, and 240 min post-EtOH administration to access finasteride's effects on EtOH clearance parameters. Pretreatment with finasteride increased acute EtOH withdrawal severity in female C57BL/6J and DBA/2J mice but decreased withdrawal severity in male mice of both strains. Finasteride did not alter BECs, EtOH clearance, estradiol, or corticosterone concentrations in a manner that appeared to contribute to the sex difference in finasteride's effect on acute EtOH withdrawal severity. These findings suggest that male and female C57BL/6J and DBA/2J mice differ in their sensitivity to changes in ALLO or other GABAergic neurosteroid levels during acute EtOH withdrawal. Sex differences in the modulation of GABAergic 5alpha-reduced steroids may be an important consideration in understanding and developing therapeutic interventions in alcoholics.
Transparent larval zebrafish offer the opportunity to unravel genetic and neuronal networks underlying behavior in a developing system. In this study, we developed a choice chamber paradigm to measure reward-associated behavior in larval zebrafish. In the chamber where larval zebrafish have a choice of spending their time in either a water- or morphine-containing compartment, larvae that have previously experienced morphine spend significantly more time in the compartment containing morphine. This behavior can be attentuated by pre-treatment with antagonists of the opioid receptor or the dopamine receptor, and furthermore, is impaired in the too few mutant, which has a genetic deficiency in the production of specific groups of dopaminergic and serotonergic neurons in the ventral forebrain. These results uncover a choice behavior for an addictive substance in larval zebrafish that is mediated through central opioid and monoaminergic neurotransmitter systems.
The cholinergic system has long been known for its role in acquisition and retention of new information. Scopolamine, a muscarinic acetylcholine receptor antagonist impairs multiple memory systems, and this has promoted the notion that drug-induced side effects are responsible for diminished task execution rather than selective impairments on learning and memory per se. Here, we revisit this issue with the aim to dissociate the effects of scopolamine (0.2-1.0 mg/kg) on spatial learning in the water maze. Experiments 1 and 2 showed that acquisition of a reference memory paradigm with constant platform location is compromised by scopolamine independent of whether the animals are pre-trained or not. Deficits were paralleled by drug induced side-effects on sensorimotor parameters. Experiment 3 explored the role of muscarinic receptors in acquisition of an episodic-like spatial delayed matching to position (DMTP) protocol, and scopolamine still caused a learning deficit and side-effects on sensorimotor performance. Rats extensively pre-trained in the DMTP protocol with 30 s and 1 h delays over several months in experiment 4 and tested in a within-subject design under saline and scopolamine had no sensorimotor deficits, but spatial working memory remained compromised. Experiment 5 used the rising Atlantis platform in the DMTP paradigm. Intricate analysis of the amount of dwelling and its location revealed a clear deficit in spatial working memory induced by scopolamine, but there was no effect on sensorimotor or procedural task demands. Apart from the well-known contribution to sensorimotor and procedural learning, our findings provide compelling evidence for an important role of muscarinic acetylcholine receptor signaling in spatial episodic-like memory.
Motor neuron (MN) mitochondrial abnormalities and elevation in spinal fluid levels of the inflammatory cytokine tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) have been implicated in the pathogenesis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). The mechanism of neuron death in ALS remains unclear, along with the contributions of mitochondrial dysfunction and inflammation in the process. Cell cultures enriched for MN derived from embryonic rat spinal cords were established and directly exposed in vitro to recombinant TNF-alpha for varying lengths of time. Although cytokine exposure for up to 4 days failed to induce MN death, mitochondrial changes were observed shortly after initiating treatment. Our results demonstrate that TNF-alpha induced mitochondrial redistribution toward the soma in MN. We postulate that inflammation may precede, and in fact cause, the mitochondrial changes observed in ALS tissue.
Persistent elevated neuronal activity has been identified as the neuronal correlate of working memory. It is generally assumed in the literature and in computational and theoretical models of working memory that memory-cell activity is stable and replicable; however, this assumption may be an artifact of the averaging of data collected across trials, and needs experimental verification. In this study, we introduce a classification scheme to characterize the firing frequency trends of cells recorded from the cortex of monkeys during performance of working memory tasks. We examine the frequency statistics and variability of firing during baseline and memory periods. We also study the behavior of cells on individual trials and across trials, and explore the stability of cellular firing during the memory period. We find that cells from different firing-trend classes possess markedly different statistics. We also find that individual cells show substantial variability in their firing behavior across trials, and that firing frequency also varies markedly over the course of a single trial. Finally, the average frequency distribution is wider, the magnitude of the frequency increases from baseline to memory smaller, and the magnitude of frequency decreases larger than is generally assumed. These results may serve as a guide in the evaluation of current theories of the cortical mechanisms of working memory.
Thalamocortical synapses provide a strong glutamatergic excitation to cortical neurons that is critical for processing sensory information. Unit recordings in vivo indicate that metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) reduce the effect of thalamocortical input on cortical circuits. However, it is not known whether this reduction is due to a reduction in glutamate release from thalamocortical terminals or from a decrease in cortical neuron excitability. To directly determine whether mGluRs act as autoreceptors on thalamocortical terminals, we examined the effect of mGluR agonists on thalamocortical synapses in slices. Thalamocortical excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) were recorded in layer IV cortical neurons in developing mouse brain slices. The activation of group II mGluRs with (2S,2'R,3'R)-2-(2',3'-dicarboxycyclopropyl)glycine (DCG IV) reduced thalamocortical EPSCs in both excitatory and inhibitory neurons, while the stimulation of group I or group III mGluRs had no effect on thalamocortical EPSCs. Consistent with a reduction in glutamate release, DCG IV increased the paired pulse ratio and the coefficient of variation of the EPSCs. The reduction induced by DCG IV was reversed by the group II mGluR antagonist, LY341495, and mimicked by another selective group II agonist, (2R,4R)-4-aminopyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylic acid (APDC). The mGluR2 subtype appears to mediate the reduction of thalamocortical EPSCs, since the selective mGluR3 agonist, N-acetylaspartylglutamate (NAAG), had no effect on the EPSCs. Consistent with this, we showed that mGluR2 is expressed in the barrels. Furthermore, blocking group II mGluRs with LY341495 reduced the synaptic depression induced by a short stimulus train, indicating that synaptically released glutamate activates these receptors. These results indicate that group II mGluRs modulate thalamocortical processing by inhibiting glutamate release from thalamocortical synapses. This inhibition provides a feedback mechanism for preventing excessive excitation of cortical neurons that could play a role in the plasticity and refinement of thalamocortical connections during this early developmental period.
Lumbar intrathecal injections of substance P-saporin (SP-sap) destroy dorsal horn neurons that express the neurokinin-1 receptor (NK-1R) resulting in decreased responses to a range of noxious stimuli and decreased hyperalgesia and allodynia. Forebrain injections of SP-sap produce considerable non-specific damage raising some concern about use of this toxin in vivo. The more stable and selective substance P congener, [Sar9,Met(O2)11]substance P coupled to saporin (SSP-sap) produces much more selective forebrain lesions at significantly lower doses. The present study sought to determine the anatomic and nocifensive behavioral effects of lumbar intrathecal injections of the more precisely targeted SSP-sap. On the basis of loss of lamina I NK-1R staining, lumbar intrathecal SSP-sap was seven times more potent than SP-sap and produced no loss of NK-1R expressing neurons in deeper laminae (III-VI or X). Transient decreases in hotplate responding occurred at 44 degrees C and 47 degrees C but not 52 degrees C during the first 3 weeks after SSP-sap injection with return to baseline by 4 weeks. Operant escape responses were reduced at 0.3 degrees C, 44 degrees C and 47 degrees C for at least 4 months. In the formalin test, SSP-sap also was about seven times more potent than SP-sap in reducing phase two behavior in both female Long Evans and male Sprague-Dawley rats. Both SSP-sap and SP-sap reduced formalin-induced FOS expression in deep and superficial laminae of the L4 dorsal horn in parallel with the reduction in phase 2 behavior. In summary, SSP-sap is highly effective in destroying lamina I NK-1R expressing neurons, without loss of deep NK-1R neurons. The behavioral effects of SSP-sap are similar to SP-sap suggesting that the antinociceptive effects of both toxins are indeed due to selective loss of NK-1R neurons in lamina I. SSP-sap is an attractive agent for possible treatment of chronic pain.
We used the electroencephalogram (EEG) to investigate whether positive and negative performance feedbacks exert different long-lasting modulations of electrical activity in a reasoning task. Nine college students serially tested hypotheses concerning a hidden rule by judging its presence or absence in triplets of digits, and revised them on the basis of an exogenous performance feedback. The scaling properties of the transition period between feedback and triplet presentation were investigated with detrended fluctuation analysis (DFA). DFA showed temporal scale-free dynamics of EEG activity in both feedback conditions for time scales larger than 150 ms. Furthermore, DFA revealed that negative feedback elicits significantly higher scaling exponents than positive feedback. This effect covers a wide network comprising parieto-occipital and left frontal regions. We thus showed that specific task demands can modify the temporal scale-free dynamics of the ongoing brain activity. Putative neural correlates of these long-lasting feedback-specific modulations are proposed.
The respiratory neural network in the mammalian medulla oblongata shows rhythmic activity before birth. GABA and glycine are considered to be involved in control of respiratory rhythm. Recently we have demonstrated respiratory failure in glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) 67-deficient mice [Tsunekawa N, Arata A, Obata K (2005) Development of spontaneous mouth/tongue movement and related neural activity, and their repression in mouse fetus lacking glutamate decarboxylase 67. Eur J Neurosci 21:173-178]. To further evaluate the involvement of GABA and glycine in fetal respiratory function, we studied neural activities in brainstem-spinal cord blocks prepared from GAD65-/-:67-/- and vesicular GABA transporter (VGAT)-/-mice on embryonic day 14 (E14)-E15 and E18. In these knockout mice, the synthesis of GABA and the vesicular release of GABA and glycine are completely absent, respectively. Spontaneous respiratory discharges were observed in the ventral roots at the cervical cord (C) 4 level from wild-type mice but not from the knockout mice on E18. Administration of substance P induced C4 discharges in GAD65-/-:67-/- preparations but not in VGAT-/- preparations. C4 discharges were observed in the knockout mice on E14-E15, although the frequency was lower than that in the wild-type. Neuronal activities in the respiratory network of the E18 brainstem were recorded using a &quot;blind&quot; patch-clamp technique. Expiratory and inspiratory neurons with their characteristic firing patterns were observed in the wild-type fetuses. Strychnine reversed inspiratory-phase hyperpolarization to large depolarization in expiratory neurons. On the other hand, neurons in the same area of the knockout mice fired spontaneously without any rhythm. Substance P induced hyperpolarizing potentials in medullary neurons of GAD65-/-:67-/- mice. Further administration of strychnine induced large depolarizing potentials. Rhythmic activities were not observed in VGAT-/- mice even in the presence of substance P and strychnine. These results indicate that the lack of GABA and glycine impairs the function of the respiratory network in mouse fetuses and the impairment progresses with fetal age.
The in vitro differentiation of P19 murine embryonal carcinoma cells to neurons resembles developmental stages which are encountered during neuronal development. Three days following induction to neuronal differentiation by retinoic acid, most cells of the P19 population lost expression of the stage specific embryonic antigen (SSEA-1) and expressed the neural progenitor cell specific antigen nestin. Beginning from day 4 of differentiation nestin expression was down-regulated, and expression of neuron-specific enolase as marker of differentiated neurons increased. The molecular mechanisms underlying neuronal differentiation are poorly understood. We have characterized the participation of purinergic ionotropic (P2X) and metabotropic (P2Y) receptors at mRNA transcription and protein levels as well as ATP-induced Ca2+ transients during neuronal differentiation of P19 cells. Gene and protein expression of P2X2, P2X6, P2Y2, and P2Y6 receptors increased during the course of differentiation, whereas P2X3, P2X4, P2Y1 and P2Y4 receptor expression was high in embryonic P19 cells and then decreased following induction of P19 cells to differentiation. P2X1 receptor protein expression was only detected on days 2 and 4 of differentiation. Although P2X5 and P2X7 mRNA transcription was present, no protein expression for this receptor subunit could be detected throughout the differentiation process. In undifferentiated cells, mainly ionotropic P2X receptors contributed to the ATP-induced Ca2+-response. In neuronal-differentiated P19 cells, the ATP-induced Ca2+-response was increased and the metabotropic component predominated. Purinergic receptor function is implicated to participate in neuronal maturation, as cholinergic and glutamate-N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) induced calcium responses were affected when cells were differentiated in the presence of purinergic receptor antagonists pyridoxalphosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulphonic acid (PPADS), suramin or reactive blue-2. Our data suggest that inhibition of P2Y1 and possibly P2X2 receptors led to a loss of NMDA receptor activity whereas blockade of possibly P2X2 and P2Y2 purinergic receptors during neuronal differentiation of P19 mouse led to inhibition of cholinergic receptor responses.
The central piriform cortex (cPC) is considered to be critically involved in the generation and propagation of kindled seizures. Our previous study found that low-frequency stimulation (LFS) of the cPC inhibits the development process of amygdala kindling. In this study, we determined whether unilateral LFS of the cPC had an inhibitory effect on amygdaloid-kindled seizures in Sprague-Dawley rats. When fully-kindled seizures were achieved by daily amygdala electrical stimulation (2 s train of 1 ms pulses at 60 Hz and 150-300 microA), LFS (15 min train of 0.1 ms pulses at 1 Hz and 50-150 microA) was applied to the ipsilateral or contralateral cPC 1 s after cessation of kindling stimulation for 10 days. LFS of the ipsilateral cPC significantly decreased the incidence of generalized seizures and seizure stage, and shortened cumulative afterdischarge duration and cumulative generalized seizure duration. LFS of the contralateral cPC also significantly decreased the expression of seizure stage, but had no appreciable effect on the generalized seizure incidence, cumulative afterdischarge duration and cumulative generalized seizure duration. On the other hand, LFS of the ipsilateral cPC significantly increased the afterdischarge threshold and further increased the differences of current intensity between afterdischarge threshold and generalized seizure threshold. Our data suggest that LFS of the cPC may be an effective method of inhibiting kindled seizures by preventing both afterdischarge generation and propagation. It provide further evidence that brain regions like the cPC, other than the seizure focus, can serve as targets for deep brain stimulation treatment of epilepsy.
Slow firing septal neurons modulate hippocampal and neocortical functions. Electrophysiologically, it is unclear whether slow firing neurons belong to a homogeneous neuronal population. To address this issue, whole-cell patch recordings and neuronal reconstructions were performed on rat brain slices containing the medial septum/diagonal band complex (MS/DB). Slow firing neurons were identified by their low firing rate at threshold (&lt;5 Hz) and lack of time-dependent inward rectification (Ih). Unsupervised cluster analysis was used to investigate whether slow firing neurons could be further classified into different subtypes. The parameters used for the cluster analysis included latency for first spike, slow after-hyperpolarizing potential, maximal frequency and action potential (AP) decay slope. Neurons were grouped into three major subtypes. The majority of neurons (55%) were grouped as cluster I. Cluster II (17% of neurons) exhibited longer latency for generation of the first action potential (246.5+/-20.1 ms). Cluster III (28% of neurons) exhibited higher maximal firing frequency (25.3+/-1.7 Hz) when compared with cluster I (12.3+/-0.9 Hz) and cluster II (11.8+/-1.1 Hz) neurons. Additionally, cluster III neurons exhibited faster action potentials at suprathreshold. Interestingly, cluster II neurons were frequently located in the medial septum whereas neurons in cluster I and III appeared scattered throughout all MS/DB regions. Sholl's analysis revealed a more complex dendritic arborization in cluster III neurons. Cluster I and II neurons exhibited characteristics of &quot;true&quot; slow firing neurons whereas cluster III neurons exhibited higher frequency firing patterns. Several neurons were labeled with a cholinergic marker, Cy3-conjugated 192 IgG (p75NTR), and cholinergic neurons were found to be distributed among the three clusters. Our findings indicate that slow firing medial septal neurons are heterogeneous and that soma location is an important determinant of their electrophysiological properties. Thus, slow firing neurons from different septal regions have distinct functional properties, most likely related to their diverse connectivity.
Two thalamic nuclear groups, the anterior thalamic nuclei (ATN) and midline and intralaminar thalamic complex (MITC) have connections to the prefrontal cortex, amygdala, hippocampus and accumbens that are important for learning and memory. However, the anatomical proximity between the ATN and MITC makes it difficult to reveal their roles in memory retrieval of aversive conditioned behavior. To address the issue, we explored the activation of the ATN and MITC, as represented by the expression of the immediate early gene c-fos, following either the retrieval of a conditioned taste aversion (CTA) induced by taste-LiCl pairing (visceral aversion) or of inhibitory avoidance (IA) induced by context-foot shock pairing (somatic aversion) in rats. The anterodorsal (AD) nucleus in the ATN was activated by foot shock and the recall of IA, but not by i.p. injection of LiCl or the recall of CTA. No significant elevation was observed in the other ATN following these treatments. Among nuclei of the MITC, the paraventricular thalamic nucleus (PVT) was activated by the delivery of shock or LiCl and by the recall of both CTA and IA, while the mediodorsal thalamus (MD) and central medial and intermediate thalamus (CM/IMD) were not. The innately aversive taste of quinine did not elevate c-fos expression in either the ATN or MITC. These results suggest that the PVT in the MITC is involved in the processing and retrieval of both taste-malaise and context-shock association tasks, while the AD in the ATN is involved in those of context-shock association only. The difference of the activity between the ATN and MITC demonstrates their functional and anatomical heterogeneity in neural substrates for aversive learning tasks.
Although codeine is the most prominent and centrally acting antitussive agent, the precise sites and mode of its action have not been fully understood yet. In the present study, we examined the effects of codeine on synaptic transmission in second-order neurons of the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS), which is the first central relay site receiving tussigenic afferent fibers, by using whole-cell patch-clamp recordings in guinea-pig brainstem slices. Codeine (0.3-3 mM) significantly decreased the amplitude of excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) evoked by electrical stimulation of the tractus solitarius in a naloxone-reversible and concentration-dependent manner, but it had no effect on the decay time of evoked EPSCs (eEPSCs). The inhibition of eEPSCs was accompanied by an increased paired-pulse ratio of two consecutive eEPSCs. The inward current induced by application of AMPA remained unchanged after codeine application. A voltage-sensitive K+ channel blocker, 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) attenuated the inhibitory effect of codeine on eEPSCs. These results suggest that codeine inhibits excitatory transmission from the primary afferent fibers to the second-order NTS neurons through the opioid receptors that activate the 4-AP sensitive K+ channels located at presynaptic terminals.
High affinity monoamine transporters efficiently terminate neurotransmission through synaptic reuptake of released neurotransmitter. We recently cloned and characterized a novel low-affinity, high capacity plasma membrane monoamine transporter (PMAT) that is strongly expressed in the human brain and efficiently transports 5-HT and dopamine (DA). In efforts to understand the physiological function of PMAT and its relevance in monoaminergic pathways, we cloned the PMAT homolog from the mouse brain, demonstrated its capability for transporting 5-HT and DA, and determined the regional and cellular localization of mouse plasma membrane monoamine transporter (mPMAT) in adult mouse brain by reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction, non-radioactive in situ hybridization, and immunohistochemical methods. Our results showed that mPMAT mRNA and protein are broadly expressed in the mouse brain and are particularly abundant in forebrain cortex, olfactory tubercle, hippocampus, cerebellum and epithelial cells of the choroid plexus. Dual-immunofluorescence histochemistry with established phenotypic markers microtubule-associated protein (MAP2) and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) revealed that mPMAT is expressed in neuronal cells but not in astrocytes. mPMAT is co-expressed in many brain regions with the high affinity 5-HT transporter (SERT) and the dopamine transporter (DAT), but is also found in certain sites that receive monoamine innervation but lack significant expression of SERT or DAT. These findings suggest that mPMAT is a widely distributed, neuronally-expressed transporter, which may support the role of 5-HT and DA uptake under certain conditions.
The prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) mediates estradiol-induced masculinization of sexual behavior in the rat during a perinatal sensitive period. PGE2 induces formation of dendritic spines on preoptic area (POA) neurons and this synaptic pattern change is associated with the ability to express male sexual behavior as an adult. Whether PGE2 is released from astrocytes or neurons in the developing POA is unknown. To further understanding of how PGE2 induces dendritic spine formation at the cellular level, we have explored the PGE2 receptor subtype mediating this response. There are four receptors for PGE2, EP1, EP2, EP3 and EP4, each having unique but interacting signal transduction profiles. Treatment of newborn female rats with the EP receptor agonists iloprost, butaprost and sulprostone indicated that stimulation of both the EP2 and EP3 receptors significantly increased spinophilin, a protein whose levels positively correlate to the presence of dendritic spines and masculinization of the POA. Use of antisense oligonucleotides against the mRNA for each receptor reveals that either EP2 or EP3 receptor knockdown reduces spinophilin in PGE2- or estradiol-treated females, whereas reducing EP1 or EP4 receptor levels by the same means has a smaller but also significant effect. A developmental profile of EP receptor expression indicates EP1 in particular is elevated for the first few days of life, corresponding to the critical period for masculinization, whereas mRNA levels for the other three receptors remain relatively constant.
The immune response can influence neuronal viability and plasticity after injury, effects differing in strains of rats with different susceptibility to autoimmune disease. We assessed the effects of i.p. injections of cyclosporin A (CsA) or FK506 on adult retinal ganglion cell (RGC) survival and axonal regeneration into peripheral nerve (PN) autografted onto the cut optic nerve of rats resistant (Fischer F344) or vulnerable (Lewis) to autoimmune disease. Circulating and tissue CsA and FK506 levels were similar in both strains. Three weeks after autologous PN transplantation the number of viable beta-III tubulin-positive RGCs was significantly greater in CsA- and FK506-treated F344 rats compared with saline-injected controls. RGC survival in Lewis rats was not significantly altered. In F344 rats, retrograde labeling of RGCs revealed that CsA or FK506 treatment significantly increased the number of RGCs that regenerated an axon into a PN autograft; however these agents had no beneficial effect on axonal regeneration in Lewis rats. PN grafts in F344 rats also contained comparatively more pan-neurofilament immunoreactive axons. In both strains, 3 weeks after transplantation CsA or FK506 treatment resulted in increased retinal macrophage numbers, but only in F344 rats was this increase significant. At this time-point PN grafts in both strains contained many macrophages and some T cells. T cell numbers in Lewis rats were significantly greater than in F344 animals. The increased RGC axonal regeneration seen in CsA- or FK506-treated F344 but not Lewis rats shows that modulation of immune responses after neurotrauma has complex and not always predictable outcomes.
Although in situ hybridization studies have revealed the presence of kainate receptor (KAR) mRNA in neurons of the rat medial entorhinal cortex (mEC), the functional presence and roles of these receptors are only beginning to be examined. To address this deficiency, whole cell voltage clamp recordings of locally evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) were made from mEC layer II and III neurons in combined entorhinal cortex-hippocampal brain slices. Three types of neurons were identified by their electroresponsive membrane properties, locations, and morphologies: stellate-like &quot;Sag&quot; neurons in layer II (S), pyramidal-like &quot;No Sag&quot; neurons in layer III (NS), and &quot;Intermediate Sag&quot; neurons with varied morphologies and locations (IS). Non-NMDA EPSCs in these neurons were composed of two components, and the slow decay component in NS neurons had larger amplitudes and contributed more to the combined EPSC than did those observed in S and IS neurons. This slow component was mediated by KARs and was characterized by its resistance to either 1-(4-aminophenyl)-4-methyl-7,8-methylenedioxy-5H-2,3-benzodiazepine hydrochloride (GYKI 52466, 100 microM) or 1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-6-nitro-2,3-dioxo-benzo[lsqb]f[rsqb]quinoxaline-7-sulfonamide (NBQX, 1 microM), relatively slow decay kinetics, and sensitivity to 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX, 10-50 microM). KAR-mediated EPSCs in pyramidal-like NS neurons contributed significantly more to the combined non-NMDA EPSC than did those from S and IS neurons. Layer III neurons of the mEC are selectively susceptible to degeneration in human temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) and animal models of TLE such as kainate-induced status epilepticus. Characterizing differences in the complement of postsynaptic receptors expressed in injury prone versus injury resistant mEC neurons represents an important step toward understanding the vulnerability of layer III neurons seen in TLE.
Large-scale transcriptome analysis in the brain is a powerful approach to identify novel genes of potential interest toward understanding cerebral organization and function. We utilized the microarray technology to measure expression levels of about 24,000 genes and expressed sequence tags in mouse hippocampus, frontal cortex and striatum. Using expression profile obtained from whole brain as a reference, we categorized the genes into groups of genes either enriched in, or restricted to, one of the three areas of interest. We found enriched genes for each target area. Further, we identified 14 genes in the category of genes restricted to the striatum, among which were the orphan G protein-coupled receptor GPR88 and retinoic acid receptor-beta. These two genes were already reported to be selectively expressed in the striatum, thus validating our experimental approach. We selected 6 striatal-restricted genes, as well as 10 striatal-enriched candidates, that were previously undescribed. We analyzed their expression by in situ hybridization analysis in the brain, and quantitative RT-PCR in both brain and peripheral organs. Two of these unknown genes displayed a notable expression pattern. The striatal-restricted gene H3076B11 shows uniform expression throughout and uniquely in the striatum, representing a genuine striatal marker. The striatal-enriched gene 4833421E05Rik is preferentially expressed in the rostral striatum, and is also abundant in kidney, liver and lung. These two genes may contribute to some of the many striatal-controlled behaviors, including initiation of movement, habit formation, or reward and motivation.
The present study was undertaken to characterize the regional and temporal patterns of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the rat forebrain and upper brain stem during postnatal development using an immunohistochemical approach. Results indicated that BDNF-immunoreactive (IR) cells could be divided into three groups based on their postnatal developmental patterns: (group 1) BDNF-IR cells were first detected between postnatal days (PND) 1 and 7, and thereafter they increased in number and remained stable during later stages of ontogeny; (group 2) BDNF-IR cells progressively increased in number with age, and then decreased in adults; (group 3) numerous BDNF-IR cells detected between PND 1 and 7 showed a dramatic reductions in number with few IR cells in adults. In contrast, the developmental pattern of most BDNF-IR fibers differed from that of IR neurons, i.e. they appeared between PND 1-28 and thereafter continued to increase in number showing a maximum level in adults. Additionally, BDNF-IR cells in the superficial layer of the neocortex and IR fibers in the stratum oriens of CA2 first appeared as late as PND 28 and in adults, respectively. After colchicine treatment, reexpression or a marked increase in the number of BDNF-IR neurons was observed in many areas of the adult brain where a progressive decrease in BDNF-IR cell numbers during development and scant or some IR neurons in adults were shown. These results showed both transient and persistent expression of BDNF in various regions of the developing rat brain.
General anesthetics are presumed to act in a distributed manner throughout the CNS. However, we found that microinjection of GABAA-receptor (GABAA-R) active anesthetics into a restricted locus in the rat brainstem, the mesopontine tegmental anesthesia area (MPTA), rapidly induces a reversible anesthesia-like state characterized by suppressed locomotion, atonia, anti-nociception and loss of consciousness. GABA-sensitive neurons in the MPTA may therefore have powerful control over major aspects of brain and spinal function. Tracer studies have shown that the MPTA projects to the rostromedial medulla, an important reticulospinal relay for pain modulation and motor control. It also projects directly to the spinal cord. But do individual MPTA neurons project to one or to both targets? We microinjected fluorogold into the rostromedial medulla and cholera toxin b-subunit into the spinal cord, or vice versa. Neurons that were double-labeled, and hence project to both targets, were intermingled with single-labeled neurons within the MPTA, and comprised only 11.5% of the total. MPTA neurons that project directly to the spinal cord were larger, on average, than those projecting to the rostromedial medulla, differed in shape, and were much more likely to express GABAA-alpha1Rs as assessed by receptor alpha-1 subunit immunoreactivity (51.4% vs. 18.9%). Thus, for the most part, separate and morphologically distinct populations of MPTA neurons project to the rostromedial medulla and to the spinal cord. Either or both may be involved in the modulation of nociception and the generation of atonia during the MPTA-induced anesthesia-like state.
The corticothalamic projection includes a main, modulatory projection from cortical layer VI terminating with small endings whereas a less numerous, driving projection from layer V forms giant endings. Such dual pattern of corticothalamic projections is well established in rodents and cats for many cortical areas. In non-human primates (monkeys), it has been reported for the primary sensory cortices (A1, V1, S1), the motor and premotor cortical areas and, in the parietal lobe, also for area 7. The present study aimed first at refining the cytoarchitecture parcellation of area 5 into the sub-areas PE and PEa and, second, establishing whether area 5 also exhibits this dual pattern of corticothalamic projection and what is its precise topography. To this aim, the tracer biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) was injected in area PE in one monkey and in area PEa in a second monkey. Area PE sends a major projection terminating with small endings to the thalamic lateral posterior nucleus (LP), ventral posterior lateral nucleus (VPL), medial pulvinar (PuM) and, but fewer, to ventral lateral posterior nucleus, dorsal division (VLpd), central lateral nucleus (CL) and center median nucleus (CM), whereas giant endings formed restricted terminal fields in LP, VPL and PuM. For area PEa, the corticothalamic projection formed by small endings was found mainly in LP, VPL, anterior pulvinar (PuA), lateral pulvinar (PuL), PuM and, to a lesser extent, in ventral posterior inferior nucleus (VPI), CL, mediodorsal nucleus (MD) and CM. Giant endings originating from area PEa formed restricted terminal fields in LP, VPL, PuA, PuM, MD and PuL. Furthermore, the origin of the thalamocortical projections to areas PE and PEa was established, exhibiting clusters of neurons in the same thalamic nuclei as above, in other words predominantly in the caudal thalamus. Via the giant endings CT projection, areas PE and PEa may send feedforward, transthalamic projections to remote cortical areas in the parietal, temporal and frontal lobes contributing to polysensory and sensorimotor integration, relevant for visual guidance of reaching movements for instance.
Sustained exposure to opioid agonists such as morphine increases levels of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) in the spinal dorsal horn, a response implicated in the development of opioid tolerance and physical dependence. Recent evidence suggests that both the opioid-induced increase in CGRP and the development of opioid physical dependence are suppressed by blockade of spinal cannabinoid (CB1)-receptors. The present study examined whether CB1-receptor activity also has a role in the development of opioid tolerance. In rats implanted with spinal catheters, repeated acute injections of morphine (15 microg) delivered over 4 h resulted in a rapid decline of thermal and mechanical antinociception and a significant loss of analgesic potency, reflecting development of acute opioid tolerance. In another set of experiments, chronic administration of spinal morphine (15 microg) once daily for 5 days produced a similar loss of analgesic effect and a marked increase in CGRP-immunoreactivity in the superficial laminae of the dorsal horn. Consistent with the in vivo findings, primary cultures of adult dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons exposed to morphine for 5 days showed a significant increase in the number of CGRP-immunoreactive neurons. Co-administration of acute or chronic morphine with a CB1-receptor antagonist/inverse agonist, 1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-5-(4-iodophenyl)-4-methyl-N-1-piperidinyl-1H-pyrazole-3-carboxamide (AM-251), inhibited the development of both acute and chronic analgesic tolerance. In animals already exhibiting tolerance to morphine, intervention with AM-251 restored morphine analgesic potency. Co-administration with AM-251 attenuated the morphine-induced increase in CGRP-immunoreactivity in the spinal cord and in DRG cultured neurons. Collectively, the results of this study suggest that activity of endocannabinoids, mediated via CB1-receptors, contributes to both the development and maintenance of opioid tolerance by influencing the opioid-induced increase in spinal CGRP.
Bleomycin hydrolase (BLMH) is a multifaceted neutral cysteine protease with a suggested role in antigen presentation, homocysteine-thiolactone metabolism, and Alzheimer's disease pathogenesis. Deletion of the protease in mice results in increased neonatal mortality and dermatopathology. Immunohistochemical and behavioral studies of BLMH knockout mice were undertaken to further evaluate the role of the protease in the brain. No gross abnormalities in the CNS were observed upon preliminary histological examination of B6.129Blmhtm1Geh/J null animals. However, glial fibrillary acid protein immunohistochemistry revealed a global reactive astrogliosis in the aged null animals, indicative of undefined brain pathology. The role of BLMH in the brain was further explored by characterizing the behavioral phenotype of hybrid [129S6-Blmhtm1Geh/JxB6.129 Blmhtm1Geh/J]F1 null and littermate controls using multiple behavioral paradigms. In the water maze, deletion of BLMH resulted in poorer performance during water maze probe trials without detectable effect of the mutation on sensorimotor function. In addition, no age-dependent decline in discriminative performance on probe trials was observed in null animals. These data suggest a physiological non-redundant function for BLMH in the CNS.
Aging leads to alterations in the function of the hippocampus, a brain structure largely involved in learning processes. This study aimed at examining the basal levels and the impact of a learning-associated task on brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), on BDNF full-length catalytic receptor (TrkB.FL) and on the truncated forms (TrkB.T1 and TrkB.T2) receptor expression (mRNA and protein) in the hippocampus of young (2-month-old) and aged (24-month-old) Wistar rats. Spatial memory was evaluated using a water-maze procedure involving visible and invisible platform location learning. Aged rats showed higher latencies during the first two training days but rapidly exhibited learning performances similar to patterns observed with young rats. Real-time PCR measurements showed that aged rats had significantly higher levels of trkB.FL mRNAs than young rats under basal conditions. In situ hybridization analysis indicated that the highest level of trkB.FL mRNA (mRNA encoding for TrkB.FL receptor) was noted in the dentate gyrus, and in the CA2 and CA3 hippocampal layers. In contrast, there was no marked difference in trkB.T1 signal in any hippocampal region. Training induced a significant reduction in trkB.FL mRNA levels solely in aged rats. In contrast, in young and aged rats, trkB.T2 mRNA levels were significantly increased after training. Measurements of proteins revealed that learning significantly increased TrkB.FL content in aged rats. Untrained aged rats presented higher levels of BDNF and brain-derived neurotrophic factor precursor (proBDNF) proteins than young rats. Training strongly increased precursor BDNF metabolism in young and aged rats, resulting in increased levels of proBDNF in the two groups but in old rats the mature BDNF level did not change. This study shows that Wistar rats present age-related differences in the levels of BDNF and TrkB isoforms and that spatial learning differentially modifies some of these parameters in the hippocampus.
The vulnerability to develop alcoholism is dependent on both genetic and environmental factors. The neurobiological mechanisms underlying these factors are not fully understood but individual divergence in the endogenous opioid peptide system may contribute. We have previously reported that early-life experiences can affect endogenous opioids and also adult voluntary ethanol intake. In the present study, this line of research was continued and the effects of long-term voluntary ethanol drinking on the opioid system are described in animals reared in different environmental settings. Rat pups were subjected to 15 min (MS15) or 360 min (MS360) of daily maternal separation during postnatal days 1-21. At 10 weeks of age, male rats were exposed to voluntary ethanol drinking in a four-bottle paradigm with 5%, 10% and 20% ethanol solution in addition to water for 2 months. Age-matched controls received water during the same period. Immunoreactive (ir) Met-enkephalin-Arg6Phe7 (MEAP) and dynorphin B (DYNB) peptide levels were thereafter measured in the pituitary gland and several brain areas. In water-drinking animals, lower ir MEAP levels were observed in the MS360 rats in the hypothalamus, medial prefrontal cortex, striatum and the periaqueductal gray, whereas no differences were seen in ir DYNB levels. Long-term ethanol drinking induced lower ir MEAP levels in MS15 rats in the medial prefrontal cortex and the periaqueductal gray, whereas higher levels were detected in MS360 rats in the hypothalamus, striatum and the substantia nigra. Chronic voluntary drinking affected ir DYNB levels in the pituitary gland, hypothalamus and the substantia nigra, with minor differences between MS15 and MS360. In conclusion, manipulation of the early environment caused changes in the opioid system and a subsequent altered response to ethanol. The altered sensitivity of the opioid peptides to ethanol may contribute to the previously reported differences in ethanol intake between MS15 and MS360 rats.
We reported previously that exposure to repetitive visual stimulation in ordinary adult rats results in acquisition of an enduring increase in magnitude and change in character of visual cortical responses. This sensitization is consistent with experience-dependent neuroplastic changes, but could also reflect alterations in response with behavioral state during testing. The aim of this study was to distinguish the contributions of behavioral state and neural plasticity in this photic-induced sensitization. We used repetitive light-emitting diode flashes delivered monocularly and recorded electrocorticographically in the albino rat in which retino-geniculo-cortical projections are predominantly crossed. This enabled comparison of visual responses of sensitized visual circuitry associated with one eye to responses from effectively unsensitized circuitry associated with the second eye at similar time points in an animal, thus providing an internal control for behavioral state. Following sensitization, monocular stimulation of one eye produced the characteristic high amplitude driven spike-wave response in corresponding contralateral visual cortex, but not ipsilateral cortex. Expression of the sensitized driven response was optimal in the quiet awake state and suppressed during active exploration, drowsiness, or anesthesia. When the animal was in the quiet awake state, producing sensitized responses to stimulation of the first eye, no such response was observed on alternate trials upon stimulation of the second eye. Only after extended exposure of the second eye did the high amplitude driven spike-wave response in contralateral visual cortex develop. The data further suggest some degree of sensitization of ipsilateral pathways may accompany monocular stimulation and that effects of monocular sensitization could include suppression in pathways related to the unstimulated eye. Thus, while behavioral state influences expression of the sensitized driven visual response, the eye-specific nature of the effect provides strong evidence that response enhancement reflects neuroplasticity in visual pathways and not a more general change in behavioral state during testing.
Dopamine and GABA neurons in the ventral tegmental area project to the nucleus accumbens and prefrontal cortex and modulate locomotor and reward behaviors as well as cognitive and affective processes. Both midbrain cell types receive synapses from glutamate afferents that provide an essential control of behaviorally-linked activity patterns, although the sources of glutamate inputs have not yet been completely characterized. We used antibodies against the vesicular glutamate transporter subtypes 1 and 2 (VGlut1 and VGlut2) to investigate the morphology and synaptic organization of axons containing these proteins as putative markers of glutamate afferents from cortical versus subcortical sites, respectively, in rats. We also characterized the ventral tegmental area cell populations receiving VGlut1+ or VGlut2+ synapses according to their transmitter phenotype (dopamine or GABA) and major projection target (nucleus accumbens or prefrontal cortex). By light and electron microscopic examination, VGlut2+ as opposed to VGlut1+ axon terminals were more numerous, had a larger average size, synapsed more proximally, and were more likely to form convergent synapses onto the same target. Both axon types formed predominantly asymmetric synapses, although VGlut2+ terminals more often formed synapses with symmetric morphology. No absolute selectivity was observed for VGlut1+ or VGlut2+ axons to target any particular cell population. However, the synapses onto mesoaccumbens neurons more often involved VGlut2+ terminals, whereas mesoprefrontal neurons received relatively equal synaptic inputs from VGlut1+ and VGlut2+ profiles. The distinct morphological features of VGlut1 and VGlut2 positive axons suggest that glutamate inputs from presumed cortical and subcortical sources, respectively, differ in the nature and intensity of their physiological actions on midbrain neurons. More specifically, our findings imply that subcortical glutamate inputs to the ventral tegmental area expressing VGlut2 predominate over cortical sources of excitation expressing VGlut1 and are more likely to drive the behaviorally-linked bursts in dopamine cells that signal future expectancy or attentional shifting.
The endocannabinoid system (ECS) possesses neuromodulatory functions by influencing the release of various neurotransmitters, including GABA, noradrenaline, dopamine, glutamate and acetylcholine. Even though there are studies indicating similar interactions between the ECS and the serotonergic system, there are no results showing clear evidence for type 1 cannabinoid receptor (CB1) location on serotonergic neurons. In this study, we show by in situ hybridization that a low but significant fraction of serotonergic neurons in the raphe nuclei of mice contains CB1 mRNA as illustrated by the coexpression with the serotonergic marker gene tryptophane hydroxylase 2, the rate limiting enzyme for the serotonin synthesis. Furthermore, by double immunohistochemistry and confocal microscopy, we were able to detect CB1 protein on serotonergic fibers and synapses expressing the serotonin uptake transporter in the hippocampus and the amygdala. Our findings indicate that the CB1-mediated regulation of serotonin release can depend in part on a direct cross-talk between the two systems at single cell level, which might lead to functional implications in the modulation of emotional states.
Over 90% of Rett syndrome (RTT) cases have a mutation in the X-linked gene encoding methyl CpG binding-protein 2 (MeCP2). A mouse model that reprises clinical manifestations of the disease would be valuable for examining disease mechanisms. Here, we characterize physical and behavioral measures, as well as brain region volumes in young adult mice that have mutations in mouse methyl CpG binding-protein 2 gene (Mecp2) to serve as a baseline for other studies. Hemizygous males, which produce no functional protein, exhibit hypoactivity and abnormalities in locomotion, stereotypies, and anxiety reminiscent of the clinical condition. The mutant males also exhibit cognitive deficits in fear conditioning and object recognition relative to wildtypes. Volumetric analyses of male brains revealed a 25% reduction in whole brain volume in mutants relative to wildtypes; regional differences were also apparent. Mutants had decreased volumes in three specific brain regions: the amygdala (39%), hippocampus (21%), and striatum (29%). Heterozygous females, which produce varying amounts of functional protein, displayed a less severe behavioral phenotype. The mutant females exhibit abnormalities in locomotion, anxiety measures, and cognitive deficits in object recognition in an open field. This study provides the first evidence that the abnormal motor and cognitive behavioral phenotype in Mecp2 mice is consistent with specific volume reductions in brain regions associated with these behaviors, and shows how these data parallel the human condition. The Mecp2 mutant mice provide a very good model in which to examine molecular and behavioral mechanisms, as well as potential therapeutic interventions in RTT.
Many membranous organelles and protein complexes are normally transported anterograde within axons to the presynaptic terminal, and details of the motors, adaptors and cargoes have received significant attention. Much less is known about the transport in neurons of non-membrane bound particles, such as mRNAs and their associated proteins. We propose that herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV) can be used to study the detailed mechanisms regulating long distance transport of particles in axons. A critical step in the transmission of HSV from one infected neuron to the next is the polarized anterograde axonal transport of viral DNA from the host infected nerve cell body to the axon terminal. Using the in vivo mouse retinal ganglion cell model infected with wild type virus or a mutant strain that lacks the protein Us9, we found that Us9 protein was necessary for long distance anterograde axonal transport of viral nucleocapsid (DNA surrounded by capsid proteins), but unnecessary for transport of virus envelope. Thus, we conclude that nucleocapsid can be transported independently down axons via a Us9-dependent mechanism.
The aims of this project were to investigate whether inflammation in the orofacial muscle alters mu opioid receptor (MOR) mRNA and protein expressions in trigeminal ganglia (TG), and to assess the contribution of peripheral MORs under acute and inflammatory muscle pain conditions. mRNA and protein levels for MOR were quantified by reverse-transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and Western blot, respectively, from the TG of nave rats, and compared with those from the rats treated with complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) in the masseter. TG was found to express mRNA and protein for MOR, and CFA significantly up-regulated both MOR mRNA and protein by 3 days following the inflammation. The MOR protein up-regulation persisted to day 7 and returned to the baseline level by day 14. We then investigated whether peripheral application of a MOR agonist, D-Ala2, N-Me-Phe4, Gly5-ol-enkephalin acetate salt (DAMGO), attenuates masseter nociception induced by masseteric infusion of hypertonic saline (HS) in lightly anesthetized rats. DAMGO (1, 5, 10 microg) or vehicle was administered directly into the masseter 5-10 min prior to the HS infusion. The DAMGO effects were assessed on mean peak counts (MPC) and overall magnitude as calculated by the area under the curve (AUC) of the HS-evoked behavioral responses. Under this condition, only the highest dose of DAMGO (10 microg) significantly reduced MPC, which was prevented when H-D-Phe-Cys-Tyr-D-Trp-Arg-Thr-Pen-Thr-NH2 (CTAP), a selective MOR antagonist, was co-administered. DAMGO pre-treatment in the contralateral masseter did not attenuate MPC. The same doses of DAMGO administered into CFA-inflamed rats, however, produced a greater attenuation of both MPC and AUC of HS-evoked nocifensive responses. These results demonstrated that activation of peripheral MOR provides greater anti-nociception in inflamed muscle, and that the enhanced MOR effect can be partly explained by significant up-regulation of MOR expression in TG.
Glutamate receptors are the major excitatory receptors in the vertebrate CNS and have been implicated in a number of physiological and pathological processes. Previous work has shown that glutamate receptor function may be modulated by protein kinase A (PKA)-mediated phosphorylation, although the molecular mechanism of this potentiation has remained unclear. We have investigated the phosphorylation of specific amino acid residues in the C-terminal cytoplasmic domain of the rat kainate receptor subtype 6 (GluR6) as a possible mechanism for regulation of receptor function. The C-terminal tail of rat GluR6 can be phosphorylated by PKA on serine residues as demonstrated using [gamma-32P]ATP kinase assays. Whole cell recordings of transiently transfected human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293 cells showed that phosphorylation by PKA potentiates whole cell currents in wildtype GluR6 and that removal of the cytoplasmic C-terminal domain abolishes this potentiation. This suggested that the C-terminal domain may contain residue(s) involved in the PKA-mediated potentiation. Single mutations of each serine residue in the C-terminal domain (S815A, S825A, S828A, and S837A) and a truncation after position 855, which removes all threonines (T856, T864, and T875) from the domain, do not abolish PKA potentiation. However, the S825A/S837A mutation, but no other double mutation, abolishes potentiation. These results demonstrate that phosphorylation of the C-terminal tail of GluR6 by PKA leads to potentiation of whole cell response, and the combination of S825 and S837 in the C-terminal domain is a vital component of the mechanism of GluR6 potentiation by PKA.
Erythropoietin (EPO), a hematopoietic cytokine, has recently been demonstrated to protect nigral dopaminergic neurons in a mouse model of Parkinson's disease (PD). In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that recombinant human erythropoietin (rhEPO) could protect dopaminergic neurons and improve neurobehavioral outcome in a rat model of PD. rhEPO (20 units in 2 microl of vehicle) was stereotaxically injected into one side of the striatum. 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) was injected into the same side 1 day later. Another group of rats received rhEPO (5000 u/kg, i.p.) daily for 8 days, and unilateral injection of 6-OHDA in the striatum 3 days after systemic administration of rhEPO. We observed that intrastriatal administration, but not systemic administration of rhEPO significantly reduced the degree of rotational asymmetry. The rhEPO-treated rats also showed an improvement in skilled forelimb use when compared with control rats. The number of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-immunoreactive (IR) neurons in the ipsilateral substantia nigra (SN) was significantly larger in intrastriatal rhEPO-treated rats than that in control rats. TH-IR fibers in the 6-OHDA-lesioned striatum were also increased in the intrastriatal rhEPO-treated rats when compared with control rats. In addition, there were lower levels of expression of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II antigens and a smaller number of activated microglia in the ipsilateral SN in intrastriatal rhEPO-treated rats than that in control rats at 2 weeks, suggesting that intrastriatal injection of rhEPO attenuated 6-OHDA-induced inflammation in the ipsilateral SN. Our results suggest that intrastriatal administration of rhEPO can protect nigral dopaminergic neurons from cell death induced by 6-OHDA and improve neurobehavioral outcome in a rat model of PD. Anti-inflammation may be one of mechanisms responsible for rhEPO neuroprotection.
A simple synthesis of sulfonamides 4-22 as novel histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors is described. The key synthetic strategies involve N-sulfonylation of L-proline benzyl ester hydrochloride (2) and coupling reaction of N-sulfonyl chloride 3 with amines in high yields. It was found that several compounds showed good cellular potency with the most potent compound 20 exhibiting an IC50 = 2.8 microM in vitro.

Synaptotagmin-1 and -2 are known Ca(2+) sensors for fast synchronous neurotransmitter release, but the potential Ca(2+)-sensor functions of other synaptotagmins in release remain uncharacterized. We now show that besides synaptotagmin-1 and -2, only synaptotagmin-9 (also called synaptotagmin-5) mediates fast Ca(2+) triggering of release. Release induced by the three different synaptotagmin Ca(2+) sensors exhibits distinct kinetics and apparent Ca(2+) sensitivities, suggesting that the synaptotagmin isoform expressed by a neuron determines the release properties of its synapses. Conditional knockout mice producing GFP-tagged synaptotagmin-9 revealed that synaptotagmin-9 is primarily expressed in the limbic system and striatum. Acute deletion of synaptotagmin-9 in striatal neurons severely impaired fast synchronous release without changing the size of the readily-releasable vesicle pool. These data show that in mammalian brain, only synaptotagmin-1, -2, and -9 function as Ca(2+) sensors for fast release, and that these synaptotagmins are differentially expressed to confer distinct release properties onto synapses formed by defined subsets of neurons.
Structural biology now plays a prominent role in addressing questions central to understanding how excitable cells function. Although interest in the insights gained from the definition and dissection of macromolecular anatomy is high, many neurobiologists remain unfamiliar with the methods employed. This primer aims to help neurobiologists understand approaches for probing macromolecular structure and where the limits and challenges remain. Using examples of macromolecules with neurobiological importance, the review covers X-ray crystallography, electron microscopy (EM), small-angle X-ray scattering (SAXS), and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) and biophysical methods with which these approaches are often paired: isothermal titration calorimetry (ITC), equilibrium analytical ultracentifugation, and molecular dynamics (MD).
A key question in brain development is how migration of neuronal precursors is guided to establish the ordered laminar layers. In the April 20, 2007 issue of Cell, Guan et al. show that the leading process of migrating cerebellar granule neurons senses repulsive Slit molecules by generating a Ca(2+) wave that propagates to the soma to cause reversal of cell polarity and migration.
Astrocytes undergo elevations in intracellular calcium following activation of metabotropic receptors, which may trigger glutamate secretion and excitation of surrounding neurons. In this issue of Neuron, Fiacco et al. use transgenic mice that express a foreign G(q)-coupled receptor in astrocytes to show that selective stimulation of astrocytes is not sufficient to induce the release of glutamate.
Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we tested whether unconscious information can influence the cognitive control system in the human prefrontal cortex. Volunteers had to prepare to perform either a phonological judgment or a semantic judgment on an upcoming word, based on the instruction given at the beginning of each trial. However, in some trials they were visually primed to prepare for the alternative (i.e., &quot;wrong&quot;) task, and this impaired their performance. This priming effect is taken to depend on unconscious processes because the effect was present even when the volunteers could only discriminate the identity of the primes at chance level. Furthermore, the effect was stronger when the visibility of the prime was near zero than when the visibility of the prime was significantly higher. When volunteers were unconsciously primed to perform the alternative task, there was also decreased neural activity in the brain areas relevant to the instructed task and increased neural activity in the brain areas relevant to the alternative task, which shows that the volunteers were actually engaged in the wrong task, instead of simply being distracted. Activity in the mid-dorsolateral prefrontal cortex was also found to be associated with this unconscious priming effect. These results suggest that the cognitive control system in the prefrontal cortex is not exclusively driven by conscious information, as has been believed previously.
Bitter, sweet, and umami tastants are detected by G-protein-coupled receptors that signal through a common second-messenger cascade involving gustducin, phospholipase C beta2, and the transient receptor potential M5 (TRPM5) ion channel. The mechanism by which phosphoinositide signaling activates TRPM5 has been studied in heterologous cell types with contradictory results. To resolve this issue and understand the role of TRPM5 in taste signaling, we took advantage of mice in which the TRPM5 promoter drives expression of green fluorescent protein and mice that carry a targeted deletion of the TRPM5 gene to unequivocally identify TRPM5-dependent currents in taste receptor cells. Our results show that brief elevation of intracellular inositol trisphosphate or Ca2+ is sufficient to gate TRPM5-dependent currents in intact taste cells, but only intracellular Ca2+ is able to activate TRPM5-dependent currents in excised patches. Detailed study in excised patches showed that TRPM5 forms a nonselective cation channel that is half-activated by 8 microM Ca2+ and that desensitizes in response to prolonged exposure to intracellular Ca2+. In addition to channels encoded by the TRPM5 gene, we found that taste cells have a second type of Ca2+-activated nonselective cation channel that is less sensitive to intracellular Ca2+. These data constrain proposed models for taste transduction and suggest a link between receptor signaling and membrane potential in taste cells.
Metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) modulate neural excitability and network tone in many brain regions. Expression of mGluRs is particularly high in the accessory olfactory bulb (AOB), a CNS structure critical for detecting chemicals that identify kin and conspecifics. Because of its relative simplicity and its direct projection to the hypothalamus, the AOB provides a model system for studying how mGluRs affect the flow of encoded sensory information to downstream areas. We investigated the role of group I mGluRs in synaptic processing in AOB slices and found that under control conditions, recurrent inhibition of principal neurons (mitral cells) was completely eliminated by the mGluR1 antagonist LY367385 [(S)-(+)-alpha-amino-4-carboxy-2 methylbenzeneacetic acid]. In addition, the group I mGluR agonist DHPG [(S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine; 20 microM] induced a dramatic increase in the rate of spontaneous IPSCs. This increase was dependent on voltage-gated calcium channels but persisted even after blockade of ionotropic glutamatergic transmission and sodium channels. Together, these results indicate that mGluR1 plays a critical role in controlling information flow through the AOB and suggest that mGluR1 may be an important locus for experience-dependent changes in synaptic function.
Inhibition generated by granule cells, the most common GABAergic cell type in the olfactory bulb, plays a critical role in shaping the output of the olfactory bulb. However, relatively little is known about the synaptic mechanisms responsible for activating these interneurons in addition to the specialized dendrodendritic synapses located on distal dendrites. Using two-photon guided minimal stimulation in acute rat brain slices, we found that distal and proximal excitatory synapses onto granule cells are functionally distinct. Proximal synapses arise from piriform cortical neurons and facilitate with paired-pulse stimulation, whereas distal dendrodendritic synapses generate EPSCs with slower kinetics that depress with paired stimulation. Proximal cortical feedback inputs can relieve the tonic Mg block of NMDA receptors (NMDARs) at distal synapses and gate dendrodendritic inhibition onto mitral cells. Most excitatory synapses we examined onto granule cells activated both NMDARs and AMPA receptors, whereas a subpopulation appeared to be NMDAR silent. The convergence of two types of excitatory inputs onto GABAergic granule cells provides a novel mechanism for regulating the degree of interglomerular processing of sensory input in the olfactory bulb through piriform cortex/olfactory bulb synaptic interactions.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder, caused by a selective loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra. In PD, the best therapeutic modalities cannot halt the degeneration. The selective hallmark pathology and the lack of effective treatment make PD an appropriate candidate for cell replacement therapy. Adult autologous bone-marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) have been investigated as candidates for cell replacement strategies. Several laboratories, including ours, have induced MSCs into neuron-like cells demonstrating a variety of neuronal markers including dopaminergic characteristics, such as the expression of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). This project aimed to induce MSCs into mature dopamine secreting cells and to generate a bioassay to evaluate the induction. For that purpose, we created a reporter vector containing a promoter of TH, the rate-limiting enzyme in the dopamine synthesis and red fluorescent protein DsRed2. Transfection of human neuroblastoma, dopamine synthesizing, SH-SY5Y cells confirmed the reliability of the constructed reporter plasmid. Following dopaminergic differentiation of the transfected human MSCs cells, TH expressing cells were identified and quantified using flow cytometry. Further study revealed that not only did the differentiated cells activate TH promoter but they also expressed TH protein and secreted dopamine. The reported results indicate that MSCs may be primed in vitro towards a dopaminergic fate offering the promise of innovative therapy for currently incurable human disorders, including PD.
Rhythmic arm cycling leads to suppression of H-reflexes in both leg and arm muscles, and a reduction in the excitability of corticospinal projections to the forearm flexors. It is unknown, however, whether leg cycling modulates excitability in neural projections to the arms. Here we studied the extent to which rhythmic movement of the legs alters reflex (Experiment 1) and corticospinal (Experiment 2) transmission to arm muscles. In experiment 1, flexor carpi radialis (FCR) H-reflex recruitment curves were recorded with the legs static, and during rhythmic leg movement, while the FCR was both contracted and relaxed. The results indicate that rhythmic leg movement suppresses reflex transmission, both when FCR is at rest and during tonic contraction, but that the effect is not phase-dependent. In experiment 2, we used transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to elicit motor-evoked potentials in the contracted and relaxed FCR during static leg, and leg cycling conditions. Sub-threshold TMS was also used to condition H-reflexes in order to provide specific information about cortical excitability during leg cycling. Both resting and tonically contracting arm muscles showed a greater corticospinal excitability during leg cycling than during the static leg condition. The magnitude of TMS facilitation of H-reflexes was similar during leg cycling and rest, suggesting a considerable sub-cortical component to the increased corticospinal excitability. The results suggest a differential regulation of afferent and descending projections to the arms during leg cycling, and are consistent with the idea that there is a loose, but significant, neural coupling between the arms and legs during rhythmic movement.
This study evaluated the therapeutic effect of neural stem cells (NSCs) transplanted into Parkinson's disease (PD) rats. NSCs were identified in vitro, then engrafted into the striatum of the PD rats. The rotational behavior was evaluated 1, 2, 4 and 6 weeks. A significant rotational behavior improvement was observed in PD rats subjected to cell transplantation. Transplanted NSCs not only express Nerve growth factor and Neurotrophin-3 in vitro, but also survive and partly differentiate into tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) positive cells in vivo. The results show that NSCs could be effective for PD treatment and the mechanisms might involve the neurotrophin expression and the neural differentiation.
Hereditary spastic paraplegias (HSPs) are a group of neurodegenerative disorders characterized by progressive spasticity of the lower limbs. Here, we performed a genome-wide linkage analysis on a consanguineous family presenting an autosomal recessive form of HSP associated with mild mental retardation, brainstem dysraphia, and clinically asymptomatic cerebellar atrophy. We have mapped the disease locus SPG32 to chromosome 14q12-q21 within a 30-cM interval, which excludes the atlastin gene.

Null mutations in the IL1-receptor accessory protein-like 1 gene (IL1RAPL1) are responsible for an inherited X-linked form of cognitive impairment. IL1RAPL1 protein physically interacts with neuronal calcium sensor-1 (NCS-1), but the functional impact of the IL1RAPL1/NCS-1 interaction remains unknown. Here, we demonstrate that stable expression of IL1RAPL1 in PC12 cells induces a specific silencing of N-type voltage-gated calcium channels (N-VGCC) activity that explains a secretion deficit observed in these IL1RAPL1 cells. Importantly, this modulation of VGCC activity is mediated by NCS-1. Indeed, a specific loss-of-function of N-VGCC was observed in PC12 cells overexpressing NCS-1, and a total recovery of N-VGCC activity was obtained by a down-regulation of NCS-1 in IL1RAPL1 cells. The functional relevance of the interaction between IL1RAPL1 and NCS-1 was also suggested by the reduction of neurite elongation observed in nerve growth factor (NGF)-treated IL1RAPL1 cells, a phenotype rescued by NCS-1 inactivation. Because both proteins are highly expressed in neurons, these results suggest that IL1RAPL1-related mental retardation could result from a disruption of N-VGCC and/or NCS-1-dependent synaptic and neuronal activities.
Saccadic eye movements cause sudden and global shifts in the retinal image. Rather than causing confusion, however, eye movements expand our sense of space and detail. In macaques, a stable representation of space is embodied by neural populations in intraparietal cortex that redistribute activity with each saccade to compensate for eye displacement, but little is known about equivalent updating mechanisms in humans. We combined noninvasive cortical stimulation with a double-step saccade task to examine the contribution of two human intraparietal areas to transsaccadic spatial updating. Right hemisphere stimulation over the posterior termination of the intraparietal sulcus (IPSp) broadened and shifted the distribution of second-saccade endpoints, but only when the first-saccade was directed into the contralateral hemifield. By interleaving trials with and without cortical stimulation, we show that the shift in endpoints was caused by an enduring effect of stimulation on neural functioning (e.g., modulation of neuronal gain). By varying the onset time of stimulation, we show that the representation of space in IPSp is updated immediately after the first-saccade. In contrast, stimulation of an adjacent IPS site had no such effects on second-saccades. These experiments suggest that stimulation of IPSp distorts an eye position or displacement signal that updates the representation of space at the completion of a saccade. Such sensory-motor integration in IPSp is crucial for the ongoing control of action, and may contribute to visual stability across saccades.

It has been reported that application of substance P (SP) to the medial portion of the entorhinal cortex (EC) induces a powerful antiepileptic effect (Maubach et al. [1998] Neuroscience 83:1047-1062). This effect is presumably mediated via inhibitory interneurons expressing the neurokinin-1 receptor (NK(1)R), but the existence of NK(1)R-expressing inhibitory interneurons in the EC has not yet been reported. The present immunohistochemical study was performed in the rat to examine the existence and distribution of NK(1)R-expressing neurons in the EC as well as any co-expression of other neurotransmitters/neuromodulators known to be associated with inhibitory interneurons: gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), parvalbumin (PARV), calretinin (CT), calbindin (CB), somatostatin (SST), and neuropeptide Y (NPY). Our results indicated that NK(1)R-positive neurons were distributed rather sparsely (especially in the medial EC), primarily in layers II, V, and VI. The results of our double-immunohistochemical staining indicated that the vast majority of NK(1)R-expressing neurons also expressed GABA, SST, and NPY. In addition, CT was co-expressed in a weakly stained subgroup of NK(1)R-expressing neurons, and CB was co-expressed very rarely in the lateral EC, but not in the medial EC. In contrast, SP-immunopositive axons with fine varicosities were distributed diffusely throughout all layers of the EC, appearing to radiate from the angular bundle. SP may be released in a paracrine manner to activate a group of NK(1)R-expressing entorhinal neurons that co-express GABA, SST, and NPY, exerting a profound inhibitory influence on synchronized network activity in the EC.
In a series of studies we showed that menopause in women causes alterations not only in the neuronal expression of estrogen receptors (ER) alpha and beta, but also in local estrogen production in several brain areas and in the rate of neuronal metabolism. Although such changes are clearly brain region-specific, there seems to be no evidence at present for a decrease in neuronal metabolic rate. On the contrary, an increase in the neuronal metabolic activity and in the level of ERalpha in postmenopausal women was noted. In the supraoptic nucleus (SON) that is a major source of plasma arginine-vasopressin (AVP) we found that neuronal metabolic activity as judged from the Golgi apparatus and cell size was markedly enhanced in women after menopause accompanied by an increase in ERalpha and a decrease in ERbeta. Similar changes were noted in the medial mamillary nucleus and in the hippocampus that are involved in the regulation of learning and memory. Recently we aimed at determining whether in addition to the canonical ERalpha and ERbeta, estrogen receptor splice variants lacking entire exons may also be involved in the menopause-associated changes in the human brain. We detected del. 2 (missing exon 2), del. 4 (lacking exon 4), del. 7 (exon 7 absent) and MB1 (deletion of 168 nucleotides in the exon 1) in the frozen hippocampal tissue of 6 women (46, 52, 59, 64, 77 and 83 years of age). No age-related changes were observed for the mentioned splice forms in women of this group.
What role does meaning selection play in word comprehension, and what neural systems support this selection process? Most words have multiple meanings and are therefore ambiguous. This is true of both homonymous words (words that have multiple unrelated meanings) and polysemous words (words that have multiple related meanings). The extant evidence indicates that meaning selection is an integral part of homonym comprehension. However, it is not known whether meaning selection extends to polysemous words, or what neural systems support meaning selection during comprehension. Prior neuroimaging and neuropsychological evidence suggest that the left inferior frontal gyrus (LIFG) may play a role in resolving competition during language processing. We therefore sought to test the hypotheses that meaning selection is part of polysemous word comprehension, and that the LIFG resolves meaning competition during word comprehension. We tested healthy participants on a version of the triplet lexical decision task, with polysemous and homonymous stimuli. Results suggest that the meanings of polysemous words, like the meanings of homonyms, are selected based on context. However, homonymous and polysemous words differed in how meaning frequency affected meaning selection. We then administered the triplet lexical decision task to patients with LIFG damage to examine whether this region plays a role in context-dependent meaning selection. Results support the hypothesis that the LIFG serves as a top-down biasing mechanism that facilitates rapid meaning selection during word comprehension. We conclude that context-dependent meaning selection is an integral part of word comprehension for both homonyms and polysemous words, and that the LIFG facilitates this selection process.
The activation of spinal cord glial cells has been implicated in the development of neuropathic pain upon peripheral nerve injury. The molecular mechanisms underlying glial cell activation, however, have not been clearly elucidated. In this study, we found that damaged sensory neurons induce the expression of tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-1beta, interleukin-6, and inducible nitric-oxide synthase genes in spinal cord glial cells, which is implicated in the development of neuropathic pain. Studies using primary glial cells isolated from toll-like receptor 2 knock-out mice indicate that damaged sensory neurons activate glial cells via toll-like receptor 2. In addition, behavioral studies using toll-like receptor 2 knock-out mice demonstrate that the expression of toll-like receptor 2 is required for the induction of mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia due to spinal nerve axotomy. The nerve injury-induced spinal cord microglia and astrocyte activation is reduced in the toll-like receptor 2 knock-out mice. Similarly, the nerve injury-induced pro-inflammatory gene expression in the spinal cord is also reduced in the toll-like receptor 2 knock-out mice. These data demonstrate that toll-like receptor 2 contributes to the nerve injury-induced spinal cord glial cell activation and subsequent pain hypersensitivity.
A number of studies have demonstrated that adolescent rodents are more sensitive to the rewarding effects of nicotine compared to adults. To help determine the potential brain circuitry involved, we investigated the effect of acute nicotine administration (0.4 or 0.8mg/kg, s.c.) on the expression of c-fos mRNA in the brains of adolescent (P35) and adult (P67-70) male Wistar rats using in situ hybridization. Nicotine administration increased c-fos mRNA expression in several brain regions, including the central amygdala, locus coeruleus, nucleus accumbens core, paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus and lateral septum of adolescent and adult rats. Nicotine increased c-fos mRNA expression more robustly in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, nucleus accumbens shell and ventral tegmental area in adolescent rats. The current results suggest that nicotine may have greater activational effects in brain regions associated with reward in adolescent rats and may help to explain the differences between adolescents and adults in behavioral responses to nicotine.


Resistance to certain scientific ideas derives in large part from assumptions and biases that can be demonstrated experimentally in young children and that may persist into adulthood. In particular, both adults and children resist acquiring scientific information that clashes with common-sense intuitions about the physical and psychological domains. Additionally, when learning information from other people, both adults and children are sensitive to the trustworthiness of the source of that information. Resistance to science, then, is particularly exaggerated in societies where nonscientific ideologies have the advantages of being both grounded in common sense and transmitted by trustworthy sources.



Therapeutic cranial irradiation may result in debilitating cognitive impairments. In human patients these deficits are age and radiation dose-dependent and are attributed to a diminished capability to learn and memorize new tasks and information. Because of the known involvement of the hippocampus in memory consolidation, it is important to identify irradiation-induced changes including alterations in gene expression in this structure. Whole brain irradiation doses of 0, 0.3, 3, 10, or 30 Gray (Gy) were administered to 3-month-old rats in a single session. Twenty-four hours following cranial irradiation, hippocampi were processed for oligonucleotide microarrays analysis. Metallothioneins (MT)-I and -II, heat shock protein (Hsp-27), glial fibrillary acidic protein alpha (GFAP), and c-Fos genes were altered significantly across the various doses of irradiation. A pathway analysis shows that these genes were centered around the immediate early gene myc and tumor suppressor gene (TP53). Our results identified important genes and possible pathways that are altered in the hippocampus in the acute phase following cranial irradiation, and implicate gene pathways important for both learning and memory and apoptosis.
Recent studies have shown that the neural regulation of pair bonding in the monogamous prairie vole (Microtus ochrogaster) is similar to that of drug seeking in more traditional laboratory rodents. Therefore, strong interactions between social behavior and drug reward can be expected. Here, we established the prairie vole as a model for drug studies by demonstrating robust amphetamine-induced conditioned place preferences in this species. For both males and females, the effects of amphetamine were dose-dependent, with females being more sensitive to drug treatment. This study represents the first evidence of drug reward in this species. Future studies will examine the effects of social behavior on drug reward and the underlying neurobiology of such interactions.
Cellular injury can involve the aberrant stimulation of cell cycle proteins in part through activation of phosphodiesterases (PDEs) and downstream expression of cell-cycle components such as cyclin D1. In mature non-proliferating cells activation of the cell cycle can lead to the induction of programmed cell death. In the present study, we investigated the in vitro neuroprotective efficacy and mechanism of action of vinpocetine (PDE1 inhibitor), trequinsin (PDE3 inhibitor), and rolipram (PDE4 inhibitor) in four mechanistically-distinct models of injury to primary rat cortical neurons as related to cell cycle regulation and apoptosis. Cellular injury was induced by hypoxia/hypoglycemia, veratridine (10 microM), staurosporine (1 microM), or glutamate (100 microM), resulting in average neuronal cell death rates of 43-48% as determined by MTT assay. Treatment with each PDE inhibitor (PDEI) resulted in a similar concentration-dependent neuroprotection profile with maximal effective concentrations of 5-10 microM (55-77% neuroprotection) in all four neurotoxicity models. Direct cytotoxicity due to PDE inhibition alone was not observed at concentrations below 100 microM. Further studies indicated that PDEIs can suppress the excitotoxic upregulation of cyclin D1 similar to the effects of flavopiridol, a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, including suppression of pro-apoptotic caspase-3 activity. Overall, these data indicate that PDEIs are broad-spectrum neuroprotective agents acting through modulation of cell cycle elements and may offer a novel mode of therapy against acute injury to the brain.
The purpose of this paper is to examine whether hippocampal acetylcholine (ACh) efflux increases during negative patterning (NP) discrimination tasks. For these tasks, a rat's response was rewarded when either a single stimulus A (tone) or stimulus B (light) was presented, but was not rewarded when the compound stimulus AB (tone+light) was presented to the NP group of rats. An elemental discrimination (E) task was given to another group (E group). In the E group, the rat's response was rewarded when one of two stimuli (e.g., tone) was presented, but not rewarded when the other stimulus (e.g., light) was presented. After reaching a learning criterion, a guide cannula was implanted into dorsal hippocampus under anesthesia. In test sessions, rats were given the same task as before the guide cannula implantation, and ACh efflux was measured. Hippocampal ACh efflux increased during both NP and E tasks. In addition, the magnitude of increase was higher in the NP group than in the E group. Thus, over all our results demonstrate that task difficulty is a critical factor that relates to the difference in ACh efflux in the hippocampus.
Although systemic allopregnanolone (ALLO; a positive modulator of GABA(A) receptors) has been shown to enhance ethanol-reinforced responding and to modulate drinking patterns in rodents, the effects of centrally administered ALLO on ethanol intake are not known. The current work examined the effects of intracranial ALLO on operant ethanol self-administration in food- and water-satiated mice, with a procedure designed to estimate ALLO's influence on appetitive versus consummatory processes. Male C57BL/6J (B6) mice were trained to press an ethanol-appropriate lever by being reinforced with 30-min of continuous access to a 10% ethanol solution. Following surgical implantation of a guide cannula aimed at the lateral ventricle and subsequent habituation to vehicle infusions, ALLO (50-400 ng; ICV) was delivered immediately prior to session start. ALLO doses of 100 and 400 ng were further evaluated for their effects on locomotor behavior within activity chambers. ALLO selectively modulated ethanol intake patterns associated with the onset and maintenance of self-administration, while leaving appetitive (i.e., ethanol seeking) measures unaltered. The effects of ALLO on drinking patterns were dissociable from changes in locomotor behavior, as evidenced by the absence of ALLO's influence on response frequency and horizontal distance traveled. These findings support the premise that manipulations in brain ALLO levels may influence the regulatory processes governing ethanol consumption.
Olfaction plays a fundamental role in feeding behavior, but changes in olfactory acuity according to feeding states have never been precisely demonstrated in animals. The present study assesses the olfactory detection performance of fasted or satiated rats placed under a strictly controlled food-intake regimen. We did this using a conditioned odor aversion (COA) protocol which induced in rats an almost total aversion to an ISO-odorized drink at 10(-5) (1 microl in 100 ml of water). The rats (either fasted or satiated) were then presented with different concentrations of ISO-odorized water to compare their ability to detect and so avoid the ISO drink. In both states, the rats consumed significantly larger volumes of ISO at 10(-10), 10(-9) and 10(-8) than at 10(-5), suggesting lower detection at these three concentrations, although the fasted rats consumed significantly less ISO drink than did the satiated ones, showing better ISO detection at these concentrations. These experiments provide original data demonstrating the expected fact that olfactory sensitivity increases in fasted animals. Since these results were obtained using a neutral odor, we suggest that olfactory acuity increases during fasting, enabling animals to more easily detect both food and environmental odors such as those of predators. This would have an obvious eco-ethological role by increasing the relevance of olfactory inputs when seeking food.
Rats in a runway avoidance task responded to a test shock probe with a period of immobility lasting from 2 to 6s. The shock avoidance-trained group displayed hippocampal theta during the immobility response. The inescapable shock group, in contrast, displayed large amplitude irregular activity (LIA). Following reversal training to escapable shock, all shock avoidance-trained rats responded with LIA and inescapable shock trained rats, reversed to shock avoidance, displayed theta.
The notion that shock or diaschisis is a distinctive stage in the recovery process following brain damage has played a formative role in the characterization of brain injury. For example, damage to the forelimb region of motor cortex results in an acute period of behavioural depression in skilled reaching and other skilled actions followed by improved performance mediated by compensatory movements. Whereas the progression of improvement and the use of compensatory movements in the chronic period of recovery is well-documented, temporal aspects of behaviour during the acute period of depression of behaviour are relatively unstudied. The present study examined the temporal scheduling of reach-attempts by rats attempting to gain single pellets of food from a shelf in a skilled reaching task. Pretrained rats received contralateral-to-the-pretrained limb forelimb motor cortex lesions. Control lesions included contralateral-to-the-pretrained limb parietal cortex lesions, or ipsilateral-to-the-pretrained limb motor cortex lesions. Frame-by-frame video analysis of behaviour showed a decrease in reaching attempts as a function of successive approaches and attempts to grasp the food over the first few postsurgical days in rats with contralateral-to-the-pretrained limb motor cortex lesions. A similar approach-dependent decrease in attempts did not occur after parietal or ipsilateral-to-the-pretrained limb motor cortex lesions. The decrease in responding occurred only during acute testing and was not observed in rats first tested after 8 days of postoperative recovery. The findings are discussed in relation to the ideas that: (1) the stroke subject is an active participant in modifying behaviour to cope with injury; (2) learned nonuse contributes to behaviour in the acute postinjury period following motor cortex injury; (3) diaschisis inadequately accounts for poststoke behaviour.
This study examined photoperiodic regulation of affective behaviours in collared lemmings (Dicrostonyx groenlandicus). Male and female lemmings were housed in either long (LD 22:2), intermediate (LD 16:8), or short days (LD 8:16) for 9 weeks. Exposure to short days induced moult to a winter pelage and gonadal regression in male, but not female, lemmings. Lemmings housed in long days reduced anxiety-like responses in the elevated plus maze. Depressive-like behaviours were decreased in the intermediate photoperiod relative to other photoperiod groups.

Results from neuroimaging studies of long-term memory (LTM) encoding have contributed to the view that the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (VLPFC) contributes to successful LTM formation, whereas the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) does not. We hypothesized that the DLPFC does contribute to LTM, but under specific circumstances. That is, the DLPFC may be critical for building relationships between items during on-line processing, and this may promote LTM for associations between items. We used event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to test this hypothesis by examining brain activity during sequential encoding of unrelated word pairs. During presentation of the second (&quot;target&quot;) word in each pair, subjects either made a semantic judgment specific to the target word (&quot;item-specific&quot; trials), or a semantic judgment that involved a comparison between the target word and the first word in the pair (&quot;relational&quot; trials). Behaviorally, recognition memory for target words was equivalent between the two trial types but associative recognition of studied word pairs was significantly greater for relational trials. fMRI results showed that DLPFC activity was greater during relational compared with item-specific encoding and that DLPFC activity predicted successful memory for associations but not successful item memory. Activity in the VLPFC was also greater for relational compared with item-specific encoding, but VLPFC activation predicted successful memory for both associations and items. These results support the view that the DLPFC may contribute to LTM through its role in active processing of relationships during encoding, whereas the VLPFC may have a more general role in promoting successful LTM formation.
Dopaminergic drugs affect a variety of cognitive processes, but the direction and extent of effects vary across individuals and tasks. Paradoxical effects are observed, by which the same drug causes cognitive enhancing as well as adverse effects. Here, we demonstrate that individual differences in impulsive personality account for the contrasting effects of dopaminergic drugs on working memory and associated frontostriatal activity. We observed that the dopamine D2 receptor agonist bromocriptine improved the flexible updating (switching) of relevant information in working memory in high-impulsive subjects, but not in low-impulsive subjects. These behavioral effects in high-impulsive subjects accompanied dissociable effects on frontostriatal activity. Bromocriptine modulated the striatum during switching but not during distraction from relevant information in working memory. Conversely, the lateral frontal cortex was modulated by bromocriptine during distraction but not during switching. The present results provide a key link between dopamine D2 receptor function, impulsivity, and frontostriatal activity during component processes of working memory.
Activation of rod photoreceptors by light induces a massive redistribution of the heterotrimeric G-protein transducin. In darkness, transducin is sequestered within the membrane-enriched outer segments of the rod cell. In light, it disperses throughout the entire neuron. We show here that redistribution of rod transducin by light requires activation, but it does not require ATP. This observation rules out participation of molecular motors in the redistribution process. In contrast to the light-stimulated redistribution of rod transducin in rods, cone transducin in cones does not redistribute during activation. Remarkably, when cone transducin is expressed in rods, it does undergo light-stimulated redistribution. We show here that the difference in subcellular localization of activated rod and cone G-proteins correlates with their affinity for membranes. Activated rod transducin releases from membranes, whereas activated cone transducin remains bound to membranes. A synthetic peptide that dissociates G-protein complexes independently of activation facilitates dispersion of both rod and cone transducins within the cells. This peptide also facilitates detachment of both G-proteins from the membranes. Together, these results show that it is the dissociation state of transducin that determines its localization in photoreceptors. When rod transducin is stimulated, its subunits dissociate, leave outer segment membranes, and equilibrate throughout the cell. Cone transducin subunits do not dissociate during activation and remain sequestered within the outer segment. These findings indicate that the subunits of some heterotrimeric G-proteins remain associated during activation in their native environments.
Neurons in the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) not only provide feedforward input to primary visual cortex (V1), but also receive robust feedback from the cortex. Accordingly, visual processing in the LGN is continuously influenced by previous patterns of activity. This study examines the temporal properties of feedforward and feedback pathways between the LGN and V1 in the macaque monkey to provide a lower bound on how quickly the cortex can influence the LGN. In so doing, we identified a subclass of corticogeniculate neurons that receives direct, suprathreshold input from the LGN that is similar in latency to that directed to other recipient neurons (4.2 +/- 0.4 vs 4.0 +/- 0.2 ms). These neurons also provide feedback to the LGN that is significantly shorter in latency than that supplied by corticogeniculate neurons lacking LGN input (5.1 +/- 1.3 vs 11.1 +/- 2.3 ms, respectively). Across our sample of corticogeniculate neurons, the shortest combined visual response latency and feedback latency was 37 ms (mean, 52.5 +/- 3.8 ms), indicating that visual signals can rapidly travel from the periphery to the cortex and back to the LGN.
Human parietal cortex is implicated in a wide variety of sensory and cognitive functions, yet its precise organization remains unclear. Visual field maps provide a potential structural basis for descriptions of functional organization. Here, we detail the topography of a series of five maps of the contralateral visual hemifield within human posterior parietal cortex. These maps are located along the medial bank of the intraparietal sulcus (IPS) and are revealed by direct visual stimulation during functional magnetic resonance imaging, allowing these parietal regions to be routinely and reliably identified simultaneously with occipital visual areas. Two of these maps (IPS3 and IPS4) are novel, whereas two others (IPS1 and IPS2) have previously been revealed only by higher-order cognitive tasks. Area V7, a previously identified visual map, is observed to lie within posterior IPS and to share a foveal representation with IPS1. These parietal maps are reliably observed across scan sessions; however, their precise topography varies between individuals. The multimodal organization of posterior IPS mirrors this variability in visual topography, with complementary tactile activations found immediately adjacent to the visual maps both medially and laterally. These visual maps may provide a practical framework in which to characterize the functional organization of human IPS.
Intracellular recordings of cortical neurons in awake cat and monkey show a depolarized state, sustained firing, and intense subthreshold synaptic activity. It is not known what conductance dynamics underlie such activity and how neurons process information in such highly stochastic states. Here, we combine intracellular recordings in awake and naturally sleeping cats with computational models to investigate subthreshold dynamics of conductances and how conductance dynamics determine spiking activity. We show that during both wakefulness and the &quot;up-states&quot; of natural slow-wave sleep, membrane-potential activity stems from a diversity of combinations of excitatory and inhibitory synaptic conductances, with dominant inhibition in most of the cases. Inhibition also provides the largest contribution to membrane potential fluctuations. Computational models predict that in such inhibition-dominant states, spikes are preferentially evoked by a drop of inhibitory conductance, and that its signature is a transient drop of membrane conductance before the spike. This pattern of conductance change is indeed observed in estimates of spike-triggered averages of synaptic conductances during wakefulness and slow-wave sleep up states. These results show that activated states are defined by diverse combinations of excitatory and inhibitory conductances with pronounced inhibition, and that the dynamics of inhibition is particularly effective on spiking, suggesting an important role for inhibitory processes in both conscious and unconscious cortical states.
Proceptive and receptive behaviors of female rodents, such as golden hamsters, are often regulated by changes in circulating levels of ovarian hormones. However, less is known about how ovarian hormones might regulate female hamster's attraction and preference for volatile odor from males. To evaluate this, we assessed female preference by recording investigation and proximity to male and female volatile odorants in a Y-maze across all days of the estrous cycle (Experiments 1 and 2) or following ovariectomy (Experiment 3). In Experiment 1, female subjects were tested four times, once on each day of their estrous cycle. Females showed a preference for male odors on diestrus day 1 and to a lesser degree on proestrus, but showed no preference on the day of behavioral estrus. Irrespective of cycle day, preference was apparent in the first few days of testing and disappeared by the fourth day, suggesting that repeated testing attenuated female preference. To avoid this problem, in Experiment 2 each animal was tested only on one day of the 4-day estrous cycle. Female preference for male volatile odors over those from females was observed on each day of their estrous cycle, including estrus. Moreover, following gonadectomy (Experiment 3) female hamsters still preferred male volatile odors to those of females. Taken together, this suggests that circulating levels of gonadal hormones do not influence preference for male volatile odors in female hamsters.
Epidemiological data support a strong link between stress, stress-related disorders and risk for alcoholism. However, precisely how stress might impact sensitivity to the intoxicating effects of ethanol or the willingness to voluntary consume ethanol remains unclear. The present study assessed the effects of daily exposure to forced swim stress on subsequent sensitivity to the sedative/hypnotic, hypothermic, ataxic (measured using accelerating rotarod), and anxiolytic-like (measured using elevated plus-maze) effects of ethanol, and ethanol consumption and preference in a two-bottle choice paradigm, in male C57BL/6J mice. Stress effects on the sedative/hypnotic effects of the barbiturate pentobarbital were also tested. Results showed that chronic (fourteen days) but not acute (one or three days) swim stress significantly potentiated the sedative/hypnotic and hypothermic effects of 4 g/kg, but not 3 g/kg, ethanol. The sedative/hypnotic effects of pentobarbital were attenuated by chronic swim stress. Irrespective of chronicity, swim stress did not alter the ataxic or anxiolytic-like effects of ethanol, or alter ethanol self-administration either during or after stress. These data provide further evidence that stress alters the intoxicating effects of high doses of ethanol in a behaviorally selective manner.
Despite evidence for a high concentration of corticosteroid receptors in prefrontal cortex, little research has examined the relationship between cortisol and prefrontal cortical function other than working memory. We investigated the association between salivary cortisol levels and performance on the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST) of executive function and on a test of mental rotation (to test specificity of the relationship between cortisol and cognitive performance) in men and women (n=116, ages 17-22). Higher cortisol levels at the beginning of the test session were associated with more errors in women on the WCST and fewer errors in men. However, men's cortisol levels were lower than women's at this point in time. Cortisol levels were not associated with mental rotation scores. Our results suggest that individual differences in cortisol levels among participants upon arrival to a test situation influence performance on a task involving the prefrontal cortex.
Thompson and colleagues have demonstrated that the lateral interpositus nucleus of the cerebellum is the essential locus for the classical conditioning of the somatic eyeblink response. Preliminary studies reported that lesioning the cerebellar interpositus nucleus ipsilateral to the side of training also appears to abolish conditioned limb flexion responses. Previous studies have suggested that the interpositus nucleus is somatotopically organized with the eye being represented laterally and the hindlimb medially. Presently, we employed a double dissociation paradigm to examine the effects of muscimol (a GABA(A) agonist) injections on eyeblink versus limb flexion conditioned responses in the ipsilateral cerebellar interpositus nucleus of New Zealand white rabbits. For eyeblink conditioning, the conditioned stimulus (CS) was a 14-V lamp bulb and the unconditioned stimulus (US) was a 3-psi corneal airpuff to the left eye. For limb flexion conditioning, the CS was a 1-kHz, 85-95 dB SPL tone and the US was a 3- to 5-mA shock to the upper left hindlimb. Upon training on both responses to a 60-100% criterion, the rabbits were then tested on eyeblink and limb flexion responses after injections of muscimol (0.1-0.3 mul of a 0.01- to 1.0-M solution) into either the lateral (eyeblink) or medial (limb flexion) interpositus nucleus. We have been able to successfully decrease or abolish the percent conditioned responses (CRs) of both the eyeblink and limb flexion conditioning selectively without affecting the other. These results thus lend further support for the notion of the existence of a somatotopic map in the interpositus nucleus for learning.
Neuropeptides are widespread signal molecules that display a great chemical and functional diversity. Predictions of neuropeptide cleavage from precursor proteins are not always correct, and thus, biochemical identification is essential. Single-cell analysis is valuable to identify peptides processed from a single precursor, but also to determine coexpression of further neuropeptides from other precursors. We have developed an approach to isolate single identified neurons from the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster for mass spectrometric analysis. By using Gal4 promoter lines to drive green fluorescent protein under UAS control, we identified specific peptidergic neurons. These neurons were isolated singly under a fluorescence microscope and subjected to MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry. Two Gal4 lines were used here to identify pigment-dispersing factor (PDF) and hugin-expressing neurons. We found that the large PDF expressing clock neurons only give rise to a single peptide, PDF. The three different classes of hugin expressing neurons all display the same mass signal, identical to pyrokinin-2. The other peptide predicted from the hugin precursor, hugin gamma, was not detected in any of the cells. Single-cell peptidomics is a powerful tool in Drosophila neuroscience since Gal4 drivers can be produced for all known neuropeptide genes and thus provide detailed information about neuropeptide complements in neurons of interest.
TRPV1 is a non-selective cationic channel that is activated by capsaicin, acidic pH and thermal stimuli. Sustained TRPV1 channel activation causes severe cytotoxicity that leads to cell death. In this study, we investigated the mechanisms of capsaicin-induced cytotoxicity in HEK293 cells stably expressing TRPV1 with a focus on protein synthesis regulation and cytoskeleton reorganization. Capsaicin inhibited protein synthesis in TRPV1-expressing HEK cells with an IC(50) of 15.6nM and depolymerized microtubules within 10min after exposure. These effects were completely blocked by pretreatment of cells with the TRPV1 antagonist A-425619, both in the presence and absence of extracellular calcium. Protein synthesis inhibition induced by capsaicin was not a result of eIF2alpha hyperphosphorylation, but rather closely correlated with cytosolic calcium elevation caused by calcium flux through cell surface and intracellular TRPV1, and/or ER calcium depletion through intracellular TRPV1. Microtubule dependent cell process shrinkage may serve as a mechanism for rapid alteration of the neurotransmission network upon TRPV1 activation. Taken together, the present studies demonstrate that intracellular pool of TRPV1 plays an important role in regulating cell morphology and viability upon receptor activation.
Microelectrode arrays (MEAs) provide a means to investigate the electrophysiological behavior of neuronal systems through the measurements from neuronal culture preparations. Changes in activity patterns of neuronal networks are usually detected by applying neural chemicals. Because of the difficulties of fabricating the arrays, and the delicate and less reliable properties of cortical neurons, MEA-based systems with cortical neuronal networks for neurophamacological applications are technically difficult, therefore restricting their utility. Here, we report a new approach to the development of such MEA-based system with sensitive and durable MEAs conveniently fabricated and the culture conditions optimized. Upon growth differentiation, cortical neurons, cultured directly on MEAs, reach a developmentally stable and reliable activity state. With this system, we monitored the global spontaneous activities of neuronal networks and demonstrated the fine discrimination for specific substances and unique property of cortical neurons, which validated both the applicability and necessity of such system in pharmacological bioassay.

In many animals, the secreted Hedgehog (Hh) signaling proteins play important roles during development and in adults. Studies in both flies and vertebrates indicate that Hh functions as a morphogen to elicit different responses at distinct concentration thresholds. In vertebrates, Gli proteins are the primary transcriptional mediators of Hh target genes. However, the mechanisms that implement specific genetic responses to graded Hh-Gli signaling are only just beginning to be understood. In particular, it is unclear whether target gene responses are determined solely by the ambient levels of pathway activity, or if other pathways or factors function to amplify or attenuate the response to this signal to provide an additional level of context that permits a more fine-tuned outcome. Here, I will review recent evidence suggesting that the response of some Hh-Gli target genes in the CNS is regulated by the activity of another important extracellular signal, the canonical Wnt pathway. The possibility that the Hh and Wnt pathways interact at the transcriptional level has broad significance for understanding normal embryogenesis and diagnosing and treating the numerous developmental disorders and cancers that involve these two pathways. Thus, while Hh-Gli signals provide important information, it is likely that they receive assistance from other &quot;instructors&quot;.
The extent to which areas in the visual cerebral cortex differ in their ability to support perceptions has been the subject of considerable speculation. Experiments examining the activity of individual neurons have suggested that activity in later stages of the visual cortex is more closely linked to perception than that in earlier stages [1-9]. In contrast, results from functional imaging, transcranial magnetic stimulation, and lesion studies have been interpreted as showing that earlier stages are more closely coupled to perception [10-15]. We examined whether neuronal activity in early and later stages differs in its ability to support detectable signals by measuring behavioral thresholds for detecting electrical microstimulation in different cortical areas in two monkeys. By training the animals to perform a two-alternative temporal forced-choice task, we obtained criterion-free thresholds from five visual areas--V1, V2, V3A, MT, and the inferotemporal cortex. Every site tested yielded a reliable threshold. Thresholds varied little within and between visual areas, rising gradually from early to later stages. We similarly found no systematic differences in the slopes of the psychometric detection functions from different areas. These results suggest that neuronal signals of similar magnitude evoked in any part of visual cortex can generate percepts.
Developmental signaling by retinoic acid (RA) is thought to be an innovation essential for the origin of the chordate body plan. The larvacean urochordate Oikopleura dioica maintains a chordate body plan throughout life, and yet its genome appears to lack genes for RA synthesis, degradation, and reception. This suggests the hypothesis that the RA-machinery was lost during larvacean evolution, and predicts that Oikopleura development has become independent of RA-signaling. This prediction raises the problem that the anterior-posterior organization of a chordate body plan can be developed without the classical morphogenetic role of RA. To address this problem, we performed pharmacological treatments and analyses of developmental molecular markers to investigate whether RA acts in anterior-posterior axial patterning in Oikopleura embryos. Results revealed that RA does not cause homeotic posteriorization in Oikopleura as it does in vertebrates and cephalochordates, and showed that a chordate can develop the phylotypic body plan in the absence of the classical morphogenetic role of RA. A comparison of Oikopleura and ascidian evidence suggests that the lack of RA-induced homeotic posteriorization is a shared derived feature of urochordates. We discuss possible relationships of altered roles of RA in urochordate development to genomic events, such as rupture of the Hox-cluster, in the context of a new understanding of chordate phylogeny.
The change in the number of post-synaptic alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA)-type glutamatergic receptors (AMPARs) by neuronal activity is recognized as a molecular basis of synaptic plasticity. Here, we show that Ca(2+) transients evoked by brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) induce translocation of a subunit of AMPAR, GluR1, but not NMDAR, to the post-synaptic membrane in cultured cortical pyramidal neurons. Among BDNF-induced Ca(2+) transients, that dependent on IP3R was fully required, while store-operated calcium influx through the non-selective cation channel TRPC (transient receptor potential canonical) was partially required for the GluR1 up-regulation, suggesting that spatial and temporal calcium signaling regulate translocation of GluR1 to the polarized membrane domain.
In noctuid moths cuticular pigmentation is regulated by the pyrokinin/pheromone biosynthesis activating neuropeptide (PK/PBAN) family, which also mediates a variety of other functions in moths and other insects. Numerous studies have shown that these neuropeptides exert their functions through activation of the PBAN receptor (PBAN-R), with subsequent Ca(2+) influx, followed by either activation of cAMP or direct activation of downstream kinases. Recently, several PBAN-Rs have been identified, all of which are from the pheromone gland of adult female moths, but evidence shows that functional PK/PBAN-Rs can also be expressed in insect larvae, where they mediate melanization and possibly other functions (e.g., diapause). Here, we identified a gene encoding a G-protein-coupled receptor from the 5th instar larval tissue of the moth Spodoptera littoralis. The cDNA of this gene contains an open reading frame with a length of 1050 nucleotides, which translates to a 350-amino acid, 42-kDa protein that shares 92% amino acid identity with Helicoverpa zea and Helicoverpa armigera PBAN-R, 81% with Bombyx mori PBAN-R and 72% with Plutella xylostella PBAN-R. The S. littoralis PBAN-R gene was stably expressed in NIH3T3 cells and transiently in HEK293 cells. We show that it mediates the dose-dependent PBAN-induced intracellular Ca(2+) response and activation of the MAP kinase via a PKC-dependent but Galphai-independent signaling mechanism. Other PK/PBAN family peptides (pheromonotropin and a C-terminally PBAN-derived peptide PBAN(28-33)NH(2)) also triggered MAP kinase activation. This receptor, together with the previously cloned PBAN-R, may facilitate our understanding of the cell-specific responses and functional diversities of this diverse neuropeptide family.
The permanent modification of soluble and protein-associated tyrosine by nitration results in the formation of 3-nitrotyrosine, which can be used as a marker of &quot;nitro-oxidative&quot; damage to proteins. Based on the analysis of patient materials, over 40 different diseases and/or conditions have been linked to increased nitration of tyrosine. They include many cardiovascular diseases, conditions associated with immunological reactions and neurological diseases. In this article we review the existing chromatographic and mass spectrometric methods for quantitative measurements of 3-nitrotyrosine in different human biological samples including plasma, either from the free amino acid pool or from hydrolyzed proteins from different matrices.
Many different methodologies have been applied for the detection of S-nitrosothiols (RSNOs) in human biological fluids. One unsatisfactory outcome of the last 14 years of research focused on this issue is that a general consensus on reference values for physiological RSNO concentration in human blood is still missing. Consequently, both RSNO physiological function and their role in disease have not yet been clarified. Here, a summary of the values measured for RSNOs in erythrocytes, plasma, and other biological fluids is provided, together with a critical review of the most widely used analytical methods. Furthermore, some possible methodological drawbacks, responsible for the highlighted discrepancies, are evidenced.
Celiac disease is an immune-mediated disorder triggered by ingestion of wheat gliadin and related proteins in genetically susceptible individuals. In addition to the characteristic enteropathy, celiac disease is associated with various extraintestinal manifestations, including neurologic complications such as neuropathy, ataxia, seizures, and neurobehavioral changes. The cause of the neurologic manifestations is unknown, but autoimmunity resulting from molecular mimicry between gliadin and nervous system proteins has been proposed to play a role. In this study, we sought to investigate the immune reactivity of the anti-gliadin Ab response toward neural proteins. We characterized the binding of affinity-purified anti-gliadin Abs from immunized animals to brain proteins by one- and two-dimensional gel electrophoresis, immunoblotting, and peptide mass mapping. The major immunoreactive protein was identified as synapsin I. Anti-gliadin Abs from patients with celiac disease also bound to the protein. Such cross-reactivity may provide clues into the pathogenic mechanism of the neurologic deficits that are associated with gluten sensitivity.
The mechanisms linking HIV-1 replication, macrophage biology, and multinucleated giant cell formation are incompletely understood. With the advent of functional proteomics, the characterization, regulation, and transformation of HIV-1-infected macrophage-secreted proteins can be ascertained. To these ends, we performed proteomic analyses of culture fluids derived from HIV-1 infected monocyte-derived macrophages. Robust reorganization, phosphorylation, and exosomal secretion of the cytoskeletal proteins profilin 1 and actin were observed in conjunction with productive viral replication and giant cell formation. Actin and profilin 1 recruitment to the macrophage plasma membrane paralleled virus-induced cytopathicity, podosome formation, and cellular fusion. Poly-l-proline, an inhibitor of profilin 1-mediated actin polymerization, inhibited cytoskeletal transformations and suppressed, in part, progeny virion production. These data support the idea that actin and profilin 1 rearrangement along with exosomal secretion affect viral replication and cytopathicity. Such events favor the virus over the host cell and provide insights into macrophage defense mechanisms used to contain viral growth and how they may be affected during progressive HIV-1 infection.
Determination of single unit spikes from multiunit spike trains plays a critical role in neurophysiological coding studies which require information about the precise timing of events underlying the neural codes that are the basis of behavior. Searching for optimal spike detection strategies has therefore been the focus of many studies over the past two decades. In this study we describe and implement an algorithm for the optimal real time detection and classification of neural spikes. The algorithm consists of three steps: noise analysis, template generation and real time detection and classification. The first step involves estimating the background noise statistics. In this step, a &quot;cap-fitting&quot; algorithm is used to automatically detect a spike free segment and then the mean, standard deviation and autocorrelation function of the noise are computed. The second step involves generating optimal templates of the spikes from a segment containing both noise and multiunit activity. In this step, a generalized matched filter is used to isolate a set of preliminary spikes from the noise. The first principal component of previously recorded templates is used as the deterministic signal. The preliminary spikes are then clustered in a sub-space spanned by the first three principal components to form new templates. The third step uses these templates for the real time spike detection and classification. In this step the incoming data are projected into a lower dimensional space that is designed to maximally separate the signal from the noise energy. This algorithm provides an accurate estimate of the signal to noise ratio and provides an accurate estimate of spike times and spike shapes.
The reliability of the afterhyperpolarization (AHP) time course, as estimated by the interval death rate (IDR) analysis was evaluated both within and between investigators. The IDR analysis uses the firing history of a single motor unit train at low tonic firing rates to calculate an estimate of the AHP time course [Matthews PB. Relationship of firing intervals of human motor units to the trajectory of post-spike after-hyperpolarization and synaptic noise. J Physiol 1996;492:597-628]. Single motor unit trains were collected from the tibialis anterior (TA) to determine intra-rater reliability (within investigator). Data from the first dorsal interosseus (FDI), collected in a previous investigation [Gossen ER, Ivanova TD, Garland SJ. The time course of the motoneurone afterhyperpolarization is related to motor unit twitch speed in human skeletal muscle. J Physiol 2003;552:657-64], were used to examine the inter-rater reliability (between investigators). The lead author was blinded to the original time constants and file identities for the re-analysis. The intra-rater reliability of the AHP time constant in the TA data was high (r(2)=0.88; p&lt;0.001; ICC=0.91). The inter-rater reliability for the FDI data was also strong (r(2)=0.92; p&lt;0.001; ICC=0.95). The standard error of measurement was 0.61 ms for the TA and 0.55 ms for FDI. It is concluded that the interval death rate analysis is a reliable tool for estimating the AHP time course with experienced investigators.
Visualization of dendritic spines is an important tool for researches on structural synaptic plasticity. Fluorescent labeling of the dendrites and spines followed by confocal microscopy permits imaging a large population of dendritic spines with a higher resolution. We sought to establish an optimal protocol to label neurons in cortical slices with the carbocyanine dye DiI for confocal microscopic imaging of dendritic spines. DiI finely labeled dendrites and spines in slices prefixed (by cardiac perfusion) with 1.5% paraformaldehyde to the similar extent that could be achieved in live preparation. In contrast, fixation with 4% paraformaldehyde severely compromised dye diffusion. Confocal microscopy showed that structural integrity of dendrites and spines was preserved much better in lightly (1.5%) fixed slices than those prepared without fixation. Quantitative measurement revealed that spine density was lower in live slices than that counted in lightly fixed slices, suggesting that fixation is necessary for an adequate evaluation of spine density. The quality of confocal microscopic images obtained from lightly fixed slices allowed us to observe distinctive morphologies such as branched spines and dendritic filopodium, which may be indicative of structural changes at synapses. This method will thus be useful for studying structural synaptic plasticity.
The paper presents a novel pattern recognition approach for the classification of single-trial movement-related cortical potentials (MRCPs) generated by variations of force-related parameters during voluntary tasks. The feature space was built from the coefficients of a discrete dyadic wavelet transformation. Mother wavelet parameterization allowed the tuning of basis functions to project the signals. The mother wavelet was optimized to minimize the classification error estimated from the training set. Classification was performed with a support vector machine (SVM) approach with optimization of the width of a Gaussian kernel and of the regularization parameter. The efficacy of the optimization procedures was representatively shown on electroencephalographic recordings from two subjects who performed unilateral isometric plantar flexions at two target torques and two rates of torque development. The proposed classification method was tested on four pairs of classes corresponding to the change in only one of the two parameters of the task. Misclassification rate (test set) in the classification of 1-s EEG activity immediately before the onset of the tasks was reduced from 50.8+/-2.9% with worst wavelet and nearest representative classifier, to 40.2+/-7.3% with optimal wavelet and nearest representative classifier, and to 15.8+/-3.4% with optimal wavelet and SVM with optimization of the kernel and regularization parameter. The proposed pattern recognition method is promising for classification of MRCPs modulated by variations of force-related parameters.
Currently, measuring ethanol behaviors in flies depends on expensive image analysis software or time intensive experimental observation. We have designed an automated system for the collection and analysis of locomotor behavior data, using the IEEE 1394 acquisition program dvgrab, the image toolkit ImageMagick and the programming language Perl. In the proposed method, flies are placed in a clear container and a computer-controlled camera takes pictures at regular intervals. Digital subtraction removes the background and non-moving flies, leaving white pixels where movement has occurred. These pixels are tallied, giving a value that corresponds to the number of animals that have moved between images. Perl scripts automate these processes, allowing compatibility with high-throughput genetic screens. Four experiments demonstrate the utility of this method, the first showing heat-induced locomotor changes, the second showing tolerance to ethanol in a climbing assay, the third showing tolerance to ethanol by scoring the recovery of individual flies, and the fourth showing a mouse's preference for a novel object. Our lab will use this method to conduct a genetic screen for ethanol-induced hyperactivity and sedation, however, it could also be used to analyze locomotor behavior of any organism.
The present report describes a setup for simultaneously measuring anxiety-like behaviors and locomotor activity in mice. Animals are placed in a brightly lit, standard automated open-field (OF) in which a rectangular ceramic platform 8 cm high covers one quadrant of the floor. Mice preferred to stay under the platform, avoiding the area with bright illumination. Activities under and outside the platform were measured for 5 min. Chlordiazepoxide and buspirone dose-dependently increased time spent outside the platform (L-Time) and the light distance to total OF distance ratio (L:T-TD) in both genders without changing total OF distance. By contrast, amphetamine decreased L-Time and L:T-TD in males, thus displaying an anxiogenic effect. Imipramine was without selective effect on L-Time or L:T-TD, but decreased total OF distance at the highest dose indicative of a sedative effect. Drug effects were also evaluated in the OF without platform using conventional anxiety measures. Introduction of the platform into the OF apparatus strongly enhanced the sensitivity to anxiolytics. Comparison of strains differing in activity or anxiety levels showed that L-Time and L:T-TD can be used as measures of anxiety-like behavior independent of locomotor activity. Changes in motor activity are reflected in the total distance traveled under and outside the platform. Therefore, the platform test is fully automated, sensitive to both anxiolytic and anxiogenic effects of drugs and genetic phenotypes with little evidence of gender-specific responses, and can be easily utilized by most laboratories measuring behavior.
Complex cognitive operations such as memory formation and decision-making are thought to be mediated not by single, isolated brain structures but by multiple, connected brain areas. To facilitate studies on the neural communication between connected brain structures, we developed a multi-electrode microdrive for chronically recording ensembles of neurons in two different brain areas simultaneously. The &quot;split drive&quot; contains 14 independently movable microdrivers that were designed to hold tetrodes and to permit day-to-day adjustment of dorsoventral position in the brain. The limited weight of the drive allowed rats to adjust well to the headstage after recovering from surgery and permitted stable recording sessions across at least several weeks. In addition to describing the design and assembly of the split drive, we also discuss some important individual parts of microdrives used for tetrode recordings in general. Furthermore, the split drive was applied to two widely separated and connected brain structures, the hippocampus and ventral striatum. From these two areas, stable ensemble recordings were conducted in rats performing a reward-searching task on a triangular track, yielding group sizes of about 15 and 25 units in the dorsal hippocampus and ventral striatum, respectively.
We have compared the performance of two methods designed to simultaneously detect two different mRNAs within a single brain section by dual ISH. Specific mRNA riboprobes labeled with biotin and digoxigenin were simultaneously hybridized and visualized using either brightfield or fluorescence microscopy. For brightfield visualization, the biotin-labeled riboprobe was detected with a peroxidase chromogen, whereas, an alkaline phosphatase substrate was used for the detection of the digoxigenin-labeled riboprobe. Dual fluorescent ISH involved the detection of the biotin-labeled riboprobe with an Alexa((R))488-conjugated streptavidin followed by the visualization of the digoxigenin-labeled riboprobe with the red fluorescent substrate HNPP. The dual ISH protocols presented here offer sensitive methods to detect the expression of two mRNAs of interest, with both colorimetric and fluorescent ISH each having its strengths and limitations. For example, dual colorimetric ISH has proven to be particularly useful to study the distribution of two mRNAs in different brain nuclei, whereas, dual fluorescent ISH has provided better results when studying the co-localization of two different mRNAs in single neurons. The comprehensive step-by-step procedure is presented, together with a troubleshooting section in which the advantages and limitations of these procedures are reviewed in depth. Moreover, alternative protocols for dual ISH were also compared to those presented here.
Spectral analysis methods are now routinely used in electrophysiological studies of human and animal cognition. Although a wide variety of spectral methods has been used, the ways in which these methods differ are not generally understood. Here we use simulation methods to characterize the similarities and differences between three spectral analysis methods: wavelets, multitapers and P(episode). P(episode) is a novel method that quantifies the fraction of time that oscillations exceed amplitude and duration thresholds. We show that wavelets and P(episode) used side-by-side helps to disentangle length and amplitude of a signal. P(episode) is especially sensitive to fluctuations around its thresholds, puts frequencies on a more equal footing, and is sensitive to long but low-amplitude signals. In contrast, multitaper methods are less sensitive to weak signals, but are very frequency-specific. If frequency specificity is not essential, then wavelets and P(episode) are recommended.
The vast majority of studies into visual processing are conducted using computer display technology. The current paper describes a new free suite of software tools designed to make this task easier, using the latest advances in hardware and software. PsychoPy is a platform-independent experimental control system written in the Python interpreted language using entirely free libraries. PsychoPy scripts are designed to be extremely easy to read and write, while retaining complete power for the user to customize the stimuli and environment. Tools are provided within the package to allow everything from stimulus presentation and response collection (from a wide range of devices) to simple data analysis such as psychometric function fitting. Most importantly, PsychoPy is highly extensible and the whole system can evolve via user contributions. If a user wants to add support for a particular stimulus, analysis or hardware device they can look at the code for existing examples, modify them and submit the modifications back into the package so that the whole community benefits.
Swedish double mutation (KM670/671NL) of amyloid precursor protein (Swe-APP), a prevailing cause of familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD), is known to increase in Abeta production both in vitro and in vivo, but its underlying molecular basis leading to Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis remains to be elucidated, especially for the early phase of disease. We have confirmed initially that the expression of Swe-APP mutant transgene reduced cell viability via ROS production but this effect was eliminated by an anti-oxidative agent, vitamin E. We also found that eukaryotic translation initiation factor-2alpha (eIF2alpha), which facilitates binding of initiator tRNA to ribosomes to set on protein synthesis, was phosphorylated in cultured cells expressing Swe-APP. This increase in phosphorylated eIF2alpha was also attenuated significantly by treatment with vitamin E. The finding that eIF2alpha became highly phosphorylated by increased production of Abeta was substantiated in brain tissues of both an AD animal model and AD patients. Although an increase in Abeta production would result in cell death eventually (in late-phase of the disease), the altered phosphorylation state of eIF2alpha evoked by Abeta may account for the decreased efficacy of mRNA translation and de novo protein synthesis required for synaptic plasticity, and may consequently be one of molecular causes for impairment of cognitive functions exhibited in the early phase of AD patients.
A neuroprotective factor is shown to be present in mammalian serum. This factor is identified by Western blotting to be serum albumin. The serum factor and albumin both protected cultured spinal cord neurons against the toxicity of glutamate. The inability of K252a, a blocker of the high affinity tyrosine kinase receptor for members of the nerve growth factor family, to block the neuroprotective effect of the serum factor established that the serum factor is not a member of the nerve growth factor family. Post-injury injection of albumin intravenously or into the site of injury immediately after injury both improved significantly locomotor function according to Basso-Beattie-Bresnahan assessment and spontaneous locomotor activity recorded with a photobeam activity system. Albumin has multiple mechanisms whereby it may be neuroprotective, and it is a potentially useful agent for treating neurotraumas.
One class of goldfish bipolar cells, the mixed-input bipolar cell, contacts both rods and cones. Although the morphology of the different mixed-input bipolar cell subtypes has been described, insight into the interaction between rods and cones at the bipolar cell level is scarce. The aim of this study was to characterize this interaction in the different physiological types of mixed-input bipolar cells. We found mixed-input bipolar cells that depolarized, hyperpolarized, or showed a combination of the two types of response after center stimulation. The relative contributions of rod and cone inputs varied strongly in these cell populations. Depolarizing mixed-input bipolar cells are rod-dominated, having the highest sensitivity and the smallest dynamic range. Hyperpolarizing mixed-input bipolar cells, on the other hand, have a more balanced rod-cone input ratio. This extends their dynamic range and decreases their sensitivity. Finally, opponent mixed-input bipolar cells seem to be mostly cone-dominated, although some rod input is present. The antagonistic photoreceptor inputs form a push-pull system that makes these mixed-input bipolar cells very sensitive to changes in light intensity. Our finding that spectral tuning changes with light intensity conflicts with the idea that the separate non-opponent and opponent channels are related to coding of brightness and color, respectively. The organization of mixed-input bipolar cells into various classes with different dynamic ranges and absolute sensitivities might be a strategy to transmit information about all visual aspects most efficiently, given the sustained nature of bipolar cell responses and their limited voltage range.

Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) was used to investigate corticospinal excitability during the preparation period preceding visually guided self-paced grasping. Previously we have shown that while subjects prepare to grasp a visible object, paired-pulse TMS at a specific interval facilitates motor-evoked potentials (MEPs) in hand muscles in a manner that varies with the role of the muscle in shaping the hand for the upcoming grasp. This anticipatory modulation may reflect transmission of inputs to human primary motor cortex (M1) for visuomotor guidance of hand shape. Conversely, single-pulse TMS is known to suppress MEPs during movement preparation. Here we investigate the time course of single- and paired-pulse MEP modulation. TMS was delivered over M1, at different time intervals after visual presentation of either a handle or a disc to healthy subjects. Participants were instructed to view the object, and later to grasp it when given a cue. During grasp there was a specific pattern of hand muscle activity according to the object grasped. MEPs were evoked in these muscles by TMS delivered prior to grasp. Paired-pulse MEPs were facilitated, whilst single-pulse MEPs were suppressed. The pattern of facilitation matched the object-specific pattern of muscle activity for TMS pulses delivered 150 ms or more after object presentation. However, this effect was not present when TMS was delivered immediately after object presentation, or if the delivery of TMS was given separately from the cue to perform the grasp action. These results suggest that object-related information for preparation of appropriate hand shapes reaches M1 only immediately preceding execution of the grasp.

TRPM8, a member of the melastatin subfamily of transient receptor potential (TRP) cation channels, is activated by voltage, low temperatures and cooling compounds. These properties and its restricted expression to small sensory neurons have made it the ion channel with the most advocated role in cold transduction. Recent work suggests that activation of TRPM8 by cold and menthol takes place through shifts in its voltage-activation curve, which cause the channel to open at physiological membrane potentials. By contrast, little is known about the actions of inhibitors on the function of TRPM8. We investigated the chemical and thermal modulation of TRPM8 in transfected HEK293 cells and in cold-sensitive primary sensory neurons. We show that cold-evoked TRPM8 responses are effectively suppressed by inhibitor compounds SKF96365, 4-(3-chloro-pyridin-2-yl)-piperazine-1-carboxylic acid (4-tert-butyl-phenyl)-amide (BCTC) and 1,10-phenanthroline. These antagonists exert their effect by shifting the voltage dependence of TRPM8 activation towards more positive potentials. An opposite shift towards more negative potentials is achieved by the agonist menthol. Functionally, the bidirectional shift in channel gating translates into a change in the apparent temperature threshold of TRPM8-expressing cells. Accordingly, in the presence of the antagonist compounds, the apparent response-threshold temperature of TRPM8 is displaced towards colder temperatures, whereas menthol sensitizes the response, shifting the threshold in the opposite direction. Co-application of agonists and antagonists produces predictable cancellation of these effects, suggesting the convergence on a common molecular process. The potential for half maximal activation of TRPM8 activation by cold was approximately 140 mV more negative in native channels compared to recombinant channels, with a much higher open probability at negative membrane potentials in the former. In functional terms, this difference translates into a shift in the apparent temperature threshold for activation towards higher temperatures for native currents. This difference in voltage-dependence readily explains the high threshold temperatures characteristic of many cold thermoreceptors. The modulation of TRPM8 activity by different chemical agents unveils an important flexibility in the temperature-response curve of TRPM8 channels and cold thermoreceptors.
Symptomatic hyperekplexia is a relatively rare entity, but has been documented in various, mostly brainstem diseases. We report the clinical and neurophysiologic vignette of a patient with a self-limiting, possibly inflammatory brainstem encephalopathy. Trismus was the presenting feature, but she later developed hyperekplexia. Although most brainstem features resolved spontaneously, the hyperekplexia has persisted.
Few prospective data on the clinical progression of Parkinson's disease (PD) in patient groups outside treatment trials in selected patients are available, and controversy exists on the rate of clinical disease progression with advancing disease. In this study, we investigated the rate of clinical progression of PD in a clinic-based sample of 145 patients over 1 year and in a community-based sample of 124 patients over 4 years. Depending on the sample and clinical scale used, mean deterioration of motor and disability scores ranged from 2.4 to 7.4% of the maximum possible score per year, and standard deviations indicated that there was considerable variability of progression rates between individuals. The progression of motor scores decreased with follow-up over 4 years and significantly decreased in more advanced disease stages. Deterioration of disability scores did not differ between disease stages; this may reflect the increasing rate of disease complications, which contribute to increasing disability in addition to motor impairment alone, in more advanced disease. Thus, motor fluctuations, hallucinations, depression, memory problems, and bladder symptoms were all reported more often at follow-up in the community-based sample (all P &lt; 0.01), and dyskinesias, motor fluctuations, falls, and hallucinations were more common and cognitive and depression scores worse in higher disease stages in the clinic-based sample (all P &lt; 0.001). We conclude that progression of motor scores in PD decreases with advancing disease in PD. However, disability continues to deteriorate with advancing disease and with the development of disease complications that are likely to be related to additional extrastriatal pathology.
In temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE), hippocampal atrophy (HA) is a marker of poor prognosis regarding seizure remission, but predicts success of anterior temporal lobe resection. Manual quantification of HA on MRI is time-consuming and limited by investigator availability. Normal ranges of hippocampal volumes, both in absolute terms and relative to intracranial volume, and of hippocampal asymmetry were defined using an automatic label propagation and decision fusion technique based on thirty manually derived atlases of healthy controls. Manual test-retest reliability and overlaps of automatically and manually determined hippocampal volumes were quantified with similarity indices (SIs). Correct clinical identification of ipsilateral HA, and contralaterally normal hippocampal volumes, was determined in nine patients with histologically confirmed hippocampal sclerosis in terms of volumes and asymmetry indices (AIs) for standard statistical thresholds and with receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis. Manual test-retest reliability was very high, with SIs between 0.87 and 0.90. Manual and automatic hippocampus labels overlapped with a SI of 0.83 on the unaffected but with 0.76 on the atrophic side. Accuracy was higher for less atrophic hippocampi. The automatic method correctly identified 6/9 HAs in terms of absolute volume, 7/9 in terms of relative volume at a standard 2 SD threshold, and 9/9 for AIs. ROC-determined thresholds allowed clinically desirable correct identification of all HAs (100% sensitivity) with 85-100% specificity for volumes, and 100% specificity for AIs. The method has the potential to automatically detect unilateral HA, but further work is needed to determine its performance in detecting clinically important bilateral disease.
In this work, we propose a symmetrical multimodal EEG/fMRI information fusion approach dedicated to the identification of event-related bioelectric and hemodynamic responses. Unlike existing, asymmetrical EEG/fMRI data fusion algorithms, we build a joint EEG/fMRI generative model that explicitly accounts for local coupling/uncoupling of bioelectric and hemodynamic activities, which are supposed to share a common substrate. Under a dedicated assumption of spatio-temporal separability, the spatial profile of the common EEG/fMRI sources is introduced as an unknown hierarchical prior on both markers of cerebral activity. Thereby, a devoted Variational Bayesian (VB) learning scheme is derived to infer common EEG/fMRI sources from a joint EEG/fMRI dataset. This yields an estimate of the common spatial profile, which is built as a trade-off between information extracted from EEG and fMRI datasets. Furthermore, the spatial structure of the EEG/fMRI coupling/uncoupling is learned exclusively from the data. The proposed data generative model and devoted VBEM learning scheme thus provide an un-supervised well-balanced approach for the fusion of EEG/fMRI information. We first demonstrate our approach on synthetic data. Results show that, in contrast to classical EEG/fMRI fusion approach, the method proved efficient and robust regardless of the EEG/fMRI discordance level. We apply the method on EEG/fMRI recordings from a patient with epilepsy, in order to identify brain areas involved during the generation of epileptic spikes. The results are validated using intracranial EEG measurements.
The production of sign language involves two large articulators (the hands) moving through space and contacting the body. In contrast, speech production requires small movements of the tongue and vocal tract with no observable spatial contrasts. Nonetheless, both language types exhibit a sublexical layer of structure with similar properties (e.g., segments, syllables, feature hierarchies). To investigate which neural areas are involved in modality-independent language production and which are tied specifically to the input-output mechanisms of signed and spoken language, we reanalyzed PET data collected from 29 deaf signers and 64 hearing speakers who participated in a series of separate studies. Participants were asked to overtly name concrete objects from distinct semantic categories in either American Sign Language (ASL) or in English. The baseline task required participants to judge the orientation of unknown faces (overtly responding 'yes'/'no' for upright/inverted). A random effects analysis revealed that left mesial temporal cortex and the left inferior frontal gyrus were equally involved in both speech and sign production, suggesting a modality-independent role for these regions in lexical access. Within the left parietal lobe, two regions were more active for sign than for speech: the supramarginal gyrus (peak coordinates: -60, -35, +27) and the superior parietal lobule (peak coordinates: -26, -51, +54). Activation in these regions may be linked to modality-specific output parameters of sign language. Specifically, activation within left SMG may reflect aspects of phonological processing in ASL (e.g., selection of hand configuration and place of articulation features), whereas activation within SPL may reflect proprioceptive monitoring of motoric output.
[(11)C]-(R)-PK11195 is presently the most widely used radiotracer for the monitoring of microglia activity in the central nervous system (CNS). Microglia, the resident immune cells of the brain, play a critical role in acute and chronic diseases of the central nervous system and in host defence against neoplasia. The purpose of this investigation was to evaluate the reliability and sensitivity of five kinetic modelling methods for the formation of parametric maps from dynamic [(11)C]-(R)-PK11195 studies. The methods we tested were the simplified reference tissue model (SRTM), basis pursuit, a simple target-to-reference ratio, the Logan plot and a wavelet based Logan plot. For the reliability assessment, the test-retest data consisted of four Alzheimer's patients that were scanned twice at approximately a six-week interval. For the sensitivity assessment, comparison of [(11)C]-(R)-PK11195 binding in Huntington's disease (HD) patients and normal subjects was performed using a group contrast to localize significant increases in mean pixel volume of distribution (VD) in HD. In all instances, a reference region kinetic extracted by a supervised clustering technique was used as input function. Reliability was assessed by use of the intra-class correlation coefficient (ICC) across a wide set of anatomical regions and it was found that the wavelet-based Logan plot, basis pursuit and SRTM gave the highest ICC values on average. The same methods produced the highest z-scores resulting from increases in mean striatal VD in HD patients compared with controls. The reference-to-target ratio and the Logan graphical approach were significantly less reliable and less sensitive.
Posterior parietal cortex in primates contains several functional areas associated with visual control of body effectors (e.g., arm, hand and head) which contain neurons tuned to specific depth ranges appropriate for the effector. For example, the macaque ventral intraparietal area (VIP) is involved in head movements and is selective for motion in near-space around the head. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to examine activation in the putative human VIP homologue (pVIP), as well as parietal and occipital cortex, as a function of viewing distance when multiple cues to target depth were available (Expt 1) and when only oculomotor cues were available (Expt 2). In Experiment 1, subjects viewed stationary or moving disks presented at three distances (with equal retinal sizes). Although activation in pVIP showed no preference for any particular spatial range, the dorsal parieto-occipital sulcus (dPOS) demonstrated a near-space preference, with activation highest for near viewing, moderate for arm's length viewing, and lowest for far viewing. In Experiment 2, we investigated whether the near response alone (convergence of the eyes, accommodation of the lens and pupillary constriction) was sufficient to elicit this same activation pattern. Subjects fixated lights presented at three distances which were illuminated singly (with luminance and visual angle equated across distances). dPOS displayed the same gradient of activation (Near&gt;Medium&gt;Far) as that seen in Experiment 1, even with reduced cues to depth. dPOS seems to reflect the status of the near response (perhaps driven largely by vergence angle) and may provide areas in the dorsal visual stream with spatial information useful for guiding actions toward targets in depth.
Early disruption of steroids affects the development of mammalian neural circuits underlying affective processes. In humans, patients with classic congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH) can serve as a natural model to study early hormonal alterations on functional brain development. CAH is characterized by congenital glucocorticoid insufficiency, leading to altered hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) function, and hyperandrogenism. Using fMRI, we compared fourteen adolescents with CAH to 14 healthy controls on amygdala response to a face viewing task. In response to negative facial emotions, CAH females activated the amygdala significantly more than healthy females, whereas CAH males did not differ from control males. Furthermore, females with CAH showed a similar pattern of amygdala activation to control males, suggesting virilized amygdala function in females with CAH. These findings suggest a prominent effect of early hyperandrogenism on the development and function of the amygdala in females with CAH, whereas no effects were detected in males with CAH. This study provides data that can be further tested in a model of the neurobiological mechanisms underlying early androgen organizational effects on amygdala function.
Is the basis of criminality an act that causes harm, or an act undertaken with the belief that one will cause harm? The present study takes a cognitive neuroscience approach to investigating how information about an agent's beliefs and an action's consequences contribute to moral judgment. We build on prior developmental evidence showing that these factors contribute differentially to the young child's moral judgments coupled with neurobiological evidence suggesting a role for the right temporoparietal junction (RTPJ) in belief attribution. Participants read vignettes in a 2 x 2 design: protagonists produced either a negative or neutral outcome based on the belief that they were causing the negative outcome (&quot;negative&quot; belief) or the neutral outcome (&quot;neutral&quot; belief). The RTPJ showed significant activation above baseline for all four conditions but was modulated by an interaction between belief and outcome. Specifically, the RTPJ response was highest for cases of attempted harm, where protagonists were condemned for actions that they believed would cause harm to others, even though the harm did not occur. The results not only suggest a general role for belief attribution during moral judgment, but also add detail to our understanding of the interaction between these processes at both the neural and behavioral levels.
Activation of tetrodotoxin-resistant sodium channels contributes to action potential electrogenesis in neurons. Antisense oligonucleotide studies directed against Na(v)1.8 have shown that this channel contributes to experimental inflammatory and neuropathic pain. We report here the discovery of A-803467, a sodium channel blocker that potently blocks tetrodotoxin-resistant currents (IC(50) = 140 nM) and the generation of spontaneous and electrically evoked action potentials in vitro in rat dorsal root ganglion neurons. In recombinant cell lines, A-803467 potently blocked human Na(v)1.8 (IC(50) = 8 nM) and was &gt;100-fold selective vs. human Na(v)1.2, Na(v)1.3, Na(v)1.5, and Na(v)1.7 (IC(50) values &gt;or=1 microM). A-803467 (20 mg/kg, i.v.) blocked mechanically evoked firing of wide dynamic range neurons in the rat spinal dorsal horn. A-803467 also dose-dependently reduced mechanical allodynia in a variety of rat pain models including: spinal nerve ligation (ED(50) = 47 mg/kg, i.p.), sciatic nerve injury (ED(50) = 85 mg/kg, i.p.), capsaicin-induced secondary mechanical allodynia (ED(50) approximately 100 mg/kg, i.p.), and thermal hyperalgesia after intraplantar complete Freund's adjuvant injection (ED(50) = 41 mg/kg, i.p.). A-803467 was inactive against formalin-induced nociception and acute thermal and postoperative pain. These data demonstrate that acute and selective pharmacological blockade of Na(v)1.8 sodium channels in vivo produces significant antinociception in animal models of neuropathic and inflammatory pain.
Given the tremendous importance of mitochondria to basic cellular functions as well as the critical role of mitochondrial impairment in a vast number of disorders, a compelling question is whether 17beta-estradiol (E2) modulates mitochondrial function. To answer this question we exposed isolated liver mitochondria to E2. Three groups of rat females were used: control, ovariectomized and ovariectomized treated with tamoxifen. Tamoxifen has antiestrogenic effects in the breast tissue and is the standard endocrine treatment for women with breast cancer. However, under certain circumstances and in certain tissues, tamoxifen can also exert estrogenic agonist properties. We observed that at basal conditions, ovariectomy and tamoxifen treatment do not induce any statistical alteration in oxidative phosphorylation system and respiratory chain parameters. Furthermore, tamoxifen treatment increases the capacity of mitochondria to accumulate Ca(2+) delaying the opening of the permeability transition pore. The presence of 25 microM E2 impairs respiration and oxidative phosphorylation system these effects being similar in all groups of animals studied. Curiously, E2 protects against lipid peroxidation and increases the production of H(2)O(2) in energized mitochondria of control females. Our results indicate that E2 has in general deleterious effects that lead to mitochondrial impairment. Since mitochondrial dysfunction is a triggering event of cell degeneration and death, the use of exogenous E2 must be carefully considered.

Marrow stromal cells (MSCs) have the ability to provide growth factors and differentiate into neural-like cells on treating with EGF, bFGF and other factors. We wanted to explore whether growth factors secreted by MSCs itself could induce self-differentiation into neural-like cells. Here, we show that even in the absence of inducing factors, rMSCs spontaneously differentiate into neural-like cells expressing neural markers, such as nestin, beta-tubulin III, Doublecortin (DCX), microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2) and neuron-specific enolase (NSE). Furthermore, some cells become neurosphere-like growing in suspension. Compared with control and neural-like rMSCs induced by epidermal growth factor (EGF) and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), we found using real-time PCR that self-differentiating rMSCs (SDrMSCs) expressed significantly higher levels of neurotrophic high-affinity receptors (TrkA and TrkB). Coincident with neural marker expression, nerve growth factor (NGF) mRNA was significantly higher than controls despite lower protein levels in the supernatant. Our study suggests that rMSCs have the potential to differentiate into neural cells spontaneously in culture and may contribute towards the natural function of MSCs for neural system in vivo.

The electrophysiological properties of acute and chronic methylphenidate (MPD) on neurons of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and caudate nucleus (CN) have not been studied in awake, freely behaving animals. The present study was designed to investigate the dose-response effects of MPD on sensory evoked potentials recorded from the PFC and CN in freely behaving rats previously implanted with permanent electrodes, as well as their behavioral (locomotor) activities. On experimental day 1, locomotor behavior of rats was recorded for 2 h post-saline injection, and sensory evoked field potentials were recorded before and after saline and 0.6, 2.5, and 10 mg/kg, i.p., MPD administration. Animals were injected for the next five days with daily 2.5 mg/kg MPD to elicit behavioral sensitization. Locomotor recording was resumed on experimental days 2 and 6 after the MPD maintenance dose followed by 3 days of washout. On experimental day 10, rats were connected again to the electrophysiological recording system and rechallenged with saline and the identical MPD doses as on experimental day 1. On experimental day 11, rat's locomotor recording was resumed before and after 2.5 mg/kg MPD administration. Behavioral results showed that repeated administration of MPD induced behavioral sensitization. Challenge doses (0.6, 2.5, and 10.0 mg/kg) of MPD on experimental day 1 elicited dose-response attenuation in the response amplitude of the average sensory evoked field potential components recorded from the PFC and CN. Chronic MPD administration resulted in attenuation of the PFC's baseline recorded on experimental day 10, while the same treatment did not modulate the baseline recorded from the CN. Treatment of MPD on experimental day 10 resulted in further decrease of the average sensory evoked response compared to that obtained on experimental day 1. This observation of further decrease in the electrophysiological responses after chronic administration of MPD suggests that the sensory evoked responses on experimental day 10 represent neurophysiological sensitization. Moreover, two different response patterns were obtained from PFC and CN following chronic methylphenidate administration. In PFC, the baseline and effect of methylphenidate expressed electrophysiological sensitization on experimental day 10, while recording from CN did not exhibit any electrophysiological sensitization.
Acidification, which occurs in some pathological conditions, such as ischemia and hypoxia often induces neurotoxicity. The activation of acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs), which are highly permeable to calcium, has been considered the main target responsible for calcium overload in ischemic/hypoxic brain. However, the influence of extracellular proton on GABAergic synaptic transmission is not well understood. In the rat (aged 6-12 postnatal days) hippocampal CA3 neurons dissociated with an enzyme-free, mechanical method, we show that raising the extracellular pH (to 8.5) or lowering it (to 6.0) significantly increased or decreased, respectively, the frequency and the amplitude of spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents mediated by gamma-aminobutyric acid A (GABA(A)) receptors. Interestingly, these modifications were not altered by amiloride (100 microM, an antagonist for ASICs), tetrodotoxin (0.5 microM, a sodium channel blocker), cadmium (100 microM, a nonselective blocker for voltage-gated calcium channels), or a medium containing low calcium (0.5 mM). Significantly, changes in extracellular pH biphasically altered the peak amplitude of the currents elicited by exogenous GABA in CA3 neurons dissociated with enzyme. Raising the extracellular pH (to 8.5) or lowering (to 6.5) shifted the concentration-response curves of GABA to the left or right, respectively, without altering the maximal responses. These data suggest that proton alters the apparent affinity of GABA receptors for agonist. Thus, extracellular proton modifies GABAergic synaptic transmission both presynaptically and postsynaptically, and this could be independent of ASICs and voltage-gated calcium channels. Our finding may constitute a new mechanism underlying acidification-induced neurotoxicity.
A-kinase anchoring proteins (AKAPs) form large macromolecular signaling complexes that specifically target cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) to unique subcellular compartments and thus, provide high specificity to PKA signaling. For example, the AKAP79/150 family tethers PKA, PKC and PP2B to neuronal membranes and postsynaptic densities and plays an important role in synaptic function. Several studies suggested that AKAP79/150 anchored PKA contributes to mechanisms associated with synaptic plasticity and memory processes, but the precise role of AKAPs in these processes is still unknown. In this study we established the mouse brain distribution of AKAP150 using two well-characterized AKAP150 antibodies. Using Western blotting and immunohistochemistry we showed that AKAP150 is widely distributed throughout the mouse brain. The highest AKAP150 expression levels were observed in striatum, cerebral cortex and several other forebrain regions (e.g. olfactory tubercle), relatively high expression was found in hippocampus and olfactory bulb and low/no expression in cerebellum, hypothalamus, thalamus and brain stem. Although there were some minor differences in mouse AKAP150 brain distribution compared to the distribution in rat brain, our data suggested that rodents have a characteristic AKAP150 brain distribution pattern. In general we observed that AKAP150 is strongly expressed in mouse brain regions involved in learning and memory. These data support its suggested role in synaptic plasticity and memory processes.
During a critical period of postnatal development the epileptogenic focus is thought to be of cortical origin. We used immunohistochemistry and Western blotting to elucidate potential mechanisms underlying an increased state of susceptibility to seizures in immature animals. Distribution patterns of N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) (NR1 and NR2A/B) and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionic acid (AMPA) (GluR1 and GluR2) subunits were analyzed in retrosplenial, parietal and temporal cortices during the first two postnatal weeks following three episodes of status-epilepticus. Rat pups were injected three times with kainic acid (3x KA) on P6, P9, and P13 and subsequently sacrificed 48 h after the third seizure. Cortical electroencephalography (EEG) showed increased number of spikes and bursts of longer duration after 3x KA. Immunodensity measurements after 3x KA revealed a robust increase in NR2A/B labeling specific to cortical layer V throughout the retrosplenial, parietal, and temporal cortices, with no changes noted in piriform cortex. NR1 layer V immunoreactivity was also simultaneously increased in serial sections but to a lesser degree; heightened immunodensities were specific to retrosplenial and temporal cortices. The NR1:NR2 ratio was decreased in cortical layer V of the temporal and retrosplenial cortices but not in parietal cortex despite elevated immunoreactivity. Steady levels of GluR1 and GluR2 subunits were noted in all cortical areas studied in the same animals. Thus, recurrent perinatal seizures led to selective and layer-specific increases in NMDA receptor proteins. These changes may be responsible for lowering the seizure threshold in deeper cortical areas and eventually contribute to the cortical epileptogenic focus.
Thrombospondin-1 is a multifunctional protein interacting with several cell surface receptors including integrins. We found that it is a ligand for alpha9beta1 integrin, and has an integrin binding site within its N-terminal domain (NoC1). Interaction of thrombospondin-1 and its recombinant NoC1 domain with alpha9beta1 integrin was confirmed in ELISA and cell adhesion assays. Binding of NoC1 to cells expressing alpha9beta1 integrin activated signaling proteins such as Erk1/2 and paxillin. Blocking of this integrin by monoclonal antibody and the met-leu-asp-disintegrin inhibited dermal human microvascular endothelial cell proliferation and NoC1-induced migration of these cells. Immunohistochemical studies revealed that alpha9beta1 is expressed on microvascular endothelium in several organs including skin, lung, heart and brain. NoC1 induced neovascularization in an experimental quail chorioallantoic membrane system and Matrigel plug formation assay in mice. This proangiogenic activity of NoC1 in vivo was inhibited by alpha9beta1 inhibitors. In summary, our results revealed that alpha9beta1 integrin expressed on microvascular endothelial cells interacts with thrombospondin-1, and this interaction is involved in modulation of angiogenesis.
1,3-Bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU) kills tumor cells via multiple actions including alkylation and carbamoylation. Previously, we have reported that formation of S-nitrosoglutathione (GSNO) in glioma cells overexpressing inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) contributed to nitric oxide (NO)-dependent carbamoylating chemoresistance against BCNU. To further characterize the effects of NO on alkylating cytotoxicity, colony formation assay was applied to evaluate the effects of various NO donors on rat C6 glioma cells challenged with alkylating agents. We demonstrate that NO donors including GSNO, diethylamine NONOate (DEA/NO), and sodium nitroprusside (SNP) substantially reduced the extent of colony formation in glioma cells treated with alkylating agents, namely methyl methanesulfonate (MMS), N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (MNU), and N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea (ENU). Without alkylating agents these NO-releasing agents alone had no effects on clongenic potential of rat C6 glioma cells. Among these three NO donors used, the effectiveness in potentiating alkylating cytotoxicity is in the order of &quot;GSNO&gt;DEA/NO&gt;SNP&quot; when applied at the same dosages. GSNO also exerted similar synergistic actions reducing the extents of colony formation when co-administrated with 1,2-bis(methylsulfonyl)-1-(2-chloroethyl)-hydrazine (compound #1), another alkylating agent that mimics the chloroethylating action of BCNU. Together with our previous findings, we propose that NO donors may be used as adjunct chemotherapy with alkylating agents for such malignant brain tumors as glioblastoma multiforme (GBM). In contrast, production of NO as a result of iNOS induction, such as that occurring after surgical resection of brain tumors, may compromise the efficacy of carbamoylating chemotherapy.
Aging is associated with a decline in cognitive function which could be due to reduced synaptic plasticity. Hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP) is an activity-dependent form of increased transmission efficacy at synapses that is considered the basis for some forms of learning and memory. We studied the N-methyl-d-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptor-dependent LTP in the CA1 region of hippocampus in young (2 months) and mature (8 months) male and female rats. We have found that in young male rats the tetanus increased the magnitude of excitatory post-synaptic potentials to 204+/-10% of basal while in mature male rats the magnitude of the LTP was significantly lower reaching only 153+/-11% of basal. This decrease did not occur in female rats. Similar changes occurred in the content of the NMDA receptor subunits NR1 and NR2A in hippocampus. The amount of both subunits was reduced significantly (15-16%) in hippocampus of 8-month-old compared with 2-month-old male rats. This decrease was not observed in female rats. Moreover, there is a significant correlation between the content of NR1 subunit and the magnitude of the potentiation. These data suggest that some of the neurobiological changes induced in hippocampus by aging are different in males and females.
The subventricular zone (SVZ) is a neurogenic region that continually gives rise to olfactory bulb (OB) GABAergic interneurons in mammals. The newly generated neuroblasts already express GABA while migrating to this structure along the rostral migratory stream (RMS). Here, we investigate in early postnatal rat if SVZ/RMS cells undertake the same synthetic pathway by which GABA is produced in differentiated neurons, i.e. the decarboxylation of glutamate by the glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), or, if an alternative pathway, the conversion of putrescine into GABA, also contributes to GABA synthesis. We show here that GAD immunoreactivity is not significantly detectable within the SVZ/RMS. However, strong immunolabeling is found within the OB. Nevertheless, low GAD enzymatic activity (as compared with OB) is detected in the SVZ/RMS. SVZ/RMS explants convert approximately 30% of all captured radiolabeled putrescine into GABA in vitro, showing that this pathway is important for GABA synthesis in the SVZ. We also show that SVZ/RMS, OB and choroid plexus explants are able to synthesize putrescine, as analyzed by ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) activity, providing neuroblasts with different sources of putrescine for GABA production. During early stages of neuroblast differentiation, in which neurotransmitter choice may still be undefined, an alternative pathway for GABA synthesis guarantees the production of GABA, necessary for neuroblast proliferation and migration in the SVZ/RMS.
Dense vesicles can be observed in live bovine chromaffin cells using fluorescent reflection confocal microscopy. These vesicles display a similar distribution, cytoplasmic density and average size as the chromaffin granules visualized by electron microscopy. In addition, the acidic vesicles labeled with Lysotracker Red comprised a subpopulation of the vesicles that are visualized by reflection fluorescence. A combination of fluorescence reflection and transmitted light images permitted the movements of vesicles in relation to the cortical cytoskeleton to be studied. The movement of vesicles located on the outside of this structure was restricted, with an apparent diffusion coefficient of 1.0+/-0.4 x 10(-4) microm(2)/s. In contrast, vesicles located in the interior moved much more freely and escaped from the visual confocal plane. Lysotracker labeling was more appropriate to study the movement of the faster moving vesicles, whose diffusion coefficient was five times higher. Using this type of labeling we confirmed the restriction on cortical movement and showed a clear relationship between vesicle mobility and the kinetics of cytoskeletal movement on both sides of the cortical cytoskeleton. This relationship was further emphasized by studying cytoskeletal organization and kinetics. Indeed, an estimate of the size of the cytoskeletal polygonal cages present in the cortical region and in the cell interior agreed well with the calculation of the theoretical radius of the cages imprisoning vesicle movement. Therefore, these data suggest that the structure and kinetics of the cytoskeleton governs vesicle movements in different regions of chromaffin cells.
Morphological studies in rodents have well documented the masculinization of the perinatal brain by estradiol derived from aromatized testosterone, and the resulting irreversible quantitative sex-differences generated in cell numbers or expression of chemical phenotypes. Here, using immunohistochemistry, we explored how this applies to the postnatal development and masculinization of the neurokinin B (NKB)-containing system of the arcuate nucleus/median eminence complex (ARC/ME). In adult rats, NKB-immunoreactive neurons exhibit an unusual, qualitative sexual dimorphism of their ventral axonal projections: to the neuropil in females, to capillary vessels in males. In adults, there was no sex-difference in the numbers of NKB-immunoreactive perikarya or capillary vessels in the ARC/ME, suggesting that this sexual dimorphism cannot be explained by the existence of supernumerary structures. At birth (day 0) the NKB system was immature in both sexes, and while its adult features emerged progressively until puberty in females, they did not develop before puberty (day 40) in males, revealing a sexual dimorphism only late postnatally. When males were orchidectomized at day 30, the masculine distribution of NKB-immunoreactive axons expected at day 40 was not seen, while it was apparent after chronic treatment with testosterone or dihydrotestosterone, suggesting a testicular masculinizing action via androgen receptors at puberty. Moreover in these prepubertal-orchidectomized males, the distribution of NKB-immunoreactive axons was surprisingly feminized by chronic estradiol alone, suggesting that NKB neurons are not irreversibly programmed before puberty. Last, in adult females, the distribution of NKB-immunoreactive axons was feminine 30 days after ovariectomy, and it was masculinized after concurrent chronic dihydrotestosterone, suggesting that NKB neurons remain responsive to androgens late in reproductive life. Thus, the sexual differentiation of the hypothalamus proceeds well beyond the perinatal period and includes the epigenetic action of non-aromatizable androgens upon subsets of neurons that have retained bipotent features.
Zebrafish, like other teleosts, are distinguished by their enormous potential to produce new neurons in many parts of the adult brain. By labeling S-phase cells with the thymidine analog 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU), quantitative analysis demonstrated that, on average, 6000 new cells were generated in the entire adult brain within any 30 min period. This corresponds to roughly 0.06% of the total number of brain cells. Part of these cells underwent a second round of cell division a few days after their generation so that 10 days post-BrdU administration, when the cells have exited the mitotic cycle, approximately 10,000 BrdU-labeled cells were present in the entire brain. At post-BrdU survival times of 446-656 days, on average 4600 BrdU-labeled cells were found, suggesting that approximately 46% of the cells present at 10 days persisted in the adult zebrafish brain. Combination of BrdU-labeling of mitotic cells with immunostaining against Hu showed that roughly 47% of the BrdU-labeled cells that persisted in the brain expressed this neuronal marker protein. Taken together, the results of this investigation demonstrate that at least half of the cells generated in the adult zebrafish brain develop into neurons and are likely to persist for the rest of the fish's life.
Auditory feedback plays an important role in natural speech production. We conducted a functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) experiment using a transformed auditory feedback (TAF) method to delineate the neural mechanism for auditory feedback control of pitch. Twelve right-handed subjects were required to vocalize /a/ for 5 s, while hearing their own voice through headphones. In the TAF condition, the pitch of the feedback voice was randomly shifted either up or down from the original pitch two or three times in each trial. The subjects were required to hold the pitch of the feedback voice constant by changing the pitch of original voice. In non-TAF condition, the pitch of the feedback voice was not modulated and the subjects just vocalized /a/ continuously. The contrast between TAF and non-TAF conditions revealed significant activations; the supramarginal gyrus, the prefrontal area, the anterior insula, the superior temporal area and the intraparietal sulcus in the right hemisphere, but only the premotor area in the left hemisphere. This result suggests that auditory feedback control of pitch is mainly supported by the right hemispheric network.
The drug 3,4 methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA; ecstasy) has a widely documented ability to increase feelings of love and closeness toward others. The present study investigated whether oxytocin, a neuropeptide involved in affiliative behavior, may play a role in this effect. A moderate (5 mg/kg, i.p.) dose of MDMA increased social interaction in male Wistar rats, primarily by increasing the amount of time rats spent lying adjacent to each other. MDMA (5 mg/kg) activated oxytocin-containing neurons in the supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei of the hypothalamus, as shown by Fos immunohistochemistry. MDMA (5 mg/kg i.p.) also increased plasma oxytocin levels and this effect was prevented by pre-treatment with the 5-HT(1A) antagonist N-[2-[4-(2-methyoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl]-N-2-pyridinylcyclohexanecarboxamide maleate salt (WAY 100,635; 1 mg/kg i.p.). The oxytocin receptor antagonist tocinoic acid (20 microg, i.c.v.) had no effect on social behavior when given alone but significantly attenuated the facilitation of social interaction produced by MDMA (5 mg/kg). The 5-HT(1A) agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)-tetraline) (8-OH-DPAT, 0.25 mg/kg, i.p.) increased social behavior in a similar way to MDMA and this effect was also significantly attenuated by tocinoic acid. Taken together, these results suggest that oxytocin release, stimulated by MDMA through 5-HT(1A) receptors, may play a key role in the prosocial effects of MDMA and underlie some of the reinforcing effects of the drug.
5-HT released from serotonergic axon terminals in the septal nuclei modulates the activity of septal output neurons (e.g. septohippocampal cholinergic neurons) bearing somatodendritic 5-HT receptors. Therefore, we studied the mechanisms involved in the presynaptic modulation of 5-HT release in the lateral (LS) and medial septum (MS), and the diagonal band of Broca (DB). HPLC analysis showed that tissue concentrations of noradrenaline, dopamine and 5-HT were highest in DB (DB&gt;MS&gt;LS). Slices prepared from LS, MS and DB regions were preincubated with [(3)H]5-HT, superfused in the presence of 6-nitro-2-(1-piperazinyl)-quinoline (6-nitroquipazine) and electrically stimulated up to three times (first electrical stimulation period (S(1)), S(2), S(3); 360 pulses, 3 Hz, 2 ms, 26-28 mA). In all septal regions the Ca(2+)-dependent and tetrodotoxin-sensitive electrically-evoked overflow of [(3)H] was inhibited by the 5-HT(1B) agonist CP-93,129 and the alpha(2)-adrenoceptor agonist 5-bromo-6-(2-imidazolin-2-ylamino)-quinoxaline tartrate (UK-14,304). Also the mu- and kappa-opioid receptor agonists (d-Ala(2), N-Me-Phe(4), glycinol(5))-enkephalin (DAMGO) and [trans-(1S,2S(-3,4-dichloro-N-methyl-N-[2-(1-pyrrolidinyl) cyclohexyl]-benzenacetamide hydro-chloride] (U-50,488H), respectively, acted inhibitory (although less potently), whereas the delta-opioid receptor agonist (d-Pen(2), d-Pen(5))-enkephalin (DPDPE), the dopamine D(2) receptor agonist quinpirole and the adenosine A(1) receptor agonist N(6)-cyclopentyladenosine were all ineffective; the GABA(B) receptor agonist baclofen had weak effects. All inhibitory effects of the agonists were antagonized by the corresponding antagonists (3-[3-(dimethylamino)propyl]-4-hydroxy-N-[4-(4-pyridinyl)phenyl]benzamide dihydrochloride (GR-55,562), idazoxan, naloxone, nor-binaltorphimine), which also significantly enhanced the evoked release of 5-HT at S(1). It is concluded that 5-HT release in septal nuclei of the rat is modulated by presynaptic 5-HT(1B) autoreceptors, as well as by alpha(2)-, mu- and kappa-opioid heteroreceptors. All of these receptors seem to be under a tonic inhibitory influence of the corresponding endogenous agonists and show qualitatively comparable modulatory properties along the dorso-ventral distribution of the 5-HT terminals.
This paper describes a significant biotechnological advancement by creating a minimalist serum-free defined system to co-culture rat mammalian nerve and muscle cells in order to form functional neuromuscular junctions. To date, all the known in vitro nerve and muscle co-culture models use serum containing media; and while functional neuromuscular junctions (NMJ) are described, they failed to detail or quantify the minimum factors needed to recreate the NMJ in vitro. In this work, we demonstrate the development of a defined motoneuron and muscle co-culture system resulting in the formation of NMJs including: 1) a new culture technique, 2) a novel serum-free medium formulation and 3) a synthetic self-assembled monolayer (SAM) substrate N-1 [3-(trimethoxysilyl) propyl] diethylenetriamine (DETA). We characterized the culture by morphology, immunocytochemistry, electrophysiology and videography. This model system provides a better understanding of the minimal growth factor and substrate interactions necessary for NMJ formation and provides a basic system that can be utilized for nerve-muscle tissue engineering, regenerative medicine and development of limb prosthetics.
Migration of immature neurons is essential for forming the cortical layers and nuclei. Impairment of migration results in aberrant neuronal cytoarchitecture, which leads to various neurological disorders. Neurons alter the mode, tempo and rate of migration when they translocate through different cortical layers, but little is known about the mechanisms underlying this process. Here we show that endogenous pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) has short-term and cortical-layer-specific effects on granule cell migration in the early postnatal mouse cerebellum. Application of exogenous PACAP significantly slowed the migration of isolated granule cells and shortened the leading process in the microexplant cultures of the postnatal day (P)0-3 cerebella. Interestingly, in the cerebellar slices of P10 mice, application of exogenous PACAP significantly inhibited granule cell migration in the external granular layer (EGL) and molecular layer (ML), but failed to alter the movement in the Purkinje cell layer (PCL) and internal granular layer (IGL). In contrast, application of PACAP antagonist accelerated granule cell migration in the PCL, but did not change the movement in the EGL, ML and IGL. Inhibition of the cAMP signaling and the activity of phospholipase C significantly reduced the effects of exogenous PACAP on granule cell migration. The PACAP action on granule cell migration was transient, and lasted for approximately 2 h. The duration of PACAP action on granule cell migration was determined by the desensitization of its receptors and prolonged by inhibiting the protein kinase C. Endogenous PACAP was present sporadically in the bottom of the ML, intensively in the PCL, and throughout the IGL. Collectively, these results indicated that PACAP acts on granule cell migration as &quot;a brake (stop signal) for cell movement.&quot; Furthermore, these results suggest that endogenous PACAP slows granule cell migration when the cells enter the PACAP-rich PCL, and 2 h later the desensitization of PACAP receptors allows the cells to accelerate the rate of migration and to actively move within the PACAP-rich IGL. Therefore, endogenous PACAP may provide a cue that regulates granule cell migration in a cerebellar cortical-layer-specific manner.
In the present study, the hypothesis that sex-related differences in glutamate-evoked rat masseter muscle afferent discharge may result from estrogen-related modulation of peripheral N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor activity and/or expression was tested by examining afferent fiber discharge in response to masseter injection of NMDA and the expression of NR2A/B subunits by masseter ganglion neurons in male and female rats. The results showed that injection of NMDA into the masseter muscle evoked discharges in putative mechanonociceptive afferent fibers and increased blood pressure that was concentration-dependent, however, a systemic action of NMDA appeared responsible for increased blood pressure. NMDA-evoked afferent discharge was significantly greater in female than in male rats, was positively correlated with plasma estrogen levels in females and was significantly greater in ovariectomized female rats treated with a high dose (5 mug/day) compared with a low dose (0.5 mug/day) of estrogen. Pre-treatment of high dose estrogen-treated-ovariectomized female rats with the Src tyrosine kinase inhibitor PP2 did not affect NMDA-evoked afferent discharge. NMDA-evoked afferent discharge was attenuated by the antagonists ketamine and ifenprodil, which is selective for NR2B containing NMDA receptors. Fewer masseter ganglion neurons expressed the NR2A (16%) subunit as compared with the NR2B subunit (38%), which was expressed at higher frequencies in intact female (46%) and high dose estrogen-treated ovariectomized female (60%) rats than in male (31%) rats. Taken together, these results suggest that sex-related differences in NMDA-evoked masseter afferent discharge are due, at least in part, to an estrogen-mediated increase in expression of peripheral NMDA receptors by masseter ganglion neurons in female rats.
A common method for identifying collateral projections is to inject different retrograde tracers into two targets and examine labeled cells for the presence of both tracers. Double-labeled cells are considered to have collateral projections to the two injection sites. This method is widely considered to underestimate the extent of collaterals. To test the efficiency of double-labeling, we mixed equal volumes of two tracers, injected them into one site in a guinea-pig brain, and counted the resulting labeled cells. Ideally, the tracers would have precisely overlapping injection sites and all labeled cells would contain both tracers. We tested several combinations of tracers: 1) Fast Blue and fluorescein dextran; 2) fluorescein dextran and FluoroGold; 3) fluorescein dextran and FluoroRuby; 4) FluoroGold and green beads; 5) FluoroGold and red beads; 6) FluoroRuby and green beads; and, 7) green beads and red beads. For each combination, a mixture was injected into the left inferior colliculus. After 1 week to allow for transport, labeled cells were counted in the right inferior colliculus and the left temporal cortex. For each mixture, the results were similar for the two areas. The percentage of cells that were double-labeled varied from 0% to 100%, depending on tracer combination. The highest efficiencies (&gt;96%) were observed with red beads and green beads or with FluoroRuby and fluorescein dextran. The limited efficiency of other mixtures could be accounted for only in part by incomplete overlap of the two tracers at the injection site. The results indicate that the specific combination of tracers used to search for collateral projections can greatly affect the findings.
Tight regulation of gene transcription is critical in muscle development as well as during the formation and maintenance of the neuromuscular junction (NMJ). We previously demonstrated that the transcription of G protein beta1 (Gbeta1) is enhanced by treatment of cultured myotubes with neuregulin (NRG), a trophic factor that plays an important role in neural development. In the current study, we report that the transcript levels of Gbeta1 and Gbeta2 subunits in skeletal muscle are up-regulated following sciatic nerve injury or blockade of nerve activity. These observations prompted us to explore the possibility that G protein subunits regulate NRG-mediated signaling and gene transcription. We showed that overexpression of Gbeta1 or Gbeta2 in COS7 cells attenuates NRG-induced extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) 1/2 activation, whereas suppression of Gbeta2 expression in C2C12 myotubes enhances NRG-mediated ERK1/2 activation and c-fos transcription. These results suggest that expression of Gbeta protein negatively regulates NRG-stimulated gene transcription in cultured myotubes. Taken together, our observations provide evidence that specific heterotrimeric G proteins regulate NRG-mediated signaling and gene transcription during rat muscle development.
Prox-1, a prospero-related homeobox gene, is known to be an important transcription factor during embryogenesis. However, very little is known about Prox-1 expression and functions in the adult nervous system. Here we have investigated the expression pattern of Prox-1 mRNA and protein during postnatal brain development and in adult rat and mouse brains using in situ hybridization (ISH), immunohistochemistry (IHC) and Western blotting. In the developing and adult brain, we found prominent, but restricted Prox-1 mRNA expression in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus, in some thalamic nuclei, notably in the anterior thalamus, and in the cerebellar cortex. Other brain regions, such as the hypothalamus and nuclei belonging to the midbrain, revealed a moderate level of Prox-1 mRNA expression. In developing cerebral cortex, Prox-1 mRNA was seen only in the thin layer under the pial surface postnatally, and the signal almost disappeared by the 28th postnatal day (PD). Using IHC and ISH approaches, we demonstrated rather restricted, but intense Prox-1 labeling in adult brain of both rat and mouse species. During postnatal brain development Prox-1 proteins by IHC, were below the detection limit at PD 14, while Prox-1 mRNA remained at a high level. Western blotting demonstrated the existence of two different variants of Prox-1 protein, one of which was about 20 kDa larger than ordinary size. During the first PDs, the larger variant predominated. At PD 14, neither protein variant could be detected. From PD 16 onwards the smaller variant started to predominate and by PD 30 the larger size protein had almost disappeared. The prominent but limited distribution of Prox-1 in the brain suggests its potentially important role during postnatal brain development and in adult CNS, which remains to be ascertained in future studies.
We examined the circadian expression of mousePeriod (mPer) genes (mPer1 and mPer2) and the proliferation of the neural stem cells in vitro. The neural stem cells from the ganglionic eminence of embryonic mice were expanded by the neurosphere method and then treated with epidermal growth factor (EGF) to stimulate their mitotic activity. The time courses of the proliferation were examined by WST-8 assay and bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) incorporation assay and the expression of mPer1 and mPer2 genes was examined by RT-PCR and immunocytochemistry. We have found that EGF treatment elicited the circadian change in both the increase in viable cell number and DNA synthesis activity of the neural stem cells. Also, the gene expression of mPer2, but not mPer1, changed rhythmically with a period of 24 h and correlated negatively with the DNA synthesis activity rhythm. Furthermore, the treatment with an antisense oligonucleotide against mPer2 increased the DNA synthesis activity of the neural stem cells. These results suggest that mPer2 might periodically suppress the proliferation of neural stem cells.
Exposure to environmental toxins increases the risk of neurodegenerative diseases including Parkinson's disease (PD). Rotenone is a neurotoxin that has been used to induce experimental Parkinsonism in rats. We used the rotenone model of experimental Parkinsonism to explore a novel aspect of extra-nigral degeneration, the neurodegeneration of spinal cord (SC), in PD. Rotenone administration to male Lewis rats caused significant neuronal cell death in cervical and lumbar SC as compared with control animals. Dying neurons were motoneurons as identified by double immunofluorescent labeling for terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase, recombinant-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling-positive (TUNEL(+)) cells and choline acetyltransferase (ChAT)-immunoreactivity. Neuronal death was accompanied by abundant astrogliosis and microgliosis as evidenced from glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-immunoreactivity and OX-42-immunoreactivity, respectively, implicating an inflammatory component during neurodegeneration in SC. However, the integrity of the white matter in SC was not affected by rotenone administration as evidenced from the non co-localization of any TUNEL(+) cells with GFAP-immunoreactivity and myelin basic protein (MBP)-immunoreactivity, the selective markers for astrocytes and oligodendrocytes, respectively. Increased activities of 76 kD active m-calpain and 17/19 kD active caspase-3 further demonstrated involvement of these enzymes in cell death in SC. The finding of ChAT(+) cell death also suggested degeneration of SC motoneurons in rotenone-induced experimental Parkinsonism. Thus, this is the first report of its kind in which the selective vulnerability of a putative parkinsonian target outside of nigrostriatal system has been tested using an environmental toxin to understand the pathophysiology of PD. Moreover, rotenone-induced degeneration of SC motoneuron in this model of experimental Parkinsonism progressed with upregulation of calpain and caspase-3.
The biophysical properties of a tetrodotoxin resistant (TTXr) sodium channel, Na(V)1.8, and its restricted expression to the peripheral sensory neurons suggest that blocking this channel might have therapeutic potential in various pain states and may offer improved tolerability compared with existing sodium channel blockers. However, the role of Na(V)1.8 in nociception cannot be tested using a traditional pharmacological approach with small molecules because currently available sodium channel blockers do not distinguish between sodium channel subtypes. We sought to determine whether small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) might be capable of achieving the desired selectivity. Using Northern blot analysis and membrane potential measurement, several siRNAs were identified that were capable of a highly-selective attenuation of Na(V)1.8 message as well as functional expression in clonal ND7/23 cells which were stably transfected with the rat Na(V)1.8 gene. Functional knockdown of the channel was confirmed using whole-cell voltage-clamp electrophysiology. One of the siRNA probes showing a robust knockdown of Na(V)1.8 current was evaluated for in vivo efficacy in reversing an established tactile allodynia in the rat chronic constriction nerve-injury (CCI) model. The siRNA, which was delivered to lumbar dorsal root ganglia (DRG) via an indwelling epidural cannula, caused a significant reduction of Na(V)1.8 mRNA expression in lumbar 4 and 5 (L4-L5) DRG neurons and consequently reversed mechanical allodynia in CCI rats. We conclude that silencing of Na(V)1.8 channel using a siRNA approach is capable of producing pain relief in the CCI model and further support a role for Na(V)1.8 in pathological sensory dysfunction.
Sensory systems are believed to play an important role in drug addiction, particularly in triggering craving and relapse, and it has been shown in previous studies that administration of cocaine can enhance evoked responses in the primary sensory cortex of experimental animals. Primary sensory cortex comprises a multi-layered structure to which a variety of roles have been assigned; an understanding of how cocaine affects evoked activity in these different layers may shed light on how drug-associated sensory cues gain control over behavior. The aim of the present study was to examine how cocaine affects whisker sensory responses in different layers of the primary sensory (barrel) cortex. Field potential and multi-unit activity were recorded from the cortex of anesthetized rats using 16 channel linear probes during repetitive (air puff) stimulation of the whiskers. In control conditions (under saline, i.v.), responses strongly adapted to the repeated sensory stimulation. Following an i.v. injection of cocaine (0.5 mg/kg, i.v.), this adaptation was strongly attenuated, giving each stimulus a more equal representation and weight. Attenuation of adaptation was more marked in the upper cortical layers in both field potential and multi-unit data. Indeed, in these layers, not only was adaptation attenuated but multi-unit response amplitudes under cocaine exceeded those under saline for stimuli occurring early in the train. The results extend our previous findings concerning the enhancement by cocaine of primary sensory responses. Insofar as enhanced neural responses equate to enhanced stimulus salience, the results indicate that cocaine may play a previously under-appreciated role in the formation of associations between drug and drug-related environmental cues by enhancing stimulus salience. The associative process itself may be assisted by a preferential action in the upper cortical layers, thought to be involved in learning and plasticity.
Motion-sensitive neurons in the blowfly brain present an ideal model system to study the cellular mechanisms and functional significance of adaptation to visual motion. Various adaptation processes have been described, but it is still largely unknown which of these processes are generated in the motion-sensitive neurons themselves and which originate at more peripheral processing stages. By input resistance measurements I demonstrate that direction-selective adaptation is generated by an activity-dependent conductance increase in the motion-sensitive neurons. Based on correlations between dendritic Ca(2+) accumulation and slow hyperpolarizing after-potentials following excitatory stimulation, a regulation of direction-selective adaptation by Ca(2+) has previously been suggested. In the present study, however, adaptation phenomena are not evoked when the cytosolic Ca(2+) concentration is elevated by ultraviolet photolysis of caged Ca(2+) in single neurons rather than by motion stimulation. This result renders it unlikely, that adaptation in fly motion-sensitive neurons is regulated by bulk cytosolic Ca(2+).
The aim of the present study was to investigate how the orientation and stabilization components of postural control may be affected as the result of the impaired proprioceptive integration possibly occurring in Parkinson's disease. To determine the proprioceptive contribution to postural control, parkinsonian patients and control subjects were asked to maintain vertical stance while very slow sinusoidal oscillations were being applied in the lateral and antero-posterior planes to the platform on which they were standing. The amplitude and frequency of their movements were kept below the semicircular canal perception threshold. Data were collected with the ELITE automatic motion analyzer and the two postural components (orientation and segmental stabilization) were analyzed at head and trunk levels while the subjects were performing the task with their eyes open and closed. The results show that 1) the parkinsonian groups' performances were affected in terms of both the postural orientation and stabilization components in comparison with the control group, 2) the use of vision improved the parkinsonian patients' postural performances, and 3) both parkinsonian patients and control subjects achieved better postural performances when antero-posterior perturbations rather than lateral perturbations were applied to the foot support. These results suggest that Parkinson's disease is associated with proprioceptive impairment, which may be an important factor contributing to these patients' postural deficits. On the basis of these results, the visual dependence observed in parkinsonian patients is re-defined as an adaptive strategy partly compensating for the impaired proprioception.
The trophic neuropeptide pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) increases in many different neuron types following injury; a response postulated to support cell survival and regeneration. In acutely isolated cardiac ganglia, approximately 1% of the cardiac neurons exhibited PACAP immunoreactivity whereas after 72 h in culture, approximately 25% of the neurons were PACAP immunoreactive. In contrast, there was no increase in vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP)-immunoreactive (IR) cells. Using a combination of immunocytochemical and molecular techniques, we have quantified PACAP expression, during explant culture of guinea-pig cardiac ganglia. Using real time polymerase chain reaction, PACAP transcript levels increased progressively up to 48 h in culture with no further increase after 72 h. PACAP transcript levels were reduced by neurturin at 48 h in culture but not after 24 or 72 h in culture. In addition, neurturin partially suppressed the percentage of PACAP-IR neurons after 72 h in culture, an effect mediated by activation of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase and mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling pathways. The addition of different known regulatory molecules, including ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF), interleukin-1 beta (Il-1beta), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha), fibroblast growth factor basic (bFGF), transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) and nerve growth factor (NGF) did not increase the percentage of PACAP-IR neurons after 24 h in culture; a result indicating that the generation and secretion of these factors did not stimulate PACAP expression. The presence of 20 nM PACAP or 10 muM forskolin increased the percentage of PACAP-IR cardiac neurons in 24 h cultures, but not in 72 h cultures. Neither treatment enhanced the number of VIP-IR neurons. The addition of the PACAP selective receptor (PAC(1)) receptor antagonist, M65 (100 nM) suppressed the 20 nM PACAP-induced increase in percentage of PACAP-IR cells in 24 h cultures indicating the effect of PACAP was mediated through the PAC(1) receptor. However, 100 nM M65 had no effect on the percentage of PACAP-IR cells in either 24 or 48 h cultures not treated with exogenous PACAP, suggesting that endogenous release of PACAP likely did not contribute to the enhanced peptide expression. We postulate that the enhanced PACAP expression, which occurs in response to injury is facilitated in the explant cultured cardiac ganglia by the loss of a target-derived inhibitory factor, very likely neurturin. In intact tissues the presence of neurturin would normally suppress PACAP expression. Lastly, our results indicate that many common trophic factors do not enhance PACAP expression in the cultured cardiac neurons. However, the stimulatory role of an, as yet, unidentified factor cannot be excluded.
Prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) is a prototypical inflammatory mediator that excites and sensitizes cell bodies [Kwong K, Lee LY (2002) PGE(2) sensitizes cultured pulmonary vagal sensory neurons to chemical and electrical stimuli. J Appl Physiol 93:1419-1428; Kwong K, Lee LY (2005) Prostaglandin E(2) potentiates a tetrodotoxin (TTX)-resistant sodium current in rat capsaicin-sensitive vagal pulmonary sensory neurons. J Physiol 56:437-450] and peripheral nerve terminals [Ho CY, Gu Q, Hong JL, Lee LY (2000) Prostaglandin E (2) enhances chemical and mechanical sensitivities of pulmonary C fibers in the rat. Am J Respir Crit Care Med 162:528-533] of primary vagal sensory neurons. Nearly all central nerve terminals of vagal afferents are in the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS), where they operate with a high probability of release [Doyle MW, Andresen MC (2001) Reliability of monosynaptic sensory transmission in brain stem neurons in vitro. J Neurophysiol 85:2213-2223]. We studied the effect of PGE(2) on synaptic transmission between tractus solitarius afferent nerve terminals and the second-order NTS neurons in brain stem slices of Sprague-Dawley rats. Whole-cell patch recording in voltage clamp mode was used to study evoked excitatory postsynaptic glutamatergic currents (evEPSCs) from NTS neurons elicited by electrical stimulation of the solitary tract (ST). In 34 neurons, bath-applied PGE(2) (200 nM) decreased the evEPSC amplitude by 49+/-5%. In 22 neurons, however, PGE(2) had no effect. We also tested 15 NTS neurons for capsaicin sensitivity. Seven neurons generated evEPSCs that were equally unaffected by PGE(2) and capsaicin. Conversely, evEPSCs of the other eight neurons, which were PGE(2)-responsive, were abolished by 200 nM capsaicin. Furthermore, the PGE(2-)induced depression of evEPSCs was associated with an increase in the paired pulse ratio and a decrease in both the frequency and amplitude of the spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents (sEPSCs) and TTX-independent spontaneous miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs). These results suggest that PGE(2) acts both presynaptically on nerve terminals and postsynaptically on NTS neurons to reduce glutamatergic responses.
Peripheral immune activation can have profound physiological and behavioral effects including induction of fever and sickness behavior. One mechanism through which immune activation or immunomodulation may affect physiology and behavior is via actions on brainstem neuromodulatory systems, such as serotonergic systems. We have found that peripheral immune activation with antigens derived from the nonpathogenic, saprophytic bacterium, Mycobacterium vaccae, activated a specific subset of serotonergic neurons in the interfascicular part of the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRI) of mice, as measured by quantification of c-Fos expression following intratracheal (12 h) or s.c. (6 h) administration of heat-killed, ultrasonically disrupted M. vaccae, or heat-killed, intact M. vaccae, respectively. These effects were apparent after immune activation by M. vaccae or its components but not by ovalbumin, which induces a qualitatively different immune response. The effects of immune activation were associated with increases in serotonin metabolism within the ventromedial prefrontal cortex, consistent with an effect of immune activation on mesolimbocortical serotonergic systems. The effects of M. vaccae administration on serotonergic systems were temporally associated with reductions in immobility in the forced swim test, consistent with the hypothesis that the stimulation of mesolimbocortical serotonergic systems by peripheral immune activation alters stress-related emotional behavior. These findings suggest that the immune-responsive subpopulation of serotonergic neurons in the DRI is likely to play an important role in the neural mechanisms underlying regulation of the physiological and pathophysiological responses to both acute and chronic immune activation, including regulation of mood during health and disease states. Together with previous studies, these findings also raise the possibility that immune stimulation activates a functionally and anatomically distinct subset of serotonergic neurons, different from the subset of serotonergic neurons activated by anxiogenic stimuli or uncontrollable stressors. Consequently, selective activation of specific subsets of serotonergic neurons may have distinct behavioral outcomes.
Cerebral hypoxia may be the main component of cell damage caused by ischemia. Previous studies demonstrated a neuroprotective effect of early hyperbaric oxygen (HBO) treatment in various animal models of focal cerebral ischemia. Neuropathologic study showed that exposure of HBO may prevent cell death in ischemic cortex. In the present study, we aimed to assess cellular function of ischemic rat brain after HBO treatment by means of a high-resolution positron emission tomography scanner (microPET) used specifically for small animal imaging. The male Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO), with the regional cerebral blood flow monitored in vivo by laser Doppler flowmetry. One hour after ischemia, HBO therapy (3 atm absolute, 1 h) was initiated. Local cerebral glucose utilization in the ischemic area was measured before, 1 h and 3 h after ischemia, with 2-[(18)F]-fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose (FDG) as a tracer. Neurological deficits and infarct volumes were assessed at 24 h after ischemia. Our study showed that early HBO therapy significantly reduced infarct volume of brain 24 h after ischemia. Moreover, glucose utilization in the ischemic area underwent a severe decrease during 1-3 h after MCAO, while the early HBO treatment significantly attenuated the decrease in cerebral metabolic rate of glucose in the ischemic core of the cortex compared with controls. We report for the first time the application of microPET to quantify the rates of glucose metabolism in the ischemic core of rats exposed to HBO. Our results suggest that the early exposure of HBO can partially reverse the downward trend for glucose utilization in the ischemic core, which might contribute to the reported beneficial effects of early HBO therapy on permanent cerebral ischemia.
Astrocytic glutamate transporters are considered an important target for neuroprotective therapies as the function of these transporters is abnormal in stroke and other neurological disorders associated with excitotoxicity. Recently, Rothstein et al., [Rothstein JD, Patel S, Regan MR, Haenggeli C, Huang YH, Bergles DE, Jin L, Dykes Hoberg M, Vidensky S, Chung DS, Toan SV, Bruijn LI, Su ZZ, Gupta P, Fisher PB (2005) Beta-lactam antibiotics offer neuroprotection by increasing glutamate transporter expression. Nature 433:73-77] reported that beta-lactam antibiotics (including ceftriaxone, which easily crosses the blood-brain barrier) increase glutamate transporter 1 (GLT-1) expression and reduce cell death resulting from oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) in dissociated embryonic cortical cultures. To determine whether a similar neuroprotective mechanism operates in more mature neurons, which show a different pattern of response to ischemia than primary cultures, we exposed acute hippocampal slices obtained from rats treated with ceftriaxone for 5 days (200 mg/kg; i.p.) to OGD. Whole-cell patch clamp recording of glutamate-induced N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) currents from CA1 pyramidal neurons showed a larger potentiation of these currents after application of 15 microM dl-threo-beta-benzyloxyaspartic acid (TBOA; a potent blocker of glutamate transporters) in ceftriaxone-injected animals than in untreated animals, indicating increased glutamate transporter activity. Western blot analysis did not reveal GLT-1 upregulation in the hippocampus. Delay to OGD-induced hypoxic spreading depression (HSD) recorded in slices obtained from ceftriaxone-treated rats was longer (6.3+/-0.2 vs. 5.2+/-0.2 min; P&lt;0.001) than that in the control group, demonstrating a neuroprotective action of the antibiotic in this model. The effect of ceftriaxone was also tested in organotypic hippocampal slices obtained from P7-9 rats (&gt;14 days in vitro). OGD or glutamate (3.5-5.0 mM) damaged CA1 pyramidal neurons as assessed by propidium iodide (PI) fluorescence. Similar damage was observed after pre-treatment with ceftriaxone (10-200 microM; 5 days) and ceftriaxone exposure did not result in GLT-1 upregulation as assayed by Western blot. Treatment of slice cultures with dibutyryl cAMP (100-250 microM; 5 days) increased GLT-1 expression but did not reduce cell damage induced by OGD or glutamate. Thus we confirm the neuroprotective effect of antibiotic exposure on OGD-induced injury, but suggest that this action is related to independent modulation of transporter activity rather than to the level of GLT-1 protein expression. In addition, our results indicate that the protective effects of beta-lactam antibiotics are highly dependent on the experimental model.
Deficits in sensory processing have been reported to be associated with an array of neuropsychiatric disorders including schizophrenia. Auditory sensory gating paradigms have been routinely used to test the integrity of inhibitory circuits hypothesized to filter sensory information. Abnormal dopaminergic neurotransmission has been implicated in the expression of schizophrenic symptoms. The aim of this study was to determine if inhibitory gating in response to paired auditory stimuli would occur in putative dopaminergic and non-dopaminergic midbrain neurons. A further goal of this study was to determine if restraint, a classic model of stress known to increase extracellular dopamine levels, and systemic haloperidol injections affected inhibitory mechanisms involved in sensory gating. Neural activity in the rat midbrain was recorded across paired auditory stimuli (first auditory stimulus (S1) and second auditory stimulus (S2)) under resting conditions, during restraint and after systemic haloperidol injections. Under resting conditions, a subset of putative GABA neurons showed fast, gated, short latency responses while putative dopamine neurons showed long, slow responses that were inhibitory and ungated. During restraint, gated responses in putative GABAergic neurons were decreased (increased S2/S1 or ratio of test to conditioning (T/C)) by reducing the response amplitude to S1. Systemic haloperidol decreased the T/C ratio by preferentially increasing response amplitude to S1. The results from this study suggest that individual neurons encode discrete components of the auditory sensory gating paradigm, that phasic midbrain GABAergic responses to S1 may trigger subsequent inhibitory filtering processes, and that these GABAergic responses are sensitive to restraint and systemic haloperidol.
We used an ABA renewal design to study the neural correlates, and role of D1 dopamine receptors, in contextual control over extinguished alcohol-seeking. Rats were trained to respond for 4% beer in one context (A), extinguished in a different (B) context, and then tested for responding in the original training context (A) or the extinction context (B). ABA renewal was mediated by D1 dopamine receptors because it was prevented by SCH23390. ABA renewal of alcohol-seeking was associated with selective increases in c-Fos protein induction in basolateral amygdala, ventral accumbens shell, and lateral hypothalamus (renewal-associated Fos). By contrast, being tested was associated with increased c-Fos induction in anterior cingulate, prelimbic and infralimbic cortex, rostral agranular insula, dorsomedial accumbens shell, and accumbens core (test-associated Fos). Renewal-associated Fos in ventral accumbens shell and lateral hypothalamus, but not basolateral amygdala, was D1 dopamine receptor dependent. Double immunofluorescence showed that renewal-associated Fos was expressed in orexin-negative lateral hypothalamic neurons. However, c-Fos induction in either lateral hypothalamic orexin-negative or orexin-positive neurons was positively and significantly correlated with alcohol-seeking. Test-associated c-Fos induction was observed in orexin-positive perifornical neurons. In both regions, c-Fos expression was dependent on D1 dopamine receptors. These results suggest that renewal of extinguished alcohol-seeking depends on a distributed neural circuit involving basolateral amygdala, ventral accumbens shell, and lateral hypothalamus that involves D1 dopamine receptors. Comparison with our previous results [Hamlin AS, Blatchford KE, McNally GP (2006) Renewal of an extinguished instrumental response: Neural correlates and the role of D1 dopamine receptors. Neuroscience 143:25-38] permits identification of similarities and differences in the correlates of renewal of extinguished drug- and natural-reward seeking.
GABA, the main inhibitory neurotransmitter in the adult brain, exerts its effects through multiple GABA(A) receptor subtypes with different pharmacological profiles, the alpha subunit variant mainly determining the binding properties of benzodiazepine site on the receptor protein. In adult experimental epileptic animals and in humans with epilepsy, increased excitation, i.e. seizures, alters GABA(A) receptor subunit expression leading to changes in the receptor structure, function, and pharmacology. Whether this also occurs in the developing brain, in which GABA has a trophic, excitatory effect, is not known. We have now applied autoradiography to study properties of GABA(A)/benzodiazepine receptors in 9-day-old rats acutely (6 h) and sub-acutely (7 days) after kainic acid-induced status epilepticus by analyzing displacement of [(3)H]flunitrazepam binding by zolpidem, a ligand selective for the alpha1beta2gamma2 receptor subtype. Regional changes in the binding properties were further corroborated at the cellular level by immunocytochemistry. The results revealed that status epilepticus significantly decreased displacement of [(3)H]flunitrazepam binding by zolpidem 6 h after the kainic acid-treatment in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus, parietal cortex, and thalamus, and in the hippocampal CA3 and CA1 cell layers 1 week after the treatment. Our results suggest that status epilepticus modifies region-specifically the pharmacological properties of GABA(A) receptors, and may thus disturb the normal, strictly developmentally-regulated maturation of zolpidem-sensitive GABA(A) receptors in the immature rat brain. A part of these changes could be due to alterations in the cell surface expression of receptor subtypes.
The delayed and selective vulnerability of post-ischemic hippocampal cornu ammonis (CA) 1 pyramidal neurons correlates with a lack of recovery of normal protein synthesis. Recent evidence implicates sequestration of translational machinery into protein aggregates and stress granules as factors underlying persistent translation arrest in CA1 neurons. However, the relationship between protein aggregates and stress granules during brain reperfusion is unknown. Here we investigated the colocalization of protein aggregates and stress granules using immunofluorescence microscopy and pair-wise double labeling for ubiquitin/T cell internal antigen (TIA-1), ubiquitin/small ribosomal subunit protein 6 (S6), and TIA-1/S6. We evaluated the rat dorsal hippocampus at 1, 2 or 3 days of reperfusion following a 10 min global brain ischemic insult. At 1 day of reperfusion, ubiquitin-containing aggregates (ubi-protein clusters) occurred in neurons but did not colocalize with stress granules. At 2 days' reperfusion, only in CA1, cytoplasmic protein aggregates colocalized with stress granules, and ubiquitin-containing inclusions accumulated in the nuclei of CA1 pyramidal neurons. Functionally, a convergence of stress granules and protein aggregates would be expected to sustain translation arrest and inhibit clearance of ubiquitinated proteins, both factors expected to contribute to CA1 pyramidal neuron vulnerability.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is a member of the neurotrophin family involved in plasticity and neuroprotective processes. In recent years, we have reported the presence of BDNF mRNA in the supraoptic nucleus (SON) as well its sensitivity to osmotic stress. The rat SON is a relatively homogenous nucleus mainly consisting of magnocellular soma with their dendritic processes. BDNF may be released from dendrites to the extracellular space to stimulate tyrosine kinase (Trk) B receptors which are hypothetically present on these subcellular SON compartments. The main goal of this work was thus to study the presence and the in vivo BDNF-IR release from SON using the push-pull perfusion technique following systemic (i.p.) or local (within the SON) osmotic stimulation. BDNF was detected by immunocytochemistry and its release was measured by immunological assay (ELISA). Likewise, TrkB receptor localization in the SON-mRNA and their respective proteins-were studied by in situ hybridization and immunohistofluorescence techniques, respectively. Phosphorylation of CREB was detected by immunohistofluorescence. We present here direct evidence of in vivo dendritic BDNF release from SON which is highly sensitive to osmotic stress. The osmotic response latency period clearly depends on the mode of stimulus application (210 min for i.p. route vs. 15 min for intra-SON administration). The fact that BDNF is released as a very rapid peak when osmotic stimulation is locally applied is strong evidence in favor of an intra-SON origin of this secretion. Osmotic stress also increased phosphorylated cAMP response element binding protein immunoreactivity in the SON. In addition, we show in control rats that truncated forms of tyrosine kinase B receptor 2 mRNA represent the most abundant messenger in the SON as compared with brain-derived neurotrophic factor full-length catalytic receptor or truncated forms of tyrosine kinase B receptor 1 mRNA. In conclusion, it is likely that BDNF and their receptors are involved in neuronal plasticity changes induced by osmotic stress in the SON.
The abnormal phosphorylations of tau, GSK3beta, and beta-catenin have been shown to perform a crucial function in the neuropathology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The primary objective of the current study was to determine the manner in which overexpressed htau23 interacts and regulates the behavior and phosphorylation characteristics of tau, GSK3beta, and beta-catenin. In order to accomplish this, transgenic mice expressing neuron-specific enolase (NSE)-controlled human wild-type tau (NSE/htau23) were created. Transgenic mice evidenced the following: (i) tendency toward memory impairments at later stages, (ii) dramatic overexpression of the tau transgene, coupled with increased tau phosphorylation and paired helical filaments (PHFs), (iii) high levels of GSK3beta phosphorylation with advanced age, resulting in increases in the phosphorylations of tau and beta-catenin, (iv) an inhibitory effect of lithium on the phosphorylations of tau, GSK3beta, and beta-catenin, but not in the non-transgenic littermate group. Therefore, the overexpression of NSE/htau23 in the brains of transgenic mice induces abnormal phosphorylations of tau, GSK3beta, and beta-catenin, which are ultimately linked to neuronal degeneration in cases of AD. These transgenic mice are expected to prove useful for the development of new drugs for the treatment of AD.
Adenylyl cyclases (ACs) convert ATP to cAMP and therefore, subserve multiple regulatory functions in the nervous system. AC1 and AC8 are the only cyclases stimulated by calcium and calmodulin, making them uniquely poised to regulate neuronal development and neuronal processes such as learning and memory. Here, we detail the production and application of a novel antibody against mouse AC1. Along with AC8 immunohistochemistry, these data reveal distinct and partially overlapping patterns of protein expression in brain during murine development and adulthood. AC1 protein increased in abundance in the neonatal hippocampus from postnatal days 7-14. By adulthood, abundant AC1 protein expression was observed in the mossy fiber tract in the hippocampus and the molecular layer in the cerebellum, with diffuse expression in the cortex and thalamus. AC8 protein levels were abundant during development, with diffuse and increasing expression in the hippocampus that intensified in the CA1/CA2 region by adulthood. AC8 expression was weak in the cerebellum at postnatal day 7 and decreased further by postnatal day 14. Analysis of synaptosome fractions from the adult brain demonstrated robust expression of AC1 in the postsynaptic density and extrasynaptic regions, while expression of AC8 was observed in the presynaptic active zone and extrasynaptic fractions. These findings were confirmed with localization of AC1 and/or AC8 with PSD-95, tau, synaptophysin and microtubule-associated protein-2 (MAP-2) expression throughout the brain. Together, these data provide insight into the functional roles of AC1 and AC8 in mice as reflected by their distinct localization in cellular and subcellular compartments.
Motor cortex lesions in rats partially denervate the striatum, producing behavioral deficits and inducing reactive neuroplasticity. Plastic responses include changes in growth-associated protein marker expression and anatomical restructuring. Corticostriatal plasticity is dependent on dopamine at the striatal target, where D1 receptor signaling reinforces behaviorally relevant neural activity. To determine whether striatal dopamine D1 receptor signaling is important for the growth-associated protein responses and behavioral recovery that follow unilateral motor cortex aspiration, the dopamine D1 receptor antagonist SCH23390 was intrastriatally infused in cortically lesioned animals. After a cortical aspiration lesion in Long Evans rats, the growth-associated proteins SCG10 and GAP-43 were upregulated in the cortex contralateral to the lesion at 30 days post-lesion. However, continuous unilateral intrastriatal infusion of SCH23390 prevented this aspiration-induced upregulation. Furthermore, lesioned rats demonstrated spontaneous sensorimotor improvement, in terms of limb-use symmetry, about 1 month post-lesion. This improvement was prevented with chronic intrastriatal SCH23390 infusion. The D1 receptor influence may be important to normalize corticostriatal activity (and observable behavior), either in a long-term manner or temporarily until other more permanent means of synaptic regulation, such as sprouting or synaptogenesis, may be implemented.
To gain insight into the mechanisms that control the generation or maintenance of the characteristic bipolar morphology of cochlear spiral ganglion neurons, we have taken advantage of our recently developed procedure for culture of dissociated newborn mouse spiral ganglion. In these cultures, inclusion of the cytokine leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) in the medium increases neuronal survival and the number of bipolar neurons. Here we tested effects of two other LIF-type cytokines (ciliary neurotrophic factor, CNTF; and human recombinant oncostatin M, hOSM) and of bone morphogenetic protein 4 (BMP4) on survival, morphology and neurite lengths of neurons in cultures of dissociated spiral ganglion. Like LIF, CNTF and hOSM increased neuronal survival and the number of surviving bipolar neurons. BMP4 also increased neuronal survival, but unlike LIF, CNTF and hOSM, increased the number of monopolar neurons and neurons with no neurites. In addition, population histograms demonstrate that the population lengths of the longer and shorter neurites of bipolar neurons were shorter in BMP4 containing cultures than in control or LIF cultures. When LIF and BMP4 were simultaneously added to the cultures, the BMP4 effects predominated. These experiments demonstrate that exposure to different environmental conditions can result in different morphologies in the surviving population of spiral ganglion neurons in culture.
Somatostatin is synthesized and released by aspiny GABAergic interneurons of the neostriatum, some of them identified as low threshold spike generating neurons (LTS-interneurons). These neurons make synaptic contacts with spiny neostriatal projection neurons. However, very few somatostatin actions on projection neurons have been described. The present work reports that somatostatin modulates the Ca(2+) activated K(+) currents (K(Ca) currents) expressed by projection cells. These actions contribute in designing the firing pattern of the spiny projection neuron; which is the output of the neostriatum. Small conductance (SK) and large conductance (BK) K(Ca) currents represent between 30% and 50% of the sustained outward current in spiny cells. Somatostatin reduces SK-type K(+) currents and at the same time enhances BK-type K(+) currents. This dual effect enhances the fast component of the after hyperpolarizing potential while reducing the slow component. Somatostatin then modifies the firing pattern of spiny neurons which changed from a tonic regular pattern to an interrupted &quot;stuttering&quot;-like pattern. Semi-quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tissue expression analysis of dorsal striatal somatostatinergic receptors (SSTR) mRNA revealed that all five SSTR mRNAs are present. However, single cell RT-PCR profiling suggests that the most probable receptor in charge of this modulation is the SSTR2 receptor. Interestingly, aspiny interneurons may exhibit a &quot;stuttering&quot;-like firing pattern. Therefore, somatostatin actions appear to be the entrainment of projection neurons to the rhythms generated by some interneurons. Somatostatin is then capable of modifying the processing and output of the neostriatum.
Ibotenic acid injected intracerebrally over a broad dose range to 5-day-old mice induces cystic white matter (WM) lesions that mimic periventricular leukomalacia (PVL) of preterm infants. With both low (0.1 mug) and high (5 mug) ibotenic acid doses, tissue-plasminogen activator (t-PA) is involved in cyst formation. Subsequent cyst growth depends on high doses. We evaluated the effects of human recombinant tissue-plasminogen activator (hrt-PA), plasmin inhibitors (tranexamic acid, alpha2-antiplasmin, and aprotinin), and anti-inflammatory drugs (betamethasone, NS-398) in wild-type and t-PA(-/-) mice given high-dose or low-dose ibotenic acid. Intracerebral hrt-PA induced WM cystic lesions in t-PA(-/-) mice and had an additive effect when co-injected with high-dose ibotenic acid. Plasmin inhibitors reduced lesion growth in wild-type mice given high-dose, but not low-dose, ibotenic acid but had no effect in t-PA(-/-) mice. Similarly the anti-inflammatory drugs betamethasone and NS-398 (a cyclooxygenase 2 and NFkappaB inhibitor) were neuroprotective in wild-type animals exposed to high-dose, but not low-dose, ibotenic acid. Thus, the t-PA-dependent effect of low-dose ibotenic acid on cyst formation appeared independent from plasmin activity or inflammation. Conversely, a t-PA-dependent inflammatory process occurred with high-dose ibotenic acid. Potential strategies for PVL in preterm neonates may include fibrinolytic monitoring for prevention and anti-inflammatory agents for treatment.
To screen for output signals that may distinguish the pacemaker in the mammalian suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) from peripheral-type oscillators in which the canonical clockworks are similarly regulated in a circadian manner, the rhythmic behavior of the transcriptome in forskolin-stimulated NIH/3T3 fibroblasts was analyzed and compared relative to SCN2.2 cells in vitro and the rat SCN. Similar to the circadian profiling of the SCN2.2 and rat SCN transcriptomes, NIH/3T3 fibroblasts exhibited circadian fluctuations in the expression of the core clock genes, Per2, Cry1, and Bmal1, and 323 functionally diverse transcripts, many of which regulate cellular communication. Overlap in rhythmic transcripts among NIH/3T3 fibroblasts, SCN2.2 cells, and the rat SCN was limited to these clock genes and four other genes that mediate fatty acid and lipid metabolism or function as nuclear factors. Compared with NIH/3T3 cells, circadian gene expression in SCN oscillators was more prevalent among genes mediating glucose metabolism and neurotransmission. Coupled with evidence for the rhythmic regulation of the inducible isoform of nitric oxide synthase (iNos) in SCN2.2 cells and the rat SCN but not in fibroblasts, studies examining the effects of a NOS inhibitor on metabolic rhythms in cocultures containing SCN2.2 cells and untreated NIH/3T3 cells suggest that the gaseous neurotransmitter nitric oxide may play a key role in SCN pacemaker function. This comparative analysis of circadian gene expression in SCN and non-SCN cells may have important implications in the selective analysis of circadian signals involved in the coupling of SCN oscillators and regulation of rhythmicity in downstream cells.
By measuring the adult human head during carotid endarterectomy, we investigate the depth sensitivity of two methods for deriving the absorption coefficient changes (Dmu(a)) from time-resolved reflectance data to absorption changes in inhomogeneous media: (1) the curve-fitting method based on the diffusion equation (DE-fit method) and (2) the time-independent calculation based on the modified Lambert-Beer law (MLB method). Remarkable differences in the determined values of Dmu(a) caused by clamping the external carotid artery and subsequently clamping the common carotid artery were observed between the methods. The DE-fit method was more sensitive to mu(a) changes in cerebral tissues, whereas the MLB method was rather sensitive to mu(a) changes in the extracerebral tissues. Our results indicated that the DE-fit was useful for monitoring the cerebral blood circulation and oxygenation during neurosurgical operations. In addition, the combined evaluation of mu(a) changes with the DE-fit and MLB methods will provide us with more available information about the hemodynamic changes in the depth direction.
Neuronal overmigration is the underlying cellular mechanism of cerebral cortical malformations in syndromes of congenital muscular dystrophies caused by defects in O-mannosyl glycosylation. Overmigration involves multiple developmental abnormalities in the brain surface basement membrane, Cajal-Retzius cells, and radial glia. We tested the hypothesis that breaches in basement membrane and the underlying glia limitans are the key initial events of the cellular pathomechanisms by carrying out a detailed developmental study with a mouse model of muscle-eye-brain disease, mice deficient in O-mannose beta1,2-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase 1 (POMGnT1). The pial basement membrane was normal in the knockout mouse at E11.5. It was breached during rapid cerebral cortical expansion at E13.5. Radial glial endfeet, which comprise glia limitans, grew out of the neural boundary. Neurons moved out of the neural boundary through these breaches. The overgrown radial glia and emigrated neurons disrupted the overlying pia mater. The overmigrated neurons did not participate in cortical plate (CP) development; rather they formed a diffuse cell zone (DCZ) outside the original cortical boundary. Together, the DCZ and the CP formed the knockout cerebral cortex, with disappearance of the basement membrane and the glia limitans. These results suggest that disappearance of the basement membrane and the glia limitans at the cerebral cortical surface during development underlies cortical lamination defects in congenital muscular dystrophies and a cellular mechanism of cortical malformation distinct from that of the reeler mouse, double cortex syndrome, and periventricular heterotopia.
Hippocampal structural plasticity induced by entorhinal cortex (EC) lesions has been studied extensively in the rat, but little comparable research has been conducted in primates. In the current study we assessed the long-term effects of bilateral aspiration lesions of the EC on multiple markers of circuit organization in the hippocampal dentate gyrus of young adult monkeys (Macaca fascicularis). Alternate histological sections were processed for the visualization of somatostatin and vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) immunoreactivity and acetylcholinesterase histochemistry (AChE). The markers revealed the distinct laminar organization of dentate gyrus circuitry for stereology-based morphometric quantification. Consistent with findings in rats, the volume of the somatostatin-immunopositive outer molecular layer (OML), innervated by projections from the EC, was decreased by 42% relative to control values. The inner molecular layer (IML) displayed a corresponding volumetric expansion in response to denervation of the OML as measured by AChE staining, but not when visualized for quantification by VAChT immunoreactivity. Nonetheless, stereological estimation revealed a 36% increase in the total length of VAChT-positive cholinergic fibers in the IML after EC damage, along with no change in the OML. Together, these findings suggest that despite substantial species differences in the organization of hippocampal circuitry, the capacity for reactive plasticity following EC damage, previously documented in rats, is at least partly conserved in the primate dentate gyrus.
Information that is spaced over time is better remembered than the same amount of information massed together. This phenomenon, known as the spacing effect, was explored with respect to its effect on learning and neurogenesis in the adult dentate gyrus of the hippocampal formation. Because the cells are generated over time and because learning enhances their survival, we hypothesized that training with spaced trials would rescue more new neurons from death than the same number of massed trials. In the first experiment, animals trained with spaced trials in the Morris water maze outperformed animals trained with massed trials, but there was not a direct effect of trial spacing on cell survival. Rather, animals that learned well retained more cells than animals that did not learn or learned poorly. Moreover, performance during acquisition correlated with the number of cells remaining in the dentate gyrus after training. In the second experiment, the time between blocks of trials was increased. Consequently, animals trained with spaced trials performed as well as those trained with massed, but remembered the location better two weeks later. The strength of that memory correlated with the number of new cells remaining in the hippocampus. Together, these data indicate that learning, and not mere exposure to training, enhances the survival of cells that are generated 1 wk before training. They also indicate that learning over an extended period of time induces a more persistent memory, which then relates to the number of cells that reside in the hippocampus.




GABA exerts excitatory actions on embryonic and neonatal cortical neurons, but the in vivo function of this GABA excitation is essentially unknown. Using in utero electroporation, we eliminated the excitatory action of GABA in a subpopulation of rat ventricular progenitors and cortical neurons derived from these progenitors by premature expression of the Cl- transporter KCC2, as confirmed by the changes in the reversal potential of GABA-induced currents and the resting membrane potential after GABA(A) receptor blockade. We found that radial migration to layer II/III of the somatosensory cortex of neurons derived from the transfected progenitors was not significantly affected, but their morphological maturation was markedly impaired. Furthermore, reducing neuronal excitability of cortical neurons in vivo by overexpressing an inward-rectifying K+ channel, which lowered the resting membrane potential, mimicked the effect of premature KCC2 expression. Thus, membrane depolarization caused by early GABA excitation is critical for morphological maturation of neonatal cortical neurons in vivo.
Target and activity-dependent mechanisms of axonal branching were studied in the thalamocortical (TC) projection using organotypic cocultures of the thalamus and cortex. TC axons were labeled with enhanced yellow fluorescent protein (EYFP) by a single-cell electroporation method and observed over time by confocal microscopy. Changes in the firing activity of cocultures grown on multielectrode dishes were also monitored over time. EYFP-labeled TC axons exhibited more branch formation in and around layer 4 of the cortical explant during the second week in vitro, when spontaneous firing activity increased in both thalamic and cortical cells. Time-lapse imaging further demonstrated that branching patterns were generated dynamically by addition and elimination with a bias toward branch accumulation in the target layer. To examine the relationship between neural activity and TC branch formation, the dynamics of axonal branching was analyzed under various pharmacological treatments. Chronic blockade of firing or synaptic activity reduced the remodeling process, in particular, branch addition in the target layer. However, extension of branches was not affected by this treatment. Together, these findings suggest that neural activity can modify the molecular mechanisms that regulate lamina-specific TC axon branching.
Auditory environments vary as a result of the appearance and disappearance of acoustic sources, as well as fluctuations characteristic of the sources themselves. The appearance of an object is often manifest as a transition in the pattern of ongoing fluctuation, rather than an onset or offset of acoustic power. How does the system detect and process such transitions? Based on magnetoencephalography data, we show that the temporal dynamics and response morphology of the neural temporal-edge detection processes depend in precise ways on the nature of the change. We measure auditory cortical responses to transitions between &quot;disorder,&quot; modeled as a sequence of random frequency tone pips, and &quot;order,&quot; modeled as a constant tone. Such transitions embody key characteristics of natural auditory edges. Early cortical responses (from approximately 50 ms post-transition) reveal that order-disorder transitions, and vice versa, are processed by different neural mechanisms. Their dynamics suggest that the auditory cortex optimally adjusts to stimulus statistics, even when this is not required for overt behavior. Furthermore, this response profile bears a striking similarity to that measured from another order-disorder transition, between interaurally correlated and uncorrelated noise, a radically different stimulus. This parallelism suggests the existence of a general mechanism that operates early in the processing stream on the abstract statistics of the auditory input, and is putatively related to the processes of constructing a new representation or detecting a deviation from a previously acquired model of the auditory scene. Together, the data reveal information about the mechanisms with which the brain samples, represents, and detects changes in the environment.
Musicians not only have extraordinary motor and sensory skills, but they also have an increased ability to learn new tasks compared with non-musicians. We examined how these features are expressed in neurophysiological parameters of excitability and plasticity in the motor system by comparing the results of 11 professional musicians and 8 age-matched non-musicians. Parameters of motor excitability were assessed using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to measure motor-evoked potentials (MEPs) together with recruitment of corticospinal projections [input-output curve (IOcurve)] and of short-latency intracortical inhibition (SICIcurve). Plasticity, here defined as change of synaptic effectiveness, was tested by measuring MEPs and IOcurves after paired associative stimulation (PAS), which consists of an electric median nerve stimulus repeatedly paired (200 times at 0.25 Hz) with a TMS pulse over the hand motor area. Using an interstimulus interval of 25 ms (PAS25) or 10 ms (PAS10), this leads to long-term potentiation- or long-term depression-like plasticity, respectively. Musicians showed steeper recruitment of MEPs and SICI (IOcurve and SICIcurve). Additionally, PAS25 increased and PAS10 decreased the MEP amplitudes and the slope of the IOcurves significantly more in musicians than in non-musicians. This is consistent with a wider modification range of synaptic plasticity in musicians. Together with the steeper recruitment of corticospinal excitatory and intracortical inhibitory projections, this suggests that they regulate plasticity and excitability with a higher gain than normal. Because some of these changes depend on age at which instrumental playing commenced and on practice intensity, they may reflect an increase in number and modifiability of synapses within the motor area caused by long-term musical practice.
Previous exposure to a pattern in the visual scene can enhance subsequent recognition of that pattern in many species from honeybees to humans. However, whether previous experience with a visual feature of an object, such as color or shape, can also facilitate later recognition of that particular feature from multiple visual features is largely unknown. Visual feature extraction is the ability to select the key component from multiple visual features. Using a visual flight simulator, we designed a novel protocol for visual feature extraction to investigate the effects of previous experience on visual reinforcement learning in Drosophila. We found that, after conditioning with a visual feature of objects among combinatorial shape-color features, wild-type flies exhibited poor ability to extract the correct visual feature. However, the ability for visual feature extraction was greatly enhanced in flies trained previously with that visual feature alone. Moreover, we demonstrated that flies might possess the ability to extract the abstract category of &quot;shape&quot; but not a particular shape. Finally, this experience-dependent feature extraction is absent in flies with defective MBs, one of the central brain structures in Drosophila. Our results indicate that previous experience can enhance visual feature extraction in Drosophila and that MBs are required for this experience-dependent visual cognition.
Specialized postsynaptic structures known as dendritic spines are the primary sites of glutamatergic innervation at synapses of the CNS. Previous studies have shown that spines rapidly remodel their actin cytoskeleton to modify their shape and this has been associated with changes in synaptic physiology. However, the receptors and signaling intermediates that restructure the actin network in spines are only beginning to be identified. We reported previously that the EphA4 receptor tyrosine kinase regulates spine morphology. However, the signaling pathways downstream of EphA4 that induce spine retraction on ephrin ligand binding remain poorly understood. Here, we demonstrate that ephrin stimulation of EphA4 leads to the recruitment and activation of phospholipase Cgamma1 (PLCgamma1) in heterologous cells and in hippocampal slices. This interaction occurs through an Src homology 2 domain of PLCgamma1 and requires the EphA4 juxtamembrane tyrosines. In the brain, PLCgamma1 is found in multiple compartments of synaptosomes and is readily found in postsynaptic density fractions. Consistent with this, PLC activity is required for the maintenance of spine morphology and ephrin-induced spine retraction. Remarkably, EphA4 and PLC activity modulate the association of the actin depolymerizing/severing factor cofilin with the plasma membrane. Because cofilin has been implicated previously in the structural plasticity of spines, this signaling may enable cofilin to depolymerize actin filaments and restructure spines at sites of ephrin-EphA4 contact.
Efficient behavior requires that internally specified motor plans be integrated with incoming sensory information. Motor preparation and visual signals converge in the intermediate and deep layers of the superior colliculus (SC) to influence saccade planning and execution; however, the mechanism by which these sometimes conflicting signals are combined remains unclear. We studied this issue by presenting visual distractors as monkeys prepared saccades toward an upcoming target whose timing and location were fully predictable. Monkeys made more distractor-directed errors when the spatial location of visual distractors more closely coincided with the saccadic goal. Concomitant pretarget activity of SC visuomotor neurons, whose response fields were centered on the saccadic goal, was similarly increased by the presentation of nearby distractors and inhibited by the presentation of distant distractors. Finally, subthreshold microstimulation of the SC shifted the pattern of distractor-directed errors away from the saccadic goal toward that specified by the site of stimulation. Together, our results suggest that the likelihood of saccade generation is influenced by the spatial register of internal motor preparation signals and external sensory signals across the topographically organized SC map.
In vitro studies of inferior olive neurons demonstrate that they are intrinsically active, generating periodic spatiotemporal patterns. These self-generated patterns of activity extend the role of olivary neurons beyond that of a deliverer of teaching or error signals. However, autorhythmicity or patterned activity of complex spikes in the cerebellar cortex was observed in only a few studies. This discrepancy between the self-generated rhythmicity in the inferior olive observed in vitro and the sporadic reports on rhythmicity of complex spikes can be reconciled by recording intracellularly from inferior olive neurons in situ. To this end, we recorded intracellularly from olivary neurons of anesthetized rats. We demonstrate that, in vivo, olivary neurons show both slow and fast rhythmic processes. The slow process (0.2-2 Hz) is expressed as rhythmic transitions from quiescent periods to periods of fast rhythm, manifested as subthreshold oscillations of 6-12 Hz. Spikes, if they occur, are locked to the depolarized phase of these subthreshold oscillations and, therefore, hold and transfer rhythmic information. The transient nature of these oscillatory epochs accounts for the difficulties to uncover them by prolonged recordings of complex spikes activity in the cerebellar cortex.
Most CNS systems, including the trigeminal-somatosensory system, develop via a hierarchical order (from the periphery and up the neuraxis). We tested the hypothesis that development of the trigeminal system can proceed via a nonhierarchical mechanism (i.e., that neuronogenesis can occur postnatally). Preweanling rats were perfused, and brain sections were stained with cresyl violet or immunolabeled with NeuN (for neuronal counts), or processed for acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity or p75 immunoreactivity [to identify boundaries of the ventrobasal nucleus (VB)]. Neuronal number decreased during the first postnatal week but increased 2.5-fold over the next 3 weeks. To determine whether this remarkable rise resulted from the generation of new neurons, preweanlings were given injections of bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) on postnatal day 6 (P6) or P21. BrdU-positive VB cells were apparent on both days. Cumulative BrdU labeling showed that the cell cycle was 17.3 h on P6. Moreover, Ki-67, a protein elaborated throughout the cell cycle, was expressed by 25.8-29.3% of all VB cells on P6-P15, falling to 7.7% by P21. BrdU-positive VB cells coexpressed neuronal markers: NeuN, HuC/D, microtubule-associated protein 2, and a dextran placed in the somatosensory cortex. Note that postnatal neuronal generation was also evident in other thalamic nuclei (e.g., the lateral geniculate nucleus). Thus, the developing VB experiences two periods of neuronal generation. Prenatal neuronogenesis is part of hierarchical trigeminal-somatosensory development. Postnatal nonhierarchical neuronogenesis is intrathalamic and matches changes in neuromodulatory systems (exemplified by AChE activity and p75) and the arrival of corticothalamic afferents.

Across different behavioural tasks, nucleus accumbens (n.acc) lesions have generated conflicting effects on locomotor activity and in particular, the relative roles of the n.acc shell and core subfields in this have been controversial. To date there is only one study examining effects of lesions to the medial n.acc on elevated plus-maze (EPM) behaviour; these lesions were shown to increase both locomotor and exploratory activity. Given the well-documented distinction between shell and core, the present study sought to extend previous research by testing lesions selective to each n.acc subfield in the EPM. Results showed no statistical differences between core lesioned and sham-operated animals on any measure. In contrast, shell lesions consistently reduced locomotion and exploratory activity. This direction of effects is opposite to that previously observed after medial n.acc. lesions. In conclusion, locomotion and exploratory activity were clearly reduced by shell but not core lesions, consistent with other evidence for the functional heterogeneity of n.acc shell and core.
Plexins are receptors for multiple classes of semaphorins, either alone or in combination with neuropilins. Plexins participate in many cellular events that include axonal repulsion, axonal attraction, cell migration, axon pruning, and synaptic plasticity. PLXNA2 maps to chromosome 1q32. Several linkage studies reported schizophrenia susceptibility loci in the 1q22-42 region. A recent study reported that intronic single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of PLXNA2 were associated with schizophrenia in a European American population. We attempted to replicate this finding in a Japanese sample of 336 patients with schizophrenia and 304 controls. In addition, we examined 3 non-synonymous SNPs (Arg5Gln, GLn57Arg, and Ala267Thr) in PLXNA2. Genotyping was performed by the TaqMan allelic discrimination assay. There was no significant difference in genotype or allele distribution of either the 4 intronic SNPs or the 3 non-synonymous SNPs between patients and controls. Furthermore, haplotype-based analyses did not provide evidence for an association. These results suggest that PLXNA2 may not play a major role in the development of schizophrenia in our Japanese sample.

Reward processing depends on dopaminergic neurotransmission and is modulated by factors affecting dopamine (DA) reuptake and degradation. We used fMRI and a guessing task sensitive to reward-related activation in the prefrontal cortex and ventral striatum to study how individual variation in genes contributing to DA reuptake [DA transporter (DAT)] and degradation [catechol-o-methyltransferase (COMT)] influences reward processing. Prefrontal activity, evoked by anticipation of reward irrespective of reward probability and magnitude, was COMT genotype-dependent. Volunteers homozygous for the Met allele, associated with lower enzyme activity and presumably greater DA availability, showed larger responses compared with volunteers homozygous for the Val allele. A similar COMT effect was observed in the ventral striatum. As reported previously, the ventral striatum was also found to code gain-related expected value, i.e., the product of reward magnitude and gain probability. Individual differences in ventral striatal sensitivity for value were in part explained by an epistatic gene-gene interaction between COMT and DAT. Although most genotype combinations exhibited the expected activity increase with more likely and larger rewards, two genotype combinations (COMT Met/Met DAT 10R and COMT Val/Val 9R) were associated with blunted ventral striatal responses. In view of a consistent relationship between reduced reward sensitivity and addiction, our findings point to a potential genetic basis for vulnerability to addiction.
The responses of sensory neurons to repeated presentations of identical stimuli can be highly reproducible. Little is known about the reliability of the motor command signals carried by individual premotor neurons. We measured the variability in the interspike intervals of the high-frequency, saccade-related bursts generated by neurons in the pontine reticular formation. During movements having similar amplitudes and velocity profiles, the interspike intervals of the high-frequency component of the bursts are very similar. The low variability in interspike intervals cannot be attributed to a burst mode characterized by fixed interspike times. Different, but repeatable, burst patterns are observed when movements having approximately the same amplitude but different velocity profiles occur. These findings suggest that the discharge of a single pontine cell is strongly correlated with the activity of other pontine burst cells. Both the high temporal precision of the saccade-related bursts and the correlated activity of pontine burst cells reduce variability in the signals sent to the motoneuron pools and, thereby, contribute to the accuracy and precision of saccadic eye movements.
The phase of spikes of hippocampal pyramidal cells relative to the local field theta oscillation shifts forward (&quot;phase precession&quot;) over a full theta cycle as the animal crosses the cell's receptive field (&quot;place field&quot;). The linear relationship between the phase of the spikes and the travel distance within the place field is independent of the animal's running speed. This invariance of the phase-distance relationship is likely to be important for coordinated activity of hippocampal cells and space coding, yet the mechanism responsible for it is not known. Here we show that at faster running speeds place cells are active for fewer theta cycles but oscillate at a higher frequency and emit more spikes per cycle. As a result, the phase shift of spikes from cycle to cycle (i.e., temporal precession slope) is faster, yet spatial-phase precession stays unchanged. Interneurons can also show transient-phase precession and contribute to the formation of coherently precessing assemblies. We hypothesize that the speed-correlated acceleration of place cell assembly oscillation is responsible for the phase-distance invariance of hippocampal place cells.
The study of how the retina processes the photic information required for the entrainment of the circadian system is an exciting new topic in retinal neurobiology. We have recently shown that in RCS/N-rdy rats melanopsin mRNA levels are dramatically reduced (about 90%) and melanopsin immunoreactivity cannot be detected in the retina of these rats at 60 days of age. Although RCS/N-rdy rats are a widely used model to investigate mechanisms of photoreceptor degeneration, no study has investigated circadian photoreception in these animals. The aim of this study was to examine circadian photoreception in RCS/N-rdy(+) (rdy(+)) rats homozygous for the normal rdy allele and age-matched RCS/N-rdy (rdy) homozygotes with retinal dystrophy. No differences between RCS/N-rdy and rdy(+) were observed in light-induced phase shift of locomotor activity at the three light intensities used (1 x 10(-3), 1 x 10(-1), and 1 x 10(1) microW cm(-2)). Surprisingly, we observed that in RCS/N-rdy the free-running period of the circadian rhythm of locomotor activity was shorter (P&lt;0.01) than in rdy(+), thus suggesting that photoreceptor degeneration may affect the free-running period of the locomotor activity rhythm.
The temporal dynamics of processing morphologically complex words was investigated by recording event-related brain potentials (ERPs) when native Finnish-speakers performed a visual lexical decision task. Behaviorally, there is evidence that recognition of inflected nouns elicits a processing cost (i.e., longer reaction times and higher error rates) in comparison to matched monomorphemic words. We aimed to reveal whether the processing cost stems from decomposition at the early visual word form level or from re-composition at the later semantic-syntactic level. The ERPs showed no early effects for morphology, but revealed an interaction with word frequency at a late N400-type component, as well as a late positive component that was larger for inflected words. These results suggest that the processing cost stems mainly from the semantic-syntactic level. We also studied the features of the morphological decomposition route by investigating the recognition of pseudowords carrying real morphemes. The results showed no differences between inflected vs. uninflected pseudowords with a false stem, but differences in relation to those with a real stem, suggesting that a recognizable stem is needed to initiate the decomposition route.
Synaptic pathology is associated with protein accumulation events, and is thought by many to be the best correlate of cognitive impairment in normal aging and different types of dementia including Alzheimer's disease. Numerous studies point to the disruption of microtubule-based transport mechanisms as a contributor to synaptic degeneration. Reported reductions in a microtubule stability marker, acetylated alpha-tubulin, suggest that disrupted transport occurs in Alzheimer's disease neurons, and such a reduction is known to be associated with transport failure and synaptic compromise in a hippocampal slice model of protein accumulation. The slice model exhibits accumulated proteins in response to chloroquine-mediated lysosomal dysfunction, resulting in corresponding decreases in acetylated tubulin and pre- and postsynaptic markers (synaptophysin and glutamate receptors). To test whether the protein deposition-induced loss of synaptic proteins is due to disruption of microtubule integrity, a potent microtubule-stabilizing agent, the taxol derivative TX67 (10-succinyl paclitaxel), was applied to the hippocampal slice cultures. In the absence of lysosomal stress, TX67 (100-300 nM) provided microtubule stabilization as indicated by markedly increased levels of acetylated tubulin. When TX67 was applied to the slices during the chloroquine treatment period, pre- and postsynaptic markers were maintained at control levels. In addition, a correlation was evident across slice samples between levels of acetylated tubulin and glutamate receptor subunit GluR1. These data indicate that disruption of microtubule integrity accounts for protein deposition-induced synaptic decline. They also suggest that microtubule-stabilizing drugs can be used to slow or halt the progressive synaptic deterioration linked to Alzheimer-type pathogenesis.
Neuronal Nogo66 receptor-1 (NgR1) binds the myelin inhibitors NogoA, OMgp, and myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG) and has been proposed to function as the ligand-binding component of a receptor complex that also includes Lingo-1, p75(NTR), or TROY. In this study, we use Vibrio cholerae neuraminidase (VCN) and mouse genetics to probe the molecular composition of the MAG receptor complex in postnatal retinal ganglion cells (RGCs). We find that VCN treatment is not sufficient to release MAG inhibition of RGCs; however, it does attenuate MAG inhibition of cerebellar granule neurons. Furthermore, the loss of p75(NTR) is not sufficient to release MAG inhibition of RGCs, but p75(NTR-/-) dorsal root ganglion neurons show enhanced growth on MAG compared to wild-type controls. Interestingly, TROY is not a functional substitute for p75(NTR) in RGCs. Finally, NgR1(-/-) RGCs are strongly inhibited by MAG. In the presence of VCN, however, NgR1(-/-) RGCs exhibit enhanced neurite growth. Collectively, our experiments reveal distinct and cell type-specific mechanisms for MAG-elicited growth inhibition.

We investigated the role of hippocampal metabotropic glutamate receptors in spatial learning and memory, using an eight-arm radial maze task. (S)-4-Carboxyphenylglycine, a group I metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonist, or trans-(+/-)-1-amino-(1S,3R)-cyclopentanedicarboxylic acid, a broad-spectrum metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist, was administered into the dorsal hippocampus after rats had acquired the task. Both of these agents significantly impaired radial maze performance, suggesting a functional importance of hippocampal metabotropic glutamate receptors in spatial working memory.
Neural activity was recorded from the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus of behaving rats during the discrimination of olfactory cues associated with or without a reward. Approximately 10% of mediodorsal thalamic neurons showed significant responses during the presentation of cues. Most of these neurons responded strongly to cues associated with a reward. These neurons also differentiated between cues, even in the same reinforcement (reward/nonreward) group. All of the neurons tested in extinction, relearning, and/or new-learning trials changed their responses flexibly according to the reward contingency. These neurons were located primarily in the central and medial segments of the mediodorsal thalamus. These results suggest that these mediodorsal thalamic neurons are the neural substrates for association learning of olfactory stimuli with rewards.
This study investigated the effects of bone marrow stromal cells transplantation on Alzheimer's disease (AD). Bone marrow stromal cells (BMSC) were obtained from the bone marrow of transgenic mice expressing green fluorescent protein and transplanted into the hippocampus of rats, which had received an injection of beta amyloid protein into the hippocampus 8 days earlier. Morris Water Maze test was used to observe behavior 2 weeks after transplantation. The survival and differentiation of the grafts were studied immunohistochemically. Behavior improved significantly in the transplanted group. The transplanted BMSC survived and presented ChAT-like neurons, indicating that these transplanted cells might differentiate into cholinergic neurons and the procedure could be a promising therapy for Alzheimer's disease.
State-of-the-art multi-pinhole SPECT devices allow for sub-mm resolution imaging of radio-molecule distributions in small laboratory animals. The optimization of multi-pinhole and detector geometries using simulations based on ray-tracing or Monte Carlo algorithms is time-consuming, particularly because many system parameters need to be varied. As an efficient alternative we develop a continuous analytical model of a pinhole SPECT system with a stationary detector set-up, which we apply to focused imaging of a mouse. The model assumes that the multi-pinhole collimator and the detector both have the shape of a spherical layer, and uses analytical expressions for effective pinhole diameters, sensitivity and spatial resolution. For fixed fields-of-view, a pinhole-diameter adapting feedback loop allows for the comparison of the system resolution of different systems at equal system sensitivity, and vice versa. The model predicts that (i) for optimal resolution or sensitivity the collimator layer with pinholes should be placed as closely as possible around the animal given a fixed detector layer, (ii) with high-resolution detectors a resolution improvement up to 31% can be achieved compared to optimized systems, (iii) high-resolution detectors can be placed close to the collimator without significant resolution losses, (iv) interestingly, systems with a physical pinhole diameter of 0 mm can have an excellent resolution when high-resolution detectors are used.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) are target-derived proteins that regulate innervating sympathetic neurons. Here, we used western blot analysis to investigate changes in NGF and NT-3 protein in several peripheral tissues following loss of sympathetic input. Following removal of the superior cervical ganglion (SCG), large molecular weight (MW) NGF species, including proNGF-A, were increased in distal intracranial SCG targets, such as pineal gland and extracerebral blood vessels (bv). Mature NGF was a minor species in these tissues and unchanged following sympathectomy. Large MW NGF species also were increased when sympathectomy was followed by in vivo NGF administration. Mature NT-3, which was abundant in controls, was significantly decreased in these targets following sympathetic denervation. The decrease in mature NT-3 was enhanced following NGF administration. The trigeminal ganglion, which provides sensory input to these targets, showed increased NGF, but decreased NT-3, in these treatments, demonstrating that decreased NT-3 at the targets did not result from enhanced NT-3 uptake. Unlike pineal gland and extracerebral bv, the external carotid artery, an extracranial proximal SCG target, showed no change in NGF following denervation, and mature NT-3 was significantly increased. Following NGF administration, NT-3 was significantly decreased. We provide evidence for sympathetic regulation of NGF and NT-3 in peripheral targets and that elevated NGF can depress NT-3. The differential response in distal and proximal adult targets is consistent with the idea that neurons innervating proximal and distal targets may serve different roles in regulating neurotrophin protein. In addition, we conclude that previous ELISA results showing increased NGF protein following sympathetic denervation may have resulted from increases in large MW species, rather than an increase in mature NGF.
Axon/dendrite differentiation is a critical step in neuronal development. In cultured hippocampal neurons, the accumulation of LKB1 and STRAD, two interacting proteins critical for establishing epithelial polarity, in an undifferentiated neurite correlates with its subsequent axon differentiation. Downregulation of either LKB1 or STRAD by siRNAs prevented axon differentiation, and overexpression of these proteins led to multiple axon formation. Furthermore, interaction of STRAD with LKB1 promoted LKB1 phosphorylation at a PKA site S431 and elevated the LKB1 level, and overexpressing LKB1 with a serine-to-alanine mutation at S431 (LKB1(S431A)) prevented axon differentiation. In developing cortical neurons in vivo, downregulation of LKB1 or overexpression of LKB1(S431A) also abolished axon formation. Finally, local exposure of the undifferentiated neurite to brain-derived neurotrophic factor or dibutyryl-cAMP promoted axon differentiation in a manner that depended on PKA-dependent LKB1 phosphorylation. Thus local LKB1/STRAD accumulation and PKA-dependent LKB1 phosphorylation represents an early signal for axon initiation.
The polarization of axon and dendrites underlies the ability of neurons to integrate and transmit information in the brain. We show here that the serine/threonine kinase LKB1, previously implicated in the establishment of epithelial polarity and control of cell growth, is required for axon specification during neuronal polarization in the mammalian cerebral cortex. LKB1 polarizing activity requires its association with the pseudokinase Stradalpha and phosphorylation by kinases such as PKA and p90RSK, which transduce neurite outgrowth-promoting cues. Once activated, LKB1 phosphorylates and thereby activates SAD-A and SAD-B kinases, which are also required for neuronal polarization in the cerebral cortex. SAD kinases, in turn, phosphorylate effectors such as microtubule-associated proteins that implement polarization. Thus, we provide evidence in vivo and in vitro for a multikinase pathway that links extracellular signals to the intracellular machinery required for axon specification.
Determining which neurite of a differentiating neuron is to become the axon is a crucial step in neuronal morphogenesis. Two groups (Barnes et al., 2007; Shelly et al., 2007) now report that axon specification in vivo is mediated by extracellular signals acting through the serine/threonine kinase LKB1.
Anthropomorphism, the use of human characteristics as a foundation for interpreting behavior and mental capacities of animals, is a bias undermining our understanding of other species, especially species as evolutionarily distant from humans as fishes. Anthropomorphism is not justified by allusions to evolutionary continuity among vertebrates, because no living vertebrate was ever a descendant of humans, so none could have inherited human traits. Nonetheless, it has recently been claimed that fishes are capable of conscious experiences of pain and emotional feelings and that mental welfare is an important issue for fishes. This paper shows that the evidence supporting claims for experiences of pain or conscious emotions by fishes is conceptually and methodologically flawed. In addition, the paper shows that the natural history and behavior of diverse fish species is inconsistent with a presumption of human-like awareness. This behavioral evidence is in accord with neurobiological observations showing that fishes are very different from us and are unlikely to have a capacity for awareness of pain or emotional feelings that meaningfully resemble our own. The factors that are detrimental to fish welfare have been well delineated by valid, objective indicators of physiological and behavioral well-being. This knowledge should guide welfare decisions. An empirical and non-anthropomorphic examination of diverse fishes and their adaptations should be the foundation for welfare decisions that would be truly beneficial to fishes and humans alike.
A fundamental question in neuroscience is how the brain transforms visual signals into accurate three-dimensional (3-D) reach commands, but surprisingly this has never been formally modeled. Here, we developed such a model and tested its predictions experimentally in humans. Our visuomotor transformation model used visual information about current hand and desired target positions to compute the visual (gaze-centered) desired movement vector. It then transformed these eye-centered plans into shoulder-centered motor plans using extraretinal eye and head position signals accounting for the complete 3-D eye-in-head and head-on-shoulder geometry (i.e., translation and rotation). We compared actual memory-guided reaching performance to the predictions of the model. By removing extraretinal signals (i.e., eye-head rotations and the offset between the centers of rotation of the eye and head) from the model, we developed a compensation index describing how accurately the brain performs the 3-D visuomotor transformation for different head-restrained and head-unrestrained gaze positions as well as for eye and head roll. Overall, subjects did not show errors predicted when extraretinal signals were ignored. Their reaching performance was accurate and the compensation index revealed that subjects accounted for the 3-D visuomotor transformation geometry. This was also the case for the initial portion of the movement (before proprioceptive feedback) indicating that the desired reach plan is computed in a feed-forward fashion. These findings show that the visuomotor transformation for reaching implements an internal model of the complete eye-to-shoulder linkage geometry and does not only rely on feedback control mechanisms. We discuss the relevance of this model in predicting reaching behavior in several patient groups.
We found that, in the mouse visual cortex, action potentials generated in a single layer-2/3 pyramidal (excitatory) neuron can reliably evoke large, constant-latency inhibitory postsynaptic currents in other nearby pyramidal cells. This effect is mediated by axo-axonic ionotropic glutamate receptor-mediated excitation of the nerve terminals of inhibitory interneurons, which connect to the target pyramidal cells. Therefore, individual cortical excitatory neurons can generate inhibition independently from the somatic firing of inhibitory interneurons.

The CRF antagonist pharmacophore is a heterocyclic ring bearing a critical hydrogen-bond acceptor nitrogen and an orthogonal aromatic ring. CRFR1 antagonists have shown a 40-fold and 200-fold loss in potency against the CRFR1 H199V and M276I mutant receptors, suggesting key interactions with these residues. We have derived a two component computational model that correlates CRFR1 binding affinity within the reported series to antagoinst/H199 complexation energy and M276 hydrophobic contacts.
Previous experiments in the hippocampal CA1 area have shown that corticosterone can facilitate long-term potentiation (LTP) in a rapid non-genomic fashion, while the same hormone suppresses LTP that is induced several hours after hormone application. Here, we elaborated on this finding by examining whether corticosterone exerts opposite effects on LTP depending on the timing of hormone application in the dentate gyrus as well. Moreover, we tested rapid and delayed actions by corticosterone on beta-adrenergic-dependent changes in LTP. Unlike the CA1 region, our in vitro field potential recordings show that rapid effects of corticosterone do not influence LTP induced by mild tetanization in the hippocampal dentate gyrus, unless GABA(A) receptors are blocked. In contrast, the beta-adrenergic agonist isoproterenol does initiate a slow-onset, limited amount of potentiation. When corticosterone was applied concurrently with isoproterenol, a further enhancement of synaptic strength was identified, especially during the early stage of potentiation. Yet, treatment with corticosterone several hours in advance of isoproterenol fully prevented any effect of isoproterenol on LTP. This emphasizes that corticosterone can regulate beta-adrenergic modulation of synaptic plasticity in opposite directions, depending on the timing of hormone application.
A major characteristic of age-related changes in memory in rodents is an increase in the rate of forgetting of new information, even when tests given soon after training reveal intact memory. Interference with CREB functions similarly results in rapid decay of memory. Using quantitative immunocytochemistry, the present experiment examined the number of CREB- and pCREB-immunoreactive neurons in three regions of the dorsal and ventral hippocampus (dentate gyrus, CA3, and CA1) as a function of age and training. Rats were trained in a social transmission of food preference task. Using different food pairings, memory was tested in each rat immediately and 1, 2, 3, and 7 d later. Both young and old rats had intact and comparable memory scores at the immediate and 24-h tests, but old rats exhibited more rapid forgetting thereafter relative to that of young rats. The main findings were that training resulted in large increases in the number of pCREB-immunoreactive cells throughout the hippocampus in both young and aged rats. However, particularly in the ventral hippocampus, the training-elicited increase in pCREB-positive neurons was significantly lower in old than in young rats. Based on Western blot analyses in a separate set of rats, CREB levels were not responsive to training but were lower in the ventral hippocampus of old rats than of young rats. The present findings suggest that lower activation of CREB after training may contribute to the rapid forgetting seen in aged rats.

Via its extracellular N-terminal domain (NTD), the AMPA receptor subunit GluR2 promotes the formation and growth of dendritic spines in cultured hippocampal neurons. Here we show that the first N-terminal 92 amino acids of the extracellular domain are necessary and sufficient for GluR2's spine-promoting activity. Moreover, overexpression of this extracellular domain increases the frequency of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs). Biochemically, the NTD of GluR2 can interact directly with the cell adhesion molecule N-cadherin, in cis or in trans. N-cadherin-coated beads recruit GluR2 on the surface of hippocampal neurons, and N-cadherin immobilization decreases GluR2 lateral diffusion on the neuronal surface. RNAi knockdown of N-cadherin prevents the enhancing effect of GluR2 on spine morphogenesis and mEPSC frequency. Our data indicate that in hippocampal neurons N-cadherin and GluR2 form a synaptic complex that stimulates presynaptic development and function as well as promoting dendritic spine formation.
The cytoskeletal regulators that mediate the change in the neuronal cytoskeletal machinery from one that promotes oriented motility to one that facilitates differentiation at the appropriate locations in the developing neocortex remain unknown. We found that Nck-associated protein 1 (Nap1), an adaptor protein thought to modulate actin nucleation, is selectively expressed in the developing cortical plate, where neurons terminate their migration and initiate laminar-specific differentiation. Loss of Nap1 function disrupts neuronal differentiation. Premature expression of Nap1 in migrating neurons retards migration and promotes postmigratory differentiation. Nap1 gene mutation in mice leads to neural tube and neuronal differentiation defects. Disruption of Nap1 retards the ability to localize key actin cytoskeletal regulators such as WAVE1 to the protrusive edges where they are needed to elaborate process outgrowth. Thus, Nap1 plays an essential role in facilitating neuronal cytoskeletal changes underlying the postmigratory differentiation of cortical neurons, a critical step in functional wiring of the cortex.
Centrally released oxytocin regulates maternal behavior, social memory, and social bonding. A recent paper by Jin et al. published in Nature demonstrates that the transmembrane receptor CD38 plays a critical role in regulating social behaviors by regulating the release of OT from hypothalamic neurons.
The physiological mechanism through which food restriction (FR) enhances the biobehavioral actions of psychostimulants is unknown but may involve the gut peptide ghrelin. Plasma levels of ghrelin are increased by FR and reduced by eating. Moreover, systemically administered ghrelin crosses into the brain and is known to augment the locomotor-stimulating effects of cocaine [COC: Wellman et al., 2005]. This study sought to determine whether pretreatment with ghrelin (5 nmol) would enhance the rewarding properties of COC (0.0, 0.312, 0.625, or 1.25 mg/kg i.p.) as measured by conditioned place preference (CPP). Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were given free access to both sides of a CPP chamber to determine initial side preference. The rats were then confined for 30 min to either their preferred side or non-preferred side on 8 consecutive days. When rats were confined to the least preferred side, each was injected with 0.5 ml (i.p.) of either ghrelin (5 nmol) or saline 1 h before the conditioning trial and then injected (i.p.) with one of the COC doses immediately prior to the conditioning trial. On alternate days, rats were injected with vehicle one hour before and again immediately before the conditioning trial. Place preference scores were computed as the differences in time (min) spent on the least preferred side of the chamber for the pre-test and the postconditioning test, covaried by the initial degree of preference (% time spent on the black side during the pre-test). These analyses indicated a significant interaction between ghrelin pretreatment and COC dose on changes in preference scores. Significantly higher place preference scores were noted for rats treated with either 0.312 or 0.625 mg/kg COC doses, but only when these COC doses were preceded by administration of 5 nmol ghrelin. In contrast, saline pretreated rats exhibited significant CPP at the 1.25 mg/kg COC dose, but the ghrelin pretreated group did not. These results provide partial support for the contention that ghrelin pretreatment can augment the rewarding effects of sub-threshold doses of COC in a CPP procedure. Moreover, these findings are consistent with the view that ghrelin may play a role in the capacity of FR to augment psychostimulant action.
Neuronal stem cell expansion and differentiation is a process involving stages of proliferation and maturation governed by the sequential and combinatorial exposure of cells to extrinsic factors. The olfactory epithelium is an excellent model to investigate regulation of this process, as it undergoes neuronal replacement post-natally. We have shown that the neurotrophins NGF and BDNF sequentially promote proliferation of developing olfactory sensory neuronal precursors, although their kinetics of proliferation and cell fate outcomes differ. Interestingly, CNP inhibits this neurotrophin-induced proliferation and promotes the maturation of these precursors to their next developmental stage. Here, we investigate the mechanisms behind these actions. Both NGF and BDNF increase the expression of cyclin D1 and cyclin-dependent kinase 4 (cdk4), with temporal expression patterns that parallel the proliferation kinetics of their cellular targets. The timing of cyclin D1 expression reflects differences in the need for transcription and translation in early and late stage precursors. CNP inhibits neurotrophin-induced cyclin D1 expression, and induces the expression of different profiles of inhibitory cell cycle proteins, which are neurotrophin-specific and correlate with the attainment of different maturational cell fates. Inhibition of protein degradation reverses the effects of neurotrophins and CNP on cyclin D1 and inhibitor expression levels, respectively. These results suggest a model for cell cycle regulation that involves the simultaneous expression of progressive and inhibitory cell cycle regulatory proteins in response to both proliferation and differentiation agents, followed by selective degradation of these proteins, providing a mechanism for rapid and exquisite control of the cell cycle.
AMPA-type glutamate receptors (GluRs) mediate most excitatory signaling in the brain and are composed of GluR principal subunits and transmembrane AMPA receptor regulatory protein (TARP) auxiliary subunits. Previous studies identified four mammalian TARPs, gamma-2 (or stargazin), gamma-3, gamma-4, and gamma-8, that control AMPA receptor trafficking, gating, and pharmacology. Here, we explore roles for the homologous gamma-5 and gamma-7 proteins, which were previously suggested not to serve as TARPs. Western blotting reveals high levels of gamma-5 and gamma-7 in the cerebellum, where gamma-7 is enriched in Purkinje neurons in the molecular layer and glomerular synapses in the granule cell layer. Immunoprecipitation proteomics shows that cerebellar gamma-7 avidly and selectively binds to AMPA receptor GluR subunits and also binds to the AMPA receptor clustering protein, postsynaptic density-95 (PSD-95). Furthermore, gamma-7 occurs together with PSD-95 and AMPA receptor subunits in purified postsynaptic densities. In heterologous cells, gamma-7 but not gamma-5 greatly enhances AMPA receptor glutamate-evoked currents and modulates channel gating. In granule cells from stargazer mice, transfection of gamma-7 but not gamma-5 increases AMPA receptor-mediated currents. Compared with stargazin, gamma-7 differentially modulates AMPA receptor glutamate affinity and kainate efficacy. These studies define gamma-7 as a new member of the TARP family that can differentially influence AMPA receptors in cerebellar neurons.
Heteromeric assembly of KCNQ2 and KCNQ3 subunits underlie the M-current (I(KM)), a slowly activating and noninactivating neuronal K(+) current. Mutations in KCNQ2 and KCNQ3 genes cause benign familial neonatal convulsions (BFNCs), a rare autosomal-dominant epilepsy of the newborn. In the present study, we describe the identification of a novel KCNQ2 heterozygous mutation (c587t) in a BFNC-affected family, leading to an alanine to valine substitution at amino acid position 196 located at the N-terminal end of the voltage-sensing S(4) domain. The consequences on KCNQ2 subunit function prompted by the A196V substitution, as well as by the A196V/L197P mutation previously described in another BFNC-affected family, were investigated by macroscopic and single-channel current measurements in CHO cells transiently transfected with wild-type and mutant subunits. When compared with KCNQ2 channels, homomeric KCNQ2 A196V or A196V/L197P channels showed a 20 mV rightward shift in their activation voltage dependence, with no concomitant change in maximal open probability or single-channel conductance. Furthermore, current activation kinetics of KCNQ2 A196V channels displayed an unusual dependence on the conditioning prepulse voltage, being markedly slower when preceded by prepulses to more depolarized potentials. Heteromeric channels formed by KCNQ2 A196V and KCNQ3 subunits displayed gating changes similar to those of KCNQ2 A196V homomeric channels. Collectively, these results reveal a novel role for noncharged residues in the N-terminal end of S(4) in controlling gating of I(KM) and suggest that gating changes caused by mutations at these residues may decrease I(KM) function, thus causing neuronal hyperexcitability, ultimately leading to neonatal convulsions.
Distinct types of relay neurons in the hindbrain process somatosensory or viscerosensory information. How neurons choose between these two fates is unclear. We show here that the homeobox gene Lbx1 is essential for imposing a somatosensory fate on relay neurons in the hindbrain. In Lbx1 mutant mice, viscerosensory relay neurons are specified at the expense of somatosensory relay neurons. Thus Lbx1 expression distinguishes between the somatosensory or viscerosensory fate of relay neurons.
Frequency modulations are a prominent feature of animal vocalizations and human speech. Here we investigated how neurons in the inferior colliculus (IC) of Mexican free-tailed bats respond to the frequency-modulated (FM) direction and velocity of complex signals by extracting their spectrotemporal receptive fields (STRFs) using a family of upward- and downward-moving ripple stimuli. STRFs were obtained in more than half of the cells that were sampled. To verify the validity of each STRF, we compared their features both with tone-evoked responses and by convolving the STRF with several conspecific calls. We show that responses to tones are in close agreement with the STRF and that the responses predicted by convolutions compare favorably with responses evoked by those calls. The high predictability showed that the STRF captured most of the excitatory and inhibitory properties of IC cells. Most neurons were selective for the direction and velocity of spectral motion with a majority favoring the downward FM direction, and most had spectrum-time inseparability that correlated with their direction selectivity. Furthermore, blocking inhibition significantly reduced the directional selectivity of these neurons, suggesting that inhibition shapes FM direction selectivity in the IC. Finally, we decomposed the natural calls into their ripple components and show that most species-specific calls have downward-sweeping FM components with sweep velocities that correspond with the preferred sweep velocities of IC neurons. This close quantitative correspondence among features of signals and responses suggests that IC cells are tuned by inhibition to respond optimally to spectral motion cues present in their conspecific vocalizations.
Cognitive dysfunction commonly occurs even in the early stages of Parkinson's disease (PD). Impairment on frontostriatally based executive tasks is particularly well described but affects only a proportion of early PD patients. Our previous work suggests that a common functional polymorphism (val(158)met) within the catechol O-methyltransferase (COMT) gene underlies some of this executive heterogeneity. In particular, an increasing number of methionine alleles, resulting in lower enzyme activity, is associated with impaired performance on the &quot;Tower of London&quot; planning task. The main objective of this study was to investigate the underlying neural basis of this genotype-phenotype effect in PD using functional magnetic resonance imaging. We scanned 31 patients with early PD who were homozygous for either valine (val) (n = 16) or methionine (met) (n = 15) at the COMT val(158)met polymorphism during performance of an executive task comprising both Tower of London (planning) and simple subtracting (&quot;control&quot;) problems. A cross-group comparison between genetic subgroups revealed that response times for planning problems were significantly longer in met compared with val homozygotes, whereas response times for control problems did not differ. Furthermore, imaging data revealed a significant reduction in blood oxygen level-dependent signal across the frontoparietal network involved in planning in met/met compared with val/val patients. Hence, we have demonstrated that COMT genotype impacts on executive function in PD through directly influencing frontoparietal activation. Furthermore, the directionality of the genotype-phenotype effect observed in this study, when interpreted in the context of the existing literature, adds weight to the hypothesis that the relationship between prefrontal function and dopamine levels follows as an inverted U-shaped curve.
Basing higher-order decisions on expected value (reward probability x reward magnitude) maximizes an agent's accruement of reward over time. The goal of this study was to determine whether the advanced preparation of simple actions reflected the expected value of the potential outcomes. Human subjects were required to direct a saccadic eye movement to a visual target that was presented either to the left or right of a central fixation point on each trial. Expected value was manipulated by adjusting the probability of presenting each target and their associated magnitude of monetary reward across 15 blocks of trials. We found that saccadic reaction times (SRTs) were negatively correlated to the relative expected value of the targets. Occasionally, an irrelevant visual distractor was presented before the target to probe the spatial allocation of saccadic preparation. Distractor-directed errors (oculomotor captures) varied as a function of the relative expected value of, and the distance of distractors from, the potential valued targets. SRTs and oculomotor captures were better correlated to the relative expected value of actions than to reward probability, reward magnitude, or overall motivation. Together, our results suggest that the level and spatial distribution of competitive dynamic neural fields representing saccadic preparation reflect the relative expected value of the potential actions.

Silver-staining methods are helpful for histological identification of pathological deposits. In spite of some ambiguities regarding their mechanism and interpretation, they are widely used for histopathological diagnosis. In this review, four major silver-staining methods, modified Bielschowsky, Bodian, Gallyas (GAL) and Campbell-Switzer (CS) methods, are outlined with respect to their principles, basic protocols and interpretations, thereby providing neuropathologists, technicians and neuroscientists with a common basis for comparing findings and identifying the issues that still need to be clarified. Some consider &quot;argyrophilia&quot; to be a homogeneous phenomenon irrespective of the lesion and the method. Thus, they seek to explain the differences among the methods by pointing to their different sensitivities in detecting lesions (quantitative difference). Comparative studies, however, have demonstrated that argyrophilia is heterogeneous and dependent not only on the method but also on the lesion (qualitative difference). Each staining method has its own lesion-dependent specificity and, within this specificity, its own sensitivity. This &quot;method- and lesion-dependent&quot; nature of argyrophilia enables operational sorting of disease-specific lesions based on their silver-staining profiles, which may potentially represent some disease-specific aspects. Furthermore, comparisons between immunohistochemical and biochemical data have revealed an empirical correlation between GAL+/CS-deposits and 4-repeat (4R) tau (corticobasal degeneration, progressive supranuclear palsy and argyrophilic grains) and its complementary reversal between GAL-/CS+deposits and 3-repeat (3R) tau (Pick bodies). Deposits containing both 3R and 4R tau (neurofibrillary tangles of Alzheimer type) are GAL+/CS+. Although no molecular explanations, other than these empiric correlations, are currently available, these distinctive features, especially when combined with immunohistochemistry, are useful because silver-staining methods and immunoreactions are complementary to each other.
We have investigated the extent and pattern of immunostaining for the TAR DNA-binding protein, TDP-43, in 37 patients with frontotemporal lobar degeneration with ubiquitin (UBQ) pathology (FTLD-U). We confirm that TDP-43 protein is a component of the UBQ immunoreactive (UBQ-ir) neuronal cytoplasmic inclusions (NCI), neuronal intranuclear inclusions (NII) and neurites of the cerebral cortex and hippocampus in FTLD-U. We further show that the same three histological patterns, previously identified by us according to the form, number and distribution of the UBQ-ir NCI, NII and neurites are equivalently present in TDP-43 immunohistochemistry. TDP-43 immunoreactive (TDP-43-ir) NCI with rounded, spicular or skein-type appearance were seen in motor neurones of the trigeminal or facial cranial nerve nuclei in one patient with frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and in the spinal cord in three patients with FTD + motor neurone disease (MND). In patients with MND alone, TDP-43-ir NCI are common in anterior horn cells of the spinal cord, and occasionally seen in neurones of the hypoglossus nucleus. We show that TDP-43-ir NCI are also present within neurones in the superior and inferior olives in FTLD-U, and in some patients with MND. Although TDP-43 is normally seen as a nuclear protein, nuclear TDP-ir was not observed in neurones of the cerebral cortex, brainstem and spinal cord in FTLD-U or MND when NCI were present. We conclude that the UBQ-ir lesions of FTLD and MND are defined by the presence of TDP-43, and that these disorders can be subsumed into a single disease entity under the umbrella of TDP-43 proteinopathy.
Leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) mutation carriers can develop clinical symptoms other than typical parkinsonism such as dementia, amyotrophy or dystonia. To determine if LRRK2 mutations might be involved in frontotemporal dementia (FTD), 5 individuals with multiplex familial FTD kindreds and 41 pathologically confirmed cases of FTD, including 23 with a family history of dementia, were screened for genetic variations in the LRRK2 gene. We identified a LRRK2 mutation leading to the G2019S amino acid substitution in a 79-year-old woman with frontotemporal lobar degeneration with ubiquitinated neuronal intranuclear inclusions (FTLD-U/NII) and a possible family history of tremor. These findings may be coincidental; however, there is a small nucleus of LRRK2-positive patients displaying atypical features suggesting a role for this protein in other neurodegenerative disorders.
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) mediate cellular responses to diverse extracellular stimuli to play a vital role in the control of physiology and behaviour. GPCR trafficking is of fundamental importance for the regulation of GPCRs signaling. In this mini review, we will discuss some of the recent findings on the mechanisms that regulate GPCR trafficking, which include (i) large dense-core vesicle (LDCV)-associated GPCR delivery which could be a general cell biological mechanism for rapid modulation of membrane receptors in response to certain stimuli; (ii) lateral diffusion of GPCRs in the plasma membrane for rapid change of the number of neurotransmitter receptors during synaptic plasticity and (iii) constitutive internalization of GPCRs, that contributes to receptor resensitization and distribution, including axonal polarization.
The purpose of this article was to review recent progress in mining the gene repertoire and expressed sequence tags (ESTs) for the super-family of G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) in the form of a proceeding from the Nordic GPCR meeting held at the Nobel Forum, Karolinska Institute in August 2006. We update and give an overview of the expansion of the main families of GPCRs; Glutamate, Rhodopsin, Adhesion, Frizzled and Secretin (GRAFS) in perspective of fully sequenced genomes. We look into the most recent findings including the work that has been carried out on the spotted green puffer fish (Tetraodon nigroviridis), mouse (Mus musculus), chicken (Gallus gallus), slime mold (Dictyostelium discoideum) and the plant pathogenic fungus Magnaporthe grisea. We use examples from our recent work on chicken GPCRs to highlight the importance of detailed assembly and curation of sequences and how that can affect percentage similarity and phylogeny. ESTs can give valuable information about expression patterns. GPCRs have comparatively low numbers of EST suggesting that GPCRs are in generally expressed in lower amount than other genes. We discuss similarities in the evolution of the trace amine associated receptors with other sensory receptors.


An event-related potentials (ERP) study was undertaken to examine the role of prefrontal and parietal association cortices on selective attention and short-term memory functions in a duration discrimination task. Subjects performed better when discriminating the first stimulus relative to the second and not the reverse. Two contingent negative variations (CNV) were obtained for each stimulus duration at prefrontal regions, as well as two P300s at parietal regions. The CNV(S1) component recorded during the first stimulus (S1) appeared to be involved in selective attention at bilateral sites, while the P300(S1) component in the left hemisphere may be implicated in retaining it. The CNV(S2) wave, displayed during the second stimulus (S2), at bilateral sites and the right-sided P300(S2) wave seem to be implicated in working memory. The results indicate that recorded activity at prefrontal and parietal association cortices is tightly linked to task parameters and behavioral performances.
A decrease in controlled processes has been proposed to be responsible for age-related episodic memory decline. We used the Process Dissociation Procedure, a method that attempts to estimate the contribution of controlled and automatic processes to cognitive performance, and entered both estimates in regression analyses. Results indicate that only controlled processes explained a great part of the age-related variance in a word recall task, especially when little environmental support was offered.
Using two independent samples and two different measures of perfectionism, this study investigated the hypothesized relation between retrospective accounts of perceived peer-inflicted emotional abuse during childhood and perfectionism in adulthood. Emotional victimization ('indirect' aggression) is characterized by behavior in which mental harm is inflicted on victims through exclusionary acts, gossiping, and rumor spreading. Study one: Self-reported questionnaires of indirect victimization [DIAS; Bjorkqvist, Lagerspetz, and Osterman, 1992] and perfectionism [multidimensional perfectionism scale; Hewitt and Flett, 1991] were administered to 162 (mean age=20.14 years) female undergraduate psychology students. Results support the predicted positive relationship between recalled indirect peer victimization and current socially prescribed/self-oriented perfectionism. Study two: self-reports of indirect peer victimization and perfectionism (eating disorder inventory-perfectionism) were collected from 196 (mean age=19.5 years) female undergraduate students. Again, recalled indirect peer victimization was a statistically significant predictor of current socially prescribed/self-oriented perfectionism whereas recalled direct (physical, verbal) peer victimization held no relation. Discussion addresses the implications of these results, which hold importance for both the bullying and perfectionism literatures.


Cerebellar granule neurons (CGNs) receive inhibitory input from Golgi cells in the form of phasic and tonic currents that are mediated by postsynaptic and extrasynaptic gamma-aminobutyric acid type A (GABAA) receptors, respectively. Extrasynaptic receptors are thought to contain alpha6betaxdelta subunits. Here, we review studies on ethanol (EtOH) modulation of these receptors, which have yielded contradictory results. Although studies with recombinant receptors expressed in Xenopus oocytes indicate that alpha6beta3delta receptors are potently enhanced by acute exposure to low (&gt;or=3 mM) EtOH concentrations, this effect was not observed when these receptors were expressed in Chinese hamster ovary cells. Slice recordings of CGNs have consistently shown that EtOH increases the frequency of phasic spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents (sIPSCs), as well as the tonic current amplitude and noise. However, there is a lack of consensus as to whether EtOH directly acts on extrasynaptic receptors or modulates them indirectly; that is, via an increase in spillover of synaptically released GABA. It was recently demonstrated that an R to Q mutation of amino acid 100 of the alpha6 subunit increases the effect of EtOH on both sIPSCs and tonic current. These electrophysiological findings have not been reproducible in our hands. Moreover, it was shown the alpha6-R100Q mutation enhances sensitivity to the motor-impairing effects of EtOH in outbred Sprague-Dawley rats, but this was not observed in a line of rats selectively bred for high sensitivity to EtOH-induced motor alterations (Alcohol Non-Tolerant rats). We conclude that currently there is insufficient evidence conclusively supporting a direct potentiation of extrasynaptic GABAA receptors following acute EtOH exposure in CGNs.


This article attempts to conceptualize the issues, problems, research, and policy solutions that have arisen in Scotland as a result of co-morbid substance misuse and mental health problems in treatment- and non-treatment-seeking populations. This approach also acknowledges the differences and similarities present when comparing the Scottish and national UK responses to co-morbidity. Finally, information and recommendations from a Scotland-wide qualitative research program on co-morbidity will help relate the Scottish picture with the international scene in trying to identify the best ways of tackling this complex situation.








Glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK-3) is a major kinase implicated in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD), and reducing its activity may have therapeutic efficacy. Two variants exist, referred to as GSK-3 alpha and GSK-3beta. In addition to the latter's well-described role in the phosphorylation of tau, reports also suggest that GSK-3 alpha may regulate amyloid precursor protein processing and Abeta formation. The activities of both GSK-3 alpha and GSK-3beta are reduced by lithium, a well-tolerated drug used in humans to combat bipolar disorder. Here, we investigate the therapeutic efficacy of chronic lithium administration in aged 3xTg-AD mice that harbor both plaques and tangles. We found that lithium reduced tau phosphorylation but did not significantly alter the A beta load. Despite the reduction in phosphotau, lithium treatment did not improve deficits in working memory. Although other studies have investigated the effects of lithium on tau biochemistry, this study represents the first to address comprehensively its therapeutic potential on other critical aspects of AD including its effect on A beta and learning and memory. It remains to be determined from human clinical trials whether lithium treatment alone will improve the clinical outcome in AD patients. These results, however, suggest that the most efficacious treatment will be combining lithium with other anti-A beta interventions.
Preeclampsia is a potentially fatal complication of human pregnancy characterized by hypertension, proteinuria, and edema. Placental oxidative stress is a key element in the pathogenesis of the syndrome and results in the release of a cocktail of factors, including proinflammatory cytokines and apoptotic debris, that in turn cause activation of the maternal endothelium. The intermediary molecular mechanisms underlying this release are unknown, but they represent a potential target for therapeutic interventions. We examined activation of signaling pathways during hypoxia-reoxygenation of villous explants in vitro. Hypoxia-reoxygenation activated the p38 and stress-activated protein kinase mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and the nuclear factor-kappaB pathways. Downstream consequences included increased tissue concentrations and secretion of tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-1 beta, increased expression of cyclooxygenase-2, and increased apoptosis. Administration of vitamins C and E to explants blocked activation of the p38 and stress-activated protein kinase MAPK and nuclear factor-kappaB pathways. Vitamin administration or p38 pathway inhibition also reduced cyclooxygenase-2 expression, tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-1 beta secretion, and the levels of apoptosis. We conclude that oxidative stress is a potent inducer of placental synthesis and release of proinflammatory factors. Most of these effects are mediated through the p38 MAPK and nuclear factor-kappaB pathways and can be effectively blocked by vitamins C and E in vitro.

The incretin glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1), which is used to treat diabetes mellitus, delays gastric emptying by inhibiting vagal activity. GLP-1 also increases fasting and postprandial gastric volume in humans. On the basis of animal studies, we hypothesized that nitric oxide mediates the effects of GLP-1 on gastric volumes. To assess the effects of nitrergic blockade on GLP-1-induced gastric accommodation in humans, in this double-blind study, 31 healthy volunteers were randomized to placebo (i.e., saline), GLP-1, or the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor N(G)-monomethyl-L-arginine acetate (L-NMMA; 4 mg.kg(-1) x h(-1)) alone or with GLP-1. Thereafter, 16 additional subjects were randomized to GLP-1 alone or together with a higher dose of L-NMMA (10 mg/kg bolus plus 8 mg.kg(-1).h(-1) infusion). Gastric volumes (fasting pre- and postdrug, postprandial postdrug) were measured by (99m)Tc-single-photon-emission computed tomography imaging. GLP-1 increased (P = 0.04) fasting gastric volume by 83 +/- 16 ml (vs. 17 +/- 11 ml for placebo) and augmented (P &lt; or = 0.01) postprandial accommodation by 688 +/- 165 ml (vs. 542 +/- 29 ml for placebo). L-NMMA (low dose) alone did not affect fasting or postprandial gastric volume. L-NMMA (low dose) did not attenuate the effect of GLP-1 on gastric volumes. In contrast, L-NMMA (high dose) did not affect fasting volume but blunted GLP-1-mediated postprandial accommodation (postprandial change = 494 +/- 37 ml, P &lt; or = 0.01 vs. GLP-1 alone). These data are consistent with the hypothesis that nitric oxide partly mediates the effects of GLP-1 on postprandial but not fasting gastric volumes in humans.
In rats selectively bred to develop diet-induced obesity (DIO) or to be diet-resistant (DR), DIO maternal obesity selectively enhances the development of obesity and insulin resistance in their adult offspring. We postulated that the interaction between genetic predisposition and factors in the maternal environment alter the development of hypothalamic peptide systems involved in energy homeostasis regulation. Maternal obesity in the current studies led to increased body and fat pad weights and higher leptin and insulin levels in postnatal day 16 offspring of both DIO and DR dams. However, by 6 wk of age, most of these intergroup differences disappeared and offspring of obese DIO dams had unexpected increases in arcuate nucleus leptin receptor mRNA, peripheral insulin sensitivity, diet- and leptin-induced brown adipose temperature increase and 24-h anorectic response compared with offspring of lean DIO, but not lean DR dams. On the other hand, while offspring of obese DIO dams did have the highest ventromedial nucleus melanocortin-4 receptor expression, their anorectic and brown adipose thermogenic responses to the melanocortin agonist, Melanotan II (MTII), did not differ from those of offspring of lean DR or DIO dams. Thus, during their rapid growth phase, juvenile offspring of obese DIO dams have alterations in their hypothalamic systems regulating energy homeostasis, which ameliorates their genetic and perinatally determined predisposition toward leptin resistance. Because they later go onto become more obese, it is possible that interventions during this time period might prevent the subsequent development of obesity.
The median preoptic nucleus (MnPO) in the lamina terminalis receives a prominent catecholaminergic innervation from the dorsomedial and ventrolateral medulla. The present investigation used whole cell patch-clamp recordings in rat brain slice preparations to evaluate the hypothesis that presynaptic adrenoceptors could modulate GABAergic inputs to MnPO neurons. Bath applications of norepinephrine (NE; 20-50 microM) induced a prolonged and reversible suppression of inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) and reduced paired-pulse depression evoked by stimulation in the subfornical organ and organum vasculosum lamina terminalis. These events were not correlated with any observed changes in membrane conductance arising from NE activity at postsynaptic alpha(1)- or alpha(2)-adrenoceptors. Consistent with a role for presynaptic alpha(2)-adrenoceptors, responses were selectively mimicked by an alpha(2)-adrenoceptor agonist (UK-14304) and blockable with an alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antagonist (idazoxan). Although the alpha(1)-adrenoceptor agonist cirazoline and the alpha(1)-adrenoceptor antagonist prazosin were without effect on these evoked IPSCs, NE was noted to increase (via alpha(1)-adrenoceptors) or decrease (via alpha(2)-adrenoceptors) the frequency of spontaneous and tetrodotoxin-resistant miniature IPSCs. Collectively, these observations imply that both presynaptic and postsynaptic alpha(1)- and alpha(2)-adrenoceptors in MnPO are capable of selective modulation of rapid GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibitory synaptic transmission along the lamina terminalis and therefore likely to exert a prominent influence in regulating cell excitability within the MnPO.
Glucose is required for brain energy metabolism. Decerebration, aqueduct occlusion, and cannula mapping studies have established that glucose-sensing cells capable of eliciting feeding and adrenal medullary responses to glucoprivation are localized in the hindbrain. Glucoprivation also evokes corticosterone and glucagon secretion, but the location of receptors mediating these responses is unknown. To determine whether glucoreceptive sites controlling these responses are present in the hindbrain, we administered the antiglycolytic agent, 5-d-thioglucose (5TG, 24 microg in 200 nl) into brain stem sites through implanted cannulas and examined plasma concentrations of corticosterone and glucagon. Both hindbrain and hypothalamic sites were tested. Blood was collected remotely from intra-atrial catheters at 0, 30, 60, 90, 120, 180, and 240 min after 5TG or control injection. Caudal hindbrain 5TG injections potently increased circulating corticosterone and glucagon concentrations. For corticosterone, the mean peak response (maximum concentration minus time 0 concentration) elicited at positive sites (23 of 40 sites) was 391 ng/ml (SE = 16). For glucagon, the mean peak response at positive sites (27 of 40 sites) was 46 pg/ml (SE = 6). Glucoprivically evoked glucagon secretion was abolished by the ganglionic blocker, hexamethonium, but not by adrenal denervation. Six of twenty-five hypothalamic sites were positive for corticosterone secretion, yielding plasma levels of 279 +/- 23 ng/ml, but none of the hypothalamic injection sites elevated glucagon concentrations. Results demonstrate that receptor cells responsive to glucose deficit and capable of increasing corticosterone and glucagon concentrations exist within the hindbrain, thus further delineating central glucoregulatory neural circuitry.
The present studies investigated the influence of presystemic signals on the control of thirst, salt appetite, and vasopressin (VP) secretion in rats during nonhypotensive hypovolemia. Rats were injected with 30% polyethylene glycol (PEG) solution, deprived of food and water overnight, and then allowed to drink water, 0.15 M NaCl, or 0.30 M NaCl. The PEG treatment, which produced 30-40% plasma volume deficits, elicited rapid intakes in an initial bout of drinking, but rats consumed much more 0.15 M NaCl than water or 0.30 M NaCl. In considering why drinking stopped sooner when water or concentrated saline was ingested, it seemed relevant that little or no change in systemic plasma Na(+) concentration was observed during the initial bouts and that the partial repair of hypovolemia was comparable, regardless of which fluid was consumed. In rats that drank 0.15 M NaCl, gastric emptying was fastest and the combined volume of ingested fluid in the stomach and small intestine was largest. These and other observations are consistent with the hypothesis that fluid ingestion by hypovolemic rats is inhibited by distension of the stomach and proximal small intestine and that movement of dilute or concentrated fluid into the small intestine provides another presystemic signal that inhibits thirst or salt appetite, respectively. On the other hand, an early effect of water or saline consumption on VP secretion in PEG-treated rats was not observed, in contrast to recent findings in dehydrated rats. Thus the controls of fluid ingestion and VP secretion are similar but not identical during hypovolemia.

Today, diagnosis and treatment of chest pain related to pathologic changes in the visceral pleura are often difficult. Data in the literature on the sensory innervation of the visceral pleura are sparse. The present study aimed at identifying sensory end-organs in the visceral pleura, and at obtaining more information about neurochemical coding. The immunocytochemcial data are mainly based on whole mounts of the visceral pleura of control and vagally denervated rats. It was shown that innervation of the rat visceral pleura is characterized by nerve bundles that enter in the hilus region and gradually split into slender bundles with a few nerve fibers. Separate nerve fibers regularly give rise to characteristic laminar terminals. Because of their unique association with the elastic fibers of the visceral pleura, we decided to refer to them as &quot;visceral pleura receptors&quot; (VPRs). Cryostat sections of rat lungs confirmed a predominant location on mediastinal and interlobar lung surfaces. VPRs can specifically be visualized by protein gene product 9.5 immunostaining, and were shown to express vesicular glutamate transporters, calbindin D28K, Na+/K+-ATPase, and P2X3 ATP-receptors. The sensory nerve fibers giving rise to VPRs appeared to be myelinated and to have a spinal origin. Because several of the investigated proteins have been reported as markers for sensory terminals in other organs, the present study revealed that VPRs display the neurochemical characteristics of mechanosensory and/or nociceptive terminals. The development of a live staining method, using AM1-43, showed that VPRs can be visualized in living tissue, offering an interesting model for future physiologic studies.
Stroke is a major public health problem in the United States and the development of novel therapeutic strategies is an important research priority. Advances in this field are proceeding on several fronts, including the use of next-generation plasminogen activators and glycoprotein IIb/ IIIa inhibitors, refined patient selection with advanced magnetic resonance imaging sequences, endovascular approaches to thrombolysis and thrombectomy, and adjuvant use of ultrasound. There remains no proven therapy for intracerebral hemorrhage, but early results with recombinant activated factor VII look very promising. It is hoped that in the near future, physicians managing patients with acute neurological events will have a robust armamentarium of therapies to bring to bear on both ischemic and hemorrhagic vascular disease.

Eimer's organ is a small, densely innervated sensory structure found on the glabrous rhinarium of most talpid moles. This structure consists of an epidermal papilla containing a central circular column of cells associated with intraepidermal free nerve endings, Merkel cell neurite complexes, and lamellated corpuscles. The free nerve endings within the central cell column form a ring invested in the margins of the column, surrounding 1-2 fibers that pass through the center of the column. A group of small-diameter nociceptive free nerve endings that are immunoreactive for substance P surrounds this central ring of larger-diameter free nerve endings. Transmission electron microscopy revealed a high concentration of tonofibrils in the epidermal cells of the central column, suggesting they are more rigid than the surrounding keratinocytes and may play a mechanical role in transducing stimuli to the different receptor terminals. The intraepidermal free nerve endings within the central column begin to degrade 15 microm from the base of the stratum corneum and do not appear to be active within the keratinized outer layer. The peripheral free nerve endings are structurally distinct from their counterparts in the central column and immunocytochemical double labeling with myelin basic protein and substance P indicates these afferents are unmyelinated. Merkel cell-neurite complexes and lamellated corpuscles are similar in morphology to those found in a range of other mammalian skin.
Treating patients with gliomas requires a multidisciplinary approach, which often includes surgery, radiation and chemotherapy. Recent developments have demonstrated the efficacy of chemotherapeutic agents in patients with newly diagnosed or recurrent gliomas. Large clinical studies have provided important information on the impact of chemotherapy for anaplastic oligodendrogliomas in the upfront setting. Randomised trials have demonstrated the benefit of chemoradiation for patients with glioblastoma. Investigations are also under way to clarify the role of chemotherapy for low-grade gliomas. This review article summarises the recent developments and approaches in the use of chemotherapy to treat adult patients with astrocytomas and oligodendrogliomas.

Not all cancer cells are born equal. While the great majority of the cells that make up tumours are destined to differentiate, albeit aberrantly, and eventually stop dividing, a handful of cancer cells appear to possess limitless replicative potential. This review presents compelling evidence to suggest that the bulk of malignant cells of most cancers are generated by a rare fraction of stem cell-like cancer cells. These cells, dubbed cancer stem cells, are phenotypically similar to the normal stem cells of the corresponding tissue of origin, but they exhibit dysfunctional patterns of self-renewal and differentiation. Cancer stem cells that are capable of recapitulating brain tumours as xenografts in mice are characterised by defined stem cell markers. These brain tumour stem cells demonstrate enhanced chemoresistance and radioresistance mechanisms compared to non-stem cells in the heterogeneous tumour, which suggest that they may be the likely candidates for tumour progression and recurrence. Indeed, recent work has shown that such aberrant signalling pathways may be targeted in novel anti-cancer therapeutic strategies. The stem cell concept of tumour progression prompts immediate attention to a new paradigm in cancer research with a focus on this minority subset of cells, and the design of novel therapeutic strategies to target these cells that are insignificant within the population of tumour cells, but that are in fact the relevant cells to be destroyed.



If addictions and problematic behaviors arise from interactions between drugs, reward sequences, and natural learning sytems, then an explanation of clinically problematic conditions (such as the self-administration of drugs or problem gambling) requires an understanding of the neural systems that have evolved to allow an agent to make decisions. We hypothesize a unified decision-making system consisting of three components-a situation recognition system, a flexible, planning-capable system, and an inflexible, habit-like system. In this article, we present a model of the planning-capable system based on a planning process arising from experimentally observed look-ahead dynamics in the hippocampus enabling a forward search of possibilities and an evaluation process in the nucleus accumbens. Based on evidence that opioid signaling can provide hedonic evalutation of an achieved outcome, we hypothesize that similar opioid-signaling processes evaluate the value of expected outcomes. This leads to a model of craving, based on the recognition of a path to a high-value outcome, and obsession, based on a value-induced limitation of the search process. This theory can explain why opioid antagonists reduce both hedonic responses and craving.
Reentrant corticobasal ganglia circuits are important for voluntary action and for action selection. In vivo and ex vivo studies show that these circuits can exhibit a plethora of short- and long-lasting plastic changes. Convergent evidence at the molecular, cellular, and circuit levels indicates that corticostriatal circuits are involved in the acquisition and automatization of novel actions. There is strong evidence that activity in corticostriatal circuits changes during the learning of novel actions, but the plastic changes observed during the early stages of learning a novel action are different than those observed after extensive training. A variety of studies indicate that the neural mechanisms and the corticostriatal subcircuits involved in the initial acquisition of actions and skills differ from those involved in their automatization or in the formation of habits. Dopamine, a critical modulator of short- and long-term plasticity in corticostriatal circuits, is differentially involved in early and late stages of action learning. Changes in dopaminergic transmission have several concomitant effects in corticostriatal function, which may be important for action selection and action learning. These diverse effects may subserve different roles for dopamine in reinforcement and action learning.
The role of dopamine in decision making has received much attention from both the experimental and computational communities. However, because reinforcement learning models concentrate on discrete action selection and on phasic dopamine signals, they are silent as to how animals decide upon the rate of their actions, and they fail to account for the prominent effects of dopamine on response rates. We suggest an extension to reinforcement learning models in which response rates are optimally determined by balancing the tradeoff between the cost of fast responding and the benefit of rapid reward acquisition. The resulting behavior conforms well with numerous characteristics of free-operant responding. More importantly, this framework highlights a role for a tonic signal corresponding to the net rate of rewards, in determining the optimal rate of responding. We hypothesize that this critical quantity is conveyed by tonic levels of dopamine, explaining why dopaminergic manipulations exert a global affect on response rates. We further suggest that the effects of motivation on instrumental rates of responding are mediated through its influence on the net reward rate, implying a tight coupling between motivational states and tonic dopamine. The relationships between phasic and tonic dopamine signaling, and between directing and energizing effects of motivation, as well as the implications for motivational control of habitual and goal-directed instrumental action selection, are discussed.
The nature of the reward representation in Pavlovian conditioning has been of perennial interest to students of associative learning theory. We consider the view that it consists of a range of different attributes, each of which may be governed by different learning rules. We investigated this issue through a series of experiments using a time-sensitive Pavlovian-to-instrumental transfer procedure, aiming to dissociate learning about temporal and specific sensory features of a reward. Our results successfully demonstrated that learning about these different features appears to be dissociable, with learning about the specific sensory features of a Pavlovian unconditioned stimulus (US) occurring very rapidly across a wide range of experimental procedures, while learning about the temporal features of the US occurred slightly less quickly and was more sensitive to parametric disruption. These results are discussed with regard to the potential independence or interdependence of the relevant learning processes, and to some recent neurophysiological recording and brain lesion work, which provide additional means to investigate these dissociations.

More than half of the initially-formed neurons are deleted in certain brain regions during normal development. This process, whereby cells are discretely removed without interfering with the further development of remaining cells, is called programmed cell death (PCD). The term apoptosis is used to describe certain morphological manifestations of PCD. Many of the effectors of this developmental cell death program are highly expressed in the developing brain, making it more susceptible to accidental activation of the death machinery, e.g. following hypoxia-ischemia or irradiation. Recent evidence suggests, however, that activation and regulation of cell death mechanisms under pathological conditions do not exactly mirror physiological, developmentally regulated PCD. It may be argued that the conditions after e.g. ischemia are not even compatible with the execution of PCD as we know it. Under pathological conditions cells are exposed to various stressors, including energy failure, oxidative stress and unbalanced ion fluxes. This results in parallel triggering and potential overshooting of several different cell death pathways, which then interact with one another and result in complex patterns of biochemical manifestations and cellular morphological features. These types of cell death are here called &quot;pathological apoptosis,&quot; where classical hallmarks of PCD, like pyknosis, nuclear condensation and caspase-3 activation, are combined with non-PCD features of cell death. Here we review our current knowledge of the mechanisms involved, with special focus on the potential for therapeutic intervention tailored to the needs of the developing brain.
Current research on the mitochondrial permeability transition pore (PTP) and its role in cell death faces a paradox. Initially considered as an in vitro artifact of little pathophysiological relevance, in recent years the PTP has received considerable attention as a potential mechanism for the execution of cell death. The recent successful use of PTP desensitizers in several disease paradigms leaves little doubt about its relevance in pathophysiology; and emerging findings that link the PTP to key cellular signalling pathways are increasing the interest on the pore as a pharmacological target. Yet, recent genetic data have challenged popular views on the molecular nature of the PTP, and called into question many early conclusions about its structure. Here we review basic concepts about PTP structure, function and regulation within the framework of intracellular death signalling, and its role in disease pathogenesis.
Cognitive and emotional correlates of toxic mold exposure and potential dose-response effects for both outcomes were investigated. Self-reported length of exposure, time since last exposure, and serum immunoglobulin (IgG) levels were assessed. Despite CNS complaints often seen with mold exposed individuals, overall results did not uncover concomitant cognitive deficits suggested in previous studies or a significant reduction in intellectual functioning. Fewer subjects were excluded as result of failing effort/motivation assessment than expected. Correlations of IgG and cognitive function are discussed. A dose-effect for self-reported length of exposure and cognitive outcome was not seen. The sample's overall Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory II (MMPI-2) profile indicated elevations on scales 1, 2, 3, 7 and 8. MMPI-2 clinical scales 1 and 3 were significantly correlated with length of exposure. The MMPI-2 may be sensitive to increasing physical and emotional sequelae as length of exposure increases. A potential subgroup of cognitively impaired outliers within mold exposure litigants is explored. Limitations of self-reported and objective measurements for mold exposure and exploratory statistical methodology are discussed.
This study aimed to explore the executive function of healthy elderly Chinese people. A sample of 58 healthy Chinese aged 60 and over was recruited from Guangzhou in China. They were divided into two age groups, a younger age group (aged 60-70) and an older age group (aged over 70). Executive function was measured by a battery of seven tests which were assumed to capture specific components of executive function. The tests were initiation (Hayling Sentence Completion Test (HSC)), sustained attention (Monotone Counting Test), switching and flexibility (word fluency and modified Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST)), disinhibition (Modified Six Element Task (SET), Stroop Test, and HSC), attention allocation and planning (SET and modified version of WCST), and updating (Chinese Letter-Number Span). When independent neurocognitive tests were analyzed, there were significant age differences in the WCST (perseverative errors and category completed, p=0.025, 0.023) and the SET (raw score, p=0.050). The older age group tended to do worse in the total profile score of the SET and correct responses of the HSC Part A. However, when these tests were grouped into specific executive function components, a significant difference was found between the two groups in attention allocation and planning (p=0.007) and total component score (p=0.026). Regression analyses also indicated that age accounted for only very little variance of executive function in this narrow band of the elderly, whereas educational level accounted for a large part of the variance in initiation (R(2)=0.252, p&lt;0.001), switching and flexibility (R(2)=0.211, p&lt;0.001), and updating (R(2)=0.236, p&lt;0.001) components of executive function. Our findings suggest that a significant decline in general executive functioning with advancing age was only evident in some putative tests in this sample. In addition, executive functions were selectively affected by older age, with attention location and planning and initiation being the components that were most affected.
A hundred years ago Camillo Golgi and Santiago Ramn y Cajal were awarded the Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine for their investigations on the structure of the nervous system. The work of Cajal is universally acknowledged, whereas Golgi's contribution is less well known. This article reviews the main achievements of Golgi in that field. In addition to Golgi's most important results, the errors he made in interpreting his own findings are examined. These errors contributed notably to a widespread neglect and underestimation of his important contributions to our understanding of the structure of the nervous system.

December 2006 marked 100 years since the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine was awarded jointly to 2 pioneers in the cellular anatomy of the central nervous system (CNS), Camillo Golgi and Santiago Ramon y Cajal. Golgi developed the silver impregnation method for studying nerve cells, a technique that clearly showed entire cells with their arborizing dendrites and axons for the first time. Ramon y Cajal seized on the method for a series of groundbreaking studies that provided convincing support for what came to be known as the neuron theory, in opposition to the reigning model of the time, the reticular theory. The retina was one of Ramon y Cajal's favorite tissues for study. Although he was perplexed by the horizontal and amacrine cells, he was remarkably prescient in his analysis of retinal and CNS cellular anatomy. Few scientists have cast such a long shadow in their field, but Ramon y Cajal did not establish the neuron theory single-handedly, and the real tale is much more complicated.

Studies on salivary secretion are usually focused on parotid and submandibular glands. However, the film of mucin, that protects the oral structures and is responsible for the feeling of oral comfort, is produced by the submucosal glands. The submucosal zygomatic and molar glands are particularly large in carnivores such as the ferret. Comparisons between the mucous sublingual, zygomatic and molar glands, serous parotid and sero-mucous submandibular glands showed the acetylcholine synthesis, in terms of concentration, to be three to four times higher in the mucous glands than in the parotid and submandibular glands. Bromoacetylcholine inhibited 95-99% of the synthesis of acetylcholine in the incubates of the five types of glands, showing the acetylcholine synthesis to depend on the activity of choline acetyltransferase. The high acetylcholine synthesis in the zygomatic gland was of nervous origin, since cutting the buccal nerve, aiming at parasympathetic denervation, and allowing time for nerve degeneration, reduced the acetylcholine synthesising capacity of the gland by 95%. A similar reduction (96%) in the parotid gland followed upon the avulsion of the parasympathetic auriculo-temporal nerve. Zygomatic saliva was very viscous. The salivary flow rate in response to electrical stimulation (20 Hz) of the buccal nerve (zygomatic gland), expressed per gland weight, was one-third of that to stimulation of the auriculo-temporal nerve (parotid gland) or the chorda-lingual nerve (submandibular gland). As previously shown for the parotid and submandibular gland, a certain fraction (25%) of the parasympathetic secretory response of the zygomatic gland depended on non-adrenergic, non-cholinergic transmission mechanisms, probably involving substance P and vasoactive intestinal peptide and possibly calcitonin gene-related peptide. Particularly, high concentrations of vasoactive intestinal peptide were found in the sublingual and molar glands, and of substance P in the submandibular, zygomatic and molar glands; notably, the concentration of calcitonin gene-related peptide of the sublingual gland was not detectable. All five muscarinic receptor subtypes were detected in the five glands. The receptor protein profile, as judged by immunoblotting and semi-quantitative estimations, was about the same in the glands: high level of M3, low level of M2 and levels roughly in the same range of M1, M4 and M5. Compared to the parotid and submandibular glands, the M5 receptor level was particularly low in the mucin-secreting glands. The present study points out both similarities and dissimilarities between the five types of glands investigated. The zygomatic gland, in particular, appears to be a suitable model for future studies aiming at causing relief of dry mouth by local pharmacological treatment.
There is, without question, an interest within the military services to understand, account for, and adapt to the cognitive state of the individual warfighter. As the field of neuroscience has matured through investments from numerous government agencies, we are on the cusp of being able to move confidently from the lab into the field--and deepen our understanding of the cognitive issues embedded in the warfighting environment. However, as we edge closer to this integration--it is critical for researchers in this arena to understand the landscape they are entering-reflected not only in the challenges of each task or operational environment but also in the individual differences intrinsic to each warfighter. The research papers in this section cover this spectrum, including individual differences and their prediction of adaptability to high-stress environments, the influence of sleep-deprivation on neurophysiological measures of stimulus categorization, neurophysiological measures of stress in the training environment and, finally, real-time neural measures of task engagement, mental workload and vigilance. It is clear from this research, and other work detailed in this supplement, that the judicious use of neuroscience, cognitive psychology, and physiology in the applied environment is desirable for both researchers and operators. In fact, we suggest that these investigations merit a field designation unto their own: Operational Neuroscience. It is our hope that the discussion of this new field of study will galvanize others to increase the confidence and utility of this research through their own investigations.
An increasing debate exists about the potential of early exposure to methylphenidate to increase the risk for drug abuse. In addition, little is known about the neurobiological effects of early exposure to methylphenidate. This study was designed to investigate whether chronic treatment with methylphenidate induces behavioral sensitization to subsequent methylphenidate and D-amphetamine challenge in adolescent Wistar rats. Young Wistar rats (P25) were treated with either methylphenidate (1, 2, or 10 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) or saline for 28 days. After 14 days of washout, animals were challenged with methylphenidate 2.5 mg/kg intraperitoneally or D-amphetamine 2 mg/kg intraperitoneally (P67). Locomotor behavior was assessed using the open field test. Rats chronically treated with methylphenidate in the adolescent period showed augmented locomotor sensitization to D-amphetamine but not to methylphenidate in the adult phase. These findings suggest that early exposure do methylphenidate might increase the risk for subsequent D-amphetamine abuse. Further studies focusing on the neurobiological effects of early exposure to methylphenidate are warranted.
In this article, we present normative data for 2,423 Chinese single-character words. For each word, we report values for the following 15 variables: word frequency, cumulative frequency, homophone density, phonological frequency, age of learning, age of acquisition, number of word formations, number of meanings, number of components, number of strokes, familiarity, concreteness, imageability, regularity, and initial phoneme. To validate the norms, we collected word-naming latencies. Factor analysis and multiple regression analysis show that naming latencies of Chinese single-character words are predicted by frequency, semantics, visual features, and consistency, but not by phonology. These analyses show distinct patterns in word naming between Chinese and alphabetic languages and demonstrate the utility of normative data in the study of nonalphabetic orthographic processing.
In the present work, we used a novel albumin-associated lipoplex formulation, containing the cationic lipid 1-palmitoyl-2-oleoyl-sn-glycero-3-ethylphosphocholine (EPOPC) and cholesterol (Chol), to evaluate the antitumoral efficacy of two gene therapy strategies: immuno-gene therapy, mediated by IL-12 gene expression, and &quot;suicide&quot; gene therapy, mediated by HSV-tk gene expression followed by ganciclovir (GCV) treatment. Our data show that, in an animal model bearing a subcutaneous TSA (mouse mammary adenocarcinoma) tumor, intratumoral administration of the albumin-associated complexes containing the plasmid encoding IL-12 results in a strong antitumoral effect, as demonstrated by the smaller tumor size, the higher T-lymphocyte tumor infiltration and the more extensive tumor necrotic and hemorrhagic areas, as compared to that observed in animals treated with control complexes. On the other hand, the application of the &quot;suicide&quot; gene therapy strategy results in a significant antitumoral activity, which is similar to that achieved with the immuno-gene therapy strategy, although involving different antineoplastic mechanisms. For the tested model, albumin-associated complexes were shown to efficiently mediate intratumoral delivery of therapeutic genes, thus leading to a significant antitumoral effect. This finding is particularly relevant since TSA tumors are characterized for being poorly immunogenic, aggressive and exhibiting high proliferation capacity.
The possible effects of continuous wave (CW) and pulse modulated (PM) electromagnetic field (EMF) on human cognition was studied in 36 healthy male subjects. They performed cognitive tasks while exposed to CW, PM, and sham EMF. The subjects performed the same tasks twice during each session; once with left-sided and once with right-sided exposure. The EMF conditions were spread across three testing sessions, each session separated by 1 week. The exposed hemisphere, EMF condition, and test order were counterbalanced over all subjects. We employed a double-blind design: both the subject and the experimenter were unaware of the EMF condition. The EMF was created with a signal generator connected via amplifier to a dummy phone antenna, creating a power output distribution similar to the original commercial mobile phone. The EMF had either a continuous power output of 0.25 W (CW) or pulsed power output with a mean of 0.25 W. An additional control group of 16 healthy male volunteers performed the same tasks without any exposure equipment to see if mere presence of the equipment could have affected the subjects' performance. No effects were found between the different EMF conditions, separate hemisphere exposures, or between the control and experimental group. In conclusion, the current results indicate that normal mobile phones have no discernible effect on human cognitive function as measured by behavioral tests.

Familiar faces convey different types of information, unlocking memories related to social-emotional significance. Here, the availability over time of different types of memory was evaluated using the time-course of P3 event related potentials. Two oddball paradigms were employed, both using unfamiliar faces as standards. The infrequent targets were, respectively, artificially-learned faces (devoid of social-emotional content) and faces of acquaintances. Although in both tasks targets were detected accurately, the corresponding time-course and scalp distribution of the P3 responses differed. Artificially-learned and acquaintance faces both elicited a P3b, maximal over centro-parietal sites, and a latency of 500ms. Faces of acquaintances elicited an additional component, an early P3 maximal over frontal sites: with a latency of 350ms. This suggests that visual familiarity can only trigger the overt recognition processes leading to the slower P3b, whereas emotional-social information can also elicit fast and automatic assessments (indexed by the frontal-P3) crucial for successful social interactions.
This report describes the effect of replacing the central basic amine present in many known 5-HT(2A) ligands with an aromatic residue. We targeted the isomeric phenethylpyridines 2 and 3 and these compounds proved to be excellent leads, possessing good 5-HT(2A) receptor binding affinity and selectivity over the 5-HT(2C) subtype. Optimization of one isomer led to the identification of 25, a compound with sub-nanomolar 5-HT(2A) affinity and selectivity over 5-HT(2C) of greater than 4600-fold.
Large and rapid changes in light scattering accompany secretion from nerve terminals of the mammalian neurohypophysis (posterior pituitary). In the mouse, these intrinsic optical signals are intimately related to the arrival of the action potential E-wave and the release of arginine vasopressin and oxytocin (S-wave). Here we have used a high bandwidth atomic force microscope to demonstrate that these light-scattering signals are associated with changes in terminal volume that are detected as nanometer-scale movements of a cantilever positioned on top of the neurohypophysis. The most rapid mechanical response (&quot;spike&quot;), having a duration shorter than the action potential but comparable to that of the E-wave, represents a transient increase in terminal volume due to water movement associated with Na(+)-influx. The slower mechanical event (&quot;dip&quot;), on the other hand, depends upon Ca(2+)-entry as well as on intraterminal Ca(2+)-transients and, analogously to the S-wave, seems to monitor events associated with secretion.
We investigate a non-linear network with two processing stages optimized to reduce the statistical dependencies in natural images. This network serves as a model for the neural information processing in the higher visual areas of primates (visual cortices V2-V4). The resulting population is analyzed with regard to non-linear selectivity and invariance properties. We find units that are very selective with respect to the space spanned by all possible input signals and units that are invariant with respect to certain stimulus classes. In comparison to the measured distribution of selectivity in V2 neurons, the selectivity histogram of the network units shows an even more pronounced tendency towards higher selectivities. A special property of the system is the emergence of non-linear interactions between coefficients from different scales and orientations, which are necessary for the exploitation of higher-order statistical redundancies of natural images. We extend the concept to multi-layer systems and present some simulation results.
A new mathematical model to describe the spiking rate of a neural population is derived, which considers both the mean and the variance of the activity. Bifurcation analysis identifies a critical interval of parameter values in which the standard bistability regime coexists with an additional third attractor corresponding to the metastable state of bounded mean activity and high variance. To understand the structure of spatio-temporal activity in the metastable state, we study a simple discrete-time model of binary elements with random noise locally coupled on the grid, which produces rich dynamics including metastability. A critical value of the noise amplitude is identified; in the vicinity of this value the system is flexible and can easily generate transitions between UP and DOWN metastable states, either autonomously or in response to a control process. These metastable states and phase transitions provide a proper basis for the modelling of persistent neural activity reported in many experimental studies.
Enhancement of auditory transients is well documented in the auditory periphery and mid-brain, and single unit investigations have identified units with responses which may underlie this sensitivity. It is also known that transients are important in psychophysics in, for example, speech comprehension and object recognition and grouping. In this work we use a simple phenomenological model of auditory transient extraction, based on the skewness of the distribution of energy inside a frequency dependent time window, and show that this view is consistent with electrophysiological measurements of auditory brainstem responses. In addition, we present evidence that this representation may provide a positive biological advantage in processing classes of sound that are behaviourlly relevant.
Modifying the density and distribution of ion channels in a neuron (by natural up- and down-regulation, by pharmacological intervention or by spontaneous mutations) changes its activity pattern. In the present investigation, we analyze how the impulse patterns are regulated by the density of voltage-gated channels in a model neuron, based on voltage clamp measurements of hippocampal interneurons. At least three distinct oscillatory patterns, associated with three distinct regions in the Na-K channel density plane, were found. A stability analysis showed that the different regions are characterized by saddle-node, double-orbit, and Hopf bifurcation threshold dynamics, respectively. Single strongly graded action potentials occur in an area outside the oscillatory regions, but less graded action potentials occur together with repetitive firing over a considerable range of channel densities. The presently found relationship between channel densities and oscillatory behavior may be relevance for understanding principal spiking patterns of cortical neurons (regular firing and fast spiking). It may also be of relevance for understanding the action of pharmacological compounds on brain oscillatory activity.
It has been argued that information processing in the cortex is optimised with regard to certain information theoretic principles. We have, for instance, recently shown that spike-timing dependent plasticity can improve an information-theoretic measure called spatio-temporal stochastic interaction which captures how strongly a set of neurons cooperates in space and time. Systems with high stochastic interaction reveal Poisson spike trains but nonetheless occupy only a strongly reduced area in their global phase space, they reveal repetiting but complex global activation patterns, and they can be interpreted as computational systems operating on selected sets of collective patterns or &quot;global states&quot; in a rule-like manner. In the present work we investigate stochastic interaction in high-resolution EEG-data from cat auditory cortex. Using Kohonen maps to reduce the high-dimensional dynamics of the system, we are able to detect repetiting system states and estimate the stochastic interaction in the data, which turns out to be fairly high. This suggests an organised cooperation in the underlying neural networks which cause the data and may reflect generic intrinsic computational capabilities of the cortex.
Demyelinating disorders, including multiple sclerosis (MS), are common causes of neurological disability. One critical step towards the management and therapy of demyelinating diseases is to understand the basic functions of myelinating glia and their relationship with axons. Axons and myelinating glia, oligodendrocytes in the central (CNS) and Schwann cells in the peripheral (PNS) nervous systems, reciprocally influence each other's development and trophism. These interactions are critical for the formation of distinct axonal domains in myelinated fibers that ensure the rapid propagation of action potentials. Macromolecular complexes mediating axo-glial interactions in these domains have been identified, consisting of members of the immunoglobulin superfamily (IgSF) of adhesion molecules and the neurexin/NCP superfamily as well as other proteins. We have investigated the molecular details of axo-glial interactions in the juxtaparanodal region of myelinated fibers by utilizing domain-specific GFP constructs and immunoprecipitation assays on transfected cells. We have shown that the immunoglobulin domains of the IgSF member TAG-1/Cnt-2 are necessary and sufficient for the direct, cis interaction of this protein with Caspr2 and potassium channels.



Schizophrenia is a complex and debilitating disorder. Although effective therapeutic strategies are available, these are not without problems and are not universally efficacious. In this issue of the British Journal of Pharmacology, a trio of papers describe the characterisation of a potential, novel anti-psychotic medication, F15063. This compound combines antagonism of dopamine D(2)-like receptors with agonism at 5-HT(1A) receptors. Based on in vitro and in vivo profiles, the authors suggest that this compound approaches the 'optimal balance' for activity at these receptor systems.


Human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) are a potential source of defined tissue for cell-based therapies in regenerative neurology. In order for this potential to be realized, there is a need for the evaluation of the behaviour of human embryonic stem cell-derived neural stem cells (hES-NSCs) both in the normal and the injured CNS. Using normal tissue and two experimental models, we examined the response of clinically compatible hES-NSCs to physiological and pathological signals. We demonstrate that the phenotypic potential of a multipotent population of hES-NSCs is influenced by these cues both in vitro and in vivo. hES-NSCs display a temporal profile of neurogenic and gliogenic differentiation, with the generation of mature neurons and glia over 4 weeks in vitro, and 20 weeks in the uninjured rodent brain. However, transplantation into the pathological CNS accelerates maturation and polarizes hES-NSC differentiation potential. This study highlights the role of environmental signals in determining both lineage commitment and temporal maturation of human neural stem cells. Controlled manipulation of environmental signals appropriate to the pathological specificity of the targeted disease will be necessary in the design of therapeutic stem cell-based strategies.

Acute administration of neuropeptide Y (NPY) modulates alcohol intake in genetic and chemical models of high intake, while leaving intake unaffected during 'normal' or baseline conditions. In non-selected, normal rat lines, alcohol consumption can be increased by prolonged exposure to alcohol, and it is unclear what effect a constitutive increase in NPY function will have on alcohol intake. The purpose of the present study was to examine the effects on alcohol intake of an inducible, constitutive overexpression of NPY, one of the most abundant neuropeptides in the central nervous system. A liquid diet was used in combination with repeated alcohol deprivation sessions to increase alcohol intake in normal Wistar rats. We then examined the effect of NPY overexpression in the amygdala on excessive alcohol intake produced by prolonged exposure to alcohol and alcohol deprivation. Repeated withdrawal increased alcohol consumption in a 24-h continuous access two-bottle choice model. Both the number of withdrawals as well as the length of the withdrawal periods affected alcohol consumption with an increased intake resulting from multiple withdrawals and the alcohol deprivation effect being enhanced by longer periods of abstinence. The increase in intake following repeated abstinence was blunted by intra-amygdala administration of a Sindbis viral vector containing NPY cDNA. Amygdala NPY overexpression also was demonstrated to be anxiolytic in the open field test. Repeated withdrawal in combination with a history of alcohol consumption significantly elevated alcohol intake, and the amygdala may mediate the transition to high-drinking states in this model.
Since the inception of Brain, Behavior and Immunity twenty years ago, many exciting developments have occurred regarding the relationship between depression and the immune system. These developments have increasingly put the field of psychoneuroimmunology into a clinical context with important translational implications. Initial studies focused on the impact of depression on relatively narrowly defined immunologic endpoints, which ultimately found their relevance in studies examining the effect of depression on immunologically-based diseases including infectious illnesses, autoimmune disorders, and cancer as well as more recently cardiovascular disease. Mechanistic studies have also greatly contributed to an understanding of those facets of depression, which might mediate these effects. More recently, the reciprocal influences of the immune system on the brain and behavior including depression have taken center stage. Increasing data now indicate that activated inflammatory processes can influence multiple aspects of CNS function including neurotransmitter metabolism, neuroendocrine function, and information processing leading to behavioral changes in humans that bespeak depression. These latter developments have intrigued scientists investigating the pathophysiology of depression and warrant consideration as some of the most exciting new developments in psychiatry in the past 20 years. What the future holds is a world of promise as multiple translational targets derived from the cytokine model of depression work their way into the clinical arena as drug targets for further development. Moreover, the work has served to instantiate brain-immune interactions as an essential component in psychiatric and medical co-morbidities and their impact on health and illness.
Viral infections can cause persistent and progressive changes in emotional and cognitive functions. The viral-induced imbalances in neuronal network functioning may precipitate or accentuate psychiatric conditions in vulnerable individuals, in part, as a function of the host response to proinflammatory cytokines resulting from infection or brain injury. Research indicates that the mediators of psychiatric illnesses and HIV-neuropathogenesis utilize similar brain structures, neurocircuitry and receptor systems. The genetic, cellular and molecular mechanisms contributing to HIV neuropathogenesis and its late stage clinical correlate, HIV-associated-dementia (HAD), are active areas of neuroAIDS research. The study of HIV in the context of psychiatric comorbidities and comorbid pathogenesis is in a fledgling stage despite epidemiological studies suggesting that &gt;60% of HIV infected individuals will suffer from at least one major psychiatric disorder during the course of infection. Depression is the primary comorbid disorder but anxiety and substance abuse disorders are also considerable in certain HIV(+) populations. Certain substances of abuse and the biological mediators of psychiatric illnesses reportedly interact in the brain and presumptively worsen HIV-related neuropathogenesis and survival measures. A panel of experts discussed approaches for studying the neuroscience of HIV and psychiatric comorbidity at a basic, mechanistic level since they co-exist in high proportion in the human population. Recommended approaches ranged from improving human consent forms and maximizing the value of repository resources to novel research designs and identifying human and animal endophenotypes.
Poly inosinic:poly cytidylic acid (poly I:C) is a synthetic double-stranded RNA and is a ligand for the Toll like receptor-3. This receptor is involved in the innate immune response to viral infection and poly I:C has been used to mimic the acute phase of a viral infection. The effects of TLR3 activation on brain function have not been widely studied. In the current study we investigate the spectrum of sickness behavioural changes induced by poly I:C in C57BL/6 mice and the CNS expression of inflammatory mediators that may underlie this. Poly I:C, at doses of 2, 6 and 12 mg/kg, induced a dose-responsive sickness behaviour, decreasing locomotor activity, burrowing and body weight, and caused a mild hyperthermia at 6h. The 12 mg/kg dose caused significant hypothermia at later times. The Remo400 remote Telemetry system proved a sensitive measure of this biphasic temperature response. The behavioural responses to poly I:C were not significantly blunted upon a second poly I:C challenge either 1 or 3 weeks later. Plasma concentrations of IL-6, TNF-alpha and IFN-beta were markedly elevated and IL-1 beta was also detectable. Cytokine synthesis within the CNS, as determined by quantitative PCR, was dominated by IL-6, with lesser inductions of IL-1 beta, TNF-alpha and IFN-beta and there was a clear activation of cyclooxygenase-2 at the brain endothelium. These findings demonstrate clear CNS effects of peripheral TLR3 stimulation and will be useful in studying aspects of the effects of systemic viral infection on brain function in both normal and pathological situations.
Stressor and cytokine challenges provoke several common effects, and may synergistically influence behavioral and neurochemical functioning. In the present investigation, we assessed whether the effects of poly I:C would be influenced when administered on a backdrop of a psychosocial stressor. In nave mice, poly I:C (2mg/kg) modestly increased sickness behaviors, plasma IL-6, TNF-alpha and IL-10 levels, but did not affect IL-1, IL-4, or IFN-gamma. The viral analogue also increased plasma corticosterone levels and norepinephrine (NE) utilization within the paraventricular hypothalamus (PVN) and hippocampus. However, among mice that had experienced social disruption (comprising 14 days of isolation followed by regrouping), the behavioral, IL-6, IL-10, and corticoid alterations provoked by poly I:C were markedly augmented. Moreover, following social disruption the effect of poly I:C on NE utilization was increased within the PVN, prefrontal cortex and central amygdala, as was serotonin utilization within the hippocampus. The effects of poly I:C were likewise augmented following social disruption engendered by introducing mice to strangers.. However, among mice that had previously been exposed to a chronic, variable psychosocial stressor regimen, the augmented behavioral, neuroendocrine and monoamine effects of poly I:C were absent, and IL-6 and IL-10 levels were reduced relative to mice that had not been chronically stressed. In contrast, levels of IL-1 beta and IFN-gamma were increased. Mechanisms that might be responsible for the interactive effects of social disruption and immune activation are presented, and the data were related to depressive symptoms associated with stressor and cytokine treatments.
Diffusion tractography of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), such as diffusion tensor tractography, allows us to visualize white matter tracts in vivo and to study white matter integrity quantitatively. Virtual dissection of the living human brain can be performed in the first time. We developed tracking software, dTV and VOLUME-ONE, in 2001, as a freeware (http://www.ut-radiology.umin.jp/people/masutani/dTV. htm), and we used it to visualize eloquent white matter bundles with relationship to brain tumors, cerebral infarctions and other lesions. We also used it for quantitative measurement of the specific tracts segmented by diffusion tensor tractography (tract-specific analysis) to reveal abnormalities in so-called normal appearing white matter. Three dimensional visualization of the white matter fibers such as corticospinal (pyramidal) tract, optic radiation and arcuate fasciculus with relationship to brain tumors such as gliomas was extremely helpful for preoperative evaluation and intraoperative navigation. We correlated tracking with intraoperative electric fiber stimulation to validate fiber tracking. In patients with small lacunar infarctions near the corticospinal tracts, relationship between the tract and fresh infarction correlated well with final (2 weeks-later) motor function. Quantitative measurement of the tract is a very sensitive tool. We analyzed the corticospinal and corticobulbar tracts in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Changes of the diffusion parameters (fractional anisotropy and ADC) of the tracts were observed not only between normal controls but also between subtypes of ALS (limb- and bulbar-onset). Tract- specific analysis can also apply for the limbic-related tracts such as fornix, cingulum, uncinate fasciculus and etc. We observed differences in some of the fibers in neurocognitive/psychiatric patients such as schizophrenia and Alzheimer disease. Using fiber tracking, we can now develop white matter mapping. We visualized components of the pyramidal tract (fibers from foot, hand, face motor areas separately) and made a probabilistic map. Diffusion tractography is a unique tool to visualize and segment the white matter pathways and one can evaluate the segmented tract quantitatively. Importance of this tool will become more significant in clinical and neuroscience fields in the future.

This article presents the latest developments in neuroscience information dissemination through the SenseLab suite of databases: NeuronDB, CellPropDB, ORDB, OdorDB, OdorMapDB, ModelDB and BrainPharm. These databases include information related to: (i) neuronal membrane properties and neuronal models, and (ii) genetics, genomics, proteomics and imaging studies of the olfactory system. We describe here: the new features for each database, the evolution of SenseLab's unifying database architecture and instances of SenseLab database interoperation with other neuroscience online resources.
For some years, the concept of stress has been accepted as a reference framework for the study of disturbances of psychological adjustment to cancer. Stress is defined as a state of physiological and psychological &lt; tension &gt; resulting from the interaction between an individual and her environment. Damaging consequences of chronic stress include functional and structural alterations of the central nervous system, which have to be understood in order to propose effective treatment strategies for frequently encountered psychopathological responses to cancer. The clinical manifestations of stress include anxious and depressive symptoms which can reach pathological intensity under the form of major depression and post-traumatic stress disorder. Depression also represents a type of post-traumatic stress syndrome. These clinical entities commonly require the use of antidepressant treatments. Because of some obstacles, however, studies assessing the use and efficacy of antidepressants in oncology remain extremely scanty. Furthermore, clinical conditions characterized by drug treatment resistance are still uneasily managed due to partial understanding of the fine-tuned mechanisms of action of antidepressants. A thorough discussion of these mechanisms is therefore needed in order to precisely delineate (1) the neurobiological bases of the physiopathology of stress and (2) how to extend this knowledge to the care of depression in oncology. Maybe more important in this respect is the fact that recent scientific data provide a growing support for the potential role of psychological variables in the evolution and prognosis of cancer. In this paper, we travel back to the origins of antidepressant action theories, with the monoaminergic hypothesis, that revealed the role of serotonin and norepinephrine in the physiopathology of depression. We will focus on signal transduction cascades leading to the expression of genes coding for transcription and growth factors (CREB and BDNF). The importance of neuronal atrophy in the physiopathology of chronic stress and of neurogenesis in the action of antidepressants will also be emphasized. Finally, we present the information processing hypothesis, which provides strong support to the use of combined treatment strategies, associating psychotherapy and pharmacological approaches in the care of severe depression in patients with cancer.
The fields of neuroscience and bone biology have recently converged following the discovery that bone remodeling is directly regulated by the brain. This work has defined bone remodeling as one of the cardinal physiological functions of the body, subject to homeostatic regulation and integrated with the other major physiological functions by the hypothalamus. Central to this discovery was the definition of the adipocyte-derived hormone leptin as a regulator of both arms of bone remodeling, formation and resorption, through its action on the ventromedial hypothalamus and subsequently via the sympathetic nervous system to osteoblasts. The characterization of the sympathetic nervous system as a regulator of bone remodeling has led to several large clinical studies demonstrating a substantial protective effect of beta-blockers, particularly beta1-blockers, on fracture risk. Studies in model organisms have reinforced the role of the central nervous system in the regulation of bone remodeling in vivo by the identification of several additional genes, namely cocaine and amphetamine regulated transcript (Cart), melanocortin 4 receptor (Mc4R), neuropeptide Y (NPY), Y2 receptor, cannabinoid receptor CB1 (Cnbr1), and the genes of the circadian clock. These genes have several common features, including high levels of expression in the hypothalamus and the ability to regulate other major physiological functions in addition to bone remodeling including energy homeostasis, body weight, and reproduction. We review the major pathways that define the new field of neuroskeletal biology and identify further avenues of inquiry.
Since 1999, Cryptococcus gattii has been identified as a primary pathogen on Vancouver Island in British Columbia, and it has resulted in infection of both people and animals living in that area. A previously healthy 45-year-old female resident of Alberta developed C gattii infection 11 months after travelling to an endemic region of Vancouver Island. A case of an immunocompetent patient, with an atypically long incubation time, who presented with subacute meningitis secondary to disseminated pulmonary cryptococcosis is presented. The present report highlights the need for clinical vigilance in treating patients presenting with atypical pulmonary infections or meningitis who have been holiday travellers to endemic areas of Vancouver Island.




In the 1700's a strange new disease affecting sheep was recognized in Europe. The disease later became known as &quot;Scrapie&quot; and was the first of a family of similar diseases affecting a number of species that are now known as the Transmissible Spongiform Encephalopathies (TSEs). The appearance of a new disease in humans linked to the consumption of meat products from infected cattle has stimulated widespread public concern and scientific interest in the prion protein and related diseases. Nearly 300 years after the first report, these diseases still merit the descriptor &quot;strange&quot;. This family of diseases is characterized by a unique profile of histological changes, can be transmitted as inherited or acquired diseases, as well as apparent sporadic spontaneous generation of the disease. These diseases are believed by many, to be caused by a unique protein only infectious agent. The &quot;prion protein&quot; (PrPC), a term first coined by Stanley Prusiner in 1982 is crucial to the development of these diseases, apparently by acting as a substrate for an abnormal disease associated form. However, aside from being critical to the pathogenesis of the disease, the function of PrPC, which is expressed in all mammals, has defied definitive description. Several roles have been proposed on the basis of in vitro studies, however, thus far, in vivo confirmation has not been forthcoming. The biological features of PrPC also seem to be unusual. Numerous mouse models have been generated in an attempt to understand the pathogenesis of these diseases. This review summarizes the current state of histological features, the etiologic agent, the normal metabolism and the function of the prion protein, as well as the limitations of the mouse models.
The age-related decline in skeletal muscle strength could, in part, result from alterations in the mechanism of excitation-contraction coupling, responsible for muscle contraction. In the present work, we used the in vitro aging of murine myogenic (i28) cells as a model, to investigate whether the inefficiency of aged satellite cells to generate functional skeletal muscle fibres could be partly due to defective voltage-dependent Ca2+ currents. The whole-cell patch clamp technique was employed to measure L- and T-type Ca2+ currents in myotubes derived from the differentiation and fusion of these cells reaching replicative senescence. Our data showed that the expression and the amplitude of these currents decreased significantly during in vitro aging. Moreover, the analysis of the L-type current evoked in young and old cells by positive voltage steps, revealed no differences in the kinetics of activation, but significant alterations in the rate of inactivation. These effects of in vitro aging on voltage-dependent Ca2+ currents could also be related to their inability to fuse into myotubes. Taken together, our data support the hypothesis that age-related effects on voltage-dependent L- and T-type currents could be one of the causes of the failure of satellite cells to efficiently counteract the impairment in muscle force.
Apoptosis triggered by endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress is associated with various pathophysiological conditions including neurodegenerative diseases and ischemia. However, the mechanism by which ER stress induces neuronal apoptosis remains controversial. Here we identify the pathway of apoptosis carried out in sympathetic neurons triggered to die by ER stress-inducing agent tunicamycin. We find that ER stress induces a neuronal apoptotic pathway which upregulates BH3-only genes DP5 and Puma. Importantly, we show that ER stress commits neurons to die before cytochrome c release and this commitment requires Bax activation and c-jun N-terminal kinase signaling. Furthermore, ER stress engages the mitochondrial pathway of death as neurons release cytochrome c and Apaf-1 deficiency is sufficient to block apoptosis. Our findings identify a critical function of Bax in committing neurons to ER stress-induced apoptosis and clarify the importance of the apoptosome as the non-redundant caspase activation pathway to execute neuronal apoptosis in response to ER stress.
Physiologic roles of highly phosphorylated inositol phosphates, including those containing pyrophosphate groups, have been the focus of much recent interest. In the April 6, 2007 issue of Science, two papers (Lee et al., 2007; Mulugu et al., 2007) demonstrate the occurrence of a novel inositol pyrophosphate molecule in yeast and elucidate its role in phosphate homeostasis.

The number of epidemiological headache studies is rapidly increasing, and has accentuated the need to improve the quality of the way studies are performed and how results are interpreted. The aims of this review were to summarize the main findings from the Head-HUNT study, to describe strengths and limitations of the Head-HUNT approach and to discuss the significance of some of our findings. Head-HUNT included a large sample size of 51,383 participants that gave the opportunity to make analyses also of relatively rare conditions. The wide range of health-related information made it possible to adjust for many potential confounding variables. Blood samples for future genetic headache studies are available for a non-selected large group of individuals. The data show that among several factors that have been evaluated, age and gender were the two most clearly related to migraine, whereas analgesic overuse and the presence of some comorbid conditions were most strongly associated with the prevalence of chronic headache. Interesting relationships to blood pressure and thyroid-stimulating hormone levels were also found. Methodological problems in headache epidemiological studies are discussed and, in particular, problems with causal inferences. Despite the limitations of the head-HUNT study, we believe that the results so far have provided clues to causes and preventive factors of headache that should be explored in other populations and in prospective studies.
Motor skill learning requires the involvement and integration of several cortical and subcortical regions. In this study, we focus on how the functional connectivity of cortical networks changes with the acquisition of a novel motor skill. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we measured the localized blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) signal in cortical regions while subjects performed a bimanual serial reaction time task under 2 conditions: 1) explicitly learning a novel sequence (NOVEL) and 2) playing a previously learned sequence (LEARNED). To investigate stages of learning, each condition was further divided into nonoverlapping early and late conditions. Functional connectivity was measured using a task-specific low-frequency coherence analysis of the data. We show that within the cortical motor network, the sensorimotor cortex, premotor cortex, and supplementary motor area have significantly greater inter- and intrahemispheric coupling during the early NOVEL condition compared with the late NOVEL condition. Additionally, we observed greater connectivity between frontal regions and cortical motor regions in the early versus late NOVEL contrast. No changes in functional connectivity were observed in the LEARNED condition. These results demonstrate that the functional connectivity of the cortical motor network is modulated with practice and suggest that early skill learning is mediated by enhanced interregional coupling.
The relationship between neural activity and object perception has received considerable attention using stimulus manipulations such as masking or dichoptic presentation. Here we investigate the same problem by occluding objects with an opaque screen that acts to dissociate the direct perception of the object from the awareness of its presence. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to measure brain activity when subjects viewed objects (faces and houses) that underwent occlusion and found that the response of the majority of the fusiform face area (FFA) and lateral occipital cortex is the same whether the object is visible or occluded. This suggests that when objects are directly viewed, activity within object-selective regions may reflect the awareness of presence, not the direct perception, of the object. Additionally, we identify a region of premotor cortex that is selectively activated by occlusion of either object type, suggesting its generic involvement with processing occluded objects.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) of the human brain has shown that the hippocampus and the left temporal and frontal cortices play a key role in the formation of new verbal memories. We recorded electrical activity from 2349 surgically implanted intracranial electrodes in epilepsy patients while they studied and later recalled lists of common words. Using these recordings, we demonstrate that gamma oscillations (44-64 Hz) in the hippocampus and the left temporal and frontal cortices predict successful encoding of new verbal memories. This increase in gamma oscillations was not seen in other frequency bands, whose activity generally decreased during successful memory formation. These findings identify a role for gamma oscillations in verbal memory formation with the hippocampus and the left temporal and frontal cortices, the same regions implicated using noninvasive fMRI recording methods.
Adolescence is marked by profound psychological and neuroendocrine changes. Cognitive functions that depend on the prefrontal cortex and dopamine (DA), such as decision making, are acquired or refined during adolescence; yet, little is known about how neural circuits mature in the transition to adulthood. Here, we conducted electrophysiological recordings in rat brain slices, unveiling an enhancement of the excitability of interneurons, which are important for cortical network activity, by D(1) and D(2) DA receptors. The D(2) effect was observed in slices from adult (postnatal day [PD] &gt; 50) but not preadolescent (PD &lt; 36) animals suggesting a possible neural substrate for the maturation of DA-dependent prefrontal cortical functions during or after adolescence and identifying a critical neural population that could be involved in the periadolescent onset of neuropsychiatric disorders, such as schizophrenia.
Viewing a speaker's articulatory movements substantially improves a listener's ability to understand spoken words, especially under noisy environmental conditions. It has been claimed that this gain is most pronounced when auditory input is weakest, an effect that has been related to a well-known principle of multisensory integration--&quot;inverse effectiveness.&quot; In keeping with the predictions of this principle, the present study showed substantial gain in multisensory speech enhancement at even the lowest signal-to-noise ratios (SNRs) used (-24 dB), but it was also evident that there was a &quot;special zone&quot; at a more intermediate SNR of -12 dB where multisensory integration was additionally enhanced beyond the predictions of this principle. As such, we show that inverse effectiveness does not strictly apply to the multisensory enhancements seen during audiovisual speech perception. Rather, the gain from viewing visual articulations is maximal at intermediate SNRs, well above the lowest auditory SNR where the recognition of whole words is significantly different from zero. We contend that the multisensory speech system is maximally tuned for SNRs between extremes, where the system relies on either the visual (speech-reading) or the auditory modality alone, forming a window of maximal integration at intermediate SNR levels. At these intermediate levels, the extent of multisensory enhancement of speech recognition is considerable, amounting to more than a 3-fold performance improvement relative to an auditory-alone condition.
Dopaminergic modulation of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) plays an important role in cognitive functions, including working memory. At optimal concentrations, dopamine (DA) enhances pyramidal cell (PC) firing to increase task-related activity. However, spatial and temporal &quot;tuning&quot; of the persistent firing that underlies this mnemonic activity requires inhibitory control from gamma-aminobutyric acidergic (GABAergic) interneurons. How DA modulates the inhibitory control provided by different types of interneurons in the primate cortex is not known. We studied the effects of DA and DA receptor-specific agonists and antagonists on GABAergic inhibition and interneuron excitability in slices from primate DLPFC. Using whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings from layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons, we examined the effects of DA on spontaneous (action potential dependent) and miniature (action potential independent) inhibitory postsynaptic currents. We found that DA can increase inhibition via a presynaptic, action potential-dependent mechanism. In current-clamp recordings from physiologically and morphologically identified interneurons, we investigated the pharmacology and cell type specificity of this effect. DA increased the excitability of fast-spiking (FS), nonadapting interneurons via activation of D1- but not D2-type receptors. In contrast, DA had no effect on interneurons with adapting firing patterns. Thus, DA and D1 receptor activation affect local recurrent circuits by selectively modulating FS interneurons that control the firing of PCs through perisomatic innervation.
Although numerous functional magnetic resonance imaging (FMRI) studies have been performed on the processing of olfactory information, the intranasal trigeminal system so far has not received much attention. In the present study, we sought to delineate the neural correlates of trigeminal stimulation using carbon dioxide (CO(2)) presented to the left or right nostril. Fifteen right-handed men underwent FMRI using single runs of 3 conditions (CO(2) in the right and the left nostrils and an olfactory stimulant-phenyl ethyl alcohol-in the right nostril). As expected, olfactory activations were located in the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), amygdala, and rostral insula. For trigeminal stimulation, activations were found in &quot;trigeminal&quot; and &quot;olfactory&quot; regions including the pre- and postcentral gyrus, the cerebellum, the ventrolateral thalamus, the insula, the contralateral piriform cortex, and the OFC. Left compared with right side stimulations resulted in stronger cerebellar and brain stem activations; right versus left stimulation resulted in stronger activations of the superior temporal sulcus and OFC. These results suggest a trigeminal processing system that taps into similar cortical regions and yet is separate from that of the olfactory system. The overlapping pattern of cortical activation for trigeminal and olfactory stimuli is assumed to be due to the intimate connections in the processing of information from the 2 major intranasal chemosensory systems.

This study investigated the effects of pediatric traumatic brain injury (TBI) on prospective memory. Fourteen children and 14 adolescents with TBI were compared with 25 and 23 noninjured children and adolescents, respectively. Based on a prefrontal model, the cognitive demand on the ongoing component of a prospective-memory task was manipulated. Overall, those with TBI had poorer prospective-memory performance than their noninjured peers. Performance was worse in a high cognitive-demand condition than a low, and younger children performed worse than adolescents. Decreases in performance from the low- to high-demand conditions were not significantly different between the two children's groups but were between the two adolescents' groups. Furthermore, the age and injury effects were reflected in the performances on executive function tests: the Self-ordered Pointing Task (SOPT), and the Stroop Color Word Interference Test. The Tower of London (TOL), which did not produce age or injury effects, was nevertheless found to be an important predictor of performance on the high-demand task in those with TBI. Although previous research has demonstrated impaired prospective memory performance in children with TBI, this study attempted to explain why this might occur, specifically that the prefrontal regions might be implicated.
Proprioception is a term covering together joint position sense, kinesthesia and integration of these stimuli in the central nervous system which is needed to keep homeosthasis of joints during motion. The aim of this study is to present authors originally created measuring device working according to the principles of Barrett, aiming at evaluation of proprioception of the knee. The construction of this device is based on the Summer chair, model UPR-01B, working in connection with Bosh goniometer DWM-40L measuring angles with a precision of 0,1 degree. The device presented in this study fulfills all criteria required for this kind of apparatus and may be an alternative to other constructs produced commercially and available on the market.

Prefrontal cortex (PFC) dysfunction can lead to impairment in planning and behavioral inhibition, as well as personality changes. As ascending monoaminergic brainstem systems modulate PFC functioning, it is possible that lesions in the brainstem lead to symptoms similar to prefrontal dysfunction. A 29-year-old man developed several cognitive and behavioral symptoms after neurosurgery for resection of a pilocytic astrocytoma in the pontine-mesencephalic area. A careful analysis of symptoms indicated PFC dysfunction that could be attributed to lesions in the ascending monoaminergic brainstem systems. Interestingly, the cognitive symptoms improved after treatment with methylphenidate, which is a drug that modules catecholaminergic neurotransmission, thereby supporting this hypothesis. This is a unique case of PFC dysfunction that may be related to post-operative lesion of the catecholaminergic nuclei in the brainstem.

Methadone inhibits the cardiac potassium channel hERG and can cause a prolonged QT interval. Methadone is chiral but its therapeutic activity is mainly due to (R)-methadone. Whole-cell patch-clamp experiments using cells expressing hERG showed that (S)-methadone blocked the hERG current 3.5-fold more potently than (R)-methadone (IC50s (half-maximal inhibitory concentrations) at 37 degrees C: 2 and 7 microM). As CYP2B6 slow metabolizer (SM) status results in a reduced ability to metabolize (S)-methadone, electrocardiograms, CYP2B6 genotypes, and (R)- and (S)-methadone plasma concentrations were obtained for 179 patients receiving (R,S)-methadone. The mean heart-rate-corrected QT (QTc) was higher in CYP2B6 SMs (*6/*6 genotype; 439+/-25 ms; n=11) than in extensive metabolizers (non *6/*6; 421+/-25 ms; n=168; P=0.017). CYP2B6 SM status was associated with an increased risk of prolonged QTc (odds ratio=4.5, 95% confidence interval=1.2-17.7; P=0.03). This study reports the first genetic factor implicated in methadone metabolism that may increase the risk of cardiac arrhythmias and sudden death. This risk could be reduced by the administration of (R)-methadone.

Philosophers have long struggled with questions about the nature of personal identity and of the self, with some viewing the self as a transcendent entity, and others arguing that the self is a constructed fiction. An approach based in cognitive-affective neuroscience emphasizes that self-related structures and processes are based in the brain-mind, and emerge within the social processes of human development. Alterations in such structures and processes are present in a wide range of neurological and psychiatric disorders, and neuropsychiatric lesion and functional brain imaging studies have led to more detailed awareness of the precise neuronal circuitry underlying self-representations. A cognitive-affective neuroscience approach provides a conceptual basis from which clinical research can further explore how best to assess and treat a wide range of disruptions to the self.

To address the extent to which the visual foveal representation is split, we examine the case of a patient, M.B., suffering from a left mesial occipital lesion and presenting a pure left hemialexia and a right hemianopia with a spared area of the macula. Reading performance on tachistoscopically presented four-letter words and pseudowords in the spared area of the right visual field was significantly better than reading performance in the intact left visual field. Reading performance in the spared area of the right visual field was also significantly better than reading performance of stimuli centred on the fovea. Moreover, a length effect was found only in the left half of pseudowords centred on the fovea, but not in the right half (up to five letters). These differences in reading efficiency between the left and right halves of the foveal region militates in favour of the split fovea theory and cannot be explained by the bilateral projection theory.
On the basis of a review of the literature and the results of three experiments with dog experts, Robbins and McKone [Robbins, R. A., &amp; McKone, E. (2006). No face-like processing for objects-of-expertise in three behavioural tasks, Cognition] argue that there is little or no evidence supporting an expertise account of the differences in configural processing that are typically observed between faces and non-face objects. In the spirit of a debate that has become overly polarized, we believe that R&amp;M often emphasized relatively unimportant controversial issues at the expense of bigger, more important questions. We also feel that some of R&amp;M's arguments are rooted in methodological confusions that should be clarified because they have implications beyond this specific debate. In this commentary, we first clarify issues surrounding the proper statistical analysis of the composite paradigm, a methodology that is commonly used to assess configural and holistic effects in both face and non-face objects. We then discuss several theoretical issues that we feel are central to the debate regarding accounts of face-specificity. We also briefly review positive evidence for the correlation between measures of behavioral expertise and neural markers of face-selectivity. Unlike R&amp;M, we believe the positive evidence for expertise effects, both behavioral and neural, greatly outweighs evidence stemming from null results and that it clearly motivates the importance of future work on the role of experience in the specialization of visual cortex.
Comorbidity of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) in bipolar disorder is well documented. However, clinical characteristics of bipolar OCD are not well studied. The objective of the present study was to compare the clinical characteristics of bipolar and nonbipolar OCD. We chose 28 subjects with bipolar-OCD comorbidity from a sample of 80 remitted bipolar subjects (bipolar OCD) attending the outpatient services of the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences, Bangalore, India, over a period of 11 months. We also recruited 78 nonbipolar OCD subjects consecutively during the same period from the OCD clinic of the institute. They underwent systematic assessment using both structured and unstructured clinical interviews and corroborative information obtained from the immediate family members and the hospital clinical charts. Bipolar OCD subjects were characterized by episodic course of OCD, high family loading for mood disorders, and comorbidity with depression, social phobia, and generalized anxiety disorder. They had less severe OCD and had somewhat different symptom profile compared with nonbipolar OCD. The OCD predated bipolar disorder in 54% of the bipolar OCD subjects; and in the remaining subjects, it had an onset during the course of bipolar disorder. Most bipolar OCD subjects reported worsening of OCD in depression (n = 22, 78%) and improvement in manic/hypomanic episodes (n = 18, 64%). Our findings suggest that OCD in those with a primary diagnosis of bipolar disorder is perhaps pathophysiologically related to bipolar disorder than to OCD. This is strongly supported by the episodic course of OCD, high familial loading for mood disorders, and worsening of OCD in depression with improvement in hypomania/mania phases. There is a need for systematic exploration of the OCD-bipolar comorbidity in both OCD and bipolar samples. Family-genetic and other neurobiological research and the prospective follow-up of bipolar and nonbipolar OCD subjects would further enhance our understanding of this complex comorbidity. The cross-sectional nature of the study based on retrospective assessment of course, the small sample size and the inclusion of only remitted bipolar subjects are the limitations of this study.
Rat subventricular zone (SVZ) stem cells were labeled with superparamagnetic iron oxide particles (SPIO) to follow their fate and migratory potential with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and positron emission tomography (PET). Labeled cells were transplanted into either the right rostral migratory stream (RMS) or striatum of normal adult Sprague-Dawley rats and serially followed for 3 months. Minimal migration of the cells implanted into the striatum was observed after 3 weeks whereas SVZ cells implanted into the RMS migrated toward the olfactory bulb at 1 week post-transplantation. PET studies of glucose metabolism using (18)F-FDG demonstrated enhanced glucose utilization in the striatum of transplanted animals. PET studies conducted 3 months after transplantation showed elevated accumulation of (11)C-raclopride (dopamine receptor type 2) and (11)C-CFT (dopamine transporter) binding in the striatal grafts. Implanted SVZ cells did not induce significant inflammation as identified by PET using (11)C-PK11195, a ligand detecting activated microglia. Histological analysis identified viable SPIO-labeled cells (some of which were nestin-positive) 7 weeks post-transplantation, suggesting a prolonged presence of undifferentiated neural stem cells within transplants. In addition, double immunostaining for neuronal and astrocytic markers (NeuN and GFAP) indicated that differentiation into neuronal and astrocytic phenotypes also occurred. Thus, combining MRI and PET enables monitoring of cell migration and metabolism non-invasively in vivo for extended periods of time.

Bacterial infection is a frequent event in renal transplant recipients and often requires the use of antimicrobial agents. In this paper it is reported an evidence of pharmacokinetic interaction between clarithromycin and sirolimus in a kidney transplanted woman, suffering from pulmonary infection sustained by a bacterial pathogen, in particular Hemophilus Influenzae. In the present case report, the concomitant administration of clarithromycin and sirolimus determined impressive increase of sirolimus trough blood concentrations from 6.2 up to 54 ng/mL and this increase was associated with an acute impairment of renal function, almost completely reversed upon both drugs discontinuation. This drug-drug interaction is due to a likely inhibition of activity of both cytochrome P450 3A4 and P-glycoprotein. Although this interaction could be predicted, it represents the first reported clinical evidence.
In the central nervous system, glutamate is essential for a proper synaptic communication in neuronal networks supporting critical behavioral activities such as learning and memory. Dysfunction of glutamatergic excitatory neurotransmission has been implicated in numerous neurological and pyschiatric disorders and a growing body of research suggests that potentiation of NMDA receptor function may represent a novel approach for the treatment of schizophrenia. An actively pursued strategy to potentiate NMDA receptor function is to increase synaptic levels of the neurotransmitter glycine by blocking the glycine transporter type 1 (GlyT1). Since glycine acts as a co-agonist at the NMDA receptor, this approach could enhance the effectiveness of normal NMDA receptor-mediated glutamatergic neurotransmission. Recent research on the physiology of this uptake system as well as on the development and preclinical testing of novel GlyT1 inhibitors have greatly enhanced our knowledge of the role of this transporter in the modulation of NMDA receptor activity and suggested that this approach may be feasible. Clinical studies with novel glycine reuptake inhibitors will provide critical information regarding the validity of this therapeutic concept for the treatment of schizophrenia and other disorders associated with NMDA receptor hypofunction.

Enteric neurons, unlike sympathetic and sensory neurons that require target-derived neurotrophins for survival, do not undergo classical caspase-3-mediated programmed cell death (PCD) during normal development. Whether parasympathetic neurons in the pancreas, which originate from a subpopulation of enteric nervous system (ENS) precursors, or other parasympathetic neurons undergo PCD during normal mammalian development is unknown. In GFRalpha2-deficient mice, many submandibular and intrapancreatic parasympathetic neurons are missing but whether this is due to increased neuronal death is unclear. Here we show that activated caspase-3 and PGP9.5 doubly positive neurons are present in wild-type mouse pancreas between embryonic day E15 and birth. Thus, in contrast to ENS neurons, intrapancreatic neurons undergo PCD via apoptosis during normal development. We also show that, in GFRalpha2-deficient mice, most intrapancreatic neurons are lost during this late fetal period, which coincides with a period of increased apoptosis of the neurons. Since the percentage of BrdU and Phox2b doubly positive cells in the fetal pancreas and the number of intrapancreatic neurons at E15 were similar between the genotypes, impaired precursor proliferation and migration are unlikely to contribute to the loss of intrapancreatic neurons in GFRalpha2-KO mice. Caspase-3-positive neurons were also found in GFRalpha2-deficient submandibular ganglia around birth, suggesting that parasympathetic neurons depend on limited supply of (presumably target-derived neurturin) signaling via GFRalpha2 for survival.
Identifying the cellular and molecular basis for functional decline remains key to understanding aging. To this end, we have characterized age-dependent changes in climbing and the electrophysiology of the giant fiber circuitry in wild type (Wt) and mutant flies with altered lifespan (methuselah and fragile-X). Our data demonstrate a gradual decline in climbing in Wt and methuselah flies aged 5-45 days. In contrast, fragile-X flies climbed poorly even at 5 days and failed completely at 45 days. We then examined whether synaptic transmission to indirect flight muscles along the giant fiber circuit was altered with aging. At 5 days, the dorsal longitudinal muscle (DLM) in Wt flies followed high frequency stimulation well (at 130 Hz or above). At 35 and 45 days, these flies only followed 60-80 Hz. Methuselah flies did not follow stimuli as well as the Wt flies did at 5 and 25 days, but they were similar to Wt flies at older ages. Fragile-X flies responded poorly even at 5 days (40 Hz) and worsened at 35 days (30 Hz). Unlike DLMs, the tergotrochanteral muscle followed high frequency stimuli relatively well in all genotypes, suggesting that the peripheral interneuron along the DLM pathway or the DLM muscular synapse is prone to age-dependent functional decline. These studies reveal subcellular structures as potential targets of aging, indicating that the giant fiber pathway can be used as a model circuit for quantitative studies of aging in flies as well as fly models of age-related human neurological disorders.
The cellular prion protein (PrP(C)) is generally accepted to be involved in the development of prion diseases, but its physiological role is still under debate. To obtain more insight into PrP(C) functioning, we here used stable Xenopus transgenesis in combination with the proopiomelanocortin (POMC) gene promoter to express mutated forms of Xenopus PrP(C) fused to the C-terminus of the green fluorescent protein (GFP) specifically in the neuroendocrine Xenopus intermediate pituitary melanotrope cells. Similar to GFP-PrP(C), the newly synthesized GFP-PrP(C)K81A mutant protein was stepwise mono- and di-N-glycosylated to 48- and 51-kDa forms, respectively, and eventually complex glycosylated to yield a 55-kDa mature form. Unlike GFP-PrP(C), the mature GFP-PrP(C)K81A mutant protein was not cleaved, demonstrating the endoproteolytic processing of Xenopus PrP(C) at lysine residue 81. Surprisingly, removal of the glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchor signal sequence or insertion of an octarepeat still allowed N-linked glycosylation, but the GFP-PrP(C)DeltaGPI and GFP-PrP(C)octa mutant proteins were not complex glycosylated and not cleaved, indicating that the GPI/octa mutants did not reach the mid-Golgi compartment of the secretory pathway. The transgene expression of the mutant proteins did not affect the ultrastructure of the melanotrope cells nor POMC biosynthesis and processing, or POMC-derived peptide secretion. Together, our findings reveal the evolutionary conservation of the site of metabolic cleavage and the importance of the presence of the GPI anchor and the absence of the octarepeat in Xenopus PrP(C) for its correct biosynthesis.
The mechanisms underlying astrocyte heterogeneity in the developing mouse brain are poorly understood. The bHLH transcription factor Olig2 is essential for motoneuron and oligodendrocyte formation; however, its role in astrocyte development remains obscure. During cortical development, Olig2 is transiently expressed in immature developing astrocytes at neonatal stages and is progressively downregulated in astrocytes at late postnatal stages. To assess the function of Olig2 in astrocyte formation, we conditionally ablated Olig2 in a spatiotemporally controlled manner. In the Olig2-ablated cortex and spinal cord, the formation of astrocytes in the white matter is severely compromised. Temporally controlled mutagenesis revealed that postnatal Olig2 function is required for astrocyte differentiation in the cerebral white matter. By contrast, astrocytes in the cortical gray matter are formed, but with sustained GFAP upregulation in the superficial layers. Cell type-specific mutagenesis and fate-mapping analyses indicate that abnormal astrocyte formation is at least in part attributable to the loss of Olig2 in developing astrocytes and their precursors. Thus, our studies uncover a crucial role for Olig2 in white matter astrocyte development and reveal divergent transcriptional requirements for, and developmental sources of, morphologically and spatially distinct astrocyte subpopulations.
The ability of animals to carry out their normal behavioral repertoires requires exquisitely precise matching between specific motoneuron subtypes and the muscles they innervate. However, the molecular mechanisms that regulate motoneuron subtype specification remain unclear. Here, we use individually identified zebrafish primary motoneurons to describe a novel role for Nkx6 and Islet1 proteins in the specification of vertebrate motoneuron subtypes. We show that zebrafish primary motoneurons express two related Nkx6 transcription factors. In the absence of both Nkx6 proteins, the CaP motoneuron subtype develops normally, whereas the MiP motoneuron subtype develops a more interneuron-like morphology. In the absence of Nkx6 function, MiPs exhibit normal early expression of islet1, which is required for motoneuron formation; however, they fail to maintain islet1 expression. Misexpression of islet1 RNA can compensate for loss of Nkx6 function, providing evidence that Islet1 acts downstream of Nkx6. We suggest that Nkx6 proteins regulate MiP development at least in part by maintaining the islet1 expression that is required both to promote the MiP subtype and to suppress interneuron development.

The authors manipulated emotion regulation strategies at encoding and administered explicit and implicit memory tests. In Experiment 1, participants used reappraisal to enhance and decrease the personal relevance of unpleasant and neutral pictures. In Experiment 2, decrease cues were replaced with suppress cues that directed participants to inhibit emotion-expressive behavior. Across experiments, using reappraisal to enhance the personal relevance of pictures improved free recall. By contrast, attempting to suppress emotional displays tended to impair recall, especially compared to the enhance condition. Using reappraisal to decrease the personal relevance of pictures had different effects depending on picture type. Paired with unpleasant pictures, the decrease cue tended to improve recall. Paired with neutral stimuli, the decrease cue tended to impair recall. Emotion regulation did not affect perceptual priming. Results highlight dissociable effects of emotion regulation on explicit and implicit memory, as well as dissociations between regulation strategies with respect to explicit memory.
The relationship between facial expression and gaze processing was investigated with the Garner selective attention paradigm. In Experiment 1, participants performed expression judgments without interference from gaze, but expression interfered with gaze judgments. Experiment 2 replicated these results across different emotions. In both experiments, expression judgments occurred faster than gaze judgments, suggesting that expression was processed before gaze could interfere. In Experiments 3 and 4, the difficulty of the emotion discrimination was increased in two different ways. In both cases, gaze interfered with emotion judgments and vice versa. Furthermore, increasing the difficulty of the emotion discrimination resulted in gaze and expression interactions. Results indicate that expression and gaze interactions are modulated by discriminability. Whereas expression generally interferes with gaze judgments, gaze direction modulates expression processing only when facial emotion is difficult to discriminate.
In the central nervous system, androgens can exert either protective or damage-promoting effects. For example, testosterone protects neurons against beta-amyloid toxicity, whereas in other studies, testosterone exacerbated stroke-induced lesion size. The mechanism underlying this duality of androgens is still unclear. Recently, our laboratory reported that androgens elicit opposite effects on the ERK/MAPK and Akt signaling pathways, depending on whether a membrane androgen receptor (AR) or intracellular AR was activated. By extension, we hypothesized that androgens may affect cell viability differently depending on which receptor is activated. Here, we found that dihydrotestosterone (DHT) protected primary cortical astrocytes from the metabolic and oxidative insult associated with iodoacetic acid-induced toxicity, whereas DHT-BSA, a cell impermeable analog of DHT that preferentially targets the membrane AR, suppressed Akt signaling, increased caspase 3/7 activity, and enhanced iodoacetic acid-induced cell death. Interestingly, DHT-BSA also blocked the protective effects of DHT and estradiol. Collectively, these data support the existence of two, potentially competing, pathways for androgens in a given cell or tissue that may provide insight into the controversy of whether androgen therapy is beneficial or detrimental.
Neuropeptide Y, a neuropeptide abundantly expressed in the brain, has been implicated in the regulation of the hypothalamo-pituitary-somatotropic axis and the hypothalamo-pituitary-gonadotropic axis. Elevated hypothalamic neuropeptide Y expression, such as that occurs during fasting, is known to inhibit both of these axes. However, it is not known which Y receptor(s) mediate these effects. Here we demonstrate, using Y receptor knockout mice, that Y2 and Y4 receptors are separately involved in the regulation of these axes. Fasting-induced inhibition of hypothalamic GHRH mRNA expression and reduction of circulating IGF-I levels were observed in wild-type and Y4(-/-) mice but not Y2(-/-) or Y2(-/-)Y4(-/-) mice. In contrast, fasting-induced reduction of GnRH expression in the medial preoptic area and testis testosterone content were abolished in the absence of Y4 receptors. Colocalization of Y2 receptors and GHRH in the arcuate nucleus (Arc) suggests that GHRH mRNA expression in this region might be directly regulated by Y2 receptors. Indeed, hypothalamic-specific deletion of Y2 receptors in conditional knockout mice prevented the fasting-induced reduction in Arc GHRH mRNA expression. On the other hand, fasting-induced decrease in GnRH mRNA expression in the medial preoptic area is more likely indirectly influenced by Y4 receptors because no Y4 receptors could be detected on GnRH neurons in this region. Together these data show that fasting inhibits the somatotropic axis via direct action on Y2 receptors in the Arc and indirectly inhibits the gonadotropic axis via Y4 receptors.
IGFs (IGF-I and IGF-II) are essential for development, and their bioactivities are tightly regulated by six related IGF-binding proteins (IGFBPs). IGFBP-5 is the most highly conserved binding protein and is expressed in several key developmental lineages as well as in multiple adult tissues including the mammary gland. To explore IGFBP-5 actions in vivo, we produced IGFBP-5 knockout (KO) mice. Whole-body growth, selected organ weights, and body composition were essentially normal in IGFBP-5 KO mice, presumably because of substantial compensation by remaining IGFBP family members. The IGFBP-5 KO mice also exhibited normal mammary gland development and were capable of nursing their pups. We then directly evaluated the proposed role of IGFBP-5 in apoptosis and remodeling of mammary gland during involution. We found that the process of involution after forced weaning was delayed in IGFBP-5 KO mice, with both the appearance of apoptotic cells and the reappearance of adipocytes retarded in mutant mice, compared with controls. We also determined the effects of IGFBP-5 deletion on mammary gland development in pubertal females after ovariectomy and stimulation with estradiol/progesterone. In this paradigm, IGFBP-5 KO mammary glands exhibited enhanced alveolar bud formation consistent with enhanced IGF-I action. These results demonstrate that IGFBP-5, although not essential for normal growth, is required for normal mammary gland involution and can regulate mammary gland morphogenesis in response to hormone stimulation.



Epilepsy and neurocardiogenic syncope share a final common pathway of loss of consciousness and consequent social disruption. We compared 52 patients with syncope, 96 with epilepsy and 100 controls. Epilepsy and syncope patients expressed significantly higher levels of anxiety and depression and reported significantly less good quality of life (QoL) compared with controls. There were no significant differences on any of the QoL parameters measured between the syncope and epilepsy patients. These findings suggest the main contributor to poor QoL in epilepsy may be the unpredictable loss of control that is the hallmark of the condition.
Since the discovery of Merkel cells by Friedrich S. Merkel in 1875, knowledge of their structure has increased with the progression of new technologies such as electron and laser microscopy, and immunohistochemical techniques. For most vertebrates, Merkel cells are located in the basal layer of the epidermis and characterized by dense-core granules that contain a variety of neuropeptides, plasma membrane spines and cytoskeletal filaments consisting of cytokeratins and desmosomes. The presence of the two latter structures would suggest that Merkel cells originate from the epidermis rather than from the neural crest, even though such a hypothesis is not unanimously accepted. The function of the Merkel cell is also very controversial. For a long time, it has been accepted that Merkel cells with associated nerve terminals act as mechanoreceptors although the transduction mechanism has not yet been elucidated. Merkel cells that do not make contact with nerve terminals have an endocrine function. The present review aims to shed new and comparative light on this field with an attempt to investigate the stimuli that Merkel cells are able to perceive.
Central pattern generators (CPGs) are networks underlying rhythmic motor behaviours and they are dynamically regulated by neuronal elements that are extrinsic or intrinsic to the rhythmogenic circuit. In the feeding system of the pond snail, Lymnaea stagnalis, the extrinsic slow oscillator (SO) interneuron controls the frequency of the feeding rhythm and the N3t (tonic) has a dual role; it is an intrinsic CPG interneuron, but it also suppresses CPG activity in the absence of food, acting as a decision-making element in the feeding circuit. The firing patterns of the SO and N3t neurons and their synaptic connections with the rest of the CPG are known, but how these regulate network function is not well understood. This was investigated by building a computer model of the feeding network based on a minimum number of cells (N1M, N2v and N3t) required to generate the three-phase motor rhythm together with the SO that was used to activate the system. The intrinsic properties of individual neurons were represented using two-compartment models containing currents of the Hodgkin-Huxley type. Manipulations of neuronal activity in the N3t and SO neurons in the model produced similar quantitative effects to food and electrical stimulation in the biological network indicating that the model is a useful tool for studying the dynamic properties of the feeding circuit. The model also predicted novel effects of electrical stimulation of two CPG interneurons (N1M and N2v). When tested experimentally, similar effects were found in the biological system providing further validation of our model.
The molecular mechanisms that regulate basal ganglia development are largely unknown. Eph receptor tyrosine kinases are potential participants in this process as they regulate development of other CNS regions and are expressed in basal ganglia nuclei, such as the substantia nigra (SN) and striatum. To address the role of Eph receptors in the development of these nuclei, we analysed anatomical changes in the SN and striatum of mice with null mutations for EphB1. These mice express beta-galactosidase as a marker for cells normally expressing EphB1. In situ hybridization data and a direct comparison of SN neurons expressing tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and/or the beta-gal marker for EphB1 revealed that EphB1 is not expressed in TH+ neurons of pars compacta (SNc), but is restricted to neurons in pars reticulata (SNr). Consistent with this, we find that EphB1 null mice exhibit a significant decrease in the volume and number of neurons (40% decrease) in SNr, whereas the volume and number of TH+ neurons in SNc is not significantly affected nor are there changes in the distribution of nigrostriatal dopamine neurons. Although EphB1 is expressed in the striatum, EphB1-/- mice exhibit no significant changes in striatal volume and TH fiber density, and have no obvious alterations in striatal patch/matrix organization. Behavioral evaluation of EphB1 null mice in an open-field environment revealed that these mice exhibited spontaneous locomotor hyperactivity. These results suggest that EphB1 is necessary for the proper formation of SNr, and that neuronal loss in SNr is associated with altered locomotor functions.
Depressive illness is associated with changes in amygdalar volume, and stressful life events are known to precipitate depressive episodes in this patient population. Stress affects amygdalar synaptic plasticity and several neurotransmitter systems have been implicated in stress-mediated changes in the brain, including the glutamatergic system. However, the role of the glutamatergic system in stress-mediated plasticity in the amygdala remains to be determined. Accordingly the current study examined the stress modulation of extracellular glutamate levels in the basolateral nucleus (BLA) and the central nucleus (CeA) of the amygdala by in vivo microdialysis. Acute stress increased extracellular glutamate levels in the BLA and CeA, although the dynamics of these stress-mediated changes were dramatically different in these amygdalar nuclei. Tetrodotoxin administration reduced basal, and completely eliminated stress-mediated increases in glutamate efflux in the amygdala, demonstrating that stress effects are dependent on local axonal depolarization. Moreover, stress-mediated increases in glutamate efflux in the BLA were inhibited by the antidepressant tianeptine but not by the selective serotonin-reuptake inhibitor fluoxetine. Collectively, these data demonstrate that stress-induced modulation of glutamate neurochemistry reflects a fundamental pathological change that may contribute to the aetiology and progression of depressive illness, and suggest that some antidepressants such as tianeptine may elicit their clinical effects by modulation of glutamatergic neurotransmission.
The master circadian clock in mammals, located in the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) of the hypothalamus, is entrained by light and behavioural stimulation. In addition, the SCN can be reset by dark pulses in nocturnal rodents under constant light conditions. Here, the shifting effects of a dark pulse on the SCN clock were detailed at both a behavioural and molecular level in a nocturnal rodent (Syrian hamster), and were compared to those of a diurnal rodent (Arvicanthis ansorgei). Four-hour dark pulses led to phase advances in the circadian rhythm of locomotor activity from subjective midday to dusk in hamsters, but from subjective dusk to midnight in Arvicanthis. Moreover, dark pulses had no resetting effect during the middle of the subjective night in hamsters, while such a dead shifting zone occurred during most of the subjective day in Arvicanthis. The behavioural phase advances in both hamsters and Arvicanthis were most often accompanied by marked downregulation of the clock genes Per1 and/or Per2 in the SCN, and also by changes in the transforming growth factor-alpha expression, a neuropeptide that suppresses daytime activity in nocturnal mammals. Despite that both hamsters and Arvicanthis showed dark-induced phase advances at circadian time-12, Per1 gene and its protein PER1 were downregulated in Arvicanthis but not in hamsters. Altogether these results show that dark resetting of the SCN is always associated with downregulation of Per1 and/or Per2 expression, and mostly occurs during resting. Thus, the circadian window of sensitivity to dark differs between nocturnal and diurnal rodents.
The transcription factor DeltaFosB (Delta FosB) accumulates in a region-specific manner in the brain during chronic exposure to stress, drugs of abuse or other chronic stimuli. Once induced, DeltaFosB persists in the brain for at least several weeks following cessation of the chronic stimulus. The biochemical basis of the persistent expression of DeltaFosB has remained unknown. Here, we show that the FosB C-terminus, absent in DeltaFosB as a result of alternative splicing, contains two degron domains. Pulse-chase experiments of C-terminal truncation mutants of full-length FosB indicate that removal of its most C-terminal degron increases its half-life approximately fourfold, and prevents its proteasome-mediated degradation and ubiquitylation, properties similar to DeltaFosB. In addition, removal of a second degron domain, which generates DeltaFosB, further stabilizes FosB approximately twofold, but in a proteasome-independent manner. These data indicate that alternative splicing specifically removes two destabilizing elements from FosB in order to generate a longer-lived transcription factor, DeltaFosB, in response to chronic perturbations to the brain.
Phagocytosis is defined as the ingestion of particulates over 0.5 microm in diameter and is associated with cells of the immune system such as macrophages or monocytes. Neurones are not generally recognized to be phagocytic. Using light, confocal, time-lapse and electron microscopy, we carried out a wide range of in-vitro and in-vivo experiments to examine the phagocytic capacity of different neuronal cell types. We demonstrated phagocytosis of material by neurones, including cell debris and synthetic particles up to 2.8 microm in diameter. We showed phagocytosis in different neuronal types, and demonstrated that debris can be transported from neurite extremities to cell bodies and persist within neurones. Flow cytometry analysis demonstrated the lack of certain complement receptors on neurones but the presence of others, including integrin receptors known to mediate macrophage phagocytosis, indicating that a restricted set of phagocytosis receptors may mediate this process. Neuronal phagocytosis occurs in vitro and in vivo, and we propose that this is a more widespread and significant process than previously recognized. Neuronal phagocytosis may explain certain inclusions in neurones during disease, cell-to-cell spread of disease, neuronal death during disease progression and provide a potential mechanism for therapeutic intervention through the delivery of particulate drug carriers.
The cerebellum, amygdala and perirhinal cortex are involved in fear learning but the different roles that these three structures play in aversive learning are not well defined. Here we show that in adult rats amygdala or cerebellar vermis blockade causes amnesia when performed immediately, but not 1 h, after the recall of fear memories. Thus, the cerebellum, as well as the amygdala, influences long-term fear memories. These effects are long lasting, as they do not recover over time, even after a reminder shock administration. However, all of the subjects were able to form new fear memories in the absence of inactivation. By increasing the strength of conditioning, we observed that stronger fear memories are affected by the combined but not independent amygdala and cerebellar blockade. These results demonstrate that the cerebellum supports the memory processes even in the absence of a crucial site for emotions like the amygdala. Furthermore, they suggest that the amygdala is only one of the neural sites underlying long-term fear memories. Finally, the inactivation of the perirhinal cortex never alters retrieved fear traces, showing important differences between the amygdala, cerebellum and perirhinal cortex in emotional memories.
Little is known of the transcription factors expressed by adult neural progenitors produced in the hippocampal neurogenic niche. Here, we study the expression of the proneural basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factor Neurogenin-2 (Ngn2) in the adult hippocampus. We have characterized the pattern of expression of Ngn2 in the adult hippocampus using immunostaining for Ngn2 protein and a Ngn2-green fluorescent protein (GFP) reporter mouse strain. A significant proportion of Ngn2-expressing cells were mitotically active. Ngn2-GFP expression was restricted to the subgranular zone and declined with age. Neuronal markers were used to determine the phenotype of Ngn2-expressing cells. The vast majority of Ngn2-GFP-positive cells expressed the immature neuronal markers, doublecortin (DCX) and polysialic acid-neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM). Finally, the pattern of Ngn2 expression was studied following seizure induction. Our data show an increase in neurogenesis, detected in these animals by bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) and DCX staining that was contemporaneous with a marked increase in Ngn2-GFP-expression. Taken together, our results show that Ngn2-GFP represents a specific marker for neurogenesis and its modulation in the adult hippocampus. Ngn2 transient expression in proliferating neuronal progenitors supports the idea that it plays a significant role in adult neurogenesis.
In the rat auditory cortex, ventral (VA) and posterodorsal (PD) areas are the two major auditory fields that receive thalamic afferents from the dorsal division of the medial geniculate body (MGD). VA and PD are presumed to serve distinct functions in tandem as the pair of major cortical recipients of extralemniscal thalamic inputs. To deduce the functional significance of VA, efferent connections of VA were examined with the anterograde tracer biocytin. VA lies primarily in the ventral margin of area Te1 and represents frequencies primarily &lt; 15 kHz [Donishi, T., Kimura, A., Okamoto, K. &amp; Tamai, Y. (2006) Neuroscience, 141, 1553-1567.] Biocytin was iontophoretically injected into cortical regions which were defined as VA based on histological location, auditory response and thalamocortical connectivity. Anterograde labelling revealed two important aspects of cortical projections. First, VA sent a projection to a well-confined region in the caudal end of the insular cortex (Ins) pivotal for fear memory formation during aversive conditioning. Second, VA sent parallel projections to cortical regions that probably comprise the other nonprimary auditory fields, including PD. The results suggest that VA relays auditory input from the MGD to the Ins for affective memory formation and at the same time dispatches the auditory signal, which may represent emotional content, to the remaining nonprimary auditory fields. PD is assumed to play a pivotal role in auditory spatial processing for directed attention (Kimura et al., 2004). As the counterpart of PD, VA is assumed to give rise to another major stream of cortical information processing, most probably related to emotion.
It has recently been shown that electrical stimulation in normal extracellular fluid induces seizure-like afterdischarge activity that is always preceded by GABA-dependent slow depolarization. These afterdischarge responses are synchronous among mature hippocampal neurons and driven by excitatory GABAergic input. However, the differences in the mechanisms whereby the GABAergic signals in pyramidal cells and interneurons are transiently converted from hyperpolarizing to depolarizing (and even excitatory) have remained unclear. To clarify the network mechanisms underlying this rapid GABA conversion that induces afterdischarges, we examined the temporal changes in GABAergic responses in pyramidal cells and/or interneurons of the rat hippocampal CA1 area in vitro. The extents of slow depolarization and GABA conversion were much larger in the pyramidal cell group than in any group of interneurons. Besides GABA(A) receptor activation, neuronal excitation by ionotropic glutamate receptors enhanced GABA conversion in the pyramidal cells and consequent induction of afterdischarge. The slow depolarization was confirmed to consist of two distinct phases; an early phase that depended primarily on GABA(A)-mediated postsynaptic Cl- accumulation, and a late phase that depended on extracellular K+ accumulation, both of which were enhanced by glutamatergic neuron excitation. Moreover, extracellular K+ accumulation augmented each oscillatory response of the afterdischarge, probably by further Cl- accumulation through K+-coupled Cl- transporters. Our findings suggest that the GABA reversal potential may be elevated above their spike threshold predominantly in the pyramidal cells by biphasic Cl- intrusion during the slow depolarization in GABA- and glutamate-dependent fashion, leading to the initiation of seizure-like epileptiform activity.

The aim of our study is to estimate the prevalence of migraine and tension-type headaches in 7-12-year-old school children from Belgrade. The sample was drawn from a total of 1259 school children from randomly selected primary schools. The diagnosis was made on the basis of a clinical interview combined with the neurological examination. The prevalence of migraine increases with age from 0.5% at the age of seven, to 6.8% at the age of 12. Female to male ratio inverts with age: males predominate at age 7-9, but females predominate at age 10-12. The estimated prevalence of tension-type headache increases with age from 0.5% in 7-year olds to 2.4% in 12-year olds. Statistically, the onset of migraine occurs significantly earlier than that of tension-type headache. Migraine and tension-type headache are frequent headache types and have different demographic characteristics among children.

Smooth pursuit eye movements function to stabilize the retinal image of small moving targets. In order for those targets to be foveated, however, they must first be &quot;captured&quot; by an attentional mechanism which then interacts with the oculomotor system. Cortical sites involved with producing smooth pursuit overlap with areas known to be involved in directing visuospatial attention, particularly the posterior parietal cortex (PPC). The goal of the current study was to characterize the contributions made by the left and right posterior parietal cortices (lPPC and rPPC) to the interaction between visuospatial attention and the generation of smooth pursuit eye movements. Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) was used to temporarily disrupt each area at different times around target motion onset in a pursuit task that explicitly manipulated the covert orienting of attention. TMS over the lPPC, rPPC and a control site (the vertex) evoked a similar pattern of results, in that the earlier TMS delivery times caused a reduced pursuit latency compared to baseline measures, while TMS immediately prior to target motion onset resulted in latencies slower than baseline. In addition, however, TMS over the lPPC and rPPC (but not the vertex) preferentially influenced the generation of contralateral pursuit, with the lPPC doing so in a relatively time-independent manner, and the rPPC doing so in a time-dependent manner. This pattern of results implies that both the left and right PPC are directly involved in the interaction between attention and smooth pursuit preparation.
In orthopaedic shoulder instability, muscle activity (EMG) is altered during unconstrained discrete arm movement tasks (e.g. elevation against a load). These findings have been ascribed to deficits in afferent feedback and neural control with glenohumeral instabilities resulting from orthopaedic injury. However, the integrity of neural control during shoulder movements in those with unstable shoulders is unclear. It is not known if there are altered EMG patterns during rhythmic arm movement or during discrete tasks involving no load, as would be experienced in many arm motions performed in daily living. The primary objective of this study was to evaluate neural control of arm movements between those with unstable shoulders and control participants, within a constrained arm movement paradigm involving both rhythmic arm cycling and discrete reaching. To achieve this objective, we determined if the amplitude and timing of EMG related to the movement pattern (background EMG) was significantly different between groups. Cutaneous reflexes were used to simulate a perturbation to the upper limb that would typically evoke a coordinated response. In the elevation phase of the movement path for anterior and posterior deltoid, upper trapezius, infraspinatus and serratus anterior, background EMG during rhythmic arm cycling was significantly (24%, p &lt; 0.05) larger in unstable shoulders than in controls. No differences were found in background EMG between the groups during the discrete task. Significant differences (p &lt; 0.05) were also noted in cutaneous reflexes between groups for both the rhythmic and discrete tasks with the reflex amplitudes being either increased or reduced in unstable shoulders as compared to controls. The differences in the background EMG and the cutaneous reflexes patterns in those with shoulder instabilities suggest that neural control is altered during rhythmic movement.
It is known that people misperceive scenes they see during rapid eye movements called saccades. It has been suggested that some of these misperceptions could be an artifact of neurophysiological processes related to the internal remapping of spatial coordinates during saccades. Alternatively, we have recently suggested, based on a computational model, that transsaccadic misperceptions result from optimal inference. As one of the properties of the model, sudden object displacements that occur in sync with a saccade should be perceived as contracted in a non-linear fashion. To explore this model property, here we use computer simulations and psychophysical methods first to test how robust the model is to close-to-optimal approximations and second to test two model predictions: (a) contracted transsaccadic perception should be dimension-specific with more contraction for jumps parallel to the saccade than orthogonal to it, and (b) contraction should rise as a function of visuomotor noise. Our results are consistent with these predictions. They support the idea that human transsaccadic integration is governed by close-to-optimal inference.
Rhythmic arm cycling significantly suppresses Hoffmann (H-) reflex amplitude in Soleus muscles of stationary legs. The specific parameters of arm cycling contributing to this suppression, however, are unknown. Between the arms or legs, movement results in suppression of the H-reflex that is specifically related to the phase of movement and the locus of limb movement. We speculated that the effects of arm movement features on H-reflexes in the leg would be similar and hypothesized that the Soleus H-reflex suppression evoked by arm movement would therefore be specifically related to: (1) phase of the movement; (2) the locus of the movement (i.e., ipsilateral or contralateral arm); (3) range of arm motion; and (4) frequency of arm cycling. Participants performed bilateral arm cycling at 1 and 2 Hz with short and long-crank lengths. Ipsilateral and contralateral arm cycling was also performed at 1 Hz with a long-crank length. Soleus H-reflexes were evoked at four equidistant phases and comparisons were made while maintaining similar evoked motor waves and Soleus activation. Our results show that comparable suppressive effects were seen at all phases of the arm movement: there was no phase-dependence. Further, bilateral or unilateral (whether ipsi- or contralateral arm) cycling yielded equivalent suppression of the H-reflex amplitude. Cycling at 2 Hz resulted in a significantly larger suppression than with 1 Hz cycling. We conclude that a general, rather than a specific, signal related to the command to produce rhythmic arm muscle activity mediates the suppression of Soleus H-reflex during arm cycling.
The putative beneficial role of an early decompression of injured CNS tissue following trauma remains controversial. In this study, we approach this scientific query using a standardized injury of the optic nerve in adult rats. Adult Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to a standardized optic nerve constriction injury by applying a loose ligature around the nerve for 5 min, 1, 6 or 24 h. All animals were sacrificed at 28 dpi. Viable axons distal to the injury were quantified using semithin sections, and regenerative fibers were studied using antisera to neurofilament and GAP43. Axonal degeneration and glial scar development were analyzed using Fluoro-Jade staining and anti-GFAP, respectively. Visual function was studied with visual evoked potentials (VEP). No significant differences were observed between 1 and 6 h of optic nerve compression. However, the number of viable axons analyzed with neurofilament and on semithin sections, decreased significantly between 6 and 24 h, paralleled by an increase in Fluoro-Jade labeled axonal debris (P &lt; 0.001). GFAP-IR density was significantly higher (P &lt; 0.001) in the 24 h compression group in comparison to 6 h. VEP showed preserved, but impaired visual function in animals subjected to compression up to 6 h, compared to an abolished cortical response at 24 h. Regenerative GAP43-positive sprouts were occasionally found distal to the lesion in animals subjected to compression up to 6 h, but not at 24 h. These findings suggest that early optic nerve decompression within hours after the initial trauma is beneficial for functional outcome.
ZO-2 is a tight junction (TJ) protein that shuttles between the plasma membrane and the nucleus. ZO-2 contains several protein binding sites that allow it to function as a scaffold that clusters integral, adaptor and signaling proteins. To gain insight into the role of ZO-2 in epithelial cells, ZO-2 was silenced in MDCK cells with small interference RNA (siRNA). ZO-2 silencing triggered: (A) changes in the gate function of the TJ, determined by an increase in dextran flow through the paracellular route of mature monolayers and achievement of lower transepithelial electrical resistance values upon TJ de novo formation; (B) changes in the fence function of the TJ manifested by a non-polarized distribution of E-cadherin on the plasma membrane; (C) altered expression of TJ and adherens junction proteins, determined by a decreased amount of occludin and E-cadherin in mature monolayers and a delayed arrival to the plasma membrane of ZO-1, occludin and E-cadherin during a calcium switch assay; and (D) an atypical monolayer architecture characterized by the appearance of widened intercellular spaces, multistratification of regions in the culture and an altered pattern of actin at the cellular borders.
In response to injury, the adult mammalian retina shows signs of structural remodeling, possibly in an attempt to preserve or regain some of its functional neural connections. In order to study the mechanisms involved in injury-induced plasticity, we have studied changes in growth associated protein 43 (GAP-43) after retinal ischemia/reperfusion in the rat. GAP-43 is a marker for neuronal remodeling and is involved in synapse formation. Ischemic injury of the rat retina was induced by 60 min of ischemia followed by reperfusion times varying from 2h up to 4 weeks. GAP-43 mRNA levels were significantly increased between 12h and 72 h reperfusion with a peak around 24h. GAP-43 specific antibodies showed that the total amount of GAP-43 labeling in the inner plexiform layer was diminished after 12h of reperfusion by approximately 35% and remained at this level up to 1 week postischemia despite the reduction in thickness of this layer during this period resulting from the ischemia-induced cell loss. At 2 and 4 weeks reperfusion, the amount of labeling was reduced by 70%, simultaneously with a decrease of GAP-43 transcript level. Between 72 h up to 2 weeks postischemia, the induction of intense GAP-43 labeling was observed in NeuN- and beta-tubulin-positive ganglion cell somata and in horizontally and vertically oriented processes in the inner plexiform layer. Ischemia also induced GAP-43 expression in some GFAP-positive Mller cells. Double-labeling showed that in controls and after ischemia GAP-43 was expressed by some amacrine cells of the glycinergic (glycine transporter 1), calretinin-positive, and dopaminergic (tyrosine hydroxylase) subpopulations. No increase of GAP-43 expression levels was found in these amacrine cells. The results demonstrate that ganglion cells show an elevated expression of GAP-43 after ischemia-inflicted damage. These findings suggest a temporal window during which ganglion cells may remodel their neuronal network in the damaged retina.
A history of depression is a risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD), suggesting the possibility that antidepressants administered prophylactically might retard the disease process and preserve cognitive function. Here we report that pre-symptomatic treatment with the antidepressant paroxetine attenuates the disease process and improves cognitive performance in the 3xTgAD mouse model of AD. Five-month-old male and female 3xTgAD and non-transgenic mice were administered either paroxetine or saline daily for 5 months. Open-field activity was tested in 7-month-old mice and performance in passive avoidance and Morris swim tasks were evaluated at 10 months. 3xTgAD mice exhibited reduced exploratory activity, increased transfer latency in the passive avoidance test and impaired performance in the Morris spatial navigation task compared to nontransgenic control mice. Paroxetine treatment ameliorated the spatial navigation deficit in 3xTgAD male and female mice, without affecting swim speed or distance traveled, suggesting a preservation of cognitive function. Levels of amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) and numbers of Abeta immunoreactive neurons were significantly reduced in the hippocampus of male and female paroxetine-treated 3xTgAD mice compared to saline-treated 3xTgAD mice. Female 3xTgAD mice exhibited significantly less tau pathology in the hippocampus and amygdala compared to male 3xTgAD mice, and paroxetine lessened tau pathology in male 3xTgAD mice. The ability of a safe and effective antidepressant to suppress neuropathological changes and improve cognitive performance in a mouse model suggests that such drugs administered prophylactically might retard the development of AD in humans.
Whether increased levels of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) correspond to a role in the pathogenesis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) needs to be determined and it is actively being pursued. Here we present evidence suggesting that MMP-9 contributes to the motor neuron cell death in ALS. We examined the role of MMP-9 in a mouse model of familial ALS and found that lack of MMP-9 increased survival (31%) in G93A SOD1 mice. Also, MMP-9 deficiency in G93A mice significantly attenuated neuronal loss, and reduced neuronal TNF-alpha and FasL immunoreactivities in the lumbar spinal cord. These findings suggest that MMP-9 is an important player in the pathogenesis of ALS. Our data suggest that the mechanism for MMP-9 neurotoxicity in ALS may be by upregulating neuronal TNF-alpha and FasL expression and activation. This study provides new mechanism and suggests that MMP inhibitors may offer a new therapeutic strategy for ALS.
Excessive synchronization of neuronal activity at around 20 Hz is a common finding in the basal ganglia of patients with untreated Parkinson's disease (PD). Correlative evidence suggests, but does not prove, that this spontaneous activity may contribute to slowness of movement in this condition. Here we investigate whether externally imposed synchronization through direct stimulation of the region of the subthalamic nucleus at 20 Hz can slow motor performance in a simple unimanual tapping task and whether this effect is frequency selective. Tapping rates were recorded on 42 sides in 22 patients with PD after overnight withdrawal of medication. Tapping was performed without stimulation and during bilateral stimulation at 20 Hz, 50 Hz and 130 Hz. We found that tapping rates were slowed by 8.2+/-3.2% (p=0.014) during 20-Hz stimulation in subjects with relatively preserved baseline function in the task. This effect was frequency selective. The current data provide proof of the principle that excessive beta synchrony within the basal ganglia-cortical loop may contribute to the slowing of movements in Parkinson's disease.
During the development of the central nervous system, neurons pass through critical periods or periods of vulnerability. We explored periods of vulnerability for cranial nerve nuclei by determining the effects of acute exposure to ethanol during development on the number of neurons in mature brainstem. Long-Evans rats were injected with 2.9 g ethanol/kg body weight on one day between gestational day (G) 7 and G13, inclusive. Two hours later, animals received a second injection of 1.45 g/kg. Controls were injected with equivalent volumes of saline. Brainstems of 31-day-old offspring were cryosectioned and stained with cresyl violet. Stereological methods were used to determine the volume and numerical density of neurons in three trigeminal sensory nuclei (the principal sensory nucleus of the trigeminal nerve, and the oral and interpolar subnuclei of the spinal trigeminal nuclear complex) and three motor nuclei (the trigeminal, facial, and hypoglossal nuclei). The numbers of neurons in most nuclei were lower following early (on G7 and/or G8) or later (on G12 and/or G13) exposure. Only the trigeminal interpolar nucleus was affected by neither early nor late ethanol exposure. Thus, prenatal exposure to ethanol affects the number of neurons in brainstem nuclei in a time-dependent manner. Windows of vulnerability coincide with gastrulation (G7/G8) and the period of neuronal generation (G12/G13).
In mammals, the osmolality of the extracellular fluid is maintained near a predetermined set-point through a negative feedback regulation of thirst, diuresis, salt appetite and natriuresis. This homeostatic control is believed to be mediated by osmosensory neurones which synaptically regulate the electrical activity of command neurones that mediate each of these osmoregulatory effector responses. Our present understanding of the molecular, cellular and network basis that underlies the central control of osmoregulation is largely derived from studies on primary osmosensory neurones in the organum vasculosum lamina terminalis (OVLT) and effector neurones in the supraoptic nucleus (SON), which release hormones that regulate diuresis and natriuresis. Primary osmosensory neurones in the OVLT exhibit changes in action potential firing rate that vary in proportion with ECF osmolality. This effect results from the intrinsic depolarizing receptor potential which these cells generate via a molecular transduction complex that may comprise various members of the transient receptor potential vanilloid (TRPV) family of cation channel proteins, notably TRPV1 and TRPV4. Osmotically evoked changes in the firing rate of OVLT neurones then regulate the electrical activity of downstream neurones in the SON through graded changes in glutamate release.
In signal transduction of metazoan cells, ion channels of the family of transient receptor potential (TRP) have been identified to respond to diverse external and internal stimuli, amongst them osmotic stimuli. This report highlights findings pertaining to the TRPV subfamily, focusing on mammalian members. Of the six mammalian TRPV channels, TRPV1, 2 and 4 were demonstrated to function in transduction of osmotic stimuli. TRPV channels have been found to function in cellular as well as systemic osmotic homeostasis. In a striking example of evolutionary conservation of function, mammalian TRPV4 has been found to rescue osmosensory deficits of the TRPV mutant strain osm-9 in Caenorhabditis elegans, despite not more than 26% orthology of the respective proteins.
Neuropathic pain occurs as a result of some form of injury to the nervous system. Although the basis of the disease remains to be fully elucidated, numerous studies have suggested a major role for ion channels in the pathogenesis of neuropathic pain. As Na+ channels play a fundamental role in not only the generation but also in the conduction of an action potential, they have received considerable attention in the aetiology of pain sensation and have become important pharmacological targets. In this review, the authors discuss the importance of specific Na+ channel isoforms in the pathophysiology of neuropathic pain and the present use of Na+ channel antagonists in the treatment of neuropathic pain.
Psychosis may be seen with several movement disorders. As pharmacological treatments can sometimes worsen movement disorders, psychosis in these situations can be complex for clinicians to manage. This review covers the management of psychosis in three different movement disorders: Parkinson's disease, dementia with Lewy bodies and Huntington's disease.
Sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) acts as an extracellular ligand for a family of G-protein coupled receptors that are crucial in cell migration. S1P5 is exclusively expressed in oligodendrocytes and oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs), which migrate considerable distances during brain development. The current studies suggest a physiological role for S1P and S1P5 in regulation of OPC migration. mRNA expression levels of S1P2 and S1P5 are comparable in OPCs, but S1P binding specifically to the S1P5 receptor blocked OPC migration (IC50=29 nM). Thus, knocking down S1P5 using siRNA prevented the S1P-induced decrease in OPC migration, whereas knocking down S1P2 did not have any effect. S1P-induced modulation of OPC migration was insensitive to pertussis toxin, suggesting that S1P5-initiated signaling is not mediated by the G alpha(i)-protein coupled pathway. Furthermore, S1P5 appears to engage the G alpha(12/13) protein coupled Rho/ROCK signaling pathway to impede OPC migration. To modulate OPC motility, extracellular S1P could be derived from the export of intracellular S1P generated in response to glutamate treatment of OPCs. These studies suggest that S1P could be a part of the neuron-oligodendroglial communication network regulating OPC migration and may provide directional guidance cues for migrating OPCs in the developing brain.
Persistent primitive hypoglossal artery (PPHA) is a recognised, albeit infrequent, intracranial vascular anomaly usually detected during angiography. Its presence is associated with an increased incidence of aneurysm, arteriovenous malformation and ischaemic stroke. A unique case of PHHA discovered during autopsy is described. Additionally, the significance of PPHA in neuroscience is discussed in detail.
More than a century after it was first suggested that behaviors such as speech production and perception might be lateralized in the human brain, many basic questions still remain regarding the nature and basis of right-left functional asymmetries (FAs). The lack of answers to what seem to be a straightforward set of questions may be due to two methodological aspects of laterality research which have hampered work in brain and behavior in general and lateralities in particular. The first is the absence of a biologically based, psychophysically-defined taxonomy of stimulus/gesture features for use in tests of laterality. As a result, many researchers resort to cognitive constructs for describing the bases of asymmetries, a decision which has created a gulf separating experimental as well as theoretical work on asymmetries from the biological realities of sensory and motor processing, within the brain as well as at the body periphery. The second obstacle is the lack of a valid taxonomy for individuals. Individual differences are ubiquitous in human subjects as well as non-human animals, yet are typically averaged away as noise rather than respected as possible sources of information. Studies of asymmetry often reveal dramatic individual differences in both the direction and magnitude of asymmetries, yet, when subjected to averaging and group statistics, these often result in insignificant results. This paper reviews two taxonomies which may address some of these problems: the EPIC Model of Functional Asymmetries, and the related Trimodal Model of Brain Organization. The EPIC model classifies functional asymmetries according to four domains (Extrapersonal space, Peripersonal space, Intrapersonal space, and Coordination) and assigns responsibility for these four domains differentially to the two cerebral hemispheres--the right side is seen as &quot;polypotent,&quot; responsible for processing in three of the domains, while the left side focuses on processing in peripersonal space. The EPIC model also proposes a &quot;periodic chart&quot; of complementary stimulus/gesture features which distinguish extrapersonal vs. peripersonal space, with analogues in all four somatic systems--visual, auditory, somatosensory, and motor. The Trimodal model is based on research in psychoimmunoneuroendocrinology, and posits a continuum of individual differences created as a result of prenatal exposure to testosterone, and articulated in terms of access to the skills of the four EPIC domains. These two models together may yield guidelines not only for designing stimulus/task combinations but also for addressing individual differences.
Initially, the tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) aroused major interest due to its preferential toxic effect against malignant cells. However, subsequent studies revealed that the TRAIL system, comprising the family of signal-mediating and decoy TRAIL receptors, (i) can also induce death of non-transformed cells, (ii) has potent immunoregulatory functions, and (iii) exhibits a unique expression pattern in the central nervous system (CNS). Indeed, TRAIL is not expressed within the human brain, while apoptosis-inducing TRAIL receptors are found differently distributed on neurons, oligodendrocytes, and astrocytes. These findings rule out a major contribution of TRAIL to the so-called &quot;immune privilege&quot; of the brain, in which local inflammation is limited, although such a role has previously been suggested for the CD95 (Fas) ligand belonging to the same TNF/nerve growth factor (NGF) family. If, under pathologic circumstances, the CNS is inflamed, immune cells such as macrophages and T cells upregulate TRAIL upon activation and use this death ligand as a weapon, not only against tumor cells but also against neurons and oligodendrocytes within the inflamed CNS. In parallel, a profound immunoregulatory impact of TRAIL on activation and proliferation of encephalitogenic T cells outside the brain has also been shown. Thus, these studies have uncovered a complex action of TRAIL on CNS pathology, indicating the possible value of targeted manipulation of the TRAIL system for the treatment of inflammatory neurodegenerative diseases such as multiple sclerosis.
Behaviorally plastic species are more likely to invade and endure in new areas, and behaviorally plastic individuals tend to be attracted to novelty (i.e., neophilic). Furthermore, neophilic behaviors are often influenced by glucocorticoids. Thus in addition to environmental conditions and vicariant events, behavioral plasticity and its endocrinological mediators may influence the extent of vertebrate geographic distributions. Some species of mice in the genus, Peromyscus, occupy most of North America whereas others are restricted to small areas. We predicted that one widespread species (Peromyscus maniculatus) would interact more with novel objects, more readily explore novel environments, and possess hypo-responsive HPA axes compared to species with small ranges. Our hypothesis was not supported, but given the small number of species in this study and the high anxiety-like behavior in captive P. maniculatus, it is premature to reject the hypothesis that behavioral flexibility affects geographic distribution in Peromyscus. Indeed, behavioral and HPA axis variation was complementary among species, which is opposite of the pattern typically detected within species, suggesting that future studies of glucocorticoid mediation of neotic and anxiety-like behaviors in Peromyscus would be valuable.
Inflammation in the peripheral nervous system (PNS) is one of the characteristics of virus-induced peripheral neuropathy. In this inflammatory response, Schwann cells are actively involved. Previously, toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3) was reported as a receptor for double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) that induces antiviral and inflammatory responses in cells of the innate immune system. In this study, we investigated the expression and putative role of TLR3 in Schwann cells. TLR3 was constitutively expressed in Schwann cells. Stimulation with polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid, a synthetic dsRNA analogue, induced the expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) gene in Schwann cells. Studies on the intracellular signal transduction pathways using iSC, an immortalized Schwann cell line, revealed that dsRNA induces the activation of NF-kappaB, p38, and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK). The activation of NF-kappaB, p38, JNK, and dsRNA-dependent protein kinase is required for dsRNA-mediated iNOS gene expression. However, the activation of PI3 kinase and GSK-3beta inhibited iNOS gene induction, a process mediated by their inhibitory effects on NF-kappaB and p38 activation. dsRNA-induced NO production caused neuronal cell death in cultured dorsal root ganglion. Finally, the introduction of dsRNA into the rat sciatic nerve induced iNOS gene expression and peripheral nerve demyelination in vivo. Taken together, these data suggest that viral RNA may induce inflammatory Schwann cell activation via TLR3 and peripheral nerve damage in the PNS.
Neurofibromatosis 1 (NF1) is a common genetic disease that predisposes patients to peripheral nerve tumors and central nervous system (CNS) abnormalities including low-grade astrocytomas and cognitive disabilities. Using mice with glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-targeted Nf1 loss (Nf1(GFAP)CKO mice), we found that Nf1(-/-) astrocytes proliferate faster and are more invasive than wild-type astrocytes. In light of our previous finding that aberrant expression of the MET receptor tyrosine kinase contributes to the invasiveness of human NF1-associated malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors, we sought to determine whether MET expression is aberrant in the brains of Nf1 mutant mice. We found that Nf1(-/-) astrocytes express slightly more MET than wild-type cells in vitro, but do not express elevated MET in situ. However, fiber tracts containing myelinated axons in the hippocampus, midbrain, cerebral cortex, and cerebellum express higher than normal levels of MET in older (&gt; or =6 months) Nf1(GFAP)CKO mice. Both Nf1(GFAP)CKO and wild-type astrocytes induced MET expression in neurites of wild-type hippocampal neurons in vitro, suggesting that astrocyte-derived signals may induce MET in Nf1 mutant mice. Because the Nf1 gene product functions as a RAS GTPase, we examined MET expression in the brains of mice with GFAP-targeted constitutively active forms of RAS. MET was elevated in axonal fiber tracts in mice with active K-RAS but not H-RAS. Collectively, these data suggest that loss of Nf1 in either astrocytes or GFAP(+) neural progenitor cells results in increased axonal MET expression, which may contribute to the CNS abnormalities in children and adults with NF1.
Myelin transcription factor 1 (Myt1) is a zinc-finger DNA binding protein that influences developing oligodendrocyte progenitor (OP) cell proliferation, differentiation, and myelin gene transcription in vitro. The potential of Myt1 to play a role in OP responses leading to remyelination was examined using murine hepatitis virus strain A59 (MHV) to induce spinal cord demyelination and potential relevance to human pathology was evaluated in multiple sclerosis (MS) lesions. In MHV-infected mice, the density of Myt1 expressing cells markedly increased in lesioned areas of spinal cord white matter. Myt1 expressing cells proliferated most extensively during active demyelination and subsequently accumulated to maximal levels during early remyelination. Cells with nuclear Myt1 immunoreactivity were mainly OP cells, identified by co-localization with platelet-derived growth factor alpha receptor, with additional phenotypes being either oligodendrocytes or neural stem cells, identified by CC1 antigen and Musashi1, respectively. The density of OP cells expressing Myt1 was significantly increased in white matter of MHV-infected mice during demyelination and early remyelination then as remyelination advanced the values returned to levels comparable to PBS-injected control mice. In MHV lesions, Myt1 was not expressed in astrocytes, lymphocytes, or macrophage/microglial cells. MS lesions demonstrated increased Myt1 expression in both the periplaque white matter adjacent to lesions and within early remyelinating lesions. These results suggesta potential role for Myt1 in the regeneration of oligodendrocyte lineage cells in response to demyelination.
Oligodendrocyte (OL) loss and axon demyelination occur after spinal cord injury (SCI). OLs may be replaced, however, by proliferating NG2+ progenitor cells. Indeed, new OLs have been noted in ventral white matter after SCI. Since tissue adjacent to lesion cavities is exposed to different mediators compared with outlying spared tissue, the authors used a rat SCI model to compare NG2 cell proliferation and OL genesis adjacent to lesion cavities with that in spared tissue closer to meninges. NG2 cells proliferated throughout the first week postinjury and accumulated along lesion borders, especially within gray matter. By 3 days postinjury (dpi), new OLs were detected throughout the cross-sections; between 4 and 7 dpi, however, oligogenesis was restricted to lesion borders. New OLs derived from cells proliferating during 1-7 dpi increased dramatically by 14 dpi; most were located along lesion borders and in spared gray matter. Oligogenesis continued along lesion borders during the second week postinjury. Overall OL numbers were reduced at 3 dpi in spared tissue, but rebounded to normal levels by 14 dpi. Surprisingly, lesion borders maintained normal OL numbers at 3 dpi, which then rose to exceed preinjury levels at 7 and 14 dpi. These results indicate that oligogenesis is protracted after SCI and leads to increased OL numbers. Most new OLs are formed in regions of greatest NG2 cell proliferation. Thus, the adult spinal cord spontaneously develops a dynamic gliogenic zone along lesion borders.
The anti-inflammatory, antiangiogenic, anticoagulant, and antiadhesive properties of fucoidans obtained from nine species of brown algae were studied in order to examine the influence of fucoidan origin and composition on their biological activities. All fucoidans inhibited leucocyte recruitment in an inflammation model in rats, and neither the content of fucose and sulfate nor other structural features of their polysaccharide backbones significantly affected the efficacy of fucoidans in this model. In vitro evaluation of P-selectin-mediated neutrophil adhesion to platelets under flow conditions revealed that only polysaccharides from Laminaria saccharina, L. digitata, Fucus evanescens, F. serratus, F. distichus, F. spiralis, and Ascophyllum nodosum could serve as P-selectin inhibitors. All fucoidans, except that from Cladosiphon okamuranus carrying substantial levels of 2-O-alpha-D-glucuronopyranosyl branches in the linear (1--&gt;3)-linked poly-alpha-fucopyranoside chain, exhibited anticoagulant activity as measured by activated partial thromboplastin time whereas only fucoidans from L. saccharina, L. digitata, F. serratus, F. distichus, and F. evanescens displayed strong antithrombin activity in a platelet aggregation test. The last fucoidans potently inhibited human umbilical vein endothelial cell (HUVEC) tubulogenesis in vitro and this property correlated with decreased levels of plasminogen-activator inhibitor-1 in HUVEC supernatants, suggesting a possible mechanism of fucoidan-induced inhibition of tubulogenesis. Finally, fucoidans from L. saccharina, L. digitata, F. serratus, F. distichus, and F. vesiculosus strongly blocked MDA-MB-231 breast carcinoma cell adhesion to platelets, an effect which might have critical implications in tumor metastasis. The data presented herein provide a new rationale for the development of potential drugs for thrombosis, inflammation, and tumor progression.
State-of-the-art radioactive drug development has become a helpful tool in new functional imaging technologies in neurosciences. Drug development programs are evaluated in terms of effective biodistribution, costs and time. This article details the existing drug development parameters for neuroimaging and highlights some examples, as in Parkinson's disease, alcoholic neuritis and psychotic diseases, showing the benefit and the potential of using new functional neuroimaging technologies for specific studies of the central nervous system.
Numerous studies have demonstrated that Sprague-Dawley rats exhibit a wide range of locomotor reactivity when placed in a novel environment. High Responder (HR) rats show exaggerated locomotor response to novelty, enhanced neuroendocrine stress reactivity, decreased anxiety-like behavior, and propensity to self-administer psychostimulants, compared to the less active Low Responder (LR) animals. Few studies have explored the early environmental factors which may underlie the HR-LR differences in emotional reactivity. Considering the enormous impact of maternal care on rodent neurodevelopment, we sought to examine maternal behavior in HR-LR dams to determine whether they exhibit differences which could contribute to their offspring's differential temperaments. Females, like males, can be classified as HR versus LR, showing marked differences in novelty-induced locomotor activity and anxiety-like behavior. HR-LR mothers behaved differently with their pups during the first two postpartum weeks. LR dams spent greater time licking and nursing their pups compared to HR dams, with the most prominent differences occurring during the second postpartum week. By contrast, when non-lactating HR-LR females were presented with orphaned pups, the pattern of maternal response was reversed. HR females were more responsive and showed greater maternal care of the novel pups compared to LR females, which were probably inhibited due to fear of the unfamiliar pups. This underscores the critical interplay between the female's emotional phenotype, her hormonal status and her familiarity with the pup as key factors in determining maternal behavior. Future work should explore neural and hormonal mechanisms which drive these HR-LR differences in maternal behavior and their impact on the development of the offspring.
The permeability-glycoprotein efflux-transporter encoded by the multidrug resistance 1 (ABCB1) gene and the cytochromes P450 3A4/5 encoded by the CYP3A4/5 genes are known to interact in the transport and metabolism of many drugs. Recent data have shown that the CYP3A5 genotypes influence blood pressure and that permeability-glycoprotein activity might influence the activity of the renin-angiotensin system. Hence, these 2 genes may contribute to blood pressure regulation in humans. We analyzed the association of variants of the ABCB1 and CYP3A5 genes with ambulatory blood pressure, plasma renin activity, plasma aldosterone, endogenous lithium clearance, and blood pressure response to treatment in 72 families (373 individuals; 55% women; mean age: 46 years) of East African descent. The ABCB1 and CYP3A5 genes interact with urinary sodium excretion in their effect on ambulatory blood pressure (daytime systolic: P=0.05; nighttime systolic and diastolic: P&lt;0.01), suggesting a gene-gene-environment interaction. The combined action of these genes is also associated with postproximal tubular sodium reabsorption, plasma renin activity, plasma aldosterone, and with an altered blood pressure response to the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor lisinopril (P&lt;0.05). This is the first reported association of the ABCB1 gene with blood pressure in humans and demonstration that genes encoding for proteins metabolizing and transporting drugs and endogenous substrates contribute to blood pressure regulation.

A method of single-trial coherence analysis is presented, through the application of continuous multiwavelets. Multiwavelets allow the construction of spectra and bivariate statistics such as coherence within single trials. Spectral estimates are made consistent through optimal time-frequency localization and smoothing. The use of multiwavelets is considered along with an alternative single-trial method prevalent in the literature, with the focus being on statistical, interpretive and computational aspects. The multiwavelet approach is shown to possess many desirable properties, including optimal conditioning, statistical descriptions and computational efficiency. The methods are then applied to bivariate surrogate and neurophysiological data for calibration and comparative study. Neurophysiological data were recorded intracellularly from two spinal motoneurones innervating the posterior biceps muscle during fictive locomotion in the decerebrated cat.
We present the technical principle and evaluation of a multimodal virtual reality (VR) system for medical education, called a touch simulator. This touch simulator comes with an innovative three-dimensional (3-D) touch sensitive input device. The device comprises a six-axis force-torque sensor connected to a tangible object representing the shape of an anatomical structure. Information related to the point of contact is recorded by the sensor, processed, and audiovisually displayed. The touch simulator provides a high level of user-friendliness and fidelity compared to other purely graphically oriented simulation environments. In this paper, the touch simulator has been realized as an interactive neuroanatomical training simulator. The user can visualize and manipulate graphical information of the brain surface or different cross-sectional slices by a finger-touch on a brain-like shaped tangible object. We evaluated the system by theoretical derivations, experiments, and subjective questionnaires. In the theoretical analysis, we could show that the contact point estimation error mainly depends on the accuracy and the noise of the sensor, the amount and direction of the applied force, and the geometry of the tangible object. The theoretical results could be validated by experiments: applying a normal force of 10 N on a 120 mm x 120 mm x 120 mm cube causes a maximum error of 2.5 +/- 0.7 mm. This error becomes smaller when increasing the contact force. Based on the survey results, the touch simulator may be a useful tool for assisting medical schools in the visualization of brain image data and the study of neuroanatomy.
Finite mixture models (FMMs) are an indispensable tool for unsupervised classification in brain imaging. Fitting an FMM to the data leads to a complex optimization problem. This optimization problem is difficult to solve by standard local optimization methods, such as the expectation-maximization (EM) algorithm, if a principled initialization is not available. In this paper, we propose a new global optimization algorithm for the FMM parameter estimation problem, which is based on real coded genetic algorithms. Our specific contributions are two-fold: 1) we propose to use blended crossover in order to reduce the premature convergence problem to its minimum and 2) we introduce a completely new permutation operator specifically meant for the FMM parameter estimation. In addition to improving the optimization results, the permutation operator allows for imposing biologically meaningful constraints to the FMM parameter values. We also introduce a hybrid of the genetic algorithm and the EM algorithm for efficient solution of multidimensional FMM fitting problems. We compare our algorithm to the self-annealing EM-algorithm and a standard real coded genetic algorithm with the voxel classification tasks within the brain imaging. The algorithms are tested on synthetic data as well as real three-dimensional image data from human magnetic resonance imaging, positron emission tomography, and mouse brain MRI. The tissue classification results by our method are shown to be consistently more reliable and accurate than with the competing parameter estimation methods.
A variant of a sparse distributed memory (SDM) is shown to have the capability of storing and recalling patterns containing rank-order information. These are patterns where information is encoded not only in the subset of neuron outputs that fire, but also in the order in which that subset fires. This is an interesting companion to several recent works in the neuroscience literature, showing that human memories may be stored in terms of neural spike timings. In our model, the ordering is stored in static synaptic weights using a Hebbian single-shot learning algorithm, and can be reliably recovered whenever the associated input is supplied. It is shown that the memory can operate using only unipolar binary connections throughout. The behavior of the memory under noisy input conditions is also investigated. It is shown that the memory is capable of improving the quality of the data that passes through it. That is, under appropriate conditions the output retrieved from the memory is less noisy than the input used to retrieve it. Thus, this memory architecture could be used as a component in a complex system with stable noise properties and, we argue, it can be implemented using spiking neurons.
We report a 4-year-old boy with multiple daily episodes of abnormal eye movements, hemifacial spasms. Neuro-imaging revealed a cerebellar tumor. We believe that this association constitutes a rare but important syndrome of epilepsy characterized by seizures of cerebellar origin.
Aspirin is widely used for the prophylaxis of cardiovascular events in patients with cardiovascular risk factors or established atherosclerotic disease. However, despite aspirin treatment, a substantial number of patients experience recurrent events. Such 'aspirin resistance' is generally defined as failure of aspirin to produce an expected biological response, for example inhibition of platelet aggregation or of thromboxane A2 synthesis. Whilst its aetiology is multifactorial, genetic factors are also likely to play their part. Here we review the evidence for and against such a genetic contribution, as well as the data suggesting the involvement of specific genes.

A theory is developed based on the premise that nonneural processes occur in the brain exemplified as spatial working memory, and is the seat of consciousness. Additionally, wave storage of spatial information, a Bose condensate to support the waves, and the location of wave storage are provided as illustrative, &quot;existence proofs&quot; that a coherent theory can be built along these lines in agreement with the data. The theory can be built argues on functional grounds that a nonneural spatial memory may serve a vital biological function. This article demonstrate how this same non-neural memory can bridge the explanatory gap to consciousness, in agreement with the facts. The article proposes a possible mechanism and location for the nonneural component.
Recent studies have noted a relation between the pattern of resting frontal EEG activity and individual differences in affective style in typically developing infants, children, and adults. The authors conducted a pilot study to investigate the pattern of frontal EEG activity during a resting condition (eyes-open, eyes-closed) in a group of children who had one parent clinically diagnosed with social phobia (SP; n = 6) and in a group of typically developing children of similar age with healthy parents (n = 7). Patients with a primary DSM-IV diagnosis of SP with at least one biological child were recruited from the Anxiety Disorders Clinic at McMaster University Medical Centre. We found that children of parents clinically diagnosed with SP tended to exhibit higher overall resting frontal EEG activity compared with the children of healthy parents. This pattern of overall high EEG activity that is specific to the frontal region is similar to that observed in socially anxious profiles. Preliminary findings are discussed in terms of how overall resting frontal brain activation may be an early psychophysiological marker for placing children of parents with social phobia at risk for socioemotional problems before such problems emerge.
Emodepside, a cyclooctadepsipeptide, is a broad-spectrum anthelmintic previously shown to paralyse body wall muscle and pharyngeal muscle in the model nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. We demonstrate that wild-type C. elegans L4 are less sensitive than adults to emodepside in two independent assays of locomotor behaviour: body bend generation on agar (adult IC(50) 3.7 nM, L4 IC(50) 13.4 nM) and thrashing behaviour in liquid (thrashing behaviour as a % of controls after 1h in 10 microM emodepside: adults 16%, L4 worms 48%). We also show that continuous exposure of wild-type C. elegans to emodepside throughout the life-cycle from egg onwards, slows worm development, an effect that is emodepside concentration-dependent. The rate of worm-hatching from eggs on agar plates containing emodepside was not significantly different from controls, suggesting that it is development post-hatching rather than hatching itself that is affected by the drug. Emodepside also inhibits wild-type C. elegans egg-laying, with acute exposure to the drug at 500 nM resulting in an almost total inhibition within the first hour. However, the rate of egg production was not inhibited and therefore emodepside-treated worms became bloated with eggs, eventually rupturing. This suggests that the effect of emodepside on reproduction is not due to an inhibition of egg production but rather a paralytic effect on the egg-laying muscles. These results, when coupled with previous research, suggest that emodepside interferes with signalling at the neuromuscular junction on the body-wall muscles (Willson et al., 2003), pharynx (Willson et al., 2004) and egg-laying muscles and thus inhibits three important physiological functions: locomotion, feeding and reproduction.




Big brown bats (Eptesicus fuscus) were videotaped in the dark with a night-vision lens and infrared illumination while flying repeatedly along the same straight course to seize a tethered mealworm or a small electret microphone used to record biosonar signals impinging on the target. Bats emitted frequency-modulated sounds with first to third harmonics covering frequencies from 23 to 105 kHz. As the bats neared the target, the first harmonic shifted lower in frequency while the third harmonic strengthened and the fourth harmonic, and sometimes the fifth harmonic, appeared. Incident-sound bandwidth remained broad throughout the maneuver, a feature not seen in field recordings of rapidly moving bats due to propagation losses and uncontrolled directional effects. Sound pressures at the microphone increased by about 20 dB during approach from 2.5 m down to 50 cm and then leveled off, indicating that emitted amplitudes were approximately constant until the terminal stage, when they progressively decreased for the remainder of the maneuver. Interpulse intervals decreased from 80-100 ms down to about 6-7 ms and then stabilized throughout the terminal stage, while durations decreased smoothly from 3-4 ms (limited by adjacent wall) down to 0.5 ms during the terminal stage, which ended with capture.
This paper describes NeuroExtract, a pilot system which facilitates the integrated retrieval of Internet-based information relevant to the neurosciences. The approach involved extracting descriptive metadata from the sources using domain-specific queries; retrieving, processing, and organizing the data into structured text files; searching the data files using text-based queries; and, providing the results in a Web page along with descriptions to entries and URL links to the original sources. NeuroExtract has been implemented for three bioscience resources, SWISSPROT, GEO, and PDB, which provide neuroscience-related information as sub-topics. We discuss several issues that arose in the course of NeuroExtract's implementation. This project is a first step in exploring how this general approach might be used, in conjunction with other query mediation approaches, to facilitate the integration of many Internet-accessible resources relevant to the neurosciences.
A fundamental public health strategy to reduce the risk of HIV/AIDS is to increase levels of awareness and knowledge about the disease. Although knowledge about HIV/AIDS and protective sexual behaviour are linked theoretically, relatively little is known about their empirical relationship. Using Demographic and Health Survey data from 23 low- and middle-income countries, this study used multilevel logistic regression models: to examine cross-national variability in the relationship between HIV/AIDS knowledge and protective behaviour (condom use and restricted sex); to investigate the moderating influences of women's educational attainment on this relationship; and to test the extent to which severity of the HIV/AIDS epidemic accounts for cross-national variability in the association between HIV/AIDS knowledge and protective behaviour. There was an association between increased knowledge of HIV/AIDS and condom use that varied in strength and form cross-nationally. This cross-national variation was accounted for partially by the socioeconomic characteristics of women resident in the study countries and between-country differences in the severity of the HIV epidemic. While education modified the association between HIV/AIDS knowledge and protective behaviour--stronger associations at lower levels of education--epidemic severity exerted a stronger influence on behaviour than any other characteristic. Finally, this study indicates that protective sexual practices are disturbingly low. In eight of 23 countries, overall levels of condom use to prevent STDs and HIV/AIDS were less than 5.0%. Waiting for the spread of HIV/AIDS infection to change sexual practices in low- and middle-income countries will result in dramatic unnecessary suffering.

Distinct pathways of ribonucleoprotein transport exist within the nucleus, connected to their biogenesis and maturation. These occur despite evidence that the major mechanism for their movement within the nucleus is passive diffusion. Using fusions of Sm proteins to YFP, CFP and photoactivatable GFP, I have demonstrated that pathways with uni-directional bulk flow of complexes can be maintained within the nucleus despite multi-directional exchange of individual complexes. Newly imported splicing small nuclear ribonucleoproteins (snRNPs) exchange between Cajal bodies (CBs) within a nucleus and access the cytoplasm, but are unable to accumulate in speckles. By contrast, snRNPs at steady-state exchange freely in any direction between CBs and speckles, but cannot leave the nucleus. In addition to these surprising qualitative observations in the behaviour of nuclear complexes, sensitive live-cell microscopy techniques can detect subtle quantitative disturbances in nuclear dynamics before they have had an effect on overall nuclear organization. Inhibition of the nuclear export factor, CRM1, using leptomycin B results in a change in the dynamics of interaction of newly imported snRNPs with CBs. Together with the detection of interactions of CRM1 with Sm proteins and the survival of motor neurons (SMN) protein, these studies suggest that the export receptor CRM1 is a key player in the molecular mechanism for maintaining these pathways. Its role in snRNP trafficking, however, appears to be distinct from its previously identified role in small nucleolar RNP (snoRNP) maturation.
The ubiquitin-proteasome system is the main regulated intracellular proteolytic pathway. Increasing evidence implicates impairment of this system in the pathogenesis of diseases with ubiquitin-positive pathology. A mutant ubiquitin, UBB(+1), accumulates in the pathological hallmarks of tauopathies, including Alzheimer's disease, polyglutamine diseases, liver disease and muscle disease and serves as an endogenous reporter for proteasomal dysfunction in these diseases. UBB(+1) is a substrate for proteasomal degradation, however it can also inhibit the proteasome. Here, we show that UBB(+1) properties shift from substrate to inhibitor in a dose-dependent manner in cell culture using an inducible UBB(+1) expression system. At low expression levels, UBB(+1) was efficiently degraded by the proteasome. At high levels, the proteasome failed to degrade UBB(+1), causing its accumulation, which subsequently induced a reversible functional impairment of the ubiquitin-proteasome system. Also in brain slice cultures, UBB(+1) accumulation and concomitant proteasome inhibition was only induced at high expression levels. Our findings show that by varying UBB(+1) expression levels, the dual proteasome substrate and inhibitory properties can be optimally used to serve as a research tool to study the ubiquitin-proteasome system and to further elucidate the role of aberrations of this pathway in disease.
Amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) clearance from the central nervous system (CNS) maintains its low levels in brain. In Alzheimer's disease, Abeta accumulates in brain possibly because of its faulty CNS clearance and a deficient efflux across the blood-brain barrier (BBB). By using human-specific enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays, we measured a rapid 30 mins efflux at the BBB and transport via the interstitial fluid (ISF) bulk flow of human-unlabeled Abeta and of Abeta transport proteins, apolipoprotein E (apoE) and apoJ in mice. We show (i) Abeta40 is cleared rapidly across the BBB via low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein (LRP)1 at a rate of 0.21 pmol/min g ISF or 6-fold faster than via the ISF flow; (ii) Abeta42 is removed across the BBB at a rate 1.9-fold slower compared with Abeta40; (iii) apoE, lipid-poor isoform 3, is cleared slowly via the ISF flow and across the BBB (0.03-0.04 pmol/min g ISF), and after lipidation its transport at the BBB becomes barely detectable within 30 mins; (iv) apoJ is eliminated rapidly across the BBB (0.16 pmol/min g ISF) via LRP2. Clearance rates of unlabeled and corresponding 125I-labeled Abeta and apolipoproteins were almost identical, but could not be measured at low physiologic levels by mass spectrometry. Amyloid beta-peptide 40 binding to apoE3 reduced its efflux rate at the BBB by 5.7-fold, whereas Abeta42 binding to apoJ enhanced Abeta42 BBB clearance rate by 83%. Thus, Abeta, apoE, and apoJ are cleared from brain by different transport pathways, and apoE and apoJ may critically modify Abeta clearance at the BBB.
Recent studies suggest that proliferation in the adult forebrain subventricular zone increases in response to a forebrain stroke and intraventricular infusions of growth factors enhance this response. The potential for growth factor infusions to regenerate the damaged motor cortex and promote recovery of motor function after stroke has not been examined. Here, we report that intraventricular infusions of epidermal growth factor and erythropoietin together, but not individually, promote substantial regeneration of the damaged cerebral cortex and reverse impairments in spontaneous and skilled motor tasks, in a rat model of stroke. Cortical regeneration and functional recovery occurred even when growth factor administration was delayed for up to 7 days after the stroke-induced lesion. Cell tracking demonstrated the contribution of neural precursors originating in the forebrain subventricular zone to the regenerated cortex. Strikingly, removal of the regenerated cortical tissue reversed the growth factor-induced functional recovery. These findings reveal that specific combinations of growth factors can mobilize endogenous adult neural stem cells to promote cortical tissue re-growth and functional recovery after stroke.
Some marine molluscs, notably sea hares, cuttlefish, squid, and octopus, release ink when attacked by predators. The sea hare Aplysia californica releases secretions from the ink gland and opaline gland that protect individuals from injury or death from predatory spiny lobsters through a combination of mechanisms that include chemical deterrence, sensory disruption, and phagomimicry. The latter two mechanisms are facilitated by millimolar concentrations of free amino acids (FAA) in sea hare ink and opaline, which stimulate the chemosensory systems of predators, ultimately leading to escape by sea hares. We hypothesize that other inking molluscs use sensory disruption and/or phagomimicry as a chemical defense. To investigate this, we examined concentrations of 21 FAA and ammonium in the defensive secretions of nine species of inking molluscs: three sea hares (Aplysia californica, Aplysia dactylomela, Aplysia juliana) and six cephalopods (cuttlefish: Sepia officinalis; squid: Loligo pealei, Lolliguncula brevis, Dosidicus gigas; octopus: Octopus vulgaris, Octopus bimaculoides). We found millimolar levels of total FAA and ammonium in these secretions, and the FAA in highest concentration were taurine, aspartic acid, glutamic acid, alanine, and lysine. Crustaceans and fish, which are major predators of these molluscs, have specific receptor systems for these FAA. Our chemical analysis supports the hypothesis that inking molluscs have the potential to use sensory disruption and/or phagomimicry as a chemical defense.

A highly sensitive isocratic capillary high-performance liquid chromatographic (HPLC) method with electrochemical detection (ED) for the simultaneous measurement of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) and its metabolite 5-hydroxyindole-3-acetic acid (5-HIAA) in microdialysates has been developed using a 0.5 mm i.d. capillary column and a 11-nL detection cell. This method, validated on both pharmacological and analytical bases, can be performed using injection volumes as low as 1 microL. The limits of detection were 5.6 x 10(-11)mol/L and 3.0 x 10(-9)mol/L for 5-HT and 5-HIAA. Several applications of the present method are given on microdialysates from rodent brain and human spinal cord.
The objective of the study was to test the assumption that patients with a high level of negative symptoms show disproportionate impairments of inhibition and multitasking, both representing an underlying context processing mechanism. A total of 26 schizophrenia patients scoring high or low on negative symptoms (Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale) and a group of 13 healthy controls were assessed on measures of response inhibition (AX- Continuous Performance Task, Stroop Test) and multitasking (Dual Task, Trail Making Test). Only the high negative symptoms group showed significantly higher inhibition costs and multitasking costs than healthy controls. In the AX-Continuous Performance Test, inhibition costs exceeded context costs in patients with more severe negative symptoms, while in controls a tendency towards the reverse pattern emerged. There were no statistically significant effects involving the patient group with lower negative symptom scores. The pattern of results suggests that primarily patients with more severe negative symptoms have difficulties benefiting from contextual information. The deficit may manifest itself via increased multitasking costs and increased inhibition costs but also via reduced context costs.


The interaction between language and action systems has become an increasingly interesting topic of discussion in cognitive neuroscience. Several recent studies have shown that processing of action verbs elicits activation in the cerebral motor system in a somatotopic manner. The current study extends these findings to show that the brain responses for processing of verbs with specific motor meanings differ not only from that of other motor verbs, but, crucially, that the comprehension of verbs with motor meanings (i.e., greifen, to grasp) differs fundamentally from the processing of verbs with abstract meanings (i.e., denken, to think). Second, the current study investigated the neural correlates of processing morphologically complex verbs with abstract meanings built on stems with motor versus abstract meanings (i.e., begreifen, to comprehend vs. bedenken, to consider). Although residual effects of motor stem meaning might have been expected, we see no evidence for this in our data. Processing of morphologically complex verbs built on motor stems showed no differences in involvement of the motor system when compared with processing complex verbs with abstract stems. Complex verbs built on motor stems did show increased activation compared with complex verbs built on abstract stems in the right posterior temporal cortex. This result is discussed in light of the involvement of the right temporal cortex in comprehension of metaphoric or figurative language.
The cortical and subcortical forebrain connections of the marmoset prefrontal cortex (PFC) were examined by injecting the retrograde tracer, choleratoxin, and the anterograde tracer, biotin dextran amine, into four sites within the PFC. Two of the sites, the lateral and orbital regions, had previously been shown to provide functionally dissociable contributions to distinct forms of behavioral flexibility, attentional set-shifting and discrimination reversal learning, respectively. The dysgranular and agranular regions lying on the orbital and medial surfaces of the frontal lobes were most closely connected with limbic structures including cingulate cortex, amygdala, parahippocampal cortex, subiculum, hippocampus, hypothalamus, medial caudate nucleus, and nucleus accumbens as well as the magnocellular division of the mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus and midline thalamic nuclei, consistent with findings in the rhesus monkey. In contrast, the granular region on the dorsal surface closely resembled area 8Ad in macaques and had connections restricted to posterior parietal cortex primarily associated with visuospatial functions. However, it also had connections with limbic cortex, including retrosplenial and caudal cingulate cortex as well as auditory processing regions in the superior temporal cortex. The granular region on the lateral convexity had the most extensive connections. Based on its architectonics and functionality, it resembled areas 12/45 in macaques. It had connections with high-order visual processing regions in the inferotemporal cortex and posterior parietal cortex, higher-order auditory and polymodal processing regions in the superior temporal cortex. In addition it had extensive connections with limbic regions including the amygdala, parahippocampal cortex, cingulate, and retrosplenial cortex.

The N-back task requires participants to decide whether each stimulus in a sequence matches the one that appeared n items ago. Although N-back has become a standard &quot;executive&quot; working memory (WM) measure in cognitive neuroscience, it has been subjected to few behavioral tests of construct validity. A combined experimental- correlational study tested the attention-control demands of verbal 2- and 3-back tasks by presenting n = 1 &quot;lure&quot; foils. Lures elicited more false alarms than control foils in both 2- and 3-back tasks, and lures caused more misses to targets that immediately followed them compared with control targets, but only in 3-back tasks. N-back thus challenges control over familiarity-based responding. Participants also completed a verbal WM span task (operation span task) and a marker test of general fluid intelligence (Gf; Ravens Advanced Progressive Matrices Test; J. C. Raven, J. E. Raven, &amp; J. H. Court, 1998). N-back and WM span correlated weakly, suggesting they do not reflect primarily a single construct; moreover, both accounted for independent variance in Gf. N-back has face validity as a WM task, but it does not demonstrate convergent validity with at least 1 established WM measure.

The Ca(2+)-sensitive K(+) channel of human red blood cells (RBCs) (Gardos channel, hIK1, hSK4) was implicated in the progressive densification of RBCs during normal senescence and in the mechanism of sickle cell dehydration. Saturating RBC Ca(2+) loads were shown before to induce rapid and homogeneous dehydration, suggesting that Gardos channel capacity was uniform among the RBCs, regardless of age. Using glycated hemoglobin as a reliable RBC age marker, we investigated the age-activity relation of Gardos channels by measuring the mean age of RBC subpopulations exceeding a set high density boundary during dehydration. When K(+) permeabilization was induced with valinomycin, the oldest and densest cells, which started nearest to the set density boundary, crossed it first, reflecting conservation of the normal age-density distribution pattern during dehydration. However, when Ca(2+) loads were used to induce maximal K(+) fluxes via Gardos channels in all RBCs (F(max)), the youngest RBCs passed the boundary first, ahead of the older RBCs, indicating that Gardos channel F(max) was highest in those young RBCs, and that the previously observed appearance of uniform dehydration concealed a substantial degree of age scrambling during the dehydration process. Further analysis of the Gardos channel age-activity relation revealed a monotonic decline in F(max) with cell age, with a broad quasi-Gaussian F(max) distribution among the RBCs.

The regulation of Ca(V)2.1 (P/Q-type) channels by calmodulin (CaM) showcases the powerful Ca(2+) decoding capabilities of CaM in complex with the family of Ca(V)1-2 Ca(2+) channels. Throughout this family, CaM does not simply exert a binary on/off regulatory effect; rather, Ca(2+) binding to either the C- or N-terminal lobe of CaM alone can selectively trigger a distinct form of channel modulation. Additionally, Ca(2+) binding to the C-terminal lobe triggers regulation that appears preferentially responsive to local Ca(2+) influx through the channel to which CaM is attached (local Ca(2+) preference), whereas Ca(2+) binding to the N-terminal lobe triggers modulation that favors activation via Ca(2+) entry through channels at a distance (global Ca(2+) preference). Ca(V)2.1 channels fully exemplify these features; Ca(2+) binding to the C-terminal lobe induces Ca(2+)-dependent facilitation of opening (CDF), whereas the N-terminal lobe yields Ca(2+)-dependent inactivation of opening (CDI). In mitigation of these interesting indications, support for this local/global Ca(2+) selectivity has been based upon indirect inferences from macroscopic recordings of numerous channels. Nagging uncertainty has also remained as to whether CDF represents a relief of basal inhibition of channel open probability (P(o)) in the presence of external Ca(2+), or an actual enhancement of P(o) over a normal baseline seen with Ba(2+) as the charge carrier. To address these issues, we undertake the first extensive single-channel analysis of Ca(V)2.1 channels with Ca(2+) as charge carrier. A key outcome is that CDF persists at this level, while CDI is entirely lacking. This result directly upholds the local/global Ca(2+) preference of the lobes of CaM, because only a local (but not global) Ca(2+) signal is here present. Furthermore, direct single-channel determinations of P(o) and kinetic simulations demonstrate that CDF represents a genuine enhancement of open probability, without appreciable change of activation kinetics. This enhanced-opening mechanism suggests that the CDF evoked during action-potential trains would produce not only larger, but longer-lasting Ca(2+) responses, an outcome with potential ramifications for short-term synaptic plasticity.

The host reaction to infection of the brain contributes to a number of CNS pathologies including neuro-AIDS. In this study, we have identified the accumulation of SIV-specific CTL in the brains of SIV-infected animals who have neurophysiological abnormalities but are otherwise asymptomatic. SIV-specific CTL enter the brain early after viral infection and are maintained in the brain even when those reactive with an immunodominant epitope in Tat are lost from the rest of the body. The specialized CNS environment contributes to this unique outcome. Following SIV infection, brain levels of IL-15 were significantly elevated whereas IL-2 was absent, creating an environment that favors CTL persistence. Furthermore, in response to IL-15, brain-derived CD8(+) T cells could expand in greater numbers than those from spleen. The accumulation, persistence, and maintenance of CTL in the brain are closely linked to the increased levels of IL-15 in the absence of IL-2 in the CNS following SIV infection.
The defining role of language for communicating and forming social bonds has captured the imagination of scientists and scholars throughout the ages, and scientific inquiry into the neural correlates of language is now centuries old. Theories of linguistic structure and function occupy center stage in fields as diverse as neuroscience, embryology, anthropology and evolution. This should come as no surprise as the neural basis of linguistic function holds promise for understanding how the mind works and what makes us uniquely human.
This study examined the relationship between processing speed (PS) and working memory (WM), as measured by performance on an n-back task, in relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) patients. Simple PS was defined as reaction time (RT) on the 0-back task and complex PS was defined as RT on both the 1-back and 2-back tasks. Participants were administered all three n-back tasks (0-, 1-, and 2-back). Total correct responses, total dyads, and RTs were recorded. As expected, RT for all participants slowed as WM load increased. MS patients had slower RTs than controls across all tasks, and the difference between groups for RT was greatest during the 2-back task. When RT for simple PS (0-back) was parsed from the 1- and 2-back tasks, MS patients still showed impaired complex PS compared to controls. MS patients also made significantly fewer total correct responses and had fewer dyads than controls only on the 2-back task. These findings suggest that both WM and PS deficits are present in RRMS, and that as WM demand increases (from 1- to 2-back) both PS and WM deficits become more prominent.
In Germany, during World War II, more than 120,000 handicapped children and adults were murdered for the convenience of the State. To gain scientific knowledge, the brains of many of these patients were examined by German neuropathologists. Some 698 of these specimens were examined in the Kaiser-Wilhelm-Institut fr Hirnforschung in Berlin-Buch by Julius Hallervorden, whose career is reviewed together with that of his superior, Hugo Spatz. Hallervorden also oversaw the examination of cases of mental handicap by W-J Eiche at a laboratory at the Hospital Brandenburg-Gorden. Also in Berlin was Berthold Ostertag, neuropathologist at the Rudolf-Virchow-Hospital, who examined cases from the Children's Ward at Wiesengrund. Smaller but significant numbers of brains were examined in Munich, Heidelberg, Hamburg and Schleswig. Some brains of similar origin were examined in Vienna and in Lubliniecz. Jrgen Peiffer has estimated that German neuropathologists examined 2097 brains arising from the Nazi Programme of 'Euthanasia'.
Recent advances in cognitive science and cognitive neuroscience open up new vistas for human enhancement. Central to much of this work is the idea of new human-machine interfaces (in general) and new brain-machine interfaces (in particular). But despite the increasing prominence of such ideas, the very idea of such an interface remains surprisingly under-explored. In particular, the notion of human enhancement suggests an image of the embodied and reasoning agent as literally extended or augmented, rather than the more conservative image of a standard (non-enhanced) agent using a tool via some new interface. In this essay, I explore this difference, and attempt to lay out some of the conditions under which the more radical reading (positing brand new integrated agents or systemic wholes) becomes justified. I adduce some empirical evidence suggesting that the radical result is well within our scientific reach. The main reason why this is so has less to do with the advancement of our science (though that certainly helps) than with our native biological plasticity. We humans, I shall try to show, are biologically disposed towards literal (and repeated) episodes of sensory re-calibration, of bodily re-configuration and of mental extension. Such potential for literal and repeated re-configuration is the mark of what I shall call &quot;profoundly embodied agency,&quot; contrasting it with a variety of weaker (less philosophically and scientifically interesting) understandings of the nature and importance of embodiment for minds and persons. The article ends by relating the image of profound embodiment to some questions (and fears) concerning converging technologies for improving human performance.
Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection is characterized by a progressive decrease of CD4(+) T cells accompanied by other immune dysfunctions. Telomerase is transiently activated in lymphocytes during activation and is able to compensate for the progressive telomeric loss that occurs at each cell division, contributing to ensure the telomere length necessary for multiple proliferative events. The effect of HIV-1 infection on telomerase activity and on the expression of some of the factors involved in its regulation in CD4(+) T cells was investigated. Telomerase was found to be downregulated in both nuclear and cytoplasmic compartments, together with an impairment of human telomerase reverse transcriptase (hTERT) expression and of the cell machinery involved in hTERT phosporylation.
In vivo neuronal and glial calcium activity was monitored using a novel direct-contact probe that was designed for fluorescence detection deep within biological tissue. A small diameter fibre bundle direct-contact probe was employed with a laser scanning confocal microscope to detect evoked neuronal and glial activity in the posteromedial barrel subfield of the rat somatosensory cortex in vivo. Resolution of the probe allowed discrimination of single cells, and calcium dynamics spanning milliseconds to several seconds were observed. Initial results indicate that the probe has useful practical applications in the imaging of individual cells and monitoring rapid calcium fluctuations within their cell body and large processes.
Histidine is a naturally occurring amino acid with antioxidant properties, which is present in low amounts in tissues throughout the body. We recently synthesized and characterized histidine analogues related to the natural dipeptide carnosine, which selectively scavenge the toxic lipid peroxidation product 4-hydroxynonenal (HNE). We now report that the histidine analogue histidyl hydrazide is effective in reducing brain damage and improving functional outcome in a mouse model of focal ischemic stroke when administered intravenously at a dose of 20 mg/kg, either 30 min before or 60 min and 3 h after the onset of middle cerebral artery occlusion. The histidine analogue also protected cultured rat primary neurons against death induced by HNE, chemical hypoxia, glucose deprivation, and combined oxygen and glucose deprivation. The histidine analogue prevented neuronal apoptosis as indicated by decreased production of cleaved caspase-3 protein. These findings suggest a therapeutic potential for HNE-scavenging histidine analogues in the treatment of stroke and related neurodegenerative conditions.
It has been shown that Abeta inhibits long-term potentiation (LTP) in the rat hippocampus and this is accompanied by an increase in hippocampal concentration of IL-1beta. Abeta also increases microglial activation, which is the likely cell source of IL-1beta. Because IL-4 attenuates the effects of IL-1beta in hippocampus, and microglial activation is inhibited by minocycline, we assessed the ability of both IL-4 and minocycline to modulate the effects of Abeta on LTP and IL-1beta concentration. Following treatment with Abeta, IL-4 or minocycline, rats were assessed for their ability to sustain LTP in perforant path-granule cell synapses. We report that the Abeta-induced inhibition of LTP was associated with increases in expression of MHCII, JNK phosphorylation and IL-1beta concentration, and that these changes were attenuated by treatment of rats with IL-4 and minocycline. We also report that Abeta-induced increases in expression of MHCII and IL-1beta were similarly attenuated by IL-4 and minocycline in glial cultures prepared from neonatal rats. These data suggest that glial cell activation and the consequent increase in IL-1beta concentration mediate the inhibitory effect of Abeta on LTP and indicate that IL-4, by down-regulating glial cell activation, antagonizes the effects of Abeta.
The hippocampus plays an important role in novelty detection, stress-related adaptation and learning and memory. However, it is unknown whether the response to novelty in the hippocampus involves induction of chromatin remodelling events known to be associated with transcriptional regulation. Here, we examined whether exposure to a novel environment, a mild psychological stressor, would affect the number of phospho-acetylated histone H3-positive [P(Ser10)-Ac(Lys14)-H3+] neurons in the rat hippocampus. We show that: (i) the stressful situation induced a marked increase in the number of P(Ser10)-Ac(Lys14)-H3+ neurons, specifically in the dentate gyrus; (ii) the stress-induced rise in P(Ser10)-Ac(Lys14)-H3+ neurons occurred in the dentate gyrus throughout the rostro-caudal axis of the hippocampus, but they were exclusively located in the middle and superficial aspects of the granular cell layer of the upper blade of the dentate gyrus; (iii) antagonism of NMDA or glucocorticoid receptors, but not antagonism of mineralocorticoid receptors or inhibition of nitric oxide synthesis, attenuated the stress-induced response; (iv) combined blockade of NMDA and glucocorticoid receptors ablated the stress-induced histone modification response; (v) moreover, this combined blockade also abolished the induction of the P(Ser10)-Ac(Lys14)-H3-associated gene product c-fos after stress; (vi) administration of corticosterone to unstressed rats did not affect histone H3 phospho-acetylation. Thus, novelty stress induces chromatin remodelling and c-fos induction in mature dentate neurons through concurrent signalling via the NMDA receptor and the glucocorticoid receptor.
Following injury or stress of any type, cells undergo a stress response, involving the cessation of general protein synthesis and the up-regulation of heat shock proteins (HSP), which have been implicated in promoting cell survival and repair. In a variety of neuronal injury models, including the hamster facial motoneurone (FMN) model, steroid hormones augment regeneration and are neuroprotective. We have previously shown that facial nerve axotomy induces expression of HSP70 (HSP70) and/or up-regulates constitutively expressed HSP70 (HSC70) mRNA in axotomised hamster FMN and that testosterone propionate (TP) treatment reduces this response. These previous studies were unable to differentiate between HSC70 mRNA and HSP70 mRNA. Therefore, an objective of the present study was to determine which HSP (HSC70 or HSP70) was being up-regulated by axotomy and reduced by TP. Axotomy increased HSC70 protein in axotomised and non-axotomised FMN, relative to untreated baseline hamsters. Interestingly, TP transiently delayed the stress-induced up-regulation of HSC70 protein in axotomised FMN compared to axotomised FMN from non-TP treated controls. A potential explanation for this delay may involve the TP-induced liberation of HSP from the androgen receptor, which would provide the injured cell with an immediately available pool of protective HSP. An hypothesis is presented suggesting that this TP-induced delay of stress-induced HSC70 up-regulation might allow for the diversion of cellular energy away from HSP synthesis and towards the synthesis of proteins required for regeneration and survival.
Immunotherapy involving interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) treatment is often accompanied by symptoms of depressive illness. These effects may stem from the direct actions of the cytokine, or may be unique to individuals undergoing considerable strain. In two experiments using CD-1 mice, we demonstrate that intraperitoneal administration of IFN-alpha dose dependently influences plasma corticosterone and sickness behaviors, and modestly influences norepinephrine turnover in brain. However, when mice are exposed to a psychosocial stressor (social disruption by transferring mice from isolated to grouped conditions, and to a moderate extent a transfer from grouped housing to isolation), the effects of IFN-alpha on sickness, plasma corticosterone and hippocampal norepinephrine, as well as on the levels of circulating IL-6, TNF-alpha and IL-10 (but not IL-1beta or IFN-gamma) are greatly augmented. It is suggested that the depressive effects of immunotherapy in humans likewise reflects the synergistic actions of the cytokine and the ongoing distress experienced by patients.

Psychogenic tremor is the most common form (55%) of all psychogenic movement disorders. Almost 75% of presenting patients are female. Onset is often abrupt. Preceding events include work related injuries and other accidents. Important clinical characteristic include variability of direction, amplitude and frequency. A positive entrainment test, presence of the co-contraction sign, absence of finger tremor and slowness of voluntary movements are suggestive of psychogenic origin. Co-morbidity with psychiatric disorders is common and includes somatoform disorders (35%), such as pain, diffuse sensory loss, conversion disorders and depression (14%). One fifth (21%) of patients are involved in litigation or compensation issues. Diagnosis is based on history, clinical signs and investigations. A multimodal approach including neuropsychiatric evaluation and psychotherapy should be offered. Prognosis, however, is relatively poor particularly if the condition has persisted for over a year and in the long-term up to 80-90% of patients continue to have abnormal movements.

To save their patients from dialysis and transplantation, neurologists need simply remain alert to the possibility of renal failure, particularly in the context of systemic disease, diabetes, sepsis and drugs. Of the numerous territories shared by our respective specialities, we outline a pragmatic approach to the diagnosis and treatment of the vasculitides, underpinned by knowing which questions to ask, equally importantly when to ask them, and in the art of obtaining a tissue diagnosis. We consider the current evolving trial evidence that directs the usage of a growing arsenal of therapies in the induction and maintenance stages of vasculitis treatment, and extend this consideration to Lupus and Sjogren's.



Posterior fossa ependymoma usually arise in the fourth ventricle. Though extension of this tumor into the cerebellopontine angle and subarachnoid space through the foramina of Luschka or Magendie is well described, a primary extraaxial cerebellopontine angle location of a posterior fossa ependymoma is distinctly uncommon. The authors report imaging in such an unusual case of a primary cerebellopontine angle ependymoma.
Inhibition of adenosine A2A receptors (A2ARs) is neuroprotective in several experimental models of striatal diseases. However, the mechanisms elicited by A2AR blockade are only partially known, and critical aspects about the potential beneficial effects of A2AR antagonism in models of neurodegeneration still await elucidation. In the present study, we analyzed the influence of the selective A2AR antagonist SCH 58261 in a rat model of striatal excitotoxicity obtained by unilateral intrastriatal injection of quinolinic acid (QA). We found that SCH 58261 differently affected the expression of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) induced by QA in cortex and striatum. The antagonist enhanced COX-2 expression in cortical neurons and prevented it in striatal microglia-like cells. Similarly, SCH 58261 differently regulated astrogliosis and microglial activation in the 2 brain regions. In addition, the A2AR antagonist prevented the QA-induced increase in striatal brain-derived neurotrophic factor levels. Because COX-2 activity has been linked to excitotoxic processes and because brain-derived neurotrophic factor depletion has been observed in mouse models as well as in patients with Huntington disease, we suggest that the final outcome of A2AR blockade (namely neuroprotection vs neurodegeneration) is likely to depend on the balance among its various and region-specific effects.
Hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated (HCN) channels are responsible for the functional hyperpolarization-activated current (I(h)) in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons, playing an important role in pain processing. We found that the known analgesic loperamide inhibited I(h) channels in rat DRG neurons. Loperamide blocked I(h) in a concentration-dependent manner, with an IC(50) = 4.9 +/- 0.6 and 11.0 +/- 0.5 microM for large- and small-diameter neurons, respectively. Loperamide-induced I(h) inhibition was unrelated to the activation of opioid receptors and was reversible, voltage-dependent, use-independent, and was associated with a negative shift of V(1/2) for I(h) steady-state activation. Loperamide block of I(h) was voltage-dependent, gradually decreasing at more hyperpolarized membrane voltages from 89% at -60 mV to 4% at -120 mV in the presence of 3.7 microM loperamide. The voltage sensitivity of block can be explained by a loperamide-induced shift in the steady-state activation of I(h). Inclusion of 10 microM loperamide into the recording pipette did not affect I(h) voltage for half-maximal activation, activation kinetics, and the peak current amplitude, whereas concurrent application of equimolar external loperamide produced a rapid, reversible I(h) inhibition. The observed loperamide-induced I(h) inhibition was not caused by the activation of peripheral opioid receptors because the broad-spectrum opioid receptor antagonist naloxone did not reverse I(h) inhibition. Therefore we suggest that loperamide inhibits I(h) by direct binding to the extracellular region of the channel. Because I(h) channels are involved in pain processing, loperamide-induced inhibition of I(h) channels could provide an additional molecular mechanism for its analgesic action.
The generation of perceptual experiences requires the integration of complex spatiotemporal patterns of sensory input. The rodent whisker system is a useful model for understanding the cellular mechanisms of sensory integration, which often include the operation of local circuits distributed throughout the brain. An example is cross-whisker suppression, where the neuronal response to whisker deflection is strongly reduced by preceding deflection of a neighboring whisker. Suppressive interactions between whisker-evoked responses have largely been studied using pairs of single whisker deflections. However, rats typically sweep their whiskers across surfaces at frequencies ranging from 5 to 25 Hz. Repetitive afferent activation induces frequency-dependent adaptation of neuronal responses and alters the synaptic dynamics of circuits that play a role in suppression, suggesting that adaptation could modulate the spatial integration of whisker evoked responses. We tested this hypothesis by comparing the cross-whisker suppression of principal whisker (PW)-evoked cortical and thalamic responses when preceded by either a single deflection of an adjacent whisker (AW) or a train of AW deflections at frequencies covering the normal whisking range. We found that periodic deflection of the preceding AW significantly reduced the magnitude of cross-whisker suppression. Surprisingly, although higher frequencies resulted in greater adaptation of the AW-evoked response, the effect on suppression was independent of frequency. We suggest that these results follow from known local circuit operations at multiple levels within the afferent path. Our findings support the view that repetitive whisking subserves a transformation of the integrative and functional properties of the whisker system.
The cholinergic innervation of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) plays a pivotal role in regulating executive functions. Muscarinic receptors activated by acetylcholine depolarize pyramidal neurons in the rodent PFC homologue, but the mechanisms mediating this modulation are controversial. To address this question, we studied the responses of layer V rat pre- and infralimbic cortex pyramidal neurons to muscarinic receptor stimulation. Consistent with previous findings, M(1) receptor stimulation produced a strong depolarization, leading to tonic firing. Voltage-clamp analysis revealed that M(1) activation reduced constitutively active inwardly rectifying (Kir2) K(+) channel currents. Blocking protein kinase C activation or depleting intracellular Ca(2+) stores did not affect the modulation. However, reversal of the modulation was prevented by the phosphoinositide kinase inhibitor, wortmanin, suggesting the modulation was mediated by depletions of membrane phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate (PIP(2)). Reduction of Kir2 channel currents by M(1) receptor stimulation significantly increased the temporal summation of excitatory synaptic potentials (EPSPs) evoked by repetitive stimulation of layer I. This action was complimented by M(2/4) receptor mediated presynaptic inhibition of the same terminals. As a consequence of this dual modulation, the responses to a single, isolated afferent volley was reduced, but the response to a high-frequency afferent burst was potentiated.
Tachykinins are present in lamprey spinal cord. The goal of this study was to investigate whether an endogenous release of tachykinins contributes to the activity of the spinal network generating locomotor activity. The locomotor network of the isolated lamprey spinal cord was activated by bath-applied N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and the efferent activity recorded from the ventral roots. When spantide II, a tachykinin receptor antagonist, was bath-applied after reaching a steady-state burst frequency (&gt;2 h), it significantly lowered the burst rate compared with control pieces from the same animal. In addition, the time to reach the steady-state burst frequency (&gt;2 h) was lengthened in spantide II. These data indicate that an endogenous tachykinin release contributes to the ongoing activity of the locomotor network by modulating the glutamate-glycine neuronal network responsible for the locomotor pattern. We also explored the effects of a 10-min exogenous application of substance P (1 microM), a tachykinin, and showed that its effect on the burst rate depended on the initial NMDA induced burst frequency. At low initial burst rates (approximately 0.5 Hz), tachykinins caused a marked further slowing to 0.1 Hz, whereas at higher initial burst rates, it instead caused an enhanced burst rate as previously reported, and in addition, a slower modulation (0.1 Hz) of the amplitude of the motor activity. These effects occurred during an initial period of approximately 1 h, whereas a modest long-lasting increase of the burst rate remained after &gt;2 h.
Recent sensory experience affects both perception and the response properties of visual neurons. Here I review a rapid form of experience-dependent plasticity that follows adaptation, the presentation of a particular stimulus or ensemble of stimuli for periods ranging from tens of milliseconds to minutes. Adaptation has a rich history in psychophysics, where it is often used as a tool for dissecting the perceptual mechanisms of vision. Although we know comparatively little about the neurophysiological effects of adaptation, work in the last decade has revealed a rich repertoire of effects. This review focuses on this recent physiological work, the cellular and biophysical mechanisms that may underlie the observed effects, and the functional benefit that they may afford. I conclude with a brief discussion of some important open questions in the field.
In tasks requiring judgments about visual stimuli, humans exhibit repetition priming, responding with increased speed when a stimulus is repeated. Repetition priming might depend on repetition suppression, a phenomenon first observed in monkey inferotemporal cortex (IT) whereby, when a stimulus is repeated, the strength of the neuronal visual response is reduced. If the reduction resulted in sharpening of the cortical representation of the stimulus, and did not just scale it down, then speeded processing might result. To explore the relation between repetition priming and repetition suppression, we monitored neuronal activity in IT while monkeys performed a symmetry decision task. We found 1) that monkeys exhibit repetition priming, 2) that IT neurons simultaneously exhibit repetition suppression, 3) that repetition priming and repetition suppression do not vary in a significantly correlated fashion across trials, and 4) that repetition suppression scales down the representation of the stimulus without sharpening it. We conclude that repetition suppression accompanies repetition priming but is unlikely to be its cause.
Potassium channels play an important role in controlling neuronal firing and synaptic interactions. Na(+)-activated K(+) (K(Na)) channels have been shown to exist in neurons in different regions of the CNS, but their physiological function has been difficult to assess. In this study, we have examined if neurons in the spinal cord possess K(Na) currents. We used whole cell recordings from isolated spinal cord neurons in lamprey. These neurons display two different K(Na) currents. The first was transient and activated by the Na(+) influx during the action potentials, and it was abolished when Na(+) channels were blocked by tetrodotoxin. The second K(Na) current was sustained and persisted in tetrodotoxin. Both K(Na) currents were abolished when Na(+) was substituted with choline or N-methyl-D-glucamine, indicating that they are indeed dependent on Na(+) influx into neurons. When Na(+) was substituted with Li(+), the amplitude of the inward current was unchanged, whereas the transient K(Na) current was reduced but not abolished. This suggests that the transient K(Na) current is partially activated by Li(+). These two K(Na) currents have different roles in controlling the action potential waveform. The transient K(Na) appears to act as a negative feedback mechanism sensing the Na(+) influx underlying the action potential and may thus be critical for setting the amplitude and duration of the action potential. The sustained K(Na) current has a slow kinetic of activation and may underlie the slow Ca(2+)-independent afterhyperpolarization mediated by repetitive firing in lamprey spinal cord neurons.
Presynaptic boutons and associated postsynaptic structures in the CNS express markers that are highly synapse type-specific. In multilabel immunofluorescence imaging, coexpression of such markers appears as overlap of signals in the same structures whereas closely related yet segregated markers, e.g., located pre-and postsynaptically, translate into signals that touch. 'Overlap' and 'touch' occur in three dimensions (3D). The instrument of choice to study overlap vs. touch of small objects in tissue volumes is the confocal laser scanning microscope (CSLM). To quantify overlap and touch we used two paradigms. Overlap was studied in rat brain sections triple-immunostained with antibodies against markers predominantly located presynaptically: glutamic acid decarboxylase, vesicular glutamate transporter 2, and calretinin. Touch was studied in rat temporal cortex where afferent, tracer-labeled entorhinohippocampal fibers in the subiculum were imaged together with possible postsynaptic target neurons immunostained with an antibody against the calcium binding protein, parvalbumin. Z-series of CLSM images were obtained in multiple channels. After post-acquisition deconvolution we further processed the images via software written in the C/C++ SCIL Image computer programming environment. The software receives parameters via scripts, after which it first identifies 3D objects through establishing isodensity envelopes around pixels representing small biologic structures (in our case: boutons) and then compares associated Z-series in which it determines whether there is overlap or touch between recognized 3D objects. Finally, graphic and numeric output is produced. With this script-commanded software we feel equipped to accurately and objectively quantify overlap and touch.
The brains of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients display cerebrovascular and parenchymal deposits of beta-amyloid (A beta) peptides, which are derived by proteolytic processing by the beta-site APP-cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1) of the amyloid precursor protein (APP). The rat BACE1 promoter has a nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) binding site. Deletion studies with a BACE1 promoter/luciferase reporter suggest that the NF-kappaB binding DNA consensus sequence plays a suppressor role, when occupied by NF-kappaB, in the regulation of neuronal brain BACE1 expression. Here we characterize a signal transduction pathway that may be responsible for the increases in A beta associated with AD. We propose that the transcription factor NF-kappaB acts as a repressor in neurons but as an activator of BACE1 transcription in activated astrocytes present in the CNS under chronic stress, a feature present in the AD brain. The activated astrocytic stimulation of BACE1 may in part account for increased BACE1 transcription and subsequent processing of Ab eta in a cell-specific manner in the aged and AD brain. As measured by reporter gene promoter constructs and endogenous BACE1 protein expression, a functional NF-kappaB site was stimulatory in activated astrocytes and A beta-exposed neuronal cells and repressive in neuronal and nonactivated astrocytic cells. Given the evidence for increased levels of activated astrocytes in the aged brain, the age- and AD-associated increases in NF-kappaB in brain may be significant contributors to increases in A beta, acting as a positive feedback loop of chronic inflammation, astrocyte activation, increased p65/p50 activation of BACE1 transcription, and further inflammation.
The 6055G&gt;A mutation in the leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) gene results in a G2019S substitution in the mixed-lineage kinase domain of Lrrk2, causing autosomal dominant Parkinson's disease (PD). We hypothesized the mutation alters cellular mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signalling cascades, and might be detectable in tissues other than in the brain. We therefore compared total levels and activation of the signalling proteins Src, HSP27, p38 MAPK, JNK, and ERK, in extracts of leukocytes isolated from patients with PD carrying the G2019S mutation, healthy mutation carriers, patients with idiopathic PD, and healthy controls. Phosphorylation of Src, HSP27, and JNK was reduced significantly in cell extracts from patients with G2019S-associated PD compared to healthy controls. Similarly, phosphorylation was reduced significantly in Src and HSP27 in the group of healthy carriers of the mutation, as well as in patients with idiopathic PD. Significant reductions in total Src were also observed in these three groups compared to the controls. The results of this pilot project therefore indicate significant alterations in key signalling proteins in leukocytes from patients with PD, and were most pronounced in G2019S-associated PD. Changes in MAPK-signalling may thus be common to PD pathophysiology, regardless of aetiology. Such changes may also be shown in blood samples during the preclinical stage of LRRK2-associated PD, which could be particularly important for the development of neuroprotective strategies to delay onset, or slow progression of PD.
We have shown previously that prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) and prostaglandin I(2) (PGI(2)) are each produced in an explant model of peripheral nerve injury. We report that IP prostanoid receptor mRNA and protein are present in primary rat Schwann cells. IP prostanoid receptor stimulation using prostacyclin produced an elevation in intracellular cyclic AMP concentration ([cAMP](i)) in primary Schwann cells. Peak [cAMP](i) was observed between 5-15 min of stimulation followed by a gradual recovery toward basal level. Phosphorylation of cyclic AMP-response element binding protein (CREB) on Ser(133) was also detected after IP prostanoid receptor stimulation and CREB phosphorylation was inhibited completely by the protein kinase A inhibitor, H-89. Intracellular calcium levels were not affected by IP prostanoid receptor stimulation. Unlike forskolin, IP prostanoid receptor stimulation did not significantly augment Schwann cell proliferation in response to growth factor treatment. However, IP prostanoid receptor stimulation increased the number of Schwann cells that were able to generate a calcium transient in response to P2 purinergic receptor activation. These findings suggest that signaling via the IP prostanoid receptor may by relevant to Schwann cell biology in vivo.
Plexiform neurofibromas are peripheral nerve sheath tumors that arise frequently in neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) and have a risk of malignant progression. Past efforts to establish xenograft models for neurofibroma involved the implantation of tumor fragments or heterogeneous primary cultures, which rarely achieved significant tumor growth. We report a practical and reproducible animal model of plexiform-like neurofibroma by xenograft of an immortal human NF1 tumor-derived Schwann cell line into the peripheral nerve of scid mice. The S100 and p75 positive sNF94.3 cell line was shown to possess a normal karyotype and have apparent full-length neurofibromin by Western blot. These cells were shown to have a constitutional NF1 microdeletion and elevated Ras-GTP activity, however, suggesting loss of normal neurofibromin function. Localized intraneural injection of the cell line sNF94.3 produced consistent and slow growing tumors that infiltrated and disrupted the host nerve. The xenograft tumors resembled plexiform neurofibromas with a low rate of proliferation, abundant extracellular matrix (hypocellularity), basal laminae, high vascularity, and mast cell infiltration. The histologic features of the developed tumors were particularly consistent with those of human plexiform neurofibroma as well. Intraneural xenograft of sNF94.3 cells enables the precise initiation of intraneural, plexiform-like tumors and provides a highly reproducible model for the study of plexiform neurofibroma tumorigenesis. This model facilitates testing of potential therapeutic interventions, including angiogenesis inhibitors, in a relevant cellular environment.
Deficiency of folate in heavy-drinking alcoholic populations can occur partly because of an increased urinary folate excretion. Ethanol directly reduces the reabsorption of folate in the renal proximal tubule (PT) by acting on either of 2 folate transport proteins, the reduced folate carrier (RFC) and the folate receptor (FR). This study was designed to determine the effects of ethanol on the transport of folate by PT cells and to examine the effects of ethanol on RFC and the FR protein expression. Normal human PT (HPT) cells were cultured on membrane inserts to study intracellular transport of 5-methyltetrahydrofolate from the apical or basolateral direction in the presence of ethanol [11-109 mmol/L (50-500 mg/dL)]. The long-term effect of ethanol on the renal folate transport protein content was determined by western blot in treated HPT cells and in vivo in rats pair-fed control diets or ethanol-containing liquid diets. A 1-h treatment of HPT cells with ethanol (&gt; or = 65 mmol/L) reduced the apically directed transport of folate by 20-25% without affecting the basolateral transport. A 5-d exposure of HPT cells to ethanol dose-dependently increased the content of both the FR and RFC proteins, with a greater effect on the RFC. Similarly, a 14-d exposure of rats to ethanol increased the in vivo expression of both the RFC and FR. These studies demonstrate that ethanol decreases the reabsorptive transport of folate by renal PT cells, which would increase urinary folate excretion. In contrast, subchronic exposure of PT cells, both in vivo and in vitro, to folate-depleting concentrations of ethanol leads to an upregulation of the 2 folate transport proteins. The increase in folate transporters partly counteracts the inhibitory effects of ethanol on folate transport activity, which explains the lower magnitude of ethanol's effect on transport with subchronic exposure compared with that with acute exposure.
Five studies investigated the cognitive and emotional processes by which self-compassionate people deal with unpleasant life events. In the various studies, participants reported on negative events in their daily lives, responded to hypothetical scenarios, reacted to interpersonal feedback, rated their or others' videotaped performances in an awkward situation, and reflected on negative personal experiences. Results from Study 1 showed that self-compassion predicted emotional and cognitive reactions to negative events in everyday life, and Study 2 found that self-compassion buffered people against negative self-feelings when imagining distressing social events. In Study 3, self-compassion moderated negative emotions after receiving ambivalent feedback, particularly for participants who were low in self-esteem. Study 4 found that low-self-compassionate people undervalued their videotaped performances relative to observers. Study 5 experimentally induced a self-compassionate perspective and found that self-compassion leads people to acknowledge their role in negative events without feeling overwhelmed with negative emotions. In general, these studies suggest that self-compassion attenuates people's reactions to negative events in ways that are distinct from and, in some cases, more beneficial than self-esteem.
Although the tricyclic antidepressants, such as desipramine (DMI), are among the most efficacious treatments for adult depression, they are not effective in treating childhood and adolescent depression. Because the adrenergic nervous system is not fully developed until late adolescence, we hypothesized that the mechanisms regulating receptor density may not yet be mature in young mammals. To test this hypothesis, the effects of DMI treatment on cortical alpha-1-, alpha-2-, and beta-adrenergic receptors were compared in juvenile and adult rats. DMI was delivered either by 4 days of twice daily injections to postnatal day 9 to 13 (4 and 7 mg/kg/day) and adult (20 mg/kg/day) rats, or by 2 weeks of continual drug infusion (osmotic minipumps) to postnatal day 21-35 (15 mg/kg/day) and adult (10 mg/kg/day) rats. These delivery paradigms gave juvenile brain concentrations of DMI similar to those in adult rats. The beta-adrenergic receptor was down-regulated with both treatment paradigms in both juvenile and adult rats. By contrast, in the postnatal day 9 to 13 rats, there was a dose-dependent up-regulation of the alpha-1 in the cortex and alpha-2-adrenergic receptor in the prefrontal cortex, whereas there was no change in density in adult rats. These differences in the alpha-adrenergic receptor regulation after DMI treatment suggest that the lack of efficacy of tricyclic antidepressants in treating childhood depression may be related to immature regulatory mechanisms for these receptors.



Inhibitory and facilitatory intracortical pathways regulating motor cortical output can be studied non-invasively in humans with transcranial magnetic stimulation. These circuits include short-interval intracortical inhibition (SICI), long-interval intracortical inhibition (LICI) and intracortical facilitation (ICF). Stimulation of the motor cortex also inhibits the contralateral motor cortex (interhemispheric inhibition, IHI) at short (approximately 10 ms, IHI10) or long intervals (approximately 40 ms, IHI40). We investigated how SICI, ICF, and LICI influence IHI10 and IHI40. We hypothesize that intracortical circuits will have similar effects on IHI and cortical output neurons: SICI and LICI will decrease IHI, and ICF will increase it. Motor evoked potentials were recorded from the first dorsal interosseous muscles bilaterally in 10 healthy subjects. We compared IHI10 and IHI40 alone to IHI10 and IHI40 elicited in the presence of SICI, ICF, or LICI. Our results showed that SICI and LICI reduced IHI10, IHI40 and corticospinal output to a similar degree. ICF increased corticospinal output but had no effect on either IHI10 or IHI40. The different effects of ICF on corticospinal excitability and IHI suggest the transcallosal fibres mediating IHI and the corticospinal output system arise from different neuronal populations. SICI and LICI produce more global inhibition with similar effects on the transcallosal and descending corticospinal circuits.
Neuronal potassium (K(+)) channels are usually regarded as largely inhibitory, i.e. reducing excitability. Here we show that BK-type calcium-activated K(+) channels enhance high-frequency firing and cause early spike frequency adaptation in neurons. By combining slice electrophysiology and computational modelling, we investigated functions of BK channels in regulation of high-frequency firing in rat CA1 pyramidal cells. Blockade of BK channels by iberiotoxin (IbTX) selectively reduced the initial discharge frequency in response to strong depolarizing current injections, thus reducing the early spike frequency adaptation. IbTX also blocked the fast afterhyperpolarization (fAHP), slowed spike rise and decay, and elevated the spike threshold. Simulations with a computational model of a CA1 pyramidal cell confirmed that the BK channel-mediated rapid spike repolarization and fAHP limits activation of slower K(+) channels (in particular the delayed rectifier potassium current (I(DR))) and Na(+) channel inactivation, whereas M-, sAHP- or SK-channels seem not to be important for the early facilitating effect. Since the BK current rapidly inactivates, its facilitating effect diminishes during the initial discharge, thus producing early spike frequency adaptation by an unconventional mechanism. This mechanism is highly frequency dependent. Thus, IbTX had virtually no effect at spike frequencies &lt; 40 Hz. Furthermore, extracellular field recordings demonstrated (and model simulations supported) that BK channels contribute importantly to high-frequency burst firing in response to excitatory synaptic input to distal dendrites. These results strongly support the idea that BK channels play an important role for early high-frequency, rapidly adapting firing in hippocampal pyramidal neurons, thus promoting the type of bursting that is characteristic of these cells in vivo, during behaviour.
Back-propagating action potentials (bAPs) are involved in associative synaptic plasticity and the modulation of dendritic excitability. We have used high-speed confocal and two-photon imaging to measure calcium and voltage signals associated with action potential propagation into oblique branches of CA1 pyramidal neurons in adult hippocampal slices. The spatial profile of the bAP-associated Ca(2+) influx was biphasic, with an initial increase in the proximity of the branch point followed by a progressive decrease. Voltage imaging in the branches showed that bAP amplitude was initially constant and then steadily declined with distance from the soma. To determine the role of transient K(+) channels in this profile, we used external Ba(2+) (150 microm) as a channel blocker, after characterizing its effect on A-type K(+) channels in the apical trunk. Bath application of Ba(2+) significantly reduced the A-type K(+) current in outside-out patches and nearly eliminated the distance-dependent decrease in bAP amplitude and its associated Ca(2+) signal. Finally, small amplitude bAPs at more distal oblique branch locations could be boosted by simultaneous branch depolarization, such that the paired Ca(2+) signal became nearly the same for proximal and distal oblique dendrites. These data suggest that dendritic K(+) channels regulate the amplitude of bAPs to create a dendritic Ca(2+) signal whose magnitude is inversely related to the electrotonic distance from the soma when bAPs are not associated with a significant amount of localized synaptic input. This distance-dependent Ca(2+) signal from bAPs, however, can be amplified and a strong associative signal is produced once the proper correlation between synaptic activation and AP output is achieved. We hypothesize that these two signals may be involved in the regulation of the expression and activity of dendritic voltage- and ligand-gated ion channels.
Disturbances in integrative function have been consistentLy described in psychotic disorder; for instance, prepulse inhibition of the startle reflex (startle-PPI) which is a marker of sensory gating, is deficient in persons with schizophrenia. The N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist ketamine produces in control subjects a spectrum of neurobehavioural symptoms like encountered in schizophrenia, and disrupts startle-PPI in animals. In the present study, we investigated in 12 healthy subjects whether ketamine would reduce sensory-gating in auditory responses at doses which produce psychotic symptoms. In a double-blind, crossover design loading doses of 0.024, 0.081 and 0.27 mg/kg or saline were employed, followed by maintenance infusion for 120 min. A passive paradigm has been developed which consisted in tone bursts, preceded or not by a (near-threshold) click at intervals of 100 ms or 500 ms. Brain electromagnetic activity imaging of the responses to sound stimuli has been carried out by way of a 148-channel magnetoencephalography-system. Actual evoked response amplitudes and underlying equivalent current dipole strengths have been compared to multi-electrode evoked potentials from the scalp. A click stimulus is capable to inhibit test responses under placebo at the 100 ms interval. During maintenance infusion of ketamine at steady-state (for &gt;30 min) after 0.27 mg/kg, no such amplitude changes were observed anymore (p &lt;0.05) and under these circumstances significant increases in Brief Psychiatric Rating scale and Scale for the Assessment of Negative Symptoms scores were evidenced (p &lt; 0.001). Intermediate effects have been observed when the dose was lowered to 0.081 mg/kg. The present results have shown that ketamine may induce a psychotic-like clinical state associated with gating deficits in healthy subjects.
Rehabilitation medicine is entering a new era, based on the knowledge that the central nervous system has a substantial capacity for repair and regeneration. This capacity is used in 3 distinct but overlapping situations: (i) routine housekeeping throughout life (i.e. taking care of normal wear-and-tear); (ii) older age, when functional reserves of various kinds are depleted, resulting in cognitive, motor, and other deficits; and (iii) contexts in which a neurological deficit reflects an acute or chronic pathological process, such as neurotrauma, stroke, or neurodegenerative disease. The positive message here is two-fold. First, some aspects of regeneration occur even in the adult and ageing brain and spinal cord, and we are starting to unravel the underlying molecular mechanisms. Secondly, novel therapeutic approaches and targets are emerging that will substantially increase the efficiency and efficacy of rehabilitation and will transform rehabilitation into a discipline focusing both on its traditional domain and on prevention, ultimately across all the age categories. This review attempts to sum up the present knowledge about an enriched environment, currently the single most efficient plasticity- and regeneration-promoting paradigm. It also summarizes research showing that astrocytes - considered only years ago merely to nurse and support neurones - are a novel and highly interesting target for regenerative strategies in the brain and spinal cord.


In the platelet, it is well established that many G-protein- and tyrosine kinase-coupled receptors stimulate phospholipase-C-dependent Ca(2+) mobilization; however, the extent to which secondary activation of adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP)-gated P2X(1) receptors contributes to intracellular Ca(2+) responses remains unclear. We now show that selective inhibition of P2X(1) receptors substantially reduces the [Ca(2+)](i) increase evoked by several important agonists in human platelets; for collagen, thromboxane A(2), thrombin, and adenosine 5'-diphoshate (ADP) the maximal effect was a reduction to 18%, 34%, 52%, and 69% of control, respectively. The direct contribution of P2X(1) to the secondary Ca(2+) response was far greater than that of either P2Y receptors activated by co-released ADP, or via synergistic P2X(1):P2Y interactions. The relative contribution of P2X(1) to the peak Ca(2+) increase varied with the strength of the initial stimulus, being greater at low compared to high levels of stimulation for both glycoprotein VI and PAR-1, whereas P2X(1) contributed equally at both low and high levels of stimulation of thromboxane A(2) receptors. In contrast, only strong stimulation of P2Y receptors resulted in significant P2X(1) receptor activation. ATP release was detected by soluble luciferin:luciferase in response to all agonists that stimulated secondary P2X(1) receptor activation. However, P2X(1) receptors were stimulated earlier and to a greater extent than predicted from the average ATP release, which can be accounted for by a predominantly autocrine mechanism of activation. Given the central role of [Ca(2+)](i) increases in platelet activation, these studies indicate that ATP should be considered alongside ADP and thromboxane A(2) as a significant secondary platelet agonist.

The spectacular progress in genomics increasingly highlights the importance of comparative biology in biomedical research. In particular, nonhuman primates, as model systems, provide a crucial intermediate between humans and mice. The close similarities between humans and other primates are stimulating primate studies in virtually every area of biomedical research, including development, anatomy, physiology, immunology, and behavior. The vervet monkey (Chlorocebus aethiops sabaeus) is an important model for studying human diseases and complex traits, especially behavior. We have developed a vervet genetic linkage map to enable mapping complex traits in this model organism and facilitate comparative genomic analysis between vervet and other primates. Here we report construction of an initial genetic map built with about 360 human orthologous short tandem repeats (STRs) that were genotyped in 434 members of an extended vervet pedigree. The map includes 226 markers mapped in a unique order with a resolution of 9.8 Kosambi centimorgans (cM) in the vervet monkey genome, and with a total length (including all 360 markers) of 2726 cM. At least one complex and 11 simple rearrangements in marker order distinguish vervet chromosomes from human homologs. While inversions and insertions can explain a similar number of changes in marker order between vervet and rhesus homologs, mostly inversions are observed when vervet chromosome organization is compared to that in human and chimpanzee. Our results support the notion that large inversions played a less prominent role in the evolution within the group of the Old World monkeys compared to the human and chimpanzee lineages.
The biopsychosocial paradigm is now the main model when dealing with most human health disorders. One of the strengths of this model is that it encourages broader thinking when assessing and managing patients. It also encourages broader reading into areas not traditionally associated with manual therapy. Immunology and neuroscience are amongst the fastest growing medical sciences. These fields come together in the relatively new area of psychoneuroimmunolgy. This article examines some findings from these fields that are not widely discussed in the physical therapy professions. These findings are of relevance to many of the disciplines within the physical therapies. It is the authors aim to stimulate further interest in the relevant, yet often under explored areas of immunology and psychoneuroimmunology.
This review provides an outline of the most important proteomic applications in the study of neurodegenerative disorders including Alzheimer's (AD), Parkinson's (PD), Huntington's (HD), and prion diseases, and also discusses advances in cancer and addiction. One of the scopes is to illustrate the potential of proteomics in the biomarkers discovery of these diseases. Finally, this article comments the advantages and drawbacks of the most commonly used techniques and methods for samples preparation.
We surveyed anesthetic practices and the use of cerebral monitoring and brain protective therapies during cerebral aneurysm surgery by sending a questionnaire to 822 hospitals in Japan. Three hundred and fifty four hospitals responded. For induction, 51% used thiopental, 41% used propofol, and 94% supplemented induction with fentanyl. For maintenance 45% used isoflurane, 29% used sevoflurane, and 26% used propofol. Only 6% used EEG and/or evoked potentials in most of their patients. Specific brain protective measures were used in most of the hospitals. If used, 97% used mannitol, 43% used steroids and 23% used a certain level of induced hypothermia. When mild hypothermia was used, 39% used 33-34 degrees C, 59% used&gt;34 degrees C, 2% used &lt;33 degrees C, and only 4% used mild hypothermia in every patient. During temporary clipping, 18% kept the blood pressure equal to the level when awake, while 56% used induced hypotension. To control blood pressure during extubation, 72% used nicardipine or nitroglycerine. The use of intraoperative brain protective therapies were common but brain monitoring was not the standard.
Genetic variation of the alpha-synuclein gene (SNCA) is known to cause familial parkinsonism, however the role of SNCA variants in sporadic Parkinson's disease (PD) remains elusive. The present study identifies an association of common SNCA polymorphisms with disease susceptibility in a series of Irish PD patients. There is evidence for association with alternate regions, of protection and risk which may act independently/synergistically, within the promoter region (Rep1; OR: 0.59, 95% CI: 0.37-0.84) and the 3'UTR of the gene (rs356165; OR: 1.67, 95% CI: 1.08-2.58). Given previous reports of association a collaborative effort is required which may exploit global linkage disequilibrium patterns for SNCA and standardise polymorphic markers used in each population. It is now crucial to identify the susceptibility allele and elucidate its functionality which may generate a therapeutic target for PD.
The cyclin-dependent kinase Cdk5 has attracted a great deal of attention both because of its roles in cell migration and axon patterning, and the extensive data implicating it in adult-onset neurodegeneration in mammals. Both the kinase activity and the biological effects of Cdk5 are absolutely dependent on association with an activating subunit, called p35. We show here that Drosophila lacking the Cdk5 activator, D-p35, display a wide range of defects in embryonic axon patterning. We further show that, while viable and fertile, p35 mutant adults display progressive, age-dependent loss of motor function and have a significantly shortened lifespan.
The MMI was introduced into the medical admissions process at the University of Calgary (UofC) in 2006. This report outlines the steps which were involved in its development and our evaluation of the process. The MMI allowed us to interview applicants in one weekend, with fewer interviewers and less time required per interviewer compared to our previous interview process. Most importantly, more than 90% of both the applicants and interviewers found the process to be very acceptable. This process allowed us to ensure that the interview process focused on the non-cognitive traits we are looking for in the students we admit to the UofC.
Cognitive neuroscience of creativity has been extensively studied using non-invasive electrical recordings from the scalp called electroencephalograms (EEGs) and event related potentials (ERPs). The paper discusses major aspects of performing research using EEG/ERP based experiments including the recording of the signals, removing noise, estimating ERP signals, and signal analysis for better understanding of the neural correlates of processes involved in creativity. Important factors to be kept in mind to record clean EEG signal in creativity research are discussed. The recorded EEG signal can be corrupted by various sources of noise and methodologies to handle the presence of unwanted artifacts and filtering noise are presented followed by methods to estimate ERPs from the EEG signals from multiple trials. The EEG and ERP signals are further analyzed using various techniques including spectral analysis, coherence analysis, and non-linear signal analysis. These analysis techniques provide a way to understand the spatial activations and temporal development of large scale electrical activity in the brain during creative tasks. The use of this methodology will further enhance our understanding the processes neural and cognitive processes involved in creativity.
Important points on methodology and detailed description of methods used in polymodal psychophysiological studies of human verbal creative thinking are presented. The psychophysiological studies were conducted with healthy volunteers during implementations of specially developed and adapted psychological tests aimed to bring the subjects into states of verbal creative thinking. Four different task sets (&quot;story composition&quot;, &quot;associative chains&quot;, &quot;original definitions&quot;, &quot;proverb sense flipping&quot;) were developed and applied. Positron emission tomography of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) and state-related quantitative electroencephalography (power and coherence evaluated) were used. The effectiveness of the methods is illustrated with figures.
The authors describe how they have used visual-hemifield and event-related neuroimaging approaches to study their theory specifying some of the neural components of insight. A set of problems developed by the authors, and the use of solvers' self reports of insight, are presented to argue that advances in our understanding of insight are being unnecessarily stifled by over reliance on traditional insight problems and a widespread failure to determine whether insight has occurred on a solution-by-solution basis.
Insights are sporadic, unpredictable, short-lived moments of exceptional thinking where unwarranted assumptions need to be discarded before solutions to problems can be obtained. Insight requires a restructuring of the problem situation that is relatively rare and hard to elicit in the laboratory. One way of dealing with this problem is to catalyze such restructuring processes using solution hints. This allows one to obtain multiple insight events and their accurate onset times, which are required for event-related designs in functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and Electroencephalogram (EEG), and to reliably record the activity associated with the restructuring component of insight. In this article, we discuss in detail the methodological challenges that brain research on insight poses and describe how we dealt with these challenges in our recent studies on insight problem solving.
The psychometric assessment of different facets of creative abilities as well as the availability of experimental tasks for the neuroscientific study of creative thinking has replaced the view of creativity as an unsearchable trait. In this article we provide a brief overview of contemporary methodologies used for the operationalization of creative thinking in a neuroscientific context. Empirical studies are reported which measured brain activity (by means of EEG, fMRI, NIRS or PET) during the performance of different experimental tasks. These tasks, along with creative idea generation tasks used in our laboratory, constitute useful tools in uncovering possible brain correlates of creative thinking. Nevertheless, much more work is needed in order to establish reliable and valid measures of creative thinking, in particular measures of novelty or originality of creative insights.
Creativity is defined quite simply as &quot;the ability to create&quot; in most lexicons, but, in reality, this is a complex and heterogeneous construct about which there is much to be discovered. The cognitive approach to investigating creativity recognizes and seeks to understand this complexity by investigating the component processes involved in creative thinking. The cognitive neuroscience approach, which has only limitedly been applied in the study of creativity, should ideally build on these ideas in uncovering the neural substrates of these processes. Following an introduction into the early experimental ideas and the cognitive approach to creativity, we discuss the theoretical background and behavioral methods for testing various processes of creative cognition, including conceptual expansion, the constraining influence of examples, creative imagery and insight. The complex relations between the underlying component processes of originality and relevance across these tasks are presented thereafter. We then outline how some of these conceptual distinctions can be evaluated by neuroscientific evidence and elaborate on the neuropsychological approach in the study of creativity. Given the current state of affairs, our recommendation is that despite methodological difficulties that are associated with investigating creativity, adopting the cognitive neuroscience perspective is a highly promising framework for validating and expanding on the critical issues that have been raised in this paper.
This article has two goals. First, the ideas outlined here can be seen as a sustained and disciplined demolition project aimed at sanitizing our bad habits of thinking about creativity. Apart from the enormous amount of fluff out there, the study of creativity is, quite unfortunately, still dominated by a number of rather dated ideas that are either so simplistic that nothing good can possibly come out of them or, given what we know about the brain, factually mistaken. As cognitive neuroscience is making more serious contact with the knowledge base of creativity, we must, from the outset, clear the ground of these pernicious fossil traces from a bygone era. The best neuroimaging techniques help little if we don't know what to look for. Second, as an antidote to these theoretical duds, the article offers fresh ideas on possible mechanisms of creativity. Given that they are grounded in current understanding of cognitive and neural processes, it is hoped that these ideas represent steps broadly pointing in the right direction. In the end, the fundamental question we must ask ourselves is what, exactly, are the mental processes--or their critical elements--that yield creative thoughts.
Fundamental to creativity is prior knowledge and learning capability. One can be creative only to the extent that one's prior knowledge and learning abilities enable. Many of the mental functions of humans that are affected by neuropathology involve levels of learning ability that supercede those used by most animal researchers. Yet there is literature showing that there are similarities in structure and function in the cerebrum within class Mammalia and that nonhuman animals are capable of higher levels of learning than those typically studied by neuroscientists. Reviews of abstracts from the 2005 meeting of the Society for Neuroscience reveal that most neurobehavioral research with animals has involved relatively low levels of learning ability. Thomas's [R.K. Thomas, Brain, Behav. Evol. 17 (1980) 452-474.] hierarchy of learning abilities has been revised here to better include Learning Set Formation which is fundamental to most forms of higher learning. This paper summarizes both the rationale and the methodologies that might be used to assess the roles of neuroanatomical structures involved in the psychological processes that serve as the bases of creativity.
Neisseria meningitidis is naturally competent for transformation throughout its growth cycle. Transformation in neisserial species is coupled to the expression of type IV pili, which are present on the cell surface as bundled filamentous appendages, and are assembled, extruded and retracted by the pilus biogenesis components. During the initial phase of the transformation process, binding and uptake of DNA takes place with entry through a presumed outer-membrane channel into the periplasm. This study showed that DNA associates only weakly with purified pili, but binds significantly to the PilQ complex isolated directly from meningococcal membranes. By assessing the DNA-binding activity of the native complex PilQ, as well as recombinant truncated PilQ monomers, it was shown that the N-terminal region of PilQ is involved in the interaction with DNA. It was evident that the binding of ssDNA to PilQ had a higher affinity than the binding of dsDNA. The binding of DNA to PilQ did not, however, depend on the presence of the neisserial DNA-uptake sequence. It is suggested that transforming DNA is introduced into the cell through the outer-membrane channel formed by the PilQ complex, and that DNA uptake occurs by non-specific introduction of DNA coupled to pilus retraction, followed by presentation to DNA-binding component(s), including PilQ.
We examined the impact of lymph flow obstruction in large post-nodal lymphatic vessels in sheep. A silk ligature was placed 2 cm downstream from the prescapular or popliteal lymph node and tightened to interrupt flow. At 6, 12 and 16 weeks after lymph flow blockage, a network of small interconnecting lymphatics (approximately 10-40 microm in diameter) could be observed in the vicinity of the ligature. These were identified using antibodies to the lymphatic endothelial markers LYVE-1 or VEGFR-3 or unequivocally, with the upstream intraluminal injection of the non-specific cell dye CFDA-SE. The observed lymphangiogenesis coincided with increased levels of Prox1, Tie2 (Y992) phosphorylation, MAPK activation, and decreased Akt activition. In the popliteal preparations, saline was infused into the prenodal ducts upstream of the regeneration site. The slopes of the inflow pressure versus flow relationships were 17.3+/-3.6, immediately after vessel obstruction, 36.2+/-9.6 at 6 weeks and 15.0+/-5.3 at 12-16 weeks. For comparison, the average slope in a completely intact popliteal system was 3.1+/-0.3 (from a previous publication). The resistance to flow remained high up to 12-16 weeks after flow obstruction suggesting that normal flow parameters had not been achieved over this time. The lymph node appeared to have some role in limiting the impact of post-nodal lymph obstruction, a function that appeared to be compromised by lymph stasis.
After spinal cord injury axonal regeneration is prevented by glial scar formation. In this study we examined whether induced expression of polysialic acid (PSA) in the lesion site would render the glial scar permissive to axonal regeneration after dorsal column transection. PSA was induced by lentiviral vector-mediated expression of polysialyltransferase (LV/PST). PSA expression increased astrocyte infiltration and permitted the penetration of regenerating axons across the caudal border of the lesion and into the lesion cavity. In LV/PST-injected animals with a peripheral nerve-conditioning lesion, 20 times more axons grew into the lesion cavity than those LV/GFP-injected plus conditioning lesion, and some axons grew across the cavity and extended to the rostral cord, while in LV/GFP group most ascending axons terminated at the caudal border of the lesion. Our result suggests that induced expression of PSA can provide a favorable environment for axonal regeneration.
We identified a novel c.1556A&gt;G transition in exon 12 of the HEXB gene associated with chronic Sandhoff's disease, changing a conserved aspartic acid to glycine at position 494 of the Hex beta-subunit; moreover, RT-PCR showed aberrant exon 12 skipping, causing a frame-shift and premature stop codon, consequent to the disruption of an exonic splicing enhancer motif by the mutation. These data suggest that the c.1556 A&gt;G transition would affect both HEXB mRNA processing and biochemical properties of the beta-subunit.
Toll like receptors, the critical receptor family in innate immunity, have been shown to signal via both ERK 1/2 and transcription factor NFkappaB. beta-Arrestins 1 and 2 have recently been implicated in modulation of NFkappaB signaling and ERK 1/2 activation. Using a number of approaches: mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEF) from wild-type (WT), beta-arrestins knockouts (KO), beta-arrestins 1 and 2 double KO, and MEFs with reconstituted WT beta-arrestins in the double KO cells, RNA interference (siRNA) specific knockdown of beta-arrestins, and overexpression of WT beta-arrestins, it was demonstrated that beta-arrestin 2 positively regulates LPS-induced ERK 1/2 activation and both beta-arrestins 1 and 2 negatively regulate LPS-induced NFkappaB activation. Also beta-arrestin 2 positively regulate LPS-induced IL-6 production and both beta-arrestins 1 and 2 positively regulate LPS-induced IL-8 production. The specific ERK1/2 inhibitor PD98059 significantly decreased LPS-induced IL-6 and IL-8 production suggesting that IL-6 and IL-8 production is, in part, mediated by ERK 1/2 activation. Over expression of wild type beta-arrestins 1 and 2 had no effect on LPS-induced ERK1/2 activation and LPS-induced IL-8 production suggesting that endogenous beta-arrestins 1 and 2 are sufficient to mediate maximum ERK 1/2 activity and IL-8 production. beta-Arrestins thus not only negatively regulate LPS-induced NFkappaB activation but also positively regulate ERK 1/2 activation and specific pro-inflammatory gene expression. Understanding the role of beta-arrestins in regulation of TLR signaling pathways may provide novel insights into control mechanisms for inflammatory gene expression.
Mounting evidence supports the idea that neurotransmitter transporters are subject to many forms of post-translational regulation typically associated with receptors and ion channels, including receptor and kinase-mediated changes in transporter phosphorylation, cell surface trafficking, and/or catalytic activation. Although hints of this regulation can be achieved with traditional radiolabeled substrate flux techniques, higher resolution methods are needed that can localize transporter function in situ as well as permit real-time monitoring of transport function without confounds associated with coincident receptor activation. The elegant study by Bolan et al. (p. 1222) capitalizes on the fluorescent properties of a recently introduced substrate for the dopamine (DA) transporter (DAT), termed 4-(4-(dimethylamino)styryl)-N-methylpyridinium (ASP+), to illuminate a pertussis toxin-sensitive, extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK1/2)-dependent pathway by which presynaptic DA D(2) receptors regulate DATs.
As a member of the transient receptor potential (TRP) ion channel superfamily, the ligand-gated ion channel TRPA1 has been implicated in nociceptive function and pain states. The endogenous ligands that activate TRPA1 remain unknown. However, various agonists have been identified, including environmental irritants (e.g., acrolein) and ingredients of pungent natural products [e.g., allyl isothiocyanate (ITC), cinnamaldehyde, allicin, and gingerol]. In general, these agents are either highly reactive, nonselective, or not potent or efficacious, significantly limiting their utilities in the study of TRPA1 channel properties and biological functions. In a search for novel TRPA1 agonists, we identified 3'-carbamoylbiphenyl-3-yl cyclohexylcarbamate (URB597), a potent and systemically active inhibitor of fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH). This enzyme is responsible for anandamide degradation and therefore has been pursued as an antinociceptive and antiepileptic drug target. Using Ca(2+) influx assays and patch-clamp techniques, we demonstrated that URB597 could activate heterologously expressed human and rat TRPA1 channels, whereas two other FAAH inhibitors (i.e., URB532 and Compound 7) had no effect. When applied to inside-out membrane patches expressing rat TRPA1, URB597 elicited single-channel activities with a unitary conductance of 40 pS. Furthermore, URB597 activated TRPA1 channels endogenously expressed in a population of rat dorsal root ganglion neurons that also responded to ITC. In contrast to its effect on TRPA1, URB597 inhibited TRPM8 and had no effects on TRPV1 or TRPV4. Thus, we conclude that URB597 is a novel agonist of TRPA1 and probably activates the channel through a direct gating mechanism.
The dopamine transporter (DAT) terminates dopamine (DA) neurotransmission by reuptake of DA into presynaptic neurons. Regulation of DA uptake by D(2) dopamine receptors (D(2)R) has been reported. The high affinity of DA and other DAT substrates for the D(2)R, however, has complicated investigation of the intracellular mechanisms mediating this effect. The present studies used the fluorescent DAT substrate, 4-[4-(diethylamino)-styryl]-N-methylpyridinium iodide (ASP(+)) with live cell imaging techniques to identify the role of two D(2)R-linked signaling pathways, extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1 and 2 (ERK1/2), and phosphoinositide 3 kinase (PI3K) in mediating D(2)R regulation of DAT. Addition of the D(2)/D(3) receptor agonist quinpirole (0.1-10 muM) to human embryonic kidney cells coexpressing human DAT and D(2) receptor (short splice variant, D(2S)R) induced a rapid, concentration-dependent and pertussis toxin-sensitive increase in ASP(+) accumulation. The D(2)/D(3) agonist (S)-(+)-(4aR, 10bR)-3,4,4a, 10b-tetrahydro-4-propyl-2H,5H-[1]benzopyrano-[4,3-b]-1,4-oxazin-9-ol hydrochloride (PD128907) also increased ASP(+) accumulation. D(2S)R activation increased phosphorylation of ERK1/2 and Akt, a major target of PI3K. The mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase inhibitor 2-(2-amino-3-methoxyphenyl)-4H-1-benzopyran-4-one (PD98059) prevented the quinpirole-evoked increase in ASP(+) accumulation, whereas inhibition of PI3K was without effect. Fluorescence flow cytometry and biotinylation studies revealed a rapid increase in DAT cell-surface expression in response to D(2)R stimulation. These experiments demonstrate that D(2S)R stimulation increases DAT cell surface expression and therefore enhances substrate clearance. Furthermore, they show that the increase in DAT function is ERK1/2-dependent but PI3K-independent. Our data also suggest the possibility of a direct physical interaction between DAT and D(2)R. Together, these results suggest a novel mechanism by which D(2S)R autoreceptors may regulate DAT in the central nervous system.
Minocycline has immunomodulatory and neuroprotective activities in vitro and in an animal model of multiple sclerosis (MS). We have previously reported that minocycline decreased gadolinium-enhancing activity over six months in a small trial of patients with active relapsing-remitting MS (RRMS). Here we report the impact of oral minocycline on clinical and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) outcomes and serum immune molecules in this cohort over 24 months of open-label minocycline treatment. Despite a moderately high pretreatment annualized relapse rate (1.3/year pre-enrolment; 1.2/year during a three-month baseline period) prior to treatment, no relapses occurred between months 6 and 24. Also, despite very active MRI activity pretreatment (19/40 scans had gadolinium-enhancing activity during a three-month run-in), the only patient with gadolinium-enhancing lesions on MRI at 12 and 24 months was on half-dose minocycline. Levels of the p40 subunit of interleukin (IL)-12, which at high levels might antagonize the proinflammatory IL-12 receptor, were elevated over 18 months of treatment, as were levels of soluble vascular cell adhesion molecule-1. The activity of matrix metalloproteinase-9 was decreased by treatment. Thus, clinical and MRI outcomes are supported by systemic immunological changes and call for further investigation of minocycline in MS.
The aim of this study was to identify a neurophysiological marker of upper motoneuron involvement in patients with sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). For this purpose we evaluated the after-effects of transcranial direct-current stimulation (tDCS) on excitability of the motor cortex of eight ALS patients and eight healthy controls. Healthy controls showed a transient polarity-specific change in corticospinal excitability of about +/-45%, with anodal tDCS inducing facilitation and cathodal tDCS leading to inhibition, whereas no change could be induced in ALS patients after either type of tDCS. It is likely that the lack of tDCS after-effects in ALS is the result of alterations of the motoneuronal membrane or, alternatively, may represent an electrophysiological correlate of disordered glutamate neurotransmission. Further studies are warranted to confirm these results. The present findings may lead to a new, reliable electrophysiological marker of upper motoneuronal involvement in ALS.
The purpose of the study was to reliably identify an early stage of diabetic polyneuropathy (DPN) by measuring injury to epidermal nerve fibers. We compared intraepidermal nerve fiber density (IENFD) at the ankle and thigh of 29 diabetic subjects who had no clinical or electrophysiological evidence of small- or large-fiber neuropathy to that of 84 healthy controls. The mean ankle IENFD of diabetic subjects was 9.1+/-5.0 mm and that of controls, 13.0+/-4.8 mm (P&lt;0.001). The thigh IENFD did not differ significantly. The IENFD ratio (thigh IENFD divided by ankle IENFD) was 2.39+/-1.30 in diabetic subjects and 1.77+/-0.58 in controls (P&lt;0.001), indicating a length-dependent reduction of IENFD in diabetics. Ankle IENFD remained significantly lower and the IENFD ratio higher in diabetic subjects after adjusting for age. Two subjects had parasympathetic dysfunction, two had retinopathy, and two early nephropathy. Age, height, weight, duration of diabetes, and average HbA1c did not influence IENFD among diabetic subjects. We used receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves to describe and compare the utility of various threshold values of ankle IENFD and IENFD ratio for the diagnosis of early DPN. The sensitivity and specificity of diagnosing DPN using ankle IENFD of less than 10 mm were 72.4% and 76.2%, respectively. Thus, asymptomatic diabetics have a measurable, length-dependent reduction of distal epidermal nerves. Analogous to microalbuminuria in diabetic nephropathy, reliable identification and quantitation of nascent diabetic neuropathy may have potential therapeutic implications.


KCNQ potassium channels are activated by changes in transmembrane voltage and play an important role in controlling electrical excitability. Human mutations of KCNQ2 and KCNQ3 potassium channel genes result in reduction or loss of channel activity and cause benign familial neonatal convulsions (BFNCs). Thus, small molecules capable of augmenting KCNQ currents are essential both for understanding the mechanism of channel activity and for developing therapeutics. We performed a high-throughput screen in search for agonistic compounds potentiating KCNQ potassium channels. Here we report identification of a new opener, zinc pyrithione (1), which activates both recombinant and native KCNQ M currents. Interactions with the channel protein cause an increase of single-channel open probability that could fully account for the overall conductance increase. Separate point mutations have been identified that either shift the concentration dependence or affect potentiation efficacy, thereby providing evidence for residues influencing ligand binding and downstream events. Furthermore, zinc pyrithione is capable of rescuing the mutant channels causal to BFNCs.
Children with sickle cell disease, a chronic hemolytic anemia, present with a wide variety of neurological syndromes, including ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke, transient ischemic attacks, 'soft neurological signs', seizures, headache, coma, visual loss, altered mental status, cognitive difficulties, and covert or 'silent' infarction. Those with ischemic stroke usually have stenosis or occlusion of the distal internal carotid and proximal middle cerebral arteries. Indefinite transfusion prevents recurrence in most patients who have had a stroke, and can prevent first stroke in those with high transcranial Doppler velocities. High white cell count, low hemoglobin and oxyhemoglobin desaturation predict neurological complications. Other risk factors for overt ischemic stroke include hypertension, previous transient ischemic attack, covert infarction and chest crisis. For hemorrhagic stroke, aneurysms are common in adults but not children, who often present with hypertension after transfusion or corticosteroids. Seizures are particularly common in patients with cerebrovascular disease and covert infarction; the latter is also associated with hyposplenism and infrequent pain. Factors associated with cognitive difficulties include thrombocytosis, infarction, large-vessel disease, and perfusion abnormality on neuroimaging. As well as investigating the role of genes and the possibility that hydroxyurea or blood pressure control reduce neurological complications, we should explore the modifiable effects of poor nutrition, chronic infection, hemolysis and oxyhemoglobin desaturation on stroke risk.

Both serotonin (5-HT) and neuropeptide Y have been shown to affect a variety of mammalian behaviors, including aggression. Here we show in Drosophila melanogaster that both 5-HT and neuropeptide F, the invertebrate homolog of neuropeptide Y, modulate aggression. We show that drug-induced increases of 5-HT in the fly brain increase aggression. Elevating 5-HT genetically in the serotonergic circuits recapitulates these pharmacological effects, whereas genetic silencing of these circuits makes the flies behaviorally unresponsive to the drug-induced increase of 5-HT but leaves them capable of aggression. Genetic silencing of the neuropeptide F (npf) circuit also increases fly aggression, demonstrating an opposite modulation to 5-HT. Moreover, this neuropeptide F effect seems to be independent of 5-HT. The implication of these two modulatory systems in fly and mouse aggression suggest a marked degree of conservation and a deep molecular root for this behavior.
We recently reported two common filaggrin (FLG) null mutations that cause ichthyosis vulgaris and predispose to eczema and secondary allergic diseases. We show here that these common European mutations are ancestral variants carried on conserved haplotypes. To facilitate comprehensive analysis of other populations, we report a strategy for full sequencing of this large, highly repetitive gene, and we describe 15 variants, including seven that are prevalent. All the variants are either nonsense or frameshift mutations that, in representative cases, resulted in loss of filaggrin production in the epidermis. In an Irish case-control study, the five most common European mutations showed a strong association with moderate-to-severe childhood eczema (chi2 test: P = 2.12 x 10(-51); Fisher's exact test: heterozygote odds ratio (OR) = 7.44 (95% confidence interval (c.i.) = 4.9-11.3), and homozygote OR = 151 (95% c.i. = 20-1,136)). We found three additional rare null mutations in this case series, suggesting that the genetic architecture of filaggrin-related atopic dermatitis consists of both prevalent and rare risk alleles.
Experiments in hippocampal area CA1 suggest that long-term potentiation could be associated with spine addition and enlargement, and long-term depression (LTD) with spine shrinkage and loss. Is this a general principle of synaptic plasticity? We used two-photon microscopy to measure dendritic spines in rat cerebellar Purkinje cells. Neither local synaptic induction of LTD nor global chemical induction of LTD changed spine number or size. Conversely, a manipulation that evoked persistent dendritic spine retraction did not alter parallel fiber-evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents.
Determining the degree of synapse formation and elimination is essential for understanding the structural basis of brain plasticity and pathology. We show that in vivo imaging of dendritic spine dynamics through an open-skull glass window, but not a thinned-skull window, is associated with high spine turnover and substantial glial activation during the first month after surgery. These findings help to explain existing discrepancies in the degree of dendritic spine plasticity observed in the mature cortex.
Channels formed by the transient receptor potential (TRP) family of proteins have a variety of physiological functions. Here we report that two members of the TRP cation channel (TRPC) subfamily, TRPC3 and 6, protected cerebellar granule neurons (CGNs) against serum deprivation-induced cell death in cultures and promoted CGN survival in rat brain. In CGN cultures, blocking TRPC channels or downregulating TRPC3 or 6 suppressed brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)-mediated protection, BDNF-triggered intracellular Ca2+ elevation and BDNF-induced CREB activation. By contrast, overexpressing TRPC3 or 6 increased CREB-dependent reporter gene transcription and prevented apoptosis in the neurons deprived of serum, and this protection was blocked by the dominant negative form of CREB. Furthermore, downregulating TRPC3 or 6 induced CGN apoptosis in neonatal rat cerebellum, and this effect was rescued by overexpressing either TRPC3 or 6. Thus, our findings provide in vitro and in vivo evidence that TRPC channels are important in promoting neuronal survival.
To define the role of the Raf serine/threonine kinases in nervous system development, we conditionally targeted B-Raf and C-Raf, two of the three known mammalian Raf homologs, using a mouse line expressing Cre recombinase driven by a nestin promoter. Targeting of B-Raf, but not C-Raf, markedly attenuated baseline phosphorylation of Erk in neural tissues and led to growth retardation. Conditional elimination of B-Raf in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons did not interfere with survival, but instead caused marked reduction in expression of the glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor receptor Ret at postnatal stages, associated with a profound reduction in levels of transcription factor CBF-beta. Elimination of both alleles of Braf, which encodes B-Raf, and one allele of Raf1, which encodes C-Raf, affected DRG neuron maturation as well as proprioceptive axon projection toward the ventral horn in the spinal cord. Finally, conditional elimination of all Braf and Raf1 alleles strongly reduced neurotrophin-dependent axon growth in vitro as well as cutaneous axon terminal arborization in vivo. We conclude that Raf function is crucial for several aspects of DRG neuron development, including differentiation and axon growth.
Adult CNS neurons are typically described as permanently postmitotic but there is probably nothing permanent about the neuronal cell cycle arrest. Rather, it appears that these highly differentiated cells must constantly keep their cell cycle in check. Relaxation of this vigilance leads to the initiation of a cell cycle and entrance into an altered and vulnerable state, often leading to death. There is evidence that neurons which are at risk of neurodegeneration are also at risk of re-initiating a cell cycle process that involves the expression of cell cycle proteins and DNA replication. Failure of cell cycle regulation might be a root cause of several neurodegenerative disorders and a final common pathway for others.
Many neurological and most psychiatric disorders are not due to mutations in a single gene; rather, they involve molecular disturbances entailing multiple genes and signals that control their expression. Recent research has demonstrated that complex 'epigenetic' mechanisms, which regulate gene activity without altering the DNA code, have long-lasting effects within mature neurons. This review summarizes recent evidence for the existence of sustained epigenetic mechanisms of gene regulation in neurons that have been implicated in the regulation of complex behaviour, including abnormalities in several psychiatric disorders such as depression, drug addiction and schizophrenia.
A central goal of neuroscience is to understand how neural circuits encode memory and guide behaviour. Studying simple, genetically tractable organisms, such as Drosophila melanogaster, can illuminate principles of neural circuit organization and function. Early genetic dissection of D. melanogaster olfactory memory focused on individual genes and molecules. These molecular tags subsequently revealed key neural circuits for memory. Recent advances in genetic technology have allowed us to manipulate and observe activity in these circuits, and even individual neurons, in live animals. The studies have transformed D. melanogaster from a useful organism for gene discovery to an ideal model to understand neural circuit function in memory.
The establishment of functional neural connections requires the growth of axons to specific target areas and the formation of synapses with appropriate synaptic partners. Several molecules that regulate axon guidance and synapse formation have been identified in the past decade, but it is unclear how a relatively limited number of factors can specify a large number of connections. Recent evidence indicates that transcription factors make a crucial contribution to the specification of connections in the nervous system by coordinating the response of neurons to guidance molecules and neurotransmitters.
Despite decades of research, the functional neuroanatomy of speech processing has been difficult to characterize. A major impediment to progress may have been the failure to consider task effects when mapping speech-related processing systems. We outline a dual-stream model of speech processing that remedies this situation. In this model, a ventral stream processes speech signals for comprehension, and a dorsal stream maps acoustic speech signals to frontal lobe articulatory networks. The model assumes that the ventral stream is largely bilaterally organized--although there are important computational differences between the left- and right-hemisphere systems--and that the dorsal stream is strongly left-hemisphere dominant.
Glutamate transporters (EAATs) are pivotal in mammalian synaptic transmission, tightly regulating synaptic levels of this excitatory neurotransmitter. In addition to coupled glutamate transport, the EAATs also show an uncoupled Cl(-) conductance, whose physiological importance has recently been demonstrated. Little is yet known about the molecular mechanism of chloride permeation. Here we show that Glt(Ph), a bacterial EAAT homolog whose structure has been determined, displays an uncoupled Cl(-) conductance that can determine the rate of substrate uptake. A mutation analogous to one known to specifically affect Cl(-) movement in EAAT1 has similar effects on Glt(Ph), suggesting that this protein is an excellent structural model for understanding Cl(-) permeation through the EAATs. We also observed an uncoupled Cl(-) conductance in another bacterial EAAT homolog but not in a homolog of the Na(+)/Cl(-)-coupled neurotransmitter transporters.
To test competing models of age-related changes in brain functioning (capacity limitation, neural efficiency, compensatory reorganization, and dedifferentiation), young (n=40; mean age=25.1 years) and elderly (n=18; mean age=74.4 years) subjects performed a delayed item recognition task for visually presented letters with three set sizes (1, 3, or 6 letters) while being scanned with BOLD fMRI. Spatial patterns of brain activity corresponding to either the slope or y-intercept of fMRI signal with respect to set size during memory set encoding, retention delay, or probe stimulus presentation trial phases were compared between elder and young populations. Age effects on fMRI slope during encoding and on fMRI y-intercept during retention delay were consistent with neural inefficiency; age effects on fMRI slope during retention delay were consistent with dedifferentiation. None of the other fMRI signal components showed any detectable age effects. These results suggest that, even within the same task, the nature of brain activation changes with aging can vary based on cognitive process engaged.
Prion diseases are neurodegenerative disorders characterized by accumulation of an aberrantly folded isoform (PrP(Sc)) of the normal prion protein (PrP(C)). Using in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry, we have studied changes in the expression of neuropeptides, acetylcholinesterase and tyrosine hydroxylase in CD1 and FVB wild-type mouse strains, as well as in PrP(C) null mice and in mice overexpressing PrP(C) following intracerebral inoculation with RML or Me7 prions. In the immunohistochemical analysis, neuropeptide Y (NPY), enkephalin and dynorphin-like immunoreactivities increased in mossy fibers of CD1 and FVB mice inoculated with either RML- or Me7 prions, whereas cholecystokinin-like immunoreactivity was decreased. These changes in peptide levels were paralleled by an increase in the transcripts in granule cells for neuropeptide Y, enkephalin, and cholecystokinin. However, the dynorphin transcript was decreased in the granule cells. The changes occurred more rapidly in PrP(C)-overexpressing compared to wild-type mice, and could not be found at all in PrP(C)-knockout mice. These changes in peptide expression, which mostly occur before appearance of symptoms of disease, may reflect attempts to initiate protective and/or regenerative processes.
The modification of histone N-terminal tails by acetylation or deacetylation can alter the interaction between histones and DNA, and thus regulate gene expression. Recent experiments have demonstrated that valproic acid (VPA), a well-known anti-epileptic drug, can directly inhibit histone deacetylase (HDAC) activity and cause the hyperacetylation of histones. Moreover, VPA has been shown to mediate neuronal protection by activating signal transduction pathways and by inhibiting proapoptotic factors. In this study, we attempted to determine whether VPA alleviates cerebral inflammation and perihematomal cell death after intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). Adult male rats received intraperitoneal injections of 300 mg/kg VPA or PBS twice a day after ICH induction. VPA treatment inhibited hematoma expansion, perihematomal cell death, caspase activities, and inflammatory cell infiltration. In addition, VPA treatment had the following expressional effects; it activated the translations of acetylated histone H3, pERK, pAKT, pCREB, and HSP70; up-regulated bcl-2 and bcl-xl but down-regulated bax; and down-regulated the mRNAs of Fas-L, IL-6, MMP-9, MIP-1, MCP-1, and tPA. VPA-treated rats also showed better functional recovery from 1 day to 4 weeks after ICH. Here we show that VPA induces neuroprotection in a murine ICH model and that its neuroprotective effects are mediated by transcriptional activation following HDAC inhibition.
Abnormalities in oxidative metabolism and reductions of thiamine-dependent enzymes accompany many age-related neurodegenerative diseases. Thiamine deficiency (TD) produces a cascade of events including mild impairment of oxidative metabolism, activation of microglia, astrocytes and endothelial cells that leads to neuronal loss in select brain regions. The earliest changes occur in a small, well-defined brain region, the submedial thalamic nucleus (SmTN). In the present study, a micropunch technique was used to evaluate quantitatively the selective regional changes in mRNA and protein levels. To test whether this method can distinguish between changes in vulnerable and non-vulnerable regions, markers for neuronal loss (NeuN) and endothelial cells (eNOS) and inflammation (IL-1beta, IL-6 and TNF-alpha) in SmTN and cortex of control and TD mice were assessed. TD significantly reduced NeuN and increased CD11b, GFAP and ICAM-1 immunoreactivity in SmTN as revealed by immunocytochemistry. When assessed on samples obtained by the micropunch method, NeuN protein declined (-49%), while increased mRNA levels were observed for eNOS (3.7-fold), IL-1beta (43-fold), IL-6 (44-fold) and TNF-alpha (64-fold) in SmTN with TD. The only TD-induced change that occurred in cortex with TD was an increase in TNF-alpha (22-fold) mRNA levels. Immunocytochemical analysis revealed that IL-1beta, IL-6 and TNF-alpha protein levels increased in TD brains and colocalized with glial markers. The consistency of these quantitative results with immunocytochemical measurements validates the micropunch technique. The results demonstrate that TD induces quantitative, distinct inflammatory responses and oxidative stress in vulnerable and non-vulnerable regions that may underlie selective vulnerability.
Calcineurin is an abundant cytosolic protein that is implicated in the modulation of glutamate release. Here we show that the expression level of this enzyme is reduced in primary neuronal cultures treated with beta-amyloid. Parallel experiments in ETNA cell lines expressing SOD1 suggested that the effect of beta-amyloid on calcineurin expression is mediated by oxidative stress. The relevance of the in vitro experiments was assessed by analysis of tissue from patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and tissue from two strains of transgenic mice that mimic aspects of AD. The tissue from the AD brains displayed a pronounced downregulation of calcineurin immunoreactivity in profiles that were negative for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). In the hippocampus of the transgenic animals (which were analyzed in an early stage of the disease) the downregulation of calcineurin was restricted to mossy fiber terminals. A downregulation of the presynaptic pool of calcineurin may contribute to the dysregulation of glutamate release that is considered a hallmark of AD.
A pattern of peripheral neurodegeneration occurs in chronic diabetes mellitus in which an early, but selective retraction of distal axons may occur prior to any irretrievable neuronal loss. Clinical observations suggest that sensory systems undergo damage before those of motor neurons. In this work, we examined the fate of the spinal motor neuron in a long-term chronic model of experimental (streptozotocin-induced) diabetes already known to be associated with substantial loss of sensory neurons. The integrity, physiological function, and critical forms of protein expression of the full motor neuron tree was examined in mice exposed to 8 months of diabetes. Motor neurons developed progressive features of distal loss of axonal terminals but without perikaryal dropout, indicating distal axon retraction. While numbers and caliber of motor neuron perikarya and their nerve trunk axons were preserved, axons developed conduction velocity slowing, loss of motor units and neuromuscular junctions, and compensatory single motor unit action potential enlargement. Four critical proteins directly linked to diabetic complications were altered in motor neurons of diabetic mice: an elevated perikaryal expression of RAGE and PARP, molecules associated with cellular stress, along with concurrent rises in HSP-27 and pAKT, molecules alternatively identified with neuroprotective survival. Moreover, Akt mRNA was increased in diabetic lumbar spinal cords. Overall these findings indicate that although motor neurons are resistant to irretrievable dropout, they are targeted nonetheless by diabetes and gradually withdraw their terminals from distal innervation.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a devastating neurodegenerative disease characterized by the selective loss of neurons in the striatum and cerebral cortex. This study tested the hypothesis that an adenoassociated viral (AAV2) vector encoding for the trophic factor neurturin (NTN) could provide neuroprotection in the rat 3-nitropropionic acid (3NP) model of HD. Rats received AAV2-NTN (CERE-120), AAV2-eGFP or Vehicle, followed 4 weeks later by the mitochondrial toxin 3NP. 3NP induced motor impairments were observed on the rotarod test, the platform test, and a clinical rating scale in all groups. However, each of these deficits was attenuated by AAV2-NTN (CERE-120). Stereological counts revealed a significant protection of NeuN-ir striatal neurons from 3NP toxicity by AAV2-NTN. These data support the concept that AAV2-NTN might be a valuable treatment for patients with Huntington's disease.
Recent evidence suggests that the hippocampus may have a functional role in mediating relapse to cocaine-seeking behavior. Based on the importance of the ventral CA subfields in mediating reward, the present experiment determined the effects of temporary inactivation of the ventral hippocampus on reinstatement of cocaine-seeking in a rodent model of relapse. Male, Sprague-Dawley rats self-administered i.v. cocaine (0.6 mg/kg/infusion) in the presence of discrete conditioned cues (tone+light) in daily 2-h sessions for ten days. Following seven days of extinction sessions in which neither cues nor drug were available, rats underwent four reinstatement tests in a counterbalanced, within-subjects design. Bilateral microinjections of GABA receptor agonists (baclofen/muscimol (B/M; 1.0 mM/0.1 mM) [corrected] into the ventral hippocampus significantly attenuated cue-induced and cocaine-primed reinstatement compared with vehicle microinjections in the same rats. In contrast, injections just outside the ventral hippocampus did not block either form of reinstatement. Furthermore, inactivation failed to affect responding for food reinforcement, baseline extinction responding, or locomotor activity. These data indicate that the ventral hippocampus plays an important role in the relapse to cocaine-seeking behavior and may interact with key limbic structures previously implicated in cocaine addiction.
The current study employed aged and young male Fischer 344 rats to examine the relationship between long-term depression (LTD), age, and memory. Memory performance was measured on two tasks that are sensitive to hippocampal function; inhibitory avoidance and spatial discrimination on the Morris water maze. The slope of the extracellular excitatory postsynaptic field potential was recorded from CA3-CA1 synapses in hippocampal slices. Low frequency stimulation (LFS) induced a modest LTD only in aged animals under standard recording conditions. The decrease in synaptic transmission examined only in aged animals correlated with memory scores on the spatial task and LTD was not observed in aged animals with the highest memory scores. LTD induction was facilitated by increasing the Ca(2+)/Mg(2+) ratio of the recording medium or employing a paired-pulse stimulation paradigm. Age differences disappeared when LFS was delivered under conditions of elevated Ca(2+)/Mg(2+) in the recording medium. Using multiple induction episodes under conditions which facilitate LTD-induction, no age-related difference was observed in the maximum level of LTD. The results indicate that the increased susceptibility to LTD induction is associated with impaired memory and results from a shift in the induction process. The possible relationship between LTD and memory function is discussed.
The psychostimulant, amphetamine (AMPH), and the protein synthesis inhibitor, anisomycin (ANI), have been shown to modulate the consolidation and reconsolidation of several types of learning. To determine whether Pavlovian conditioned approach (PCA) is modulated in a similar manner, we examined the effects of post-training and post-reactivation administration of both AMPH and ANI on memory for PCA. Male Long-Evans rats received PCA training sessions during which presentations of a CS+ were followed by sucrose delivery. AMPH (1 mg/kg, s.c.) injected immediately but not 6h after the first training session enhanced PCA behavior. ANI (150 mg/kg, s.c.) injected immediately but not 3h after the first training session impaired PCA behavior. This impairment was not due to the development of a conditioned taste aversion. To examine whether PCA can also be modulated by post-reactivation administration of AMPH and ANI, rats were given an injection of AMPH, ANI, or vehicle immediately after a memory reactivation session. Upon testing, the behavior of both the AMPH- and the ANI-treated rats was unaffected. This result remained consistent when the experiment was repeated with changes to various behavioral parameters (i.e., amount of training, length of memory reactivation). These findings indicate that AMPH and ANI act during the post-training but not the post-reactivation period to enhance and impair, respectively, the learning of PCA. This suggests that the consolidation of PCA can be modulated in a manner comparable to other types of learned associations, but once learned, the memory appears to be relatively robust and stable.
The effect of excitotoxic lesions of dorsal vs. ventral hippocampus on the acquisition and expression of auditory trace fear conditioning was examined in two studies. In Experiment 1, animals received excitotoxic lesions of either the dorsal or ventral hippocampus or sham surgeries one week prior to conditioning, and were tested 24 h later. In Experiment 2, animals received excitotoxic lesions of either the dorsal or ventral hippocampus or sham surgeries 24 h after training, and were tested one week after surgery. Both pre- and post-training lesions of ventral hippocampus impaired the acquisition and expression, respectively, of auditory trace fear conditioning. Pre-training lesions of dorsal hippocampus had no effect on the acquisition of trace fear conditioning, while post-training lesions of dorsal hippocampus dramatically impaired expression during subsequent testing. Although in some cases animals with lesions of ventral hippocampus exhibited locomotor hyperactivity, it is unlikely that the pattern of observed deficits can be attributed to this effect. Collectively these data suggest that the dorsal and ventral hippocampus may contribute differentially to the mnemonic processes underlying fear trace conditioning.
Both mature and precursor forms of neurotrophins regulate nerve development, survival and plasticity. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) synthesis and secretion in turn are regulated by neuronal activity, such as epilepsy. Further, neurotrophins themselves are regulated by neurotrophin levels. Neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) and BDNF in particular can be co-expressed and each can regulate the levels of the other. This regulation is thought to be mediated through receptor tyrosine kinase (Trk) activity. It is not known whether this neurotrophin-neurotrophin interaction occurs in hippocampal tissue in vivo, or how it is influenced by neuronal activation. In this study, we explored the reciprocal influences of intraventricular infusions of NT-3 and BDNF in nave and kindled hippocampi of rats using Western blotting. We confirm that hippocampal kindling resulted in a significant increase in levels of BDNF both in cytochrome C (control) infused and NT-3 infused kindled rats. However, NT-3 infusion significantly reduced BDNF levels in both kindled and non-kindled hippocampi compared to their cytochrome C infused counterparts. These results are consistent with our earlier studies demonstrating lowered levels of TrkA and TrkC (NGF modulates BDNF levels via TrkA) following chronic NT-3 infusion. Although kindling led to an increase in BDNF, this was not accompanied by any detectable change in the levels of proBDNF. However, there was a significant increase in proBDNF following NT-3 infusions, suggesting NT-3 may reduce proBDNF processing. In contrast, neither NT-3 nor proNT-3 levels were affected by kindling or chronic BDNF infusions, consistent with down-regulation of TrkB by chronic BDNF infusion. Thus, modulation of BDNF by NT-3, likely mediated by Trk receptors, occurs in nave and kindled adult rat hippocampus.
Neurotoxicity induced by beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta) involves glutamate toxicity, resulting from overactivation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors and elevation of intracellular calcium. However, the heterogeneity of the NMDA receptors, frequently composed of NR1 and NR2A-D subunits, has been less studied. Thus, we determined the contribution of NMDA receptor subtypes on Abeta(1-40) toxicity in HEK293 cells transiently expressing NR1/NR2A or NR1/NR2B subunits. Analysis of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release and trypan blue exclusion revealed an increase in Abeta(1-40) toxicity upon NR1/NR2A expression, compared to NR1/NR2B, indicating loss of plasma membrane integrity. Furthermore, Abeta(1-40) decreased intracellular ATP in cells expressing NR1/NR2A. MK-801 ((+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-imine maleate), a noncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonist, partially prevented the decrease in cell viability and the energy impairment. These differences were not accounted for by the activation of caspases 2, 3, 8 and 9 or calpains or by DNA fragmentation, excluding the hypothesis of apoptosis. Functional NR1/NR2A and NR1/NR2B receptor subtypes were further evidenced by single-cell calcium imaging. Stimulation of NR1/NR2A receptors with NMDA/glycine revealed an increase in intracellular calcium in cells pre-exposed to Abeta(1-40). Opposite effects were observed upon activation of NR1/NR2B receptors. These results suggest that NR1/NR2A-composed NMDA receptors mediate necrotic cell death in HEK293 cells exposed to Abeta(1-40) through changes in calcium homeostasis.
The movements of the intestine shift between different motor patterns, including between propulsion and mixing, but there is little information concerning mechanisms that may lead to changes in the patterns of motility. We have investigated the influence on intestinal motility of drugs that affect the after-hyperpolarization potential (AHP) of intrinsic primary afferent neurons (IPANs). The current of the AHP is carried by the intermediate conductance, calcium-activated, potassium (IK) channel. In anaesthetized rats, the IK channel blocker, 1-[(2-chlorophenyl)diphenylmethyl]-1H-pyrazole (0.05-1 mg kg(-1), i.v.) disrupted the regular propulsive pressure waves that occur in the small intestine and reduced propulsion of the contents (after 1 mg kg(-1), the fluid propelled was &lt;25% of control). If the propulsion in the intestine was regular, the IK channel opener, 5,6-dichloro-1-ethyl-2-benzimidazolinone (DC-EBIO, 0.1 mg kg(-1) h(-1)) had no effect. DC-EBIO (0.1 mg kg(-1) h(-1)) restored propulsive activity after the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, Nomega-nitro-l-arginine had changed motility to a mixing pattern. We suggest that the AHP determines the synchrony of action potential firing in synaptically coupled IPANs, and that this synchrony influences the patterns of firing of muscle motor neurons, and hence the pattern of contraction of the muscle and whether the pattern is predominantly propulsive or predominantly mixing.
This review focuses on the gastrointestinal tract's control of appetite and interventions directed to the gut that are effective in the treatment of obesity. It examines the evidence linking gut hormones to the control of both appetite and upper gastrointestinal motility, the evidence that stomach function is altered and contributes to satiation in obesity and outlines the principles of therapy for obesity which are directed at the gastrointestinal tract. These therapies impair fat absorption or alter stomach functions through pharmacological, device, endoscopic, or surgical approaches. Gastroenterologists need to understand the role of factors controlling appetite in order to effectively manage the increasing number of obese patients and the ways the gut function may be altered as a result of the treatments and their complications.
Although substantial evidence suggests that the prefrontal cortex (PFC) implements processes that are critical for accurate episodic memory judgments, the specific roles of different PFC subregions remain unclear. Here, we used event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging to distinguish between prefrontal activity related to operations that (1) influence processing of retrieval cues based on current task demands, or (2) are involved in monitoring the outputs of retrieval. Fourteen participants studied auditory words spoken by a male or female speaker and completed memory tests in which the stimuli were unstudied foil words and studied words spoken by either the same speaker at study, or the alternate speaker. On &quot;general&quot; test trials, participants were to determine whether each word was studied, regardless of the voice of the speaker, whereas on &quot;specific&quot; test trials, participants were to additionally distinguish between studied words that were spoken in the same voice or a different voice at study. Thus, on specific test trials, participants were explicitly required to attend to voice information in order to evaluate each test item. Anterior (right BA 10), dorsolateral prefrontal (right BA 46), and inferior frontal (bilateral BA 47/12) regions were more active during specific than during general trials. Activation in anterior and dorsolateral PFC was enhanced during specific test trials even in response to unstudied items, suggesting that activation in these regions was related to the differential processing of retrieval cues in the two tasks. In contrast, differences between specific and general test trials in inferior frontal regions (bilateral BA 47/12) were seen only for studied items, suggesting a role for these regions in post-retrieval monitoring processes. Results from this study are consistent with the idea that different PFC subregions implement distinct, but complementary processes that collectively support accurate episodic memory judgments.
Language production and perception imply motor system recruitment. Therefore, language should obey the theory of shared motor representation between self and other, by means of mirror-like systems. These mirror-like systems (referring to single-unit recordings in animals) show the property to be recruited both when accomplishing and when perceiving a goal-directed action, whatever the sensory modality may be. This hypothesis supposes that a neural network for self-awareness is involved to distinguish speech production from speech listening. We used fMRI to test this assumption in 12 healthy subjects, who performed two different block-design experiments. The first experiment showed involvement of a lateral mirror-like network in speech listening, including ventral premotor cortex, superior temporal sulcus and the inferior parietal lobule (IPL). The activity of this mirror-like network is associated with the perception of an intelligible speech. The second experiment looked at a self-awareness network. It showed involvement of a medial resting-state network, including the medial parietal and medial prefrontal cortices, during the 'self-generated voice' condition, as opposed to passive speech listening. Our results support the fact that deactivation of this medial network, in association with modulation of the activity of the IPL (part of the mirror-like network previously described), is linked to self-awareness in speech processing. Overall, these results support the idea that self-awareness is present when distinguishing between speech production and speech listening situations, and may depend on these two different parieto-frontal networks.
Migraine is a chronic neurological disease with heterogeneous characteristics resulting in a range of symptom profiles, burden and disability. It affects nearly 12% of the adult population in Western countries and up to 22% of the Brazilian population, imposing considerable suffering as well as personal, economic and social losses. The pharmacological treatment of migraine is divided into preventive and acute treatment. A better comprehension of migraine pathophysiology, as well as the finding of novel molecular targets, has led to a growing number of upcoming therapeutic opportunities. The same is true of cluster headache, which affects only about 0.07%-0.4% of most populations. This review focuses on current and emerging agents and procedures for the treatment of migraine and cluster headache.
Recent epidemiological investigations have demonstrated that migraine, and more generally primary headaches, are underdiagnosed and poorly treated. To tackle and resolve this problem, in addition to identifying efficient screening means and reliable disability measurement tools, it is crucial to improve communication between physicians and patients. In particular, physicians should be willing and have time to establish a relationship of active and mutual cooperation with their patients and should do so through a number of inescapable steps: listening to patients, understanding their needs, identifying with their condition, giving them explanations and information, reassuring their concerns, advising them on what should be done, making sure that they have correctly understood what they have been told, finding out whether they want to be involved in decision-making and choosing a treatment. Patients must be in a position to freely express their opinions, with no hurry and without fear. Indeed, the time spent with patients, as Graham pointed out as early as 40 years ago, is the most important ingredient of migraine therapy. Proper measures should be taken to overcome the two major obstacles that stand in the way of a good patient-physician relationship: a physician's lack of adequate skills and the organisational absurdities of the health system.
The neuroimaging of experimental and clinical pain has revolutionised our understanding of the physiological responses to pain and paved the way for a better understanding of the pathophysiology of chronic pain syndromes. Extensive research on the central mechanisms regarding the sensory-discriminative dimensions of pain have revealed a complex network of cortical and subcortical brain structures involved in the transmission and integration of pain, the so-called pain matrix. Although brain imaging and pharmacological studies have generated some insight into the circuitry that may be involved in the generation of chronic pain symptoms, further research into brain imaging of chronic pain is clearly warranted. However, modern neuroimaging suggests that the chronification of pain (and headaches) involves functional and structural plasticity of both the central and peripheral nervous system.

Myelination organizes axons into distinct domains that allow nerve impulses to propagate in a saltatory manner. The edges of the myelin sheath are sealed at the paranodes by axon-glial junctions that have a crucial role in organizing the axonal cytoskeleton. Here we propose a model in which the myelinated axons depend on the axon-glial junctions to stabilize the cytoskeletal transition at the paranodes. Thus paranodal regions are likely to be particularly susceptible to damage induced by demyelinating diseases such as multiple sclerosis.
Estrogens exert a variety of modulatory effects on the structure and function of the nervous system. In particular, 17 beta-estradiol was found to affect GABAergic inhibition in adult animals but its action on GABAergic currents during development has not been elucidated. In the present study, we investigated the effect of 17 beta-estradiol on hippocampal neurons developing in vitro. In this model, mIPSC kinetics showed acceleration with age along with increased alpha1 subunit expression, similarly as in vivo. Long-term treatment with 17 beta-estradiol increased mIPSC amplitudes in neurons cultured for 6-8 and 9-11DIV and prolonged the mIPSC decaying phase only in the 9-11DIV group. The time needed for the onset of 17 beta-estradiol effect on mIPSC amplitude was approximately 48 h. In the period of 9-11DIV, treatment with 17 beta-estradiol strongly reduced the tonic conductance activated by low GABA concentrations. The effects of 17 beta-estradiol on mIPSCs and tonic conductance were not correlated with any change in expression of considered GABAAR subunits (alpha1-3, alpha5-6, gamma2) while alpha4 and delta subunits were at the detection limit. In conclusion, we provide evidence that 17 beta-estradiol differentially affects the phasic and tonic components of GABAergic currents in neurons developing in vitro.
Kainate type of glutamate receptors (KARs) modulate synaptic transmission in a developmentally regulated manner at several synapses in the brain. Previous studies have shown that KARs depress glutamatergic transmission at CA3-CA1 synapses in the hippocampus and these receptors are tonically active during early postnatal development. Here we use the GluR5 subunit specific agonist ATPA to further characterize the role of KARs in the modulation of synaptic transmission and plasticity in area CA1 during the first two weeks of life. We find that the depressant effect of ATPA on evoked fEPSPs/EPSCs is smaller in the neonate (P3-P6) than in the juvenile (P14-P18) rat CA1, due to endogenous activity of KAR in the neonate. Further, in the neonate but not juvenile CA1, ATPA downregulates action-potential independent transmission (mEPSCs) and its effects are dependent on protein kinase C activity. ATPA-induced depression of fEPSPs in the neonate occludes the presynaptic component of long-term depression (LTD). In contrast, at P14-P18, ATPA prevents LTD indirectly via GABAergic mechanisms. These data show that GluR5 signaling mechanisms are developmentally regulated and suggest distinct functional role for KARs in the modulation of synaptic transmission and plasticity at different stages of development.
Alterations in central monoaminergic neurotransmission are important in the actions of many antidepressants. This study tested the hypothesis that tonic elevation of noradrenergic (NA) neurotransmission in medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) by chronic treatment with the selective norepinephrine (NE) reuptake blocker desipramine (DMI) may contribute to the beneficial cognitive effects of this antidepressant drug (AD). Male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with DMI acutely (15 mg/kg, i.p.) or chronically for 21 days (7.5 mg/kg/day via osmotic minipump) before assessing performance on an attentional set-shifting test. The extradimensional set-shifting component of this test reflects a process of cognitive flexibility that is dependent upon mPFC, and that we have shown previously to be facilitated by NA activity in mPFC. Microdialysis was performed to measure NE release in mPFC concurrently with behavioral testing. Acute DMI treatment produced an increase in extracellular NE levels in mPFC, and a modest improvement in overall performance across all task stages of the attentional set-shifting test, but failed to produce a significant improvement in any of the individual specific tasks comprising the test sequence. Chronic DMI treatment tonically elevated basal extracellular NE levels in mPFC, associated with a significant improvement in performance specifically on the extradimensional set-shifting component of the test. There was also a significant reduction in set loss errors in rats treated chronically with DMI. Hence, tonic elevation of NA transmission in mPFC by chronic DMI treatment was associated with a time-dependent facilitation of cognitive flexibility that may contribute to the mechanism whereby chronic treatment with ADs, specifically NE reuptake blockers, may exert a beneficial therapeutic effect on cognition in depressed patients.
Although amphetamine-derived stimulants are widely associated with neurotoxicity, it is poorly understood whether extended exposure to such drugs produces lasting effects on neurocognitive function. This study investigates whether chronically self-administered d-amphetamine, methamphetamine (MA), or methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) leads to residual deficits in a rodent test of sustained visual attention and impulsivity. Rats were trained on a five-choice serial reaction time task and subsequently trained to self-administer d-amphetamine, MA, or MDMA (all 50 microg/infusion), intravenously, for 3 weeks. Effects on performance were evaluated 24 h after drug discontinuation and for several weeks thereafter, including various challenge sessions to increase the attentional demands of the task. The results indicate divergent patterns of self-administration among the three drugs tested with increasing rates of intake evident in rats self-administering amphetamine, but not MA, and widely fluctuating rates in the MDMA group. Withdrawal of MA resulted in severe behavioral disturbances, with significant effects on accuracy, omissions, response latency, and impulsivity that lasted up to 2 weeks in some cases. Amphetamine and MDMA withdrawal were associated with similar, but shorter-lasting effects on performance. However, when challenged with a high event rate session 6 weeks after drug discontinuation, rats previously exposed to MDMA continued to show deficits in the accuracy and speed of responding. These findings show that amphetamine-derived stimulants have both short- and long-term consequences for psychomotor functioning. The demonstration of residual deficits in rats chronically exposed to MDMA raises some concern about the potential harm caused by this drug in human ecstasy users.
Brain corticotropin-releasing factor/urocortin (CRF/Ucn) systems are hypothesized to control feeding, with central administration of 'type 2' urocortins producing delayed anorexia. The present study sought to identify the receptor subtype, brain site, and behavioral mode of action through which Ucn 3 reduces nocturnal food intake in rats. Non-food-deprived male Wistar rats (n=176) were administered Ucn 3 into the lateral (LV) or fourth ventricle, or into the ventromedial or paraventricular nuclei of the hypothalamus (VMN, PVN) or the medial amygdala (MeA), regions in which Ucn 3 is expressed in proximity to CRF(2) receptors. LV Ucn 3 suppressed ingestion during the third-fourth post-injection hours. LV Ucn 3 anorexia was reversed by cotreatment with astressin(2)-B, a selective CRF(2) antagonist and not observed following equimole subcutaneous or fourth ventricle administration. Bilateral intra-VMN and intra-PVN infusion, more potently than LV infusion, reduced the quantity (57-73%) and duration of ingestion (32-68%) during the third-fourth post-infusion hours. LV, intra-PVN and intra-VMN infusion of Ucn 3 slowed the eating rate and reduced intake by prolonging the post-meal interval. Intra-VMN Ucn 3 reduced feeding bout size, and intra-PVN Ucn 3 reduced the regularity of eating from pellet to pellet. Ucn 3 effects were behaviorally specific, because minimal effective anorectic Ucn 3 doses did not alter drinking rate or promote a conditioned taste aversion, and site-specific, because intra-MeA Ucn 3 produced a nibbling pattern of more, but smaller meals without altering total intake. The results implicate the VMN and PVN of the hypothalamus as sites for Ucn 3-CRF(2) control of food intake.
Wernicke's encephalopathy (WE) is characterized by lesions in thalamus, hypothalamus (including mammillary nuclei), and inferior colliculi, results in serious disabilities, has an etiology of thiamine deficiency, is treatable with thiamine, and occurs most commonly with alcoholism. Despite decades of study, whether alcohol exposure exacerbates the neuropathology or retards its resolution remains controversial. To examine patterns of brain damage and recovery resulting from thiamine deprivation with and without alcohol exposure, we conducted in vivo magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) at 3 T in alcohol-preferring (P) rats, which had voluntarily consumed large amounts of alcohol before thiamine manipulation. A total of 18 adult male P rats (nine alcohol-exposed) received a thiamine-deficient diet for 2 weeks: 10 (five alcohol-exposed) received intraperitoneal (i.p.) pyrithiamine (PT) and eight (four alcohol-exposed) received i.p. thiamine supplementation. Neurological signs developed by day 14. Rats were scanned before thiamine depletion and 18 and 35 days after thiamine repletion. Two-dimensional J-resolved MRS single-voxel spectra with water reference were collected in a voxel subtending the thalamus; metabolite quantification was corrected for voxel tissue content. MRI identified significant enlargement of dorsal ventricles and increase in signal intensities in thalamus, inferior colliculi, and mammillary nuclei of PT compared with thiamine-treated (TT) groups from MRI 1-2, followed by significant normalization from MRI 2-3 in thalamus and colliculi, but not mammillary nuclei and lateral ventricles. Voxel-by-voxel analysis revealed additional hyperintense signal clusters in the dorsal and ventral hippocampus and enlargement of the fourth ventricle. MRS showed a significant decline and then partial recovery in thalamic N-acetylaspartate, a marker of neuronal integrity, in PT compared with TT rats, with no change detected in creatine, choline, or glutamate. PT rats with prior alcohol exposure exhibited attenuated recovery in the thalamus and arrested growth of the corpus callosum; further, two of the five alcohol-exposed PT rats died prematurely. Parenchymal and ventricular changes with thiamine manipulation concur with human radiological signs of WE. The enduring macrostructural and neurochemical abnormalities involving critical nodes of Papez circuit carry liabilities for development of amnesia and incomplete recovery from other cognitive and motor functions subserved by the affected neural systems.
The selection of objects in the visual environment is important in everyday life when acting in a goal-directed manner. Here we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to investigate brain activity while healthy subjects (N=15) selectively reached to grasp a three-dimensional (3D) target stimulus presented either in isolation or in the presence of 3D non-target stimuli. A pneumatic MRI compatible apparatus was designed to precisely control the presentation of 3D graspable stimuli within the scanner. During scanning subjects were instructed to reach and grasp towards a target presented at an unknown location either in isolation or flanked by two distractor objects. Results indicated that reaching towards and grasping the target object in the presence of other non-target stimuli was associated with greater activation within the contralateral primary motor cortex and the precuneus as compared to the execution of reach-to-grasp movements towards the target presented in isolation. We conclude that the presence of non-targets evokes a differential level of neural activity within areas responsible for the planning and execution of selective reach-to-grasp movement.
Adolescents with developmental dyscalculia (DD) but no other impairments were examined with neuropsychological tests and with event-related brain potentials (ERPs). A matched control group and an adult control group were tested as well. Behavioural and ERP markers of the magnitude representation were examined in a task where subjects decided whether visually presented Hindu-Arabic digits were smaller or larger than 5. There was a normal behavioural numerical distance effect (better performance for digits closer to the reference number than for digits further away from it) in DD. This suggests that semantic magnitude relations depend on a phenomenologically (nearly) normal magnitude representation in DD, at least in the range of single-digit numbers. However, minor discrepancies between DD subjects and controls suggest that the perception of the magnitude of single digits may be slightly impaired in DD. Early ERP distance effects were similar in DD and in control subjects. In contrast, between 400 and 440 ms there was a focused right-parietal ERP distance effect in controls, but not in DD. This suggests that early, more automatic processing of digits was similar in both groups, and between-group processing differences arose later, during more complex controlled processing. This view is supported by signs of decelerated executive functioning in developmental dyscalculia. Further, DD subjects did not differ from controls in general mental rotation and in body parts knowledge, but were markedly impaired in mental finger rotation, finger knowledge, and tactile performance.
Inflammation is an important pathophysiologic mechanism of injury induced by intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). The ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) regulates the inflammatory responses via the up-regulation of several pro-inflammatory molecules. In this study, we determined that a potent proteasome inhibitor, bortezomib, exerted therapeutic effects in experimental model of ICH. Either bortezomib (0.05, 0.2, 0.5, 1mg/kg) or vehicle was intravenously administered 2h after ICH induction. The high doses of bortezomib caused high mortality rates. Bortezomib at 0.2 mg/kg reduced the early hematoma growth and alleviated hematoma volume and brain edema at 3 days after ICH, compared with the ICH-vehicle group. The numbers of myeloperoxidase(+) neutrophils, Ox42(+) microglia, and TUNEL(+) cells in the perihematomal regions were decreased by bortezomib. Bortezomib induced significant decrements of mRNA expression of TNF-alpha and IL-6. The production of iNOS and COX2 was also reduced significantly by bortezomib. We concluded that the early treatment with bortezomib induced a reduction in the early hematoma growth and mitigated the development of brain edema, coupled with a marked inhibitory effect on inflammation in ICH.

Murine neuronal networks, derived from embryonic frontal cortex (FC) tissue grown on microelectrode arrays, were used to investigate zinc toxicity at concentrations ranging from 20 to 2000 microM total zinc acetate added to the culture medium. Continual multi-channel recording of spontaneous action potential generation allowed a quantitative analysis of the temporal evolution of network spike activity generation at specific zinc acetate concentrations. Cultures responded with immediate concentration-dependent excitation lasting from 5 to 50 min and consisting of increased spiking and enhanced, coordinated bursting, followed by irreversible activity decay. The time to 50% and 90% activity loss was concentration dependent, highly reproducible, and formed linear functions in log-log plots. Above 100 microM total zinc acetate, the activity loss was associated with massive cell swelling, blebbing, and even vigorous neuronal cell lysing. Glia showed stress, but did not participate in the extensive cell swelling. Network activity loss generally preceded morphological changes. Cultures pretreated with the GABA(A) receptor antagonists bicuculline (40 microM) and picrotoxin (1mM) lacked the initial excitation phase. This suggests that zinc-induced excitation may be mediated by interfering with GABA inhibition. Partial network protection was achieved by stopping spontaneous activity with either tetrodotoxin (200 nM) or lidocaine (250 microM). However, recovery was not complete and slow deterioration of network activity continued over 6-h periods. Removal of zinc by early medium changes showed irreversible, catastrophic network failure to develop in a concentration-dependent time window between 50% and 90% activity loss.
The rapid development of transgenic mouse models of neurodegenerative diseases, in parallel with the rapidly expanding growth of MR techniques for assessing in vivo, non-invasive, neurochemistry, offers the potential to develop novel markers of disease progression and therapy. In this review we discuss the interpretation and utility of MRS for the study of these transgenic mouse and rodent models of neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's (AD), Huntington's (HD) and Parkinson's disease (PD). MRS studies can provide a wealth of information on various facets of in vivo neurochemistry, including neuronal health, gliosis, osmoregulation, energy metabolism, neuronal-glial cycling, and molecular synthesis rates. These data provide information on the etiology, natural history and therapy of these diseases. Mouse models enable longitudinal studies with useful time frames for evaluation of neuroprotection and therapeutic interventions using many of the potential MRS markers. In addition, the ability to manipulate the genome in these models allows better mechanistic understanding of the roles of the observable neurochemicals, such as N-acetylaspartate, in the brain. The argument is made that use of MRS, combined with correlative histology and other MRI techniques, will enable objective markers with which potential therapies can be followed in a quantitative fashion.


Activation of histamine H3 receptors (H3Rs) reduces inflammation and nociception, but the existence of H3Rs on peripheral innervation has never been demonstrated. Here we use antibodies to locate H3Rs in whisker pads, hairy and glabrous hind paw skin, dorsal root ganglia (DRGs), and spinal cords of rats, wild type mice, and H3R knockout (H3KO) mice. Although H3Rs have been hypothesized to be on C and sympathetic fibers, H3R-like immunoreactivity (H3R-LI) was only detected on presumptive periarterial A delta fibers and on A beta fibers that terminated in Meissner's corpuscles and as lanceolate endings around hair follicles. The H3R-positive periarterial fibers were thin-caliber and coexpressed immunoreactivity for calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), substance P, acid sensing ion channel 3, and 200 kDa neurofilament protein (NF). H3R-LI was also detected on epidermal keratinocytes and Merkel cells, but not on Merkel endings, C fibers, any other A delta fibers, or sympathetic fibers. In DRGs, H3R-LI was preponderantly on medium to large neurons coexpressing NF-LI and mostly CGRP-LI. In dorsal horn, CGRP-positive fibers with and without H3R-LI ramified extensively in lamina II; many of the former formed a plexus in lamina V. Low levels of H3R-LI were also present on A beta fibers penetrating superficial and into deeper laminae. The distribution of H3R-LI was similar in rats and wild type mice, but was eliminated or strongly reduced in A delta fibers and A beta fibers, respectively, in H3KO mice. Taken with recently published behavioral results, the present findings suggest that periarterial, peptidergic, H3R-containing A delta fibers may be sources of high threshold mechanical nociception.
This study tests the hypothesis that central sensitization initiated by nociceptive input can be maintained by repeated brief innocuous peripheral inputs. Capsaicin was injected intradermally into the hind paw of adult rats. Three different types of daily cutaneous mechanical stimulations (vibration, soft brush, or pressure) were applied to the capsaicin-injected paw for a period of 2 weeks. Daily stimulation consisted of a 10-s stimulation repeated every 30s for 30 min. Foot withdrawal thresholds to von Frey stimuli applied to the paw were measured once a day for 4 weeks. The capsaicin-only group (control rats without daily stimulation) showed hyperalgesia lasting for 3 days. In contrast, hyperalgesia persisted for 2 weeks in the group that received vibration stimulation. Neither the soft brush nor the pressure group showed a significant difference in mechanical threshold from the control group (capsaicin only). The vibration-induced prolonged hyperalgesia was significantly reduced by systemic injection of ifenprodil, an NMDA-receptor antagonist, but it was not influenced by either an AMPA-receptor blocker or a reactive oxygen species (ROS) scavenger. Furthermore, a dorsal column lesion did not interfere with the prolongation of hyperalgesia. Data suggest that vibration-induced prolongation of hyperalgesia is mediated by spinal NMDA-receptors, and a similar mechanism may underlie some forms of chronic pain with no obvious causes, such as complex regional pain syndrome type 1 (CRPS-1).
Although the brain was considered as an insulin-insensitive organ, recent studies have shown that insulin receptors exist in the brain and insulin modulates some of the brain tasks. Insulin and its receptor are found in specific areas of CNS with a variety of region-specific functions different from its direct glucose regulation in the periphery. The hippocampus and cerebral cortex distributed insulin/insulin receptor has been shown to be involved in brain cognitive functions. The improving effect of insulin on spatial memory acquisition has been shown. In the present study, the effect of insulin microinjection into the CA1 region of rat hippocampus on spatial memory consolidation and retrieval has been investigated. Insulin in 12 MU (but not in 0.5 and 6 MU) improved both memory retrieval and consolidation.
Stressful events during certain neonatal periods may increase the vulnerability of an individual to develop psychopathology and/or drug dependence later in life. Therefore, in the present study, we assessed activity levels, emotionality, sensitivity to the effects of morphine, as well as expression of proenkephalin and prodynorphin in several brain regions in 35 and 90-day-old male mice, subjected to postnatal manipulation consisting in brief exposures to clean bedding (CB). In comparison with controls, CB mice showed reduced emotionality expressed as percentage of time in open arms of the elevated plus maze both at 35 days of life and in adulthood. Increased nociceptive threshold was also present in both time points measured. Conversely, higher locomotor activity was recorded in 35 days of life but not in adulthood. Analysis of film autoradiograms revealed no changes in prodynorphin mRNA level, but statistically significant decrease in the level of proenkephalin mRNA in striatum in young CB mice in comparison with young controls; no difference was observed between adult CB and control animals. CB adult mice also showed hypersensitivity to the rewarding effect of morphine in comparison with controls in the place preference test. In conclusion, our results revealed that in the critical period of development the effects of manipulation were evident, not only on behavioral responses but also on the neurochemical markers considered in the present research. Postnatal manipulation could induce changes in the dynamic neuronal processes occurring during development with long-term behavioral effects.
A history of dieting is common in individuals suffering from eating disorders for which depression and mood disturbances are also comorbid. We investigated the effect of a history of caloric restriction (HCR) in rats that involved cyclic food restriction and refeeding with varying levels of access to palatable food (PF) on: 1) responses to the SSRI, fluoxetine; 2) monoamine levels in brain regions central to the control of feeding, reward, and mood regulation; and 3) behavioral tests of anxiety and depression. HCR coupled with intermittent but not daily access to PF exaggerated rats' anorectic response to fluoxetine (p&lt;0.05); was associated with a significant 71% and 58% reduction of 5-HT and dopamine, respectively, in the medial prefrontal cortex; and induced behaviors consistent with models of depression. HCR, irrespective of access to PF, abolished the strong association between 5-HT and dopamine turnover in the nucleus accumbens in control rats (r=0.71 vs. -0.06, p&lt;0.01). Access to PF, irrespective of HCR, reduced hypothalamic dopamine. Together, these findings suggest that a history of frequent food restriction-induced weight fluctuation imposes neurochemical changes that negatively impact feeding and mood regulation.
Anabolic steroid and peptide hormones or growth factors are utilized to increase the performance of athletes of professional or amateur sports. Despite their well-documented adverse effects, the use of some of these agents has significantly grown and has been extended also to non-athletes with the aim to improve appearance or to counteract ageing. Pre-clinical studies and epidemiological observations in patients with an excess of hormone production or in patients chronically treated with hormones/growth factors for various pathologies have warned about the potential risk of cancer development and progression which may be also associated to the use of certain doping agents. Anabolic steroids have been described to provoke liver tumours; growth hormone or high levels of its mediator insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) have been associated with colon, breast, and prostate cancers. Actually, IGF-1 promotes cell cycle progression and inhibits apoptosis either by triggering other growth factors or by interacting with pathways which have an established role in carcinogenesis and cancer promotion. More recently, the finding that erythropoietin (Epo) may promote angiogenesis and inhibit apoptosis or modulate chemo- or radiosensitivity in cancer cells expressing the Epo receptor, raised the concern that the use of recombinant Epo to increase tissue oxygenation might favour tumour survival and aggressiveness. Cancer risk associated to doping might be higher than that of patients using hormones/growth factors as replacement therapy, since enormous doses are taken by the athletes often for a long period of time. Moreover, these substances are often used in combination with other licit or illicit drugs and this renders almost unpredictable all the possible adverse effects including cancer. Anyway, athletes should be made aware that long-term treatment with doping agents might increase the risk of developing cancer.
The water channel, Aquaporin-9 (AQP9) is enriched in selected neuronal populations and is unique its ability to act as a lactate-glycerol channel supplying neurons with alternative fuel under ischaemic conditions. AQP9 was detected in RGC-5 cells, a retinal ganglion cell-line, primary RGCs, and retina by Western blotting, real-time PCR (RT-PCR) and immunohistochemistry. RGC-5 cells subjected to a hypotonic stress increased their cell volume that was blocked by known inhibitor of AQP9 (phloretin (40 microM)). RGC-5 cells subjected to hypoxia, showed an up-regulation in AQP9 expression as judged by Western blotting and RT-PCR. Similarly, hypotonic shock (50%) increased AQP9 expression as determined by RT-PCR. AQP9 is involved in energy balance as a glycerol-lactate channel and also appears to regulate cell volume in retinal ganglion neurons. This water channel may play a key role in retinal ganglion pathology.
Invertebrate venoms have attracted considerable interest as a potential source of bioactive substances, especially neurotoxins. These molecules have proved to be extremely useful tools for the understanding of synaptic transmission events, and they have contributed to the design of novel drugs for the treatment of neurological disorders and pain. In this context, as epilepsy involves neuronal substrates, which are sites of action of many neurotoxins; venoms may be particularly useful for antiepileptic drug (AED) research. Epilepsy is a chronic disease whose treatment consists of controlling seizures with antiepileptics that very often induce strong undesirable side effects that may limit treatment. Here, we review the vast, but yet unexplored, world of neurotoxins from invertebrates used as probes in pharmacological screening for novel and less toxic antiepileptics. We briefly review (1) the molecular basis of epilepsy, as well as the sites of action of commonly used anticonvulsants (we bring a comprehensive review of the elements from invertebrate venoms which are mostly studied in neuroscience research and may be useful for drug development); (2) peptides from conus snails; (3) peptides and polyamine toxins from spiders and wasps; and (4) peptides from scorpions.
For many years, researchers have suggested that abnormalities in circadian rhythms may underlie the development of mood disorders such as bipolar disorder (BPD), major depression and seasonal affective disorder (SAD). Furthermore, some of the treatments that are currently employed to treat mood disorders are thought to act by shifting or &quot;resetting&quot; the circadian clock, including total sleep deprivation (TSD) and bright light therapy. There is also reason to suspect that many of the mood stabilizers and antidepressants used to treat these disorders may derive at least some of their therapeutic efficacy by affecting the circadian clock. Recent genetic, molecular and behavioral studies implicate individual genes that make up the clock in mood regulation. As well, important functions of these genes in brain regions and neurotransmitter systems associated with mood regulation are becoming apparent. In this review, the evidence linking circadian rhythms and mood disorders, and what is known about the underlying biology of this association, is presented.
The explicit solution to the spectral problem of quantum graphs found recently by Dabaghian and Blmel [Phys. Rev. E 68, 055201(R) (2003); 70, 046206 (2004); JETP Lett. 77, 530 (2003)] is used to produce an exact periodic orbit theory description for the probability distributions of spectral statistics, including the distribution for the nearest neighbor separations sn = kn - kn-1, and the distribution of the spectral oscillations around the average, deltakn=kn - kn.
A well-defined stochastic theory for neural activity, which permits the calculation of arbitrary statistical moments and equations governing them, is a potentially valuable tool for theoretical neuroscience. We produce such a theory by analyzing the dynamics of neural activity using field theoretic methods for nonequilibrium statistical processes. Assuming that neural network activity is Markovian, we construct the effective spike model, which describes both neural fluctuations and response. This analysis leads to a systematic expansion of corrections to mean field theory, which for the effective spike model is a simple version of the Wilson-Cowan equation. We argue that neural activity governed by this model exhibits a dynamical phase transition which is in the universality class of directed percolation. More general models (which may incorporate refractoriness) can exhibit other universality classes, such as dynamic isotropic percolation. Because of the extremely high connectivity in typical networks, it is expected that higher-order terms in the systematic expansion are small for experimentally accessible measurements, and thus, consistent with measurements in neocortical slice preparations, we expect mean field exponents for the transition. We provide a quantitative criterion for the relative magnitude of each term in the systematic expansion, analogous to the Ginsburg criterion. Experimental identification of dynamic universality classes in vivo is an outstanding and important question for neuroscience.

Previous modeling studies have identified the vaccination coverage level necessary for preventing influenza epidemics, but have not shown whether this critical coverage can be reached. Here we use computational modeling to determine, for the first time, whether the critical coverage for influenza can be achieved by voluntary vaccination. We construct a novel individual-level model of human cognition and behavior; individuals are characterized by two biological attributes (memory and adaptability) that they use when making vaccination decisions. We couple this model with a population-level model of influenza that includes vaccination dynamics. The coupled models allow individual-level decisions to influence influenza epidemiology and, conversely, influenza epidemiology to influence individual-level decisions. By including the effects of adaptive decision-making within an epidemic model, we can reproduce two essential characteristics of influenza epidemiology: annual variation in epidemic severity and sporadic occurrence of severe epidemics. We suggest that individual-level adaptive decision-making may be an important (previously overlooked) causal factor in driving influenza epidemiology. We find that severe epidemics cannot be prevented unless vaccination programs offer incentives. Frequency of severe epidemics could be reduced if programs provide, as an incentive to be vaccinated, several years of free vaccines to individuals who pay for one year of vaccination. Magnitude of epidemic amelioration will be determined by the number of years of free vaccination, an individuals' adaptability in decision-making, and their memory. This type of incentive program could control epidemics if individuals are very adaptable and have long-term memories. However, incentive-based programs that provide free vaccination for families could increase the frequency of severe epidemics. We conclude that incentive-based vaccination programs are necessary to control influenza, but some may be detrimental. Surprisingly, we find that individuals' memories and flexibility in adaptive decision-making can be extremely important factors in determining the success of influenza vaccination programs. Finally, we discuss the implication of our results for controlling pandemics.

Noncoplanar polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are widely dispersed in human environment and tissues. Here, an exemplar noncoplanar PCB was fed to rat dams during gestation and throughout three subsequent nursing weeks. Although the hearing sensitivity and brainstem auditory responses of pups were normal, exposure resulted in the abnormal development of the primary auditory cortex (A1). A1 was irregularly shaped and marked by internal nonresponsive zones, its topographic organization was grossly abnormal or reversed in about half of the exposed pups, the balance of neuronal inhibition to excitation for A1 neurons was disturbed, and the critical period plasticity that underlies normal postnatal auditory system development was significantly altered. These findings demonstrate that developmental exposure to this class of environmental contaminant alters cortical development. It is proposed that exposure to noncoplanar PCBs may contribute to common developmental disorders, especially in populations with heritable imbalances in neurotransmitter systems that regulate the ratio of inhibition and excitation in the brain. We conclude that the health implications associated with exposure to noncoplanar PCBs in human populations merit a more careful examination.
The spiking activity of single neurons in the primate motor cortex is correlated with various limb movement parameters, including velocity. Recent findings obtained using local field potentials suggest that hand speed may also be encoded in the summed activity of neuronal populations. At this macroscopic level, the motor cortex has also been shown to display synchronized rhythmic activity modulated by motor behavior. Yet whether and how neural oscillations might be related to limb speed control is still poorly understood. Here, we applied magnetoencephalography (MEG) source imaging to the ongoing brain activity in subjects performing a continuous visuomotor (VM) task. We used coherence and phase synchronization to investigate the coupling between the estimated activity throughout the brain and the simultaneously recorded instantaneous hand speed. We found significant phase locking between slow (2- to 5-Hz) oscillatory activity in the contralateral primary motor cortex and time-varying hand speed. In addition, we report long-range task-related coupling between primary motor cortex and multiple brain regions in the same frequency band. The detected large-scale VM network spans several cortical and subcortical areas, including structures of the frontoparietal circuit and the cerebello-thalamo-cortical pathway. These findings suggest a role for slow coherent oscillations in mediating neural representations of hand kinematics in humans and provide further support for the putative role of long-range neural synchronization in large-scale VM integration. Our findings are discussed in the context of corticomotor communication, distributed motor encoding, and possible implications for brain-machine interfaces.
Microarray experiments have generally focused on magnitude of gene expression changes in pathological conditions, thereby using the method as a high throughput screen to identify candidate marker genes and/or to validate phenotypic differences. We have used novel strategies to extract additional information from array studies, including expression variability and coordination, from which organizational principles of transcriptomes are emerging. We have reported that the expression level, variability and coordination of numerous genes are regulated in brains of connexin43 null (Gja1(-/-)) mouse with respect to wildtype. Moreover, expression coordination with Gja1 in wildtype largely predicted the expression regulation in Gja1(-/-) tissues. We now report a remarkable overlap between regulations in Gja1(-/-) and connexin32 null (Gjb1(-/-)) brains, and that both differ markedly from those in connexin36 null (Gja9(-/-)) brain. Since in brain these three connexins are expressed in different cell types (Cx43 in astrocytes, ependymal and vascular cells, Gjb1 in oligodendrocytes, and Cx36 in neurons and microglia), and because astrocytes and oligodendrocytes (and possibly neurons and microglia) may form syncytia coupled by gap junction channels, these observations suggest the existence of distinct connexin-dependent panglial and neuronal transcriptomic networks. Such networks, where linkage partners are rearranged and strengths modified in brains of knockouts, may explain downstream and parallel &quot;ripples&quot; of phenotypic change resulting from single gene manipulations as illustrated by alterations in transcription factor networks resulting from deletion of Gja1 or Gjb1. The transcription factors also formed network hubs with genes from other functional categories, thus allowing regulation of one functional pathway through manipulation of another.
