In previous studies the repeated administration of 0.5 to 1.0 mg/kg of amphetamine i.v. failed to induce psychomotor sensitization if the drug was administered to animals living in the test environment (at home). The same doses did induce sensitization if animals were transported to the test environment for each drug treatment. The purpose of the present experiment was to determine the extent to which this effect of environment is dose dependent. Rats either lived in test cages or were transported from the animal colony to test cages where they received an i.v. infusion of one of five doses of amphetamine (0.125, 0.5, 1.0, 4.0 or 8.0 mg/kg) or saline each day for 5 consecutive days. Rotational behavior was used as an index of psychomotor activation. After a 6-day drug-free period all animals were challenged with 0.5 mg/kg of amphetamine to determine the pretreatment dose necessary to induce sensitization. The effect of the drug-treatment environment was to shift the dose-effect curve for the induction of sensitization, such that significantly lower doses were necessary to induce sensitization when amphetamine was given in a novel environment. With high doses, however, sensitization occurred regardless of environmental condition. It is concluded that the circumstances surrounding drug administration can powerfully modulate the ability of psychostimulants to induce sensitization, but this effect is dose dependent.

Dementia causes serious impairments and the inability to perform those activities which give meaning to a person's life. Therefore, these persons are in need of professional nursing care interventions as well as a special supporting environment. In this study, social dancing has been regarded as a nursing intervention that supports persons with dementia in nursing home settings. The aim was to find out how persons with dementia functioned in social dance sessions, in order to understand the reasons behind the use of social dancing as a nursing intervention in a nursing home setting. Six persons with dementia were videotaped during four dance sessions in one nursing home. The qualitative content analyses were carried out deductively, using a guide developed from the variables in the Gottfries, Brne and Steen rating scale (GBS scale). The findings show that, for persons with dementia, retained abilities were prominent in dancing. It was obvious that social dancing was supportive and seemed to have meaning to both patients and their carers. Social dancing seems to be a nursing intervention that supports patients' positive feelings, communication and behaviour. The carers' preunderstanding of the patients' levels of dementia and the wholeness of the situation was of importance.
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy is a demyelinating disease of the human central nervous system that results from lytic infection of oligodendrocytes by the polyomavirus JC (JCV). Originally, JCV was thought to replicate exclusively in human glial cells, specifically oligodendrocytes. However, we have recently shown that JCV can replicate in cells of lymphoid origin such as hematopoietic precursor cells, B lymphocytes, and tonsillar stromal cells. To determine whether tonsils harbor JCV, we tested a total of 54 tonsils, 38 from children and 16 from adult donors. Nested PCRs with primer sets specific for the viral T protein and regulatory regions were used for the detection of JCV DNA. JCV DNA was detected in 21 of 54 tonsil tissues, or 39% (15 of 38 children and 6 of 16 adults) by using regulatory-region primers and in 19 of 54 tonsil tissues, or 35% (13 of 38 children and 6 of 16 adults) by using the T-protein primers. The DNA extracted from children's nondissected tonsil tissue, isolated tonsillar lymphocytes, and isolated stromal cells that demonstrated PCR amplification of the JCV regulatory region underwent cloning and nucleotide sequencing. Of the regulatory-region sequences obtained, nearly all contained tandem repeat arrangements. Clones originating from nondissected tonsil tissue and tonsillar lymphocytes were found to have sequences predominantly of the Mad-1 prototype strain, whereas the majority of clones from the DNA of tonsillar stromal cells had sequences characteristic of the Mad-8br strain of JCV. A few clones demonstrated structures other than tandem repeats but were isolated only from tonsillar lymphocytes. These data provide the first evidence of the JCV genome in tonsil tissue and suggest that tonsils may serve as an initial site of viral infection.
Dogs were born to mothers fed commercial diets low or enriched in n-3 fatty acids and raised on those diets until they were about 50 d old. Retinas were removed, lipids were extracted, and total phospholipids were analyzed for fatty acid and molecular species composition. Animals from the low n-3 group had significantly lower retinal levels of 22:6n-3 and higher levels of n-6 fatty acids, especially 20:4n-6 and 22:5n-6. There was no difference in the retinal levels of 18:2n-6, and only small differences were found in saturated and monounsaturated fatty acids. The most dramatic differences in molecular species occurred in 22:6n-3-22:6n-3 (4.7 vs. 0.8%) and 18:0-22:6n-3 (27.6 vs. 14.4%); total molecular species containing 22:6n-3 were significantly lower in the low n-3 group (45.5 vs. 24.0%). Molecular species containing 20:4n-6 and 22:5n-6 were greater in the low n-3 animals (13.0 vs. 25.7%), as were molecular species containing only saturated and monounsaturated fatty acids (40.8 vs. 35.4%). These results show that modest differences in the amount of n-3 fatty acids in the diets of dogs can have profound effects on the fatty acid and molecular species composition of their retinas.
We evaluated the potential effect of the lesion burden on the reproducibility of repeated lesion volume (LV) measurements from brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans of patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). Dual-echo, conventional spin echo brain MRI scans were obtained from 107 patients with MS. On proton density-weighted images, LV was assessed three times by the same raters, using a semi-automated, local thresholding technique for lesion segmentation. Mean LV (MLV) was 16.1 mL (range = 0.7-57.3 mL). The mean intra-observer coefficient of variation (COV) for the three measurement replicates was 2.6% (range = 0.2-7.2%). The intra-observer measurement variance (Var) increased with MLV and the fitted model was Var = 0.00187 MLV1.84. This indicates that LV measurements can be considered as measures whose variances are proportional to the square of their mean values, i.e., these measures have constant COV. Using a semi-automated, local thresholding segmentation technique, the reproducibility of LV measurements from brain MRI scans of patients with MS is not significantly influenced by varying lesion burdens.
C57BL/6J (B6) inbred mice are well known to drink large amounts of alcohol (ethanol) voluntarily and to have only modest ethanol-induced withdrawal under fixed dose conditions. In contrast, DBA/2J (D2) mice are &quot;teetotallers&quot; and exhibit severe ethanol withdrawal. Speculation that an inverse genetic relationship existed between these two traits was substantiated by meta-analysis of existing data collected in multiple genetic models, including large panels of standard and recombinant inbred strains, their crosses, and selectively bred mouse lines. Despite methodological differences among laboratories in measurement of both preference drinking and withdrawal, a nearly universal finding was that genotypes consuming large amounts of 10% ethanol (calculated as g/kg/day) during two-bottle choice preference drinking were genetically predisposed to low withdrawal scores in independent studies after either acute or chronic ethanol treatment. Conversely, low-drinking genotypes had higher withdrawal severity scores. The genetic relationship appears to be strongest in populations derived from B6 and D2, where data from more genotypes (BXD RIs, B6D2F2s, BXD RI F1s, and B6D2F2-derived selectively bred lines) were available for analysis. Gene mapping studies in these populations identified four chromosome regions [on Chromosomes (Chrs) 1, 2, 4, and 15] where genes might potentially influence both traits. Among genotypes with greater genetic diversity (for example, a panel of standard inbred strains or selectively bred lines), the relationship was less pronounced. Thus, reduced susceptibility to the development of high alcohol use may be supported by increased genetic susceptibility to ethanol withdrawal symptoms.
The ultimate goal of quantitative trait locus (QTL) mapping is to identify the genes affecting complex traits. Using animal models, we recently identified QTLs on mouse Chromosomes (Chrs) 1, 4, and 11 affecting genetic predisposition to acute alcohol withdrawal. Among mice derived from the C57BL/6J (B6) and DBA/2J (D2) inbred strains, the locus identified on Chr 11 ( approximately 20 cM) accounted for 12% of the genetic variability in withdrawal liability. Candidate genes in proximity to this QTL encode the gamma2, alpha1, and alpha6 subunits of GABAA receptors. The present studies identify a polymorphism between the B6 and D2 strains in the gamma2 subunit gene, Gabrg2, and expand genotypic analysis to their BXD recombinant inbred strains. This polymorphism predicts a difference in amino acid sequence (Ala-11 vs. Thr-11) within the extracellular amino-terminal region of the gamma2 subunit. Analysis using BXD strain means for acute alcohol withdrawal severity suggests that the gamma2 subunit polymorphism is genetically correlated with alcohol withdrawal severity. This is the first report that QTL mapping for an alcohol-related trait has successfully led to the identification of a polymorphic candidate gene product that is genetically associated with the trait.

A multitude of regulatory genes are involved in phylogenetically conserved developmental cascades required for the patterning, cell-type specification, and differentiation of specific central nervous system (CNS) structures. Here, we describe the distribution of a mouse transcript encoding a homolog of the C. elegans mab-21 gene. In the nematode tail, mab-21 is required for the short-range patterning and cell-fate determination events mediated by egl-5 and mab-18, two homeobox genes homologous to Abd-B and Pax6, respectively. In mouse midgestation embryogenesis, Mab21 is expressed at its highest levels in the rhombencephalon, cerebellum, midbrain, and prospective neural retina. Our data and the genetic interactions previously documented in the nematode suggest that Mab21 may represent a novel, important regulator of mammalian cerebellum and eye development.
This work demonstrates encouraging results for increasing the automation of a practical and precise magnetic resonance brain image segmentation method. The intensity threshold for segmenting the brain exterior is determined automatically by locating the choroid plexus. This is done by finding peaks in a series of histograms taken over regions specified using anatomical knowledge. Intensity inhomogeneities are accounted for by adjusting the global intensity to match the white matter peak intensity in local regions. Automated results are incorporated into the established manually guided segmentation method by providing a trained expert with the automated threshold. The results from 20 different brain scans (over 1000 images) obtained under different conditions are presented to validate the method which was able to determine the appropriate threshold in approximately 80% of the data.
Portal-systemic encephalopathy (PSE) is a serious neuropsychiatric condition that results from chronic liver failure and portal-systemic shunting of venous blood. PSE is particularly prevalent following treatment of portal hypertension or ascites by the TIPS procedure. Recent studies both in autopsied brain tissue from PSE patients as well as in experimental animal models of PSE reveal that chronic liver failure results in altered expression of several genes coding for proteins having key roles in the control of neuronal excitability. Such alterations include increased expression of monoamine oxidase (MAO-A isoform), the &quot;peripheral-type&quot; benzodiazepine receptor (PTBR) as well as constitutive, neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS). Such changes result in altered protein expression and in increased degradation of monoamine neurotransmitters, increased synthesis of neurosteroids with inhibitory properties and increased production of nitric oxide (respectively) in brain in chronic liver failure. In the case of PTBR and nNOS, increases in expression result from exposure to ammonia and/or manganese, two neurotoxic agents shown previously to be increased in brain in chronic liver failure. Further elucidation of the consequences of neurotransmitter-related gene expression could identify new pathophysiologic mechanisms and result in new approaches to the prevention of PSE in chronic liver disease in humans.
Oligodendrocytes are the cells responsible for the formation of myelin in the central nervous system. Recent studies demonstrated that cells of the oligodendrocyte lineage initially arise in distinct regions of the ventricular zone during early development. These cells or their progeny migrate to developing white matter tracts where they undergo the majority of their proliferation and subsequently differentiate into myelinating cells. Oligodendrocyte-precursor cell proliferation is regulated by a number of distinct growth factors that act at distinct stages in the lineage and the final number of oligodendrocytes in any region of the CNS is regulated by local influences. A density-dependent feedback inhibition of proliferation reduces the responsiveness of the cells to their growth factors and the final matching of oligodendrocyte and axon number is accomplished through the local regulation of cell death. In this review, we discuss the major factors that regulate three distinct stages in the development of the oligodendrocyte lineage: The initial induction of oligodendrocyte progenitors, the regulation of expansion and dispersion of the committed precursor cell population, and the final regulation of oligodendrocyte precursor number through the local inhibition of oligodendrocyte precursor proliferation and cell death.
The development of technologies for high-resolution nucleic acid localization in cells and tissues has contributed significantly to our understanding of transcriptional and translational regulation in eukaryotic cells. These methods include nonisotopic in situ hybridization methods for light and electron microscopy, and fluorescent tagging for the study of nucleic acid behavior in living cells. In situ hybridization to detect messenger RNA has led to the discovery that individual transcripts may be selectively targeted to particular subcellular domains. In the nervous system, certain species of mRNA have been localized in distal processes in nerve cells and glia. Direct visualization of mRNA and its interactions with subcellular features, such as synaptic specializations, cytoskeletal elements, and nuclear pores, have been achieved. Of particular interest is the presence of mRNA and ribosomes in dendrites, beneath synaptic contacts, suggesting the possibility of synaptic regulation of protein synthesis. The following article will describe the application of high-resolution in situ hybridization and live imaging techniques to the study of mRNA targeting in neurons.

Vascular dysfunctions, e.g. alterations in the reactivity of blood vessels to neurotransmitters and hormones, are a well-established complication of diabetes mellitus. Whether these impairments are a consequence of direct postsynaptic deficits and/or indirect presynaptic deficits remains to be determined. To this end, we investigated the influence of the duration of diabetes on relaxation and contraction responses of isolated mesenteric resistance and equally-sized basilar arteries to postsynaptic activation by various vasoactive agents, using streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats and age-matched controls. Relaxation responses to vasodilator agents were studied in KCl-precontracted arteries. The duration of diabetes (4 or 40 weeks) did not affect the vasodilator responses to sodium nitroprusside or salbutamol in either artery. In mesenteric resistance vessels from short-term (4 weeks) and long-term (40 weeks) diabetic rats the vasoconstrictor responses to KCI, serotonin and vasopressin were the same as those in non-diabetic rats; however, the sensitivity (EC50) to noradrenaline was slightly but significantly enhanced after the long-term diabetic state. In contrast to the mesenteric arteries, noradrenaline did not cause contraction in basilar arteries taken from diabetic and control rats. Thus, there appear to be important differences in the reactivity to noradrenaline of the peripheral and cerebral vasculature. The basilar artery from short-term and long-term diabetic rats did not show different responsiveness to vasopressin whereas to serotonin a significant enhanced and decreased sensitivity (EC10 and EC50) was demonstrated in short-term and long-term diabetes, respectively. Our findings indicate that postsynaptic impairments do not play a major role in the alterations of vasoreactivity to vasodilators, noradrenaline or vasopressin seen in experimental diabetes. However, the duration of the diabetic state may have serious consequences for vasoreactivity of basilar arteries to serotonin and, therefore, warrants further investigations.
To date, positron emission tomography (PET) is the most powerful method for the in-vivo investigation of human brain metabolism. Besides extensive application of this technology in the neurosciences, PET is also being increasingly used as a clinical tool. However, despite its acceptance in clinical practice a major obstacle is its high costs. The present article reviews the literature on the clinical use of PET in neurology, neurosurgery, and psychiatry in order to substantiate the clinical indications for PET in these specialties as established by an interdisciplinary conference.

Previous studies investigating the calcium-dependency of nitric oxide-facilitated striatal dopamine efflux have produced conflicting results. In the current study, we have investigated the role of extracellular calcium in nitric oxide and potassium chloride-evoked striatal dopamine efflux in vivo using microdialysis. Dialysis probes were implanted in the anterior dorsal striatum of chloral hydrate-anesthetized rats. Intrastriatal infusion (20 min fraction) of the nitric oxide generators sodium nitroprusside (200 microM, 500 microM, or 1 mM) and 3-morpholinosydnonimine (1 mM) increased extracellular dopamine levels. The facilitatory effects of 3-morpholinosydnonimine and potassium chloride on dopamine efflux were attenuated following pretreatment (100 min) and co-infusion of calcium free artificial cerebral spinal fluid containing magnesium chloride. Local potassium chloride infusion (100 mM) administered alone elevated striatal dopamine efflux to a similar degree as potassium chloride (100 mM) delivered 60 min after 3-morpholinosydnonimine infusion. These results demonstrate that like potassium chloride, nitric oxide facilitates striatal dopamine efflux in vivo via a mechanism largely dependent on extracellular calcium. Also, as intrastriatal potassium chloride infusion evoked similar increases in extracellular dopamine levels in controls and subjects receiving pretreatment with the NO-generator 3-morpholinosydnonimine, it is unlikely that the functional integrity of DA nerve terminals is compromised via a neurotoxic disruption of plasma membrane potential following enhanced striatal NO production.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by decreased striatal dopamine, but serotonin (5-HT) is also reduced. Because 5-HT decreases following a single levodopa injection, levodopa has been suggested to contribute to PD's serotonergic deficits. However, in a recent study, rat striatal serotonin levels were reported to increase following 15-day levodopa administration. To address this issue, we administered levodopa (50 mg/kg) to rabbits for 5 days, then measured serotonin, its precursors tryptophan and 5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP), and its major metabolite 5-hydroxyindole-acetic acid (5-HIAA) in striatum and CSF. Striatal serotonin and tryptophan were unchanged, while 5-HTP and 5-HIAA increased 4- and 7-fold, respectively. CSF 5-HTP and 5-HIAA were also significantly increased. In levodopa-treated animals, 5-HTP concentrations were moderately correlated (r = 0.679) between striatum and CSF, while weak correlations were present between striatal and CSF concentrations of both serotonin and 5-HIAA. These results suggest that repeated levodopa treatment increases striatal serotonin turnover without changing serotonin content. However, levodopa-induced alterations in striatal serotonin metabolism may not be accurately reflected by measurement of serotonin and 5-HIAA in CSF.
N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) stimulated release of [3H]noradrenaline (NA) from prelabelled rat spinal cord slices. The release was partially insensitive to tetrodotoxin (TTX) and was inhibited by the NMDA antagonist MK-801. Alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA) also evoked release of [3H]NA, which was enhanced by blocking AMPA receptor desensitization with cyclothiazide. AMPA-evoked release was inhibited by the non-NMDA antagonist 2,3-dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulfamoyl-benzo(f)-quinoxaline (NBQX) but was not affected by TTX. NMDA and AMPA showed synergistic effects, indicating co-existence of NMDA and AMPA receptors on noradrenergic terminals. Kainate evoked [3H]NA release only at high concentrations and the release was not potentiated by blocking kainate receptor desensitization with concanavalin A. Thus, the results indicate that there are stimulatory presynaptic NMDA and AMPA receptors on noradrenergic axon terminals in the spinal cord and that they interact synergistically to evoke release of [3H]NA.
Leptin is an adipose tissue-derived hormone that regulates body weight via interactions with hypothalamic neuronal circuitries expressing specific leptin receptors (Ob-R). The Ob-Rs act via the JAK-STAT (Janus kinase-signal transducers and activators of transcription) pathway of signal transduction. Recent evidence suggests that primarily the transcription factor STAT3 mediates leptin's action in the hypothalamus. We have investigated the presence and cellular localization of STAT3 protein in the rat hypothalamus by means of indirect immunofluorescence histochemistry using a rabbit polyclonal STAT3 antiserum. The antiserum identified a 92-kDa protein using Western blotting on rat hypothalamic homogenates, corresponding to the expected size of STAT3. STAT3 immunoreactivity was demonstrated in Ob-R-containing neurons of the paraventricular nucleus (parvocellular part), periventricular nucleus, arcuate nucleus and in the lateral hypothalamic area. Direct double-labeling showed presence of STAT3 immunoreactivity in neuropeptide Y (NPY)-containing neurons of the ventromedial part of the arcuate nucleus and in proopiomelanocortin (POMC)-containing neurons of the ventrolateral part of the arcuate nucleus. The results provide an anatomical basis for a leptin action mediated by STAT3 in Ob-R-containing NPY and POMC neurons of the arcuate nucleus, as well as by Ob-R-containing neurons of the parvocellular paraventricular nucleus and lateral hypothalamic area.

To investigate the structural determinants underlying transport by the glutamate transporter EAAT1, we mutated each of 24 highly conserved residues (P392 to Q415) to cysteine. A majority of these substituted cysteines react with the sulfhydryl-modifying reagent MTSEA, suggesting that they reside in an aqueous environment. The impermeant reagents MTSES and MTSET react with residues at each end of the domain (A395C and A414C), supporting a model that places these residues near the extracellular surface. Substrates and inhibitors block the reaction between MTS derivatives and A395C, and the cosubstrate, sodium, slows reaction of MTSEA with Y405C and E406C. From these results, we propose that this domain forms a reentrant membrane loop at the cell surface and may comprise part of the translocation pore for substrates and cotransported ions.
Pituitary adenylate cyclase activating peptide and vasoactive intestinal peptide belong to the same neuropeptide family. Both peptides are present in nerve fibers in the gastric wall and are thought to be involved in the regulation of inflammatory processes. Experimental ulcers were induced in the rat gastric mucosa by local application of acetic acid. During the healing process we examined the PACAP and VIP innervation by means of immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization. The ulcer area was examined from day 1 to day 15 after ulcer induction. There was a marked depletion of PACAP in nerve fibers at the ulcer margin from day 1 and onwards. On day 10 and day 15, PACAP-immunoreactive nerve fibers could again be visualized at the ulcer margin. In contrast, VIP immunoreactive nerve fibers were present at the ulcer margin at all time points studied. From day 10 following ulcer induction PACAP- and VIP- immunoreactive nerve fibers were increased in frequency in the smooth muscle beneath the ulcer. An upregulation of VIP and PACAP mRNA was also demonstrated in the myenteric ganglia adjacent to ulcer. The present results indicate that neuronal PACAP and VIP react differently to the inflammation at the ulcer margin but similarly in the smooth muscle during the ulcer healing.
In adult rats response latencies to innocuous mechanical stimuli were found to be reduced and, in electrophysiological studies, the receptive fields of dorsal horn neurones were enlarged 7-14 days after chronic constriction injury of the sciatic nerve. The NK1 receptor antagonist GR205171 at 3 mg kg(-1) blocked responses to NK1 agonist evoked activity and reversed the mechanical hypersensitivity following nerve ligation in behavioural assays. GR205171 also reversed the receptive field expansion of spinal dorsal horn neurones caused by loose ligation of the sciatic nerve in an electrophysiological assay in anaesthetised rats. The less active enantiomer L-796,325 did not block NK1 agonist evoked activity at up to 10 mg kg(-1) and had no effect on behavioural or electrophysiological changes following nerve injury, indicating that the effects of GR205171 were attributable to selective NK1 receptor blockade. These data suggest that NK1 receptor antagonists may be useful for the treatment of certain types of neuropathic pain.

The current clinical trials model for antidepressants (AD) was developed in the 1960s. It views major depression as a unitary disorder, and &quot;antidepressants&quot; as having illness-specific therapeutic actions. The established efficacy measures are the Hamilton symptom rating scale and the CGI, which provide summary measures of improvement. In contrast, the DSM IV defines depression as heterogeneous, with such broad classes as unipolar and bipolar showing different response to treatments. Research further indicates depression to be comprised of major affective and behavioral components which vary in intensity across patients, and the tricyclic ADs to have multiple actions that affect various components sequentially. &quot;New&quot; ADs, products of rapid advancements in the neurosciences, are more precise in their actions on brain monoamine systems, targeted to affect behaviors with greater specificity. A new trials model sensitive to the varied behavioral effects needs to be developed to adapt to these quicker acting, targeted antidepressants. A componential model is recommended that employs an array of behavioral methods, and subtype classification and statistical approaches to estimate onset and sequence of multiple drug actions. The NIMH can intervene to accelerate improvements by initiating funding programs to implement more effective clinical methods and models.
While the hypothalamus is fundamental for sleep and circadian regulation, the molecular mechanisms involved are poorly understood. We have used a differential gene expression technique to identify hypothalamic genes which have altered expression in rat sleep periods. Complex cDNA probes from rat hypothalami removed at Zeitgeber times 4 and 15 were hybridised to rat brain cDNA library girds. From 30 differentially expressed clones, six were further analysed and two were confirmed to exhibit increased expression at Zeitgeber time 4. A Northern blot hybridization of brain, heart, kidney, lung, testis and skin mRNA showed that both clones were brain specific. Therefore, we have identified two novel brain specific diurnally expressed hypothalamic genes. Both genes may have roles in sleep or circadian regulation.
High-density eeg recordings revealed sensory specific modulation of anticipatory parieto-occipital approximately 10 Hz oscillatory activity when visually presented word cues instructed subjects in an intermodal selective attention paradigm. Cueing attention to the auditory features of imminent compound audio-visual stimuli resulted in significantly higher approximately 10 Hz amplitude in the period preceding onset of this stimulus than when attention was cued to the visual features. We propose that this parieto-occipital approximately 10 Hz activity reflects a disengaged visual attentional system in preparation for anticipated auditory input that is attentionally more relevant. Conversely, lower approximately 10 Hz activity during the attend-visual condition may reflect active engagement of parieto-occipital areas in the anticipatory period. These results support models implicating parieto-occipital areas in the directing and maintenance of visual attention.
The endothelium is recognized as a major source of endothelin in the vasculature. In this report we show for the first time that endothelin can be demonstrated with immunoelectronmicroscopy in perivascular nerves. About 36% of the axon profiles (varicosity/intervaricosity) examined in the rat basilar artery showed immunolabelling with a polyclonal antibody to endothelin-1. Endothelin-labelled axon varicosities were characterized by the presence of small spherical agranular vesicles (42 +/- 1 nm); some varicosities also contained large granular vesicles (92 +/- 5 nm) with labelled cores. Immunolabelling was mostly distributed in the axoplasm and in association with the membrane of synaptic vesicles (the lumen of the small agranular vesicles was immuno-negative). The presence of endothelin in perivascular nerves of the basilar artery suggests a neuronal as well as endothelial role in the physiological control of the vessel wall.
Numerous lines of evidence suggest that some of the neurotoxicity associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD) is due to proteolytic fragments of the amyloid precursor protein (APP). Most research has focused on the amyloid beta peptide (A beta). However, the possible role of other cleaved products of APP is less clear. In this study, the effects of a recombinant carboxy terminal 105 amino acid (CT105) fragment of APP on the calcium uptake by endoplasmic reticulum Mg2+-Ca2+ ATPase, the major mechanism for sequestering calcium in this organelle, were investigated. We found that CT 105 is a potent inhibitor of Mg2+-Ca2+ ATPase of endoplasmic reticulum, whereas A beta shows no effect. These results demonstrate that CT 105 inhibits the ability of brain microsomes to sequester calcium and suggest that this inhibitory effect of CT 105 may contribute to disruption of intracellular calcium concentration, possibly being involved in inducing the neural toxicity characteristic of AD.
The cortical areas subserving music literacy were investigated using high-field (3 Tesla) functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). The activation pattern associated specifically with music score reading was compared with that associated with reading text in a subject's primary and secondary language. While the areas of activation were predominantly identical for all three reading modalities, there were areas within the occipital cortex activated exclusively by music score reading. Grand analysis of the activation patterns of eight pianists unequivocally identified that the principal cortical area needed for music literacy is the cortex flanking the right transverse occipital sulcus (musical brain).
The aim of this study was to compare the capacity of extracellular matrix (ECM) components to support the growth and differentiation of olfactory tissue in vitro. Reconstituted basement membrane matrix (RBM) supported profuse neurite outgrowth from explants of olfactory bulb (OB), with no non-neuronal cell migration. In contrast, nasal tissue (NT) explants cultured on RBM produced profuse fibroblastic outgrowth, but no neurite outgrowth from olfactory sensory neurones (OSN). Three-dimensional collagen gels, on the other hand, supported extensive outgrowth of both non-neuronal and neurite outgrowth from OB and NT explants, mature OSNs in the latter being identified using antibodies against olfactory marker protein (OMP). These culture systems represent useful tools for investigating potential tropic influences of target tissue.
Systemic administration of lipopolysaccharide (LPS), a non-specific activator of proinflammatory cytokine release from macrophages, provokes sickness characterized by anorexia, soporific effects, and disturbances of locomotor activity and exploration. In addition, endotoxin treatment may provoke an anhedonic response. Assessment of anhedonia in appetitive paradigms, however, is compromised by the anorexia provoked by the treatment. The present investigation assessed the anhedonic effects of LPS on rewarding lateral hypothalamic brain stimulation. Using a simultaneous discrimination, current titration procedure in the assessment of intracranial self-stimulation (ICSS), it was found that acute systemic administration of LPS (50 microg, 100 microg or 200 microg) reduced ICSS during the ascending sequence of current presentations, but had little effect on responding to a series of descending currents. In a parallel experiment, peripheral administration of LPS (100 microg) increased in vivo dopamine (DA) efflux from the nucleus accumbens, a region thought to be involved in goal-directed responding to positively reinforcing stimuli. It is suggested that LPS alters ICSS in a manner different than that observed following stressor exposure or peripheral IL-2 treatment. Furthermore, LPS may engender an anhedonic effect (possibly secondary to sickness), and the decline of responding reflects the relation between the cost of responding given in the face of sickness and the reward received for responding.
Field potential recordings were made from the dentate gyrus of urethane-anaesthetized rats in order to investigate the ability of 5 Hz stimulation to reverse long-term potentiation (LTP) induced by a high frequency tetanus. A 10 min train of 5 Hz was found to reverse LTP in a time-dependent fashion: as the interval between tetanus and 5 Hz was increased, LTP became progressively less susceptible to reversal. If 10 min or 30 min intervened between tetanization and 5 Hz stimulation, LTP was unaffected. These results indicate that dentate LTP in vivo exhibits a similar limited time window of vulnerability to reversal by low frequency stimulation to that previously reported in area CA1 in vitro.
The widely accepted method of blood oxygenation level dependent functional magnetic resonance imaging (BOLD-fMRI) is a subtractive approach of state related analysis based on pictorial statistics, analogous to its predecessor, H2O(15) positron emission tomography (H2O(15)-PET). Although BOLD-fMRI has been shown to have several definite advantages over H2O(15)-PET, it has also been found to be much more artifact prone. This is primarily due to pixel misalignment of raw image data. Furthermore, similar to H2O(15)-PET, conventional means for pictorial analysis in BOLD-fMRI tends to be limited by the relatively low specificity of the observed activation. To overcome this limitation, we investigated a technique for BOLD-fMRI, sequential epoch analysis (SEA), on a high-field (3.0 T) system. The method allows for experimental designs comparable to neurophysiological techniques in primates and enables determination of activation of a selected cerebral cortical region of interest corresponding to a specific task. Utilizing SEA, we successfully identified a specific area within the premotor cortex which is activated complementary to the contralateral hand motion. The findings have strong implications regarding the neurological substrate responsible for the well described clinical phenomenon of physiological mirror movements in infants. The current study validated SEA BOLD-fMRI on a high-field system as a complementary method in the pictorial analysis of conventional fMRI, effectively offsetting the inherent problems of the conventional method, principally pixel misalignment and the relatively low specificity of the observed activation.
Agonist-induced endocytosis and recycling of G protein-coupled receptors contributes to desensitization and resensitization of the receptors. In this study, we have used fluorescence immunohistochemistry, confocal microscopy and digital image analysis to quantify the proportion of receptor in the cytoplasm and on the surfaces of nerve cells in the guinea-pig ileum. With these methods we examined the dynamics of internalization of the neurokinin 1 receptor in response to agonist, return of receptor to the cell membrane and its capacity to be re-internalized in response to further exposure to agonist. The basal level of neurokinin 1 receptor immunoreactivity in the cytoplasm was 12-15% of total cellular immunoreactivity. Concentration-response relations were generated for neurokinin 1 receptor internalization after incubation of isolated ileum with 10(-11) to 10(-6) M substance P at 4 degrees C and warming to 37 degrees C for 20 min. The threshold concentration for cytoplasmic receptor to exceed baseline was 10(-11) M and the proportion of receptor in the cytoplasm increased with increasing substance P concentration. The effect of two exposures to agonist was studied using 10(-8) M and 10(-6) M substance P. After equilibration with substance P at 4 degrees C for 1 h followed by 20 min at 37 degrees C with no substance P, neurokinin 1 receptor immunoreactivity in the cytoplasm increased significantly from 12% to 36+/-3% for incubation with 10(-8) M and to 64+/-3% for 10(-6) M. When return of receptor to the surface was blocked with monensin (10(-5) M), 90% of the receptor was in the cytoplasm after 1 h at 37 degrees C following exposure to 10(-6) M substance P. After 60 min without substance P and no monensin, receptor in the cytoplasm decreased to 19+/-2% (10(-8) M) and 38+/-4% (10(-6) M). A second period of equilibration with substance P at 4 degrees C for 1 h followed by 20 min at 37 degrees C, without substance P, resulted in a second wave of endocytosis; the fractions of receptor in the cytoplasm were 47+/-2% (10(-8) M) and 70 2% (10(-6) M). These results indicate that most of the receptors on the cell surface are available for internalization and that the receptors that return to the cell surface after endocytosis rapidly regain their ability to bind ligand and undergo endocytosis.
Electrophysiological recording demonstrates that alpha-latrotoxin, a 125,000 mol. wt component of black widow spider venom, promotes high frequency quantal discharges at larval neuromuscular junctions of Drosophila. Concomitantly, fluorescence imaging of presynaptic calcium ion activity reveals that this toxin qualitatively elevates cytosolic ionized calcium in this preparation. These activities of alpha-latrotoxin are selectively antagonized by a monoclonal antibody, 4C4.1, that was previously shown to inhibit the action of this toxin in PC-12 cells. However, 4C4.1 does not block the release-promoting activity of gel-filtered extracts of black widow spider venom. This indicates that black widow spider venom has multiple components that promote quantal transmitter secretion in invertebrates. This investigation demonstrates that alpha-latrotoxin is among the active principles in black widow spider venom that enhance transmitter release and raise cytosolic ionized calcium in Drosophila. These results suggest that Drosophila, because of the relative ease of genetic manipulation, may be useful to study the target protein(s) that mediate the binding and action of alpha-latrotoxin at nerve endings. Moreover, the procedure that we report for loading Drosophila nerve terminals with the calcium ion-sensing dye, Calcium Crimson, may have utility for studying calcium dynamics in mutant alleles with alterations in synapse development and function in this organism.
Modafinil is a novel wake-promoting compound for which the mechanism and sites of action are unknown. We examined the neural substrates in the brain for the actions of modafinil using 2-deoxyglucose autoradiography and compared the findings to those obtained with amphetamine. Modafinil showed a relatively restricted pattern of changes in brain regional metabolic activity, while amphetamine altered glucose utilization in a wide variety of brain regions. Both modafinil and amphetamine increased glucose utilization in all subregions of the hippocampus (subiculum, CA1-CA3 and dentate gyrus) and in the centrolateral nucleus of the thalamus. Modafinil also increased glucose utilization in the central nucleus of the amygdala, but amphetamine had no effect in this region. Brain structures in which amphetamine increased metabolic rate but modafinil had no effect included regions of the basal ganglia, other nuclei of the thalamus, the frontal cortex, the nucleus accumbens, the ventral tegmental area and the pontine reticular fields. These findings suggest that, while both modafinil and amphetamine promote wakefulness, they act via distinctly different mechanisms. Modafinil appears to act on a specific subset of brain pathways which regulate sleep and wakefulness, whereas amphetamine affects a greater number of cerebral structures involved in the regulation of these behavioral states. Modafinil also lacks the pronounced effects on the extrapyramidal motor system which are characteristic of amphetamine and other psychomotor stimulants, implying that the effects of modafinil are not mediated by the dopamine system and that modafinil may selectively increase wakefulness with fewer side effects.
We have previously reported that an apparently uncomplicated Caesarean section birth produces long-term alterations in steady-state levels of dopamine in the central nervous system of the rat. In addition, adult rats that had been born by Caesarean section, either with or without acute global anoxia, showed markedly greater dopamine release from the nucleus accumbens in response to repeated stress, in comparison to vaginally born controls. The aim of the present study was to test whether these birth complications also result in long-term changes in behavior mediated by dopamine systems. For this, we investigated effects of a low dose (0.5 mg/kg) of amphetamine on activity levels in three-month-old rats that had been born vaginally (control), by rapid Caesarean section, or by Caesarean section with 15 min of global anoxia. Amphetamine induced a significantly greater increase in locomotor activity in animals born by Caesarean section or by Caesarean section+ 15 min anoxia, in comparison to the drug's effects in vaginally born controls. Behavioral responses were further analysed from video recordings of the animals' behavior. In confirmation of automated activity counts, both animals born by Caesarean section and by Caesarean section + 15 min anoxia showed a significant increase in the duration and frequency of moving and a decrease in the duration and frequency of standing, in comparison to vaginally born controls. Animals delivered by Caesarean section showed a significant increase in the duration of sniffing and a decrease in the duration and frequency of grooming when compared to vaginally born controls. Animals delivered by Caesarean section + 15 min anoxia showed a significant increase in the duration and frequency of rearing, in comparison to controls. The pattern of behavioral changes observed indicates that, as adults, animals born by Caesarean section and by Caesarean section with added global anoxia both show heightened behavioral responses to amphetamine, in comparison to vaginally born animals. These findings highlight the sensitivity of dopamine pathways to variations in birth procedure and add experimental support to epidemiological evidence implicating birth complications in the pathophysiology of disorders involving central dopaminergic neurons, such as schizophrenia.
Metabotropic glutamate receptors are a major class of excitatory amino acid receptors. Eight metabotropic glutamate receptors subtypes have been cloned and have been classified into three groups based on their amino acid sequence homology, effector systems, and pharmacological profile. Previous results have shown that striatal group I metabotropic glutamate receptor stimulation produces vigorous contralateral rotation in intact rats, thought to be due to increased striatal dopamine release. Examination of FOS-like immunoreactivity and local cerebral glucose metabolism suggests that this occurs secondary to activation of the subthalamic nucleus. We sought to determine the contribution of dopamine by examining metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist-induced rotation in rats following acute dopamine depletion by reserpine/alpha-methyl-para-tyrosine treatment, or chronic dopamine depletion by 6-hydroxydopamine treatment. In unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesioned rats, the group I metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist (RS)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine induced contralateral rotation with a coincident increase in striatal 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid. The rotation was attenuated by the group I antagonist 1-aminoindan-1,5-dicarboxylate. Examination of FOS-like immunoreactivity and [14C]2-deoxyglucose uptake in chronically dopamine depleted rats also revealed similar patterns to those seen previously in intact rats. However, acutely dopamine depleted rats do not exhibit metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist-induced rotation and show a different pattern of [14C]2-deoxyglucose uptake, with no increase in glucose utilization in the intermediate and deep layers of the superior colliculus. These results suggest that there are compensatory changes under conditions of chronic dopamine denervation which permit metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist-induced rotation to occur, which may include dopamine receptor supersensitivity, increased dopamine turnover, and/or changes in sensitivity of striatal group I metabotropic glutamate receptors. The group III metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist L-(+)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyrate induced contralateral rotation in 6-hydroxydopamine lesioned rats, while it had no effect in intact rats. Additionally, examination of FOS-like immunoreactivity revealed a distinct pattern following L-(+)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyrate administration in 6-hydroxydopamine lesioned versus intact rats. These results suggest that there is a change in the effect of striatal group III stimulation under conditions of dopamine depletion.
Deficits of GABAergic transmission have been reported to occur in tissue surrounding ischemic cortical lesions between a few days and several weeks after the insult. In the present experiments, we used immunohistochemistry with antibodies against parvalbumin and two major subunits of the GABA(A) receptor (alpha1, alpha2) to characterize the events that underlie these changes at different levels of circuit organization. Neocortical infarcts (2 mm diameter) consistently affecting medial parts of the primary somatosensory cortex were induced photochemically in adult male Wistar rats; animals were allowed to recover for one week before perfusion-fixation. When compared to controls the pattern of immunoreactivity had changed for the al subunit of the GABA(A) receptor seven days after the insult. Ipsilateral to the ischemic lesions, we found a decrease in staining intensity reaching up to 4 mm laterally, resulting in a partial or complete absence of the normal laminar staining pattern. No consistent changes were observed for the alpha2 subunit. Parvalbumin staining revealed pathological alterations in a rim of tissue surrounding the infarct, measuring up to 1 mm from the border of the infarcts. Parvalbumin-positive interneurons in this region showed signs of degeneration; both a reduction of the number of dendrites and, to a lesser extent and only immediately adjacent to the ischemic lesions, a reduction of the number of parvalbumin-positive neurons was readily apparent. The results provide evidence for both a differential regulation of two GABA(A) receptor subunits and degenerative changes of parvalbumin-containing interneurons ipsilateral to cortical infarcts. The relevance of these findings for mechanisms underlying long-term recovery, transient functional deficits and postinfarct seizures warrants further investigation.
The phosphorylation state of cytoskeletal proteins, including certain microtubule-associated proteins, may influence the development and plasticity of axons and dendrites in mammalian neuron in response to appropriate extracellular stimuli. In particular, high molecular weight microtubule-associated protein 2, has been implicated in dendrite growth and synaptic plasticity and is thought to be modulated by phosphorylation and dephosphorylation. We have previously determined that threonines 1620/1623 on the microtubule-associated protein 2 molecule become phosphorylated in vivo and are targets for proline-directed protein kinases in vitro. Using the phosphorylated site-specific antibody 305, we now report the decreased phosphorylation state of high molecular weight microtubule-associated protein 2 during the development of cultured cerebellar granule neurons. Phosphorylation of high molecular weight microtubule-associated protein 2 at this site is significantly inhibited by lithium in short-term cultured neurons, which suggests the implication of glycogen synthase kinase-3. In long-term cultured neurons, it is also partially inhibited by PD098059, an inhibitor of extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase activation, which indicates an additional contribution of this kinase to high molecular weight microtubule-associated protein 2 phosphorylation at this stage. Both in short-term and long-term cultured neurons, okadaic acid augments high molecular weight microtubule-associated protein 2 phosphorylation at this site through the inhibition of protein phosphatases 1 and/or 2A. Finally, glutamate receptor activation leads to a dephosphorylation of high molecular weight microtubule-associated protein 2 at this site which can also be effectively prevented by okadaic acid. These results are consistent with the participation of glycogen synthase kinase-3, extracellular signal-regulated protein kinases and protein phosphatases 1 and 2A, in the regulation of microtubule-associated protein 2 phosphorylation within living neurons, which may be modulated by extracellular signals like the neurotransmitter glutamate.
The high-affinity nerve growth factor receptor (gp140TrkA) is a tyrosine kinase receptor. The dimeric ligand, nerve growth factor, activates the receptor by stabilizing homodimer formation, which initiates transautophosphorylation. Suramin is a symmetrical planar polyanionic molecule which is being used as a novel experimental anti-neoplastic agent. Proposed mechanisms of the drug's anti-proliferative activity include blocking mitogenic stimulatory growth factors or inhibition of tumor-specific cellular enzymes. In PC12 cells and in dorsal root ganglion neurons, suramin has been shown to act as a partial agonist for gp140TrkA. We now demonstrate direct activation of gp140TrkA by suramin using in vitro protein kinase assays and receptor dimerization studies. Additionally, activation of phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase by suramin and nerve growth factor was observed with 10-min exposure. The addition of anti-nerve growth factor antibodies along with suramin did not reduce the level of gp140TrkA phosphorylation, excluding induction of an autocrine loop of nerve growth factor release and activation. This demonstrates that a small polyanion can directly activate gp140TrkA via receptor dimerization. Our study reveals a suramin-induced homodimerization of gp140TrkA. This finding correlated with significant neurite outgrowth in naive PC12 cells exposed to the drug. Studies will be initiated to design structural analogs of suramin which possess neurotrophic properties with no associated neurotoxicity.
In adult skeletal muscles, transforming growth factor-beta 2 is restricted to the postsynaptic domain of the neuromuscular junction. The various putative functions of this transforming growth factor-beta 2 predict different patterns of transforming growth factor-beta 2 expression in denervated muscles. We therefore denervated rat tibialis anterior, extensor digitorum longus and soleus muscles and examined the expression of transforming growth factor-beta 2 using semi-quantitative reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction and immunohistochemistry. Denervation up-regulated transforming growth factor-beta 2 expression extrasynaptically with little or no effect on synaptic expression. The up-regulation was detectable by one day, had become significant by three days and remained elevated for at least two weeks. This proves that the transforming growth factor-beta 2 associated with the neuromuscular junction is not under neural control and is consistent with transforming growth factor-beta 2 being a trophic factor for motoneurons. This pattern of transforming growth factor-beta 2 expression is similar to that described for other proteins associated with the neuromuscular junction, notably the acetylcholine receptor subunit genes. However, in contrast to the acetylcholine receptor subunit genes, the extent of up-regulation of transforming growth factor-beta 2 varied between fibre types, with the glycolytic IIB fibres being less affected than other fibre types.
In the present study we investigated the axotomy-induced expression of the proto-oncogene c-jun in young rat medial septal neurons and its regulation by nerve growth factor. First, medial septal neurons were retrogradely labelled by Fast Blue injection into the hippocampus at postnatal day 1 (P1). Rats of different developmental ages (P6, P9, P14, P21, P28 and P42) were then subjected to bilateral fimbria-fornix transection resulting in the axotomy of septohippocampal projection neurons. After the lesion, c-JUN immunoreactivity was observed in the nuclei of axotomized medial septal neurons of all stages examined, suggesting that c-JUN induction is an age-independent feature of axotomized medial septal neurons. Double immunolabelling for choline acetyltransferase and c-JUN or parvalbumin and c-JUN, respectively, revealed that both cholinergic and GABAergic septohippocampal projection neurons express c-JUN after axotomy. In addition, a co-localization of immunostaining for c-JUN and the neuropeptide galanin was found after lesion, as both proteins were induced in the same medial septal neurons following fimbria-fornix transection. Next, the regulation of c-JUN expression in axotomized medial septal neurons was studied in organotypic cultures of the medial septum. Axotomized medial septal neurons in culture did not express c-JUN in contrast to the in vivo situation. With the concept that nerve growth factor suppresses c-JUN expression, slice cultures of the medial septum were treated with antibodies against nerve growth factor. This treatment caused a dose-dependent increase in c-JUN-positive cells in these slice cultures. Simultaneous addition of nerve growth factor and antibodies against nerve growth factor resulted in the reversal of this effect. These data suggest an age-independent induction of c-JUN in axotomized medial septal neurons and its regulation by nerve growth factor.
The N-methyl-D-aspartate channel blocker phencyclidine is known to induce psychotic episodes in normal subjects and exacerbate psychosis in schizophrenics; however, its site of action is not clear. The prefrontal cortex, hippocampus, and basal ganglia are brain regions that appear to play a role in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia, and therefore are the most likely to be involved in the psychotomimetic action of phencyclidine. In this study, systemic administration of phencyclidine reduced the frequency and duration of the spontaneously occurring depolarized plateaus observed in the membrane potential of accumbens neurons recorded intracellularly in vivo. Furthermore, recordings from rats pretreated with phencyclidine yielded proportionately fewer neurons showing depolarized events compared with untreated animals. These results suggest that phencyclidine may interfere with the generation of the depolarized (&quot;up&quot;) state of the accumbens neuron membrane potential, which we had previously shown is dependent upon hippocampal input and is necessary for action potential discharge in these neurons. This action of phencyclidine is proposed to impair the flow of cortical information through the nucleus accumbens, and thereby mimic the consequences of the hippocampal deficit proposed to contribute to the pathophysiology of schizophrenia.
The effects of 17beta-estradiol, a potent estrogen, on ischemia-induced neuronal damage, membrane depolarization and changes in intracellular Ca2+ concentration were studied in gerbil hippocampi. The histological outcome evaluated seven days after 3 min of transient forebrain ischemia in hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells was improved by high doses of 17beta-estradiol (30 microg, i.c.v. and 4 mg/kg, i.p.), whereas low doses of 17beta-estradiol (3 and 10 microg, i.c.v.) showed no protective effect. Administration of 17beta-estradiol did not affect the changes in the direct current potential shift in ischemia in the hippocampal CA1 area at any dosage. A hypoxia-induced intracellular Ca2+ increase was evaluated by in vitro microfluorometry in gerbil hippocampal slices. Pretreatment of 17beta-estradiol (4 mg/kg, injected i.p. 1 h before decapitation) suppressed the increase in the intracellular concentration of Ca2+ due to the in vitro hypoxia, affecting both the onset of the increase and the extent. The in vitro hypoxia in the Ca2+-free condition induced an elevation of the intracellular concentration of Ca2+, although the increase was gradual. Pretreatment of 17beta-estradiol (4 mg/kg, i.p.) also inhibited this elevation. These findings imply that high doses of 17beta-estradiol protect the neurons from ischemia by inhibiting the release of Ca2+ from the intracellular Ca2+ stores, as well as by inhibiting the influx of Ca2+ from the extracellular space.
The effect of picrotoxinin on glycine-induced chloride currents was studied in dissociated rat hippocampal neuron culture in whole-cell and excised outside-out patches. Picrotoxinin blocked the glycine induced chloride currents. The picrotoxinin effect at 20 microM on glycine dose response relationship suggested a competitive mechanism. However, at 1 mM, the picrotoxinin effect was largely noncompetitive. In excised patches, glycine activated two types of channels distinguished by a difference in conductances. The first group had single channel conductances of around 47 pS and another around 100 pS. Occasionally, both types of channels were found in the same excised patch. Low concentration of picrotoxinin selectively blocked large conductance channels. At higher concentrations of 0.5 to 1 mM, picrotoxinin blocked the small conductance channels by a flickering block. These findings indicate that the whole-cell glycine current in rat hippocampal neurons is mediated by at least two types of channels. The two types of channels have distinct conductance, picrotoxinin sensitivity and different mechanism of picrotoxinin block.
The effects of histamine on high-voltage-activated Ca2+ channels in the histaminergic neurons acutely dissociated from the rat tuberomammillary nucleus were investigated in the nystatin-perforated patch recording mode under voltage-clamp conditions. Histamine suppressed the high-voltage-activated Ca2+ channel currents in neurons which were positive for histidine decarboxylase with immunocytochemistry. The half-maximum inhibitory concentration and maximum inhibition were 2.6 x 10(-7) M and 16.6+/-1.90%, respectively. An H3 receptor agonist, R(-)-alpha-methylhistamine, mimicked the response to histamine, and thioperamide, an H3 receptor antagonist, inhibited the response to histamine. On the other hand, neither 2-methylhistamine, an H1 receptor agonist, nor dimaprit, an H2 receptor agonist, had a significant effect on the Ca2+ channel currents. Pretreatment with pertussis toxin blocked the inhibitory effect of histamine on Ca2+ channels, suggesting the involvement of Gi/Go proteins in the action of histamine. Omega-conotoxin-GVIA, omega-agatoxin-IVA, nicardipine, and omega-conotoxin-MVIIC blocked the high-voltage-activated Ca2+ channel currents by 15.6, 4.3, 27.1, and 31.2% of the total current, respectively, suggesting the existence of N-, P-, L-, and Q-type Ca2+ channels. A current that was insensitive to these blockers was also found. This residual current, &quot;R-type&quot;, was completely suppressed by the addition of 200 microM Cd2+. Histamine significantly inhibited both the N- and P-type current components among these five types of Ca2+ channel currents. We concluded that histamine suppresses the N- and P-type Ca2+ channels in histaminergic neurons through an H3 receptor which is linked to a pertussis toxin-sensitive G-protein.
Discharge patterns were studied in response to iontophoretic application of acetylcholine to the soma and dendrites of 128 neocortical pyramidal neurons of layer V. Extracellular recordings were obtained from slices of the guinea-pig parietal cortex. All responses found were excitatory and were better expressed in spontaneously firing cells than in silent ones. Sensitivity to acetylcholine was approximately the same at somatic and dendritic sites in all the cells. Activation of muscarinic receptors gave rise to firing patterns with equal latencies and intensities when applied to both soma and dendrites. The latter suggests that membrane excitation elicited in dendrites by binding of acetylcholine to muscarinic cholinoreceptors is likely to propagate towards the soma through intracellular biochemical processes. Modulating effect of acetylcholine on output firing patterns, elicited by dendritic application of excitatory amino acids, included shortening of the somatic response latency and increase of response intensity and duration. We propose that, in contrast to glutamatergic excitation, the spread of cholinergic excitation along dendrites involves intra-cellular chemical signalling and results in changing the electrical properties of dendrites all over their length.
We used the whole-cell recording technique in an in vitro preparation to examine the electrophysiological actions of the muscarinic receptors on relay cells in the rat lateral geniculate nucleus. Drop application of the muscarinic agonist acetyl-beta-methylcholine resulted in a slow depolarization that persisted for several minutes. The response was insensitive to the nicotinic antagonist hexamethonium, but was blocked by atropine, a muscarinic antagonist. The response was also insensitive to blockade of synaptic transmission by tetrodotoxin, indicating a direct muscarinic effect. The muscarinic depolarization consisted of two components that were somewhat separated in time. The early portion of the muscarinic response was mediated by a large inward current with little change in input resistance, while the later portion was mediated by a small inward current associated with a large increase in input resistance. Pharmacological agents were used to distinguish the two components. Drop application of McN-A-343, an ml receptor agonist, could only mimic the later component of the muscarinic response. This was supported by the result that the later component was blocked by low concentrations of pirenzepine. These data suggest that the ml receptor only mediates the late component of the muscarinic response, while the early component is mainly mediated by the m3 receptor. The idea that both ml and m3 receptors were involved in the muscarinic depolarization was further supported by voltage-clamp analysis. This revealed that activation of the ml receptor was associated with a decrease in an inward potassium current, IKleak, while activation of the m3 receptor was likely associated with both a decrease in IKleak and an increase in the hyperpolarization-activated cation current Ih. In summary, our data suggest that muscarinic responses in geniculate relay cells result from the activation of two receptors, which modulate IKleak and Ih. Given the fact that the ascending aminergic systems also depolarize geniculate relay cells via two receptors acting on IKleak and Ih, we concluded that ascending activating systems use common mechanisms to enact the depolarizing form of arousal in relay neurons.
This communication describes the new information that may be obtained by applying nonlinear analytical techniques to neurobiological time-series. Specifically, we consider the sequence of interspike intervals Ti (the &quot;timing&quot;) of trains recorded from synaptically inhibited crayfish pacemaker neurons. As reported earlier, different postsynaptic spike train forms (sets of timings with shared properties) are generated by varying the average rate and/or pattern (implying interval dispersions and sequences) of presynaptic spike trains. When the presynaptic train is Poisson (independent exponentially distributed intervals), the form is &quot;Poisson-driven&quot; (unperturbed and lengthened intervals succeed each other irregularly). When presynaptic trains are pacemaker (intervals practically equal), forms are either &quot;p:q locked&quot; (intervals repeat periodically), &quot;intermittent&quot; (mostly almost locked but disrupted irregularly), &quot;phase walk throughs&quot; (intermittencies with briefer regular portions), or &quot;messy&quot; (difficult to predict or describe succinctly). Messy trains are either &quot;erratic&quot; (some intervals natural and others lengthened irregularly) or &quot;stammerings&quot; (intervals are integral multiples of presynaptic intervals). The individual spike train forms were analysed using attractor reconstruction methods based on the lagged coordinates provided by successive intervals from the time-series Ti. Numerous models were evaluated in terms of their predictive performance by a trial-and-error procedure: the most successful model was taken as best reflecting the true nature of the system's attractor. Each form was characterized in terms of its dimensionality, nonlinearity and predictability. (1) The dimensionality of the underlying dynamical attractor was estimated by the minimum number of variables (coordinates Ti) required to model acceptably the system's dynamics, i.e. by the system's degrees of freedom. Each model tested was based on a different number of Ti; the smallest number whose predictions were judged successful provided the best integer approximation of the attractor's true dimension (not necessarily an integer). Dimensionalities from three to five provided acceptable fits. (2) The degree of nonlinearity was estimated by: (i) comparing the correlations between experimental results and data from linear and nonlinear models, and (ii) tuning model nonlinearity via a distance-weighting function and identifying the either local or global neighborhood size. Lockings were compatible with linear models and stammerings were marginal; nonlinear models were best for Poisson-driven, intermittent and erratic forms. (3) Finally, prediction accuracy was plotted against increasingly long sequences of intervals forecast: the accuracies for Poisson-driven, locked and stammering forms were invariant, revealing irregularities due to uncorrelated noise, but those of intermittent and messy erratic forms decayed rapidly, indicating an underlying deterministic process. The excellent reconstructions possible for messy erratic and for some intermittent forms are especially significant because of their relatively low dimensionality (around 4), high degree of nonlinearity and prediction decay with time. This is characteristic of chaotic systems, and provides evidence that nonlinear couplings between relatively few variables are the major source of the apparent complexity seen in these cases. This demonstration of different dimensions, degrees of nonlinearity and predictabilities provides rigorous support for the categorization of different synaptically driven discharge forms proposed earlier on the basis of more heuristic criteria. This has significant implications. (1) It demonstrates that heterogeneous postsynaptic forms can indeed be induced by manipulating a few presynaptic variables. (2) Each presynaptic timing induces a form with characteristic dimensionality, thus breaking up the preparation into subsystems such that the physical variables in each operate as one
Evidence is growing of a role of apoptosis in neurodegenerative disorders including Alzheimer's disease. Recent research indicates that cell cycle disturbances may promote apoptosis in neurodegenerative diseases. In this commentary we will discuss the control of the cell cycle in mammalian cells in general and in the central nervous system in particular. We then summarize the evidence for cell cycle perturbations in Alzheimer's disease and discuss the possible significance these may have for the development of pathological changes in this disease. Our working hypothesis is that, contrary to previous belief, neurons in the adult human brain are capable of re-entering the cell division cycle. The progression of the cell cycle is normally arrested at an early stage and neurons are able to re-differentiate. However, in Alzheimer's disease the cell cycle is allowed to progress into the G2 phase. At this stage re-differentiation is not possible and the neurons will suffer one of two fates: either they will die via an apoptotic pathway or they may produce Alzheimer-type pathology.
G protein-coupled receptor kinase 2 has been found to phosphorylate and thus regulate the activity of several G protein-coupled receptors implicated in neuronal signalling pathways. Although this kinase was initially described as a soluble protein, our laboratory has recently found that a significant amount of G protein-coupled receptor kinase 2 is associated with microsomal membranes in liver and different types of cultured cells. In the present report we show that high G protein-coupled receptor kinase 2 specific activity and protein levels are present in microsomal fractions of rat brain homogenates. On the other hand, immunochemical detection using a new antibody raised against the N-terminus of the kinase revealed a specific and widely distributed staining in different areas of the central nervous system, and the association of G protein-coupled receptor kinase 2 with intracellular structures in nervous cells. Our results further suggest that this receptor kinase may be involved in the modulation of G protein-coupled receptor-mediated neurotransmission and that association with microsomal membranes may play a role in G protein-coupled receptor kinase 2 functions in the brain.
The central role of electrical activity and Ca2+ influx in motoneuron development raises important questions about the regulation of Ca2+ signalling induced by voltage-dependent Ca2+ influx. In the purified embryonic rat motoneuron preparation, we recorded barium currents through voltage-activated Ca2+ channels using the whole-cell configuration of the patch-clamp technique. We found that motoneurons express at least four types of high-voltage-activated Ca2+ channels, based on their kinetics, voltage-dependences and pharmacological properties. Of the sustained Ca2+ current activated at 0 mV from a holding potential of -100 mV, approximately 45% was omega-conotoxin-GVIA (1 microM) sensitive, 25% was omega-agatoxin-IVA (30 nM) sensitive and 20% was nitrendipine (250 nM) sensitive. The residual current, after applying these three antagonists, was an inactivating current that differs from classical T-type Ca2+ currents. Based on this pharmacology, changes in intracellular free Ca2+ concentrations were then monitored by Fura 2 digital imaging microspectrofluorimetry. Upon K+ depolarization, the intracellular Ca2+ transient induced by the activation of each type of Ca2+ channel appeared to be quantitatively proportional to their Ca2+ influx. The existence of a calcium-induced calcium release mechanism through activation of caffeine-, ryanodine-sensitive intracellular stores was then investigated. High doses of caffeine and low doses of ryanodine failed to increase intracellular free calcium concentrations and low concentrations of caffeine and high concentrations of ryanodine did not affect K+-induced intracellular free calcium concentration transients indicating both the absence of Ca2+-gated Ca2+-release channels and of a Ca2+-induced Ca2+ release mechanism. Together, these data provide evidence that embryonic motoneurons express multiple Ca2+ channels that function as important regulators of intracellular Ca2+ signalling and may be involved in their development.
The VPP mouse is a transgenic strain carrying three mutations (P23H, V20G, P27L) near the N-terminus of opsin, the apoprotein of rhodopsin, the rod photopigment. These animals exhibit a slowly progressive degeneration of the rod photoreceptors, and concomitant changes in retinal function that mimic those seen in humans with autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa resulting from a point mutation (P23H) in opsin. In the present study we attempted to determine whether the disease process prevents the translocation of mutant opsin to the rod outer segments of transgenic mice, and whether it affects the photochemical properties of the rhodopsin present within their rod outer segments. Immunocytochemistry with a monoclonal antibody against a region of the C-terminus that recognizes epitopes common to both normal and mutant opsin (monoclonal antibody-1D4), and a polyclonal antibody that reacts preferentially with the mutant opsin (anti-VPP), were used to identify the opsin present in the rods of three-week-old VPP mice and normal littermates. Absorbance spectra, photosensitivity, and regeneration kinetics of rhodopsin in rod outer segment disc membranes were analysed by spectrophotometry. Western blot analysis with anti-VPP antibody indicated the specific binding of this antibody to the mutant opsin. Immunolocalization with monoclonal antibody-1D4 and anti-VPP antibodies suggested a normal translocation of the mutant protein to the outer segments. Aside from a small disparity in the absorbance spectra of rhodopsin obtained from normal and VPP retinas, there were no significant differences in either the ability of opsin to bind 11-cis retinal chromophore, or in the photic sensitivity of rhodopsin. The results indicate that mutant opsin is translated and incorporated into the rod outer segment disc membranes of VPP mice, and that the photochemical properties of rhodopsin in the rods of VPP retinas are similar to those of rhodopsin in normal retinas.
The mouse 5-hydroxytryptamine3 (5-HT3) type of serotonin receptors is expressed as two forms, 5-HT3R-A(L) and 5-HT3R-A(S), generated by alternative splicing of its primary transcript, that differ by a stretch of six amino acids in the second intracellular loop domain. Because this six-amino acid region contains a putative phosphorylation site that may be important for the function and/or regulation of 5HT3R-A(L) receptor, specifically, we developed polyclonal antibodies as appropriate tools for studies relevant to this question. Antibodies against a 20-amino acid peptide corresponding to the sequence of 5-HT3R-A(L) at the level of this six-amino acid region were obtained as soon as one month after injection of this synthetic peptide to rabbits. Immunocytochemistry with these antibodies led to a strong positive labelling of plasma membrane, reticulum and Golgi apparatus of COS-7 cells expressing cloned murine 5-HT3R-A(L), whereas COS-7 cells expressing similar levels of 5-HT3R-A(S) exhibited only a very weak labelling. Immunoblots of fusion proteins combining glutathion-S-transferase and the second cytoplasmic loop of 5-HT3R-A(L) or 5-HT3R-A(S) revealed a c. 20-fold selectivity of the antibodies for the first, long form, as evaluated by densitometric analysis of enhanced chemiluminescence detection. Similarly, immunoblots of COS-7 cells transfected with cloned 5-HT3 receptors showed that the anti-peptide antibodies detected a band at 53,000 mol. wt only in cells transfected with 5-HT3R-A(L). Under optimal conditions, antibodies immunoprecipitated 52% of 5-HT3R-A(L), but only 11% of 5-HT3R-A(S), solubilized from COS-7 cells transfected with the respective encoding plasmids. In the rat, no immunoautoradiographic labelling by the anti-peptide antibodies could be detected in brain structures which had previously been described to express preferentially a short form of the 5-HT3 receptor. In contrast, a strong immunolabelling was found in the intestinal mucosa, especially in the rat fetus (at the 17th embryonic day), suggesting the possible participation of the 5-HT3R-A(L) isoform in the development of this tissue. These results show that specific antibodies are useful tools for the visualization of the least abundant 5-HT3 receptor isoform in rat tissue.
Serotonin is thought to play a physiological role in various tissues of the rabbit eye, yet little is known about the relative distribution of the different serotonin receptors. Demonstration of the receptor subtypes present in the various ocular tissues is essential in order to understand the function of serotonin in the eye. Using a combination of in situ hybridization histochemistry, in vitro receptor autoradiography and polymerase chain reaction studies, we have explored the distribution of the 5-hydroxytryptamine1A and 5-hydroxytryptamine7 receptors in the rabbit eye. As these receptors have not been sequenced in the rabbit, we initially established the suitability of the oligonucleotide probes by analysis of brain tissue. The distributions of 5-hydroxytryptamine1A and 5-hydroxytryptamine7 receptor messenger RNAs in rabbit brain correlated well with those in other species, confirming the specificity of the probes for detection of the messenger RNAs in rabbit tissues. In the eye, the expression of 5-hydroxytryptamine1A receptors appears to be restricted to the epithelial cell layer of the ciliary processes, although very low levels may appear in the retina. In contrast, the expression of 5-hydroxytryptamine7 receptor messenger RNA is more widespread with positive signals evident in the ciliary processes, retina and iris. The results confirm the existence of 5-hydroxytryptamine1A receptors in the ciliary body and their localization in the ciliary epithelium supports the hypothesis that they are involved in the secretion of aqueous humour. Unexpectedly, there was little evidence to support the idea that 5-hydroxytryptamine1A receptors are present in the retina and iris sphincter. However, the subsequent finding of 5-hydroxytryptamine7 receptor messenger RNA in the retina and iris may explain the apparent absence of 5-hydroxytryptamine1A receptors in these tissues. The presence of both 5-hydroxytryptamine1A and 5-hydroxytryptamine7 receptors in the ciliary processes may account for the complex intraocular pressure response of the rabbit to serotonin.
Previous studies have shown that application of nicotinic agonists in the substantia nigra pars compacta increases the firing rate of dopaminergic neurons. We have used intracellular recordings to show that the response of these neurons to nicotine is postsynaptic, since it persists in the presence of low-calcium buffer containing tetrodotoxin. Burst firing in the presence of nicotine was not observed. The presence of postsynaptic nicotinic receptors was confirmed by immunohistochemical localization of the alpha4 nicotinic receptor subunit on dendrites in the substantia nigra pars compacta. The majority of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunopositive neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta were also immunopositive for the alpha4 subunit. Immunohistochemical localization of the alpha4 and beta2 subunits in adjacent brain sections produced similar patterns of staining. Electron micrographs clearly indicated the presence of alpha4 subunit at postsynaptic densities. The predominant role of nicotinic receptors in the central nervous system has been suggested to be the presynaptic modulation of neurotransmitter release [McGehee D. S. and Role L. W. (1995) A. Rev. Physiol. 57, 521-546]. Although several postsynaptic nicotinic responses have also been reported in the literature, it is unclear as to whether the postsynaptic nicotinic receptors mediating responses to exogenously applied agonists are involved in synaptic transmission. From our electrophysiological and immunohistochemical results, we conclude that alpha4-containing nicotinic receptors are found at synapses on dopaminergic neurons. These synapses are similar to the cholinergic synapses described at these neurons, suggesting that nicotinic receptors are important in modulating the excitability of dopaminergic neurons by direct synaptic transmission.
The mechanism by which substance P depolarizes cholinergic interneurons in the rat striatum was studied using whole-cell recording techniques. In all cases the effects of substance P were mimicked by the neurokinin1 receptor agonist [Sar9, Met(O2)11] substance P and were antagonized by the neurokinin1 receptor antagonist SR140333. [Sar9, Met(O2)11] substance P was found to depolarize cholinergic interneurons by the induction of a calcium-activated inward current at -60 mV. This inward current was irreversibly potentiated by photolysis of caged GTPgammaS within neurons implicating the involvement of a G-protein. The [Sar9, Met(O2)11] substance P-induced inward current was inhibited by the phospholipase C inhibitor U-73122, and by the inclusion of the inositol-1,4,5-triphosphate receptor antagonist heparin in the electrode solution. These findings suggest that neurokinin1 receptors depolarize cholinergic interneurons in the rat striatum primarily through a phosphoinositide signalling pathway.
The pathophysiologic basis of tardive dyskinesia remains unclear. It has been proposed that tardive dyskinesia may be a result of excitotoxic neurodegeneration in the striatum caused by a neuroleptic-induced increase in striatal glutamate release and impaired energy metabolism. To investigate this hypothesis, haloperidol decanoate (38 mg/kg/four weeks intramuscularly) and the succinate dehydrogenase inhibitor 3-nitropropionic acid (8 mg/kg/day via subcutaneous osmotic mini-pumps), were administered alone or together for 16 weeks to four-months-old rats. Control rats received sesame oil intramuscularly and had empty plastic tubes subcutaneously. Vacuous chewing movements, a putative analogue to human tardive dyskinesia, were recorded during and after drug treatment. Haloperidol alone, 3-nitropropionic acid alone, and 3-nitropropionic acid+haloperidol treatments induced an increase in vacuous chewing movements. However, vacuous chewing movements were more pronounced and appeared earlier in rats treated with 3-nitropropionic acid+haloperidol. After drug withdrawal, increases in vacuous chewing movements persisted for 16 weeks in the haloperidol alone and 3-nitropropionic acid+haloperidol group and for four weeks in the 3-nitropropionic acid alone group. Brains from each group were analysed for histopathological alterations. Bilateral striatal lesions were present only in rats with high levels of vacuous chewing movements in the 3-nitropropionic acid+haloperidol-treated rats. Nerve cell depletion and astrogliosis were prominent histopathologic features. There was selective neuronal sparing of both large- and medium-sized aspiny striatal neurons. These results suggest that mild mitochondrial impairment in combination with neuroleptics results in striatal excitotoxic neurodegeneration which may underlie the development of persistent vacuous chewing movements in rats and possibly irreversible tardive dyskinesia in humans.
Allosteric regulators of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionate (AMPA) receptors include 2,3-benzodiazepines such as GYKI 52466 and GYKI 53655 and the chaotropic anion thiocyanate that inhibit, and benzothiadiazines such as cyclothiazide that potentiate AMPA receptor currents. Here we sought to determine whether the allosteric regulators modulate AMPA receptors at a common or distinct allosteric sites by comparing their actions on AMPA- and kainate-evoked currents in cultured rat hippocampal neurons and Xenopus oocytes expressing recombinant AMPA receptor subunits. GYKI 52466 and thiocyanate blocked AMPA-evoked currents in a concentration-dependent manner (IC50 values, 8.2 microM and 1.1 mM, respectively); in contrast, kainate-evoked currents were blocked by GYKI 52466, but were potentiated by high concentrations of thiocyanate (&gt; or = 3 mM). Thiocyanate enhanced the rate of desensitization and slowed recovery from desensitization of AMPA-evoked currents, whereas GYKI 52466 failed to affect desensitization. Among neurons in the hippocampal cultures, there was cell-to-cell variability in the sensitivity to block of AMPA-evoked currents by thiocyanate that was correlated with the degree of potentiation by cyclothiazide. Moreover, cyclothiazide caused a parallel rightward shift in the concentration-response curve for thiocyanate block, and slowed the onset of thiocyanate block to a rate that was similar to that of cyclothiazide dissociation. Together, these observations suggest that thiocyanate and cyclothiazide act at non-distinct allosteric sites. GYKI 52466 blocked AMPA receptor responses to a similar extent, irrespective of the degree of cyclothiazide potentiation. Moreover, the kinetics of GYKI 53655 block in the presence of cyclothiazide were not consistent with a competitive interaction. As is the case for cyclothiazide, SCN- exhibited greater affinity for flip than for flop AMPA receptor splice variants. In particular, GluR1flip/GluR2flip was especially sensitive to thiocyanate block. We conclude that thiocyanate, a flip-preferring allosteric modulator like cyclothiazide, appears to act by enhancing desensitization at a site that may overlap the site where cyclothiazide reduces desensitization, whereas 2,3-benzodiazepines act at a distinct site and the block does not involve a modification of desensitization.
Concepts underlying memory consolidation invoke change in synapse structure and function. Such concepts relate to change in connectivity pattern enabled by increased synapse number, change in synaptic configuration resulting from overproduction and selective pruning, or structural change in synapse transmission zones. This study undertook the unbiased estimation of learning associated change in dendritic spine number on granule cells in the hippocampal dentate gyrus. Rats were trained to acquire a passive avoidance response after which spine number in the mid-molecular layer of the dorsal dentate gyrus were estimated at increasing post-training times. This showed there to be an increase in spine density with time after training which was initiated at 3 h, and maximal at 6 h. The increase at this latter time was not detected in passive control animals. At 72 h post-training spine density was seen to return to basal levels. These results are consistent with the various models for synapse connectivity change in memory formation whether they relate to altered number or connectivity pattern.
The potentiated afferent mixed synapses of the Mauthner cells of fry and adult goldfish in stumps of the medulla oblongata incubated long-term in vitro were studied by electrophysiological and electron microscopic methods. It was shown that brief high-frequency stimulation of posterior branches of the eighth nerve induced a long-term potentiation of electrotonic transmission at large and small mixed club endings. It was about 135% upon subthreshold stimulation and about 200% upon suprathreshold stimulation. The ultrastructural analysis of ultrathin sections of potentiated mixed synaptic endings revealed an increase in the dimensions of desmosome-like contacts which was proportional to the degree of potentiation, about 135% or 200%, depending on the type of stimulation. The dimensions of gap junctions remained unchanged. The dimensions of active zones at potentiated synapses were reduced two-fold as compared with their unpotentiated counterparts, irrespective of the type of stimulation. Considering that desmosome-like contacts consist predominantly of F-actin, a molecule which possesses electroconductivity, it can be assumed that this cytoskeletal protein is involved in the process of potentiation. The increase in the synapse electrical conductivity can be mediated either directly, by shunting the synaptic junction with polymer actin filaments in the region of desmosome-like contacts, or indirectly, via the interaction of actin with gap junction connections situated nearby.
Olfactory learning is associated with substantial neural changes at the level of the accessory and main olfactory bulb, during both pheromonal learning in mated mice and lamb odour recognition in post partum sheep. These forms of learning occur during &quot;sensitive periods&quot; and an important question is whether similar neural changes occur in the olfactory bulb at other times. We used a classical conditioning procedure to establish an olfactory discrimination in adult mice and then measured changes in neurotransmitter levels in the main olfactory bulb in response to the presentation of the conditioned odours. Presentation of the conditioned, but not the non-conditioned, odour resulted in significant increases in the levels of certain transmitters, including glutamate from the mitral/tufted cells, GABA from the granule and periglomerular cells and noradrenaline from the centrifugal projection from the locus coeruleus. Overall, there was a decrease in the ratio of excitatory to inhibitory neurotransmitters in the olfactory bulb in response to the conditioned, but not the non-conditioned odour. Moreover, the magnitude of the decrease in this ratio was correlated with the level of behavioural response to the conditioned odour. These findings support the hypothesis that changes in the gain of the reciprocal synapses between mitral/tufted neurons and their inhibitory interneurons are a general feature of olfactory learning.
Selective death of magnocellular vasopressinergic neurons in the hypothalamus has been reported in cases of hereditary and idiopathic diabetes insipidus and after experimental lesions of the hypothalamo-neurohypophyseal pathway. To identify trophic factors that promote survival of these neurons, an in vitro model system was established in which organotypic cultures of the rat hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus were maintained in chemically-defined medium. We observe that the majority of magnocellular vasopressinergic neurons die in these cultures, while other cell populations such as corticotrophin-releasing factor producing parvicellular and oxytocin producing magnocellular cells retain a well preserved cytoarchitectonic organization. Degenerating vasopressinergic cells exhibit morphological signs of apoptosis and stained positively when analysed by the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase biotinylated dUTP nick end-labelling assay. Partial survival of vasopressinergic neurons occurred after co-culturing the paraventricular nucleus with neurohypophyseal explants, indicating that target-derived factors may be required for the survival of these neurons. Cell survival is dramatically increased by the administration of ciliary neurotrophic factor and leukemia inhibiting factor, but not by interleukin 6 or the members of the neurotrophin family. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction followed by Southern analysis shows the presence of ciliary neurotrophic factor messenger RNA in the neurohypophysis. Thus, endogenous ciliary neurotrophic factor and leukemia inhibiting factor, produced by neurohypophyseal cells may function as a physiological survival factor for neurosecretory vasopressinergic neurons.
Insulin-like growth factor-1 has been found to be involved in the regulation of several aspects of brain metabolism, neural transmission, neural growth and differentiation. Because decreased insulin-like growth factor-1 and/or its receptors are likely to contribute to age-related abnormalities in behavior, the strategy of replacing this protein is one potential therapeutic alternative. The present study was designed to assess whether cognitive deficits with ageing may be partially overcome by increasing the availability of insulin-like growth factor-1 in the brain. Fischer-344 x Brown Norway hybrid (F1) male rats of two ages (four-months-old and 32-months-old) were preoperatively trained in behavioral tasks and subsequently implanted with osmotic minipumps to infuse the insulin-like growth factor-1 (23.5 microg/pump) or a vehicle, i.c.v. Animals were retested at two weeks and four weeks after surgery. Insulin-like growth factor-1 improved working memory in the repeated acquisition task and in the object recognition task. An improvement was also observed in the place discrimination task, which assesses reference memory. Insulin-like growth factor-1 had no effect on sensorimotor skills nor exploration, but mildly reversed some age-related deficits in emotionality. These data indicate a potentially important role for insulin-like growth factor-1 in the reversal of age-related behavioral impairments in rodents.
The effects of an infusion (5 ng) of the neurosteroid pregnenolone sulfate into the nucleus basalis magnocellularis on acetylcholine release in the frontoparietal cortex and basolateral amygdala were evaluated during the 130 min post-injection in male Sprague-Dawley rats using in vivo microdialysis coupled &quot;on line&quot; with high performance liquid chromatography detection. One week later, the same animals were tested for spatial memory after another infusion of pregnenolone sulfate (5 ng) into the nucleus basalis. Results show that pregnenolone sulfate enhanced acetylcholine release by more than 50% of baseline concentrations in the two structures relative to a control injection. The duration of this effect was longer in cortex (130 min) than in amygdala (30 min). Furthermore, pregnenolone sulfate improved memory performance in a task based upon spatial recognition of a familiar environment. A significant positive correlation (r=0.49) was found between the recognition score in the spatial memory test and the levels of acetylcholine release in the frontoparietal cortex but not in the basolateral amygdala. Therefore, our results suggest that the nucleus basalis magnocellularis-cortical pathway could be in part responsible for the promnesic effect of pregnenolone sulfate. This neurosteroid acts as a negative modulator of the GABA(A) receptor complex and positively modulates the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor, possibly resulting in a global stimulatory effect on central cholinergic neurotransmission.
The dynamic clamp technique was used in thalamocortical neurons of the rat and cat dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus in vitro to investigate the effects of the hyperpolarization-activated cation current, Ih, and of its neuromodulation on burst firing and delta oscillations. Specific block of endogenous Ih using 4-(N-ethyl-N-phenylamino)-1,2-dimethyl-6-(methylamino)pyridinium chloride (ZD7288) (300 microM) abolished the depolarizing &quot;sag&quot; response to negative current steps, markedly increased the latency and shortened the duration of the low-threshold Ca2+ potentials, and decreased the number of action potentials in the burst evoked by the low-threshold Ca2+ potential. Subsequent introduction of artificial Ih using the dynamic clamp re-instated the &quot;sag&quot; and all the original properties of the low-threshold Ca2+ potential. In the absence of ZD7288, introduction of artificial outward Ih with the intention of abolishing endogenous Ih removed the depolarizing &quot;sag&quot; and produced similar effects on the low-threshold Ca2+ potentials as those observed during the pharmacological block of Ih. Application of ZD7288 to thalamocortical neurons displaying delta oscillations led to a reduction in the voltage range of their existence or to a complete cessation of this behaviour. A subsequent introduction of artificial Ih re-enabled the generation of delta oscillations. In the presence of ZD7288, physiologically relevant positive shifts in the voltage-dependence of artificial Ih increased the amplitude and duration of the low-threshold Ca2+ potential and increased the likelihood of delta oscillations while negative shifts had opposite effects. These results highlight the important difference between the dependence of burst firing and oscillations on membrane potential and their dependence on the properties of Ih, and demonstrate that the modulation by Ih of low-threshold Ca2+ potentials and burst firing in thalamocortical neurons, as well as the ability of these neurons to generate delta oscillations, is more elaborate than previously described.
P2X receptor-mediated responses to the ATP analogue, alpha,beta-methylene ATP, in rat brain cannot be accounted for by the receptor proteins known to be present. Such experiments are often performed on cells from neonates and, since differential developmental regulation of P2X1 and P2X2 receptor messenger RNAs has already been demonstrated, this is likely to be the case for other P2X receptors. This study was designed to address the possible existence of alpha,beta-methylene ATP-sensitive P2X3 receptors in rat brains of various ages using a P2X3 receptor-selective antibody. P2X3 receptor protein was found in discrete regions of the embryonic (E16) and neonatal rat brain (P7 and P14) but was not detectable in adult animals. This is the first demonstration of the presence of these receptors in brains from various ages of rat and the differential expression of these receptors in neonates may account for some reported electrophysiological responses to alpha,beta-methylene ATP.
Neuropathic pain is poorly managed by conventional analgesic therapy, such as non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and opiates. The development of animal models of peripheral neural damage has aided in our understanding of the pathology and pharmacology of neuropathic pain. This report is the first clear demonstration using selective neurokinin-1 receptor antagonists of a potentially novel therapeutic approach to the treatment of neuropathic pain resulting from peripheral nerve damage in a guinea-pig model. The neurokinin-1 receptor antagonists, SDZ NKT 343 and LY 303,870 significantly reduced mechanical hyperalgesia following oral and intrathecal administration. (R,R)-SDZ NK T343, the enantiomer of SDZ NKT 343 did not show anti-hyperalgesic activity. RPR 100,893 showed significant anti-hyperalgesic activity only following intrathecal administration suggesting poor absorption or low level penetration of the blood-brain barrier. These results imply that neurokinin-1 receptor antagonists offer a new class of anti-hyperalgesic drugs with a largely central site of action in neuropathic pain.

Prostaglandin (PG) s D2 and E2 are the major arachidonic acid metabolites in the mammalian brain. PGD synthase, the enzyme that produces PGD2 in the brain, is mainly localized in the arachnoid membrane and choroid plexus. It is secreted into the cerebrospinal fluid and circulates in the brain through the ventricular system. PGD2 induces sleep by acting on the surface of the ventro-medial region of the rostral basal forebrain, the signal of which is probably transmitted into the brain parenchyma by adenosine via adenosine A2a receptors. Fos expression experiments suggest that PGD2 inhibits histaminergic arousal neurons of the tuberomammillary nucleus (TMN) in the posterior hypothalamus by activating inhibitory neurons in the ventrolateral preoptic area (VLPO). However, PGE2 causes wakefulness by activating arousal neurons in the TMN via AMPA type excitatory amino acid receptors. Therefore, PGD2, acting as a sleep-inducer, and PGE2, acting as a wakefulness-promoter, jointly regulate the generation of sleep and wakefulness in the mammalian brain.
Using the indirect immunofluorescence method, the distribution of cyclic GMP (cGMP) and nitric oxide synthase (NOS) was investigated in lumbar 5 dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) of untreated rats 1, 3 and 7 days following sciatic nerve section (axotomy). Untreated and axotomized (7 days) rats were also studied after perfusion with the NO donor sodium nitroprusside (SNP). Moreover, rats were injected with carrageenan lambda into the unilateral hindpaw and studied after 6 h, 1 day or 2 days. An increase in the number of cGMP-positive satellite cell profiles was found in axotomized DRGs at 3 days with lower numbers after 7 days. In contrast, no change in cGMP-like immunoreactivity (LI) in satellite cell profiles was detected 1 day after axotomy or 6h, 1 day or 2 days after inflammation, as compared to controls. Axotomy induced a marked increase in the percentage of NOS-immunoreactive (IR) neuron profiles in the ipsilateral DRGs as follows: 3.0% at 1 day, 15% at 3 days and 25% at 7 days, whereas no significant change was found in the expression of NOS-LI in the inflamed DRGs as compared to untreated DRGs. Between 15 and 20% of all NOS-positive neuron profiles were surrounded by, or in partial contact with, cGMP-IR satellite cells in controls 1 and 3 days after axotomy, whereas the corresponding figure was around 5% after 7 days. After SNP perfusion 60-70% of all DRG neuron profiles were partly or totally associated with cGMP-positive satellite cell profiles, with no significant difference between untreated and axotomized ganglia. The nerve injury-induced, parallel upregulation of NOS in DRG neurons and cGMP in satellite cells in the initial phase after axotomy suggests an involvement of NO as a signalling molecule between neurons and satellite cells in DRGs, especially after peripheral nerve injury, perhaps exerting a survival effect as recently proposed by Thippeswamy and Morris (1997).
Inherited ataxias are a heterogeneous group of disorders characterized by autosomal dominant and recessive inheritance. Recent advances in genetic research have resulted in an improved comprehension of their clinical presentation. Autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxias (ADCAs) include spinocerebellar ataxias (SCAs) and dentatorubral-pallidoluysian atrophy (DRPLA); six of these have been found to be trinucleotide repeat disorders. Episodic ataxia, types 1 and 2, are at present recognized to be channelopathies, caused by point mutations. Friedreich's ataxia (FA) which is an autosomal recessive disorder, resulting from a a unique trinucleotide repeat, is now recognized to have a wide age of onset and clinical spectrum. Ataxia-telangiectasia (AT), also an autosomal recessive cerebellar ataxia, is characterized by immunodeficiency. In this article, the genetic and clinical characteristics of these diseases are reviewed in detail.
Children with attention deficit disorder and hyperactivity (ADHD) were compared with two other clinical groups, namely, children with autism and children with dyslexia, with respect to several peaks of the ERP. By using these other clinical groups, it was studied whether amplitude differences between children and ADHD and normal control children, which were found in an earlier study, were specific to children with ADHD. ERPs were measured in response to stimuli in an auditory and a visual oddball task. Only with respect to the P3 and Pz, measured in response to deviant auditory stimuli, did the children with ADHD show smaller amplitudes than both autistic children and those with dyslexia. It was concluded that a smaller amplitude of this peak is specific to children with ADHD.
To define the relationship between aspects of memory concerning encoding and recall of short texts and hypnosis, standardized stories were narrated to 12 subjects, both during ordinary state of consciousness and after hypnotic induction by means of the Stanford Hypnotic Susceptibility Scale (Form C). The narrative material used as a stimulus was based on several stories taken from popular oral tradition, previously analyzed according to the classic criteria proposed by Rumelhart in 1975 and Mandler and Johnson in 1977. The subjects' memory performance during both experimental conditions was tape-recorded and compared with the analysis of the original stories (Terminal Nodes) as well as with the higher linguistic structures of the scheme (Basic Nodes), according to Rumelhart's typology. During hypnosis, the subjects recalled significantly fewer narrative elements at both levels of analysis (Terminal Nodes and Basic Nodes). We conclude that hypnosis does not enhance recent memory.
Alterations of monoamine metabolites in CSF and behavioral abnormalities were studied in rats with neonatal hippocampal lesions and controls. Lesions of the ventral hippocampus were produced bilaterally by ibotenic acid on postnatal day 7. Lesion-induced neurochemical alterations and behavioral impairments were examined concurrently when rats were 12 weeks old. CSF from the cisterna magna was sampled repeatedly from freely moving rats. The levels of free 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC), homovanillic acid (HVA), and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) in CSF were determined. An exposure to a novel environment induced hyperexploratory behavior and elevated the level of free DOPAC in CSF in lesioned rats. Although a swim stress increased the levels of free DOPAC and 5-HIAA in CSF in both control and lesioned groups, rats with hippocampal lesions had a further elevation of free DOPAC in CSF and greater spontaneous activity relative to controls shortly after stress. Amphetamine (1.5 mg/kg, i.p.) induced hyperlocomotion in lesioned rats compared to controls. For the control group, the levels of the three monoamine metabolites in CSF were not significantly influenced by amphetamine. However, for the lesioned group, the level of DOPAC significantly decreased compared to preinjection of amphetamine. The results indicate that neonatal hippocampal lesion-induced impairments can be manifested by behavioral and neurochemical abnormalities. Alterations of monoamine metabolites in CSF may be determined quantitatively and used as indices for monitoring lesion-impaired monoaminergic function in the central nervous system.


Ever since Freud created psychoanalysis over 100 years ago, it has been popular, especially in the USA. However, biological psychiatry is now at the forefront and the emphasis is on neurosciences and pharmacotherapy. Still, the question remains, what place is there for psychotherapy in psychiatric practice? We need to be aware of the need for psychotherapy for some patients. This has been scientifically demonstrated in the study of patients with moderate and severe major depression. It has been convincingly shown that there is a place for interpersonal therapy and for cognitive behavioral therapy. Moderately depressed patients may benefit from a regimen of psychotherapy. In contrast, those with severe depression also need antidepressant medication. Because people in the Pacific Rim countries are heterogeneous, their requirements may be diverse. Asian populations need emphasis on the family as a part of the treatment team. Biological and cultural issues also enter the picture. Using the example of the flushing response, 25% of Koreans versus 50% of the Han Chinese and Japanese have the flushing response. Confucius' teachings have influenced Chinese, Koreans and Japanese for over 2000 years. The need for therapy and education is great. One solution is in primary and secondary prevention with cognitive behavioral classes such as the depression prevention course.
The first application of computed tomographic scan to the schizophrenic brain by Johnstone et al. initiated a new neuroscience research era with new perspectives on the neurobiological aspects of major psychoses. The most common paradigm in the flurry of brain imaging studies following the first report was the case-control study comparing controls and patients with major psychoses. However, some application was also made of sophisticated case-control paradigms, such as comparisons between affected and non-affected identical twins discordant for schizophrenia. Very few prospective cohort studies have been applied in this field. During the past two decades of studies, several brain morphological features have converged. Both schizophrenics and patients with affective disorders showed subtle but significant quantitative differences in brain structures compared with controls. For schizophrenia, the differences were in the lateral and third ventricles, medial temporal lobe, supratemporal gyrus, frontal lobe and such subcortical nuclei as striatum and thalamus. For affective disorders, they were in the cortical sulci, lateral ventricle, striatum, pituitary and adrenal glands. Generally, the differences were greater in schizophrenics, in males and on the left side than in patients with affective disorders, in females and on the right side. Qualitative morphological abnormalities such as T2-weighted hyperintensity were also demonstrated in elderly patients with affective disorders. For both schizophrenia and affective disorders, abnormal anatomical neurocircuit models of the respective pathophysiologies have been proposed to explain the brain multi-lesions. Some recommendations for future research in the structural brain imaging of major psychoses have also been proposed.
Haloperidol treatment has been shown to produce oxidative stress in patients with acute psychosis. Oxidative stress has also been implicated in the extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) produced by haloperidol. Supporting the oxidative stress hypothesis, vitamin E (antioxidant) has demonstrated therapeutic efficacy in idiopathic parkinsonism. The prophylactic efficacy of vitamin E (antioxidant) on haloperidol-induced EPS was examined in a randomized controlled trial. The sample consisted of 24 acute psychotic patients hospitalized for a 2-week trial. All patients received oral haloperidol 10 mg/day. The sample was equally randomized to receive either haloperidol alone or haloperidol + vitamin E (3200 IU/day). EPS was rated at recruitment, both live and with video records, and on days 3, 7, 10 and 14. Psychopathology was rated at recruitment and weekly thereafter. Vitamin E had no prophylactic effect on drug-induced EPS, though it did not interfere with the therapeutic efficacy of haloperidol.
The effects of the dopamine D3/D2 receptor agonists quinpirole, quinelorane and (+/-)7-OH-DPAT [(+/-) 7-hydroxy-2(N,N-di-n-propylamino) tetralin] on intracranial self-stimulation (ICSS) were investigated. Rats implanted with bipolar electrodes into the lateral hypothalamus were trained to lever press on a continuous reinforcement schedule for positively reinforcing trains of electrical stimulation. Three measures of responding were calculated; the frequency at which responding was 50% of the maximum (M50), the asymptotic response rate and the total area under the curve (AUC) for each frequency sweep. Quinpirole (2.2-66.0 microg/kg SC) significantly increased M50 and reduced both asymptote and AUC. Quinelorane (0.25-79.0 microg/kg SC) had no significant effect on M50 values but significantly reduced both asymptote and AUC. (+/-)7-OH-DPAT (2.5-74.0 microg/kg) did not significantly affect any of the measures. The data show that low doses of quinpirole and quinelorane, but not (+/-)7-OH-DPAT, inhibit ICSS maintained by electrodes in the lateral hypothalamus. Either dopamine D2 or dopamine D3 receptor stimulation may play a role in mediating ICSS inhibition, but studies with more selective receptor agonists and antagonists are required to define the role of each receptor.
We investigated whether the local intrathalamic infusion of a muscarinic acetylcholine receptor agonist (oxotremorine) at either the reticular nucleus of thalamus (NRT) or the ventroposteromedial nucleus of thalamus (VPM) suppresses thalamocortically generated neocortical high-voltage spindles (HVSs). In addition, we studied whether the intracerebroventricular (ICV) infusion of a selective muscarinic M2 acetylcholine receptor antagonist (methoctramine) could block the suppression of HVSs induced by either systemic (IP) administration of an anticholinesterase drug [tetrahydroaminoacridine (THA)] or ICV infusion of oxotremorine in rats. Intrathalamic administration of oxotremorine at 3 and 15 microg in the NRT, and at 15 microg in the VPM suppressed HVSs. ICV oxotremorine at 30 and 100 microg and IP THA at 3 mg/kg decreased HVSs. ICV methoctramine at 100 microg increased HVSs and completely blocked the decrease in HVSs produced by oxotremorine 100 microg and THA 3 mg/kg. The results suggest that activation of muscarinic M2 acetylcholine receptors in thalamic nuclei (NRT and VPM) can suppress thalamocortical oscillations and that ICV or systemically administered drugs that activate either directly (oxotremorine and methoctramine) or indirectly (THA) the muscarinic M2 acetylcholine receptors may modulate neocortical HVSs via the thalamus.
To assess change over time in health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in diabetic patients in primary health care and differences to general Swedish population samples, 341 diabetic subjects in 1992 and 413 in 1995, aged 20-84 years, were chosen from three community health centres (CHCs) in the Metropolitan Stockholm area and compared to controls matched by age and sex in randomly selected samples of 2,366 subjects in 1991 and 2,500 in 1995 from the general population. HRQoL was assessed by the Swedish Health-Related Quality of Life Survey (SWED-QUAL), adapted from the Medical Outcomes Study, which measures aspects of physical, mental, social and general health in 13 scales. Information on diabetic and general medical data were extracted from the medical records at the CHCs. HRQoL was lower in diabetic subjects compared with the general population in both 1992 and 1995 in all scales except family functioning and marital functioning. The level of HRQoL did not change significantly between the diabetic samples, but decreased in the population samples, making the difference compared to diabetic patients smaller in five of the scales. The most significant predicting factors for the SWED-QUAL results in diabetic patients in 1995 were the vascular and non-vascular co-morbidity.

Morphological features indicating occurrence of two types of extrasynaptic chemical transmission were observed within rat basal ganglia. (1) Striatonigral neurons containing substance P (SP) sent many axon collaterals equipped with axonal varicosities to the striatum: the varicosities displayed synaptophysin-like immunoreactivity (-LI). However, only 15% of the varicosities appeared to be in close contact with structures showing SP receptor (SPR)-LI. Many of axon terminals of striatonigral neurons were confirmed electron microscopically not to be in synaptic contact with SPR-like immunoreactive structures within the striatum. SP released from the varicosities might, at least partly, diffuse to reach SPR at distance from the release sites. (2) Immunoreactivities for metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) 4 a, 7 a, 7 b and 8 were in axon terminals within the globus pallidus (external segment of the globus pallidus in primates). The immunoreactivities disappeared after destruction of the striatum, but not after destruction of the subthalamic nucleus. The immunoreactivity for mGluR 7 a was confirmed electron microscopically to be within axon terminals showing glutamic acid decarboxylase-LI. Glutamate released from glutamatergic subthalamopallidal neurons might partly spilled over from the synaptic sites to reach mGluRs on &quot;nearby&quot; axon terminals of GABAergic striatopallidal neurons. Functional significance of thalamostriatal and corticosubthalamic fibers was also discussed.

In the past decade there has been increasing interest in the part that general practice can play in the care of people with epilepsy. Primary care services for epilepsy vary from practice to practice. Some studies have suggested that people with epilepsy prefer secondary care services and are not keen for their epilepsy to be managed in general practice, but much of the data were collected in secondary care. This study collected data from various sources about present provision of services, patient satisfaction with services, views about service development, areas where GP knowledge may be improved and whether the site of data collection influenced the results. A questionnaire was piloted, then distributed and collected through branches of the British Epilepsy Association, general practice and secondary care clinics. Data collected were both quantitative and qualitative. One hundred and seventy-eight questionnaires were collected from three sources. The responders were a severe seizure group. Structured care in general practice was uncommon with 54% being seen only when needed. Dose and type of antiepileptic medication was rarely altered in general practice. Information about their condition was given to 44% of the responders by their GP. Sixty-one percent would prefer their epilepsy care to be 'shared' between primary and secondary services. The majority of patients were satisfied with GP services, felt they could easily discuss their epilepsy, but 58% felt they 'rarely' or 'never' received enough information about their condition in general practice. Satisfaction with GP care varied, dependent on where the data were collected. Patients would value more information and more time to discuss the effects of their epilepsy. In conclusion general practice care for epilepsy is still reactive. Patients value more information and more time to discuss implications. The data collection point affects the results; any conclusions about the organisation of epilepsy care should draw data from community patient samples.
The effect of repetitive 100 Hz EA stimulation on the characteristics of binding of kappa opioid receptors in discrete brain regions and the spinal cord of rats was investigated by radioligand binding assay. 100 Hz EA was administered once a day (30 min) for 7 d. Changes in Bmax and Kd of kappa opioid receptors of 4 discrete brain regions (cortex, midbrain, pons-medulla and striatum) and spinal cord were observed at d 1, 3, 5 and 7, respectively. It was found that the numbers (Bmax) of kappa opioid receptors of all the brain regions observed were decreased during the development of 100 Hz EA tolerance with a differential time course. In rat cortex and pons-medulla, a marked down regulation of kappa opioid receptors occurred within 24 h and remained at a low level throughout the observation. The Bmax of kappa receptor in spinal cord showed a bell-shaped curve, i.e., up regulation in the first 5 days and down regulation at d 7. In contrast a slow and steady down regulation was found in the midbrain and striatum, matching the course of development of 100 Hz EA tolerance. No significant changes in Kd of [3H]-U69593 were found except for a decrease of Kd in midbrain. In conclusion, administration of 100 Hz EA 30 min per day for 7 consecutive days resulted in a significant down regulation of kappa opioid receptor in CNS, especially in midbrain and striatum.
We examined associations, in terms of relative and population-attributable risks, between shared social environment at the neighbourhood level and (1) treated incidence of non-psychotic, non-organic disorders, and (2) subsequent level of service consumption. The multilevel analysis used linked records of all individuals in contact for the first time with any catchment area mental health service for non-psychotic, non-organic disorder over various specified time periods between 1981 and 1995. Socioeconomic indicators of 36 neighbourhoods in the city of Maastricht yielded a multivariately defined neighbourhood deprivation score. There were significant linear trends in the association between level of deprivation and treated incidence, especially in the population under 35 years of age (adjusted rate ratio for linear trend 1.17, 95% confident interval 1.11-1.23), who constituted around half of the patient population. The fraction of the incidence of psychiatric disorder attributable to deprivation was 17.8%. Multilevel analyses of rates of a second cohort, with cases divided according to level of service use over a standardised follow-up of 5 years after first contact with psychiatric services, revealed that the effect of deprivation scores on rates declined with intensity of out-patient service use, but increased with level of in-patient use. Up to 50% of in-patient episodes in this group could be attributed to neighbourhood level of deprivation. The increase in risk conferred by neighbourhood deprivation remained after adjustment for the individual-level equivalent. The findings therefore suggest that elements in the shared social environment influence both incidence and severity of non-psychotic, non-organic disorders, over and above any individual-level effect.
This study investigates the impact of methadone treatment on inpatient care admissions and mortality among 331 methadone-maintained patients compared with 1,483 similar untreated opiate misusers. The methadone patients manifested a lower mortality during treatment than the comparison group and those patients who had left their treatment. The annual incidence rate decreased from 1.4 inpatient care admissions per year for those who had stayed 0-1 year, less than 1 for those who stayed more than 2 years, and 0.3 for those who had stayed longer (&gt;4 years) in methadone treatment. A similar decrease occurred in both sexes. The incidence rate decreased more among the HIV-negative than the HIV-positive patients. The low incidence of inpatient care during treatment may be due to treatment but may also be partly due to selection factors.
Alterations in the density of GABA and glutamate immunolabeling within nerve terminals in the shell region of the nucleus accumbens were assessed in rats withdrawn from intravenous cocaine exposure. Four groups of rats were used: one group self-administered cocaine (0.42 mg/kg/infusion) in daily 3-h sessions for approximately 2 weeks, two additional groups received either saline or cocaine in a noncontingent fashion, and a fourth comprised a drug-naive, age-matched control group. Immunogold electron microscopy was used to quantify presynaptic terminal GABA and glutamate density within the vesicular and mitochondrial pools approximately 18 days following the last drug or saline exposure in the treatment groups. A significant 27.7% decrease in vesicular glutamate density within asymmetrical nerve terminals was observed in animals that self-administered cocaine as compared to controls. This group also showed an 18.6% decrease in vesicular nerve terminal glutamate immunolabeling as compared to animals that were administered a similar total dose of cocaine in a response-independent fashion. No significant changes in the density of nerve terminal GABA vesicular immunolabeling were observed in any groups. For both transmitters, no differences were detected in the density of immunolabeling within the presynaptic mitochondrial (i.e., metabolic) pool. These results demonstrate that glutamate density is suppressed in the shell region of the nucleus accumbens following withdrawal from 2 weeks of cocaine exposure. The findings also suggest that the motivational aspects that accompany self-administration may participate in this reduction.

The brains of higher mammals are extraordinary integrative devices. Signals from large numbers of functionally specialized groups of neurons distributed over many brain regions are integrated to generate a coherent, multimodal scene. Signals from the environment are integrated with ongoing, patterned neural activity that provides them with a meaningful context. We review recent advances in neurophysiology and neuroimaging that are beginning to reveal the neural mechanisms of integration. In addition, we discuss concepts and measures derived from information theory that lend a theoretical basis to the notion of complexity as integration of information and suggest new experimental tests of these concepts.
Attention and Performance XVIII: Control of Cognitive Processes, 13-17 July 1998, Windsor, UK.
From their earliest experiments, researchers using Caenorhabditis elegans have been interested in the role of genes in the development and function of the nervous system. As the C. elegans Genome Project completes the genomic sequence, we review the accomplishments of these researchers and the impact that the Genome Project has bad on their research. We also speculate on future directions in this research that are enabled by the efforts of the Genome Project.
Golgi ranked the peripheral reticulum--which adheres intimately to nerve cell surfaces--alongside the intracellular reticulum, or Golgi apparatus,which immortalized his name. At first dismissed as an artefact of capricious staining techniques, this peripheral reticulum, or perineuronal net, is now recognized as a genuine entity in neurocytology. It represents a complex of extracellular matrix molecules interposed between the meshwork of glial processes, from which they are indistinguishable, and nerve-cell surfaces. In no other branch of neuroscience has the waxing and waning of interest in any morphological entity been so pronounced as in the case of the perineuronal net. This review traces the history of this enigmatic structure from its conception to the present time, brings to light the keen observational powers of morphologists at the turn of the century and reveals how their sagacious forethought anticipated current thinking on the role of perineuronal nets.

In the past five years, an extended series (P2Y1-n) of metabotropic nucleotide (P2) receptors has been cloned from vertebrate tissues; these receptors are activated by either ATP or UTP, or both nucleotides. While certain cloned P2Y receptors appear to correspond functionally to particular native P2 receptor phenotypes, such pharmacological phenotypes could be explained by either a combination of several members of the P2Y1-n series being coexpressed in the same tissue or the existence of novel, uncloned P2Y subtypes. Here, Brian King, Andrea Townsend-Nicholson and Geoffrey Burnstock review recent findings on the matter of pharmacological relationships between native P2 and cloned P2Y receptors.

Adaptation to a moving visual pattern induces shifts in the perceived motion of subsequently viewed moving patterns. Explanations of such effects are typically based on adaptation-induced sensitivity changes in spatio-temporal frequency tuned mechanisms (STFMs). An alternative hypothesis is that adaptation occurs in mechanisms that independently encode direction and speed (DSMs). Yet a third possibility is that adaptation occurs in mechanisms that encode 2D pattern velocity (VMs). We performed a series of psychophysical experiments to examine predictions made by each of the three hypotheses. The results indicate that: (1) adaptation-induced shifts are relatively independent of spatial pattern of both adapting and test stimuli; (2) the shift in perceived direction of motion of a plaid stimulus after adaptation to a grating indicates a shift in the motion of the plaid pattern, and not a shift in the motion of the plaid components; and (3) the 2D pattern of shift in perceived velocity radiates away from the adaptation velocity, and is inseparable in speed and direction of motion. Taken together, these results are most consistent with the VM adaptation hypothesis.
Until now, electrophysiological studies of the vertebrate olfactory bulb have tested only 'generalist' cues. These studies suggest that odorants are discriminated by a broadly distributed spatial map. In this study, we tested for the first time in a vertebrate the hypothesis that 'specialist' cues (pheromones) are discriminated by a more restricted component of the olfactory bulb. Our model is the male goldfish, Carassius auratus, for which five sex pheromones with both behavioral and physiological activity have now been identified. Electrical activity (electroencephalography: EEG) was recorded over a 12-point grid from the surface of the olfactory bulb, while fish were exposed to one of ten stimuli including: five sex pheromones, two amino acids, two bile steroids and a control. Evoked activity was evaluated by time series analysis. Power ratios were calculated by dividing the power of the dominant frequency in the power spectrum before stimulation by the power of the dominant frequency during stimulation. Next, the average magnitudes of odorant responses were compared using analysis of variance (ANOVA). The spatial patterning of these responses was also described using cluster analysis, which grouped odorants based on the similarity of their spatial patterns of activity. Although all odorants elicited EEG responses with similar dominant frequencies, odorant-specific differences were evident in the size and distribution of these responses. Sex pheromones and bile steroids elicited relatively small responses that were spatially restricted in distinctive manners, although some overlap was evident. In contrast, amino acids consistently produced large responses at all positions. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that vertebrate pheromones are discriminated by a distinctive subcomponent of the vertebrate olfactory system comprised of a relatively small number of olfactory neurons.

Human psychophysical functions for sweetness are similar for sucrose and fructose, but different for glucose, and suggest different mechanisms for fructose and glucose. Drosophila behavioral and electrophysiological data are similar to the human data and indicate separate receptor cell mechanisms for the monosaccharides. Moreover, fructose 'nontasters' (NTs) and glucose NTs have been identified in two Drosophila species. Identification of human NTs would confirm separate mechanisms and could lead to identification of proteins in human sweet taste by molecular genetic techniques. To identify human NTs, we first obtained responses for sucrose, fructose and glucose from 20 subjects. They tasted seven concentrations of each sugar (2-128 mM), paired with water, and indicated the sweeter of each pair. Functions for recognition indices (RIs) (proportion of subjects recognizing the sugar as sweeter) were similar for sucrose and fructose and different for glucose; this result agrees with the previous studies and supports different mechanisms for the monosaccharides. At 128 mM, RIs for all three sugars were 1.0; this result is consistent with the monogeusia reported by Breslin et al. for concentrations higher than those tested here. Eleven rising-phase concentrations (10-35 mM fructose, 10-90 mM glucose) then were tested on 32 subjects. A statistically significant interaction indicated different regression slopes and supported different monosaccharide mechanisms. From these data, positive identification values (PIDs) (lowest concentration at which the sugar always was judged sweeter than the water) were determined for each subject. The fructose log(PID) and glucose log(PID) data were not well correlated; thus separate mechanisms were supported further. Next, NT traits were defined by log(PID)s &gt; or = 2 SD above the mean for one sugar, while the PID for the other remained within 1 SD of the population mean log(PID). Ninety-two subjects were screened to identify 12 glucose NTs and four fructose NTs. Two glucose NTs and three average subjects were tested in six additional sessions. The NTs showed an experience-induced change: there was a statistically significant reduction of glucose PIDs, but not of fructose PIDs. No change occurred in PIDs of the average subjects for either sugar.
Amphibian embryos have long been model organisms for studies of development because of their hardiness and large size, as well as the ease with which they can be experimentally manipulated. These particular advantages have allowed us recently to test the role of innervation in the development of vertebrate taste buds using embryos of an aquatic salamander, the axolotl. The predominant model of taste bud genesis has been one of neural induction, in which ingrowing sensory neurites induce taste bud differentiation in the epithelium that lines the mouth and pharynx. However, when we prevented embryonic sensory neurons from contacting the oropharyngeal epithelium by using transplantation or tissue culture techniques, we found that taste bud differentiation was independent of nerve contact. Additionally, using similar types of experimental manipulations, we have recently shown that taste bud differentiation is not a result of interactions of the oropharyngeal epithelium with craniofacial mesenchyme. Surprisingly, we found that although taste bud genesis occurs very late in embryonic development, it is an intrinsic feature of the presumptive oropharyngeal epithelium extremely early, in fact as early as the completion of gastrulation. These data have prompted us to propose a new model for the development of amphibian taste buds: (i) The presumptive oropharyngeal epithelium is specified by the time gastrulation is complete; (ii) Subsequently, a distributed population of taste bud progenitors is set up within this epithelium via local cell-cell interactions. These progenitor cells give rise to taste buds, which are distributed throughout the mouth and pharynx. How widely applicable this model might be for the genesis of taste buds in other vertebrates remains to be seen. However, since it is likely that the taste system of axolotls more closely resembles the ancestral state from which both the amphibian and mammalian taste systems have evolved, it is possible that many of the same developmental mechanisms that give rise to amphibian taste buds are also used to generate the receptor organs in mammals.
How taste buds develop and how they become innervated has been a matter of debate for a long time. Brain-derived neurotropic factor (BDNF) and neurotrophin-3 (NT3) mRNA expression patterns suggested a possible involvement in lingual gustatory and somatosensory innervation. Studies of null-mutated mice showed that BDNF-/- mice had few abnormal taste buds and were unable to discriminate between primary tastes. NT3-/- mice had a severe loss of lingual somatosensory innervation. These novel findings may have clinical implications in rare human conditions such as familial dysautonomia and/or in more common cases of problems with loss of taste and sensation in the mouth such as those seen after injury to the nerves, either by accident or following oral/facial surgery. Knowledge about which proteins that are required to stimulate nerve fibers to grow into mucous membranes of the oral cavity during development suggests that these same proteins might become helpful in stimulating regeneration of injured nerves in patients, perhaps helping them to regain lost taste and sensory functions. Here, the presence of glial cell-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) families of neurotrophic factors and receptors in the tongue is also discussed. Further, a model for the development and innervation of taste buds in mammals is proposed.
Several experimental models of epilepsy have used kainic acid in animals to induce seizures and neuropathological changes which mimic those observed in human temporal lobe epilepsy. These models differ in the location and manner in which kainic acid is applied. In the present study, we characterized the seizure activity and neuropathological changes that occur in awake rats after kainic acid (25 ng/250 nl) is injected into the entorhinal cortex of freely moving rats. In 91% of the animals, this induced generalized motor seizures. Moreover, all of the animals survived status epilepticus. Animals were perfused two weeks after the injection for neuropathological examination. Silver-impregnation revealed that kainic acid caused pyramidal cell damage which was most severe in the CA1 subfield and to a lesser degree in the CA3c area. A loss of NADPH diaphorase-containing neurons in the hilus and the CA1 area was also consistently seen and, in most cases, a population of somatostatin-immunoreactive neurons was diminished. Our findings show that a minute amount of kainic acid delivered directly to the entorhinal cortex on unanesthetized animals reliably produces generalized seizures as well as a consistent pattern of cell damage in the hippocampus. Therefore, this model may be suitable for investigating the mechanisms underlying temporal lobe epilepsy, and may prove useful in assessing different treatment strategies for preventing seizure-induced structural damage.
Injection of the neuroactive peptide galanin into the rat hippocampus and medial septal area impairs spatial memory and cholinergic system activity. Conversely, injection of glucose into these same brain regions enhances spatial memory and cholinergic system activity. Glucose and galanin may both modulate neuronal activity via opposing actions at ATP-sensitive K+ (K-ATP) channels. The experiments described in this report tested the ability of glucose and the direct K-ATP channel blocker glibenclamide to attenuate galanin-induced impairments in spontaneous alternation performance in the rat. Intra-septal injection of galanin (2.5 microgram), 30 min prior to plus-maze spontaneous alternation performance, significantly decreased alternation scores compared to those of rats receiving injections of vehicle solution. Co-injection of glucose (20 nmol) or the K-ATP channel blocker glibenclamide (5 nmol) attenuated the galanin-induced performance deficits. Glibenclamide produced an inverted-U dose-response curve in its interaction with galanin, with doses of 0.5 and 10 nmol having no effect on galanin-induced spontaneous alternation deficits. Drug treatments did not alter motor activity, as measured by overall number of arm entries during spontaneous alternation testing, relative to vehicle injected controls. These findings support the hypothesis that, in the septal region, galanin and glucose act via K-ATP channels to modulate neural function and behavior.
Orexin A and orexin B are a newly described family of orexigenic hypothalamic neuropeptides. The distribution of orexin immunoreactive fibers overlaps with the luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) neuronal system in the septo-preoptic area and the arcuate nucleus-median eminence region. To test the hypothesis that orexins may be involved in the regulation of pituitary LH secretion by influencing LHRH release, the effects of orexin A and orexin B on LH secretion were evaluated in ovariectomized (ovx) and ovarian steroid-treated ovx rats. Intracerebroventricular injection of orexin A or orexin B rapidly stimulated LH secretion in a dose- (0.3 and 3.0 nmol) and time-related fashion in estradiol benzoate- (EB) and progesterone (P)-pretreated ovx rats. Peak plasma LH concentration at 10 min were significantly higher in orexin A- than in orexin B-injected rats. On the other hand, both orexins (3 nmol) inhibited LH release in unprimed ovx rats. This ovarian steroid-dependent bimodal LH response is reminiscent of that of other orexigenic neuropeptides, such as neuropeptide Y. These findings show that orexins belong to a group of hypothalamic messengers that neurochemically bridge the regulatory networks that controls reproduction and energy balance.
The dopamine D2 receptor gene has been proposed as a genetic risk factor for schizophrenia (Arinami et al., 1994). However, a number of replications failed to confirm the initial report. The finding of a stronger association considering schizophrenics with the absence of negative symptoms (Arinami et al., 1996) suggested that the influence of DRD2 variants should be analyzed more at the level of symptoms rather than syndromes. One hundred and four inpatients affected by schizophrenia (n = 99) and delusional disorder (n = 5) (DSM IV) were assessed at admission by the Operational Criteria for Psychotic Illness (OPCRIT) and were typed for DRD2 variants using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) techniques. Subjects with the S311C variant presented a higher score on the 'Disorganization' factor (P = 0.012). Consideration of possible stratification effects such as sex and age of onset did not reveal any deviation from the whole sample. In conclusion, our preliminary report suggests that the DRD2 S311C variant may be a liability factor for disorganized symptoms among schizophrenics or for a subtype of schizophrenia characterized by highly disorganized symptomatology.
The neurosciences have advanced to the point that we can now treat consciousness as a scientific problem like any other. The problem is to explain how brain processes cause consciousness and how consciousness is realized in the brain. Progress is impeded by a number of philosophical mistakes, and the aim of this paper is to remove nine of those mistakes: (i) consciousness cannot be defined; (ii) consciousness is subjective but science is objective; (iii) brain processes cannot explain consciousness; (iv) the problem of 'qualia' should be set aside; (v) consciousness is epiphenomenal; (vi) consciousness has no evolutionary function; (vii) a causal account of consciousness is necessarily dualistic; (viii) science is reductionistic, so a scientific account of consciousness would show it reducible to something else; and (ix) an account of consciousness must be an information processing account.
Attempting to understand how the brain, as a whole, might be organized seems, for the first time, to be a serious topic of inquiry. One aspect of its neuronal organization that seems particularly central to global function is the rich thalamocortical interconnectivity, and most particularly the reciprocal nature of the thalamocortical neuronal loop function. Moreover, the interaction between the specific and non-specific thalamic loops suggests that rather than a gate into the brain, the thalamus represents a hub from which any site in the cortex can communicate with any other such site or sites. The goal of this paper is to explore the basic assumption that large-scale, temporal coincidence of specific and non-specific thalamic activity generates the functional states that characterize human cognition.

RA70, which is expressed during neuronal differentiation of P19 EC, is highly homologous to human src kinase-associated phosphoprotein (SKAP55). Here we isolated human full-length RA70 cDNA. Unlike SKAP55, which is specifically expressed in thymus and T cells, RA70 was expressed ubiquitously in various tissues including lung, skeletal muscle, and spleen, and in various cell lines including human monocytic leukemia (U937) cells, but RA70 was undetectable in thymus and T cell lymphoma (Jurkat) cells. RA70 as well as SKAP55 proved to be a protein with molecular weight 55 kDa associated with SH2 domain of Fyn. Interaction between RA70 and src family kinases, Fyn, Hck and Lyn, was detected during monocytes/macrophage-differentiation of U937 cells. Thus, like SKAP55, RA70 is an adaptor protein of the src family kinases. RA70 may play an essential role in the src signaling pathway in various cells.
Pre-clinical studies have suggested that one mechanism of antimigraine action of the 'triptan' 5-HT1B/1D receptor agonists may be through inhibition of central nociceptive transmission in the trigeminal dorsal horn. In anaesthetized rats, the 5-HT1B/1D receptor agonist, zolmitriptan (up to 3 mg kg(-1), i.v.), inhibited the action potential discharge of single trigeminal neurones to noxious electrical stimulation of the middle meningeal artery. In contrast, the selective 5-HT1B receptor agonist, CP-93,129 (3-(1,2,5,6-tetrahydropyrid-4-yl)pyrrolo[3,2-b]pyrid-5-one), and the 5-HT1A receptor selective agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)-tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) had no effect in this assay at up to 3 mg kg(-1), i.v.. Brain penetrant, triptan 5-HT1B/1D receptor agonists may therefore mediate their central trigeminal anti-nociceptive action in the rat via 5-HT1D, but not 5-HT1B or 5-HT1A, receptors.
Previous work has been carried out on the effects of adenosine on transmitter release and on the excitability of postsynaptic neurones, but little is known about the effects of adenosine on the coupling between the two. In this study, we examine the effects of specific adenosine receptor agonists and antagonists on the population excitatory postsynaptic potential (population EPSP) slope, the population spike amplitude, and the relationship between the two (E-S coupling) in the CA1 area of rat hippocampus. Activation of adenosine A1 receptors by adenosine or the selective agonist N6-cyclopentyladenosine resulted in a decrease of the population spike amplitude by a greater extent than could be accounted for by the decrease in population EPSP slope, resulting in a dissociation in the E-S relationship, reflected as a right-shift in the E-S curve. Activation of adenosine A2A receptors by the selective agonist 2-p-(2-carboxyethy)phenethylamino-5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadeno sine (CGS 21680), or blockade by antagonists ZM 241385 and CP 66713 had no effect on evoked responses. However, when both adenosine A1 and A2A receptors were activated at the same time, a significant attenuation of the inhibitory effects of N6-cyclopentyladenosine on population spike amplitude was observed, resulting in a left-shift in the E-S curve. Intracellular recording indicated that N6-cyclopentyladenosine raised the threshold for spike induction by pulses of depolarising current, even at a concentration which did not produce hyperpolarisation of the neurone. At 30 nM, CGS 21680 prevented this effect of N6-cyclopentyladenosine, and this apparent antagonism was prevented by the A2A receptor antagonist ZM 241385. The results show that adenosine A1 receptors change the coupling between presynaptic transmitter release and postsynaptic cell firing, and that this effect is attenuated by A2A receptor activation.
We raised polyclonal antibodies against a gene product responsible for late infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (CLN2). By Western blotting, all three antisera recognized the CLN2 protein at approximately 49 kDa in human brain homogenates. Immunohistochemistry using the antisera demonstrated the granular labelling in the cytoplasm of cerebral neurons and glial cells. The immunoreactivity on Western blots was absent from the brain of a patient with CLN2. Our results suggest the usefulness of these antibodies for the diagnosis of CLN2, which currently requires demonstration of characteristic ultrastructure by electron microscopy.
HOX genes specify cell fate in the anterior-posterior axis of animal embryos. Invertebrate chordates have one HOX cluster, but mammals have four, suggesting that cluster duplication facilitated the evolution of vertebrate body plans. This report shows that zebrafish have seven hox clusters. Phylogenetic analysis and genetic mapping suggest a chromosome doubling event, probably by whole genome duplication, after the divergence of ray-finned and lobe-finned fishes but before the teleost radiation. Thus, teleosts, the most species-rich group of vertebrates, appear to have more copies of these developmental regulatory genes than do mammals, despite less complexity in the anterior-posterior axis.
Many enzyme activities in Alzheimer's disease (AD) are changed. Some of these enzyme activities are related to certain neurotransmitter systems. Enzymes in the brain can also be sensitive to antemortem hypoxia. In the present study it was determined if enzyme activities that are altered in AD are also subject to alteration by antemortem hypoxia. As an indicator of antemortem hypoxia brain lactate concentration was used. Enzyme activities measured were those of prolyl endopeptidase (PE), aminopeptidase (AP), phosphatidylinositol (PI) kinase, phosphatidylinositol phosphate kinase, alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase (alpha-KGDH), choline acetyltransferase and beta-glucuronidase. All of these enzyme activities have been measured in AD patients before and several of them have been found to be decreased. In accordance with previous findings, PE, alpha-KGDH and ChAT activities were reduced in AD patients. PI kinase and beta-glucuronidase activities, however, were not reduced, contrary to previous findings. All enzyme activities, except that of beta-glucuronidase, correlated with brain lactate concentration, suggesting that antemortem hypoxia has a major influence on the activity of enzymes in the brain. PE, AP, alpha-KGDH and ChAT activities were still different between AD and control samples when these were matched for lactate concentration. The enzyme activities that were changed in AD were also significantly correlated with lactate concentration, an indicator of antemortem hypoxia, in brain specimens. This suggests that antemortem hypoxia and AD have some factor in common that may be responsible for changes in enzyme activities. Since both PE and alpha-KGDH are known to be sensitive to oxidative stress this factor could be oxidative stress.
Rapid advances in the clinical neurosciences in the last decade have led to considerable amplification of our ability to classify neurological diseases. For these classifications to be widely used, they must be compatible with the 'International Statistical Classification of Diseases and related health problems' (ICD) of the World Health Organization (WHO), which system is used throughout the world for classification of diseases and reasons of death. The 'Ninth' revision of the ICD (ICD-9), published in 1976, is currently in use in a number of Member States of the World Health Organization, including the United States. However, it is expected that by the end of this decade virtually all Member States will have introduced the 10th Revision of the ICD (ICD-10), published in 1992. An 'Application of ICD-10 to neurology' (ICD-10 NA) has been developed, with a specific coding system for virtually every neurological disease currently recognized. This article describes the structure and background of this work, that is offered as a definitive international classification of neurological disease to be used by clinical and research organizations, governmental and nongovernmental bodies, and for epidemiological and research purposes. It is concordant with the new and proposed classifications of subspecialty neurological organizations.
The visual environment is perceived as an organized whole of objects and their surroundings. In many visual cortical areas, however, neurons are typically activated when a stimulus is presented over a very limited portion of the visual field, the receptive field of that neuron. To bridge the gap between this piecewise neuronal analysis and our global visual percepts, it has been postulated that neurons representing elements of the same object fire in synchrony to represent the perceptual organization of a scene. Experiments with stimuli such as moving bars or gratings have provided evidence for this hypothesis. We have further tested this by presenting monkeys with various textured scenes consisting of a figure on a background, and recorded neuronal activity in the primary visual cortex (area V1). Our results show no systematic relationship between the synchrony of firing of pairs of neurons and the perceptual organization of the scene. Instead, pairs of recording sites representing elements of the same figure most commonly showed equal amounts of synchrony between them as did pairs of which one site represented the figure and the other the background. We conclude that synchrony in V1 does not reflect the binding of features that leads to texture segregation.
The present study investigated the responses of the vas deferens to sympathetic nerve stimulation and exogenous neurotransmitters taken from golden hamsters which had undergone 8 weeks of hibernation, 2 h of arousal from hibernation, those exposed to the cold but which failed to hibernate and age-matched control animals. Electrical field stimulation (EFS) of the vas deferens from each group produced frequency-dependent, tetrodotoxin-sensitive contractions. Contractions elicited by low frequencies of EFS in the hibernating group were significantly greater than in the other groups in the absence of any blocking agents. In the presence of the alpha1-adrenoceptor antagonist prazosin (3 microM) responses from all groups were reduced by approximately 40%, with the residual responses from the hibernating group being somewhat increased compared to the other groups. In the presence of the P2X receptor antagonist pyridoxalphosphate-6-azophenyl-2'4'-disulphonic acid (30 microM), there was no significant difference in responses from all 4 groups. Exogenously applied beta, gamma-methylene ATP (beta,gamma-meATP; 0.1-300 microM), a P2X receptor agonist, and noradrenaline (NA; 30 nM(-1) mM) both caused transient concentration-dependent contractions in all groups of animals. Contractions to beta,gamma-meATP at concentrations above 0.3 microM, and NA above 0.3 microM in the hibernating animals were statistically significantly greater than the cold- and age-matched control groups, although not significantly different from the aroused group. This study has shown postjunctional increases in responses to beta,gamma-meATP and NA as a result of hibernation, possible explanations for these increases are discussed.
Subanesthetic doses of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists such as ketamine and phencyclidine precipitate psychotic symptoms in schizophrenic patients. In addition, these drugs induce a constellation of behavioral effects in healthy individuals that resemble positive, negative, and cognitive symptoms of schizophrenia. Such findings have led to the hypothesis that decreases in function mediated by NMDA receptors may be a predisposing, or even causative, factor in schizophrenia. The present study examined the effects of the representative atypical (clozapine) and typical (haloperidol) antipsychotic drugs on ketamine- induced increases in [14C]-2-deoxyglucose (2-DG) uptake in the rat brain. As previously demonstrated, administration of subanesthetic doses of ketamine increased 2-DG uptake in specific brain regions, including medial prefrontal cortex, retrosplenial cortex, hippocampus, nucleus accumbens, basolateral amygdala, and anterior ventral thalamic nucleus. Pretreatment of rats with 5 or 10 mg/kg clozapine alone produced minimal or no change in 2-DG uptake, yet clozapine completely blocked ketamine-induced changes in 2-DG uptake in all brain regions studied. In striking contrast, a dose of haloperidol (0.5 mg/kg) that produces a substantial cataleptic response, potentiated, rather than blocked, ketamine-induced activation of 2-DG uptake. These results demonstrate, in a model with potential relevance to schizophrenia, a striking neurobiological difference between the actions of prototypical typical and atypical antipsychotic drugs. The dramatic blockade by clozapine of ketamine-induced brain metabolic activation suggests that antagonism of the consequences of reduced NMDA receptor function could contribute to the superior therapeutic effects of this atypical antipsychotic agent. The results also suggest that this model of ketamine-induced alterations in 2-DG uptake may be extremely useful for understanding the complex neural mechanisms of atypical antipsychotic drug action.
We studied the cytoarchitecture, neurochemical organization, and connections of the sagulum. The goal was to clarify its role in midbrain, lateral tegmental, and thalamic auditory processing. On cytoarchitectonic grounds, ventrolateral (parvocellular) and dorsomedial (magnocellular) subdivisions were recognized. The patterns of immunostaining for gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and glycine were distinct. Approximately 5-10% of the neurons were GABAergic, and more than one type was identified; GABAergic axon terminals were abundant in number and varied in form. Glycinergic neurons were much rarer, &lt; 1% of the population, and glycinergic axon terminals were correspondingly sparse. Wheat germ agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase was used for purposes of connectional mapping, and biotinylated dextran amines revealed the structure of corticosagular axons. All nine cortical areas injected project to the ipsilateral sagulum. Five (areas AI, AII, SF, EPD, and Te) had heavier projections than the others. Areas AI and AII projected throughout the rostrocaudal sagulum. Labeling from AI was moderate in density and concentrated in the central sagulum, whereas the input from AII was heavier and ended more laterally. Suprasylvian fringe input was light, especially caudally, and was chiefly in the central sagulum. The projection from the dorsal region of the posterior ectosylvian gyrus was comparatively stronger and was in the dorsolateral sagulum. Finally, the temporal cortex sent axons to the most lateral sagulum, spanning the dorsoventral extent, whereas insular cortex axons ended diffusely in the dorsolateral sagulum. Corticofugal axons ranged from fine boutons en passant to larger globular terminals. The sagulum may represent the earliest significant opportunity in the ascending auditory pathway for corticofugal modulation. The most extensive input arises from the polymodal association areas. The sagulum then projects divergently to the dorsal cortex of the inferior colliculus and the dorsal division of the medial geniculate body. The projection from the dorsal division of the auditory thalamus to nonprimary auditory cortex completes this circuit between the forebrain and the midbrain and represents a nexus in the ascending and descending auditory systems. Such circuits could play a critical role in auditory-motor adjustments to sound.
(1) This paper further examines the functional characteristics of recombinant human GABA(A) receptors containing the epsilon-subunit expressed in Xenopus oocytes. (2) Alpha1beta1epsilon receptors are not modulated by benzodiazepine ligands or by a number of hypothalamic hormones. (3) The intravenous anaesthetic agents pentobarbital, propofol and etomidate all potentiate sub-maximal GABA currents (EC20) to a similar degree in alpha1beta1epsilon and alpha1beta1gamma2s receptors. (4) Direct activation by pentobarbital produced a similar maximum response on alpha1beta1epsilon and alpha1beta1gamma2s, however, both the EC50 and slope were lower on alpha1beta1epsilon compared to alpha1beta1gamma2s. (5) These results describe a novel pharmacology for recombinant alpha1beta1epsilon receptors.
1. The intravenous anaesthetic etomidate augments GABA-gated chloride currents (indirect action) and, at higher concentrations, evokes chloride currents in the absence of GABA (direct action). 2. In order to identify amino acid residues essential for these actions, site directed mutagenesis was performed on the beta3 subunit. 3. Mutation of an asparagine to a serine residue at position 290 dramatically reduced both etomidate-induced chloride currents and its ability to enhance [3H]flunitrazepam binding in HEK293 cells expressing alpha1beta3gamma2 recombinant GABA(A) receptors. 4. In contrast, the indirect effect of etomidate was retained, though its potency was reduced. 5. These findings indicate that there are distinct requirements for these dual actions of etomidate at GABA(A) receptors.
To assess the extent to which interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) may contribute to the development and/or progression of neurodegenerative processes, we have examined the levels of IL-1beta in the brain of two types of neurological mutant mice, staggerer and Lurcher. Using a quantitative immunological method (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, ELISA), we measured IL-1beta in the cerebellum, hippocampus and cerebral cortex of mutant mice at baseline and after peripheral LPS treatment. Two types of IL-1beta expression abnormalities were found in the mutant cerebella: higher basal level in Lurcher and a response to peripheral administration of LPS in staggerer. The association of IL-1beta expression abnormalities with the only brain structure where a massive neurodegeneration occurs supports the role of proinflammatory cytokines in this process.
Neuronal activity rapidly induces expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the adult rat cortex. The rat BDNF gene has four differentially regulated promoters, each of which produce an mRNA containing a unique 5' exon (I-IV) and a common 3' exon (V) that encodes the mature BDNF protein. The present study used an exon-specific RT-PCR analysis to determine the time course of the induction from both seizures and whisker stimulation. Our data show that specific promoters are utilized at different stages of the activity-dependent induction of the BDNF gene. Furthermore, the data show a differential utilization of the four promoters following a specific stimulus.
Altered nerve growth factor (NGF) regulation has been linked to the pathophysiology of hypertension. Vascular smooth muscle cells from an inbred hypertensive, but normoactive rat strain (WKHT) secreted NGF at a greater rate than from a hyperactive, normotensive strain (WKHA). Exposure to phorbol ester increased NGF secretion rates from WKHT by 400-800% but not from WKHA vascular muscle. NGF secretion rates from both WKHT and WKHA vascular cells were elevated by co-application of platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) and transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) by 300-1000%. This response was partially attenuated by actinomycin D, an inhibitor of RNA transcription. These results suggest that regulation of NGF production does not occur solely at the level of transcription and post-transcriptional mechanisms operate. Analysis of NGF mRNA stability in the two strains following PDGF and TGF-beta1 treatment showed that NGF mRNA in WKHT had a half-life of 126.2+/-11.68 min while in WKHA vascular smooth muscle cells, the half-life was 47. 33+/-11.98 min. In addition to increased NGF mRNA stability in WKHT vascular muscle, these cells have an increased translational efficiency of NGF protein; elevated synthesis of NGF protein per unit NGF mRNA. Differences in signaling pathways may result in increased NGF mRNA stability and translational efficiency that may account for the elevated NGF protein in WKHT vascular smooth muscle cells.
The time course of changes across 21 days of continuous exposure to Delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol (Delta9-THC) was assessed for the level of cannabinoid receptor (CB1) mRNA expression in three different rat brain regions: cerebellum, hippocampus and corpus striatum. Expression levels of CB1 mRNA were determined using semi-quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) following a protocol which included a gene standard, 28S ribonucleic acid protein (rRNA), for normalization of levels of RNA in the three different brain regions. The levels of CB1 mRNA were assessed in four different rats at each of seven time points (6 h, and 1, 2, 3, 7, 14 and 21 days) during a 21-day Delta9-THC one dose day-1 (10 mg kg-1) treatment regimen. In the cerebellum and hippocampus, CB1 mRNA levels were increased above vehicle control animals at 7 and 14 days of treatment. In the striatum the levels of CB1 transcripts were severely reduced from days 2-14. CB1 message expression in all three brain areas returned to vehicle control levels by day 21 of Delta9-THC treatment, a time at which behavioral tolerance has been previously reported. An additional measure, receptor stimulated GTPgammaS binding, performed over the same time period revealed differential desensitization within the 3 brain areas as a function of chronic exposure to Delta9-THC. Hippocampus was the earliest to desensitize decreasing to 35% of control by treatment day 7, followed by a decrease in the cerebellum to that same level on day 14 of treatment. The striatum showed only half that degree of desensitization (65%) over the entire 21-day treatment period. Comparisons suggests that CB1 message may be regulated by different effector systems in each of the three areas during chronic Delta9-THC exposure.
The anti-p21ras Y13-259 single-chain Fv fragment (scFv) neutralizes the activity of p21-ras when intracellularly expressed in different systems. We have studied the mode of action of this inhibition in 3T3 K-ras fibroblasts and demonstrated that (i) this antibody fragment is highly aggregating when cytoplasmically expressed and (ii) the p21-ras antigen is sequestered in these aggregates in an antibody-dependent manner. This co-segregation leads to an efficient inhibition of DNA synthesis. These results suggest that an antigen can be diverted from its normal location inside the cells in an antibody mediated way, prospecting a new mode of action for intracellular antibodies in vivo.
Ca2+ influxes regulate multiple events in photoreceptor cells including phototransduction and synaptic transmission. An important Ca2+ sensor in Drosophila vision appears to be calmodulin since a reduction in levels of retinal calmodulin causes defects in adaptation and termination of the photoresponse. These functions of calmodulin appear to be mediated, at least in part, by four previously identified calmodulin-binding proteins: the TRP and TRPL ion channels, NINAC and INAD. To identify additional calmodulin-binding proteins that may function in phototransduction and/or synaptic transmission, we conducted a screen for retinal calmodulin-binding proteins. We found eight additional calmodulin-binding proteins that were expressed in the Drosophila retina. These included six targets that were related to proteins implicated in synaptic transmission. Among these six were a homolog of the diacylglycerol-binding protein, UNC13, and a protein, CRAG, related to Rab3 GTPase exchange proteins. Two other calmodulin-binding proteins included Pollux, a protein with similarity to a portion of a yeast Rab GTPase activating protein, and Calossin, an enormous protein of unknown function conserved throughout animal phylogeny. Thus, it appears that calmodulin functions as a Ca2+ sensor for a broad diversity of retinal proteins, some of which are implicated in synaptic transmission.
The erythrocyte membrane cytoskeletal protein 4.1 (4.1R) is a structural protein that confers stability and flexibility to erythrocytes via interactions with the cytoskeletal proteins spectrin and F-actin and with the band 3 and glycophorin C membrane proteins. Mutations in 4.1R can cause hereditary elliptocytosis, a disease characterized by a loss of the normal discoid morphology of erythrocytes, resulting in hemolytic anemia [1]. Different isoforms of the 4.1 protein have been identified in a wide variety of nonerythroid tissues by immunological methods [2-5]. The variation in molecular weight of these different 4.1 isoforms, which range from 30 to 210 kDa [6], has been attributed to complex alternative splicing of the 4.1R gene [7]. We recently identified two new 4.1 genes: one is generally expressed throughout the body (4. 1G) [8] and the other is expressed in central and peripheral neurons (4.1N) [9]. Here, we examined 4.1R expression by in situ hybridization analysis and found that 4.1R was selectively expressed in hematopoietic tissues and in specific neuronal populations. In the brain, high levels of 4.1R were discretely localized to granule cells in the cerebellum and dentate gyrus. We generated mice that lacked 4.1R expression; these mice had deficits in movement, coordination, balance and learning, in addition to the predicted hematological abnormalities. The neurobehavioral findings are consistent with the distribution of 4.1R in the brain, suggesting that 4.1R performs specific functions in the central nervous system.
Thalamic nuclei have long been regarded as passive relay stations for sensory information en route to higher level processing in the cerebral cortex. Recently, physiological and theoretical studies have reassessed the role of the thalamus and it has been proposed that thalamic nuclei may actively participate with cortical areas in processing specific information. In support of this idea, we now show that a subset of neurons in an extrageniculate visual nucleus, the lateral-posterior pulvinar complex, can signal the true direction of motion of a plaid pattern, indicating that thalamic cells can integrate different motion signals into a coherent moving percept. This is the first time that these computations have been found to occur outside the higher-order cortical areas. Our findings implicate extrageniculate cortico-thalamo-cortical loops in the dynamic processing of image motion, and, more generally, as basic computational modules involved in analysing specific features of complex visual scenes.




This review demonstrates that neurorehabilitation approaches, based on recent neuroscience findings, can enhance locomotor recovery after a spinal cord injury or stroke. Findings are presented from more than 20 clinical studies conducted by numerous research groups on the effect of locomotor training using either body weight support (BWS), functional electrical stimulation (FES), pharmacological approaches or a combination of them. Among the approaches, only BWS-assisted locomotor training has been demonstrated to have a greater effect than conventional or locomotor training alone. However, when study results were combined and weighted for the number of subjects, the results indicated that there is a gradient of effects from small changes with the immediate application of FES or BWS to larger changes when locomotor training is combined with FES or BWS or pharmacological approaches. The findings of these studies suggest that these neurorehabilitation approaches do play a role in the recovery of walking in subjects with spinal cord injury or stroke. Several factors contribute to the potential for recovery including the site, etiology, and chronicity of the injury, as well as the type, duration, and specificity of the intervention and whether interventions are combined. Furthermore, how these neurorehabilitation approaches may take advantage of the plasticity process following neurological lesion is also discussed.
The forebrain, brain stem, and spinal cord contribution to the control of locomotion is reviewed in this chapter. The lamprey is used as an experimental model because it allows a detailed cellular analysis of the neuronal network underlying locomotion. The focus is on cellular mechanisms that are important for the pattern generation, as well as different types of pre- and postsynaptic modulation. Neuropeptides target different cellular and synaptic mechanisms and cause long-lasting changes (&gt; 24 h) in network function.
In experiments investigating the role of the mitochondrial transition pore (MTP) in apoptosis induced by the Parkinsonism producing toxin N-methyl pyridinium ion (MPP+), we attempted to block possible MTP opening with cyclosporin A (CSA) alone or in combination with the phospholipase A2 (PLA2) inhibitor aristolochic acid (ARA). Paradoxically, CSA potentiated rather than inhibited MPP+ induced apoptosis. Aristolochic acid alone inhibited MPP+ induced apoptosis at 24 h but did not alter mitochondrial effects of MPP+, suggesting that ARA inhibits MPP+ induced apoptosis downstream of the initiation event. ARA may prove to be another useful tool for understanding apoptosis.
The characteristic rhythmical discharges of single postganglionic sympathetic neurones (PSNs) innervating the caudal ventral tail artery (CVA) of anaesthetised rats can still be recorded following the sectioning of afferents arising from the tail and hindquarters. Consequently, we suggest that such rhythmical discharges are neither a 'local sign' sympathetic response nor a sympathetic correlate of 'escape behaviour'.
To examine whether the migration of ambiguus nucleus (NA) neurons is affected in the reeler mouse, recombinant replication-deficient adenoviral vector carrying E. coli-galactosidase gene (lacZ) was injected into the abdominal esophagus of the reeler mouse and normal control at two months of age prior to 5 days of sacrifice of the animals. In the normal control, lacZ-positive neurons were found in the compact formation of the NA, whereas, in the reeler, they were scattered from the base of the fourth ventricle to the ventro-lateral margin of the medulla. The present study confirmed that NA neurons are malpositioned in the reeler mouse, suggesting that the migration of NA neurons is guided by the reelin-related protein (Reelin).
Peripheral tissue injury is known to induce changes in gene expression in spinal neurons and result in a prolonged alteration of neuronal excitability. The purpose of this study was to examine the effect of halothane on the dynorphin mRNA expression in spinal dorsal horn neurons after peripheral tissue injury by formalin injection and compare the effect to that of ketamine and nitrous oxide. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were anesthetized with 1.3% halothane, ketamine, or 67% nitrous oxide. Fifteen minutes after induction of anesthesia, rats received an intraplantar injection of 150 microliter 5% formalin into the unilateral hindpaw. General anesthesia was maintained for 8 h, and the expression of preprodynorphin (PPD) and preproenkephalin (PPE) mRNAs in the spinal cord (L4-5) was examined by in situ hybridization. The degree of edema of the inflamed foot was not different among the three anesthesia groups and the control (no anesthesia) group. The number of neurons expressing PPD mRNA dramatically increased in the superficial dorsal horn ipsilateral to the formalin injection in the control group compared to the contralateral side. The number of neurons labeled for PPD mRNA in the halothane group was significantly less than the control group. However, the number of PPD mRNA-expressing neurons in both the ketamine and nitrous oxide groups was significantly less than the halothane group. The expression of PPE mRNA was not influenced by these anesthetics. These data indicate that the suppressive effect of halothane anesthesia on the induction of PPD mRNA in dorsal horn neurons was smaller than those of ketamine and nitrous oxide, suggesting an important supplemental way to control the alteration of gene expression in spinal neurons for clinical settings.
Anterograde transport of the isolectin B4 from Griffonia simplicifolia I (B4) conjugated to horseradish peroxidase (HRP) was investigated in rat somatic and visceral primary sensory neurons at different spinal levels. Injection of B4-HRP into the L5 dorsal root ganglion (DRG) resulted in labelling in the sural nerve, but not in the gastrocnemius nerves. Free nerve endings and lanceolate-like nerve endings were labelled in the lateral hindpaw skin. Labelled fibres were also observed in the greater splanchnic nerve following B4-HRP injection into the T10-11 DRGs. Electron microscopic examination of the labelled nerves showed that B4-HRP labelled exclusively unmyelinated axons. In the spinal cord, labelling was observed in the superficial dorsal horn, and additionally, although much more sparse, in the medial and lateral collateral projections following injections into the T10-11 DRGs. The results suggest that B4-HRP should be a suitable anterograde tracer of unmyelinated cutaneous and splanchnic but not muscle primary afferent fibres.
Neurofilament proteins (NFPs), the cytoskeletal proteins that are essential for axogenesis and maintenance of neuron shape in the nervous system, were studied for their spatial distributions at nine postnatal days (PN 3, 5, 7, 10, 14, 17, 21, 28, and 120). Simultaneously non-phosphorylated (SMI-32; 150/200 kDa; Sternberger) and phosphorylated (SMI-31; 200 kDa) NFP immunoreactivity in the entire developing rat hippocampus was studied, quantified, and compared to that of mossy fiber (MF) axons and terminals using Neo-Timm's histochemistry, the most selective, sensitive, and reproducible technique. Differential developmental expressions were observed between the two NFP states. SMI-32 was initially expressed on PN 3 only in the perikarya of pyramidal neurons in CA3. As early as PN 5, SMI-31 appeared in the MF pathway, in parallel to the growth of MF axons. By contrast, SMI-32 did not appear at any age in the MF pathway, including the MF terminal zone of stratum lucidum. At PN 14, the distribution of both NFPs in the MF system (MFs and their target neurons, i.e., CA3/CA4 pyramidal neurons and hilar neurons) was nearly complete; however, the peak densities of SMI-32 and SMI-31 were later at PN 21 and statistically equal to the most adult level (PN 120). The temporal regulation and maximal levels of SMI-32 and SMI-31 expressions on MF target neurons (CA3: SMI-32) and in the MF terminal zone (stratum lucidum: SMI-31) were nearly parallel to the progressive and rapid PN growth of the MF axons and terminals occurring between PN 14 and PN 17, suggesting that the mechanisms for maturation of MF synaptogenesis occur after PN 17.
We have described the acoustic pathway from the ear to the diencephalon in a sound-producing fish (Pollimyrus) based on simultaneous neurophysiological recordings from single neurons and injections of biotin pathway tracers at the recording sites. Fundamental transformations of auditory information from highly phase-locked and entrained responses in primary eighth nerve afferents and first-order medullary neurons to more weakly phase-locked responses in the auditory midbrain were revealed by physiological recordings. Anatomical pathway tracing uncovered a bilateral array of both first- and second-order medullary nuclei and a perilemniscal nucleus. Interconnections within the medullary auditory areas were extensive. Medullary nuclei projected to the auditory midbrain by means of the lateral lemniscus. Midbrain auditory areas projected to both ipsilateral and contralateral optic tecta and to an array of three nuclei in the auditory thalamus. The significance of these findings to the elucidation of mechanisms for the analysis of communication sounds and spatial hearing in this vertebrate animal is discussed.
Flurothyl kindling initiates a time-dependent process that results in a facilitated propagation from the forebrain to the brainstem seizure system and in an increase in the complexity of behavioral seizure expression. We investigated the involvement of the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus (VMH) in mediating this facilitated propagation between these seizure systems. Bilateral ibotenic acid lesions of the VMH, but not the dorsomedial nucleus of the hypothalamus (DMH), resulted in a disruption in the propagation of seizure activity from the forebrain to the brainstem. Moreover, VMH lesioned mice were able to express brainstem seizures following minimal corneal electroconvulsive shock (mECS). Together, our results indicate that the VMH is a critical substrate involved in propagating seizure activity between the forebrain and brainstem, but is not involved in the expression systems necessary for forebrain or brainstem seizure manifestations.
The time course of the medial olivocochlear efferent system has been studied in humans, using the suppressive effect of a contralateral broad-band noise (CBBN) on 2f1-f2 distortion product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAE) amplitude. DPOAE were recorded with F2 at 1.5 kHz, with a temporal resolution of 2.6 s, in the presence and absence of a 40 dB SL continuous CBBN, whose duration ranged between 30 s and 20 min. The CBBN suppressive effect on DPOAE amplitude was greatest from the first 2.6 s, and was sustained for 20 min. At the CBBN offset, when the CBBN duration was &gt; or = 2 min, DPOAE amplitude continued to increase for &gt; 1 min, showing an efferent effect outlasting CBBN stimulation.
Previous studies have shown that hemodynamic response overlap severely limits the maximum presentation rate with event-related functional MRI (fMRI) using fixed intertrial experimental designs. Here we demonstrate that the use of randomized experimental designs can largely overcome this limitation, thereby allowing for event-related fMRI experiments with extremely rapid presentation rates. In the first experiment, fMRI time courses were simulated using a fixed intertrial interval design with intervals of 16, 3, and 1 s, and using a randomized design having the same mean intertrial intervals. We found that using fixed intertrial interval designs the transient information decreased with decreasing intertrial intervals, whereas using randomized designs the transient information increased with decreasing mean intertrial intervals. In a second experiment, fMRI data were collected from two subjects using a randomized paradigm with visual hemifield stimuli presented randomly every 500 ms. Robust event-related activation maps and hemodynamic response estimates were obtained. These results demonstrate the feasibility of performing event-related fMRI experiments with rapid, randomized paradigms identical to those used in electrophysiological and behavioral studies, thereby expanding the applicability of event-related fMRI to a whole new range of cognitive neurosciences questions and paradigms.
Perforated patch clamp recordings of neurons in slices of the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) were made in their subjective day and night phases. The spontaneous firing rate and input resistance were significantly higher during the subjective day as compared to the subjective night. In parallel, the membrane potential of neurons recorded at daytime was significantly more depolarized than at nighttime. The day-night differences in membrane potential and input resistance were maintained when spikes and GABA(A) receptor-mediated transmission were blocked by tetrodotoxin and bicuculline, suggesting a cell-autonomous regulation of the circadian modulation of membrane properties. In conclusion, these findings suggest that at least one hyperpolarizing ionic conductance would be open at night and closed during mid-day, when spontaneous firing reaches peak levels in the SCN.
Middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion causes atrophy in the ipsilateral substantia nigra reticulata (SNR). The effects of glutamate AMPA receptor antagonism on SNR atrophy, which is supposed to inhibit excitatory inputs from the subthalamic nucleus to the SNR, was investigated in rats with permanent MCA occlusions. Histological examination revealed marked atrophy two weeks after MCA occlusion in the saline-treated control group. However, constant i.v. infusion of YM872, a selective AMPA receptor antagonist, for 2 weeks significantly reduced SNR atrophy; neurological deficits also decreased. These results suggest that the AMPA receptor may be involved in the pathogenesis of SNR atrophy during the subacute phase of focal cerebral ischemia.
We studied the effect of endogenous adenosine on the release of [3H]acetylcholine ([3H]ACh) in cultures enriched (96.4+/-0.4%) in rat cholinergic amacrine-like neurons, as determined by labeling with an antibody against choline acetyltransferase. A small population of these cells also contained GABA. Using these cultures we observed that both [3H]ACh release, which was largely Ca2+-dependent, and 45Ca2+ influx, evoked by depolarization with 50 mM KCl, were increased when adenosine A1 receptor activation was prevented by removal of endogenous adenosine with adenosine deaminase, or by application of the A1 receptor antagonist DPCPX. Our results indicate that, in cultured rat amacrine-like neurons, the activation of A1 receptors decreases calcium influx and, thereby, inhibits [3H]ACh release.
The functional magnetic resonance (fMRI) technique can be robustly used to map functional activation of the visual pathway including the primary visual cortex (V1), the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN), and other nuclei of humans during visual perception stimulation. One of the major controversies in visual neuroscience is whether lower-order visual areas involve the visual imagery process. This issue was examined using fMRI at high magnetic field. It was demonstrated for the first time that the LGN was activated during visual imagery process in the human brain together with V1 and other activation. There was a tight coupling of the activation between V1 and the LGN during visual imagery.
Using in situ hybridization histochemistry we have studied the effect of glucose and fat deprivation on galanin-R1 receptor (GAL-R1-R) mRNA levels in the rat paraventricular (PVN) and supraoptic (SON) nuclei after single and repeated i.p. administration of a glucose antimetabolite 2-deoxy-D-glucose (DG), as well as of a fatty acid antimetabolite, sodium mercaptoacetate (MA), treatments known to increase food intake. Both DG and MA injections caused an increase in levels of GAL-R1 mRNA transcripts in the PVN and SON. These results indicate that glucose and fat deprivation increase the sensitivity of PVN and SON neurons to galanin, and that regulation of receptor levels may be an important mechanism in galaninergic signalling.
Space motion sickness (SMS) and spatial orientation and motion perception disturbances occur in 70-80% of astronauts. People select &quot;rest frames&quot; to create the subjective sense of spatial orientation. In microgravity, the astronaut's rest frame may be based on visual scene polarity cues and on the internal head and body z axis (vertical body axis). The data reported here address the following question: Can an astronaut's orientation rest frame be related and described by other variables including circular vection response latencies and space motion sickness? The astronaut's microgravity spatial orientation rest frames were determined from inflight and postflight verbal reports. Circular vection responses were elicited by rotating a virtual room continuously at 35 degrees/s in pitch, roll and yaw with respect to the astronaut. Latency to the onset of vection was recorded from the time the crew member opened their eyes to the onset of vection. The astronauts who used visual cues exhibited significantly shorter vection latencies than those who used internal z axis cues. A negative binomial regression model was used to represent the observed total SMS symptom scores for each subject for each flight day. Orientation reference type had a significant effect, resulting in an estimated three-fold increase in the expected motion sickness score on flight day 1 for astronauts who used visual cues. The results demonstrate meaningful classification of astronauts' rest frames and their relationships to sensitivity to circular vection and SMS. Thus, it may be possible to use vection latencies to predict SMS severity and duration.
Adaptation to research paradigms such as rotating rooms and optical alteration of visual feedback during movement results in development of perceptual-motor programs that provide the reflexive assistance that is necessary to skilled control of movement and balance. The discomfort and stomach awareness that occur during the adaptation process has been attributed to conflicting sensory information about the state of motion. Vestibular signals depend on the kinematics of head movements irrespective of the presence or absence of signals from other senses. We propose that sensory conflict when vestibular signals are at least one component of the conflict are innately disturbing and unpleasant. This innate reaction is part of a continuum that operates early in life to prevent development of inefficient perceptual-motor programs. This reaction operates irrespective of and in addition to reward and punishment from parental guidance or goal attainment to yield efficient control of whole body movement in the operating environment of the individual. The same mechanism is involved in adapting the spatial orientation system to strange environments. This conceptual model &quot;explains&quot; why motion sickness is associated with adaptation to novel environments and is in general consistent with motion sickness literature.
In zebrafish the cartilages of the pharynx develop during late embryogenesis and grow extensively in the larva before eventually being replaced by bone. Here we examine chondrocyte arrangements, shapes, numbers, and divisions in the young hyoid cartilages. We observe two distinct developmental phases, morphogenesis and growth. The first phase generates stereotypically oriented chondrocyte stacks that might form by intercalations among cells within the precartilage condensations. In mutants that have deformed cartilages the orientation of the stacks is changed, and we propose that their correct formation underlies the correct initial shaping of the organ. The following period of rapid, nearly isometric cartilage growth occurs by divisions of chondrocytes that are largely located near the joints, and appears to be under quite separate regulation.
The Drosophila CNS develops from three columns of neuroectodermal cells along the dorsoventral (DV) axis: ventral, intermediate, and dorsal. In this and the accompanying paper, we investigate the role of two homeobox genes, vnd and ind, in establishing ventral and intermediate cell fates within the Drosophila CNS. During early neurogenesis, Vnd protein is restricted to ventral column neuroectoderm and neuroblasts; later it is detected in a complex pattern of neurons. We use molecular markers that distinguish ventral, intermediate, and dorsal column neuroectoderm and neuroblasts, and a cell lineage marker for selected neuroblasts, to show that loss of vnd transforms ventral into intermediate column identity and that specific ventral neuroblasts fail to form. Conversely, ectopic vnd produces an intermediate to ventral column transformation. Thus, vnd is necessary and sufficient to induce ventral fates and repress intermediate fates within the Drosophila CNS. Vertebrate homologs of vnd (Nkx2.1 and 2.2) are similarly expressed in the ventral CNS, raising the possibility that DV patterning within the CNS is evolutionarily conserved.
Endogenous oligodendrocyte lineage cells spontaneously remyelinate focal areas of demyelination induced by murine hepatitis virus A59 infection of C57Bl/6 mice. We used this model to examine the potential for platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) to have a role in repopulating demyelinated lesions, and in doing so we also further characterized the in vivo responses of oligodendrocyte lineage cells following demyelination. Very early in the progress of remyelination, we administered a 4-h in vivo pulse of bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) and subsequently performed in situ hybridization for PDGF-alpha receptor (PDGFalphaR), an established marker for oligodendrocyte progenitors in vivo, or for proteolipid protein (PLP), to identify oligodendrocytes. Sections of lesioned spinal cords had a 14.5-fold increase in the number of BrdU-labeled oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (PDGFalphaR+), while BrdU-labeled oligodendrocytes (PLP+) were extremely rare. Immunocytochemistry of similar sections demonstrated that immunoreactivity for both PDGFalphaR and NG2, another marker of oligodendrocyte progenitors, was locally increased in areas of white-matter lesions. High-resolution immunofluorescence imaging was used to detect oligodendrocyte progenitor cells expressing receptors for both PDGF and fibroblast growth factor. In addition, expression of PDGF-A mRNA transcripts was increased in sections of lesioned spinal cords and reactive astrocytes in lesions exhibited immunoreactivity for PDGF ligand. Our findings indicate that during the initial stages of remyelination, oligodendrocyte progenitors proliferate locally, and that this response may potentially involve PDGF.
Laminin is a major component of all basement membranes. However, its composition varies with location because there are numerous forms of each of the three chains (alpha, beta, and gamma) that together comprise this heterotrimeric molecule. In the neuromuscular system, motor neurons and Schwann cells encounter unique trimers of laminin at different sites. The question thus arises as to whether these local differences in laminin composition act to direct the behavior of these two classes of cells. To address this question, we compared the responses of cultured rat motor neurons and Schwann cells to three forms of rodent laminin purified in our laboratory: Laminin-1 (Lmn-1; alpha1beta1gamma1); Laminin-11 (Lmn-11), a synapse-specific isoform consisting of alpha5beta2gamma1 chains; and a third preparation, a mixture of three kinds of laminin (Lmn-2/4/8), that is enriched for the alpha2, alpha4, beta1, beta2, and gamma1 subunits. Schwann cells attached best to a substrate of Lmn-2/4/8 and showed the weakest adhesion on Lmn-11. Interestingly, no such difference was seen with motor neurons; all three substrates promoted neuronal adhesion, survival, and neurite initiation equally well. With longer time in culture, however, these embryonic motor neurons extended extremely long processes on Lmn-1 and on Lmn-2/4/8, while those on Lmn-11 bore shorter neurites with unusually large, flattened growth cones. These results demonstrate that the behavior of Schwann cells and motor neurons can be regulated directly by the local laminin composition. The precise geometric relationship of these cells at the neuromuscular junction may therefore reflect the unique composition of laminin at this synapse.
Mice, rats, and humans have two types of estrogen receptors, estrogen receptor-alpha (ERalpha) and estrogen receptor-beta (ERbeta). Estrogen receptor-alpha gene-disrupted (ERalpha-disrupted) mice bear two nonfunctional copies of the ERalpha gene. This mutation blocks the synthesis of full-length ERalpha, renders the animals infertile, and inhibits the induction of female sexual behaviors by estradiol and progesterone. It is likely that many of the processes contributing to the regulation of sexual receptivity by estradiol and progesterone are compromised in ERalpha-disrupted mice. However, given the importance of progesterone in the regulation of sexual receptivity and given the importance of progestin receptors (PRs) in mediating the responses of females to progesterone, we investigated the effects of ERalpha disruption on the induction of PRs by estradiol in the forebrain. We hypothesized that estradiol would induce PRs in wild-type mice but not in ERalpha-disrupted mice. Ovariectomized wild-type and ERalpha-disrupted mice were implanted with either estradiol-filled capsules or empty capsules for 5 d, after which their brains were processed for the immunocytochemical detection of PR. Estradiol increased the number of PR-immunoreactive cells in both wild-type and ERalpha-disrupted mice. The residual responsiveness of ERalpha-disrupted mice to estradiol could be accounted for by an ERbeta-dependent mechanism or another as yet unidentified estrogen receptor; however, because ERalpha-immunoreactivity and PCR product representing the 3' end of ERalpha mRNA were found in at least one PR-containing region of the ERalpha-disrupted mice, an ERalpha splice variant may also mediate the induction of PR-immunoreactivity in ERalpha-disrupted mice.
The effect of the secretory form of amyloid precursor protein (sAPP) on synaptic transmission was examined by using developing neuromuscular synapses in Xenopus cell cultures. The frequency of spontaneous postsynaptic currents (SSCs) was reduced by the addition of sAPP, whereas the amplitude of impulse-evoked postsynaptic currents (ESCs) was increased by sAPP. These opposing effects on spontaneous versus evoked release were separated by using the specific domain of APP. The C-terminal fragment of sAPP (CAPP) only reduced SSC frequency and did not affect ESCs. By contrast, the N-terminal fragment of sAPP (NAPP) did not affect SSC frequency but did increase ESC amplitude. The reduction of SSC frequency by sAPP appears to be mediated by activation of potassium channels through a cGMP-dependent pathway, whereas the increase of ESC amplitude is mediated by a different pathway involving activation of protein kinase(s). These results suggest the potential role of sAPP as a modulator of synaptic activity by two specific domains.
Early cellular development was studied in the neocortex of the tish rat. This neurological mutant is seizure-prone and displays cortical heterotopia similar to those observed in certain epileptic patients. The present study demonstrates that a single cortical preplate is formed in a typical superficial position of the developing tish neocortex. In contrast, two cortical plates are formed: one in a normotopic position and a second in a heterotopic position in the intermediate zone. As the normotopic cortical plate is formed, it characteristically separates the subplate cells from the superficial Cajal-Retzius cells. In contrast, the heterotopic cortical plate is not intercalated between the preplate cells because of its deeper position in the developing cortex. Cellular proliferation occurs in two zones of the developing tish cortex. One proliferative zone is located in a typical position in the ventricular/subventricular zone. A second proliferative zone is located in a heterotopic position in the superficial intermediate zone, i.e., between the two cortical plates. This misplaced proliferative zone may contribute cells to both the normotopic and heterotopic cortical plates. Taken together, these findings indicate that misplaced cortical plate cells, but not preplate cells, comprise the heterotopia of the tish cortex. Heterotopic neurogenesis is an early developmental event that is initiated before the migration of most cortical plate cells. It is concluded that misplaced cellular proliferation, in addition to disturbed neuronal migration, can play a key role in the formation of large cortical heterotopia.
The neuropeptide calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) is expressed by one-third of adult rat lumbar dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons, many of which mediate pain sensation or cause vasodilation. The factors that regulate the developmental expression of CGRP are poorly understood. Embryonic DRG neurons initially lack CGRP. When these neurons were stimulated in culture by serum or persistent 50 mM KCl application, the same percentage of CGRP-immunoreactive (CGRP-IR) neurons developed in vitro as was seen in the adult DRG in vivo. The addition of the L-type calcium channel blockers, 5 microM nifedipine or 10 microM verapamil, dramatically decreased the proportion of CGRP-IR neurons that developed, although the N-type calcium channel blocker, 2.5 microM omega-conotoxin, was less effective. By contrast, the sodium channel blocker 1 microM tetrodotoxin had no effect on CGRP expression after depolarization. Fura-2 ratiometric imaging demonstrated that mean intracellular free calcium levels increased from 70 to 135 nM with chronic depolarization, and the addition of nifedipine inhibited that increase. Only a subpopulation of neurons had elevated calcium concentrations during chronic depolarization, and they were correlated with CGRP expression. Key signal transduction pathways were tested pharmacologically for their role in CGRP expression after depolarization; the addition of the CaM kinase inhibitor KN-62 reduced the proportion of CGRP-IR neurons to basal levels. By contrast, protein kinase A and protein kinase C were not implicated in the depolarization-induced CGRP increases. These data suggest that depolarization and the subsequent Ca2+-based signal transduction mechanisms play important roles in the de novo expression of CGRP by specific embryonic DRG neurons.
We describe a novel synaptic vesicle protein called SVOP that is distantly related to the synaptic vesicle proteins SV2A, SV2B, and SV2C (20-22% sequence identity). Both SVOP and SV2 contain 12 transmembrane regions. However, SV2 is highly glycosylated, whereas SVOP is not. Databank searches revealed that closely related homologs of SVOP are present in Caenorhabditis elegans and Drosophila (48% sequence identity), suggesting that SVOP is evolutionarily ancient. In contrast, no invertebrate orthologs of SV2 were detected. The sequences of SVOP and SV2 exhibit homology with transport proteins, in particular with mammalian organic cation and anion transporters. SVOP and SV2 are more distantly related to eukaryotic and bacterial phosphate, sugar, and organic acid transporters. SVOP is expressed at detectable levels only in brain and endocrine cells where it is primarily localized to synaptic vesicles and microvesicles. SVOP is present in all brain regions, with particularly high levels in large pyramidal neurons of the cerebral cortex. Immunocytochemical staining of adjacent rat brain sections for SVOP and SV2 demonstrated that SVOP and SV2 are probably coexpressed in most neurons. Although the functions of SV2 and SVOP remain obscure, the evolutionary conservation of SVOP, its hydrophobic nature, and its homology to transporters strongly support a role in the uptake of a novel, as yet unidentified component of synaptic vesicles. Thus synaptic vesicles contain two classes of abundant proteins with 12 transmembrane regions that are related to transporters, nonglycosylated SVOP and highly glycosylated SV2, suggesting that the transport functions of synaptic vesicles may be more complex than currently envisioned.
Perfusion of rat brain slices with low millimole CsCl elicits slow oscillations of &lt;/=1 Hz in hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons. These oscillations are GABAA receptor-mediated hyperpolarizations that permit a coherent fire-pause pattern in a population of CA1 neurons. They can persist without the activation of ionotropic glutamate receptors but require adenosine-dependent inhibition of glutamate transmission. In response to external Cs+, multiple interneurons in the CA1 region display rhythmic discharges that correlate with the slow oscillations in CA1 pyramidal neurons. The interneuronal discharges arise spontaneously from the resting potential, and their rhythmicity is regulated by periodic, GABAA receptor-mediated hyperpolarizations. In addition, interneurons show periodic partial spikes and neurobiotin coupling, and applications of known gap junctional uncouplers interrupt the Cs+-induced slow rhythm in both CA1 pyramidal neurons and interneurons. We propose that these slow oscillations originate from a GABAergic interneuronal network that interacts through reciprocal inhibition and possibly gap junctional connection.
Axon sprouting in dentate granule cells is an important model of structural plasticity in the hippocampus. Although the process can be triggered by deafferentation, intense activation of glutamate receptors, and other convulsant stimuli, the specific molecular steps required to initiate and sustain mossy fiber (MF) reorganization are unknown. The cellular immediate early genes (IEGs) c-fos, c-jun, and zif/268 are major candidates for the initial steps of this plasticity, because they encode transcription factors that may trigger cascades of activity-dependent neuronal gene expression and are strongly induced in all experimental models of MF sprouting. The mutant mouse stargazer offers an important opportunity to test the specific role of IEGs, because it displays generalized nonconvulsive epilepsy and intense MF sprouting in the absence of regional cell injury. Here we report that stargazer mice show no detectable elevations in c-Fos, c-Jun, or Zif/268 immediate early gene proteins (IEGPs) before or during MF growth. Experimental results in stargazer, including (1) a strong IEGP response to kainate-induced convulsive seizures, (2) no IEGP response after prolongation of spike-wave synchronization, (3) no IEGP increase at the developmental onset of seizures or after prolonged seizure suppression, and (4) unaltered levels of the intracellular Ca2+-buffering proteins calbindin-D28k or parvalbumin, exclude the possibility that absence of an IEGP response in stargazer is either gene-linked or suppressed by known refractory mechanisms. These data demonstrate that increased levels of these IEGPs are not an obligatory step in MF-reactive sprouting and differentiate the early downstream molecular cascades of two major seizure types.
Understanding of islet embryogenesis may prove to be key in the design of future therapies for diabetes directed at re-initiating islet growth, with the goal to replace and/or replenish the impaired beta-cell mass in the disease. In this context, studies of islet neurohormonal peptides, known to play a role in the local regulation of islet function, and their expression during islet embryogenesis are important. Here we review our studies on the embryonic islet expression of islet amyloid polypeptide (IAPP) and the PP-fold peptides pancreatic polypeptide (PP), peptide YY (PYY) and neuropeptide Y (NPY). IAPP, which is constitutively expressed in beta- and delta-cells in the adult rat, was found to occur in the assumed pluripotent islet progenitor cell, together with PYY, glucagon, and to a lesser extent with insulin. As development proceeds, the insulin/IAPP phenotype is segregated from that of PYY/glucagon; with the formation of islet-like structures, insulin/IAPP-expressing cells primarily occupy their central portions, while PYY/glucagon-expressing cells are found in their periphery. At the time of formation of islet-like structures, expression of NPY is induced in the insulin/IAPP-containing cells. Whereas NPY-expression ceases at birth, PYY is constitutively expressed in non-beta-cells in the mature rat. Expression of PP is induced just prior to birth in a separate population of islet cells, occasionally co-expressed with PYY. Although a clear role for these peptides during embryogenesis has not been identified, they conceivably could play a role in the control of insulin secretion, islet growth and islet blood flow.
We introduce a constructive, incremental learning system for regression problems that models data by means of spatially localized linear models. In contrast to other approaches, the size and shape of the receptive field of each locally linear model, as well as the parameters of the locally linear model itself, are learned independently, that is, without the need for competition or any other kind of communication. Independent learning is accomplished by incrementally minimizing a weighted local cross-validation error. As a result, we obtain a learning system that can allocate resources as needed while dealing with the bias-variance dilemma in a principled way. The spatial localization of the linear models increases robustness toward negative interference. Our learning system can be interpreted as a nonparametric adaptive bandwidth smoother, as a mixture of experts where the experts are trained in isolation, and as a learning system that profits from combining independent expert knowledge on the same problem. This article illustrates the potential learning capabilities of purely local learning and offers an interesting and powerful approach to learning with receptive fields.
Following treatment with interleukin-10 (IL-10), basal corticotrophin releasing factor (CRF) levels from rat hypothalamic median eminence (ME) were found to be increased. Our data show: (1) the specificity of stimulation of CRF through the use of recombinant IL-10 and its blockage by monoclonal anti-IL-10 antibody; (2) the requirement of NO in this process through the use of N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME), a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor; (3) the blockage of IL-10 stimulated NO production by anti-IL-10; and, (4) the presence of IL-10 transcripts in hypothalamic poly A+ mRNA. These results provide the first evidence of IL-10 acting in the ME to influence CRF levels and further support our earlier findings of a potential for IL-10 in the hypothalamic-pituitary axis.
Several growth factors have been implicated in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). We considered whether the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is involved in the vascular pathology associated with most cases of AD. We observed enhanced VEGF immunoreactivity in clusters of reactive astrocytes in the neocortex of subjects with AD compared to elderly controls. VEGF reactivity was also noted in walls of many large intraparenchymal vessels and diffuse perivascular deposits. In addition, we established that astrocytic and perivascular VEGF reactivity was enhanced in cerebral cortex of rats subjected to cerebral ischemia and to chronic hypoxia; experimental conditions known to be associated with astrogliosis and angiogenesis. We suggest the increased VEGF reactivity, also observed in infarcted human brain tissue, implicates compensatory mechanisms to counter insufficient vascularity or reduced perfusion (oligemia) apparent in AD.
Here we compared the features of apoptosis induced by DNA-damaging agent, etoposide, and by withdrawal of the growth factors in NB 2a neuroblastoma cells. We showed that serum deprivation and etoposide induced a distinct pattern of regulation of c-Fos, c-Jun and p53 protein levels, as well as the differential changes in DNA-binding activity of AP-1 and NF-kappaB transcription factors. The late phase of apoptesis induced by serum withdrawal was associated with disintegration of nuclear DNA both into high molecular weight (HMW) and oligonucleosomal DNA fragments, whereas etoposide induced the formation of HMW-DNA fragments without internucleosomal DNA cleavage. Incubation of etoposide-treated cells without serum resulted in an additive effect on the pattern of DNA fragmentation. Differences in DNA fragmentation profiles induced by serum withdrawal and etoposide in NB 2a cells were reproducible in nonproliferating cerebellar granule cells and also in a cell free system assay after treatment of isolated normal nuclei with cytosolic extracts prepared from serum-deprived or etoposide-treated cells. Both HMW and oligonucleosomal DNA fragmentation in serum-deprived cells was inhibited by aurintricarboxylic acid and was completely abrogated by cycloheximide. In contrast, DNA fragmentation in etoposide-treated cells was insensitive to the inhibitory effect of aurintricarboxylic acid, and was not prevented by cycloheximide. Our results indicate that in NB 2a neuroblastoma cells etoposide and serum withdrawal induce a distinct mode of apoptosis which is associated with a distinct pattern of regulation of immediately early response genes in the early phase, and with recruitment of different mechanisms for DNA disintegration in the late phase of apoptosis.
To determine whether the baroreflex control of sympathetic nerve activity is attenuated in the elderly, muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) from the tibial nerve was monitored using microneurography, and heart rate and blood pressure were recorded during the depressor (phase II) or pressor (phase IV) period to Valsalva's maneuver in 10 younger subjects and 7 aged subjects. The baroreflex slope for heart rate showed attenuation in the aged subjects during the pressor phase but not during the depressor phase, the baroreflex slope for MSNA was also attenuated in the aged subjects during the pressor and tended to be attenuated during the depressor phases. These data suggest impaired baroreflex function for both heart rate and sympathetic nerve activity in the elderly.
The haemodynamic and catecholamine responses to supine exercise, and the effect on standing blood pressure (BP), were studied in three groups with peripheral autonomic dysfunction; insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM), familial amyloid polyneuropathy (FAP) and pure autonomic failure (PAF). Healthy normal subjects were studied as controls. With exercise, BP increased in controls, was unchanged in IDDM and FAP, and fell in PAF. Heart rate (HR) increased more in controls than IDDM, FAP or PAF. Cardiac index (CI) increased less in IDDM than controls, FAP or PAF. Systemic vascular resistance (SVR) fell similarly in controls and IDDM, with a greater fall in FAP and PAF. Plasma noradrenaline increased in controls and IDDM only; plasma adrenaline did not change and plasma dopamine was undetectable in all groups. On standing, BP was unchanged in controls; BP fell pre- and post-exercise in IDDM, FAP and PAF, with a significantly greater fall post-exercise in FAP and PAF. In conclusion, the haemodynamic responses to supine exercise and to standing after exercise differed in the three groups with peripheral autonomic dysfunction. These differences, and also the similarities, between different forms of peripheral autonomic dysfunction, may be of relevance to the clinical assessment and therapy of these patients.
The effects of sympathetic nerve stimulation on different cutaneous arteries were examined in arteries isolated from guinea-pig ears, by measuring membrane potential changes in smooth muscle cells in response to electrical field stimulation. Resting membrane potential (RMP) was similar in proximal (main ear artery) and distal (3rd or 4th branch order) cutaneous arteries (mean -71 mV). Single stimuli evoked excitatory junction potentials (EJPs) in all arteries. The EJPs in proximal arteries were twice the amplitude, and the time constant of EJP decay was almost half the value, compared with distal cutaneous arteries. EJP amplitude was reduced by &gt; 90% by suramin (30 microM) or alpha,beta,methylene-ATP (alpha,beta,m-ATP)(1 microM) in all proximal, and most distal arteries. Residual responses in distal arteries were resistant to tetrodotoxin. The N-type calcium channel blocker, omega-conotoxin GVIA (30 nM), reduced EJP amplitude by 70-100% in both proximal and distal arteries. Successive EJPs evoked by trains of stimuli at 1 to 5 Hz were depressed in amplitude in proximal arteries, but showed facilitation in distal arteries. EJP depression in proximal arteries was reversed to facilitation by the alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonist, yohimbine (30 nM). Trains of stimuli delivered at 10-20 Hz produced summation of EJPs and active membrane responses in 30% of proximal arteries. Active responses were never detected in distal arteries. Slow depolarizations following the EJPs were detected in most arteries after trains of stimuli, and were abolished by prazosin (0.3 microM) or omega-conotoxin GVIA (30 nM). The density of the perivascular plexus of axons innervating proximal arteries, demonstrated with catecholamine fluorescence histochemistry, was twice that in distal cutaneous arteries. These regional differences in sympathetic neurotransmission suggest that cutaneous vasoconstriction in response to thermoregulatory stimuli, which occurs predominantly in distal cutaneous segments, is likely to be qualitatively different from cutaneous vasoconstriction of proximal arteries in response to other physiological stimuli.
For the first time, the GluR-1 subtype of AMPA receptor was identified in the sympathetic nervous system of neonatal swine, an animal model of human development and heart disease. The rationale was to seek evidence of a role ascribed to glutamate in cardiorespiratory regulation in the laboratory rat. The receptor was demonstrated with the avidin-biotin immunoperoxidase technique by using an affinity-purified polyclonal antibody judged to be specific to Glu-R1 in several species. Glu-R1 immunoreactivity was regionally distributed in the thoracic spinal gray, and present intracellularly in neurons and within the surrounding neuropil. Sympathetic preganglionic neurons in the intermediolateral cell column of upper and lower thoracic spinal segments were intensely labeled and surrounded by labeled neuropil. High concentrations of Glu-R1 distinguished laminae II: substantia gelatinosa and the outer region of lamina III. Laminae I and V of the dorsal horn but not IV contained immunolabeled neurons. Arrays of moderately immunoreactive perikarya extended from an intermediate zone of laminae VII to the central gray. Glia and perivascular processes were not labeled, confirming previous observations [Tachibana, M., Wenthold, R.J., Morioka, H., Petralia, R.S., 1994. Light and electron microscopic immunocytochemical localization of AMPA-selective glutamate receptors in the rat spinal cord. J. Comp. Neurol. 344, 431-454]. Neuronal staining patterns corroborated evidence in rats indicating a postsynaptic localization of Glu-R1 associated with plasma membranes and cytoplasmic organelles [Martin, L.J., Blackstone, C.D., Levey, A.I., Huganir, R.L., Price, D.L., 1993. AMPA glutamate receptor subunits are differentially distributed in rat brain. Neuroscience 53, 327-358.; Rubio, M.E., Wenthold, R.J., 1997. Glutamate receptors are selectively targeted to postsynaptic sites in neurons. Neuron 18, 939-950]. Our data predict a role for L-glutamate in postnatal development of cardiorespiratory reflexes in swine.
Calcium permeability of L-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate receptors (AMPARs) in excitatory neurons of the mammalian brain is prevented by coassembly of the GluR-B subunit, which carries an arginine (R) residue at a critical site of the channel pore. The codon for this arginine is created by site-selective adenosine deamination of an exonic glutamine (Q) codon at the pre-mRNA level. Thus, central neurons can potentially control the calcium permeability of AMPARs by the level of GluR-B gene expression as well as by the extent of Q/R-site editing, which in postnatal brain, positions the R codon into &gt;99% of GluR-B mRNA. To study whether the small amount of unedited GluR-B is of functional relevance, we have generated mice carrying GluR-B alleles with an exonic arginine codon. We report that these mutants manifest no obvious deficiencies, indicating that AMPAR-mediated calcium influx into central neurons can be solely regulated by the levels of Q/R site-edited GluR-B relative to other AMPAR subunits. Notably, a targeted GluR-B gene mutant with 30% reduced GluR-B levels had 2-fold higher AMPAR-mediated calcium permeability in hippocampal pyramidal cells with no sign of cytotoxicity. This constitutes proof in vivo that elevated calcium influx through AMPARs need not generate pathophysiological consequences.
mSin3 proteins have an important role in transcriptional repression mediated by histone deacetylation. Our purpose was to find out whether apoptosis affects the expression of mSin3 proteins in neuroblastoma 2a cells. We observed that neuronal apoptosis, induced by serum withdrawal or by treatment with etoposide, okadaic acid or trichostatin A, induced a prominent increase in mSin3A protein expression but did not affect the level of mSin3B protein. Trichostatin A, an inhibitor of histone deacetylases, induced the most prominent upregulation of mSin3A protein. Metabolic labeling and immunoprecipitation of mSin3A showed a marked increase in the synthesis of mSin3A protein in agreement with the immunoblotting results. Interestingly, the expression of mSin3A preceded the activation of caspase-3 and the execution phase of neuronal apoptosis. These results suggest that the expression of mSin3A proteins may provide a regulation mechanism to enhance transcriptional repression or silencing of genes during neuronal apoptosis, as well as during degenerative diseases.
The aim of this study was to identify changes in gene expression during neuronal apoptosis using the differential display (DD) technique. Potassium deprivation was used to induce neuronal apoptosis in cultured rat cerebellar granule cells. DD analysis of about 1600 transcripts resulted in 8 cDNA clones that confirmed differential expression in a slot blot analysis. One of these clones was homologous to the 3' end of seizure-related PTZ-17 RNA. Northern blot analysis showed a marked upregulation of a 2.2 kb RNA 24 hours after potassium withdrawal. This upregulation was prevented by the RNA synthesis inhibitor actinomycin D. The increase in PTZ-17 expression was specific for potassium deprivation induced apoptosis, since the other apoptosis inducers, okadaic acid and staurosporine, did not affect PTZ-17 expression. The level of PTZ-17 RNA was not significantly affected by aging in rat cerebellum. Our data suggest that the upregulation of the PTZ-17 RNA is a part of the steps leading to apoptosis during potassium deprivation in cerebellar granule cells.
We have examined the mechanisms underlying Abeta-evoked c-fos expression in the dorsal horn and gracile nucleus following either sciatic nerve section or crush injury. The results indicate that in the spinal cord Abeta-evoked c-fos does not depend on primary afferent sprouting but is associated with the disconnection from the peripheral target since its expression in the dorsal horn reverts to normal after crush injury when regeneration occurs but persists after cut and ligation where regeneration is prevented. In contrast, however, Abeta-evoked c-fos expression in the gracile nucleus may be under some other control since its expression appears independent of peripheral nerve regeneration.
The prefrontal and parietal cortex has been implicated in the mediation of spatially related behaviors in male and female laboratory rats. Meadow voles, Microtus pennsylvanicus, are diurnally-crepuscularly active microtine rodents that exhibit a variety of sexually dimorphic spatially associated behaviors in both the laboratory and wild. In the present study we examined both the spatial Morris water maze performance and dendritic architecture and branching of neuronal cells in the prefrontal and parietal cortex of reproductive male and female meadow voles. Males learned the location of the hidden platform in the water task faster than estrous females and on probe trials they spent more time in the previously correct quadrant than females. Dendritic analysis with Golgi-Cox stained sections showed that male voles had significantly more dendritic arborization in the medial prefrontal and parietal cortex than females. These sex differences in both spatial navigation ability and in neural structures related to spatial navigation in meadow voles suggest that the size of neural areas might be shaped by ecological pressures associated with sexually dimorphic spatial behaviors.
This study focused on the early neurochemical events involved in 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) neurotoxicity and the putative neuroprotective effects of pergolide. 6-OHDA in 0.1% ascorbic acid/saline was delivered into rat striatum by means of microdialysis and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) was measured as an index of hydroxyl free radical formation using salicylate trapping. Infusion of 6-OHDA (2-20 mM) via the dialysis probe for 15 min was associated with an immediate and striking increase in the extracellular levels of 2,3-DHBA and dopamine, and this effect was dose-dependent. An infusion of 10 mM 6-OHDA, equivalent to a direct injection of approximately 4 microgram free base, resulted in dopamine overflow with a maximum approx. 200-fold above the baseline. This massive overflow of toxic amounts of dopamine, much greater than expected of reuptake inhibition, seems to be the earliest response of nigrostriatal neurones to 6-OHDA. In rats treated with pergolide mesylate (7 days 0.5 mg/kg/day, i.p.), the average amount of 2, 3-DHBA associated with 6-OHDA striatal infusion was significantly smaller than that in controls. This suggests that pergolide treatment leads to an increased ability of striatal tissue to quench hydroxyl radical formation in vivo.
Bispecific antibodies capable of simultaneously binding a tumor surface antigen and the T-cell receptor/CD3 complex are capable of inducing polyclonal immune effector cells to destroy targeted tumor cells. Bispecific antibody immunotherapies have shown some promise against tumors of hematopoietic origin such as lymphomas, but use of bispecific antibodies for the treatment of solid tumors has been less fully explored. To test the preclinical potential of bispecific antibody therapy against an endogenously arising solid brain tumor, we have utilized a novel variation of conventional bispecific antibodies, referred to as bispecific ligand-antibody conjugates, to target choroid plexus tumors. The bispecific ligand-antibody conjugate described in this study is a chemical conjugate between an anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody (MAb) and folic acid, the ligand for a high-affinity surface receptor expressed on the surface of choroid plexus tumors. SV11 mice transgenic for SV40 large T antigen and its promoter develop solid choroid plexus tumors in the brain. We demonstrate that choroid plexus tumor cells are susceptible in vitro to cytolysis mediated by cytotoxic T cells in the presence of the bispecific ligand-antibody conjugate in a folate-inhibitable manner. Adoptive immunotherapy studies demonstrate the potential benefits of the bispecific ligand-antibody conjugate in vivo. The bispecific conjugate is capable of retaining adoptively transferred T lymphocytes specifically within tumor tissue for periods of up to at least 1 week. Further, following intracerebro-ventricular injection of bispecific conjugate and splenocytes containing activated cytotoxic T cells, T cells were observed to penetrate to interior regions of the tumor. A single treatment of adoptively delivered activated effectors and bispecific conjugate into the brain ventricles was insufficient to produce significant increases in survival of SV11 mice, but repeated treatment through indwelling cannulas prolonged survival of animals treated with activated effectors and bispecific ligand-antibody conjugate compared to animals treated with activated effectors or saline alone. Our results demonstrate that the SV11 model may be useful for preclinical evaluation and optimization of bispecific ligand-antibody conjugate treatments of solid tumors.
In area TE of the macaque inferior temporal cortex, horizontal axons running parallel to the pial surface mediate interactions between laterally displaced sites across the cortex. We examined the spatial distribution and the types of cells that give rise to these horizontal axons, which are important factors in determining the nature of the lateral interactions in TE. Intracortical injections of retrograde tracers labeled columnar clusters of cells and cells diffusely scattered within TE. The clusters were 0.35 +/- 0.11 mm (mean +/- SD) in diameter and were laterally distributed up to 6 mm from the injection site. Labeled cells were found in layers 2 to 6, with only a few labeled cells seen in layer 4. The clustering of labeled cells in layers 5 and 6 was looser than that in layers 2 and 3. Intracellular staining of the retrogradely labeled cells revealed that the majority of them were typical or modified pyramidal cells, both within and between the clusters. Only a few nonpyramidal interneurons were also stained at the fringe of the tracer injection site. Consistent with these results, only a small proportion of the retrogradely labeled cells exhibited gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-like immunoreactivity, mostly found within 1 mm from the injection site. The results indicate that direct horizontal interactions in TE are predominantly mediated by pyramidal or modified pyramidal cells in layers 2, 3, 5, and 6 and are primarily excitatory in nature. The contribution of GABAergic interneurons to direct horizontal interactions is restricted to only short-distance projections.
Together with the paraventricular nucleus (PVN), the dorsomedial nucleus of the hypothalamus (DMH) acts as one of the hypothalamic centers that integrate autonomic and central information. The DMH in the rat brain has extensive intrahypothalamic connections and is implicated in a wide variety of functions. Up until now, no knowledge has been available to indicate that the human DMH might have functions similar to those of the rat DMH. In the present study, intrahypothalamic efferent projections of the human DMH were revealed by a recently developed in vitro postmortem tracing method. It was found that the most densely innervated areas are the PVN, the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus, and the area below the PVN. Other significant terminal fields include the periventricular nucleus, the lateral hypothalamic area, and the medial part of the anteroventral hypothalamic area. Scarce fibers project to the suprachiasmatic nucleus, infundibular nucleus, posterior hypothalamic nucleus, and posterior part of the bed nucleus of the stria terminals. The projections of the ventral and dorsal part of the DMH show some differences. The dorsal part of the DMH has denser projections to the dorsal part of the PVN than to the ventral part of the PVN. In contrast, the ventral part of the DMH has denser projections to the ventral part of the PVN. Labeled fibers in the PVN from ventral and dorsal DMH appear to run near many vasopressin and oxytocin neurons of different sizes, and also near some corticotropin- releasing hormone neurons, suggesting that the DMH neurons may directly affect the functioning of these PVN neurons. In many aspects, the observed projections of the human DMH resemble those of the rat, indicating that the organization of DMH intrahypothalamic projections of human is similar to that of rat. The functional significance of DMH intrahypothalamic connections is discussed.
Magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) is a non-invasive functional imaging technique that can measure various brain tissue metabolites such as N-acetylaspartate (NAA), choline (Cho), creatine-phosphocreatine (Cr), myo-inositol (mI) and other metabolites. Morphological studies have indicated the pons and cerebellum as possible sites of abnormal functioning in schizophrenic patients. This study examines schizophrenic patients for the presence of abnormalities in proton MRS (1H-MRS) measured metabolites in two regions of the posterior fossa. Twelve schizophrenic patients and eight non-schizophrenic control subjects were studied by measuring the ratios of NAA/Cr, Cho/Cr and mI/Cr from 1H-spectra obtained from the pons and right or left cerebellum using an integrated MRI/MRS protocol. Spectra were obtained from a voxel in the pons and voxels from the left and/or right lateral cerebellum. Data were analyzed in the absorption mode and fitted to Lorentzian lineshapes using a Marquart algorithm. Significantly lower NAA/Cr ratios were found in the pons of schizophrenic patients than in the control subjects, but not in the cerebellum. This study is the first to measure brain tissue metabolites using 1H-MRS in the pons and cerebellum of schizophrenic patients. Significant alterations of 1H-MRS metabolites may suggest the involvement of the posterior fossa as a part of the pathological substrate underlying schizophrenia.
We examined the effect of methamphetamine on the release of acetylcholine in the striatum of freely moving rats, using an in vivo microdialysis method. The basal level of acetylcholine was 3.67+/-0.47 pmol/30 microl per 15 min in the presence of neostigmine (10 microM). Tetrodotoxin (1 microM), a selective blocker of voltage-dependent Na+ channels, markedly inhibited the release of acetylcholine in the striatal perfusates. Apomorphine (1.0 mg/kg, i.p.), a dopamine receptor agonist, also significantly attenuated acetylcholine release. Methamphetamine (0.1 and 0.5 mg/kg, i.p.) did not immediately affect acetylcholine release in the striatum, but a dose of 1.0 mg/kg (i.p.) induced an increase of acetylcholine release in the striatum at 15-60 min. Striatal infusion of methamphetamine (5 and 10 microM) did not influence acetylcholine release. The increase following intraperitoneal administration of methamphetamine was slightly diminished by haloperidol (0.5 mg/kg). After microinjection of the neurotoxin, 6-hydroxydopamine (6 microg/3 microl), in the substantia nigra 7 days before, the increase of acetylcholine induced by the administration of methamphetamine (1.0 mg/kg) was slightly attenuated, whereas the administration of reserpine (2 mg/kg, i.p.) 24 h before, combined with alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine (300 mg/kg, i.p.) 2.5 h before, completely blocked the increase in release of acetylcholine. These findings suggest that methamphetamine exerts an excitatory influence on striatal acetylcholine release in freely moving rats, and that this excitatory effect involves the dopaminergic system and the catecholaminergic system.
Although purinergic compounds are widely involved in the intra- and intercellular communication of the nervous system, little is known of their involvement in the growth and regeneration of neuronal connections. In dissociated cultures, the addition of adenosine or guanosine in the low micromolar range induced goldfish retinal ganglion cells to extend lengthy neurites and express the growth-associated protein GAP-43. These effects were highly specific and did not reflect conversion of the nucleosides to their nucleotide derivatives; pyrimidines, purine nucleotides, and membrane-permeable, nonhydrolyzable cyclic nucleotide analogs were all inactive. The activity of adenosine required its conversion to inosine, because inhibitors of adenosine deaminase rendered adenosine inactive. Exogenously applied inosine and guanosine act directly upon an intracellular target, which may coincide with a kinase described in PC12 cells. In support of this, the effects of the purine nucleosides were blocked with purine transport inhibitors and were inhibited competitively with the purine analog 6-thioguanine (6-TG). In PC12 cells, others have shown that 6-TG blocks nerve growth factor-induced neurite outgrowth and selectively inhibits the activity of protein kinase N, a partially characterized, nerve growth factor-inducible serine-threonine kinase. In both goldfish and rat retinal ganglion cells, 6-TG completely blocked outgrowth induced by other growth factors, and this inhibition was reversed with inosine. These results suggest that axon outgrowth in central nervous system neurons critically involves an intracellular purine-sensitive mechanism.
We combined fluorescent tracing with immunohistochemistry to examine nitric oxide synthase (NOS) containing neurons in the rat ventral lateral geniculate nucleus (vLGN). NOS immunopositive neurons in vLGN had a similar appearance to previously described NADPH-d positive neurons. The majority (96%) of the NOS immunopositive neurons in vLGN projected to the pretectal nuclei and these represented 16% of all the vLGN neurons that project to the pretectal nuclei. No NOS immunopositive neurons projected to the superior colliculus. Co-localization of NADPH-d and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) has been reported in vLGN neurons but we found few cells containing both NOS and GABA.
The distribution of P2X1, P2X2, P2X3, P2X4, P2X5 and P2X6 receptors, a family of ATP-gated cation channels, in rat trigeminal, dorsal root, nodose, superior cervical, and coeliac ganglia was studied immunohistochemically. It was found that polyclonal antibodies for the six P2X receptor subtypes could label over 90% of neurones in these ganglia to different intensities. There was also considerable variation in intensity of immunoreactivity in individual neurones within each ganglion. In dorsal root and trigeminal ganglia expression of the P2X3 receptor was much higher than for the other five subtypes. P2X3 immunoreactivity was much more intense in the small-diameter neurones than in the large-diameter neurones. In nodose ganglion, both P2X2 and P2X3 antibodies labelled the neurones intensely. In sympathetic superior cervical and coeliac ganglia, immunoreactivity to five P2X receptor subtypes were detected (exception, P2X5), with P2X2, P2X4 and P2X6 showing higher intensity. Low level expression of P2X3 receptor in sympathetic ganglia indicates that this receptor subtype is not limited to the sensory ganglia where it was highly expressed. The results have demonstrated that both sensory and sympathetic ganglia express a variety of P2X receptor subtypes and that different subtypes are expressed to different levels and by different subpopulations of neurones.

After long-term denervation of an upper limb in macaque monkeys, the representation of the face in somatosensory cortex expands over many millimeters into the silenced representation of the hand. Various brainstem and cortical mechanisms have been proposed to explain this phenomenon. Reorganization in the thalamus has been largely ignored. In monkeys with deafferented upper limbs for 12 to 20 years, it was found that the brainstem cuneate and the thalamic ventral posterior nuclei had undergone severe transneuronal atrophy, and physiological mapping in the thalamus revealed that the face and trunk representations were adjoined while the normally small representation of the lower face had expanded comparable to the expansion in cortex. Reorganization of brainstem and thalamic nuclei associated with slow transneuronal atrophy is likely to be a progressive process. When coupled with divergence of ascending connections, it is likely to make a substantial contribution to representational changes in cortex.
Recent studies suggest that the auditory cortex may use sensory processing strategies analogous to those already established for the visual cortex. Nevertheless, fundamental differences in the way the visual and auditory worlds are structured have to be borne in mind.
Previously reported studies from these laboratories described the design of a novel series of high-affinity NK1 antagonists based on the 4,4-disubstituted piperidine ring system. Further structure-activity studies have now established that for high NK1 affinity the benzyl ether side chain must be 3,5-disubstituted and highly lipophilic, the optimal side chain being the 3, 5-bis(trifluoromethyl)benzyl ether, 12 (hNK1 IC50 = 0.95 nM). Additional studies have shown that this class of NK1 antagonist tolerates a wider range of substituents on the piperidine nitrogen, including acyl (38) (hNK1 IC50 = 5.3 nM) and sulfonyl (39) (hNK1 IC50 = 5.7 nM) derivatives. Following preliminary pharmacokinetic analysis, two compounds (32 and 43) were selected for in vivo study in the resiniferotoxin-induced vascular leakage model, both showing excellent profiles (ID50 = 0.22 and 0.28 mg/kg, respectively).
Five phenyl-substituted derivatives and analogues of 1,2,3,4,5, 6-hexahydroazepino[4,5-b]indole, 5, a major fragment of ibogaine (1), were synthesized and tested for binding to monoamine transporters, the NMDA receptor-coupled cation channel, and dopamine and opioid receptors. All five derivatives, 9 and 17a-d, displayed 8-10-fold higher affinity at the DA transporter than ibogaine and noribogaine (4). At the serotonin transporter, two compounds (9 and 17a) exhibited higher potency than ibogaine, while the rest had weaker binding affinities than the lead compound. In keeping with their structural similarity to ibogaine, all five compounds displayed weak to poor affinity for dopamine D1 and D2 receptors. However, two compounds, 17a,c, demonstrated moderate binding affinities at dopamine D3 receptors. All five compounds displayed weak to poor affinities for mu and kappa opioid receptors and for the NMDA receptor-coupled cation channel. Despite the qualitative differences, derivatives and analogues of 5may serve as useful substitutes for ibogaine.
Stem cells isolated from the embryonic day 14 mouse striatum proliferate in response to epidermal growth factor (EGF). These stem cells produce clonally derived clusters of undifferentiated cells (spheres) which, in turn, produce neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes. Reverse transcription followed by polymerase chain reaction showed that EGF-generated spheres express several of the retinoid receptors. Thus, we asked whether all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) could regulate the differentiation or proliferation of central nervous system stem cell-derived progeny. Under conditions that promote differentiation, cultures of dissociated spheres showed a dose-dependent increase in neuron numbers in response to ATRA. At the most effective neurogenic concentration (0.1 microM ATRA), neuron production increased two- to threefold. However, no difference in the total numbers of control and treated cells was observed. Delayed addition experiments suggest that responsive cells must be exposed to ATRA within the first 24 h in culture. Bromodeoxyuridine incorporation labeling indicates that the ATRA-generated neurons are derived from a mitotically active population of cells. Under conditions that promote glial progenitor cell division, however, ATRA attenuated proliferation (maximum of 60% decrease with 0.1 microM ATRA), accompanied by an increase in the number of glial fibrillary acidic protein-immunoreactive astrocytes. These results suggest that retinoids can regulate the proliferation of mitotically active EGF-responsive stem cell progeny to enhance neurogenesis and astrocyte differentiation.
alpha-Latrotoxin stimulates neurotransmitter release probably by binding to two receptors, CIRL/latrophilin 1 (CL1) and neurexin Ialpha. We have now produced recombinant alpha-latrotoxin (LtxWT) that is as active as native alpha-latrotoxin in triggering synaptic release of glutamate, GABA and norepinephrine. We have also generated three alpha-latrotoxin mutants with substitutions in conserved cysteine residues, and a fourth mutant with a four-residue insertion. All four alpha-latrotoxin mutants were found to be unable to trigger release. Interestingly, the insertion mutant LtxN4C exhibited receptor-binding affinities identical to wild-type LtxWT, bound to CL1 and neurexin Ialpha as well as LtxWT, and similarly stimulated synaptic hydrolysis of phosphatidylinositolphosphates. Therefore, receptor binding by alpha-latrotoxin and stimulation of phospholipase C are insufficient to trigger exocytosis. This conclusion was confirmed in experiments with La3+ and Cd2+. La3+ blocked release triggered by LtxWT, whereas Cd2+ enhanced it. Both cations, however, had no effect on the stimulation by LtxWT of phosphatidylinositolphosphate hydrolysis. Our data show that receptor binding by alpha-latrotoxin and activation of phospholipase C do not by themselves trigger exocytosis. Thus receptors recruit alpha-latrotoxin to its point of action without activating exocytosis. Exocytosis probably requires an additional receptor-independent activity of alpha-latrotoxin that is selectively inhibited by the LtxN4C mutation and by La3+.
Oculomotor organization in elasmobranch fish (sharks, skates, and rays) differs from that in other vertebrates in that the medial rectus muscle is innervated by contralateral rather than ipsilateral motoneurons. Distinguishing whether this innervation pattern is unique to the elasmobranchs, or is the ancestral pattern for cartilaginous fishes, requires examination of a representative of the sister group to the elasmobranchs, the holocephalans (ratfish). In the present study, the innervation pattern of the medial rectus was examined in a ratfish, Hydrolagus colliei, by using biotinylated dextran amines (BDA, 3,000 MW). Labeled cells were revealed in the contralateral oculomotor nucleus. Therefore, an innervation pattern in which the medial rectus muscle is innervated by contralateral motoneurons is the primitive condition for cartilaginous fishes.
Spontaneous reocurrence of neurofilament (NF)-positive fibers has been described after spinal cord lesions in rats. However, previously introduced methods to evaluate the lesion and the regenerative fiber outgrowth suffer from several biases, why a new concept of quantitative, morphological analysis after spinal cord injury is needed. Length quantification of the putatively spontaneously regenerating fibers has been difficult until recently, when two length estimators based on sampling with isotropic virtual planes within thick physical sections were introduced. The applicability of these techniques to estimate the total length of NF-positive fibers was evaluated in photochemically induced ischemic lesions of thoracic spinal cords in young rats 6 weeks postlesion. Fiber length was found to be the most consistent measure with a mean of 3.71 m (coefficient of variation, CV = 0.16) in the 0.90 mm3 (CV = 0.26) large lesions. Whether or not the NF-positive fibers observed inside the lesion represent spontaneously regenerating axons needs to be confirmed in longitudinal, functional, and ultrastructural studies.
Intracranial transection of the facial nerve has been shown to cause a massive neuronal cell death in the motor facial nucleus. Complement activation has been proposed to contribute to neuronal degeneration following axotomy. Using immunocytochemistry and in situ hybridization we show in the present study that there is complement activation in the facial nucleus after intracranial facial nerve transection as well as increase of the complement regulators CD59 and clusterin. We propose a neuroprotective role for the complement regulators CD59 and clusterin against homologous attack of complement to facial motor neurons.
The goal of this investigation was to determine whether there is a familial tendency in the development of benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV). We hypothesized an increased frequency of BPPV among relatives of patients with the same diagnosis. BPPV is caused by dislodged otoconia from the utricular macula floating in the semicircular canals. At least half of BPPV cases are idiopathic and most pathological associations provide no clue as to the reason otoconia become dislodged. We have noted a number of BPPV patients with family histories of BPPV, suggesting a genetic predisposition to the condition. We surveyed 120 successive BPPV patients and 120 successive dizzy patients without BPPV regarding the frequency of dizziness and BPPV (diagnosed by a physician) among family members. Patients in our group with BPPV were 5 times as likely to have relatives with BPPV compared to the dizzy control group (chi2=5.95, DF=1, p=0.015). We have demonstrated that there is a familial tendency for the occurrence of BPPV. There is nothing in our data that would distinguish between a hereditary or environmental influence in the development of the disease, however.
Our previous studies indicated that acute haemorrhage leads to a pronounced increase in the release of endothelium-derived nitric oxide (EDNO) graded in relation to the magnitude of the blood loss. The EDNO-induced vasodilatation, confined selectively to the arterial 'feeder' vessels, attenuates the concomitant reflex adrenergic constriction and thereby prevents deleterious reduction of blood flow. The present study aimed at investigating whether the reflex release of blood-borne catecholamines might trigger this EDNO release via activation of endothelial alpha 2-adrenoceptors. The study was performed on the sympathectomized vascular bed of cat skeletal muscle with a technique permitting quantitative recordings of resistance (tone) in consecutive vascular sections. Selection alpha 2-adrenoceptor blockade with idazoxan applied at steady state vasoconstriction after a 35% blood loss evoked an initial generalized dilator response (attributable to inhibition of post-synaptic smooth muscle alpha 2-adrenoceptors), followed by a constrictor response selectively in the arterial feeder vessels, the latter compatible with the hypothesis of reduced EDNO release by alpha 2-adrenoceptor blockade. More direct evidence for the hypothesis was obtained from studies of the vascular response to EDNO blockade (L-NAME) after haemorrhage in the presence and absence of alpha 2-adrenoceptor blockade. The constrictor response to EDNO blockade, which is a measure of the pre-existing EDNO dilator influence (EDNO production), was significantly smaller (P &lt; 0.01) in the presence than absence of alpha 2-adrenoceptor blockade. The results indicate that blood-borne catecholamines, via activation of endothelial alpha 2-adrenoceptors, trigger the increase in the EDNO release in acute haemorrhage, implying a functionally important negative feedback in the integrated control of vascular tone in bleeding.
We report a severe case of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) that responded to very high doses of citalopram (160 mg/day) after a poor response to clomipramine 250 mg/day for several years, alone or in combination with buspirone 30 mg/day or flupenthixol 4 mg/day. The patient had previously been submitted for capsulotomy which was declined, probably due to the magical content of her obsessions, which resembled delusions.
In 1984, a study in Goteborg, Sweden, reported the quality of life of 61 out-patients with schizophrenia (DSM-III) to be low, despite their high standard of living. The respondents used an instrument (QLS-100) developed by the author to indicate which of 100 items they considered to be unsatisfactory. Interviews captured objective conditions of the patients' lives and their quality-of-life goals for each unsatisfactory item. The results of the study led during the late 1980s to deliberately individualized services, aimed at helping patients to attain their own quality-of-life goals. In total, 40 of the subjects took part in a 10-year follow-up. The 1994 study showed that the incidence of living alone in one's own home increased. Overall quality of life remained unchanged. Although still low, quality of life increased significantly in three of 14 domains, namely contacts, inner experiences, and knowledge and education. The reasons for these improvements and the maintained overall quality of life could be that patients increased their ability to interact with the environment, that they increased and/or modified their aspirations in the light of available resources and/or deficits, and that housekeeping assistance and service were provided conditional on the patients' own quality-of-life goals and needs.
Prenatal ethanol exposure has been associated with long-lasting intellectual impairments in children. Previous studies suggest that these deficits are, in part, linked to neurochemical abnormalities that reduce the ability to sustain long-term potentiation (LTP) in hippocampal formation of adult offspring. One presynaptic component of LTP that manifests during the first half-hour after tetanic stimulation is an enhancement of amino acid neurotransmitter release. Given that the onset of enhanced neurotransmitter release correlates temporally with the decay of hippocampal LTP in prenatal ethanol-exposed offspring, we tested the hypothesis that prenatal ethanol exposure reduces tetanus stimulus-induced potentiation of electrically evoked amino acid release in hippocampal slices. Rat dams consumed 1 of 3 diets throughout gestation: (1) a BioServ liquid diet containing 5% (v/v) ethanol (26% ethanol-derived calories) that produces a maternal peak blood ethanol concentration of 83 mg/dl; (2) pair-fed an isocalorically equivalent amount of 0% ethanol liquid diet; or (3) Purina rat chow ad libitum. Hippocampal slices were prepared from adult offspring from each experimental diet group. Neither the amount of hippocampal slice tissue protein nor the incorporation of [3H]-D-aspartate (D-ASP) was affected by prenatal ethanol exposure. Furthermore, spontaneous efflux and electrically evoked D-ASP release were similar among the three diet groups. However, tetanus stimulus-induced potentiation of evoked D-ASP release in prenatal ethanol-exposed offspring was reduced to about one-third of the potentiation of D-ASP release observed in the control diet groups. These results suggest that prenatal ethanol exposure produces long-lasting deficits in the neurochemical mechanisms responsible for activity-dependent potentiation of amino acid transmitter release without affecting the synaptic machinery responsible for amino acid uptake, storage, and release.
To identify alcohol-responsive brain areas, we have immunohistochemically analyzed expression of c-Fos, FosB, and other Fos-related antigens in the brain of inbred DBA/2J mice after a single or repeated injection of alcohol (4 g/kg). We observed increased expression of c-Fos after alcohol administration in the central nucleus of amygdala, paraventricular nuclei of hypothalamus and thalamus, and several other brain areas. Although increased expression of c-Fos in the nucleus accumbens was also observed, this increase was not statistically significant. Repeated administration of alcohol had the tendency to reduce alcohol-induced c-Fos expression in these areas. Immunohistochemical analysis using an antibody recognizing most Fos-related antigens revealed increases of expression of these proteins in a partially overlapping set of brain regions. In contrast to c-Fos, FosB expression was found to be elevated significantly higher after repeated than after acute treatment with alcohol in several brain areas, including the shell of nucleus accumbens. In contrast to previous c-Fos studies, our studies confirm that alcohol administration indeed activates the reward circuits, including the basal ganglia, and suggest that FosB could serve as a more sensitive marker for this activation.
Choroidal neovascularization (CNV) is the major cause of severe visual loss in patients with age-related macular degeneration. Laser treatment is helpful for a minority of patients with CNV, and development of new treatments is hampered by a poor understanding of the molecular signals involved. Several lines of evidence have suggested that basic fibroblast growth factor (FGF2) plays a role in stimulating CNV. In this study, we tested this hypothesis using mice with targeted disruption of the FGF2 gene in a newly developed murine model of laser-induced CNV. One week after krypton laser photocoagulation in C57BL/6J mice, 34 of 60 burns (57%) showed fluorescein leakage and 13 of 16 (81%) showed histopathological evidence of CNV. At 2 weeks, CNV was detected in 9 of 10 burns (90%) in which a bubble had been observed at the time of the laser treatment. Electron microscopy showed fenestrated vessels with large lumens within choroidal neovascular lesions. Two weeks after laser-induced rupture of Bruch's membrane, 27 of 36 burns (75%) contained CNV in FGF2-deficient mice compared with 26 of 30 (87%) in wild-type control mice, a difference that is not statistically significant. This study demonstrates that FGF2 is not required for the development of CNV after laser-induced rupture of Bruch's membrane and provides a new model to investigate molecular mechanisms and anti-angiogenic therapy in CNV.
Chemokines interact with specific G-protein-coupled receptors to activate and direct recruitment of immune cells. Some chemokines are up-regulated in pathological conditions of the central nervous system, and recently several chemokine receptors, including CCR5, were identified in the brain. However, little is known about the regulation of expression of chemokine receptors in the brain. Direct intracerebral injection of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA), an excitatory amino acid agonist, elicits reproducible focal excitotoxic brain injury; in neonatal rats, intrahippocampal NMDA injection stimulates expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines and elicits a robust microglia/monocyte response. We hypothesized that NMDA-induced neurotoxicity would also stimulate expression of CCR5 in the neonatal rat brain. We evaluated the impact of intrahippocampal injections of NMDA on CCR5 expression in postnatal day 7 rats. Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction revealed an increase in hippocampal CCR5 mRNA expression 24 hours after lesioning, and in situ hybridization analysis demonstrated that CCR5 mRNA was expressed in the lesioned hippocampus and adjacent regions. Western blot analysis demonstrated increased CCR5 protein in hippocampal tissue extracts 32 hours after lesioning. Complementary immunocytochemistry studies identified both infiltrating microglia/monocytes and injured neurons as the principal CCR5-immunoreactive cells. These results provide the first evidence that acute excitotoxic injury regulates CCR5 expression in the developing rat brain.
Experiments were performed to examine the contribution of arterial baroreceptors to long-term regulation of mean arterial pressure (MAP) during changes in dietary salt intake. Normotensive Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to either sinoaortic denervation (SAD; n = 8) or Sham surgery (n = 6) and instrumented 1 wk later with radiotelemetry transmitters for continuous minute-to-minute monitoring of MAP and heart rate (HR) over the 8-wk protocol. Rats consumed three levels of dietary NaCl: 0.4% NaCl (week 1), 4.0% NaCl (weeks 2-4), and 8.0% NaCl (weeks 5-7). Rats returned to a 0.4% NaCl diet during the eighth week of the experiment. During week 1 (0.4% NaCl), there were no differences between Sham and SAD groups for 24-h averages of MAP or HR. However, by the third week of 4.0% NaCl, 24-h MAP was elevated significantly from baseline in SAD (10 +/- 2 mmHg) but not Sham (1 +/- 1 mmHg) rats. By the end of the third week of 8.0% NaCl diet, 24-h MAP was elevated 15 +/- 2 mmHg above control in SAD rats compared with a 4 +/- 1 mmHg increase in Sham rats (P &lt; 0.05). Hourly analysis of the final 72 h of each level of dietary salt revealed a marked effect of dietary NaCl on MAP in SAD rats, particularly during the dark cycle. MAP increased approximately 20 and 30 mmHg in SAD rats over the 12-h dark cycle for 4.0 and 8.0% NaCl diets, respectively. In contrast, increased dietary NaCl had no effect on MAP during any phase of the light or dark period in Sham rats. These data support the hypothesis that arterial baroreceptors play a critical role in long-term regulation of MAP under conditions of altered dietary salt intake. Finally, hourly analysis of MAP revealed that the majority of the hypertensive response to increased NaCl occurs during the dark cycle in SAD rats. Hence, previous investigations may have underestimated the magnitude of the hypertensive response to increased dietary NaCl in animals with baroreceptor dysfunction.
Fasting induces nocturnal hypothermia in pigeons. Slow-wave sleep (SWS) and paradoxical sleep (PS) are associated with reduced heat production in pigeons. The possibility that fasting-induced nocturnal hypothermia is related to increased SWS and PS was examined by comparing body temperature (Tb) and vigilance states when pigeons were fed and fasted. The results showed that when Tb is decreasing near the beginning of the dark phase, the percentage of total recording time (%TRT) spent in SWS and PS was elevated in fasting due to increased frequency of episodes and increased duration of PS episodes. When Tb was low during the middle segment of the dark phase, SWS was elevated in fasting due to increased episode duration. However, fasting did not alter PS, which increased in %TRT across the segment due to increased episode frequency. When Tb was rising during the final hours of dark, SWS remained elevated in fasting and %TRT in SWS and PS was relatively high. SWS and PS may promote the fasting pigeon's entry into, and maintenance of, nocturnal hypothermia.
The present experiment investigated the expression of the nuclear phosphoprotein Fos over the 24-h light-dark cycle in regions of the rat brain related to sleep and vigilance, including the ventrolateral preoptic area (VLPO), the paraventricular thalamic nucleus (PVT), and the central medial thalamic nucleus (CMT). Immunocytochemistry for Fos, an immediate-early gene product used as an index of neuronal activity, was carried out on brain sections from rats perfused at zeitgeber time (ZT) 1, ZT 5, ZT 12.5, and ZT 17 (lights on ZT 0-ZT 12). The number of Fos-immunopositive (Fos+) cells in the VLPO was elevated at ZT 5 and 12.5 (i.e., during or just after the rest phase of the cycle). Fos+ cell number increased at ZT 17 and ZT 1 in the PVT and CMT, 180 degrees out of phase with the VLPO. A positive correlation was found between the numbers of Fos+ cells in the PVT and CMT, and Fos expression in each thalamic nucleus was negatively correlated with VLPO Fos+ cell number. The VLPO, PVT, and CMT may integrate circadian and homeostatic influences to regulate the sleep-wake cycle.
Muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) was measured directly along with blood pressure at rest in 69 healthy women (20-79 yr old) and 76 age-matched healthy men (16-80 yr old). All were nonobese and normotensive. In the women and men the MSNA was positively correlated with age (women: y = 0.788x - 5.418, r = 0.846, P &lt; 0. 0001; men: y = 0.452x + 12.565, r = 0.751, P &lt; 0.0001). The regression intercept of y was significantly lower (P &lt; 0.0001) in the women than in the men, and the regression slope was significantly steeper (P &lt; 0.0001) in the women. The MSNA was lower in women than in men among those &lt;30 (P = 0.0012), 30-39 (P = 0. 0126), and 40-49 yr old (P = 0.0462) but was similar in women and men among those 50-59 (P = 0.1911, NS) and &gt;/=60 yr old (P = 0.1739, NS). The results suggest that MSNA increases with age in women and men and that the activity is markedly lower in young women than in men but is markedly accelerated with age.
Shivering (electromyographic activity of the pectoral muscle), oxygen consumption, and body temperature were measured from undisturbed pigeons for periods of several weeks, and segments from the midparts of each phase of the light-dark cycle were compared at various ambient temperatures and feeding regimes. Behavior was recorded with a video camera. None of the observed types of behavior (e.g., walking, preening, feeding, drinking, pecking, defecation) induced spurious electrical activity in the pectoral muscle. On the other hand, none of these behaviors directly inhibited ongoing shivering. There was no difference in the mean level of shivering between the light (L) and dark (D) phases of the day in any of the conditions, although body temperature was 2 degreesC higher during L. Measurements of integrated electromyogram (EMG) with high temporal resolution (28 samples/s) showed that, at 1 degreesC, shivering in the pectoral muscle was present for more than 98% of the time. Plots of oxygen consumption against root mean square EMG were obtained in each condition by a filtering procedure that excludes data points in which oxygen consumption is affected by motor activity. These plots showed that the increase in heat production induced by a unit increase in pectoral EMG was lower in D than in L and that it was further lowered by fasting. The amplitude spectra of raw EMG signals were similar in all conditions. Spectra of demodulated (rectified, low-pass filtered) EMG showed a distinct rhythmicity around 8 Hz at 21 degreesC that was further enhanced by fasting but absent at 1 degreesC. This suggests that the degree of synchronization and pattern of recruitment of motor units are specific for various temperatures and feeding regimes, and may partly explain the variable relation between heat production and muscle electrical activity. The results emphasize the advantages of long-term measurements for understanding the control of thermogenesis in birds.
Evidence exists to support the concept of sex difference in immune system activation by pyrogenic cytokines. In this study, fever development was monitored to analyze the effect of peripheral administration of interleukin (IL)-1beta (1 microgram/kg) in adult male and cycling or ovariectomized female rats with or without ovarian hormonal replacement. In male and randomly cycling female rats, a similar increase in body temperature occurred after intraperitoneal IL-1beta injection. Two representative stages of estrus with higher and lower levels of ovarian hormones (proestrus and diestrus, respectively) were chosen for study of the febrile response induced by IL-1beta. The fever induced by IL-1beta was found to be significantly higher and more prolonged in females at proestrus than at diestrus. The differential fever response seems to be mainly linked to the ovarian hormonal levels because bilaterally ovariectomized females, supplemented with sequential injections of estradiol 17beta and progesterone, showed a significantly higher IL-1beta fever than did ovariectomized rats receiving estradiol 17beta only. These results indicate that gonadal hormones can influence fever development and raise the possibility of interaction between sex hormones and thermogenesis in females during the estrous cycle.
We review the extensive physiological and neuroanatomical evidence for the innervation of white adipose tissue (WAT) by the sympathetic nervous system (SNS) as well as what is known about the sensory innervation of this tissue. The SNS innervation of WAT appears to be a part of the general SNS outflow from the central nervous system, consisting of structures and connections throughout the neural axis. The innervation of WAT by the SNS could play a role in the regulation of total body fat in general, most likely plays an important role in regional differences in lipid mobilization specifically, and may have a trophic affect on WAT. The exact nature of the SNS innervation of WAT is not known but it may involve contact with adipocytes and/or their associated vasculature. We hypothesize that the SNS innervation of WAT is an important contributor to the apparent &quot;regulation&quot; of total body fat.

Low-power bright field photomicrographs often suffer from insufficient sharpness, uneven illumination, and colour hues. Using a film scanner, commercially available and designed for digitizing 35-mm transparencies, we directly scanned microscopic slides that carried dye-labelled and stained sections. The digital images covered a field of up to 24 x 36 mm and revealed excellent sharpness, absolutely even illumination and superior colour reproduction as compared to conventional photomicrographs taken with binoculars, macro lenses, or microscopes. As the method requires neither specialized instrumentation nor expert knowledge of photomicrographic techniques, it reduces costs and saves time. The high-quality digital survey micrographs can easily be used for image processing, image analysis and morphometry. Thus, this new method is valuable not only for pathology, embryology, histochemistry, and the neurosciences, but also for the exchange of low-power micrographs via the internet and for computer media that are increasingly used in medical education.
We performed electrophysiological and serological testing within 15 days of symptom onset on 369 patients with Guillain-Barr Syndrome (GBS) enrolled in a trial comparing plasma exchange, intravenous immunoglobulin, and both treatments. Patients were classified into five groups by motor nerve conduction criteria; 69% were demyelinating, 3% axonal, 3% inexcitable, 2% normal, and 23% equivocal. Six of 10 (60%) patients with axonal neurophysiology had had a preceding diarrheal illness compared with 71 of 359 (20%) in other groups. Antiganglioside GM1 antibodies were present in a higher proportion of patients with axonal physiology or inexcitable nerves than other patients. The number dead or unable to walk unaided at 48 weeks was greater in the group with initially inexcitable nerves (6 of 12, 50%) compared with the rest (52 of 357, 15%), but was not significantly different between the axonal (1 of 10, 10%) and demyelinating (44 of 254, 17%) groups. Sensory action potentials and clinical sensory examination were both normal in 53 of 342 (16%) patients, and these &quot;pure motor GBS&quot; patients were more likely than other GBS patients to have IgG antiganglioside GM1 antibodies and to have had preceding diarrhea but had a similar outcome. The axonal group was more likely than other groups to have normal sensory action potentials. The outcomes in response to the three treatments did not differ in any subgroup (including patients with pure motor GBS or preceding diarrhea) or any neurophysiological category.


Skin does more than present one's &quot;face&quot; to the world; it plays a vital role in the maintenance of physical and mental health. As our most ancient interface, skin retains the ability to respond to both endogenous and exogenous stimuli, sensing and integrating environmental cues while transmitting intrinsic conditions to the outside world. As such, it has long been a target for the application of both medical and nonmedical therapies of healthy and diseased states. Our understanding of how the skin and topical therapies affect health is in its infancy. Conversely, we known little of how our internal systems affect our skin. By exploring an elaborate web of neuro-immuno-cutaneous-endocrine (NICE) phenomena, we seek to shed light on the generally acknowledged, but inadequately defined, relationship between mental and physical health. We use skin as our window, noting some of the biological mediators linking nervous, immune, cutaneous, and endocrine functions. It is likely that these mediators are important in homeostasis, and that they affect several dermatologic and psychiatric conditions.

Vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) proliferation associated with arterial injury causes restenosis, which remains to be resolved in cardiovascular and ischemic cerebrovascular disease, especially after balloon angioplasty. Fibroblast growth factor (FGF) is a potent mitogen and a trophic factor for a variety of cells, including VSMCs. We constructed a replication-deficient adenovirus vector, designated AxCA delta FR, coding a truncated form of fibroblast growth factor receptor-1 (FGFR-1) gene lacking the intracellular domain to interrupt receptor-mediated FGF signaling, and examined its effect on the proliferation of primary-cultured rat VSMCs. We transferred the truncated form of the FGFR-1 gene to the VSMCs and confirmed its expression and localization in infected cells by Western blotting and immunofluorescence study. The VSMCs infected with AxCA delta FR degenerated and the proliferation of these cells was suppressed markedly by the infection with this virus in vitro. Our results suggest that the receptor-mediated signal of FGFs has an important role in VSMC proliferation and gene transfer of a truncated form of FGFR using adenoviral vector may be useful for the treatment of the diseases caused by excessive proliferation of VSMCs like restenosis after percutaneous transluminal angioplasty or carotid endoarterectomy.
Using anesthetized and immobilized monkeys, this study investigated the representation of the visual field in the superior temporal sulcus in the posterior inferotemporal cortex. Of 1043 neurons in the posterior inferotemporal cortex including the sulcus and the gyrus, and surrounding areas that were tested, 540 (52%) responded to visual stimuli and their receptive fields were mapped. In the ventral bank of the superior temporal sulcus at the level corresponding to the posterior middle temporal sulcus, the foveal visual fields, which were dominant, were represented ventrally and the parafoveal visual fields dorsally. The upper and lower visual fields were represented intermingledly and no segregation between the representation of the upper and lower visual fields was seen. In the lateral convexity of the gyrus, the foveal visual fields were represented dorsally and the peripheral visual fields ventrally with the foveal visual fields being predominant. The upper visual fields were represented posteriorly, however locations and sizes of the representation of the upper and lower visual fields varied between hemispheres. The receptive field sizes of neurons in the sulcus were almost the same as those in the gyrus, and these receptive field sizes were intermediate between those of anterior inferotemporal neurons and V4 neurons. These findings suggest that the cortex in the sulcus in the posterior inferotemporal cortex is involved in the central vision, similarly to the cortex in the gyrus.
Order Rodentia comprises a vast portion of mammalian species (1814 species), which occupy extremely diverse habitats requiring very distinct motor specializations (e.g. burrowing, hopping, climbing, flying and swimming). Although early classification of paw use ability suggests rodents are impoverished relative to primates and make little use of their paws, there have been no systematic investigations of paw use in rodents. The present study was undertaken to describe limb/paw movements in a variety of common rodents. The movements used for handling sunflower seeds and other foods were videorecorded and analyzed in the guinea pig (Cavia porcellus), Mongolian gerbil (Meriones unguiculatus), Syrian hamster (Mesocricetus auratus), laboratory mouse (Mus musculus), laboratory rat (Rattus norvegicus), gray squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis), red squirrel (Tamiasciurus hudsonicus), Richardson's ground squirrel (Spermophilus richardsonni), prairie dog (Cynomus parvidens), and Canadian beaver (Castor americanus). The results suggested five order-common movements of food handling: (1) locating food by sniffing, (2) grasping food by mouth, (3) sitting back on the haunches to eat, (4) grasping the food using an elbow-in movement, and (5) manipulate the food with the digits. Different species displayed species-typical specializations including (1) bilateral grasping with the paws (gerbil), (2) unilateral grasping with a paw (beaver), (3) unilateral holding (ground squirrels), (4) various grip and digit postures (all species), (5) unilateral object removal from the mouth (gerbil), (6) bilateral thumb holding (squirrels), and (7) simultaneous holding/manipulation of two objects (squirrels). Only the guinea pig did not handle food with its paws, suggesting its behavior is regressive. The existence of a core pattern of paw and digit use in rodents suggests that skilled limb and paw movements originate at least with the common ancestors of the rodent, and likely the common ancestor to rodent and primate lineages, while species-typical movements suggest specialization/regression of limb use has occurred in a number of mammalian orders.
Various spatial memory deficits have been described in rats with damage to the hippocampal formation (including the subiculum and the entorhinal cortex) and particularly in rats with selective lesions of the hippocampus proper. So far, the involvement of the entorhinal cortex in spatial memory is still controversial and the role of the subiculum is poorly documented. The aim of the present study was to compare the behavioural effects of selective lesions of the hippocampus, the entorhinal cortex or the subiculum in (a) a water-maze task using testing procedures sensitive to the disruption of reference or working memory and (b) in an object exploration task designed to evaluate habituation and subsequently reactions to changes of the spatial layout of objects (spatial change) or to the substitution of a familiar object by a new one (nonspatial change). Our results showed several similarities between the behavioural consequences of damage to each of the three structures. A few differences were also noted. Hippocampal rats were impaired in all spatial tasks, but they reacted like controls to a nonspatial change. The rats sustaining lesions of the entorhinal cortex or the subiculum were not impaired in the reference-memory procedure of the water-maze task and showed a deficit in reacting to a nonspatial change. Overall, our results confirm the central role of the hippocampus in spatial memory and also suggest a role for the entorhinal cortex and the subiculum in processing spatial informations. In addition, they indicate that the entorhinal cortex and the subiculum may have a hippocampal-independent role in memory.





In studies to determine the neurochemical mechanisms underlying adaptation to altered gravity we have investigated changes in neuropeptide levels in brainstem, cerebellum, hypothalamus, striatum, hippocampus, and cerebral cortex by radioimmunoassay. Fourteen days of hypergravity (hyperG) exposure resulted in significant increases in thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) content of brainstem and cerebellum, but no changes in levels of other neuropeptides (beta-endorphin, cholecystokinin, met-enkephalin, somatostatin, and substance P) examined in these areas were found, nor were TRH levels significantly changed in any other brain regions investigated. The increase in TRH in brainstem and cerebellum was not seen in animals exposed only to the rotational component of centrifugation, suggesting that this increase was elicited by the alteration in the gravitational environment. The only other neuropeptide affected by chronic hyperG exposure was met-enkephalin, which was significantly decreased in the cerebral cortex. However, this alteration in met-enkephalin was found in both hyperG and rotation control animals and thus may be due to the rotational rather than the hyperG component of centrifugation. Thus it does not appear as if there is a generalized neuropeptide response to chronic hyperG following 2 weeks of exposure. Rather, there is an increase only of TRH and that occurs only in areas of the brain known to be heavily involved with vestibular inputs and motor control (both voluntary and autonomic). These results suggest that TRH may play a role in adaptation to altered gravity as it does in adaptation to altered vestibular input following labyrinthectomy, and in cerebellar and vestibular control of locomotion, as seen in studies of ataxia.
Increased levels of endothelin-1 (Et-1), a potent vasoconstrictor, have been correlated with hypertension and neuronal damage in ischemic/reperfusion injury. The presence of polymorphonuclear cells (PMNs) in the brain has been shown to be directly responsible for this observed pathology. To address the question of whether Et-1 plays a role in this process, human brain-derived endothelial cells (CNS-ECs) were cultured with Et-1. The results demonstrate that Et-1 induces production of the neutrophil chemoattractant interleukin-8 (IL-8) twofold to threefold after 72 hours; mRNA was maximal after 1 hour of stimulation. Conditioned culture medium derived from Et-1-stimulated CNS-ECs induced a chemotactic response in the PMN migration assay. The inflammatory cytokines tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF) and IL-1beta functioned additively with Et-1 in increasing IL-8 production. In contrast, transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta), but not IL-10, completely abolished the effect of Et-1 on IL-8 production. However, Et-1 did not modulate intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) expression. These data demonstrate that Et-1 may be a risk factor in ischemic/reperfusion injury by inducing increased levels of the neutrophil chemoattractant IL-8.

In vivo brain microdialysis was used to investigate the influence of lobeline on dopamine (DA) and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) overflow in the core of the nucleus accumbens of freely-moving rats pretreated with nicotine (0.4 mg x kg(-1), s.c., once per day for 5 days). Locomotion was also recorded. Lobeline, at doses of 0.7, 4.0 and 10.0 mg x kg(-1), i.p., failed to elicit any significant changes in extracellular dopamine or dihydroxyphenylacetic acid levels during the 60 min following its administration and did not stimulate locomotor. The dopamine responses to nicotine (0.4 mg x kg(-1), s.c.), were abolished (P&lt;0.01) if the nicotine challenge was administered 10 min but not 60 min, after lobeline doses of 4.0 and 10.0 mg kg(-1), i.p., but were unaffected following lobeline at the lowest dose tested (0.7 mg x kg(-1), i.p.) at either time. The increase in locomotor activity was significantly attenuated (P&lt;0.01), to a similar extent, when the nicotine was injected 10 min, but not 60 min, after all three doses of lobeline (0.7, 4.0 and 10.0 mg kg(-1), i.p.) when compared with the saline-treated rats. The results suggest that lobeline is a short-acting antagonist of the nicotinic AChRs which mediate the effects of nicotine on mesolimbic dopamine activity and locomotor stimulation.
1. The lamotrigine analogue 619C89, utilised to reduce postischaemic and posttraumatic neuronal injury, has been shown to inhibit sodium channels and cloned N-type calcium channels. To verify whether this neuroprotective agent also blocked native calcium channels, we have tested its action in cortical pyramidal neurones, acutely isolated from the adult rat brain. 2. 619C89 inhibited more than 90% of the high voltage-activated calcium currents recorded in the whole-cell configuration. The response was relatively slow in onset (30-60 s), recovered incompletely (96%), but showed no consistent desensitization. 3. This inhibitory effect was not selective for any calcium channel subtype, being largely unaffected by omega-conotoxin-GVIA, omega-agatoxin-IVA, omega-conotoxin-MVIIC and dihydropyridine antagonists. 4. Saturating responses to 619C89 were detected for concentrations &gt; or = 50 microM. Dose-response curves revealed that 619C89 have an approximately 8 microM binding site. 5. The effect of 619C89 was dependent on the divalent concentrations in that its potency was reduced on increase of the charge carrier up to 20 mM barium. Since the lamotrigine analogue shifted to the right the dose-dependence of the cadmium block, the 619C89-mediated inhibition of calcium currents seemed to rely on a direct interaction with the channel pore. Functional implications are discussed.
Almost from the inception of psychological enquiry into reaction time (RT), a broad distinction has been drawn between two types of process-serving performance in RT tasks, namely, the on-line processes initiated by the arrival of the imperative signal and preparatory processes, which precede the imperative signal and may contribute to performance efficiency. Restriction of attention to on-line processing fosters the conclusion that the processes serving simple RT are no more than a subset of those involved in choice reactions. If, however, latencies can be reduced by specific preparation then the certitudes of the simple reaction task may invest it with distinctive properties. The possibility of preparation being sensory as well as motor needs to be considered. Until recently, attempts to study preparedness have failed to make controlled comparisons across simple and choice RT. However, recent work has shown that simple reactions have distinctive characteristics that set them apart from minimal choice reactions. The optimization of simple RT seems to depend upon attention-demanding processes which are probably preparatory in nature. When attention has to be shared with a concurrent task, much of the normal advantage of the simple reaction is lost. Neuropsychological studies suggest that patients may be found with abnormally extended simple RT but spared choice reactions. In these patients, the simple reactions are prolonged relative to those of controls but less vulnerable to imposition of a secondary task. Evidence is beginning to accrue to the effect that some distinctive processing features of simple reactions may be mediated by activity in the frontal lobes.

This comparative study explored the ability to process distance and its lateralization in humans and baboons. Using a conditional matching-to-sample procedure in a divided-field format, subjects had to decide whether or not the distance between a line and a dot belonged to a short- or a long-distance category. Experiments 1, 2, and 4 demonstrated the ability of baboons to process and categorize distances. Moreover, humans showed better distance processing for right visual field/left hemisphere presentations than for left visual field/right hemisphere (LVF-RH) displays (Experiments 1-2). The same bias was found in baboons (Experiment 1), but in a weaker way. In Experiment 3, naive human individuals were tested and the difficulty of the discrimination was enhanced. There was a LVF-RH advantage which vanished with practice. Results are discussed by referring to theories (i.e., Kosslyn, 1987) of visuospatial processing for coordinate and categorical judgments.
Twenty young (20.5 years) and 20 middle-aged academics (57.2 years) performed a priming-recall task which was presented in three blocks. In each block, participants read 40 word pairs after which a recall task had to be carried out. Half of the word pairs were highly associated while the others were low associated. Targets showed the N400 of the middle-aged group to be both delayed and smaller in amplitude for low-associated items. N400 of primes, however, showed no age-related latency difference but was smaller for the middle-aged group due to a positive shift. It is argued that this shift possibly indicates age differences in semantic activation or buildup of context. A reanalysis showed individual differences in word pair processing to depend on recall performance. In general, high recallers were found to show a much larger differentiation between low- and high-associated targets. This resulted from a much larger N400 component elicited by low-associated targets and a more positive ERP in the N400-region for the high-associated targets. It is suggested that the middle-aged subjects activated the expected target word to a level at least equivalent to the younger subjects, but that the activated network itself was larger/less selective particularly in subjects showing a low recall.
In this paper we examine the tendency for agrammatic aphasics to make thematic reversal errors in comprehension, e.g., a tendency for English-speaking agrammatics to assign a preposed object the subject role. Although this tendency has been argued to follow from either a linear (Grodzinsky, 1995) or a directionality (Hagiwara &amp; Caplan, 1990) strategy, we show that such proposals can, at best, function as language-particular strategies. We examine data from English, Japanese, German and Dutch, and propose a Structural Prominence Hypothesis which captures the following cross-linguistic generalization: thematic reversal errors result from a tendency to assign thematic roles based on the relative structural prominence of the candidate NPs.
Recommendations from a workshop on Space Neuroscience Research held in Paris on April 22-24, 1997 are summarized. Research areas include the autonomic nervous system, development and neurobiology, posture and movement, visual perception, vestibular function, cognition, and human factors. Long-term neuroscience research studies are being planned for the International Space Station. Experiments in microgravity should be accompanied by appropriate, ground-based research on the effects of gravity.

The centripetal force generated by a rotating space vehicle is a potential source of artificial gravity. Minimizing the cost of such a vehicle dictates using the smallest radius and highest rotation rate possible, but head movements made at high rotation rates generate disorienting, nauseogenic cross-coupled semicircular canal stimulation. Early studies suggested 3 or 4 rpm as the highest rate at which humans could adapt to this vestibular stimulus. These studies neglected the concomitant Coriolis force actions on the head/neck system. We assessed non-vestibular Coriolis effects by measuring arm and leg movements made in the center of a rotating room turning at 10 rpm and found that movement endpoints and trajectories are initially deviated; however, subjects readily adapt with 10-20 additional movements, even without seeing their errors. Equilibrium point theories of motor control errantly predict that Coriolis forces will not cause movement endpoint errors so that subjects will not have to adapt their reaching movements during rotation. Adaptation of movement trajectory acquired during Coriolis force perturbations of one arm transfers to the unexposed arm but there is no intermanual transfer of endpoint adaptation indicating that neuromotor representations of movement endpoint and trajectory are separable and can adapt independently, also contradictory to equilibrium point theories. Touching a surface at the end of reaching movements is required for complete endpoint adaptation in darkness but trajectory adapts completely with or without terminal contact. We have also made the first kinematic measurements of unconstrained head movements during rotation, these movements show rapid adaptation to Coriolis force perturbations. Our results point to methods for achieving full compensation for rotation up to 10 rpm.
This article summarizes a variety of newly published findings obtained by the Neuroscience Laboratory, Johnson Space Center, and attempts to place this work within a historical framework of previous results on posture, locomotion, motion sickness, and perceptual responses that have been observed in conjunction with space flight. In this context, we have taken the view that correct transduction and integration of signals from all sensory systems is essential to maintaining stable vision, postural and locomotor control, and eye-hand coordination as components of spatial orientation. The plasticity of the human central nervous system allows individuals to adapt to altered stimulus conditions encountered in a microgravity environment. However, until some level of adaptation is achieved, astronauts and cosmonauts often experience space motion sickness, disturbances in motion control and eye-hand coordination, unstable vision, and illusory motion of the self, the visual scene, or both. Many of the same types of disturbances encountered in space flight reappear immediately after crew members return to earth. The magnitude of these neurosensory, sensory-motor and perceptual disturbances, and the time needed to recover from them, tend to vary as a function of mission duration and the space travelers prior experience with the stimulus rearrangement of space flight. To adequately chart the development of neurosensory changes associated with space flight, we recommend development of enhanced eye movement systems and body position measurement. We also advocate the use of a human small radius centrifuge as both a research tool and as a means of providing on-orbit countermeasures that will lessen the impact of living for long periods of time with out exposure to altering gravito-inertial forces.
Even after short spaceflights, most astronauts experience at least some postflight reduction of orthostatic tolerance; this problem is severe in some subjects. The mechanisms leading to postflight orthostatic intolerance are not well-established, but have traditionally been thought to include the following: changes in leg hemodynamics, alterations in baroreceptor reflex gain, decreases in exercise tolerance and aerobic fitness, hypovolemia, and altered sensitivity of beta-adrenergic receptors in the periphery. Recent studies have demonstrated that signals from vestibular otolith organs play an important role in regulating blood pressure during changes in posture in a 1-g environment. Because spaceflight results in plastic changes in the vestibular otolith organs and in the processing of inputs from otolith receptors, it is possible that another contributing factor to postflight orthostatic hypotension is alterations in the gain of vestibular influences on cardiovascular control. Preliminary data support this hypothesis, although controlled studies will be required to determine the relationship between changes in the vestibular system and orthostatic hypotension following exposure to microgravity.
While there have been few documented permanent neurological changes resulting from space travel, there is a growing literature which suggests that neural plasticity sometimes occurs within peripheral and central vestibular pathways during and following spaceflight. This plasticity probably has adaptive value within the context of the space environment, but it can be maladaptive upon return to the terrestrial environment. Fortunately, the maladaptive responses resulting from neuronal plasticity diminish following return to earth. However, the literature suggests that the longer the space travel, the more difficult the readaptation. With the possibility of extended space voyages and extended stays on board the international space station, it seems worthwhile to review examples of plastic vestibular responses and changes in the underlying neural substrates. Studies and facilities needed for space station investigation of plastic changes in the neural substrates are suggested.
Electrocorticographic recordings were taken from the posterior parietal cortical area in monkeys performing a variety of tasks on ground and in space flight. The question addressed here was whether ECoG analysis would be a reliable index of attention to the learned task. It is shown that measuring the instantaneous frequency, rather than instrumentally evaluating the spectral content of the ECoG, may provide useful information on the attentional states of the animals. Investigations on Rhesus performed in Paris provided a useful database to evaluate the more complex results obtained in the Russian experiments with space flights, during which, according to the ECoG marker, some attentional disorders occurred. It is not unreasonable to envisage using similar evaluation in the scalp EEG in human flights in the future.
The timing, molecular basis, and morphophysiological and behavioral consequences of the interaction between external environment and the internal genetic pool that shapes the nervous system over a lifetime remain important questions in basic neuroscientific research. Space station offers the opportunity to study this interaction over several life cycles in a variety of organisms. This short review considers past work in altered gravity, particularly on the vestibular system, as the basis for proposing future research on space station, and discusses the equipment necessary to achieve goals. It is stressed that, in keeping with the international investment being made in this research endeavor, both the questions asked and the technologies to be developed should be bold. Advantage must be taken of this unique research environment to expand the frontiers of neuroscience.
The adaptability of the developing nervous system to environmental influences and the mechanisms underlying this plasticity has recently become a subject of interest in space neuroscience. Ground studies on neonatal rats using the tail suspension model of weightlessness have shown that the force of gravity clearly influences the events underlying the postnatal development of motor function. These effects depend on the age of the animal, duration of the perturbation and the motor function studied. A nine-day flight study has shown that a dam and neonates can develop under conditions of space flight. The motor function of the flight animals after landing was consistent with that seen in the tail suspension studies, being marked by limb joint extension. However, there were expected differences due to: (1) the unloading of the vestibular system in flight, which did not occur in the ground-based experiments; (2) differences between flight and suspension durations; and (3) the inability to evaluate motor function during the flight. The next step is to conduct experiments in space with the flexibility and rigor that is now limited to ground studies: an opportunity offered by the International Space Station.
We measured cell death in the retinas of embryonic and adult teleost fish using TUNEL staining. Following a wave of cell birth during embryogenesis that generates all retinal cell types except rods, cell death occurs in all three nuclear layers. The lack of a corresponding pattern of cell death in the growing adult margin suggests different roles for death during embryogenesis and adult neurogenesis.
Hypothermia is often employed as an anesthetic for manipulations of neonatal animals. We previously reported [J. Nuez, J.M. Juraska, The effect of neonatal cryoanesthesia on the gross size of the splenium of the corpus callosum, Dev. Psychobiol. 30 (1997) 259; J. Nuez, J.M. Juraska, The size of the splenium of the rat corpus callosum: influence of hormones, sex ratio and neonatal cryoanesthesia, Dev. Psychobiol., in press.] that the area of the splenium of the adult rat corpus callosum negatively correlated with the time neonatal pups spent in the cold. In the present study, we examined the effect of exposure to neonatal hypothermia (0, 15, 30 and 60 min at 4 degreesC, within 2 h of birth) on the thickness and volume of the binocular (Oc1B) and monocular (Oc1M) fields of the adult rat visual cortex. The number of neurons and glia in layer 2/3 in these areas was also assessed in the 0 and 60 min cold-exposed groups. Cryoanesthesia significantly decreased the length, thickness, volume and number of neurons and glia in both Oc1M and Oc1B. We also observed significant effects of cold exposure on the thickness of individual cortical layers, with some layers affected more than others after differential exposure times. Sex differences (males greater than females) were observed in a number of measures after varying amounts of time in cold and in the absence of cold exposure, in confirmation of previous work from our lab [S.N.M. Reid, J.M. Juraska, Sex differences in the gross size of the rat neocortex, J. Comp. Neurol. 321 (1992) 442-447; S.N.M. Reid, J.M. Juraska, Sex differences in neuron number in the binocular area of the rat visual cortex, J. Comp. Neurol. 321 (1992) 448-455.]. The present study points to the potential confound of using cryoanesthesia on neonatal animals to study cortical structure or function.
We previously demonstrated that Caspase-3 is highly expressed in dorsal root ganglia and trigeminal ganglia of mouse embryos [T. Mukasa, K. Urase, Y.M. Momoi, I. Kimura, T. Momoi, Specific expression of CPP32 in sensory neurons of mouse embryos and activation of CPP32 in the apoptosis induced by a withdrawal of NGF, Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun., 231 (1997) 770-774.]. Since, however, Caspases are processed into active form during apoptosis, it is difficult to examine the involvement of activated Caspases in naturally occurring cell death during development by immunohistochemical staining or in situ hybridization method. We prepared a cleavage site-directed antiserum against Caspase-3 (anti-p20/17). This antiserum reacted with fragment (p20/17) of Caspase-3, but not proCaspase-3 (p32), proCaspase-7 (p34) and its cleaved fragment (p24). We examined the relationship between the activation of Caspase-3 and the appearance of the naturally occurring apoptotic cells in the nervous system during development. In the trigeminal ganglia and dorsal root ganglia, the expression of Caspase-3 mRNA was maximal before the appearance of p20/17-positive cells and apoptotic cells. In the mouse brain, many p20/17-positive cells and apoptotic cells were observed in the neuroepithelium in the early developmental stages, but very few p20/17-positive cells were detected in postmitotic neurons in the cerebral cortex although Caspase-3 mRNA was expressed highly. Caspase-3 is activated mainly during apoptosis of neuroepithelial cells in the early developmental stages but not of mature neurons at postnatal stages.
Immune responses, including natural immunity (NI), potentiate the antitumor effects of chemotherapy. Since interferons and interleukin-2 (IL-2) augment NI, a pilot study was conducted to assess the tolerability and the effects on host immunity of adjuvant chemotherapy associated with IL-2 + interferon alpha (IFN) in breast cancer patients after surgery. Ten patients underwent alternating 28-day cycles of chemoimmunotherapy [cyclophosphamide + methotrexate + 5-fluorouracil (CMF, days 1, 8) + IL-2 (days 15 19) + IFN (day 22)] and chemotherapy alone (CMF). With this regimen each patient was considered to be a reasonable &quot;control&quot; of herself. Blood cell count and natural killer cell activity (NKA) were tested on days 1, 8, 15, 22, and 23. Preliminary in vitro studies indicated that IL-2 or IFN antagonized the severe inhibition of NKA induced by hydroxy-peroxy-cyclophosphamide (in vitro active derivative of cyclophosphamide), alone or associated with methotrexate + 5-fluorouracil. Nine patients completed all six alternating cycles, whereas one patient proved to have metastatic lesions after four cycles. The protocol was well tolerated, although leukopenia (CMF alone) and leukopenia with fever and moderate or minimal flu-like symptoms (CMF + IL-2 + IFN) were generally observed. Treatment with IL-2 facilitated complete recovery of white cell counts and NKA after the nadir on day 15. In conclusion, the present protocol appears to be well tolerated and amenable to administration on an outpatient basis. Therefore, further investigations should be performed to verify whether CMF + IL-2 + IFN would be superior to CMF alone for adjuvant treatment after surgery in breast cancer.
Electrotonic coupling among neurons in the vertebrate, and more specifically the mammalian, brain has now been demonstrated to exist in all major brain subdivisions and in the spinal cord. For many of these brain areas, recent studies have investigated the possibilities of modulation of that coupling by synaptically released transmitters and/or neuromodulators. Reviewed here is the evidence for coupling, the synaptically related factors that play roles in up- or downregulation of this type of intercellular interaction and, to the extent that they have been investigated, the intracellular mechanisms operative in changing the extent of coupled networks in the brain. The functional significance of coupling and its modulation is discussed for some of these areas.
A major effort in neuroscience is directed towards understanding the roles of Ca2+ signalling in the induction of synaptic plasticity. Here, we summarize the evidence concerning Ca2+ signalling, paying particular attention to CA1 excitatory synapses, and its relationship to the induction of long-term potentiation and long-term depression. We discuss the ways in which synaptic activation can elevate Ca2+ postsynaptically and how dendritic spines may act as a Ca2+ compartment which can both isolate and integrate Ca2+ signals.

Intracerebral vascular reactivity induced by the nitric oxide (NO) donor isosorbide dinitrate (IDN, 5 mg sublingually) is more major and longer-lasting in migraine patients who develop delayed headache in response to the drug. The headache is purportedly due to neuronally-mediated vascular mechanisms. Indomethacin inhibits prostaglandin synthesis, which is involved in NO generation. Indomethacin also decreases cerebral blood flow by constricting precapillary resistance vessels. In the present study, the hemodynamic effects of indomethacin were evaluated in migraine patients and healthy controls by means of transcranial Doppler monitoring. Indomethacin caused a significant decrease in mean flow velocity in the middle cerebral artery. This was an additional effect to the mean velocity decrease induced by IDN. The interactions between the two drugs suggest that their effects on cerebral hemodynamics (and pain) may be of relevance both in understanding the role of NO in migraine pathogenesis and in evaluating symptomatic treatments for migraine attacks.
Right-to-left shunt (RLS), usually due to patent foramen ovale, is a well-established risk factor for ischemic stroke in young patients, while the role of migraine as an independent factor is still debated. We evaluated 44 patients suffering from migraine with aura, and compared them with 73 patients younger than 50 with focal cerebral ischemia, and 50 controls, asymptomatic for cerebrovascular disease, and without a history of migraine. All the subjects underwent bilateral transcranial Doppler with injection of contrast medium in an antecubital vein. The test was performed during normal ventilation and during Valsalva maneuver, recording both the middle cerebral arteries and the basilar artery. Criteria for diagnosing RLS was the presence of at least 3 microbubbles within 15 s from injection. Eighteen out of 44 migraine patients (41%) showed RLS, as opposed to 8 of 50 controls (16%) (p &lt; 0.005). Twenty-six out of 73 patients with cerebral ischemia had RLS (35%). We conclude that the prevalence of RLS in patients with migraine with aura is significantly higher than in normal controls, and is similar to the prevalence of RLS in young patients with stroke. These findings could be helpful in understanding the relationship between migraine and stroke.
Dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor (DNT), a benign neoplasm, is now a well recognized clinicopathological entity. We report the second case of DNT in the cerebellum occurring in a 20-year-old male presenting with ataxia. He also had Arnold-Chiari malformation of the adult type. Histologically the tumor was a &quot;simple&quot; DNT having the specific &quot;glioneuronal&quot; element, namely oligodendrocyte-like cells (OLCs), mucoid change and floating neurons (Purkinje cells). A striking feature was the perpendicular arrangement of the neuropil columns extending from the pial surface to white matter similar to those seen in supratentorial examples. On immunstaining some of the OLCs were positive for synaptophysin and negative for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), glucocerebroside, tau and MAP-2. The neuropil was synaptophysin-positive and focally positive for MAP-2 and GFAP as well. The Purkinje cells were morphologically normal but malaligned and were positive for phosphorylated neurofilament suggesting secondary dysplastic changes. A transition of the lesion into relatively normal cerebellum preserving the folial architecture was observed. The histological and immunochemical features of the DNT in cerebellum suggests its possible origin from the pluripotential external granular layer.
The induction of a hepatic pleiotropic response, including increase in liver/body weight ratio, induction of hepatic CYP2B and CYP3A protein and catalytic activity, and hepatic microsomal epoxide hydration activity, was investigated in male cotton rats (Sigmodon hispidus) administered graded dietary concentrations (0-1500 ppm) of phenobarbital (PB) for 14 days. A dose-dependent induction of each endpoint was observed, although plateaus in the various dose-response curves were not obtained, and ED50 values (PB concentrations associated with half-maximal responses) for the various endpoints were not able to be calculated. A maximal 1.31-fold increase, compared to the control value, in live/body weight ratio was observed, while microsomal epoxide hydration activity was increased as much as 3.6-fold by PB administration. Pentoxy- and benzyloxyresorufin O-dealkylation and testosterone 16 beta-hydroxylation activities (considered to be relatively selective for CYP2B in the Norway rat (Rattus norvegicus)), were induced maximally less than five-fold. Testosterone 6 beta-hydroxylation (considered to be relatively selective for CYP3A in R. norvegicus) was induced maximally less than two-fold. Maximal induction of 7-ethoxy-4-trifluoromethyl-coumarin O-deethylation was 18-fold, compared to the control rate. Western blotting studies indicated that hepatic microsomal proteins immunoreactive with polyclonal antisera to R. norvegicus CYP2B1 or CYP3A1 were induced, in a dose-responsive manner, by PB in the cotton rats. These results indicate that the cotton rat responds to PB treatment with a coordinate pleiotropic response similar to that displayed by R. norvegicus, although the substrate specificity of the induced proteins appears to differ between the two rodent species.
The Engrailed-1 gene, En1, a murine homologue of the Drosophila homeobox gene engrailed (en), is required for midbrain and cerebellum development and dorsal/ventral patterning of the limbs. In Drosophila, en is involved in regulating a number of key patterning processes including segmentation of the epidermis. An important question is whether, during evolution, the biochemical properties of En proteins have been conserved, revealing a common underlying molecular mechanism to their diverse developmental activities. To address this question, we have replaced the coding sequences of En1 with Drosophila en. Mice expressing Drosophila en in place of En1 have a near complete rescue of the lethal En1 mutant brain defect and most skeletal abnormalities. In contrast, expression of Drosophila en in the embryonic limbs of En1 mutants does not lead to repression of Wnt7a in the embryonic ventral ectoderm or full rescue of the embryonic dorsal/ventral patterning defects. Furthermore, neither En2 nor en rescue the postnatal limb abnormalities that develop in rare En1 null mutants that survive. These studies demonstrate that the biochemical activity utilized in mouse to mediate brain development has been retained by Engrailed proteins across the phyla, and indicate that during evolution vertebrate En proteins have acquired two unique functions during embryonic and postnatal limb development and that only En1 can function postnatally.
Neural crest cells of vertebrate embryos disperse on distinct pathways and produce different derivatives in specific embryonic locations. In the trunk of avian embryos, crest-derived cells that initially migrate on the lateral pathway, between epidermal ectoderm and somite, produce melanocytes but no neuronal derivatives. Although we found that melanocyte precursors are specified before they disperse on the lateral pathway, we also observed that a few crest-derived neuronal cells are briefly present on the same pathway. Here, we show that neuronal cells are removed by an episode of apoptosis. These observations suggest that localized environmental factor(s) affect the distribution of fate-restricted crest derivatives and function as a 'proof-reading mechanism' to remove 'ectopic' crest-derived cells.
The Bicoid (Bcd) morphogen establishes the head and thorax of the Drosophila embryo. Bcd activates the transcription of identified target genes in the thoracic segments, but its mechanism of action in the head remains poorly understood. It has been proposed that Bcd directly activates the cephalic gap genes, which are the first zygotic genes to be expressed in the head primordium. It has also been suggested that the affinity of Bcd-binding sites in the promoters of Bcd target genes determines the posterior extent of their expression (the Gene X model). However, both these hypotheses remain untested. Here, we show that a small regulatory region upstream of the cephalic gap gene orthodenticle (otd) is sufficient to recapitulate early otd expression in the head primordium. This region contains two control elements, each capable of driving otd-like expression. The first element has consensus Bcd target sites that bind Bcd in vitro and are necessary for head-specific expression. As predicted by the Gene X model, this element has a relatively low affinity for Bcd. Surprisingly, the second regulatory element has no Bcd sites. Instead, it contains a repeated sequence motif similar to a regulatory element found in the promoters of otd-related genes in vertebrates. Our study is the first demonstration that a cephalic gap gene is directly regulated by Bcd. However, it also shows that zygotic gene expression can be targeted to the head primordium without direct Bcd regulation.
Stroke is a very common medical emergency that, until recently, had no specific treatment. Following the results of several major trials (including 2 'mega-trials'), aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid) can be recommended for the majority of patients with acute ischaemic stroke. While the benefit of aspirin is only modest, i.e. an increase of 11 per 1000 long term independent survivors, the public health benefit in the world will be substantial as this treatment could be given to millions of patients with acute ischaemic stroke each year. Heparin is associated with a reduction in early recurrent ischaemic stroke, but there is no net benefit because of a similar sized excess of recurrent haemorrhagic stroke (even for those in atrial fibrillation). Thrombolytic therapy has not been so widely tested and the results of the small trials to date have yielded conflicting results. The only positive publication to date (comprised of 2 related trials) evaluated the recombinant tissue plasminogen activator alteplase, but such treatment is probably only indicated for highly selected patients. Further trials are almost certainly required and it would be unwise to change clinical practice based on the current evidence. No other stroke treatments have been shown to be beneficial, and much larger trials will be required to confirm or refute possible moderate benefits of treatment. A well organised stroke service and participation in clinical trials will improve the future care of patients with acute ischaemic stroke.
We demonstrated the developmental characteristics of vessel density in the human brain, using an antibody against CD31, which specifically reacts with endothelium. In the cerebral cortex and subcortical white matter, the vessel density was low at 16-28 weeks of gestation (GW), and then increased after 36 GW. In the deep white matter, the vessel density was high in the middle fetal period (16-24 GW), and then transiently decreased at 28-36 GW, and increasing after 39 GW. In the putamen, the vessel density was high at 20-21 GW, remained high throughout the fetal period, and then rapidly increased after birth. In the basis pontis, the number of vessels increased after 28 GW, and after 32 GW was greater than in the pontine tegmentum. These alterations in vessel density may correlate with the pathogenesis of perinatal brain injury. Thus, the transient decrease of vessel density in the deep white matter may predispose to periventricular leukomalacia in cerebral hypoperfusion. Similarly, the well-developed vascularity in the basis pontis may predispose its relatively immature neurons to neuron necrosis produced by free radical injury.


Mint 1 and 2 are proteins that bind to munc18-1, an essential component of the synaptic vesicle fusion machinery, and are detectably expressed only in neurons [Okamoto and Sdhof, J. Biol. Chem. 272, 31459-31464 (1997)]. Mint 1 and 2 are composed of a variable N-terminal region that includes a conserved munc18-1-binding site, and a constant C-terminal region that contains one PTB and two PDZ domains. We have now identified a third mint isoform, mint 3. Similar to mint 1 and 2, the C-terminal half of mint 3 is composed of one PTB domain and two PDZ domains. However, in contrast to mint 1 and 2, mint 3 lacks an N-terminal munc18-binding domain and does not interact with munc18-1 in yeast two-hybrid assays. Mint 3 is ubiquitously expressed in all tissues, with lowest levels in brain and testis whereas mint 1 and 2 appear to be brain-specific. Our data suggest that mints form a diverse family of proteins with specialized neuronal and ubiquitous isoforms.
The present study was designed to evaluate the relationship between reinstatement of drug-seeking behaviour following long-term extinction of intravenous (i.v.) drug self-administration (an animal model for craving) and long-term behavioural sensitization. Rats were allowed to self-administer heroin (50 microg/kg per inj., 14 daily sessions), cocaine (500 microg/kg per inj., 10 daily sessions) or saline. Following a 3-week extinction period, reinstatement tests were performed to evaluate priming effects of amphetamine, cocaine and heroin on nonreinforced drug-seeking behaviour. In addition, the occurrence of long-term behavioural sensitization in rats with a history of heroin or cocaine self-administration was determined. Heroin-seeking behaviour was reinstated by heroin (0.25 mg/kg), amphetamine (1.0 mg/kg) and cocaine (10 mg/kg). In addition, animals with a history of heroin self-administration displayed locomotor sensitization to both heroin and amphetamine. Cocaine-seeking behaviour was reinstated by cocaine and amphetamine, but not by heroin. Interestingly, locomotor sensitization to amphetamine, but not heroin, was observed in animals with a history of cocaine self-administration. In other words, the induction of drug-seeking behaviour following a prolonged drug-free period was found to be associated with the expression of long-term behavioural sensitization. These data provide experimental evidence for a role of behavioural sensitization in the incentive motivation underlying drug-seeking behaviour. If drug hyperresponsiveness would indeed be a crucial factor in drug-induced craving in human addicts, pharmacological readjustment of the neuroadaptations underlying drug sensitization may prevent relapse to drug use long after detoxification.
Acute challenge with clozapine and haloperidol produce different anatomical patterns of c-fos expression in the forebrain. The pharmacological profile of atypical antipsychotics suggests that serotonin might contribute to the unique therapeutic benefits of these drugs. In order to test this possibility, we examined the abilities of 5-HT1A and 5-HT2A/2c agonists to modify the pattern of c-fos expression induced by haloperidol and clozapine. Various groups of rats were pretreated with either saline, DOI, 8-OH-DPAT, and 8-OH-DPAT + DOI 30 min prior to haloperidol or clozapine administration. Rats were killed 90 min after antipsychotic administration. In saline-pretreated rats, haloperidol produced intense Fos-LI in all four striatal quadrants while the effect of clozapine was restricted to the medial part of the striatum. Prior administration of 8-OH-DPAT significantly reduced haloperidol-induced Fos-LI in all four striatal quadrants while DOI and 8-OHDPAT + DOI significantly reduced Fos-LI only in dorso- and ventrolateral quadrants. In the nucleus accumbens, haloperidol induced intense Fos-LI in the core and the shell regions whereas clozapine induced c-fos expression only in the shell. Pretreatment with 8-OHDPAT in haloperidol treated rats reduced Fos-LI in the core region yielding to a c-fos pattern similar to that induced by clozapine. In the prefrontal cortex of saline-pretreated rats, haloperidol produced a moderate c-fos expression compared with the intense expression produced by clozapine. Pretreatment with serotonin agonists before haloperidol brought the number of FOS-positive neurons to the same level as in clozapine treated rats. These results show the ability of 5-HT agonists to transform the typical pattern of c-fos expression induced by haloperidol into a pattern resembling that of clozapine.
The effect of two nitric oxide (NO) donors, SIN-1 and DEA/NO, as well as of the inactive SIN-1 derivative molsidomin, was studied on locus coeruleus (LC) neurons in a slice preparation using intracellular recordings. In addition, the effect of the guanylate cyclase inhibitor ODQ was analysed. Furthermore, the effect of NO donors on cyclic guanosine monophosphate (GMP) levels in the LC was studied using the indirect immunofluorescence technique, and the expression of soluble guanylyl cyclase with in situ hybridization. In 36 of 66 LC neurons extracellular application of SIN-1 and DEA/NO caused a hyperpolarization and a decrease in apparent input resistance. In almost 20% of neurons SIN-1 increased the firing rate. No effect could be recorded with the brain-inactive SIN-1 derivative molsidomin. The membrane permeable cGMP analogue 8-bromo-cGMP imitated the action of SIN-1. The hyperpolarizing effect of SIN-1 and DEA/NO was attenuated by preincubation with the guanylyl cyclase inhibitor ODQ. The immunohistochemical analysis revealed lack of cGMP immunostaining in non-stimulated slices, whereas SIN-1 dramatically increased this staining in about 40% of the LC neurons, and these neurons were all tyrosine hydroxylase positive, that is noradrenergic. A large proportion of the LC neurons expressed soluble guanylyl cyclase mRNA. The present and previous results suggest that NO, released from a small number of non-noradrenergic neurons in the LC, mainly has an inhibitory influence on many noradrenergic neurons, by upregulating cGMP levels via stimulation of soluble guanylyl cyclase. As nitric oxide synthase is present only in a small number of non-noradrenergic neurons (Xu et al., 1994), a few neurons may influence a large population of noradrenergic LC neurons, which in turn may control activity in many regions of the central nervous system.
MALDI-ToF MS (matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time of flight mass spectrometry) has become a fast, reliable and sensitive technique for the identification of neuropeptides in biological tissues. Here, we applied this technique to identified neurons of the cardioregulatory network in the snail Lymnaea that express the FMRFamide gene. This enabled us to study the complex processing of the FMRFamide gene at the level of single identified neurons. In the CNS of Lymnaea, FMRFamide-like and additional peptides are encoded by a common, multiexon gene. Alternate mRNA splicing of the FMRFamide gene leads to the production of two different mRNAs. Type 1 mRNA (exon II) encodes for the tetrapeptides (FLRF/FMRFamide), whereas Type 2 (exons III-V) encodes for the heptapeptides (SDPFLRFamide/GDPFLRFamide). Previous in situ hybridization and immunocytochemical studies indicated that these two transcripts are expressed in the CNS neurons of Lymnaea in a differential and mutually exclusive manner. Two single identified neurons of the cardiorespiratory network, the Ehe neuron and the visceral white interneuron (VWI), were known to express the FMRFamide gene (Ehe, type 1 mRNA; VWI, type 2 mRNA). MALDI-ToF MS analysis of these neurons and other neurons expressing the FMRFamide gene confirmed the mutually exclusive expression of the distinct sets of peptides encoded on the two transcripts and revealed the pattern of post-translational processing of both protein precursors. From the gene sequence it was predicted that 16 final peptide products from the two precursor proteins could possibly exist. We showed that most of these peptides were indeed present in the identified neurons (13) while others were not (three), suggesting that not all of the potential cleavage sites within the two precursors are utilized. In this way, the neuronal expression of the full range of the peptide products resulting from alternative mRNA splicing was revealed for the first time.
Neuropeptide Y is an abundant and physiologically important peptide in vertebrates having effects on food intake, sexual behaviour, blood pressure and circadian rhythms. Neuropeptide Y homologues have been found in invertebrates, where they are very likely to play similar, important roles. Although five neuropeptide Y-receptor subtypes have been identified in mammals, none has been reported from invertebrates. Here we describe the cloning of a neuropeptide Y-receptor from the brain of the snail Lymnaea stagnalis. The identity of the receptor was deduced by expressing the neuropeptide Y-receptor-encoding cDNA in Chinese Hamster Ovary cells, which were subsequently challenged with size-fractionated Lymnaea brain extracts. An active peptide, selected on the basis of its ability to induce changes in cAMP levels, was purified to homogeneity, analysed by mass spectrometry and amino acid sequence determination, and turned out to be a Lymnaea homologue of neuropeptide Y.
We have studied in the rat the effects of acute subcutaneous injection of psychotomimetics including methamphetamine (MAP), cocaine and phencyclidine (PCP) on the expression of a brain plasticity-related molecule, tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) mRNA, using non-radioactive in situ hybridization histochemistry. In addition to the constitutive expression of tPA mRNA in cerebellar Purkinje cells, ventricular ependymal cells and meningeal blood vessel-associated cells, MAP (1-4 mg/kg), cocaine (30 mg/kg) and PCP (1.25-5 mg/kg) caused a transient and dose-dependent induction of the transcript with its peak at 3 h postinjection in a group of neurons of the medial and insular prefrontal cortices, and the piriform cortex. Another indirect dopamine agonist nomifensine (20-40 mg/kg) mimicked the tPA mRNA induction in the prefrontal cortical areas. Moreover, MAP induction of tPA mRNA was markedly inhibited by pretreatment with a D1 (R(+)-SCH23390: R(+)-7-chloro-8-hydroxy-3-methyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetra-hydro-1H-3-be nza zepine hydrochloride) or a D2 (haloperidol) dopamine receptor-preferring antagonist. Intramedial striatum, but not intrathalamic, application of a fluorescent tracer, fluorogold, retrogradely labelled the cortical cells expressing tPA mRNA. The present results suggest that acute injections of the above psychotomimetic drugs may induce tPA mRNA in a group of the prefrontal cortical neurons that project to the medial striatum. This tPA mRNA expression may be due to the activation of the dopamine neurotransmission. Because it is well documented that single or repeated administration of methamphetamine, cocaine and PCP produces enduring changes in responses to these drugs in humans and experimental animals (e.g. behavioural sensitization), the psychotomimetic-induction of tPA mRNA could be implicated in an initial step in the plastic rearrangements in the neuronal circuits underlying long-lasting changes in behavioural expression.
The whole-cell configuration of the patch clamp technique was used to record miniature gamma-aminobutyric acidA (GABAA) receptor-mediated currents (in tetrodotoxin, 1 microM and kynurenic acid 1 mM) from CA3 pyramidal cells in thin hippocampal slices obtained from postnatal (P) day (P6-9) old rats. Switching from a Ca2+-containing to a nominally Ca2+-free medium (in which Ca2+ was substituted with Mg2+, in the presence or in the absence of 100 microM EGTA) did not change significantly the frequency or amplitude of miniature events. Superfusion of thapsigargin induced a concentration-dependent increase in frequency but not in amplitude of tetrodotoxin-resistant currents that lasted for the entire period of drug application. Mean frequency ratio (thapsigargin 10 microM over control) was 1.8+/-0.5, (n = 9). In nominally Ca2+-free solutions thapsigargin was ineffective. When bath applied, caffeine (10 mM), reversibly reduced the amplitude of miniature postsynaptic currents whereas, if applied by brief pressure pulses, it produced an increase in frequency but not in amplitude of spontaneous GABAergic currents. Superfusion of caffeine (10 mM) reversibly reduced the amplitude of the current induced by GABA (100 microM) indicating a clear postsynaptic effect on GABAA receptor. Superfusion of ryanodine (30 microM), in the majority of the cells (n = 7) did not significantly modify the amplitude or frequency of miniature events. In two of nine cells it induced a transient increase in frequency of miniature postsynaptic currents. These results indicate that in neonatal hippocampal neurons, mobilization of calcium from caffeine-ryanodine-sensitive stores facilitates GABA release.
The effect of metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) agonists and antagonists on the spinal cord network underlying locomotion in the lamprey has been analysed. The specific group I mGluR agonist (R,S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG) and the broad-spectrum mGluR agonist (1S,3R)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (1S,3R-ACPD) both increased the burst frequency of N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA)-induced fictive locomotion and depolarized grey matter neurons. The burst frequency increase induced by the mGluR agonists was counteracted by the mGluR antagonists (+)-alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine ((+)-MCPG), cyclopropan[b]chromen-1a-carboxylic acid ethylester (CPCCOEt) and (RS)-1-aminoindan-1,5-dicarboxylic acid (AIDA). Application of CPCCOEt alone reduced the locomotor burst frequency, indicating that mGluRs are endogenously activated during fictive locomotion. The mGluR antagonist CPCCOEt had no effect on NMDA-, or (S)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoazolepropionic acid (AMPA)-induced depolarizations. The mGluR agonists 1S,3R-ACPD and DHPG increased the amplitude of NMDA-induced depolarizations, a mechanism which could account for the increase in burst frequency. The group III mGluR agonist L-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid reduced intraspinal synaptic transmission and burst frequency.
Can acute inactivation of the inferior olive block associative learning? We anaesthetized the inferior olive with lidocaine while rabbits simultaneously: (i) performed conditioned nictitating membrane responses to a flashing light to which they had already been trained; and (ii) underwent their first experience with classical conditioning of the same response to a tone. Inactivation of the inferior olive immediately and reversibly abolished the performance of conditioned responses and prevented learning during rabbits' initial conditioning with a tone-conditioned stimulus. When olivary function was restored, rabbits showed no signs of having learned under olivary anaesthesia. The experiment demonstrates that an acute disruption in olivary function can block learning, in addition to severely degrading motor control. The results are interpreted to indicate the importance of the inferior olive in optimizing learning, perhaps through a general role in regulating temporal processing.
Is there a role for the inferior olive in learning? Novel paradigms of conditioning involving tongue protrusion were developed using the rat to test whether: (a) the indole alkaloid harmaline blocks associative learning via actions within the inferior olive, and (b) the inferior olive is required for associative and motor learning. Harmaline blocked associative learning as measured by the absence of conditioned responses to a tone over six daily sessions of conditioning and the absence of retention without harmaline. Harmaline's effect on associative learning was completely blocked by prior removal of the inferior olive with 3-acetylpyridine. Rats whose inferior olives were chronically lesioned showed normal associative learning, normal associative memory, and could learn to modify tongue protrusion via a motor learning paradigm involving response shaping. Removal of the inferior olive degraded the performance of the licking motor system by increasing the latency of conditioned tongue protrusions and by increasing the temporal variability of rhythmic licking elicited by intraoral water. The experiments raise doubt as to whether the inferior olive encodes memory in the cerebellum but demonstrate that the inferior olive is essential for the temporal precision of movement. The results indicate that harmaline's antilearning action is produced by its ability to exaggerate the normal propensity of olivary neurons to fire rhythmically, a process that must be constrained under physiological conditions for normal learning to occur. It is concluded that there may be an important role for the rhythmic activity of inferior olivary neurons in the temporal processes that underlie both motor control and learning.

One of the fundamental goals of the modern field of neuroscience is to understand how neuronal activity gives rise to higher cortical function. However, to bridge the gap between neurobiology and behavior, we must understand higher cortical functions at the behavioral level at least as well as we have come to understand neurobiological processes at the cellular and molecular levels. This is certainly the case in the study of speech processing, where critical studies of behavioral dysfunction have provided key insights into the basic neurobiological mechanisms relevant to speech perception and production. Much of this progress derives from a detailed analysis of the sensory, perceptual, cognitive, and motor abilities of children who fail to acquire speech, language, and reading skills normally within the context of otherwise normal development. Current research now shows that a dysfunction in normal phonological processing, which is critical to the development of oral and written language, may derive, at least in part, from difficulties in perceiving and producing basic sensory-motor information in rapid succession--within tens of ms (see Tallal et al. 1993a for a review). There is now substantial evidence supporting the hypothesis that basic temporal integration processes play a fundamental role in establishing neural representations for the units of speech (phonemes), which must be segmented from the (continuous) speech stream and combined to form words, in order for the normal development of oral and written language to proceed. Results from magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and positron emission tomography (PET) studies, as well as studies of behavioral performance in normal and language impaired children and adults, will be reviewed to support the view that the integration of rapidly changing successive acoustic events plays a primary role in phonological development and disorders. Finally, remediation studies based on this research, coupled with neuroplasticity research, will be presented.
Gene targeting using homologous recombination in embryonic stem (ES) cells offers unprecedented precision with which one may manipulate single genes and investigate the in vivo effects of defined mutations in the mouse. Geneticists argue that this technique abrogates the lack of highly specific pharmacological tools in the study of brain function and behavior. However, by now it has become clear that gene targeting has some limitations too. One problem is spatial and temporal specificity of the generated mutation, which may appear in multiple brain regions or even in other organs and may also be present throughout development, giving rise to complex, secondary phenotypical alterations. This may be a disadvantage in the functional analysis of a number of genes associated with learning and memory processes. For example, several proteins, including neurotrophins--cell-adhesion molecules--and protein kinases, that play a significant developmental role have recently been suggested to be also involved in neural and behavioral plasticity. Knocking out genes of such proteins may lead to developmental alterations or even embryonic lethality in the mouse, making it difficult to study their function in neural plasticity, learning, and memory. Therefore, alternative strategies to gene targeting may be needed. Here, we suggest a potentially useful in vivo strategy based on systemic application of immunoadhesins, genetically engineered fusion proteins possessing the Fc portion of the human IgG molecule and, for example, a binding domain of a receptor of interest. These proteins are stable in vivo and exhibit high binding specificity and affinity for the endogenous ligand of the receptor, but lack the ability to signal. Thus, if delivered to the brain, immunoadhesins may specifically block signalling of the receptor of interest. Using osmotic minipumps, the protein can be infused in a localized region of the brain for a specified period of time (days or weeks). Thus, the location and timing of delivery are controlled. Here, we present methodological details of this novel approach and argue that infusion of immunoadhesins will be useful for studying the role particular receptors play in behavioral and neural plasticity.
Participants discriminated between tripelennamine and placebo in experiments differing in instructional set. In 1 experiment (SED), participants were told that 1 of the 2 drugs was more sedative-like, and during the other (STIM), 1 was more stimulant-like. During generalization tests, participants received diazepam or d-amphetamine. Percent correct was the same in both experiments. Tripelennamine increased sedative and decreased stimulant effects. Amphetamine and diazepam produced typical subjective effects. Some subjective effects differed across experiments with more sedative and less stimulant effects during SED than STIM. In SED and STIM, capsules were labeled 80% of the time as a sedative and stimulant, respectively. Thus, instructions designed to give expectations had no effect on discrimination and only a few changes in subjective effects. When asked to name the drug that they believed they received, labels reflected instructional set.
Protein kinase C (PKC) isoforms display different sensitivities to modulators, tissue specificities and subcellular localizations. PKCalpha increases during rabbit corneal epithelial wound healing. Here we report differential expression of PKC isoforms in the cornea of rabbits at 1, 2, 4 and 8 days during re-epithelization. Cytosolic, membrane and detergent-insoluble fractions from epithelium were analysed by Western blot using monoclonal antibodies against the different PKC isoforms. We have identified PKCalpha, gamma, epsilon, mu and iota. PKCalpha and gamma were expressed only in the cytosolic fraction, with the expression of PKCalpha markedly increasing 4 days after injury. Corneas cultured in the presence of rabbit-specific PKCalpha antisense showed a greater than 50% inhibition of wound closure, compared to controls. The PKCepsilon and mu were expressed in the soluble, as well as in the membrane fraction. Additionally, 12% of PKCmu was found attached to the detergent insoluble fraction. The expression of the membrane-bound PKCepsilon and mu isoforms decreased between 1 and 2 days following injury. Only 10% of the PKCiota expressed in corneal epithelium was membrane bound, but between 4 and 8 days after de-epithelization, the expression in this fraction increased three-fold. Our results suggest that changes in the expression and distribution within the various fractions of selective isoforms of PKC after injury could be involved in events leading to wound healing and that PKCalpha is a key modulator in rabbit corneal wound repair.
Changes in brain extracellular space (ECS) volume, composition, and geometry are a consequence of neuronal activity, of glial K+, pH, and amino acid homeostasis, and of changes in glial cell morphology, proliferation, and function. They occur as a result of repetitive neuronal activity, seizures, anoxia, injury, inflammation, and many other pathological states in the CNS, and may significantly affect signal transmission in the CNS. Activity-related or CNS damage-related cellular swelling is compensated for by ECS volume shrinkage and, as a consequence, by a decrease in the apparent diffusion coefficients (ADCs) of neuroactive substances diffusing in the ECS. Changes in cellular morphology, such as occur during aging, could also result in changes of ECS volume and geometry. We provide evidence for limited diffusion in rat cortex, corpus callosum, and hippocampus in the aging brain that correlates with changes in glial volume and the extracellular matrix. In all structures, the mean ECS volume fraction alpha (alpha = ECS volume/total tissue volume) and nonspecific uptake k' are significantly lower in aged rats (26-32 months old) than in young adult brain. Compared to young adult brain, in the aged brain we found an increase in GFAP staining and hypertrophied astrocytes with thicker processes which, in the hippocampus, lost their radial organization. The tortuosity (lambda = square root of D/ADC) was lower in the cortex and CA3 region. Immunohistochemical staining for fibronectin and chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans revealed a substantial decrease that could account for a decrease in diffusion barriers. Diffusion parameters alpha, lambda, and k' in the aging brain after cardiac arrest changed substantially faster than in the young adult brain, although the final values were not significantly different. This suggests that the smaller extracellular space during aging results in a greater susceptibility of the aging brain to anoxia/ischemia, apparently due to a faster extracellular acidosis and accumulation of K+ and toxic substances, for example, glutamate. We conclude that during aging the movement of substances is more hindered in the narrower clefts. This is partly compensated for by a decrease in the diffusion barriers that may be formed by macromolecules of the extracellular matrix. Diffusion parameters can affect the efficacy of synaptic as well as extrasynaptic transmission by a greater accumulation of substances, because they diffuse away from a source more slowly, or induce damage to nerve cells if these substances reach toxic concentrations. Diffusion parameters are also of importance in the &quot;crosstalk&quot; between synapses, which has been hypothesized to be of importance during LTP and LTD. We can, therefore, assume that the observed changes in ECS diffusion parameters during aging can contribute to functional deficits and memory loss.

During the past 15 years a variety of inflammatory proteins has been identified in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) postmortem. There is now considerable evidence that in AD the deposition of amyloid-beta (A beta) protein precedes a cascade of events that ultimately leads to a local &quot;brain inflammatory response.&quot; Here we reviewed the evidence (i) that inflammatory mechanisms can be a part of the relevant etiological factors for AD in patients with head trauma, ischemia, and Down's syndrome; (ii) that in cerebral A beta disorders the clinical symptoms are determined to a great extent by the site of inflammation; and (iii) that a brain inflammatory response can explain some poorly understood characteristics of the clinical picture, among others the susceptibility of AD patients to delirium. The present data indicate that inflammatory processes in the brain contribute to the etiology, the pathogenesis, and the clinical expression of AD.
Although the physiological role of neurotrophins in neuronal development and survival has been extensively investigated, their role in glial cell physiology remains to be elucidated. In the present study, we investigated the effects of neurotrophins on cultured microglia from newborn rat brain. All of the neurotrophins tested nerve growth factor (NGF), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), neurotrophin-3 (NT-3), and neurotrophin-4 (NT-4), increased the secretion of plasminogen and urokinase type-plasminogen activator and specific activity of acid phosphatase, but suppressed the release of constitutively-produced and lipopolysaccharide-stimulated nitric oxide (NO) from microglia. The reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, immunocytochemical staining, and Western blotting revealed that cultured microglia express Trk A, B, and C, and low-affinity NGF receptor, LNGFRp75. Neurotrophin was found to phosphorylate Trk A and B, and the neurotrophin-induced enhancement of plasminogen-secretion was suppressed by protein kinase inhibitor, K252a. Furthermore, neurotrophins caused an activation of transcription factor, NF-kappaB. These results indicate that the neurotrophin family regulate the function of microglia through Trk and/or LNGFRp75-mediated signal transduction.
The Na,K-ATPase plays an active role in glial physiology, contributing to K+ uptake as well as to the Na+ gradients used by other membrane carriers. There are multiple isoforms of Na,K-ATPase alpha and beta subunits, and different combinations result in different affinities for Na+ and K+. Isoform choice should thus influence K+ and Na+ homeostasis in astrocytes. Prior studies of astrocyte Na,K-ATPase subunit composition have produced apparently conflicting results, suggesting plasticity of gene expression. Purified flat astrocytes from the cerebral cortex and cerebellum of both mouse and rat were systematically investigated here. Using antibodies specific for the alpha1, alpha2, alpha3, beta1, beta2, and beta3 subunits, isoform level was assessed with Western blots, and cellular distribution was visualized with immunofluorescence. Although alpha1 was always expressed, differences were observed in the expression of alpha2 and beta2, subunits that can be expressed in astrocytes in vivo and in coculture with neurons. In addition, abundant alpha subunit was expressed in rat astrocytes and in mouse cerebellar astrocytes without an equivalent level of any of the known beta isoforms, suggesting that an additional beta subunit important for glia is yet to be discovered. Conditions that have been shown to increase Na,K-ATPase activity in astrocyte cultures, such as dibutyryl cAMP, high extracellular K+, and glutamate, did not specifically induce missing subunits, suggesting that cellular interactions are required to alter the ion transporter phenotype.

The basal forebrain cholinergic neurons are implicated in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer's disease (AD). The nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) have been found to be significantly afflicted in AD. To study the underlying mechanisms for dysfunction of the basal forebrain cholinergic neurons development of suitable animal models is warranted. In this study we investigated the effects of bilateral lesions of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis on nAChRs in the rat brain using the cholinergic system selective immunotoxin 192-IgG saporin and non-selective excitotoxin ibotenic acid. Changes in nAChRs were measured by 3H-cytisine and 3H-epibatidine, two ligands with different selectivity for nAChRs subtypes. In the parietal cortex of ibotenic acid lesioned rates, the choline acetyltransferase activity (ChAT) was decreased by 24% while no changes were detected in the frontal cortex or hippocampus. Similarly, a 40% decrease was observed in the number of nAChRs labelled by 3H-cytisine, but not by 3H-epibatidine, in the parietal cortex, while no changes were found in the frontal cortex or hippocampus. Although the 192-IgG saporin induced lesions reduced the ChAT activity in the frontal cortex, parietal cortex and hippocampus by 77, 50 and 21%, respectively, no changes were observed in the number of nAChRs as studied by 3H-cytisine or 3H-epibatidine. The results indicate a difference in vulnerability of the cortical nAChR subtypes to experimental lesions of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis. The findings in this study suggest that a major portion of the nAChRs might be located on non-cholinergic neurons in the brain.
Prenatally irradiated children (n = 544), who were born between 26 April 1986 and 26 February 1987, in regions of the Ukraine which were radioactively contaminated as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, their mothers and teachers have been examined with psychometric tests. The control group of relevant children (n = 759), their mothers and teachers, were living at the radioecological 'clear' regions (Kharkov and Kharkov Region). Further, we randomly selected 50 prenatally irradiated children whose mothers were evacuated from the Chernobyl exclusion zone and 50 age-and-gender-matched non-exposed children. At this phase clinical examinations, psychometric tests, computerized EEG, thyroid function assessment and dosimetric reconstruction were used. We found a significant increase in mental retardation (IQ &lt; 70) and of borderline and low range IQ, as well as emotional and behavioral disorders and a decrease in high IQ (IQ &gt; 110) in children irradiated in utero as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, in comparison with the controls. One important biological mechanism in the genesis of mental disorders in prenatally irradiated children is the radiation-induced malfunction of the thyroid-pituitary system with the effect threshold of 0.30 Sv of thyroid exposure dose. We hypothesize that the cerebral basis of mental disorders in the prenatally irradiated children is the malfunction of the left hemisphere limbic-reticular structures, particularly in those exposed at the most critical period of cerebrogenesis (8-25 weeks of gestation). The data obtained reveal mental disorders in prenatally irradiated children and obviously reflect developmental abnormalities of brain structure and function as a result of the interaction of prenatal and post-natal factors where it is possible to assume radiation effects on the developing brain. A follow-up study of the children irradiated in utero, who may be at risk for schizophrenia, is proposed because of its particular importance to clinical medicine and neuroscience.


We investigated the integrated cardiovascular responses of 15 human subjects to the acute gravitational changes (micro- and hypergravity portions) of parabolic flight. Measurements were made with subjects quietly seated and while subjects performed controlled Valsalva maneuvers. During quiet, seated, parabolic flight, mean arterial pressure increased during the transition into microgravity but decreased as microgravity was sustained. The decrease in mean arterial pressure was accompanied by immediate reflexive increases in heart rate but by absent (or later-than-expected) reflexive increases in total vascular resistance. Mean arterial pressure responses in Valsalva phases IIl, III, and IV were accentuated in hypergravity relative to microgravity (P &lt; 0.01, P &lt; 0.01, and P &lt; 0. 05, respectively), but accentuations differed qualitatively and quantitatively from those induced by a supine-to-seated postural change in 1 G. This study is the first systematic evaluation of temporal and Valsalva-related changes in cardiovascular parameters during parabolic flight. Results suggest that arterial baroreflex control of vascular resistance may be modified by alterations of cardiopulmonary, vestibular, and/or other receptor activity.
5-Aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide 1-beta-D-ribofuranoside (AICAR) is taken up by perfused skeletal muscle and phosphorylated to form 5-aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide-1-beta-D-ribofuraosyl-5'-monopho sph ate (analog of 5'-AMP) with consequent activation of AMP-activated protein kinase, phosphorylation of acetyl-CoA carboxylase, decrease in malonyl-CoA, and increase in fatty acid oxidation. This study was designed to determine the effect of increasing levels of palmitate on the rate of fatty acid oxidation. Malonyl-CoA concentration was manipulated with AICAR at different palmitate concentrations. Rat hindlimbs were perfused with Krebs-Henseleit bicarbonate containing 4% bovine serum albumin, washed bovine red cells, 200 microU/ml insulin, 10 mM glucose, and different concentrations of palmitate (0. 1-1.0 mM) without or with AICAR (2.0 mM). Perfusion with medium containing AICAR was found to activate AMP-activated protein kinase in skeletal muscle, inactivate acetyl-CoA carboxylase, and decrease malonyl-CoA at all concentrations of palmitate. The rate of palmitate oxidation increased as a function of palmitate concentration in both the presence and absence of AICAR but was always higher in the presence of AICAR. These results provide additional evidence that malonyl-CoA is an important regulator of the rate of fatty acid oxidation at palmitate concentrations in the physiological range.
The purpose of this study was to determine whether short interspike intervals (ISIs of &lt;20 ms) would occur naturally during voluntary movement and would increase in number with fatigue. Thirty-four triceps brachii motor units from nine subjects were assessed during a fatigue task consisting of fifty extension and fifty flexion elbow movements against a constant-load opposing extension. Nineteen motor units were recorded from the beginning of the fatigue task; the number of short ISIs was 7.1 +/- 4.1% of the total number of ISIs in the first one-third of the task (unfatigued state). This value increased to 11.8 +/- 5.9% for the last one-third of the task (fatigued state). Fifteen motor units were recruited during the fatigue task and discharged, with 16.4 +/- 6.0% of short ISIs in the fatigued state. For all motor units, the number of short ISIs was positively correlated (r2 = 0.85) with the recruitment threshold torque. Short ISIs occurred most frequently at movement initiation but also occurred throughout the movement. These results document the presence of short ISIs during voluntary movement and their increase in number during fatigue.
The bioluminescent reaction catalysed by firefly luciferase has become widely established as an outstanding analytical system for assay of ATP. When used in solution, luciferase is unstable and cannot be re-used, a problem that can be partially circumvented by immobilizing the enzyme on solid substrates. Transparent glass is especially advantageous over alternative immobilizing matrices, since it allows most of the emitted photons to be detected. We report a new method for luciferase immobilization on glass which does not require prior silanization and glutaraldehyde activation, thus saving preparation time and minimizing enzyme inactivation. Our method is based on the co-immobilization by adsorption of luciferase (from a firefly lantern extract) and poly-L-lysine (PL) on non-porous glass strips. Luciferase immobilized in this way exhibits minimal variations in intersample activity, high sensitivity for ATP detection (linear luminescence responses down to 50 nmol/L) and good stability (full activity for at least 60 days when stored at -80 degrees C). PL-mediated immobilization of luciferase on glass strips provides an attractive strategy for the design of specific ATP biosensors, with potential in industry, environmental screening, medicine and biological research.
We used the isolated-muscle-bath technique to examine the effect of protein tyrosine kinase (PTK) and protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) inhibitors on the response of rings of tail artery from male and female rats to cooling and reduced temperature in the absence and presence of two PTK-dependent (clonidine and serotonin) and one PTK-independent (phenylephrine, PE) agonists. At 37 degrees C, reactivity to clonidine, serotonin, and PE was the same in tail artery from female and male rats. At 25 degrees C, reactivity to clonidine and serotonin, but not PE, was greater in tail artery from female rats compared with those from male rats. Sodium orthovanadate (SOV) eliminated the gender-related difference in the contractile effect of clonidine and serotonin at 25 degrees C. The sensitivity to relaxation by genistein was considerably greater for clonidine and serotonin at both temperatures as compared with PE. At 25 degrees C the sensitivity to genistein was greater for the clonidine and serotonin-contracted rings from female rats. In the presence of SOV, temperature reduction led to contraction of rat-tail artery. This effect was greater in rings from female rats. Our results strongly implicate differences in the activity of the PTK transduction pathway as the cause of the observed gender-related differences in agonist-mediated contraction at 25 degrees C and in cold-induced vasoconstriction.
Contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging was used to produce high-resolution activation maps reflecting local changes in cerebral blood volume after a simple sensory stimulus. Activation of the forelimb region of the somatosensory cortex was performed in alpha-chloralose-anaesthetized rats with an electrical stimulus (5 V, 3 Hz) delivered through needle electrodes placed subcutaneously on the left forelimb. A gradient echo magnetic resonance imaging sequence, sensitive to changes in the relative amount of deoxyhemoglobin within the cerebral vasculature, produced a 4.05%+/-1.69% increase in signal intensity. This effect was enhanced with an injection of an intravascular iron oxide contrast agent (Combidex, Advanced Magnetics), resulting in a 9.11%+/-1.52% decrease in signal intensity.
Wolfram syndrome (WS) is characterized by optic atrophy, insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, vasopressin (VP)-sensitive diabetes insipidus, and neurosensory hearing loss. Here we report a disturbance in VP precursor processing in the supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei of WS patients. In these patients with diabetes insipidus we could hardly detect any cellular immunoreactivity for processed VP in the supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei. On the other hand, in the paraventricular nucleus a considerable number of cells immunoreactive for the VP precursor were present. In addition, the proprotein convertase PC2 and the molecular chaperone 7B2 were absent. As expression of PC2 and 7B2 was detected in the nearby nucleus basalis of Meynert of one WS patient and in the anterior lobe of the other WS patient, the absence of the two proteins in the paraventricular nucleus was not due to mutations in their genes. These results indicate that in WS patients with diabetes insipidus, not only does VP neuron loss occur in the supraoptic nucleus, but there is also a defect in VP precursor processing.


Larry R. Squire is Professor of Psychiatry, Neurosciences, and Psychology at the University of California, San Diego, and Research Career Scientist at the San Diego Veterans Affairs Medical Center. He received a B.A. from Oberlin College, a Ph.D. from MIT, and did postdoctoral work at the Albert Einstein Medical School. His most influential mentors were Hans-Lukas Teuber and Samuel H. Barondes. His work has focused broadly on the problem of how the brain accomplishes learning and memory. Some of this work has involved mice and rats, but most of it has been carried out with monkeys and humans. Although his own studies have been concerned primarily with the function and organization of the brain systems that support memory, he sees the modern science of memory as benefiting from a broad range of approaches that includes the cellular and molecular study of synaptic plasticity as well as the study of normal cognition. In 1993-1994 he served as President of the Society for Neuroscience. He is a member of the National Academy of Sciences, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and the American Philosophical Society. A book, Memory: From Mind to Molecules, coauthored with Eric Kandel, will be published in late 1998 by W. H. Freeman and Company.
The perception and production of temporal patterns, or rhythms, is important for both music and speech. However, the way in which the human brain achieves accurate timing of perceptual input and motor output is as yet little understood. Central control of both motor timing and perceptual timing across modalities has been linked to both the cerebellum and the basal ganglia (BG). The present study was designed to test the hypothesized central control of temporal processing and to examine the roles of the cerebellum, BG, and sensory association areas. In this positron emission tomography (PET) activation paradigm, subjects reproduced rhythms of increasing temporal complexity that were presented separately in the auditory and visual modalities. The results provide support for a supramodal contribution of the lateral cerebellar cortex and cerebellar vermis to the production of a timed motor response, particularly when it is complex and/or novel. The results also give partial support to the involvement of BG structures in motor timing, although this may be more directly related to implementation of the motor response than to timing per se. Finally, sensory association areas and the ventrolateral frontal cortex were found to be involved in modality-specific encoding and retrieval of the temporal stimuli. Taken together, these results point to the participation of a number of neural structures in the production of a timed motor response from an external stimulus. The role of the cerebellum in timing is conceptualized not as a clock or counter but simply as the structure that provides the necessary circuitry for the sensory system to extract temporal information and for the motor system to learn to produce a precisely timed response.
In order to test the language-specificity of a known neural correlate of syntactic processing [the P600 event-related brain potential (ERP) component], this study directly compared ERPs elicited by syntactic incongruities in language and music. Using principles of phrase structure for language and principles of harmony and key-relatedness for music, sequences were constructed in which an element was either congruous, moderately incongruous, or highly incongruous with the preceding structural context. A within-subjects design using 15 musically educated adults revealed that linguistic and musical structural incongruities elicited positivities that were statistically indistinguishable in a specified latency range. In contrast, a music-specific ERP component was observed that showed antero-temporal right-hemisphere lateralization. The results argue against the language-specificity of the P600 and suggest that language and music can be studied in parallel to address questions of neural specificity in cognitive processing.

The toad Xenopus laevis is able to adapt its skin color to background light intensity. In this neuroendocrine reflex, the proopiomelanocortin (POMC)-derived peptide alpha-melanophore-stimulating hormone (alphaMSH) is a key regulatory factor. In animals adapting to a black background, release of alphaMSH from the pituitary pars intermedia causes dispersal of melanin in skin melanophores. To investigate the long-term in vivo dynamics of alphaMSH production during black background adaptation, the biosynthetic rate of POMC and the contents of POMC, alphaMSH and the POMC processing enzyme precursor convertase 2 (PC2) have been studied in the pars intermedia using pulse-labeling, Western blot and radioimmunoassay. In control animals, adapted to a white background, the rate of POMC biosynthesis and the POMC content were low, while high alphaMSH and PC2 contents were found. After 1 week of adaptation to a black background, the rate of POMC biosynthesis and the POMC protein content had increased 19- and 3.7-fold respectively. These parameters attained a maximum level (28- and 5. 8-fold higher than control) after 3 weeks and remained at these elevated levels for at least 12 weeks. After 1 week, the pars intermedia content of alphaMSH was only 30% of the control level, but after 6 and 12 weeks, the alphaMSH level had increased to the control level. The PC2 content decreased to 52% of control after 1 week and stabilized after 3 weeks at a level slightly lower than the control value. The results show that during long-term background adaptation a steady-state situation is reached, with a balance between the biosynthesis, enzymatic processing and release of alphaMSH. The in vivo dynamics of the processing enzyme PC2 suggest a parallel storage and release of alphaMSH and mature PC2 in the Xenopus pituitary pars intermedia.


Phorbol-12,13-dibutyrate (PDBu), an activator of protein kinase C, was used to evaluate potential age-related changes in phosphorylation-dependent facilitation of high-affinity L-glutamate uptake in the rat central nervous system (CNS). Forebrain homogenates from male Fischer-344/brown Norway F1 hybrid rats were separated into glia-enriched (glial plasmalemmal vesicles) and neuron-enriched fractions (synaptosomes) and assayed for sodium-dependent transport of L-[3H]glutamate. Glial fractions from rats aged 5, 25, 31, and 37 months exhibited similar rates of basal L-[3H]glutamate transport and demonstrated no significant age-related differences with respect to the maximal facilitatory effect of PDBu (1-100 microM). In contrast, neuronal fractions exhibited an age-related decline in both indices, with basal L-[3H]glutamate transport decreasing from 710+/-31 to 560+/-40 pmoL/mg protein/90 s for the 5- and 37-month groups, respectively (p &lt; .03) and PDBu having a significantly attenuated effect in aged animals. Together, these results provide support for the hypothesis that aging is associated with a decrease in the number of neuronal L-glutamate transporters as well as a diminished capacity to up-regulate these transporters through a protein kinase C-dependent pathway.
Pre-embedding immunocytochemistry for the active form of glutamate decarboxylase (GAD67) and postembedding staining for gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) were compared as markers for central GABAergic terminals in the phrenic motor nucleus, in which phrenic motor neurons had been retrogradely labeled with cholera toxin B-horseradish peroxidase. Nerve terminals with or without GAD67 immunoreactivity were identified in one ultrathin section. GABA was localized with immunogold in an adjacent section after etching and bleaching. GABA labeling density was assessed over 519 GAD67-positive and GAD67-negative nerve terminals in the phrenic motor nucleus. Frequency histograms showed that statistically higher densities of gold particles occurred over most GAD67-positive terminals. However, some GAD67-negative terminals also showed high densities of gold particles, and some GAD67-positive terminals showed low densities. Preabsorption of the anti-GABA antibody with a GABA-protein conjugate, but not with other amino acid-protein conjugates, significantly reduced gold labeling over both GAD67-positive and GAD67-negative terminals. These results show that the presence of GAD67 immunoreactivity correlates strongly with high densities of immunogold labeling for GABA in nerve terminals in the phrenic motor nucleus. Preabsorption controls indicate that authentic GABA was localized in the postembedding labeling procedure. Only a small proportion of intensely GABA-immunoreactive terminals lack GAD67, suggesting that both GAD67 and GABA are reliable markers of GABAergic nerve terminals.
Human IFN-gamma-inducible protein, 10 kDa (hIP-10) and murine IP-10 (mIP-10) genes are induced by IFN-gamma alone, and synergistically induced by TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma. Upstream regions of the human and murine genes contain conserved regulatory motifs, including an IFN-stimulated response element (ISRE), which governs response of the mIP-10 gene to IFN-gamma. Trans-acting factors mediating the IFN-gamma response via ISRE remain incompletely defined. We examined ISRE-binding factors in the regulation of the hIP-10 gene. The requirement of p48 for hIP-10 induction by IFN-gamma, with or without TNF-alpha, was demonstrated using p48-deficient U2A cells. An hIP-10 promoter-reporter mutant (mISRE3) that was relatively deficient for binding a related factor, IFN regulatory factor-1 (IRF-1) but competent for binding p48, was induced as well as the wild-type hIP-10 promoter, supporting the interpretation that p48 played a necessary and sufficient role in hIP-10 transcription. Genomic in vivo footprinting revealed IFN-gamma/TNF-alpha-inducible binding at the ISRE consistent with the presence of p48 and associated factors, but not with IRF-1. Induction of hIP-10 by TNF-alpha/IFN-gamma also required NFkappaB binding sites, which were protected in vivo and bound p65 homodimeric NFkappaB in vitro. These results documented the essential role of p48 (complexed with STAT-1alpha) for induction and sustained transcription of the IP-10 gene, strongly suggesting that IRF-1 is not required for IP-10 induction by these inflammatory cytokines.
Beta-amyloid (A beta) peptides are a key component of the senile plaques that characterize Alzheimer's disease. Cytokine-producing microglia have been shown to be intimately associated with amyloid deposits and have also been implicated as scavengers responsible for clearing A beta deposits. However, little is known about the initial activation of these microglia or the effect of A beta on phagocytosis. Murine BV-2 microglia were used to assess the effect of synthetic A beta 1-42 on phagocytosis by quantifying uptake of fluorescent microspheres, acetylated low-density lipoproteins, and zymosan particles by flow cytometry. A beta 1-42 stimulated microglial phagocytosis in a time- and dose-dependent manner. A beta fibrils produced the greatest potentiation, and once activated, phagocytosis remained elevated after removal of A beta from the cultures. A beta-stimulated phagocytosis could be blocked if proteoglycans were first complexed to A beta fibrils. These data suggest that A beta fibrils act as an immune signal to stimulate microglial phagocytosis and that extracellular matrix molecules may modify A beta function.
Consumption of moderate quantities of ethanol during pregnancy produces deficits in long-term potentiation in the hippocampal formation of adult offspring. Protein kinase C (PKC)-mediated phosphorylation of the presynaptic protein GAP-43 is critical for the induction of long-term potentiation. We tested the hypothesis that this system is affected in fetal alcohol-exposed (FAE) rats by measuring GAP-43 phosphorylation and PKC activity in the hippocampus of adult offspring of rat dams that had consumed one of three diets throughout gestation: (a) a 5% ethanol liquid diet, which produced a maternal blood ethanol concentration of 83 mg/dl (FAE); (b) an isocalorically equivalent 0% ethanol diet (pair-fed); or (c) lab chow ad libitum. Western blot analysis using specific antibodies to PKC-phosphorylated GAP-43 revealed that FAE rats had an approximately 50% reduction in the proportion of phosphorylated GAP-43. Similarly, we found that PKC-mediated incorporation of 32P into GAP-43 was reduced by 85% in hippocampal slices from FAE rats compared with both control groups. FAE animals also showed a 50% reduction in total hippocampal PKC activity, whereas the levels of six major PKC isozymes did not change in any of the diet groups. These results suggest that GAP-43 phosphorylation deficits in rats prenatally exposed to moderate levels of ethanol are not due to alterations in the expression of either the enzyme or substrate protein, but rather to a defect in kinase activation.
Mice infected with the LP-BM5 leukemia retrovirus mixture develop a progressive immunodeficiency with associated behavioral, histological, and neurochemical alterations consistent with glutamatergic hyperactivation. To gain insight into the contribution of excitatory amino acids to the neurodegeneration observed in these mice, their concentrations were measured in the CSF and striatal microdialysates. Glutamate concentrations were significantly elevated in CSF but not plasma as early as 4 weeks postinoculation. Steady-state glutamate levels in striatal microdialysates were increased threefold and could be reduced 40% by application of L-alpha-aminoadipate, an inhibitor of microglial glutamate transport. Stimulation of infected mice with KCl/L-trans-2,4-pyrrolidine dicarboxylate further increased glutamate levels 170-270% above those evoked in control mice. Tetrodotoxin suppressed the depolarization-evoked increase in glutamate by 88% in control mice, but it had only negligible effects in 40% of infected mice. Analysis of glutamate transport and catabolism suggests that abnormal astrocytic function does not contribute to the increase in basal extracellular glutamate levels. These findings are the first direct evidence that infection with an immunodeficiency-inducing retrovirus leads to a chronic elevation of extracellular free glutamate levels in the brain, which contributes to the neurodegenerative and cognitive deficits observed in these mice.
Intrastriatal injection of dopamine causes the selective degeneration of tyrosine hydroxylase-containing terminals and an increase in content of cysteinyl-catechols, an index of dopamine oxidation. Both of these effects can be attenuated by coadministration of antioxidants such as glutathione. Therefore, we investigated the effects of decreased endogenous glutathione on the neurotoxic potential of dopamine. We observed that pretreatment with either L-buthionine sulfoximine, a specific inhibitor of glutathione synthesis, or diethyl maleate, which forms adducts with glutathione, caused significant decreases in endogenous glutathione levels at the time of dopamine injection. Pretreatment with L-buthionine sulfoximine potentiated the formation of protein cysteinyl-dopamine after intrastriatal injection of 1.0 micromol of dopamine. We also observed that intrastriatal injection of 1.0 micromol of dopamine decreased striatal glutathione content in all pretreatment conditions. However, injection of a low dose (0.05 micromol of dopamine) caused a decrease in striatal glutathione levels only in the L-buthionine sulfoximine-pretreated rats. Diethyl maleate pretreatment was not effective in potentiating either cysteinyl-catechol formation or glutathione loss after dopamine injection. We conclude that dopamine contributes to cellular oxidative stress and that this can be exacerbated, or at least unmasked, if glutathione synthesis is compromised.
Neurotransmission requires rapid docking, fusion, and recycling of neurotransmitter vesicles. Several of the proteins involved in this complex Ca2+-regulated mechanism have been identified as substrates for protein kinases and phosphatases, e.g., the synapsins, synaptotagmin, rabphilin3A, synaptobrevin, munc18, MARCKS, dynamin I, and B-50/GAP-43. So far most attention has focused on the role of kinases in the release processes, but recent evidence indicates that phosphatases may be as important. Therefore, we investigated the role of the Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein phosphatase calcineurin in exocytosis and subsequent vesicle recycling. Calcineurin-neutralizing antibodies, which blocked dynamin I dephosphorylation by endogenous synaptosomal calcineurin activity, but had no effect on the activity of protein phosphatases 1 or 2A, were introduced into rat permeabilized nerve terminals and inhibited Ca2+-induced release of [3H]noradrenaline and neuropeptide cholecystokinin-8 in a specific and concentration-dependent manner. Our data show that the Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent phosphatase calcineurin plays an essential role in exocytosis and/or vesicle recycling of noradrenaline and cholecystokinin-8, transmitters stored in large dense-cored vesicles.
cDNAs encoding four isoforms of the human NMDA receptor (NMDAR) NMDAR2C (hNR2C-1, -2, -3, and -4) have been isolated and characterized. The overall identity of the deduced amino acid sequences of human and rat NR2C-1 is 89.0%. The sequences of the rat and human carboxyl termini (Gly925-Val1,236) are encoded by different exons and are only 71.5% homologous. In situ hybridization in human brain revealed the expression of the NR2C mRNA in the pontine reticular formation and lack of expression in substantia nigra pars compacta in contrast to the distribution pattern observed previously in rodent brain. The pharmacological properties of hNR1A/2C were determined by measuring agonist-induced inward currents in Xenopus oocytes and compared with those of other human NMDAR subtypes. Glycine, glutamate, and NMDA each discriminated between hNR1A/2C-1 and at least one of hNR1A/2A, hNR1A/2B, or hNR1A/2D subtypes. Among the antagonists tested, CGS 19755 did not significantly discriminate between any of the four subtypes, whereas 5,7-dichlorokynurenic acid distinguished between hNR1A/2C and hNR1A/2D. Immunoblot analysis of membranes isolated from HEK293 cells transiently transfected with cDNAs encoding hNR1A and each of the four NR2C isoforms indicated the formation of heteromeric complexes between hNR1A and all four hNR2C isoforms. HEK293 cells expressing hNR1A/ 2C-3 or hNR1A/2C-4 did not display agonist responses. In contrast, we observed an agonist-induced elevation of intracellular free calcium and whole-cell currents in cells expressing hNR1A/2C-1 or hNR1A/2C-2. There were no detectable differences in the macroscopic biophysical properties of hNR1A/2C-1 or hNR1A/2C-2.
Studies of processing of the Alzheimer beta-amyloid precursor protein (betaAPP) have been performed to date mostly in continuous cell lines and indicate the existence of two principal metabolic pathways: the &quot;beta-secretase&quot; pathway, which generates beta-amyloid (A beta(1-40/42); approximately 4 kDa), and the &quot;alpha-secretase&quot; pathway, which generates a smaller fragment, the &quot;p3&quot; peptide (A beta(17-40/42); approximately 3 kDa). To determine whether similar processing events underlie betaAPP metabolism in neurons, media were examined following conditioning by primary neuronal cultures derived from embryonic day 17 rats. Immunoprecipitates of conditioned media derived from [35S]methionine pulse-labeled primary neuronal cultures contained 4- and 3-kDa A beta-related species. Radiosequencing analysis revealed that the 4-kDa band corresponded to conventional A beta beginning at position A beta(Asp1), whereas both radiosequencing and immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry analyses indicated that the 3-kDa species in these conditioned media began with A beta(Glu11) at the N terminus, rather than A beta(Leu17) as does the conventional p3 peptide. Either activation of protein kinase C or inhibition of protein phosphatase 1/2A increased soluble betaAPP(alpha) release and decreased generation of both the 4-kDa A beta and the 3-kDa N-truncated A beta. Unlike results obtained with continuously cultured cells, protein phosphatase 1/2A inhibitors were more potent at reducing A beta secretion by neurons than were protein kinase C activators. These data indicate that rodent neurons generate abundant A beta variant peptides and emphasize the role of protein phosphatases in modulating neuronal A beta generation.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) is a potent survival factor for midbrain dopaminergic neurons. To begin to understand the intracellular signaling pathways used by GDNF, we investigated the role of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase activity in GDNF-stimulated cellular function and differentiation of dopaminergic neurons. We found that treatment of dopaminergic neuron cultures with 10 ng/ml GDNF induced maximal levels of Ret phosphorylation and produced a profound increase in phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase activity, as measured by western blot analysis and lipid kinase assays. Treatment with 1 microM 2-(4-morpholinyl)-8-phenylchromone (LY294002) or 100 nM wortmannin, two distinct and potent inhibitors of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase activity, completely inhibited GDNF-induced phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase activation, but did not affect Ret phosphorylation. Furthermore, we examined specific biological functions of dopaminergic neurons: dopamine uptake activity and morphological differentiation of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive neurons. GDNF significantly increased dopamine uptake activity and promoted robust morphological differentiation. Treatment with LY294002 completely abolished the GDNF-induced increases of dopamine uptake and morphological differentiation of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive neurons. Our findings show that GDNF-induced differentiation of dopaminergic neurons requires phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase activation.
Earlier reports on nonneural cells have shown that the normally inner plasma membrane lipid, phosphatidylserine (PS), flip-flops out during the early stages of apoptosis, whereas DNA laddering and plasma membrane permeabilization occur during the late stages. In this study, the applicability of these parameters to CNS-derived neuronal cells was tested using hippocampal HN2-5, cells that undergo apoptosis under anoxia. Because such insults on unsynchronized cells, e.g., undifferentiated HN2-5 cells, result in both early and late apoptotic cells, we mechanically separated these cells into three fractions containing (a) cells that had completely detached during anoxia, (b) cells that remained weakly attached to the tissue culture dish and, once detached by trituration in serum-containing medium, did not reattach, and (c) cells that reattached in 2-3 h. Fractions a and b contained cells that showed pronounced DNA laddering, whereas cells in fraction c did not show any DNA laddering. Double staining with fluorescein isothiocyanate-annexin V (which binds to PS) and propidium iodide (which stains the DNA in cells with a permeable cell membrane) revealed that all cells in fraction a had a permeable cell membrane (propidium iodide-positive) and PS molecules in the outer leaflet of the plasma membrane (fluorescein isothiocyanate-annexin V-positive). By contrast, fractions b and c contained cells with no externalized PS molecules. Cells in fractions a-c also showed, respectively, 50-, 21-, and 5.5-fold higher caspase-3 (CPP32) activity than that in healthy control cells. All these results show that fraction a contained late apoptotic cells, which also had the highest CPP32 activity; cells in fraction b were at an intermediate stage, when DNA laddering had already occurred; and fraction c contained very early apoptotic cells, in which no DNA laddering had yet occurred. Therefore, in the neuronal HN2-5 cells, externalization of PS occurs only during the final stages of apoptosis when the cells have completely lost their adhesion properties. Further experiments showed that ameboid microglial cells isolated from neonatal mouse brain phagocytosed only the cells in fraction a. These results show that in CNS-derived HN2-5 cells, (a) PS externalization is a late apoptotic event and is concomitant with a complete loss of surface adhesion of the apoptotic cells and (b) PS externalization is crucial for microglial recognition and phagocytosis of the apoptotic HN2-5 cells. Thus, PS externalization could be causally linked to the final detachment of apoptotic neuronal cells, which in turn prepares them for rapid phagocytosis by microglia.
In crushed goldfish optic nerve, regenerating axons cross the site of lesion within 10 days following injury. Some 30 days later, Schwann cells accumulate at the lesion, where they myelinate the new axons. In this study, we have used immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy to examine the cellular environment of the crush site prior to the establishment of Schwann cells in order to learn more about the early events that contribute to axonal regeneration. During the first week following injury, macrophages enter the site of lesion and efficiently phagocytose the debris. The infiltration of macrophages precedes the arrival of regenerating axons that abut and surround these phagocytes. Based on EM morphology and phagocytic capacity, macrophages of the type observed at the site of lesion are not present in the degenerating distal nerve segment, where debris clearance is shared between conventional microglia and astrocytes over a period of several weeks. During this period, axon bundles emerging distally from the injury zone become enwrapped by astrocyte processes, thereby re-establishing the characteristic fascicular cytoarchitecture of the optic nerve. The process of fasciculation also leads to the displacement of myelin debris to the margins of the fiber bundles, where it is trapped by the astrocytes. Our results suggest that the early robust appearance of macrophages at the lesion, and their effectiveness as phagocytes compared with the microglia distally, may contribute to the vigorous axonal regeneration across the crush, beyond which axons--excepting the pioneers--extend through newly formed debris-free channels delineated by astrocyte processes.

To gain insights into the different forms of modified amyloid beta peptides (A beta) in the Alzheimer disease (AD) and Down syndrome (DS) brain, we used two-site ELISAs with antibodies specific for isomerized (i.e. A beta with L-isoaspartate at positions 1 and 7) and pyroglutamate-modified (i.e. A beta beginning with pyroglutamate at position 3) forms of A beta to quantitate the levels of these different A beta peptides in formic acid extracts of AD and DS frontal cortex. Despite variations in the proportions of distinct forms of A beta in AD and DS frontal cortex, the major species of A beta in these samples were A betaN3(pyroGlu)-42 as well as A beta x-42 (where x is a residue at position 2 or less in A beta), whereas isomerized A beta was a minor species. Further, the levels of isomerized and pyroglutamate-modified forms of A beta terminating at amino acid 42 were higher than those ending at amino acid 40. The abundance of the distinct forms of A beta reported here in formic acid extracts of AD and DS frontal cortex suggests that these A beta species could play important roles in the deposition of A beta in AD and DS brains.
Recent studies have shown that deficient functioning of glutamate transporters (GTs) in Alzheimer disease (AD) might lead to neurodegeneration via excitotoxicity; however, the characteristics of cell death and pathways involved are not yet clear. The main objective of the present study was to determine if deficient GT functioning in AD could be associated with cell damage and caspase activation. For this purpose, we analyzed the levels of caspase-1 and 3 immunoreactivity in AD and control brains and correlated this data with the numbers of cells displaying DNA fragmentation, GT activity, and amyloid precursor protein (APP) mRNA expression. Compared to controls, AD cases showed extensive positive labeling of neurons and glial cells with an assay for DNA fragmentation suggestive of cell damage, as well as increased neuronal caspase-3 and Bcl-2 immunoreactivity. Linear regression analysis showed a strong negative correlation between GT activity and apoptosis, and between deficient GT functioning and caspase-3 immunoreactivity. Neurons displaying DNA fragmentation presented more intense caspase-3 immunoreactivity than intact neurons. In addition, the altered ratio between the spliced forms of APP correlated with DNA fragmentation and caspase-3 immunolabeling. Taken together, these results support the possibility that excitotoxic injury associated with deficient GT functioning and an imbalance in ratio of spliced APP forms might lead to cell death via caspase-3 activation.
The piriform cortex is a temporal lobe structure with a very high seizure susceptibility. To investigate the spatiotemporal characteristics of epileptiform activity, slices of piriform cortex were examined by imaging electrical activity with a voltage-sensitive fluorescent dye. Discharge activity was studied for different sites of stimulation and different planes of slicing along the anterior-posterior axis. Epileptiform behavior was elicited either by disinhibition with a gamma-aminobutyric acid-A receptor antagonist or by induction with a transient period of spontaneous bursting in low-chloride medium. Control activity recorded with fluorescent dye had the same pharmacological and temporal characteristics as control activity reported previously with microelectrodes. Simultaneous optical and extracellular microelectrode recordings of epileptiform discharges showed the same duration, latency, and all-or-none character as described previously with microelectrodes. Under all conditions examined, threshold electrical stimulation applied throughout the piriform cortex evoked all-or-none epileptiform discharges originating in a site that included the endopiriform nucleus, a previously identified site of discharge onset. In induced slices, but not disinhibited slices, the site of onset also included layer VI of the adjoining agranular insular cortex and perirhinal cortex, in slices from anterior and posterior piriform cortex, respectively. These locations had not been identified previously as sites of discharge onset. Thus like the endopiriform nucleus, the deep agranular insular cortex and perirhinal cortex have a very low seizure threshold. Additional subtle differences were noted between the induced and disinhibited models of epileptogenesis. Velocity was determined for discharges after onset, as they propagated outward to the overlying piriform cortex. Propagation in other directions was examined as well. In most cases, velocities were below that for action potential conduction, suggesting that recurrent excitation and/or ephaptic interactions play a role in discharge propagation. Future investigations of the cellular and organizational properties of regions identified in this study should help clarify the neurobiological basis of high seizure susceptibility.
Vasopressin (VP) neurons in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) are thought to be closely linked to neural mechanisms for circadian timekeeping. To gain insight into the cellular-physiological principles that govern spike-driven VP release and to examine whether VP cells can be electrophysiologically and morphologically identified by a unique combination of features, we recorded membrane properties by whole cell patch-clamp methods and stained the cells with biocytin. In current-clamp mode, VP neurons recorded during subjective daytime expressed a clear time-dependent inward rectification but no pronounced low-threshold Ca2+ potential after hyperpolarizing current pulses. Their spontaneous firing rate varied between 0.6 and 13.4 Hz and was generally tonic and irregular. Spike afterhyperpolarizations (AHPs) were steeply rising and monophasic. Spikes were preceded by depolarizing ramps mediated by a slow component of Na+ current. Spike trains evoked by depolarizing current pulses displayed frequency adaptation and were usually followed by an AHP lasting 0.5-2.0 s. Spontaneous postsynaptic potentials were present in a majority of cells. Voltage-clamp recordings revealed a Ba2+-sensitive K+ current that exerts a tonic, hyperpolarizing influence on the membrane potential. This set of membrane properties was not significantly different from other cells in the dorsomedial region and is characteristic for cluster I cells, which were described previously and are widely encountered throughout the SCN. None of the cells could be classified as belonging to cluster II or III, which were indeed found mainly outside the dorsomedial region. Morphologically, single VP neurons were characterized by compact, mono- or bipolar dendritic branching patterns and numerous varicosities throughout the dendrites. They generally possessed few axon collaterals, most of which remained inside the boundaries of the SCN but were occasionally seen to project to SCN target areas. In conclusion, VP neurons in the SCN express several active membrane poperties, including time-dependent inward rectification, frequency adaptation in spike trains, monophasic spike AHPs, and Ba2+-sensitive K+ current. VP release is proposed to be governed by tonic and irregular patterns of spontaneous firing. The electrophysiological and cytological properties of VP neurons are representative for a majority of SCN cells and define them as a subset of previously defined cluster I cells.
In the guinea pig, a unilateral labyrinthectomy is followed by an initial depression and a subsequent restoration of the spontaneous activity in the neurons of the ipsilateral vestibular nuclei. In two previous works, we have established the time course of these changes in the alert guinea pig using electrical stimulation as a search stimulus to select the analyzed neurons. The latter criterion was important to capture the many ipsilateral neurons that are silent at rest during the immediate postlabyrinthectomy stage. Because it is known that a pathway originating from the vestibular nuclei on one side crosses the midline and functionally inhibits the activity of the vestibular nuclei on the other side, we investigated in the first part of this study the spiking behavior of the neurons in the vestibular nuclei contralateral to the labyrinthectomy using the same procedure as that used for the ipsilateral neurons. The spiking behavior of 976 neurons was studied during 4-h recording sessions in intact animals and 1 h, 1 day, 2 days, or 1 wk postlabyrinthectomy. Neurons selected according to the electrical activation criterion were classified further as type I (their firing rate increased during ipsilateral rotation), type II (their firing rate increased during contralateral rotation), or unresponsive. The resting activity of type I neurons, which was 38.1 +/- 20.9 spikes/s (mean +/- SD) in the control state, increased statistically significantly 1 h after the lesion (53.3 +/- 29.1 spikes/s) and remained at this level 1 wk later (56.0 +/- 20.3 spikes/s). The sensitivity of type I units, which was 0.80 +/- 0.46 spikes/s per deg/s in the control population, decreased to 0.49 +/- 0.26 spikes/s per deg/s 1 h after the lesion and remained at this level 1 wk later (0.50 +/- 0.39 spikes/s per deg/s). When all monosynaptically activated neurons (type I, type II, unresponsive) were pooled, the sensitivity to horizontal rotation fell from 0.58 +/- 0.51 spikes/s per deg/s in the control state to 0. 15 +/- 0.25 spikes/s per deg/s 1 h after the lesion and to 0.20 +/- 0.32 spikes/s per deg/s 1 wk later. The major findings of the first part of this study in the alert guinea pig are thus in accord with those of Curthoys et al. and Smith and Curthoys in anesthetized guinea pigs. In the second part of this work, we studied the spiking behavior of the neurons in the vestibular nuclei after bilateral labyrinthectomy. After unilateral labyrinthectomy, the resting discharge of the ipsilateral monosynaptically activated vestibular neurons fell from 36.9 +/- 21 spikes/s (basal activity) to 6.7 +/- 17.0 spikes/s 1 h after the lesion and then recovered, reaching 17.4 +/- 18.9 and 40.8 +/- 23.7 spikes/s 1 day and 1 wk after the lesion, respectively. These observations raise the two following questions. What are the relative contributions of the loss of the excitatory influence from the ipsilateral labyrinth (destroyed) and of the persistence of the inhibitory influence from the contralateral labyrinth (intact) in the labyrinthectomy-induced depression of activity? And are the left-right asymmetries caused by a unilateral labyrinthectomy the driving force for restoration of activity? Here, we addressed these two questions by studying the spiking behavior of 473 second-order vestibular neurons in the alert guinea pig after a bilateral labyrinthectomy. In the acute stage, 1 h after bilateral labyrinthectomy, the resting discharge of the second-order vestibular neurons was 16.2 +/- 22.4 spikes/s. From comparison with the results obtained in the acute stage after a unilateral labyrinthectomy, we inferred that the ipsilateral excitatory influence was between two and three times more powerful than the contralateral inhibitory influence. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)
The whole cell configuration of the patch-clamp technique was used to study the modulation gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-mediated postsynaptic currents by ruthenium red in CA3 hippocampal neurons in slices obtained from postnatal (P) days P6-P10 old rats. In the presence of kynurenic acid (1 mM), ruthenium red (100 microM) completely blocked stimulus-elicited GABA-mediated postsynaptic currents and reduced by 50% the amplitude of the spontaneous ones. Ruthenium red (100 microM) increased the frequency but not the amplitude of miniature GABAergic currents recorded in the presence of tetrodotoxin (1 microM) and kynurenic acid (1 mM), an effect that was prevented by heparin (100 microM). Ruthenium red did not modify the kinetics of miniature postsynaptic currents and the currents induced by exogenous application of GABA (10 microM) in the presence of tetrodotoxin, suggesting that its action was presynaptic in origin. The effects of ruthenium red on quantal GABA release was independent of external calcium. In a nominally Ca2+-free solution the potentiating effect induced by this polyvalent cation on miniature postsynaptic currents was still present. Intracellular calcium stores were not involved in ruthenium red action, because this polyvalent cation was able to facilitate miniature currents also in the presence of thapsigargin (10-20 microM). These results indicate that ruthenium red has a dual action on GABA release from GABAergic interneurons: it reduces the amplitude of spontaneous events and increases the frequency of miniature currents. The former effect is calcium-dependent, whereas the latter is calcium independent.
Modulation of sacral spinal dorsal horn neurons by the ventrolateral PAG was studied by extracellular recording combined with microiontophoretic applications of alpha-adrenergic agonists or antagonists. Bicuculline (BIC, 15 ng) microinjected into the ventrolateral PAG produced a consistent inhibition of the responses of nociceptive dorsal horn neurons. After PAG-BIC applications, the total number of spikes per heat stimulation period was significantly decreased to a mean of 37 +/- 19% (n = 8) of the pre-BIC control. Local iontophoresis of the selective alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonists idazoxan or yohimbine but not the selective alpha1 antagonist benoxathian significantly reversed PAG-BIC-evoked inhibition. At low ejection currents, clonidine, an alpha2-adrenoceptor agonist, markedly reduced noxious heat-evoked responses but had no consistent action on the responses to iontophoresed excitatory amino acids [EAA; N-methyl--aspartate (NMDA) or kainic acid]. At ejection currents higher than required to block descending inhibition, idazoxan potentiated responses to both heat and EAA iontophoresis. At higher ejection currents, EAA responses were inhibited by clonidine. This indicates that both presynaptic and postsynaptic alpha2 receptors are capable of inhibiting the recorded neurons. Activation of the alpha1 adrenoceptors by iontophoresis of methoxamine often led to a marked increase in the responses to kainic acid and, to a lesser extent, to NMDA iontophoresis or noxious heat. Together with previously reported work, the current experiments demonstrate that PAG neurons inhibit nociceptive dorsal horn neurons primarily through an indirect alpha2 adrenoceptor mechanism. In this same population of dorsal horn neurons, norepinephrine has a direct alpha1-mediated excitatory effect.
Mechanisms for the induction of motor learning in the vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) were evaluated by recording the patterns of neural activity elicited in the cerebellum by a range of stimuli that induce learning. Patterns of climbing-fiber, vestibular, and Purkinje cell simple-spike signals were examined during sinusoidal head movement paired with visual image movement at stimulus frequencies from 0.5 to 10 Hz. A comparison of simple-spike and vestibular signals contained the information required to guide learning only at low stimulus frequencies, and a comparison of climbing-fiber and simple-spike signals contained the information required to guide learning only at high stimulus frequencies. Learning could be guided by comparison of climbing-fiber and vestibular signals at all stimulus frequencies tested, but only if climbing fiber responses were compared with the vestibular signals present 100 msec earlier. Computational analysis demonstrated that this conclusion is valid even if there is a broad range of vestibular signals at the site of plasticity. Simulations also indicated that the comparison of vestibular and climbing-fiber signals across the 100 msec delay must be implemented by a subcellular &quot;eligibility&quot; trace rather than by neural circuits that delay the vestibular inputs to the site of plasticity. The results suggest two alternative accounts of learning in the VOR. Either there are multiple mechanisms of learning that use different combinations of neural signals to drive plasticity, or there is a single mechanism tuned to climbing-fiber activity that follows activity in vestibular pathways by approximately 100 msec.
Many neurons in the rat anterodorsal thalamus (ADN) and postsubiculum (PoS) fire selectively when the rat points its head in a specific direction in the horizontal plane, independent of the animal's location and ongoing behavior. The lateral mammillary nuclei (LMN) are interconnected with both the ADN and PoS and, therefore, are in a pivotal position to influence ADN/PoS neurophysiology. To further understand how the head direction (HD) cell signal is generated, we recorded single neurons from the LMN of freely moving rats. The majority of cells discharged as a function of one of three types of spatial correlates: (1) directional heading, (2) head pitch, or (3) angular head velocity (AHV). LMN HD cells exhibited higher peak firing rates and greater range of directional firing than that of ADN and PoS HD cells. LMN HD cells were modulated by angular head velocity, turning direction, and anticipated the rat's future HD by a greater amount of time (approximately 95 msec) than that previously reported for ADN HD cells (approximately 25 msec). Most head pitch cells discharged when the rostrocaudal axis of the rat's head was orthogonal to the horizontal plane. Head pitch cell firing was independent of the rat's location, directional heading, and its body orientation (i.e., the cell discharged whenever the rat pointed its head up, whether standing on all four limbs or rearing). AHV cells were categorized as fast or slow AHV cells depending on whether their firing rate increased or decreased in proportion to angular head velocity. These data demonstrate that LMN neurons code direction and angular motion of the head in both horizontal and vertical planes and support the hypothesis that the LMN play an important role in processing both egocentric and allocentric spatial information.
Although essential for understanding the mechanisms underlying sensorimotor integration and motor control of behaviors, very little is known about the degree to which different behaviors share neural elements of the sensorimotor command chain by which they are controlled. Here, we provide, to our knowledge, the first direct physiological evidence that various modulatory premotor inputs to a vertebrate central pattern generator, the pacemaker nucleus in gymnotiform electric fish, carrying distinctly different behavioral information, can remain segregated from their various sites of origin in the diencephalon to the synaptic termination sites on different target neurons in the medullary pacemaker nucleus. During pharmacological activation of each of the premotor inputs originating from the three prepacemaker nuclei so far identified, we determined in vivo the changes in input resistance in the neuronal elements of the pacemaker nucleus, i.e., relay cells and pacemaker cells. We found that each input yields significantly different effects on these cells; the inputs from the two diencephalic prepacemaker nuclei, PPnC and PPnG, which resulted in increased oscillator activity, caused significantly lower input resistances in relay and pacemaker cells, respectively, exhibiting drastically different time courses. The input from the sublemniscal prepacemaker nucleus, which resulted in reduced oscillator activity, however, caused a significant increase in input resistance only in relay cells. Considering that the sensory pathways processing stimuli yielding these behaviors are separated as well, this study indicates that sensorimotor control of different behaviors can occur in strictly segregated channels from the sensory input of the brain all through to the synaptic input level of the final premotor command nucleus.
Limbic motor seizures in animals, analogous to complex partial seizures in humans, result in a consistent activation of the mediodorsal thalamus (MD) and, with prolonged seizures, damage to MD. This study examined the functional role of MD in focally evoked limbic motor seizures in the rat. GABA- and glutamate (Glu)-mediated synaptic transmissions in MD were evaluated for an influence on seizures evoked from area tempestas (AT), a discrete epileptogenic site in the rostral piriform cortex. A GABAA receptor agonist, Glu receptor antagonists, or a GABA-elevating agent were focally microinfused into MD before evoking seizures by focal application of bicuculline methiodide into the ipsilateral AT. Focal pretreatment of MD with the GABAA agonist muscimol (190 pmol) protected against seizures evoked from AT. Seizure protection was also obtained with the focal application of 2, 3-dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulfamoyl-benzo(F)quinoxaline (NBQX) (500 pmol), an antagonist of the AMPA subtype of Glu receptors, into MD. In contrast, focal pretreatment of MD with a competitive antagonist of the NMDA receptor 2-amino-7-phosphonoheptanoic acid (500 pmol) did not attenuate seizures. The anticonvulsant effects achieved with intra-MD injections of muscimol and NBQX were site-specific, because no seizure protection was obtained with injections placed 2 mm ventral or lateral to MD. Prolonged seizure protection was obtained following GABA elevation in MD after the application of the GABA transaminase inhibitor vigabatrin (194 nmol). These results suggest the following: (1) MD is a critical participant in the generation of seizures elicited focally from piriform cortex; (2) transmission via AMPA receptors, but not NMDA receptors, in MD regulates limbic seizure propagation; and (3) a GABA-mediated system exists within MD, the enhancement of which protects against focally evoked limbic motor seizures.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging was used to test whether odorants induce activation in the cerebellum of the human. The odorants vanillin and propionic acid both induced significant activation, primarily in the posterior lateral hemispheres. Activation was concentration-dependent, greater after stimulation with higher concentration odorants. By contrast, the action of sniffing nonodorized air induced significant activation in the anterior cerebellum, primarily in the central lobule. These findings demonstrate that the cerebellum plays a role in human olfaction. A hypothesis is proposed whereby the cerebellum maintains a feedback mechanism that regulates sniff volume in relation to odor concentration.
On repetitive stimulation, the strength of a reflex controlling leg position in Drosophila decreased, and this response decrement conformed to the parametric features of habituation. To study the presynaptic function of CaMKII in this nonassociative form of learning, we used a P[Gal4] insertion line to target the expression of mutant forms of CaMKII to the sensory neurons controlling the reflex. Targeted expression of a calcium-independent CaMKII construct (T287D) in the sensory neurons eliminated habituation. Targeted expression of a mutant CaMKII incapable of achieving calcium independence (T287A) reduced the initial reflex response, but a strong facilitation then occurred, and this eliminated most of the habituation. Finally, when a CaMKII inhibitory peptide (ala) was expressed in sensory neurons, the initial response was reduced, followed by facilitation. These results suggest that basal CaMKII levels in the presynaptic neurons set the response level and dynamics of the entire neural circuit.
To determine the role of dendritic filopodia in the genesis of excitatory synaptic contacts and dendritic spines in hippocampal area CA1, serial section electron microscopy and three-dimensional analysis of 16 volumes of neuropil from nine male rat pups, aged postnatal day 1 (P1) through P12, were performed. The analysis revealed that numerous dendritic filopodia formed asymmetric synaptic contacts with axons and with filopodia extending from axons, especially during the first postnatal week. At P1, 22 +/- 5.5% of synapses occurred on dendritic filopodia, with 19 +/- 5.9% on filopodia at P4, 20 +/- 8.0% at P6, decreasing to 7.2 +/- 4.7% at P12 (p &lt; 0.02). Synapses were found at the base and along the entire length of filopodia, with many filopodia exhibiting multiple synaptic contacts. In all, 162 completely traceable dendritic filopodia received 255 asymmetric synaptic contacts. These synapses were found at all parts of filopodia with equal frequency, usually occurring on fusiform swellings of the diameter. Most synaptic contacts (53 +/- 11%) occurred directly on dendritic shafts during the first postnatal week. A smaller but still substantial portion (32 +/- 12%) of synapses were on shafts at P12 (p &lt; 0.036). There was a highly significant (p &lt; 0.0002) increase in the proportion of dendritic spine synapses with age, rising from just 4.9 +/- 4.3% at P1 to 37 +/- 14% at P12. The concurrence of primarily shaft and filopodial synapses in the first postnatal week suggests that filopodia recruit shaft synapses that later give rise to spines through a process of outgrowth.
Activity-dependent changes in neuronal structure and synaptic remodeling depend critically on gene regulation. In an attempt to understand how glutamate receptor stimulation at the membrane leads to gene regulation in the nucleus, we traced intracellular signaling pathways targeting DNA regulatory elements of immediate early genes (IEGs). For this purpose we used an in vivo electrical stimulation of the glutamatergic corticostriatal pathway. We show that a transient activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) proteins (detected by immunocytochemistry with an anti-active antibody) is spatially coincident with the onset of IEG induction [c-fos, zif 268, and map kinase phosphatase-1 (MKP-1) detected by in situ hybridization] in the striatum, bilaterally. Both Elk-1 and CREB transcription factors (targeting SRE and CRE DNA regulatory elements, respectively) were hyperphosphorylated in register with ERK activation and IEG mRNA induction. However, their hyperphosphorylation occurred in different subcellular compartments: the cytoplasm and the nucleus for Elk-1 and the nucleus for CREB. The role of the ERK signaling cascade in gene regulation was confirmed after intrastriatal and unilateral injection of the specific ERK inhibitor PD 98059, which completely abolished c-fos, zif 268, and MKP-1 mRNA induction in the injected side. Of interest, both Elk-1 and CREB hyperphosphorylation also was impaired after PD 98059 injection. Thus two different ERK modules, one depending on the cytoplasmic activation of Elk-1 and the other one depending on the nuclear activation of CREB, control IEG transcriptional regulation in our model. Our findings provide significant insights into intracellular mechanisms underlying synaptic plasticity in the striatum.
In the adult brain, neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) is mainly localized in dentate granule cells, and its expression is decreased by various stimuli, e.g., seizure activity. We have examined the role of endogenous NT-3 for excitatory synaptic transmission at lateral perforant path-dentate granule cell synapses using hippocampal slices from NT-3 knock-out (+/-) and wild-type (+/+) mice. Paired-pulse facilitation (PPF) and also short-term synaptic plasticity induced by a brief, high-frequency train of afferent stimulation were reduced, but the expression of long-term potentiation was not affected in the NT-3+/- mice. Incubation of the slices with recombinant NT-3 reversed the deficit in PPF through a mechanism requiring de novo protein synthesis, implying that the impaired short-term plasticity does not result from a developmental alteration. No changes of overall presynaptic release probability, measured by the progressive block of NMDA receptor-mediated synaptic currents by MK-801, or desensitization of AMPA receptors were detected. Because NT-3 expression is reduced after focal seizures, impaired short-term facilitation may represent a protective response that limits the propagation of epileptiform activity from the entorhinal cortex to the hippocampus.
We have isolated a neurotrophin from the lamprey that permitted us to perform a phylogenetic analysis of the neurotrophin gene family that dates back more than 460 million years to the early vertebrate ancestors. The results show that the neurotrophin gene family was originally formed by two subsequent duplications. The duplication that formed nerve growth factor, neurotrophin-3, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, and neurotrophin-4/5 occurred after the split of lampreys but before the split of cartilaginous fish from the main vertebrate lineage. Compilation of chromosomal gene maps around the neurotrophins shows that they are located in paralogous regions, suggesting that the genes were formed at major duplication events possibly by complete genome doubling. Analysis of two isolated Trk receptor sequences shows similar results as for the lamprey neurotrophin. Multiple neurotrophin and Trk genes, including neurotrophin-6 and -7, have been found in bony fish, and we suggest that the extra genes were formed by an additional duplication in the bony fish lineage. Analysis of lamprey Trk mRNA expression in the adult brain shows that the genes are expressed in all regions analyzed so far. Together, the results suggest that the duplications of ancestral neurotrophin and Trk genes at an early vertebrate stage have permitted evolution to bring about differential neurotrophin and Trk expression, thereby allowing the formation of specific functions in selective neuronal populations.
D2L dopamine receptor activation results in rapid inhibition and delayed heterologous sensitization of adenylate cyclase in several host cell types. The D2L dopamine receptor was stably transfected into NS20Y neuroblastoma cells to examine inhibition and sensitization in a neuronal cell environment and to identify the particular G-proteins involved. Acute activation of D2L receptors with the selective D2 agonist quinpirole inhibited forskolin-stimulated cAMP accumulation, whereas prolonged incubation (2 hr) with quinpirole resulted in heterologous sensitization (more than twofold) of forskolin-stimulated cAMP accumulation in NS20Y-D2L cells. To unambiguously identify the pertussis toxin (PTX)-sensitive G-proteins responsible for inhibition and sensitization, we used viral-mediated gene delivery to assess the ability of genetically engineered PTX-resistant G-proteins (Galphai1*, Galphai2*, Galphai3*, and Galphao*) to rescue both responses after PTX treatment. The expression and function of individual recombinant G-proteins was confirmed with Western blotting and inhibition of GTPgammaS-stimulated adenylate cyclase, respectively. To assess the specificity of D2L-Galpha coupling, cells were infected with herpes simplex virus (HSV) recombinants expressing individual PTX-resistant G-protein alpha subunits and treated with PTX, and quinpirole-induced responses were measured. Infection of NS20Y-D2L cells with HSV-Galphao* rescued both inhibition and sensitization in PTX-treated cells, whereas infection with HSV-Galphai1*, HSV-Galphai2*, or HSV-Galphai3* failed to rescue either response. In summary, the current study provides strong evidence that the D2L dopamine receptor couples to Galphao in neuronal cells, and that this coupling is responsible for both the acute and subacute effects of D2 receptor activation on adenylate cyclase activity.
Molecular cloning has recently identified a vertebrate brain-specific Na+-dependent inorganic phosphate transporter (BNPI). BNPI has strong sequence similarity to EAT-4, a Caenorhabditis elegans protein implicated in glutamatergic transmission. To characterize the physiological role of BNPI, we have generated an antibody to the protein. Immunocytochemistry of rat brain sections shows a light microscopic pattern that is suggestive of reactivity in nerve terminals. Excitatory projections are labeled prominently, and ultrastructural analysis confirms that BNPI localizes almost exclusively to terminals forming asymmetric excitatory-type synapses. Although BNPI depends on a Na+ gradient and presumably functions at the plasma membrane, both electron microscopy and biochemical fractionation show that BNPI associates preferentially with the membranes of small synaptic vesicles. The results provide anatomic evidence of a specific presynaptic role for BNPI in glutamatergic neurotransmission, consistent with the phenotype of eat-4 mutants. Because an enzyme known as the phosphate-activated glutaminase produces glutamate for release as a neurotransmitter, BNPI may augment excitatory transmission by increasing cytoplasmic phosphate concentrations within the nerve terminal and hence increasing glutamate synthesis. Expression of BNPI on synaptic vesicles suggests a mechanism for neural activity to regulate the function of BNPI.
Current evidence suggests that the adaptation motor of mechanoelectrical transduction in vertebrate hair cells is myosin-Ibeta. Previously, confocal and electron microscopy of bullfrog saccular hair cells using an anti-myosin-Ibeta antibody labeled the tips of stereocilia. We have now done quantitative immunoelectron microscopy to test whether myosin-Ibeta is enriched at or near the side plaques of tip links, the proposed sites of adaptation, using hair bundles that were serially sectioned parallel to the macular surface. The highest particle density occurred at stereocilia bases, close to the cuticular plate. Also, stereocilia of differing lengths had approximately the same number of total particles, suggesting equal targeting of myosin-Ibeta to all stereocilia. Finally, particles tended to clump in clusters of two to five particles in the distal two-thirds of stereocilia, suggesting a tendency for self-assembly of myosin-Ibeta. As expected from fluorescence microscopy, particle density was high in the distal 1 micrometer of stereocilia. If myosin-Ibeta is the adaptation motor, a difference should exist in particle density between regions containing the side plaque and those excluding it. Averaging of particle distributions revealed two regions with approximately twice the average density: at the upper ends of tip links in a 700-nm-long region centered approximately 100 nm above the side plaque, and at the lower ends of tip links within the tip plaques. Controls demonstrated no such increase. The shortest stereocilia, which lack side plaques, showed no concentration rise on their sides. Thus, the specific localization of myosin-Ibeta at both ends of tip links supports its role as the adaptation motor.
Using a model of the extracellular space, we show how external calcium fluctuations, engendered during normal neural activity, can act as a rapid information-bearing signal in nervous systems. We demonstrate that action potentials propagating along a dendrite can induce large peri-dendritic calcium fluctuations, lowering significantly the external calcium available to overlying presynaptic terminals. The geometrical distribution of active calcium sinks critically influences the time and spatial extent of fluctuations in external calcium. In particular, clusters of coactive dendrites can prolong and amplify an external calcium fluctuation. This latter effect provides a natural substrate for a computational mechanism that locates specific volumes of neural tissue on rapid time scales. Such an interpretation suggests that the detailed structure of the extracellular space, in combination with the three-dimensional distribution of active calcium sinks, may play a role in neural information processing.
A new nonenzymatic method for the acute isolation of astrocytes from rat cerebral cortex is described. A vibratory device was used to dissociate the cells from thin brain slices, and the method yielded fresh and relatively well-preserved astrocytes without previous enzyme incubation. These cells were examined in a microspectrofluorometric system for measurement of changes in intracellular free calcium concentrations ([Ca2+]i), and their expression of various neurotransmitter receptors was determined. Acutely isolated glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-positive astrocytes (p7-p18) were seen to respond to the metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist (1S,3R)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (ACPD, 10(-4) M) with increases in [Ca2+]i, and this response was blocked by (RS)-1-aminoindan-1,5 dicarboxylic acid (AIDA, 10(-3) M), an antagonist to group 1 metabotropic glutamate receptors. The delta-opioid receptor agonist D-Pen2, D-Pen5-enkephalin (DPDPE, 10(-6) M) evoked [Ca2+]i increases that were blocked by the delta-opioid antagonist ICI 174.388 (10(-5) M). The astrocytes failed to respond to 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT, 10(-5) M), although the same cells subsequently were found to respond to other agonists. Furthermore, [Ca2+]i responses evoked by phenylephrine (10(-5) M) were blocked by prazosin (0.2x10(-6) M), suggesting the expression of alpha1-adrenergic receptors on the acutely isolated astrocytes. The cells were also shown to react with [Ca2+]i increases in response to depolarization with high extracellular potassium concentrations (50x10(-3) M). The signals induced by depolarization were not seen in Ca2+-free buffer, indicating the presence of voltage-activated calcium channels in these cells. Thus, the present study confirms some of the results earlier obtained in cell cultures, suggesting that cortical astrocytes in vivo express glutamate, opiate, and adrenergic receptors, coupled to increases in [Ca2+]i, whereas no receptors for 5-HT could be detected.

Norepinephrine (NE) transporters (NETs) found in the neuronal plasma membrane mediate the removal of NE from the extracellular space, limiting the activation of adrenoceptors at noradrenergic synapses. Our previous studies with the noradrenergic neuroblastoma SK-N-SH have revealed a muscarinic receptor-triggered regulation of NET surface density and transport capacity, mediated in part by protein kinase C activation. Low abundance of NET proteins in this native cell model, however, preclude direct confirmation of altered trafficking of NET proteins. In our study, we monitored the activity and surface distribution of human NET proteins in transient and stably-transfected cell lines after application of kinase activators and inhibitors. Using hNET stably transfected HEK-293 and LLC-PK1 cells, as well as transiently transfected COS-7 cells, we demonstrate that PKC-activating phorbol esters, beta-PMA or beta-PDBu selectively diminish l-NE transport capacity (Vmax) with little change in NE Km. Effects of phorbol esters are rapid, stereospecific and blocked by protein kinase C inhibitors, staurosporine and bisindolylmaleimide I. As in SK-N-SH cells, beta-PMA induces a reduction in intact cell [3H]nisoxetine binding sites with no change in nisoxetine Kd or total membrane NET density. Cell-surface biotinylation and confocal immunofluorescence techniques confirm that protein kinase C-dependent reductions in NE transport capacity and whole-cell antagonist binding density are accompanied by reductions in cell-surface human NET protein expression. Together these findings argue for kinase-modulated protein trafficking as a potential route for acute regulation of antidepressant-sensitive NE clearance.
Using SK-N-SH cells, we observe that muscarinic acetylcholine receptor activation by methacholine (MCh) rapidly and selectively diminishes l-NE transport capacity (Vmax) with little or no change in norepinephrine (NE) Km and without apparent effects on membrane potential monitored directly under current clamp. Over the same time frame, MCh exposure reduces the density of [3H]nisoxetine binding sites (Bmax) in intact cells but not in total membrane fractions, consistent with a loss of transport capacity mediated by sequestration of transporters rather than changes in intrinsic transport activity or protein degradation. Similar changes in NE transport and [3H]nisoxetine binding capacity are observed after phorbol ester (beta-PMA) treatment. Inhibition of PKC by antagonists and downregulation of PKC by chronic treatment with phorbol esters abolishes beta-PMA-mediated effects but produce only a partial blockade of MCh-induced effects. Neither muscarinic acetylcholine receptor nor PKC activation require extracellular Ca++ to diminish NET activity. In contrast, treatment of cells with the Ca++/ATPase antagonist, thapsigargin in Ca++-free medium, eliminates the staurosporine-insensitive component of MCh regulation. These findings were further corroborated by the ability of [1, 2-bis(o-amino-phenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid tetra(acetoxymethyl)ester application in Ca++-free medium to abolish NET regulation by MCh. Although they may contribute to basal NET expression, we could not implicate CaMKII-, PKA- or nitric oxide-linked pathways in MCh regulation. Together, these findings 1) provide evidence in support of G-protein coupled receptor-mediated regulation of catecholamine transport, 2) reveal intracellular Ca++-sensitive, PKC-dependent and -independent pathways that serve to regulate NET expression and 3) indicate that the diminished capacity for NE transport evident after mAChR and PKC activation involves a redistribution of NET protein.
FAST and SLOW selected mouse lines were bred for differences in locomotor response to low-dose ethanol. FAST mice exhibit an extreme stimulant response and SLOW mice exhibit locomotor depression at the same ethanol dose. We tested the hypothesis that gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) systems modulate ethanol's stimulant effects by examining convulsant responses to GABAA receptor ligands, and by assessing the effects of GABAA and GABAB ligands on locomotor activity in the presence and absence of EtOH. FAST mice were more sensitive to the convulsant effects of GABAA drugs, and to one of two non-GABAergic drugs also tested. FAST and SLOW mice differed in locomotor responses to two benzodiazepines, but not to other GABAA receptor ligands. Ethanol's stimulant effects were not selectively altered by bicuculline or picrotoxin. The selected lines differed in sensitivity to the locomotor depressant effects of the GABAB agonist, baclofen. Ethanol-stimulated activity of FAST mice was inhibited by baclofen, and this effect was reversed by administration of the GABAB antagonist, CGP-35348. These GABAB receptor mediated effects were replicated in DBA/2J inbred mice that exhibit extreme sensitivity to ethanol's stimulant effects. In summary, we found moderate to strong evidence that some sites on the GABAA receptor complex were altered as a consequence of selection of FAST and SLOW mice, but found little support for GABAA mediation of EtOH-stimulated activity. In contrast, we found moderate evidence for differential alteration of GABAB receptor function; however, GABAB receptor involvement in ethanol-stimulated activity was strongly supported by results in the selected lines and an inbred strain.
The neuroprotective efficacy of YM872, a novel, highly water-soluble alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid receptor antagonist, was investigated in rats subjected to permanent occlusion of the left middle cerebral artery. The rats were assessed either histologically or neurologically 24 hr or 1 wk after ischemia. YM872 was intravenously infused for either 4 or 24 hr at dose rates of 0 to 20 mg/kg/hr starting 5 min after ischemia to examine the effect of prolonged treatment. YM872 was then infused at 20 mg/kg/hr beginning 0 to 4 hr after ischemia to determine the efficacy time window. Additionally, a 20 mg/kg/hr dose rate of YM872 was infused for 4 hr in single day- or 5-day repetitive-administrations to evaluate long-term benefits of the drug. YM872 significantly reduced infarct volume in both 4- and 24-hr treatment groups measured 24 hr after ischemia. No difference was observed in the degree of protection between length of infusion. Significant neuroprotection was maintained even when drug administration was delayed up to 2 hr after ischemia. A single YM872-administration significantly improved neurological deficit and reduced infarct volume (30%, P &lt;.01) measured 1 wk after ischemia. YM872 treatment did not induce such adverse effects as physiological changes, serious behavioral abnormalities or nephrotoxicity. These data suggest that the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid receptor plays a crucial role in the progression of neuronal damage in the early phase of ischemia and that YM872 may be useful in treating acute ischemic stroke.
The aim of our study was to investigate the changes that occur in functional responses of the golden hamster mesenteric arterial bed after: 1) 8 wk of hibernation and 2) 2 hr after arousal from hibernation. Age-matched and cold-exposed hamsters were used as controls. At 8 wk after hibernation there was an increase in sensitivity of vasoconstrictor responses to sympathetic nerve stimulation but no significant difference in constrictor responses to norepinephrine, alpha,beta-methylene ATP, uridine 5'-triphosphate or KCl (studied in unconstricted preparations), or in endothelium-dependent vasodilatation to acetylcholine and uridine 5'-triphosphate (in methoxamine-preconstricted preparations) compared with the control groups. In contrast, in the arousal from hibernation group, sympathetic vasoconstriction was similar to that in the control groups, and the maximal response to exogenous norepinephrine, and responses to alpha,beta-methylene ATP were augmented. These results suggest that there is an augmentation of sympathetic neurotransmission of golden hamster mesenteric arteries at 8 wk after hibernation, which appears to be due to pre- rather than postjunctional changes. This is reversed with arousal from hibernation, when the sensitivity of sympathetic contractile responses is not different from that of the controls. However, an increase in maximal constrictor responses to norepinephrine suggests that postjunctional changes may occur in sympathetic neurotransmission during arousal.
We identified regions within the N-terminal extracellular domain of alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors that affect channel gating. By single-channel analysis of alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors currents, we show that the difference in efficacy between the two agonists acetylcholine and 1,1-dimethyl-4-phenylpiperazinium (DMPP) is due to a slower channel activation rate by DMPP. The partial efficacy of DMPP was not caused by channel block or faster desensitization of alpha7 AChRs by DMPP. In addition, the efficacy and, by inference, the activation rate were found to be voltage dependent. Using chimeras of the two closely related subunits alpha7 and alpha8, we map residues that affect channel activation rate and agonist affinity to two different regions of the extracellular domain. Residues that affect channel activation rate are within the sequence 1-179, whereas residues that affect agonist affinity are within the sequence 180-208.
1. The present study assessed local regulation of vascular tone of euthermic (control), cold control and hibernating golden hamsters. Sympathetic neurotransmission in the renal artery, the long term effects of hibernation on perivascular nerve activity, and the responsiveness of femoral artery to a number of neurotransmitters and hormones with both constrictor and dilator actions during hibernation are described. 2. The contractile responses of the renal arterial rings to transmural nerve stimulation (80 V, 0.1 ms, 4-64 Hz, for 1 s) were negligible in controls, significantly increased at higher frequencies of stimulation in cold controls and markedly enhanced in the hibernating group at all frequencies tested. The contractile responses to exogenous noradrenaline (NA; 0.1-100 microM) were significantly increased in the renal arteries of hibernating hamsters compared with controls, but not compared with cold controls. Responses to exogenous ATP (1-3000 microM) and KCl (120 mM) were similar among all experimental groups. 3. The maximal contractile responses of femoral arterial rings to the sympathetic co-transmitter ATP and 5-hydroxytryptamine were increased by approximately 124% and 99%, respectively, in hibernating compared with cold control preparations without a change in the concentration of agonist that produces half-maximal response. However, the responses to NA were not altered during hibernation. 4. Vasoconstriction of femoral arterial rings in response to arginine vasopressin was significantly enhanced in both cold controls and hibernating groups, while vasoconstriction in response to endothelin-1 and KCl was unaltered. 5. The dilator responses of femoral arterial rings to acetylcholine, sodium nitroprusside and adenosine were not different among the groups. 6. It is suggested that the marked augmentation of sympathetic neurotransmission, selective supersensitivity of the vascular smooth muscle to sympathetic contractile agents and unaltered vasodilatory mechanisms may provide a means for maintenance of vascular tone and peripheral resistance during hibernation.
1. Perturbations of arterial blood pressure change medullary raphe neurone activity and the respiratory motor pattern. This study sought evidence for actions of baroresponsive raphe neurones on the medullary respiratory network. 2. Blood pressure was perturbed by intravenous injection of an alpha1-adrenergic receptor agonist, unilateral pressure changes in the carotid sinus, or occlusion of the descending aorta in thirty-six Dial-urethane-anaesthetized, vagotomized, paralysed, artificially ventilated cats. Neurones were monitored with microelectrode arrays in two or three of the following domains: nucleus raphe obscurus-nucleus raphe pallidus, nucleus raphe magnus, and rostral and caudal ventrolateral medulla. Data were analysed with cycle-triggered histograms, peristimulus time and cumulative sum histograms, cross-correlograms and spike-triggered averages of efferent phrenic nerve activity. 3. Prolongation of the expiratory phase and decreased peak integrated phrenic amplitude were most frequently observed. Of 707 neurones studied, 310 had altered firing rates during stimulation; changes in opposite directions were monitored simultaneously in fifty-six of eighty-seven data sets with at least two baroresponsive neurones. 4. Short time scale correlations were detected between neurones in 347 of 3388 pairs. Seventeen pairs of baroresponsive raphe neurones exhibited significant offset correlogram features indicative of paucisynaptic interactions. In correlated raphe-ventrolateral medullary neurone pairs with at least one baroresponsive neurone, six of seven ventrolateral medullary decrementing expiratory (E-Decr) neurones increased their firing rate during baroreceptor stimulation. Thirteen of fifteen ventrolateral medullary inspiratory neurones correlated with raphe cells decreased their firing rate during baroreceptor stimulation. 5. The results support the hypothesis that raphe neuronal assemblies transform and transmit information from baroreceptors to neurones in the ventral respiratory group. The inferred actions both limit and promote responses to sensory perturbations and match predictions from simulations of the respiratory network.


The aim of the study was to study factors related to anxiety, depression, and suicidal ideation among HIV-seropositive heterosexuals soon after being tested for their HIV status for the first time. Anxiety, depression, and suicidal ideation were assessed among 51 HIV-seropositive heterosexual men and women with various stages of HIV infection. All assessments were done between 4 and 6 weeks after revelation of positive serostatus. Psychosocial variables such as quality of family relationships and substance use and sociodemographic details such as gender, income, education, and residence were studied for their association with psychiatric morbidity. Illness details studied for their association with psychiatric morbidity included stage of HIV infection, spouse's HIV status, presence of physical illness, and pain. Depression was present in 40% and anxiety in 36% of the sample. Serious suicidal intent was seen in 14%. Multiple regression analysis indicated that presence of pain, concurrent alcohol abuse, poor family relations, and presence of AIDS in the spouse were significant factors associated with depression, anxiety, and suicidal ideation.
Clomethiazole is a drug with sedative properties effective in laboratory studies of brain ischemia. A large European multicenter trial of clomethiazole in acute stroke patients showed no benefit overall, but subgroup analysis indicated that patients with large infarctions may have benefited from treatment. To confirm this preliminary finding, we have designed CLASS-IHT, the Clomethiazole for Acute Stroke Study in Ischemic, Hemorrhagic and TPA Treated Patients, to be conducted in North America. Patients who suffer large cerebral infarctions and present within 12 hours of symptom onset are eligible. Patients will be randomized to receive clomethiazole 68 mg/kg over 24 hours or vehicle, using a dosing scheme based on the pharmacokinetics measured in the first trial. Outcome assessments include stroke scales, the Barthel Index, and lesion volume. An additional study of health economic outcomes is planned. The primary endpoint for CLASS-I will be the Barthel Index 90 days after stroke. A total of 1,200 patients will be randomized to CLASS-I, and in safety-only trials, 200 patients with cerebral hemorrhage will be randomized into CLASS-H and another 100 to 200 patients will be randomized into CLASS-T. The details of the protocols for all three studies are presented.
When the swine alphaherpesvirus pseudorabies virus (PRV) infects the rat retina, it replicates in retinal ganglion cells and invades the central nervous system (CNS) via anterograde transynaptic spread through axons in the optic nerve. Virus can also spread to the CNS via retrograde transport through the oculomotor nucleus that innervates extraocular muscles of the eye. Since retrograde infection of the CNS precedes anterograde transynaptic infection, the temporal sequence of infection of the CNS depends on the route of invasion. Thus, motor neurons are infected first (retrograde infection), followed by CNS neurons innervated by the optic nerve (anterograde transynaptic infection). This temporal separation in the appearance of virus in separate groups of neurons enabled us to compare the immune responses to different stages of CNS infection in the same animal. The data revealed focal trafficking of peripheral immune cells into areas of the CNS infected by retrograde or anterograde transport after PRV Becker was injected into the vitreous body of the eye. Cells expressing the leukocyte common antigen, CD45(+), entered the area of infection from local capillaries prior to any overt expression of neuropathology, and quantitative analysis demonstrated that the number of cells increased in proportion to the number of infected neurons within a given region. Recruitment of cells of monocyte/macrophage lineage began prior to the appearance of CD8(+) cytotoxic lymphocytes, which were, in turn, followed by CD4(+) lymphocytes. These data demonstrate that PRV replication in CNS neurons stimulates the focal infiltration of specific classes of CD45(+) cells in a time-dependent, temporally organized fashion that is correlated directly with the number of infected neurons and the time that a given region has been infected.
Feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV) is a lentivirus that causes immune suppression and neurological disease in cats. Among animal viruses, individual viral strains have been shown to be neurovirulent, but the role of viral strain specificity among lentiviruses and its relationship to systemic immune suppression in the development of neurological disease remains uncertain. To determine the extent to which different FIV strains caused neurological disease, FIV V1CSF and Petaluma were compared in ex vivo assays and in vivo. Both viruses infected and replicated in macrophage and mixed glial cell cultures at similar levels, but V1CSF induced significantly greater neuronal death than Petaluma in a neurotoxicity assay. V1CSF-infected animals showed significant neurodevelopmental delay compared to the Petaluma-infected and uninfected animals. Magnetic resonance spectroscopy studies of frontal cortex revealed significantly reduced N-acetyl aspartate/creatine ratios in the V1CSF group compared to the other groups. Cyclosporin A treatment of Petaluma-infected animals caused neurodevelopmental delay and reduced N-acetyl aspartate/creatine ratios in the brain. Reduced CD4(+) and CD8(+) cell counts were observed in the V1CSF-infected group compared to the uninfected and Petaluma-infected groups. These findings suggest that neurodevelopmental delay and neuronal injury is FIV strain specific but that systemic immune suppression is also an important determinant of FIV-induced neurovirulence.
Characteristics of the binding of [3H]ramosetron to cloned human 5-hydroxytryptamine3 (5-HT3) receptors were investigated and directly compared to those of [3H]granisetron binding. Saturation studies revealed that [3H]ramosetron labeled more sites with high affinity (Kd=0.15+/-0.01 nM, Bmax =653 +/- 30 fmol/mg protein) than [3H]granisetron (Kd=1.17+/-0.25 nM, Bmax=427+/-43 fmol/mg protein). Kinetic studies revealed that dissociation of [3H]ramosetron was slower than that of [3H]granisetron. These results suggest that ramosetron is a highly potent 5-HT3-receptor antagonist.

Calcitriol modulates in vivoand in vitro cytokine production: A role for intracellular calcium. Background. Several immunomodulatory properties of calcitriol are currently known, however, only little information is available regarding the in vivo and in vitro effects of calcitriol on cytokine production in chronic renal failure. Methods. To study the in vitro effect of calcitriol on lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced cytokine production, peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC, 2.5 ml/ml) from 12 chronic dialytic (HD), 15 undialyzed chronic renal failure (CRF) patients and 10 normal subjects (N) were incubated at 37 degrees for 12 hours with 100 ng of LPS (E. coli and P. maltofilia). Increasing doses of calcitriol from 10-10 to 10-9 M were added and cell associated TNF-alpha and IL-1beta were determined by immunoreactive tests after three freeze-thaw cycles. The intradialytic TNF-alpha and IL-1beta production were evaluated in vivo in 12 HD patients before and after three months of intravenous calcitriol treatment (6 microgram/week). Intracellular calcium [Ca++]i was determined on PBMC with a cytofluorimetric assay using FLUO-3 AM as the indicator. Results. In vitro, TNF-alpha increased from 3.6 +/- 1.9 pg/cell to 1797 +/- 337 in N, from 4.5 +/- 1.7 to 1724 +/- 232 in CRF and from 3.4 +/- 2.3 to 1244 +/- 553 in HD after the LPS stimulus. The production of TNF-alpha was inhibited by calcitriol in a dose-dependent manner [LPS + Vit.D3 100 ng, 2.9 +/- 2.1 in N, 3.7 +/- 1.9 in CRF and 3.4 +/- 1.7 in HD; LPS + Vit.D3 50 ng, 263 +/- 296 (N), 6.73 +/- 11 (CRF), 38 +/- 28 (HD); LPS + Vit.D3 25 ng = 873 +/- 583 (N), 325 +/- 483 (CRF), 588 +/- 507 (HD); LPS + Vit.D3 12.5 ng, 954 +/- 483 (N), 912 +/- 510 (CRF), 875 +/- 527 (HD)]. Comparable data were observed on IL-1beta production. In vivo, the intradialytic TNF-alpha increase (from 8.5 +/- 2.3 to 19 +/- 5.6 pg/2.5 x 106 cell) during hemodialysis was markedly reduced after calcitriol therapy (from 6.6 +/- 3.1 to 11 +/- 4.7). [Ca++]i decreased from 105 +/- 25 to 72 +/- 18 nM (P &lt; 0.05) and a positive correlation between cytokine levels and [Ca++]i was found (r = 0.79; P &lt; 0.001). Conclusions. The in vitro increase of cell-associated cytokine after LPS challenge was inhibited by calcitriol in a dose-dependent manner. These data suggest a possible in vivo modulatory effect of calcitriol therapy on cytokine production in hemodialysis.
The cochlea and vestibular structures of the inner ear labyrinth develop from the otic capsule via step-wise regional and cell fate specification. Each inner ear structure contains a sensory epithelium, composed of hair cells, the mechanosensory transducers, and supporting cells. We examined the spatio-temporal expression of genes in the Notch signaling pathway, Notch receptors (Notch1-4) and two ligands, Jagged1 and Delta1, in the developing mammalian inner ear. Our results show that Notch1 and Jagged1 are first expressed in the otic vesicle, likely involved in differentiation of the VIIIth nerve ganglion neurons, and subsequently within the inner ear sensory epithelia, temporally coincident with initial hair cell differentiation. Notch1 expression is specific to hair cells and Jagged1 to supporting cells. Their expression persists into adult. Notch2, Notch3, Notch4, and Delta1 are excluded from the inner ear epithelia. These data support the hypothesis that Notch signaling is involved in hair cell differentiation during inner ear morphogenesis.
The determination of the volume of eye muscles is a problem of considerable interest in Graves' ophtalmopathy both with respect to the diagnostic quantisation of the disease and to the measured assessment of the effectiveness of pharmacological treatment. The aim of this research is to design and test an advanced method for processing computerised tomography (CT) orbital images in order to obtain a three-dimensional reconstruction of infra-orbital muscle structures and to analyse them from a morphometric viewpoint. CT images of subjects suffering from Graves' disease were acquired before and after pharmacological treatment with immunosuppressors. They were then processed along with CT images of an anatomical phantom of known volume and fusiform morphology in order to assess the reliability of the procedure and to calculate the effect of the different modalities of acquisition and processing of CT images on the error in volume calculation.
Actual therapeutic assays in spinocerebellar ataxias, i.e. in Friedreich's ataxia (FA) and olivopontocerebellar atrophy (OPCA) are discussed in relation to (i) the serotoninergic theory; (ii) the excitotoxic action of glutamate; and (iii) cerebrospinal fluid thiamine deficiency in ataxic patients. Data from the literature show that neurochemical deficiencies arising from cerebellar damage in both FA and OPCA patients are multiple. Assays of replacement and neuroprotective therapeutics with a single drug have produced controversial data or mildly effective results. Consequently, it is hypothesized that a drug cocktail, i.e. L-5-hydroxytryptophan, thiamine and amantadine hydrochloride, would be more beneficial. This cocktail proved to be useful in open studies, improving respiratory disorders in FA patients. More powerful inhibitors of N-methyl-D aspartate receptor channels should be tried initially in animal experiments.
This study provides further evidence for the notion, proposed by Dorfman (1994), that activation of sublexical components plays an important role in implicit memory for novel words. Priming in an identification task was observed consistently when nonwords were formed out of morphemes; weaker, more variable effects were observed when nonwords were composed of syllables or pseudosyllables. Priming was insensitive to changes in the surface features (type case) of the stimuli and was disrupted by rearrangement of the stimulus components. Results are interpreted in terms of the activation and integration of preexisting sublexical representations and as evidence against the role of newly established episodic or perceptual representations. It is concluded that findings of priming for novel information should not be taken as evidence against an activation view.
The central nervous system (CNS) is host to a significant population of macrophage-like cells known as microglia. In addition to these cells which reside within the parenchyma, a diverse array of macrophages are present in meningeal, perivascular, and other peripheral locations. The role that microglia and other CNS macrophages play in disease and injury is under intensive investigation, and functions in development and in the normal adult are just beginning to be explored. At present the biology of these cells represents one of the most fertile areas of CNS research. This article describes methodology for the isolation and maintenance of microglia in cell cultures prepared from murine and feline animals. Various approaches to identify microglia are provided, using antibody, lectin, or scavenger receptor ligand. Assays to confirm macrophage-like functional activity, including phagocytosis, lysosomal enzyme activity, and motility, are described. Findings regarding the origin and development of microglia and results of transplantation studies are reviewed. Based on these data, a strategy is presented that proposes to use the microglial cell lineage to effectively deliver therapeutic compounds to the CNS from the peripheral circulation.
Studies using primary cultures of astrocytes have made essential contributions to the understanding of astrocytic functions and neuronal-astrocytic interactions. The purposes of this article are to (i) outline principles and methodologies used in the preparation of such cultures and caveats for the interpretation of the observations made; (ii) summarize astrocytic functions in turnover of the amino acid transmitters glutamate and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), in energy metabolism and in Na+,K+-ATPase-catalyzed processes and emphasize the degree to which the observations have been confirmed in intact tissue; (iii) describe regulations of astrocytic functions by transmitters and by calcium channel activity; and (iv) indicate suggestions for future functional studies using astrocytes in primary cultures and emphasize that some of the conclusions about neuronal-astrocytic interactions reached on the basis of studies in cultured cells and confirmed in intact tissue may not yet have been completely integrated into general neuroscience knowledge.
This article provides a broad overview of the significant roles that morphophysiologic analyses of organotypic cultures of neural tissues explanted in vitro-initiated during the 1950s-have played in stimulating the more recent development of techniques for transplantation of neural cells and tissues into specific regions of the central nervous system (CNS) in vivo. The demonstrations by Crain and co-workers in the 1950s and 1960s that fetal rodent and human CNS neurons can continue to develop a remarkable degree of mature structure and function during many months of complete isolation in culture provided crucial evidence that development of many organotypic properties of nerve cells is regulated by epigenetic factors that ensure rather stereotyped expression despite wide variations in environmental conditions. These in vitro studies strongly suggested that fetal neural cells should, indeed, be capable of even more highly organotypic development after transplantation in vivo, as has been elegantly demonstrated by many of the successful CNS transplantation studies reviewed here.
Roaz, a rat C2H2 zinc finger protein, plays a role in the regulation of olfactory neuronal differentiation through its interaction with the Olf-1/EBF transcription factor family. An additional role for the Roaz/Olf-1/EBF heterodimeric protein is suggested by its ability to regulate gene activation at a distinct promoter lacking Olf-1/EBF-binding sites. Using an in vitro binding-site selection assay (Selex), we demonstrate that Roaz protein binds to novel inverted perfect or imperfect repeats of GCACCC separated by 2 bp. We show that Roaz is capable of binding to a canonical consensus recognition sequence with high affinity (Kd = 3 nM). Analysis of the structural requirement for protein dimerization and DNA binding by Roaz reveals the role of specific zinc finger motifs in the Roaz protein for homodimerization and heterodimerization with the Olf-1/EBF transcription factor. The DNA-binding domain of Roaz is mapped to the N-terminal 277 amino acids, containing the first seven zinc finger motifs, which confers weak monomeric binding to a single half site and a stronger dimeric binding to the inverted repeat in a binding-site-dependent manner. Full-length protein can form dimers on both the inverted repeat and direct repeat but not on a single half site. These findings support the role of the TFIIIA-type Zn fingers in both protein-protein interaction and protein-DNA interaction and suggest distinct functions for specific motifs in proteins with a large number of zinc finger structures.
When C57BL/6J mice, 8 weeks of age, received 0.2% Cuprizone in their diet, extensive demyelination in corpus callosum was detectable after 3 weeks, and there was massive demyelination by 4 weeks. As expected, the accumulation of phagocytically active microglia/macrophages correlated closely with demyelination. When Cuprizone was removed from the diet, remyelination was soon initiated; after 6 weeks of recovery, myelin levels were near-normal and phagocytic cells were no longer prominent. Steady-state levels of mRNA for myelin-associated glycoprotein, myelin basic protein, and ceramide galactosyltransferase were already profoundly depressed after 1 week of Cuprizone exposure and were only 10-20% of control values after 2 weeks. Unexpectedly, upregulation of mRNA for these myelin genes did not correlate with initiation of remyelination but rather with accumulation of microglia/macrophages. After 6 weeks of exposure to Cuprizone, mRNA levels were at control levels or higher-in the face of massive demyelination. This suggests that in addition to effecting myelin removal, microglia/macrophages may simultaneously push surviving oligodendroglia or their progenitors toward myelination.
Over the past several years, neurotrophic factors-a description generally applied to naturally occurring polypeptides that support the development and survival of neurons-have made considerable progress from the laboratory into the clinic. Evidence from preclinical and clinical studies indicates that it may be possible to use neurotrophic factors to prevent, slow the progression of, or even reverse the effects of a number of neurodegenerative diseases and other types of insults in both the central nervous system (CNS) and the peripheral nervous system. Initially, investigations focused on recombinant neurotrophic proteins that are identical or highly homologous to the natural human sequence. Given the difficulties inherent with a protein therapeutic approach to treating nervous system disorders, especially those of the CNS, increasing attention has now turned to the development of alternative strategies and, in particular, small molecule mimetics. Regulation of the transcription of neurotrophic factors may provide a means of manipulating endogenous factor production; gene therapy may also allow for the circumvention of exogenous neurotrophic factor administration. The problem of transport across the blood-brain barrier may be overcome by developing small-molecule mimetics that maintain the neurotrophic activity of the protein while having improved pharmacokinetic and disposition characteristics. Components of neurotrophic factor signal transduction pathways may provide additional targets for novel drugs that can induce or modulate the responses normally activated by the binding of the neurotrophic factor to its receptor. This review focusses on some of the major themes and lines of mechanistic and therapeutic advances in this fast-moving field of neuroscience.
Resistance to cyclodiene insecticides is associated with replacements of a single amino acid (alanine 302) in a gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptor subunit encoded by the single-copy gene Resistance to dieldrin (Rdl). Alanine 302 is predicted to reside within the second membrane-spanning region of the Rdl receptor, a region that is thought to line the integral chloride ion channel pore. In all cyclodiene-resistant insects studied to date, this same alanine residue is replaced either by a serine, or, in some resistant strains of Drosophila simulans, a glycine residue. Therefore, individuals can carry only two different Rdl alleles. In contrast, here we report the presence of up to four different Rdl-like alleles in individual clones of the green peach aphid, Myzus persicae. In addition to the wild-type copy of Rdl gene (encoding A302 or allele A), M. persicae carries three other alleles with the following amino acid replacements: A302--&gt;Glycine (allele G), A302--&gt;SerineTCG (allele S) and A302--&gt;SerineAGT (allele S'). Evidence from direct nucleotide sequencing and Single Stranded Conformational Polymorphism (SSCP) analysis shows that at least three of these different Rdl alleles (i.e. A, G and S) are commonly present in individual aphids or aphid clones. Southern analysis using allele-specific probes and analysis of sequences downstream of the exon containing the resistance-associated mutation confirm the presence of two independent Rdl-like loci in M. persicae. One locus carries the susceptible alanine (A) and/or resistant glycine (G) allele while the other carries the two serine alleles (S or S'). Whereas resistance levels are correlated with the glycine replacement, the S allele was present in all aphid clones, regardless of their resistance status. These results suggest that target site insensitivity is associated with replacements at the first (A/G) but not the second (S/S') locus. Phylogenetic analysis of nucleotide sequences indicates that both putative aphid Rdl loci are monophyletic with respect to other insect Rdl genes and may have arisen through a recent gene duplication event. The implications of this duplication with respect to insecticide resistance and insect GABA receptor subunit diversity are discussed.
Several studies have indicated that patients with bipolar disorder (BD) who respond well to lithium prophylaxis constitute a biologically distinct subgroup. Lithium is thought to stabilize mood by acting at the phosphoinositide cycle. We have investigated a polymorphism located in the gene (PLCG1) that codes for a gamma-1 isozyme of phospholipase (PLC), an enzyme that plays an important role in the phosphoinositide second messenger system. A population-based association study and a family-based linkage study were carried out on patients who were considered excellent responders to lithium prophylaxis. Response to lithium was evaluated prospectively with an average follow-up of 14.4 +/- 6.8 years. The PLCG1 polymorphism was investigated in 136 excellent lithium responders and 163 controls. In addition, the segregation of this marker was studied in 32 families ascertained through lithium-responsive bipolar probands. The allele distributions between lithium-responsive bipolar patients and controls were different, with a higher frequency of one of the PLCG1 polymorphisms in patients (chi2 = 8.09; empirical P = 0.033). This polymorphism, however, confers only a small risk (OR = 1.88, CI 1.19-3.00). Linkage studies with the same marker yielded modest support for the involvement of this gene in the pathogenesis of BD when unilineal families were considered (Max LOD = 1.45; empirical P = 0.004), but not in the whole sample. Our results provide preliminary evidence that a PLC isozyme may confer susceptibility to bipolar disorder, probably accounting for a fraction of the total genetic variance. Whether this polymorphism is implicated in the pathogenesis of BD or in the mechanism of lithium response remains to be determined.
A missense mutation in the human alpha synuclein gene was recently identified in some cases of familial Parkinson's disease (FPD). We have developed an antibody that recognizes the C-terminal 12 amino acids of the human alpha synuclein protein and have demonstrated that alpha synuclein is an abundant component of the Lewy bodies found within the degenerating neurons of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). The presence of alpha synuclein in Lewy bodies of sporadic PD patients suggests a central role for alpha synuclein in the pathogenesis of PD.
The recent resurgent interest in functional surgery for the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD) has focused on the effects on akinesia and levodopa-induced dyskinesia. Stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) improves akinesia and rigidity but its effects on tremor have not been studied. The objective of this study was to assess the efficacy of STN stimulation on tremor in patients with the complete parkinsonian triad with motor fluctuations. Of 27 consecutive patients with STN stimulation (26 bilateral), 15 exhibited tremor rated at least 2/4 according to item 20 (rest tremor) of the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) in at least one limb. The mean preoperative tremor score was 11.3+/-5.6 in off-drug and 1.2+/-2.4 in on-drug conditions. The postoperative tremor scores at the last follow up (from 1-12 months) were 2.2+/-2.2 off-drug/on-stimulation and 0.2+/-0.4 on-drug/on-stimulation. Both rest and action tremors were improved in all patients. The UPDRS tremor score was reduced by 80%, rigidity score by 65%, and akinesia score by 51% on average. For the three symptoms, the stimulation effect was close to that induced before surgery by a suprathreshold dose of levodopa given in the morning. STN stimulation can be considered an interesting alternative to thalamic or internal pallidal surgery even in PD patients with severe high-amplitude tremor. In keeping with electrophysiological data in monkeys rendered parkinsonian by MPTP injections, our results emphasize the importance of the oscillation of a neuronal loop involving the STN in the pathophysiology of parkinsonian tremor.
Dyskinesias following long-term dopamine replacement therapy are a major limitation of current treatments for Parkinson's disease. Recently, attention has been focused on the concept of using non-dopaminergic adjuncts to currently available therapies in an attempt to reduce the problem of dyskinesia. Thus, an enhanced understanding of the neural mechanisms underlying dyskinetic symptoms has led to the realization that it might be possible to manipulate non-dopaminergic systems and reduce dyskinesia without compromising the anti-parkinsonian efficacy of drugs such as L-dopa. This article discusses how non-dopaminergic manipulations could reverse the abnormalities in basal ganglia circuitry responsible for generating dyskinesia. It is proposed that potential anti-dyskinetic drugs might include glutamate (NMDA) receptor antagonists, opioid receptor antagonists, cannabinoid receptor agonists or antagonists, alpha2 adrenergic receptor antagonists, and 5-HT-enhancing agents.


More than 40 point mutations (producing different clinical manifestations) have been described in diverse points of the plasma protein transthyretin (TTR). The Met30 is considered the most common mutation, the Tyr77 mutation being the second most prevalent. However, data from patients with this late mutation are scarce, and usually come from isolated case reports or tables. The Tyr77 mutation is not as well characterized as the Met30 mutation, especially with respect to such aspects as prognosis or possible treatment by liver transplantation. We therefore present the clinical and pathological features of an extensive family with the Tyr77 TTR mutation, comprising 12 affected individuals over four generations. Six living individuals were followed over a 10-year period. Retrospective data were obtained with regard to the deceased family members. We found that an initial and sometimes prolonged carpal tunnel syndrome, beginning between the 6th and 7th decades, characterizes the Tyr77 mutation. In most cases this evolved to generalized peripheral nerve involvement, restrictive cardiomyopathy, and intestinal malabsortion. Although survival is usually high, there are progressive cases that should be candidates for liver transplant, before severe impairment has developed.
Central motor conduction time, a useful measure for studying central motor pathways, is calculated by determining the difference between the latency of motor-evoked potentials and peripheral conduction time. The intraindividual trial-to-trial variability of central motor conduction time and the discomfort associated with three methods of measuring peripheral motor conduction time (F-wave latency, cervical magnetic stimulation, and cervical needle stimulation) were studied in 5 healthy subjects with the use of transcranial magnetic stimulation to elicit motor-evoked potentials. Central motor conduction time was calculated by using measurements, made on 3 separate days, from the same three muscles on each hand. A visual analog pain scale was used to determine the level of discomfort for each method. Intraindividual trial-to-trial variability of central motor conduction time was similar for all methods, with coefficients of variation of 13% for the F-wave latency, 15% for cervical magnetic stimulation, and 11% for cervical needle stimulation. The last method was significantly more painful than the other two methods; there was no significant difference in discomfort between the F-wave method and cervical magnetic stimulation. To assess peripheral motor conduction time, when determining central motor conduction time, either the F-wave method or cervical magnetic stimulation is preferable to cervical needle stimulation.
This study was performed to determine whether there is a difference in nerve conduction study (NCS) measures based on body fat (body mass index; BMI). Two hundred fifty-three subjects had the following NCS tests performed on them: median, ulnar, peroneal, and tibial motor studies; median, ulnar, radial, and sural sensory studies; median and ulnar mixed nerve studies; and H-reflex studies. BMI was calculated as weight (kg) divided by height (m) squared. A repeated measures analysis of variance was run adjusting for age, sex, and height and using BMI as both a continuous variable and by dividing BMI into upper, middle, and lower thirds. The sensory and mixed nerve amplitudes correlated significantly (P &lt; or = 0.01) with BMI for all nerves tested, with means being approximately 20-40% lower in the obese than in the thin subjects. No correlation was noted between BMI and nerve conduction velocity, H-reflex latency, or most of the other motor/sensory/mixed measures. The correlation between increased BMI and lower sensory/mixed nerve amplitudes should be taken into account in clinical practice.
Electrophysiological testing remains an important efficacy parameter in clinical neuropathy trials. The quality of nerve conduction studies in reported trials varies greatly, and may be responsible for negative results. We report the utilization of an expert core lab for electrophysiological testing. With the core lab, the variability of repeat testing is comparable to that of a single, excellent laboratory. Motor conduction velocities demonstrated a coefficient of variation of 3% and sensory conduction velocities 4% across 60 study sites. The distal motor evoked potential amplitudes varied by 13% at the ankle, and 10% at the wrist. The sensory potential amplitudes varied by 16% at the ankle, and 11% at the wrist in 60 sites. The overall monitoring rate in all submitted nerve conduction tracings was 36.6%. Our results show that an expert core lab can improve the electrophysiological quality of clinical trial data with the potential to show small changes in nerve conduction velocities and in both motor and sensory potential amplitudes.

The genesis of new cells, including neurons, in the adult human brain has not yet been demonstrated. This study was undertaken to investigate whether neurogenesis occurs in the adult human brain, in regions previously identified as neurogenic in adult rodents and monkeys. Human brain tissue was obtained postmortem from patients who had been treated with the thymidine analog, bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU), that labels DNA during the S phase. Using immunofluorescent labeling for BrdU and for one of the neuronal markers, NeuN, calbindin or neuron specific enolase (NSE), we demonstrate that new neurons, as defined by these markers, are generated from dividing progenitor cells in the dentate gyrus of adult humans. Our results further indicate that the human hippocampus retains its ability to generate neurons throughout life.
Ample evidence suggests that primary visual cortex is involved in the perception of form, and there is increasing evidence that it may also be important in the perception of surfaces. Perceptual qualities of surfaces, such as brightness, are based on extensive integration of information throughout the visual field. In primary visual cortex, we found that the responses of neurons to surfaces were also influenced by the intensity and organization of light in large portions of the visual field. Interactions with surrounding stimuli typically extended 10 to 20 degrees beyond a cell's receptive field the same spatial scale as perceptual interactions. Moreover, there were both facilitatory and inhibitory influences, just as there are additive and substractive perceptual interactions. Surprisingly, influences from outside the receptive field obtained with surface stimuli did not reliably correlate with influences recorded with gratings. These properties suggest that the underlying neuronal interactions may serve as the fundamental building blocks of surface perception.
Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) is an integral component of cellular signaling during mitogenesis and differentiation of mitotic cells. Recently MAPK activation in post-mitotic cells has been implicated in hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP), a potential cellular mechanism of learning and memory. Here we investigate the involvement of MAPK in learning and memory in behaving animals. MAPK activation increased in the rat hippocampus after an associative learning task, contextual fear conditioning. Two other protein kinases known to be activated during hippocampal LTP, protein kinase C and alpha-calcium/calmodulin protein kinase II, also were activated in the hippocampus after learning. Inhibition of the specific upstream activator of MAPK, MAPK kinase (MEK), blocked fear conditioning. Thus, classical conditioning in mammals activates MAPK, which is necessary for consolidation of the resultant learning.
Different types of neurotransmitter receptors coexist within single neurons and must be targeted to discrete synaptic regions for proper function. In chick ciliary ganglion neurons, nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) containing alpha 3 and alpha 5 subunits are concentrated in the postsynaptic membrane, whereas alpha-bungarotoxin receptors composed of alpha 7 subunits are localized perisynaptically and excluded from the synapse. Using retroviral vector-mediated gene transfer in vivo, we show that the long cytoplasmic loop of alpha 3 targets chimeric alpha 7 subunits to the synapse and reduces endogenous nAChR surface levels, whereas the alpha 5 loop does neither. These results show that a particular domain of one subunit targets specific receptor subtypes to the interneuronal synapse in vivo. Moreover, our findings suggest a difference in the mechanisms that govern assembly of interneuronal synapses as compared to the neuromuscular junction in vertebrates.

The neuroprotective effect of YM90K, a potent AMPA receptor antagonist, was examined in rats with permanent and transient occlusion of middle cerebral artery (MCA) using intraluminal suture occlusion method. In rats with permanent MCA occlusions, two types of occluders were used to compare the efficacy of YM90K. When a 4-0 (diameter: 0.19 mm) suture was used, YM90K (20 mg kg(-1) h(-1) i.v. infusion for 4 h) significantly reduced infarct volume (P&lt;0.05) and neurologic deficits (P&lt;0.05) 24 h after MCA occlusion. Infarct volume was also reduced by YM90K at the same dose (P&lt;0.01) when severe ischemia was induced by a 3-0 (diameter: 0.23 mm) suture. In rats with transient (3 h) MCA occlusions, a 10-mg kg(-1) h(-1) dose of YM90K that did not show significant protection in rats with permanent MCA occlusion offered neuroprotective effects. These data demonstrate that YM90K provides cerebral neuroprotection against a wide range of ischemic insults.
In the nucleus basalis of Meynert (NBM) we studied the presence of early cytoskeletal alterations as shown by the antibody Alz-50 in ApoE-typed patients. Using an image analysis system, the area covered by Alz-50 staining and the percentage of neurons stained by Alz-50 were determined. There were no significant differences in the area covered by Alz-50 or in the proportion of Alz-50-stained neurons in the nucleus basalis of Meynert of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients with one or two ApoE epsilon4 alleles as compared with those without any ApoE e4 allele. However, there was a significant sex difference in Alz-50 staining: female Alzheimer's disease patients showed more severe early cytoskeletal alterations than males. We also found a significant relationship between the number of Alz-50-stained neurons and the severity of dementia.
In the present study we investigated the effects of acute treatment with acetyl-L-carnitine (50 mg/kg, i.v. 90 min before the sodium cyanide injection) on a sodium cyanide-induced behavioral deficit in the Morris water escape task. In a first experiment the spatial discrimination performance of the rats was found to be dose-dependently impaired after an i.c.v. injection of sodium cyanide (2.5 and 5.0 microg). Acute treatment with acetyl-L-carnitine was found to increase the behavioral deficit after sodium cyanide. These findings were replicated in a second experiment. Based on these results it can be argued that an acute administration of acetyl-L-carnitine appears to potentiate a sodium cyanide-induced behavioral deficit. An additional in vitro experiment with rat brain synaptosomes showed clear effects of administered sodium cyanide on the energy-dependent incorporation of inositol into phosphoinositides and on the ATP concentration. In vitro acetyl-L-carnitine administration had no effect on the sodium cyanide-induced energy depletion. The negative behavioral findings are in contrast with our previously found protective effect of chronic treatment with acetyl-L-carnitine (via drinking water) on the sodium cyanide-induced behavioral deficit. Since chronic acetyl-L-carnitine treatment has no effect on the phosphoinositide metabolism it was suggested that acetyl-L-carnitine may act via the formation of an ATP-independent reservoir of activated acyl groups. Thus, fatty acids as acylated derivatives can be used for reacylation processes during an acute period of energy depletion. However, we have no clear explanation for the discrepancy in behavioral results between the chronic vs acute treatment of acetyl-L-carnitine at present. Further research is needed to characterize the mechanism of action of acetyl-L-carnitine in relation to sodium cyanide.
Neuropsychological studies of patients with category-specific recognition disorders, as well as PET investigations of semantic category effects in visual recognition tasks, have led some authors to the hypothesis that visual-perceptual knowledge plays a crucial role in the recognition of natural items, such as animals, while functional-associative information is more important for the recognition of man-made tools. To study the cerebral correlates of the retrieval of different types of semantic knowledge about living and nonliving entities, we performed a PET experiment in which normal subjects were required to access visual- and functional-associative information related to visually presented words corresponding to animals and tools. The experimental conditions were the following: (1) Rest. (2) Baseline: letter detection in pseudo-words. (3) Animal, visual knowledge: decide whether the animal has a long or short tail with respect to the body. (4) Animal, associative knowledge: decide whether the animal is typically found in Italy. (5) Tool, visual knowledge: decide whether the object is longer than wider or vice versa. (6) Tool, functional knowledge: decide whether the object is typically used as a kitchen tool. Lexical-semantic access (all lexical conditions pooled) activated the prefrontal cortex on the left and the parietal-occipital junction and posterior cingulate cortex bilaterally. An analysis of the individual experimental conditions in comparison with the nonword baseline showed that accessing visual versus associative knowledge was associated with different activation patterns: predominantly frontal in the case of visual features, temporoparietal for associative knowledge. While the activation patterns involved similar areas for living and nonliving entities, in the case of the latter they were restricted to the left hemisphere. The analysis of main effects confirmed these findings: there were several significant differences in the visual-associative comparison, while category-related differences were less prominent. These findings indicate that the retrieval of different types of knowledge is associated with distinct patterns of brain activation; on the other hand, category-related differences were less evident than in picture matching and naming tasks.
In fMRI studies, Gaussian filtering is usually applied to improve the detection of activated areas. Such lowpass filtering enhances the signal to noise ratio. However, undesirable secondary effects are a bias on the signal shape and a blurring in the spatial domain. Neighboring activated areas may be merged and the high resolution of the fMRI data compromised. In the temporal domain, activation and deactivation slopes are also blurred. We propose an alternative to Gaussian filtering by restoring the signal using a spatiotemporal Markov Random Field which preserves the shape of the transitions. We define some interaction between neighboring voxels which allows us to reduce the noise while preserving the signal characteristics. An energy function is defined as the sum of the interaction potentials and is minimized using a simulated annealing algorithm. The shape of the hemodynamic response is preserved leading to a better characterization of its properties. We demonstrate the use of this approach by applying it to simulated data and to data obtained from a typical fMRI study.
We investigated the detectability of task-related changes in the fMRI-signal in an averaged single trial design under systematic variation of intertrial intervals (ITI) in the range between 4 and 12 s. Investigation of the signal timecourses showed a shortening of the baseline period and subsequently a reduction in signal amplitude with decreasing ITI. The main finding is that effect size, i.e., the ratio of task-related signal changes and error variance remained approximately constant from ITI of 12 s down to 6 s. At ITI = 4 s, the effect size was reduced by about 50%. The effects of ITI reduction were comparable in all six cortical ROI which were analyzed. In two subcortical ROI, effect size was already reduced at longer ITI. At ITI = 4 s, the rising flank of the BOLD response was delayed compared to longer ITI. When the data were corrected for the temporal overlap of successive BOLD-responses, the signal amplitudes at ITI = 4 s were comparable to the amplitudes measured at an interval of 12 s. This indicated that the amplitude reduction was mainly due to a linear superposition of the contiguous BOLD-responses.
Nuclear MR spectroscopy in low and medium magnetic fields yields well-resolved natural abundance proton and decoupled phosphorus spectra from small (1-10 mL) volumes of brain in vivo in minutes. With this tool, neurochemical research has advanced through identification and noninvasve assay of a specific neuronal-cf2Ncf1-acetylaspartate, glial (cf2myocf1-inositol)-markers, energetics and osmolutes, and neurotransmitters (glutamate, GABA). From these simple measurements, several dozen disease states are recognized, including birth injury, and white matter and Alzheimer disease. Together, these tools are having a major impact on neuroscience and clinical medicine.

Several early studies suggested that spikes can be generated in the dendrites of CA1 pyramidal neurons, but their functional significance and the conditions under which they occur remain poorly understood. Here, we provide direct evidence from simultaneous dendritic and somatic patch-pipette recordings that excitatory synaptic inputs can elicit dendritic sodium spikes prior to axonal action potential initiation in hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons. Both the probability and amplitude of dendritic spikes depended on the previous synaptic and firing history of the cell. Moreover, some dendritic spikes occurred in the absence of somatic action potentials, indicating that their propagation to the soma and axon is unreliable. We show that dendritic spikes contribute a variable depolarization that summates with the synaptic potential and can act as a trigger for action potential initiation in the axon.
Hippocampal N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-dependent long-term synaptic depression (LTD) is associated with a persistent dephosphorylation of the GluR1 subunit of AMPA receptors at a site (Ser-845) phosphorylated by cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA). In the present study, we show that dephosphorylation of a postsynaptic PKA substrate may be crucial for LTD expression. PKA activators inhibited both AMPA receptor dephosphorylation and LTD. Injection of a cAMP analog into postsynaptic neurons prevented LTD induction and reversed previously established homosynaptic LTD without affecting baseline synaptic transmission. Moreover, infusing a PKA inhibitor into postsynaptic cells produced synaptic depression that occluded homosynaptic LTD. These findings suggest that dephosphorylation of a PKA site on AMPA receptors may be one mechanism for NMDA receptor-dependent homosynaptic LTD expression.
Brief bath application of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) to hippocampal slices produces long-term synaptic depression (LTD) in CA1 that is (1) sensitive to postnatal age, (2) saturable, (3) induced postsynaptically, (4) reversible, and (5) not associated with a change in paired pulse facilitation. Chemically induced LTD (Chem-LTD) and homosynaptic LTD are mutually occluding, suggesting a common expression mechanism. Using phosphorylation site-specific antibodies, we found that induction of chem-LTD produces a persistent dephosphorylation of the GluR1 subunit of AMPA receptors at serine 845, a cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) substrate, but not at serine 831, a substrate of protein kinase C (PKC) and calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII). These results suggest that dephosphorylation of AMPA receptors is an expression mechanism for LTD and indicate an unexpected role of PKA in the postsynaptic modulation of excitatory synaptic transmission.
In mossy fiber synapses of the hippocampal CA3 region, LTP is induced by cAMP and requires the synaptic vesicle protein rab3A. In contrast, CA1-region synapses do not exhibit this type of LTP. We now show that cAMP enhances glutamate release from CA3 but not CA1 synaptosomes by (1) increasing the readily releasable pool as tested by hypertonic sucrose; (2) potentiating release evoked by KCl depolarization, which opens voltage-gated Ca2+ channels; and (3) by enhancing Ca2+ action on the secretory apparatus as monitored by the Ca2+-ionophore ionomycin. In rab3A-deficient synaptosomes, forskolin still enhances KCl- and sucrose-induced glutamate release but not ionomycin-induced release. Our results show that cAMP has multiple actions in mossy fiber synapses, of which only the direct activation of the secretory apparatus requires rab3A and functions in mfLTP.
Neuropilins bind secreted members of the semaphorin family of proteins. Neuropilin-1 is a receptor for Sema III. Here, we show that neuropilin-2 is a receptor for the secreted semaphorin Sema IV and acts selectively to mediate repulsive guidance events in discrete populations of neurons. neuropilin-2 and semaIV are expressed in strikingly complementary patterns during neurodevelopment. The extracellular complement-binding (CUB) and coagulation factor domains of neuropilin-2 confer specificity to the Sema IV repulsive response, and these domains of neuropilin-1 are necessary and sufficient for binding of the Sema III semaphorin (sema) domain. The coagulation factor domains alone are necessary and sufficient for binding of the Sema III immunoglobulin- (Ig-) basic domain and the unrelated ligand, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). Lastly, neuropilin-1 can homomultimerize and form heteromultimers with neuropilin-2. These results provide insight into how interactions between neuropilins and secreted semaphorins function to coordinate repulsive axon guidance during neurodevelopment.
Both theoretical and experimental work have suggested that central neurons compensate for changes in excitatory synaptic input in order to maintain a relatively constant output. We report here that inhibition of excitatory synaptic transmission in cultured spinal neurons leads to an increase in mEPSC amplitudes, accompanied by an equivalent increase in the accumulation of AMPA receptors at synapses. Conversely, increasing excitatory synaptic activity leads to a decrease in synaptic AMPA receptors and a decline in mEPSC amplitude. The time course of this synaptic remodeling is slow, similar to the metabolic half-life of neuronal AMPA receptors. Moreover, inhibiting excitatory synaptic transmission significantly prolongs the half-life of the AMPA receptor subunit GluR1, suggesting that synaptic activity modulates the size of the mEPSC by regulating the turnover of postsynaptic AMPA receptors.
In sensory areas of neocortex, thalamocortical afferents project primarily onto the spiny stellate neurons of Layer 4. Anatomical evidence indicates that these cells receive most of their excitatory input from other cortical neurons, including other spiny stellate cells. Although this local network must play an important role in sensory processing, little is known about the properties of the neurons and synapses involved. We have produced a slice preparation of mouse barrel cortex that isolates Layer 4. We report that excitatory interaction between spiny stellate neurons is largely via N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) and that a given neuron contains more than one type of NMDAR, as distinguished by voltage dependence. Thus, spiny stellate cells act as effective integrators of powerful and persistent NMDAR-mediated recurrent excitation.
Neurotrophins influence growth and survival of specific populations of neurons through activation of Trks, members of the receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) family. In this report, we describe the identification and characterization of two substrates of Trk kinases, rAPS and SH2-B, which are closely related Src homolog 2 (SH2) domain-containing signaling molecules. rAPS and SH2-B are substrates of TrkB and TrkC in cortical neurons and SH2-B is a substrate of TrkA in sympathetic neurons. Moreover, rAPS and SH2-B bind to Grb2, and both are sufficient to mediate NGF induction of Ras, MAP kinase (MAPK), and morphological differentiation of PC12 cells. Lastly, antibody perturbation and transient transfection experiments indicate that SH2-B, or a closely related molecule, is necessary for NGF-dependent signaling in neonatal sympathetic neurons. Together, these observations indicate that rAPS and SH2-B mediate Trk signaling in developing neurons.

Thalamocortical neurons display a wide spectrum of activity patterns that are the expressions of the non-linear interactions between the various voltage-gated ion channels. Here, we show how bistable behaviour can emerge in these neurons, and how it is brought about by the steady-state residual (&quot;window&quot;) component of IT, the low-threshold Ca2+ current. In particular, we present results that describe the dependence of bistability on two system parameters: the injected current and the leakage conductance. In addition, we provide a biophysical interpretation of these results by means of the properties of the electrical circuit representing the neuron membrane.
Membrane currents elicited by colonic distension and by electrical stimulation of the intermesenteric nerve containing colonic afferent nerve fibres were recorded from neurons of the mouse superior mesenteric ganglion at 20 degrees C with the whole-cell patch-clamp method. Electrically-evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents reversed at -3.5 mV. At membrane holding voltages of -70 mV and -110 mV, the excitatory postsynaptic currents were characterized by a single exponential decay with a mean (+/- S.E.M.) time-constant of 17.5 +/- 1.3 ms and 15.5 +/- 2.3 ms, respectively. Colonic distension evoked a series of the excitatory postsynaptic currents which ranged in amplitude from 10 to 700 pA (at a membrane holding voltage of -70 mV). Hexamethonium (100 microM) applied only to the ganglion abolished both electrically- and distension-evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents, suggesting activation of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. The decay time-course of distension-evoked single excitatory postsynaptic currents was characterized by one, or, less commonly, by two exponentials. The decay time-constant histograms of distension-evoked single excitatory postsynaptic currents exhibited main kinetic components of 8.1 +/- 2.3 ms and 8.2 +/- 2.5 ms (peak +/- S.D.) at -70 and -110 mV membrane holding voltages, respectively. Longer time-constants ranging up to 51 ms were also observed. The number of the distension-evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents with a decay time-constant higher than 20 ms, as well as their mean amplitude, were significantly lower at -110 mV than at -70 mV membrane potential levels, in contrast to the currents with a decay time-constant lower than or equal to 20 ms. The results suggest that colonic afferent nerve fibres activate in the mouse superior mesenteric ganglion neurons a few populations of the postsynaptic nicotinic acetylcholine receptors with different channel kinetics, which are characterized by a lack of voltage sensitivity within -70 to -110 mV membrane potential range, except those with comparatively slow channel kinetics, which are possibly blocked by membrane hyperpolarization.
The differential effects of 3-nitropropionic acid on cultured neurons and astrocytes (of cortical and striatal origin) were examined by studying intracellular Ca2+ changes using imaging techniques with fura-2. The neurons and astrocytes whose intracellular Ca2+ concentration was recorded were identified later by immunocytochemical staining for microtubule-associated protein 2 and glial fibrillary acidic protein, respectively. 3-Nitropropionic acid (1.7 mM) irreversibly increased intracellular Ca2+ in astrocytes (27%) and, to a significantly smaller extent, in neurons (10%). The latency to onset of the intracellular Ca2+ increase was longer in neurons (45 min) than in astrocytes (29 min). Thus, a differential susceptibility of astrocytes and neurons was observed. The 3-nitropropionic acid-induced astrocytic and neuronal Ca2+ accumulations were both due to influx of Ca2+, as the increases were absent in Ca2+-free medium. An inhibitor of the Na+-Ca2+ exchanger (2',4'-dichlorobenzamil), greatly reduced the intracellular Ca2+ increase in astrocytes, but not in neurons. This indicates that the intracellular Ca2+ increase in astrocytes is primarily mediated by a reverse operation of the Na+-Ca2+ exchange system, whereas in neurons it is mediated by a different mechanism. In addition, we noted that astrocytic cell death occurred in 9% of cells at 60 min or more after the start of a 40 min perfusion with 3-nitropropionic acid, while only 4% of neurons died. In astrocytes, cell death was preceded by blebbing of the cell membrane, and by a sustained increase in intracellular Ca2+ followed by an abrupt further elevation occurring just before cellular collapse. The present results indicate that astrocytes are more vulnerable than neurons to 3-nitropropionic acid-induced cellular Ca2+ overload and toxicity, and hence support the hypothesis that, in part, 3-nitropropionic acid-induced neurotoxicity could be secondary to astrocytic cell death caused by Ca2+ overload.
Stressful aggressive interaction stimulates central serotonergic activation in telencephalon as well as brainstem. Social roles can be distinguished by monoamine activity following aggression. Pairs of male lizards, Anolis carolinensis, were allowed to fight and form dominant/subordinate relationships. In micropunched regions of telencephalon, the greatest serotonergic changes occur in subordinate males. In hippocampal cortex and nucleus accumbens, subordinate males have increased 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid/serotonin at 1 h following the fight. In these areas the ratio gradually decreases over a week of cohabitation, as was previously reported for brainstem. Medial and lateral amygdala develop increased serotonergic activity more slowly, with the greatest increase being evident following a week of interaction. Turnover, serotonin and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid levels in amygdala escalate over the first week of interaction in subordinate males, and return to baseline by one month. In dominant males, the pattern is accelerated, with the most extensive serotonin system activity present at 1 h, then decreasing over a month. The patterns of serotonergic activation are so similar in hippocampus, nucleus accumbens and brainstem that a co-ordinated response may be involved in mediating short-term social stress and aggression. Similarly, medial and lateral amygdala exhibit corresponding, but delayed patterns in subordinate males, suggesting a co-ordinated response in these regions mediating longer-term stress responses. These data are consistent with rapid neuroendocrine stress modulation in dominant individuals, and delayed serotonergic activity changes in subordinate males.
Behavioural assessments were made of mutant mice lacking histamine H1 receptors to reveal the function of H1 receptors in the behaviour of mice. Exploratory behaviour of mice in a new environment was examined to discover whether the absence of H1 receptors in mice affects actions relating to their emotions. The H1 receptor-deficient mice showed a significant decrease in ambulation in an open field and on an activity wheel. Cognitive functions and anxiety were examined using passive avoidance response test and the elevated plus-maze test, respectively. The passive avoidance test did not show any change in latency. The elevated plus-maze test revealed that the transfer latency of the mutant mice was significantly prolonged, indicating that H1 receptors are partly associated with the control of anxiety. Aggressive behaviour was examined by a resident-intruder aggression test. When confronted with an intruder, the mutant mice attacked the intruder significantly slower and less frequently than did wild-type mice after a six-month isolation period. A formalin test and a forced swimming test were used to evaluate the nociceptive response and depressive or despairing state, respectively, of both groups. The mutant mice showed a significant decrease of nociceptive response in the late phase without affecting the early phase. There was no significant difference in the forced swimming test between the two groups. The brain content of monoamines and their metabolites was measured in the H1 receptor null and wild-type mice. The turnover rate of 5-hydroxytryptamine defined by the ratio of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid and 5-hydroxytryptamine was significantly increased in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus of H1 receptor null mice. These results support the previous pharmacological findings that histamine modulates various neurophysiological functions such as locomotor activity, emotion, memory and learning, nociception and aggressive behaviour through H1 receptors.
Fluoxetine is a serotonin re-uptake blocker commonly used to treat endogenous depression. The present experiments were carried out to assess the effects of fluoxetine on c-fos induction throughout the rat brain. In addition, intron-directed in situ hybridization analysis was used to examine fluoxetine regulation of corticotropin-releasing factor heteronuclear gene transcription in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. Because the actions of corticotropin-releasing factor are mediated by membrane-bound corticotropin-releasing factor type 1 receptors, we also evaluated the stimulation of such receptors after acute fluoxetine exposure. The immediate-early gene, c-fos, was markedly induced in several telencephalic and diencephalic brain structures. For instance, a strong hybridized signal was apparent 30 min after fluoxetine (10 mg/kg; intraperitoneal) administration in the caudate putamen, septal nucleus, bed nucleus of stria terminalis, anterodorsal preoptic area, paraventricular nucleus, supraoptic nucleus, ventromedial hypothalamus and posterior hypothalamic nucleus. In addition, c-fos-expressing neurons were also evident in discrete amygdaloid nuclei. This nuclear induction was brief in duration, as levels of the immediate-early gene were mostly undetectable 90 min after drug administration. In contrast to the extensive induction of c-fos by fluoxetine throughout the brain parenchyma, elevation of corticotropin-releasing factor heteronuclear RNA levels were confined exclusively to neurosecretory nerve cells of the paraventricular nucleus, with peak levels detected 30 min after fluoxetine exposure. Therefore, the time-course of corticotropin-releasing factor heteronuclear RNA closely paralleled that of c-fos. Significant changes in corticotropin-releasing factor type 1 receptor messenger RNA levels were also observed in the paraventricular nucleus but with a slow incremental biosynthesis of the receptor messenger RNA, as high levels were discernible only 360 min after fluoxetine treatment. Finally, we failed to detect sex-related differences in the acute response to fluoxetine, as both female and male rat brains showed a comparable induction of c-fos, corticotropin-releasing factor heteronuclear RNA and corticotropin-releasing factor type 1 receptor expression within parvocellular neurosecretory nerve cells that govern the stress response. All of these findings are discussed in terms of specific sequences of nuclear events that couple fluoxetine-based serotonin input with changes in gene expression in selective neurons.
Cholinergic basal forebrain neurons appear to play a key role in cognition and attention. In rat, basal forebrain neurons express multiple proteins including the high-affinity signal transducing tyrosine kinase A receptor for nerve growth factor, the neuropeptide galanin and nitric oxide synthase, a marker for the novel neurotransmitter nitric oxide. The present study was undertaken to define the relationship between neurons expressing each of these markers within the medial septum-vertical limb of the diagonal band, horizontal limb of the diagonal band and nucleus basalis in colchicine pre-treated rats. Tyrosine kinase A-immunopositive neurons were seen throughout all subfields of the basal forebrain. In contrast, nitric oxide synthase- and galanin-immunoreactive neurons were mainly distributed within the septal-diagonal band complex. Co-localization experiments revealed that virtually all nitric oxide synthase-positive neurons (visualized by nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase histochemistry) also contained tyrosine kinase A, whereas many fewer tyrosine kinase A neurons were nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase positive within the medial septum-vertical limb of the diagonal band. Within the horizontal limb of the diagonal band, numerous nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase neurons expressed tyrosine kinase A, whereas only a small number of tyrosine kinase A neurons contained nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase. Within the nucleus basalis very few neurons were nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase reactive, and a minor number contained tyrosine kinase A. Additional co-localization experiments revealed minor percentages of neurons containing nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase and galanin immunoreactivity within the various subfields of the basal forebrain. Within the horizontal limb of the diagonal band minor numbers of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase-reactive perikarya displayed galanin. Similarly, only a few galanin-containing neurons expressed nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase. The existence of tyrosine kinase A, nitric oxide synthase and galanin within select neuronal subgroups of the cholinergic basal forebrain suggests that these perikarya are responsive to a complex set of chemical signals. A greater understanding of the chemical signature of the cholinergic basal forebrain neurons will provide the insight required to develop novel pharmacological approaches aimed at preventing or slowing the degenerative processes that effect these neurons in aging and pathologic disorders.
Nitric oxide and glucocorticoids have been implicated in learning and memory, as well as in regulation of the stress response. By use of the in situ hybridization technique, we examined the role of glucocorticoids in the regulation of nitric oxide synthase messenger RNA in the hippocampus. In control animals, nitric oxide synthase subtype I (neuronal) messenger RNA was expressed in the CA1, CA3 and dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. Nitric oxide synthase subtype I expression was almost absent in CA2 pyramidal neurons. Neither subtype II (immunological) nor subtype III (endothelial) nitric oxide synthase messenger RNAs were observed in neurons of the hippocampal subfields. Bilateral removal of the adrenal glands resulted in a significant increase in nitric oxide synthase subtype I messenger RNA expression in the CA1 and CA3 pyramidal neurons and in granular cells of the dentate gyrus. To a lesser degree, the nitric oxide synthase subtype I messenger RNA signal was increased in CA2 pyramidal neurons. Daily administration of glucocorticoids for one week attenuated the adrenalectomy-induced increased level of expression of the messenger RNA encoding nitric oxide synthase subtype I in all areas studied. Because adrenalectomy, which suppresses the production of glucocorticoids, increases nitric oxide synthase expression, and replacement of adrenalectomized animals with glucocorticoids restores the basal levels of nitric oxide synthase subtype I expression, our results demonstrate an up-regulation of nitric oxide synthase subtype I messenger RNA in the absence of glucocorticoids in the hippocampus. The present findings suggest an involvement of the stress axis in the regulation of the synaptic plasticity process mediated by nitric oxide in the hippocampus.
To explore the role of cell adhesion molecules in the innervation of the inner ear, antibody perturbation was used on histotypic co-cultures of the ganglionic and epithelial anlagen derived from the otocyst. When unperturbed, these tissues survived and differentiated in this culture system with outgrowth of fasciculated neuronal fibers which expressed neural cell adhesion molecule and L1. The fibers exhibited target choice and penetration, then branching and spreading within the otic epithelium as individual axons. Treatment of the co-cultures, or of the ganglionic anlagen alone, with anti-neural cell adhesion molecule or anti-L1 Fab fragments produced a defasciculation of fibers but did not affect neurite outgrowth. In the co-cultures this defasciculation was accompanied by a small increase in the number of fibers found in inappropriate tissues. However, the antibodies did not prevent fiber entry to the otic epithelium. In contrast, removal of polysialic acid from neural cell adhesion molecule with endoneuraminadase-N, while producing a similar fiber defasciculation, also increased the incidence of fibers entering the epithelium. Nevertheless, once within the target tissue, the individual fibers responded to either Fab or to desialylation by spreading out more rapidly, branching, and growing farther into the epithelium. The findings suggest that fasciculation is not essential for specific sensory fibers to seek out and penetrate the appropriate target, although it may improve their tracking efficiency. Polysialic acid on neural cell adhesion molecule appears to limit initial penetration of the target epithelium. Polysialic acid as well as neural cell adhesion molecule and L1 function are involved in fiber-target interactions that influence the arborization of sensory axons within the otic epithelium.
Sixteen phases in the microenvironments were defined for the structural development and innervation of the cochleo-vestibular ganglion and its targets. In each phase the cell adhesion molecules, neural cell adhesion molecule, neural cell adhesion molecule-polysialic acid, and L1-cell adhesion molecule, were expressed differentially by cochleo-vestibular ganglion cells, their precursors, and the target cells on which they synapse. Detected by immunocytochemistry in staged chicken embryos, in the otocyst, neural cell adhesion molecule, but not L1-cell adhesion molecule, was localized to the ganglion and hair cell precursors. Ganglionic precursors, migrating from the otocyst, only weakly expressed neural cell adhesion molecule. Epithelial hair cell precursors, remaining in the otocyst, expressed neural cell adhesion molecule, but not L1-cell adhesion molecule. Post-migratory ganglion cell processes expressed both molecules in all stages. The cell adhesion molecules were most heavily expressed by axons penetrating the otic epithelium and accumulated in large amounts in the basal lamina. In the basilar papilla (cochlea), cell adhesion molecule expression followed the innervation gradient. Neural cell adhesion molecule and L1 were heavily concentrated on axonal endings peripherally and centrally. In the rhombencephalon, primitive epithelial cells expressed neural cell adhesion molecule, but not L1-cell adhesion molecule, except in the floorplate. The neuroblasts and their axons expressed L1-cell adhesion molecule, but not neural cell adhesion molecule, when they began to migrate and form the dorsal commissure. There was a stage-dependent, differential distribution of the cell adhesion molecules in the floorplate. Commissural axons expressed both cell adhesion molecules, but their polysialic acid disappeared within the floorplate at later stages. In conclusion, the cell adhesion molecules are expressed by the same cells at different times and places during their development. They are positioned to play different roles in migration, target penetration, and synapse formation by sensory neurons. A multiphasic model provides a morphological basis for experimental analyses of the molecules critical for the changing roles of the microenvironment in neuronal specification.
Complementary RNA probes derived from complementary DNA specifically subcloned from monkey tissue were used to localize, by in situ hybridization histochemistry, the relatively rare alpha3, beta3 and gamma1 subunit transcripts of the GABA(A) receptor in visual cortex and lateral geniculate nucleus of normal monkeys and in monkeys that had been deprived of vision in one eye. Overall, levels of alpha3, beta3 and gamma1 subunit transcripts were very low. In the primary visual cortex (area 17) they were concentrated in layers II and VI and in a stratum of white matter subjacent to layer VI. The localization and density of the three messenger RNAs closely resembled those of other rare (alpha2, alpha5 and beta1) transcripts but their distribution also overlapped that of the predominant alpha1, beta2 and gamma2 subunit transcripts. In area 18, alpha3 and beta3 transcript distribution resembled that in area 17, with the addition of a third band of hybridization in layer IV for beta3. Gamma1 subunit transcript localization in area 18 differed significantly from that in area 17, with increased expression restricted to layer IV. In the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus, beta3 and gamma1 transcripts were expressed at low levels across all layers while alpha3 transcripts were restricted to the magnocellular layers. Following 15 and 18 day periods of monocular deprivation, induced by intravitreal injections of tetrodotoxin, levels of alpha3 receptor subunit transcripts showed modest reductions in layer VI of area 17 and in deprived geniculate laminae of adult animals. Reductions in alpha3 transcript levels were much more pronounced in layer IVCbeta of a five-month-old monkey deprived for the same time. Levels of beta3 and gamma1 transcripts were unaffected by monocular deprivation in cortex and geniculate at any age. Taken together with studies of other GABA(A) receptor transcripts, these results demonstrate the heterogeneity of GABA(A) receptor messenger RNA expression in the monkey geniculo-striate pathway and the varied response to reduced neuronal activity.
Evoked postsynaptic potentials of CA1 pyramidal neurons in rat hippocampus were studied during 48 h after severe ischemic insult using in vivo intracellular recording and staining techniques. Postischemic CA1 neurons displayed one of three distinct response patterns following contralateral commissural stimulation. At early recirculation times (0-12 h) approximately 50% of neurons exhibited, in addition to the initial excitatory postsynaptic potential, a late depolarizing postsynaptic potential lasting for more than 100 ms. Application of dizocilpine maleate reduced the amplitude of late depolarizing postsynaptic potential by 60%. Other CA1 neurons recorded in this interval failed to develop late depolarizing postsynaptic potentials but showed a modest blunting of initial excitatory postsynaptic potentials (non-late depolarizing postsynaptic potential neuron). The proportion of recorded neurons with late depolarizing postsynaptic potential characteristics increased to more than 70% during 13-24 h after reperfusion. Beyond 24 h reperfusion, approximately 20% of CA neurons exhibited very small excitatory postsynaptic potentials even with maximal stimulus intensity. The slope of the initial excitatory postsynaptic potentials in late depolarizing postsynaptic potential neurons increased to approximately 150% of control values up to 12 h after reperfusion indicating a prolonged enhancement of synaptic transmission. In contrast, the slope of the initial excitatory postsynaptic potentials in non-late depolarizing postsynaptic potential neurons decreased to less than 50% of preischemic values up to 24 h after reperfusion indicating a prolonged depression of synaptic transmission. More late depolarizing postsynaptic potential neurons were located in the medial portion of CA1 zone where neurons are more vulnerable to ischemia whereas more non-late depolarizing postsynaptic potential neurons were located in the lateral portion of CA1 zone where neurons are more resistant to ischemia. The result from the present study suggests that late depolarizing postsynaptic potential and small excitatory postsynaptic potential neurons may be irreversibly injured while non-late depolarizing postsynaptic potential neurons may be those that survive the ischemic insult. Alterations of synaptic transmission may be associated with the pathogenesis of postischemic neuronal injury.
Clinical studies have demonstrated that patients sustain prolonged behavioral deficits following traumatic brain injury, in some cases culminating in the cognitive and histopathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease. However, few studies have examined the long-term consequences of experimental traumatic brain injury. In the present study, anesthetized male Sprague-Dawley rats (n = 185) were subjected to severe lateral fluid-percussion brain injury (n = 115) or sham injury (n = 70) and evaluated up to one year post-injury for cognitive and neurological deficits and histopathological changes. Compared with sham-injured controls, brain-injured animals showed a spatial learning impairment that persisted up to one year post-injury. In addition, deficits in specific neurologic motor function tasks also persisted up to one year post-injury. Immunohistochemistry using multiple antibodies to the amyloid precursor protein and/or amyloid precursor protein-like proteins revealed novel axonal degeneration in the striatum, corpus callosum and injured cortex up to one year post-injury and in the thalamus up to six months post-injury. Histologic evaluation of injured brains demonstrated a progressive expansion of the cortical cavity, enlargement of the lateral ventricles, deformation of the hippocampus, and thalamic calcifications. Taken together, these findings indicate that experimental traumatic brain injury can cause long-term cognitive and neurologic motor dysfunction accompanied by continuing neurodegeneration.
The long-term effects of beta-amyloid peptide 1-40 injection into the rat forebrain were studied. Ten micrograms of pre-aggregated peptide were injected into the right nucleus basalis of male Wistar rats which were then killed four or six months later. Congo Red staining of histological sections showed that the peptide deposit was aggregated in a fibrillary form four months post-surgery, whereas at six months almost no trace of birefringency was detected at the deposit site, indicating a loss of fibril organization. This result was confirmed by electron microscopic analysis of the peptide deposits. The presence of the peptide at the injection site six months post-surgery was demonstrated by both Haematoxylin staining and beta-amyloid immunoreactivity. The number of choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive neurons was reduced by 66% in the injected nucleus basalis four months after injection. A decrease in cortical acetylcholine release was also found at this time. Concomitantly with the loss of fibril conformation, a complete recovery of choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity in the nucleus basalis and of acetylcholine release in the cortex was observed at six months. These data provide in vivo evidence that beta-amyloid neurotoxicity is related to the fibrillary conformation of the peptide aggregates, thus confirming previous in vitro studies.
There is evidence that motoneurons which die following neonatal nerve injury in rats do so through an excitotoxic mechanism. In this study, we have investigated whether this excitotoxicity induces motoneuron death by apoptosis. Sciatic motoneurons were prelabelled at birth with the retrograde tracing agent, Fast Blue, and the sciatic nerve was crushed in one leg two days later. At intervals up to 12 days, sections of the lumbar enlargement were analysed for apoptosis using propidium iodide and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase biotin-14-UTP nick end labelling techniques. A significant concentration of Fast Blue-labelled apoptotic motoneurons was seen in the area of the sciatic motor pool ipsilateral to the nerve injury, with the majority occurring in the first three days. Comparison of estimates of the time-course of apoptosis with that of motoneuron survival suggest that all motoneuron death induced during the first 12 days occurs by apoptosis and that the process is only recognizable for 2 h. Treatment with the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, dizocilpine maleate, reduced the level of apoptosis by 60%. Taken together, these data show that motoneurons which have been affected by an excitotoxic mechanism die by apoptosis. The apoptotic study also provides evidence, for the first time, that unilateral nerve injury induces motoneuron death in the contralateral sciatic motor pool. Apoptotic interneurons were also seen on both sides of the spinal cord as a result of nerve injury.
Mutations in the gene for presenilin 1 are causative for the majority of cases of early onset familial Alzheimer's disease. Yet, the physiological function of presenilin 1 and the pathological mechanisms of the mutations leading to Alzheimer's disease are still unknown. To analyse potential pathological effects of presenilin 1 over-expression, we have generated transgenic rats which express high levels of human presenilin 1 protein in the brain. The over-expression of presenilin 1 leads to saturation of its normal processing and to the appearance of full-length protein in the transgenic rat brain. The transgenic protein is expressed throughout the brain and is predominantly found in neuronal cells. Cultured primary cortical neurons derived from these transgenic rats are significantly more sensitive than non-transgenic controls to apoptosis induced by standard culture conditions and to apoptosis induced by trophic factor withdrawal. Furthermore, the observed apoptosis is directly correlated with the expression of the transgenic protein. The results further emphasize the role of presenilin 1 in apoptotic cell death in native neuronal cultures.
Many epidemiological studies suggest that use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs delays or slows the clinical expression of Alzheimer's disease, but the mechanism by which these drugs might affect pathophysiological processes relevant to Alzheimer's disease has been unclear. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are presumed to act by inhibiting cyclooxygenase, a key enzyme in the metabolism of membrane-derived arachidonic acid into prostaglandins. In recent years, two distinct isoforms of cyclooxygenase have been characterized, a constitutive form, cyclooxygenase-1, and a mitogen-inducible form, cyclooxygenase-2. Cyclooxygenase-2 has been identified in rodent brain. Excitotoxic lesions cause up-regulation of cyclooxygenase-2 expression coincident with the onset of expression of markers of apoptosis; cyclooxygenase-2 thus represents a possible target of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug action in neurodegenerative mechanisms. In the present study, we examined cyclooxygenase-2 gene expression in Alzheimer's disease and control cases. We found up-regulation of cyclooxygenase-2 expression in Alzheimer's disease frontal cortex. Further, we found that synthetic beta-amyloid peptides induced cyclooxygenase-2 expression in SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells in vitro, suggesting a mechanism for cyclooxygenase-2 up-regulation in Alzheimer's disease. These findings support the investigation of selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.
The topological distribution of mouse cadherin-8 protein in the neonatal and adult mouse brain was studied immunohistochemically using a rabbit antiserum. Cadherin-8 expression was restricted to several areas in neonatal brains constituting particular neural circuits, i.e. the limbic system, the basal ganglia-thalamocortical circuit, and the cerebellum and related nuclei. In addition, the nerve fibers linking some of the cadherin-8-positive areas, i.e. the habenulo-interpeduncular tract, decussation of the dorsal tegmentum, the medial longitudinal fasciculus, transverse pontine fibers, the brachium conjunctivum and the inferior cerebellar peduncle were cadherin-8 positive, as were the spinal tract of the trigeminal nerve, oculomotor nerve, facial nerve and trigeminal nerve. Cadherin-8 expression also showed a patch-like distribution in the intermediate gray layer of the superior colliculus, resembling acetylcholinesterase-rich patches in allocation. Segmentally organized cadherin-8-positive areas were found in the neonatal cerebellar Purkinje cell layer. Some nuclei and fibers in the brainstem and cerebellum, expressing cadherin-8 at neonatal stages, were also stained in the adult mouse brain. These findings suggest that cadherin-8 is involved in the formation of particular neural circuits by connecting areas expressing this molecule with positive nerve fibers, and indicate its possible implication in subdivisional organization in the superior colliculus and cerebellum.
Neuropeptide Y, a 36 amino acid peptide, mediates its biological effects by activating the Y1, Y2, Y5 and Y6 receptors, which are also receptors for the structurally related peptide YY. Different classes of receptors have been suggested to be involved in different neuropeptide Y functions. In this report, we have characterized the developmental regulation and compared the cellular localization of these receptors in the developing and in the adult central and peripheral nervous systems of the mouse. RNase protection assays revealed that Y1, Y2 and Y5 messenger RNAs were expressed very early in spinal cord, brain, cerebellum and dorsal root ganglion development and were often down-regulated at times corresponding to their acquirement of the adult function in neurotransmission. In situ hybridization of the adult brain showed that Y1 was widely expressed, Y2 displayed a more restricted pattern, Y5 was expressed at very low levels and only in a few brain nuclei and Y6 was not expressed. Virtually all areas containing neurons positive for Y5 also expressed Y1, whereas many Y1-positive cells clearly did not express Y5. In contrast, Y2 was not expressed by the neurons expressing Y1 or Y5. These findings suggest that neuropeptide Y signaling in the brain could be mediated by simultaneous Y1 and Y5 activation. Similar results were also obtained in peripheral sensory neurons. Furthermore, our results suggest that neuropeptide Y/peptide YY receptors play an important role in nervous system development and that selective receptor combinations are responsible for signaling the different effects of neuropeptide Y in the peripheral and central nervous systems.
In the present study, we investigated and compared the ability of the cholera toxin B subunit, wheat germ agglutinin and isolectin B4 from Griffonia simplicifolia I conjugated to horseradish peroxidase, to retrogradely and transganglionically label visceral primary afferents after unilateral injections into the rat urinary bladder wall. Horseradish peroxidase histochemical or lectin-immunofluorescence histochemical labelling of bladder afferents was seen in the L6-S1 spinal cord segments and in the T13-L2 and L6-S1 dorsal root ganglia. In the lumbosacral spinal cord, the most intense and extensive labelling of bladder afferents was seen when cholera toxin B subunit-horseradish peroxidase was injected. Cholera toxin B subunit-horseradish peroxidase-labelled fibres were found in Lissauer's tract, its lateral and medial collateral projections, and laminae I and IV-VI of the spinal gray matter. Labelled fibres were numerous in the lateral collateral projection and extended into the spinal parasympathetic nucleus. Labelling from both the lateral and medial projections extended into the dorsal grey commissural region. Wheat germ agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase labelling produced a similar pattern but was not as dense and extensive as that of cholera toxin B subunit-horseradish peroxidase. The isolectin B4 from Griffonia simplicifolia I-horseradish peroxidase-labelled fibres, on the other hand, were fewer and only observed in the lateral collateral projection and occasionally in lamina I. Cell profile counts showed that a larger number of dorsal root ganglion cells were labelled with cholera toxin B subunit-horseradish peroxidase than with wheat germ agglutinin- or isolectin B4-horseradish peroxidase. In the L6-S1 dorsal root ganglia, the majority (81%) of the cholera toxin B subunit-, and almost all of the wheat germ agglutinin- and isolectin B4-immunoreactive cells were RT97-negative (an anti-neurofilament antibody that labels dorsal root ganglion neurons with myelinated fibres). Double labelling with other neuronal markers showed that 71%, 43% and 36% of the cholera toxin B subunit-immunoreactive cells were calcitonin gene-related peptide-, isolectin B4-binding- and substance P-positive, respectively. A few cholera toxin B subunit cells showed galanin-immunoreactivity, but none were somatostatin-, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-, or neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive or contained fluoride-resistant acid phosphatase. The results show that cholera toxin B subunit-horseradish peroxidase is a more effective retrograde and transganglionic tracer for pelvic primary afferents from the urinary bladder than wheat germ agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase and isolectin B4-horseradish peroxidase, but in contrast to somatic nerves, it is transported mainly by unmyelinated fibres in the visceral afferents.
We used an integral of the current-voltage relation as a new evaluation of Ca2+ current component composition in NG108-15 hybrid cells. We determined significant changes in the values and composition of Ca2+ currents during cell differentiation. Only low-voltage-activated Ca2+ currents could be observed in undifferentiated cells; after cell differentiation, high-voltage-activated currents appeared and the total Ca2+ current was increased about 30-fold. By pharmacological and biophysical separation, we determined four main types of Ca2+ channels in differentiated cells: approximately 50%, 20% and 17% of N, T and L types, respectively, and 12% of residual current, which is insensitive to classical blockers of low- and high-voltage-activated currents, with the exception of (omega-conotoxin GVIA. All current components displayed kinetics and pharmacological properties similar to neuronal ones. We also established a significant Ca2+ dependence of omega-conotoxin GVIA to inhibit N-type Ca2+ channels: 10 mM Ca2+ in bath solution reduced the toxin efficacy to block N channels three-fold. The residual component fitted the properties of Q-type Ca2+ channels: it was sensitive to (omega-conotoxin GVIA and very similar to the T-type channel with respect to its kinetics; however, the threshold of its activation was closer to the high-voltage-activated component (- 40 mV). Our results show the functional diversity of Ca2+ channels and demonstrate, for the first time, that presumably the Q type of an alpha1A family, which has biophysical and pharmacological properties distinct from the previously described T, L and N types in these cells, is co-expressed in NG108-15 cells.
A procedure for preparing slices from the turtle olfactory bulb is described in this report. Individual layers of the bulb could be identified in the slices which enabled visual identification of cell types. Mitral cells retained extensive dendritic arborizations in slices of typical thickness, 300-400 microm. The presence of extensive dendritic processes was consistent with the difficulties we encountered in our attempt to achieve adequate space clamp. On the few occasions where an adequate space clamp of a mitral cell was achieved, calcium current exhibited a threshold of - 50 mV and reached its maximal level at - 10 mV. In all cases where calcium current was analysed (n=46), the current exhibited little inactivation. Depolarizing steps in 50% of the mitral cells triggered a burst of feedback synaptic activity after termination of the step. The intensity of feedback activity correlated closely with the amplitude of the depolarizing step, reaching its maximal level at - 10 mV and declining with further depolarization. The bell-shaped relationship between the feedback activity and mitral cell depolarization is consistent with the hypothesis that the feedback activity is mediated by reciprocal synapses on the mitral cell dendrite. This hypothesis is further supported by the inhibitory nature of the feedback synaptic activity: (i) the polarity of the feedback synaptic current could be inverted at the predicted chloride equilibrium potential, (ii) the feedback activity could be completely blocked by 10 microM bicuculline. The analysis of spontaneous synaptic activity showed that it was mostly inhibitory because its polarity could be reversed at the predicted chloride equilibrium potential. In some mitral cells, the frequency of spontaneous activity was noticeably increased when the holding potential was depolarized. This correlation could be attributed to the activation of dendrodendritic synapses. Results shown in this report demonstrate that dendrodendritic synapses are viable in turtle olfactory bulb slices. In addition, the suppression of feedback inhibition by large depolarizing steps of mitral cells suggests that the control of mitral cell dendritic potential is adequate to suppress calcium influx during large depolarizing steps.
To investigate the role of the corpus callosum in the expression of functional brain asymmetries, we compared left and right uptake of [14C]2-deoxyglucose in 43 brain regions measured in 10 C57B1/6 mice with a normal corpus callosum and in 12 congenitally acallosal mice, after 45 min of free activity in a novel, large open-field arena. The metabolic patterns across the brain appeared to be similar in the two groups of mice, as well as the average direction of asymmetry in tracer incorporation, which was higher at right in most of the brain regions for both acallosals and controls. However, the direction of the metabolic asymmetries of any given region was not consistent across individual animals. The largest asymmetries were found in the central auditory nuclei in both groups of mice, with extreme values in some acallosals. Significantly larger asymmetries were found in acallosal mice for the brain and the cortex as a whole, as well as for the lateral geniculate and pretectal nuclei, the olfactory tubercles, and retrosplenial, infrarhinal and perirhinal cortices. The metabolic asymmetries of the thalamic sensory nuclei were correlated with the asymmetries of the corresponding sensory cortical fields in the acallosal, but not in control mice. On the other hand, asymmetries of the cortical regions were largely intercorrelated in control mice, resulting in a general activation of one hemisphere over the other, while in acallosals they were more independent, resulting in a &quot;patchy&quot; pattern of cortical asymmetries. These results suggest that callosal agenesis, combined with the occurrence of ipsilateral Probst bundles, leads to a loss of co-ordination in the activation of different sensory and motor areas. The impaired co-ordination might then be distributed through cortico-subcortical loops, resulting in larger asymmetries throughout the brain. Thus, a normal corpus callosum appears to balance and synchronize metabolic brain activity, perhaps by smoothing the effects of asymmetrically activated ascending systems.
The structures capable of synthesizing cyclic GMP in response to nitric oxide in the rat brain were compared relative to the anatomical localization of neuronal nitric oxide synthase. In order to do this, we used brain slices incubated in vitro, where cyclic GMP-synthesis was stimulated using sodium nitroprusside as a nitric oxide-donor compound, in the presence of the phosphodiesterase inhibitor isobutylmethylxanthine. Nitric oxide-stimulated cyclic GMP synthesis was found in cells and fibers, but was especially prominent in varicose fibers throughout the rat brain. Fibers containing the nitric oxide-stimulated cyclic GMP production were present in virtually every area of the rat brain although there were large regional variations in the density of the fiber networks. When compared with the localization of nitric oxide synthase, it was observed that although nitric oxide-responsive and the nitric oxide-producing structures were found in similar locations in general this distribution was complementary. Only occasionally was nitric oxide-mediated cyclic GMP synthesis observed in structures which also contained nitric oxide synthase. We conclude that the nitric oxide-responsive soluble guanylyl cyclase and nitric oxide synthase are usually juxtaposed at very short distances in the rat brain. These findings very strongly support the proposed role of nitric oxide as an endogenous activator of the soluble guanylyl cyclase in the central nervous system and convincingly demonstrate the presence of the nitric oxide-cyclic GMP signal transduction pathway in virtually every area of the rat brain.
The central effect of 3-morpholinosydnonimine, a nitric oxide donor, on the sympatho-adrenomedullary system was investigated in urethane-anesthetized rats. Intracerebroventricular administration of 3-morpholinosydnonimine (100, 250 and 500 microg/animal) induced a marked elevation of adrenaline levels and a slight elevation of noradrenaline levels in the plasma. These 3-morpholinosydnonimine (250 microg/animal)-induced elevations of catecholamines were abolished by intracerebroventricular treatments with 2-(4-carboxyphenyl)-4,4,5,5-tetramethylimidazoline-l-oxyl 3-oxide (750 microg/animal), a nitric oxide scavenger, and indomethacin (500 microg/animal), a cyclo-oxygenase inhibitor, but not with superoxide dismutase (250 units/animal), a superoxide anion scavenger. Furthermore, the 3-morpholinosydnonimine (250 microg/animal)-induced elevation of plasma adrenaline levels was abolished by intracerebroventricular treatments with thromboxane A2 synthase inhibitors [furegrelate (100, 250 and 1000 microg/animal) and carboxyheptyl imidazole (500 microg/animal)], and also with thromboxane A2 receptor blockers [(+)-S-145 (100, 250 and 1000microg/animal) and SQ29548 (8microg/animal)]. The elevation of noradrenaline levels was, however, not attenuated by these thromboxane A2-related test agents. The present results indicate that nitric oxide but not peroxynitrite markedly activates central adrenomedullary outflow. Thromboxane A2 in the brain is probably involved in this central activation of adrenomedullary outflow.
In the present study we evaluated the consequences of interference with nitric oxide synthesis during development on brain function and behaviour in later life. Rat pups received a daily injection of the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME, 25 mg/kg, s.c.) from postnatal day 0 to 24. At postnatal day 8 L-NAME-treated rats had enlarged and heavier stomachs, while body weights appeared to be reduced. The stomachs were not affected in size and weight anymore at postnatal day 24, whereas the body weights were still reduced by the L-NAME treatment, although they soon recovered after termination of the treatment. At four months-of-age, rats were tested in non-cognitive (open field) and cognitive (Morris water escape, two-way active avoidance) tasks. Open field behaviour of adult rats postnatally treated with L-NAME was not affected. In the water escape task there were no differences between the saline and L-NAME-treated rats in spatial discrimination learning and spatial reversal learning. Furthermore, postnatal L-NAME treatment did not have an effect on the acquisition of the two-way active avoidance task. Subsequently, we tested rat pups during the L-NAME treatment at postnatal day 19 through 24 in the open field and the two-way active avoidance task. L-NAME treatment appeared to increase the behavioural activity in the open field. There was no difference in behaviour in the active avoidance task between saline and L-NAME-treated rats. Biochemical and immunocytochemical studies showed that at postnatal day 8 the basal cyclic GMP level was reduced, while the cyclic GMP formation due to incubation with the nitric oxide donor sodium nitroprusside appeared to be increased in the hippocampus, striatum and frontal cortex of L-NAME-treated rats. Hence, nitric oxide synthase was inhibited whereas the soluble guanylyl cyclase activity may be increased in sensitivity. At postnatal day 24 basal cyclic GMP levels and nitric oxide-mediated cyclic GMP formation in the brain structures of L-NAME-treated rats had normal values again. Taken together, the findings of this study suggest that postnatal inhibition of nitric oxide synthase has profound neurochemical effects during development and may have short-lasting effects on non-cognitive behaviour, but it does not affect behaviour and brain function in later life.
It has previously been demonstrated, in dual probe microdialysis studies, that stimulation of the neostriatum with kainic acid causes the release of GABA both locally within the neostriatum and distally in the substantia nigra, observations that are consistent with the known anatomy of the basal ganglia. The object of the present study was to further examine the characteristics of GABA release and to determine whether taurine, which has been proposed to be present in striatonigral neurons, has similar characteristics of release, and to examine the release of excitatory amino acids under the same conditions. To this end, dual probe microdialysis studies were carried out on freely-moving rats. The application of kainic acid to neostriatum enhanced the release of GABA, taurine, aspartate and glutamate locally in the neostriatum and distally in the substantia nigra. The distal release of each amino acid in the substantia nigra was sensitive to the administration of 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione and tetrodotoxin to the neostriatum. Similarly the local release of GABA, aspartate and glutamate but not taurine was sensitive to the intrastriatal application of 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione or tetrodotoxin. It is concluded that the release of taurine from the substantia nigra has similar characteristics to that of GABA and may be released from the terminals of striatonigral neurons following the stimulation of their cell bodies in the neostriatum. The release of taurine in the neostriatum however, is likely to be mediated mainly by different mechanisms and not related to neuronal activity. The release of excitatory amino acids is likely to involve indirect effects in the neostriatum and polysynaptic pathways in the substantia nigra.
In rat brainstem slices, we investigated the possible role of metabotropic glutamate receptors in modulating the synaptic transmission within the medial vestibular nuclei, under basal and plasticity inducing conditions. We analysed the effect of the metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonist (R,S)-alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine on the amplitude of the field potentials and latency of unitary potentials evoked in the ventral portion of the medial vestibular nuclei by primary vestibular afferent stimulation, and on the induction and maintenance of long-term potentiation, after high-frequency stimulation. Two effects were observed, consisting of a slight increase of the field potentials and reduction of unit latency during the drug infusion, and a further long-lasting development of these modifications after the drug wash-out. The long-term effect depended on N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation, as D,L-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid prevented its development. We suggest that (R,S)-alpha-methyl-4carboxyphenylglycine enhances the vestibular responses and induces N-methyl-D-aspartate-dependent long-term potentiation by increasing glutamate release, through the block of presynaptic metabotropic glutamate receptors which actively inhibit it. The block of these receptors was indirectly supported by the fact that the agonist (1S,3R)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid reduced the vestibular responses and blocked the induction of long-term potentiation by high-frequency stimulation. The simultaneous block of metabotropic glutamate receptors facilitating synaptic plasticity, impedes the full expression of the long-term effect throughout the (R,S)-alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine infusion. The involvement of such a facilitatory mechanism in the potentiation is supported by its reversible reduction following a second (R,S)-alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine infusion. The drug also reduced the expression of potentiation induced by high-frequency stimulation. Conversely the electrical long-term potentiation was still induced, but it was occluded by the previous drug potentiation. We conclude that metabotropic glutamate receptors play a dual functional role in the medial vestibular nuclei, consisting in the inhibition of glutamate release under basal conditions, and the facilitation of N-methyl-D-aspartate-dependent plasticity phenomena.
Recent results show that the HIV-1 protein gp120 can enhance N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated release of noradrenaline from CNS nerve endings. We now investigate the mechanism of this action, including the structural determinants of the gp120 effect and the nature of its binding sites. The N-methyl-D-aspartate-evoked release of [3H]noradrenaline from rat hippocampal synaptosomes was potentiated similarly by gp120 and gp160; gp41 was ineffective. The regions of gp120 involved appear to be outside the CD4-binding domain of the protein, because gp120 retained its activity after pretreatment with N-carbomethoxycarbonyl-D-prolyl-D-phenylalanine, a compound known to inhibit binding of gp120 to CD4 receptors. Moreover, sequences of gp120 critical for binding to CD4 did not mimic the effect of gp120. Preincubation of synaptosomes with anti-galactocerebroside antibodies did not affect gp120 activity. The protein effect was retained by peptides mimicking its V3 sequence, including the cyclic V3 &quot;universal peptide&quot; and the linear V3 sequence BRU-C-34-A, but not RP-135 (a central portion of BRU-C-34-A). The block of the N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced [3H]noradrenaline release by 7-chlorokynurenate, an antagonist at the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor glycine site, was competitively reversed by glycine, by V3 and by BRU-C-34-A. When added with N-methyl-D-aspartate, V3 was three to four orders of magnitude more potent than glycine (EC50 values: about 20 pM and 150 nM, respectively) in enhancing [3H]noradrenaline release. Gp120 did not release glycine or serine from synaptosomes, thus excluding indirect actions through these agents. To conclude, gp120 may act following recognition by its V3 sequence of a high-affinity site possibly coincident with the glycine site of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors present on hippocampal terminals of noradrenergic neurons. Considering the importance of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation and of noradrenaline in cognitive processes, the effects of gp120 and V3 described here may be relevant to the pathology of AIDS dementia.
Previous investigations have provided evidence demonstrating that the extracellular release of glutamate into the parabrachial nucleus was significantly enhanced following visceral afferent activation. This period of enhanced glutamate release into the parabrachial nucleus corresponded to a time during which the pressor response to a bolus phenylephrine injection was significantly enhanced, and the reflex bradycardia was attenuated. This decrease in the sensitivity of the baroreflex is suggestive of an enhanced sympathetic tone as a result of the vagal stimulation. The present investigation was done to determine if the decreased baroreflex sensitivity observed following short-term vagal stimulation is mediated by an increase in sympathetic activity and was dependent on the parabrachial synapse. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were anaesthetized with sodium thiobutabarbitol and instrumented to monitor blood pressure and heart rate and for the placement of a stimulating electrode on the left cervical vagus nerve. Femoral arterial blood samples were taken before, during and after 2 h of vagal stimulation which were later assayed for plasma catecholamines. The results showed that plasma norepinephrine levels decreased during, and were significantly elevated immediately following termination of the vagal stimulation, indicative of an increase in sympathetic tone. To determine if the parabrachial nucleus is involved in mediating an enhanced sympathetic activity following vagal stimulation, a second group of animals underwent an identical surgical preparation, vagal stimulation and blood sampling protocol with the addition of bilateral microinjections of either the reversible anaesthetic, lidocaine, or saline into the parabrachial nucleus. The results showed that reversible blockade of the parabrachial nucleus prior to the onset of the vagal stimulation was effective in blocking both the elevation in plasma norepinephrine levels and the depressed baroreflex sensitivity previously observed following 2 h of vagal stimulation. These results suggest that the parabrachial nucleus mediated the sympathoexcitation and consequent depression in baroreflex sensitivity observed following visceral afferent activation.
Although there are numerous opioid-sensitive structures in the central nervous system, the contribution of each to the analgesic effect of systemically administered morphine is controversial. One such structure is the rostral ventromedial medulla. In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that the rostral ventromedial medulla is necessary for the full expression of systemic morphine-induced antinociception. Additionally, we examined whether the modulatory effect of the rostral ventromedial medulla on tail-flick latency is dependent on the behavioral state of the animal. In unrestrained rats, inactivation of the rostral ventromedial medulla with either lidocaine (0.5 microl of 4%) or muscimol (50 ng) had no effect on tail-flick latency. In contrast, in restrained rats, inactivation of the rostral ventromedial medulla with either lidocaine (0.5 microl of 4%) or muscimol (50 ng) significantly decreased tail-flick latency. In both conditions, microinjection of morphine (5 microg) into this region significantly increased tail-flick latency. Additionally, in unrestrained rats, muscimol (50 ng) and cholecystokinin tetrapeptide (0.5 ng) infusion into the rostral ventromedial medulla completely reversed systemic morphine-induced analgesia, while lidocaine (0.5 microl of 4%) and cholecystokinin octapeptide (0.25 ng) infusion partially reversed systemic morphine-induced analgesia. These findings demonstrate that the rostral ventromedial medulla does not tonically modulate tail-flick latency in unrestrained rats, but does modulate tail-flick latency when animals are stressed via restraint. These findings also strongly support the hypothesis that the rostral ventromedial medulla is necessary for the full analgesic effects of systemically administered morphine.
Neurons growing out from cultivated fetal medullary slices that exhibited spontaneous electrical activity after blockade of synaptic transmission were investigated by the patch-clamp technique for their response to decreases in the extracellular pH. Increases in the [H+], induced by increases in pCO2, resulted in a decrease in spike frequency associated with a decrease in the rate of depolarization preceding each action potential. The type of ion channel, contributing to interspike depolarization, and which may therefore be the site of CO2/H+ action, was identified by application of agents that inhibited the hyperpolarization-activated cation, IH, channel (Cs+ and ZD7288). Application of Cs+ and ZD7288 slightly hyperpolarized the cell membrane, decreased the interspike slope and inhibited CO2/H+-induced modulations of spike frequency in one group of CO2-inhibited medullary neurons, suggesting that IH contributes to spontaneous neuronal activity and to CO2/H+-sensitivity. CO2/H+ effects on IH were further confirmed in voltage-clamp experiments. Increasing the bath CO2 from 2% to 9% reduced the IH amplitude, shifted the mean EH from -54 to -60 mV, lengthened the voltage-dependent delay of current activation and increased the time-constants of activation at all potentials studied. It is concluded that depolarizing inward currents through IH channels participate in the gradual ramp-like change in membrane potential which depolarizes the cell up to the threshold of Na+ spike generation. CO2/H+-induced inhibition of IH reduces the contribution of this ion current to the interspike depolarization and accounts for the CO2/H+-induced decrease in spike frequency in one type of CO2/H+-inhibited medullary cells.
In this study we utilized electrophysiological and pathway tracing methods to investigate the projections from the medial prefrontal cortex to the midbrain raphe nuclei of the rat. Initial pathway tracing experiments using retrograde (horseradish peroxidase conjugates with wheatgerm agglutinin or choleratoxin B subunit) and anterograde (Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin) markers demonstrated a direct, bilateral projection to the dorsal raphe nucleus and median raphe nucleus from the medial prefrontal cortex, and the origin of this projection was localized predominantly in the ventral medial prefrontal cortex (infralimbic/dorsal penduncular cortices). Using chloral hydrate-anaesthetized rats, extracellular recordings were made mostly from 5-hydroxytryptamine neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus, but non-5-hydroxytryptamine dorsal raphe neurons were also studied, as was a small number of 5-hydroxytryptamine neurons in the median raphe nucleus. In an initial study, electrical stimulation of the ventral medial prefrontal cortex caused a post-stimulus inhibition in the majority (49/56) of dorsal raphe 5-hydroxytryptamine neurons tested (mean duration of inhibition, 200+/-17 ms); in some cases (8/56) the inhibition was preceded by short-latency (26 +/-3 ms) orthodromic activation, and a small number of cells was antidromically activated (6/56). Both single spiking and burst-firing 5-hydroxytryptamine neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus responded in the same way, and median raphe 5-hydroxytryptamine neurons were also inhibited (5/5). In contrast, few (2/12) of the non-5-hydroxytryptamine dorsal raphe neurons tested were inhibited by ventral medial prefrontal cortex stimulation. The effects of stimulation of the dorsal and ventral medial prefrontal cortex were compared on the same raphe 5-hydroxytryptamine neurons (n=17): ventral medial prefrontal cortex stimulation inhibited 16/17 of these neurons while only 8/17 were inhibited by dorsal medial prefrontal cortex stimulation. Finally, the inhibitory effect of ventral medial prefrontal cortex stimulation on 5-hydroxytryptamine cell-firing was not altered by 5-hydroxytryptamine depletion with p-chlorophenylalanine or by systemic administration of the selective 5-hydroxytryptamine1A receptor antagonist WAY 100635. The latter findings indicate that the inhibition is not due to release of raphe 5-hydroxytryptamine which could theoretically arise from anti- or orthodromically activated 5-hydroxytryptamine neurons. Our results show that stimulation of the ventral medial prefrontal cortex causes a marked post-stimulus inhibition in the vast majority of midbrain raphe 5-hydroxytryptamine neurons tested. It seems likely that the projection from ventral medial prefrontal cortex to the midbrain raphe nuclei mediates the responses of 5-hydroxytryptamine neurons to cortical stimulation. These data are relevant to recent discoveries of functional and structural abnormalities in the medial prefrontal cortex of patients with major depressive illness.
Galaninergic mechanisms related to 5-hydroxytryptamine neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus of the rat were analysed using electrophysiology, immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization. Galanin caused a dose-dependent hyperpolarization accompanied by a decrease in membrane resistance in most 5-hydroxytryptamine-sensitive dorsal raphe neurons. The galanin-induced outward current reversed at about - 105 mV and shifted to a more positive potential with increasing extracellular potassium concentrations. The 5-hydroxytryptamine-induced outward current was enhanced and prolonged by preincubation with a low concentration of galanin (1-10 nM). The immunohistochemical analysis showed (i) generally low levels of galanin in the 5-hydroxytryptamine cell bodies, (ii) moderate numbers of galanin-positive nerve endings around the 5-hydroxytryptamine cell bodies, (iii) presence of galanin-like immunoreactivity in 5-hydroxytryptamine-positive dendrites and (iv) galanin-positive, 5-hydroxytryptamine-negative boutons making synaptic contact with 5-hydroxytryptamine-positive dendrites. The in situ hybridization results suggest that the galanin receptor present in the galanin/5-hydroxytryptamine neurons is not of the recently cloned galanin-R1 type. Taken together these results indicate that galanin exerts an inhibitory effect via an increase in K+ conductance in 5-hydroxytryptamine neurons by acting on a postsynaptic receptor. In addition, galanin at low, possibly physiological concentrations enhances the inhibitory effect of 5-hydroxytryptamine at the cell soma level. We propose that galanin primarily is released from adjacent galanin boutons lacking 5-hydroxytryptamine and also from soma and dendrites of galanin/5-hydroxytryptamine dorsal raphe neurons. Galanin may thus be involved in the manifold functions hitherto ascribed to ascending 5-hydroxytryptamine neurons, for example in mood regulation.
Reports of a reduction in the risk of developing Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease in tobacco smokers, together with the loss of high-affinity nicotine binding in these diseases, suggest that consequences of nicotinic cholinergic transmission may be neuroprotective. Changes in brain dopaminergic parameters and nicotinic receptors in response to tobacco smoking have been assessed in this study of autopsy samples from normal elderly individuals with known smoking histories and apolipoprotein E genotype. The ratio of homovanillic acid to dopamine, an index of dopamine turnover, was reduced in elderly smokers compared with age matched non-smokers (P&lt;0.05) in both the caudate and putamen. Dopamine levels were significantly elevated in the caudate of smokers compared with non-smokers (P&lt;0.05). However there was no significant change in the numbers of dopamine (D1, D2 and D3) receptors or the dopamine transporter in the striatum, or for dopamine D1 and D2 receptors in the hippocampus in smokers compared with non-smokers or ex-smokers. The density of high-affinity nicotine binding was higher in smokers than non-smokers in the hippocampus, entorhinal cortex and cerebellum (elevated by 51-221%) and to a lesser extent in the striatum (25-55%). The density of high-affinity nicotine binding in ex-smokers was similar to that of the non-smokers in all the areas investigated. The differences in high-affinity nicotine binding between smokers and the non- and ex-smokers could not be explained by variation in apolipoprotein E genotype. There were no differences in alpha-bungarotoxin binding, measured in hippocampus and cerebellum, between any of the groups. These findings suggest that chronic cigarette smoking is associated with a reduction of the firing of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons in the absence of changes in the numbers of dopamine receptors and the dopamine transporter. Reduced dopamine turnover associated with increased numbers of high-affinity nicotine receptors is consistent with attenuated efficacy of these receptors in smokers. A decrease in striatal dopamine turnover may be a mechanism of neuroprotection in tobacco smokers that could delay basal ganglia pathology. The current findings are also important in the interpretation of measurements of nicotinic receptors and dopaminergic parameters in psychiatric conditions such as schizophrenia, in which there is a high prevalence of cigarette smoking.
Aggression is a very problematic behavioral symptom affecting a significant proportion of Alzheimer's disease patients. Previous work in our laboratory has shown that a subgroup of Alzheimer's patients displaying aggressive behaviors had a markedly higher level of alpha2-adrenergic receptors in the cerebellar cortex (approaching or exceeding those of controls), compared to Alzheimer's patients with similar cognitive impairments, but no history of aggressive behaviors. This study has sought to assess whether noradrenergic neuronal inputs to the cerebellum reflect similar changes in this Alzheimer's subgroup. Cerebellar cortex from non-aggressive Alzheimer's subjects showed a markedly lower level of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neuronal fibers than normal controls (approximately 75% decreased), visualized by immunohistochemistry. Cerebellar cortex from the aggressive Alzheimer's subgroup, on the other hand, had a tyrosine hydroxylase fiber concentration not significantly different than controls. These results suggest that there is a relative preservation of inhibitory noradrenergic neuronal input to the cerebellar cortex in this aggressive subgroup of Alzheimer's disease patients. Much evidence exists that the cerebellum assists in behavioral control. The possibility that this lack of noradrenergic decline in the cerebellum could lead to a system imbalance and result in a selective behavioral disturbance is discussed.
Recent studies using DNA fragmentation assays suggest a role for apoptosis in cell death in Huntington's disease. In this study, we investigated the relationship between the degree of DNA fragmentation and the number of trinucleotide (CAG) repeats of the Huntington's disease gene in striatal tissue from Huntington's disease brains. We used frozen striatal tissue from 27 post mortem Huntington's disease brains (graded 0-4 on the Vonsattel classification, post mortem delay ranging from 4 to 41 h), plus control sections which were age, sex and post mortem delay matched from neurologically normal and Alzheimer's diseased striatal tissue. Our results show a significant positive correlation between the number of CAG repeats in the Huntington's disease gene and the degree of DNA fragmentation in Huntington's disease striatum. These results suggest that expanded CAG repeats in the Huntington's disease gene may lead to neuronal degeneration in Huntington's disease through an apoptotic mechanism.
Codings involving spike trains at synapses with inhibitory postsynaptic potentials on pacemakers were examined in crayfish stretch receptor organs by modulating presynaptic instantaneous rates periodically (triangles or sines; frequencies, slopes and depths under, respectively, 5.0 Hz, 40.0/s/s and 25.0/s). Timings were described by interspike and cross-intervals (&quot;phases&quot;); patterns (dispersions, sequences) and forms (timing classes) were identified using pooled graphs (instant along the cycle when a spike occurs vs preceding interval) and return maps (plots of successive intervals). A remarkable heterogeneity of postsynaptic intervals and phases characterizes each modulation. All cycles separate into the same portions: each contains a particular form and switches abruptly to the next. Forms differ in irregularity and predictability: they are (see text) &quot;p:q alternations&quot;, &quot;intermittent&quot;, &quot;phase walk-throughs&quot;, &quot;messy erratic&quot; and &quot;messy stammering&quot;. Postsynaptic cycles are asymmetric (hysteresis). This contrasts with the presynaptic homogeneity, smoothness and symmetry. All control parameters are, individually and jointly, strongly influential. Presynaptic slopes, say, act through a postsynaptic sensitivity to their magnitude and sign; when increasing, hysteresis augments and forms change or disappear. Appropriate noise attenuates between-train contrasts, providing modulations are under 0.5 Hz. Postsynaptic natural intervals impose critical time bases, separating presynaptic intervals (around, above or below them) with dissimilar consequences. Coding rules are numerous and have restricted domains; generalizations are misleading. Modulation-driven forms are trendy pacemaker-driven forms. However, dissimilarities, slight when patterns are almost pacemaker, increase as inhibition departs from pacemaker and incorporate unpredictable features. Physiological significance-(1) Pacemaker-driven forms, simple and ubiquitous, appear to be elementary building blocks of synaptic codings, present always but in each case distorted typically. (2) Synapses are prototype: similar behaviours should be widespread, and networks simulations benefit by nonlinear units generating all forms. (3) Relevant to periodic functions are that few variables need be involved in form selection, that distortions are susceptible to noise levels and, if periods are heterogeneous, that simple input cycles impose heterogeneous outputs. (4) Slow Na inactivations are necessary for obtaining complex forms and hysteresis. Formal significance--(1) Pacemaker-driven forms and presumably their modulation-driven counterparts, pertain to universal periodic, intermittent, quasiperiodic and chaotic categories whose formal properties carry physiological connotations. (2) Only relatively elaborate, nonlinear geometric models show all forms; simpler ones, show only alternations and walk-throughs. (3) Bifurcations resemble those of simple maps that can provide useful guidelines. (4) Heterogeneity poses the unanswered question of whether or not the entire cycle and all portions have the same behaviours: therefore, whether trajectories are continuous or have discontinuities and/or singular points.
The ideas of dynamical chaos have altered our understanding of the origin of random appearing behavior in many fields of physics and engineering. In the 1980s and 1990s these new viewpoints about apparent random oscillations arising in deterministic systems were investigated in neurophysiology and have led to quite successful reports of chaos in experimental and theoretical investigations. This paper is a &quot;view&quot; paper addressing the role of chaos in living systems, not just reviewing the evidence for its existence, and in particular we ask about the utility of chaotic behavior in nervous systems. From our point of view chaotic oscillations of individual neurons may not be essential for the observed activity of neuronal assemblies but may, instead, be responsible for the multitude of regular regimes of operation that can be accomplished by elements which are chaotic. The organization of chaotic elements in assemblies where their synchronization can result in organized adaptive and reliable activities may lead to general principles used by nature in accomplishing critical functional goals.
Changes in D1-, D2- and D4-like dopamine receptor binding in rat caudate-putamen, nucleus accumbens and hippocampus were examined by quantitative in vitro receptor autoradiography after unilateral injections of kainic acid into hippocampus to degenerate local intrinsic neurons and remove hippocampal-striatal projections. Radioligands were: [3H]SCH-23390 for D1-like (D1/D5) receptors, [3H]nemonapride alone for D2-like (D2/D3/D4) receptors and with 300 nM S[-]-raclopride and other masking agents for D4-like receptors. Kainic acid injections produced massive local hippocampal losses of D1-like (75%), D2-like (77%) and D4-like (79%) receptor binding but did not significantly alter D1-, D2- or D4-like receptor density in caudate-putamen or nucleus accumbens. Most D1-, D2- and D4-like receptors in rat hippocampus evidently arise on intrinsic postsynaptic neurons whereas none was detected on presynaptic terminals of hippocampal-striatal afferents innervating the striatal complex.
The end of the present millennium marks the centennial of Harvey Cushing's European study year, after the completion of his surgical residency under William Stewart Halsted at the Johns Hopkins Hospital and just before beginning his surgical practice in Baltimore, Maryland. The year 2000 marks the sesquicentennial of California's admission to the Union as the 31st state. This report documents a number of the events and achievements that occurred during this &quot;pre-Cushing era&quot; (1850-1900) that contributed to the ultimate development of neurological surgery in California. The historical milestones of the California gold rush, the completion of the Transcontinental Railroad across the Sierra Nevada Mountains, and the careers of early California physicians and educators, including those of Hugh Toland and Levi Cooper Lane, were instrumental in building a foundation for the modern discipline of neurosurgery in the Golden State. This foundation would serve as a cornerstone for surgeons trained by Harvey Cushing (including Howard Naffziger, Carl Rand, and Edward Towne) who would arrive in California early in the 20th century and would define the specialty of neurosurgery. The legacy left by these physicians enhances the celebration of the closure of the millennium.

Rest, postural, and kinetic tremors were recorded in Cree subjects (n = 36) exposed to low levels of methylmercury (MeHg) and control subjects (n = 30) using lasers designed to measure displacement. Displacement and derived velocity and acceleration time series were analyzed using quantitative characteristics in time and frequency domains. We found: 1) relatively low agreement between our results and those of a clinical examination done at the time of testing (r = 0.31 for postural tremor); 2) best discrimination with velocity of static (postural with visual feedback) and kinetic tremors for which significant differences between the two groups are found in many of the characteristics examined; 3) myoclonic-like finger microdisplacements in tremor of Cree subjects; 4) significant changes in static tremor of Cree subjects following a kinetic task; 5) significant differences among three age-matched subgroups of six subjects each (Cree with higher and lower MeHg level, and a control group) in characteristics that reflect difficulty with tracking, myoclonic-like microdisplacements and change in frequency composition of tremor after the tracking task. The subtle differences detected in this preliminary study suggest that further work is warranted to determine whether they can be unambiguously associated with exposure to MeHg.
Despite more than 30 years of intensive research, the specific role of serotonin (5-HT) receptor subtypes in animal models of &quot;anxiety&quot; still remains unclear. The present study focused on the particular role of 5-HT1A receptor subtype in aversive learning, i.e., the passive avoidance (PA) task in the rat. Taken together, the data strongly suggest that: (1) 5-HT1A receptor but not 5-HT2A receptors play a crucial role in PA; (2) the postsynaptic but not presynaptic 5-HT1A receptors are mainly involved in the regulation of PA; (3) 5-HT1A receptors appear to be directly involved both in acquisition and retrieval but not in the consolidation of PA; and (4) besides the &quot;prototypical&quot; 5-HT1A receptor subtype, an additional and yet-unidentified 5-HT receptor subtype seems to play an important modulatory role in PA.
Whole hemisphere autoradiography (WHA) with selective high-affinity radioligands is a new tool in studying the distribution of receptors and of other neuronal components postmortem in brains from controls vs. subjects with psychiatric and neurologic diseases. WHA can be performed with several different isotopes (e.g., 3H, 125I, and 11C), and is in addition to characterization studies also used as a tool in early radioligand development. Moreover, using this technique, high-resolution images are obtained that are complementary to those obtained in vivo with e.g., PET and SPECT. Results on dopamine and serotonin receptor subtypes as well as of their transporters show that WHA is a very suitable technique for the detailed characterization of the distribution in the whole human brain.
A morphometric magnetic resonance imaging study was performed, and the results were compared among three groups (group 1, periventricular leukomalacia patients with West syndrome; group 2, periventricular leukomalacia patients without West syndrome; and group 3, control patients) to clarify the characteristics and cause of West syndrome. This study included 21 infants (11 males and 10 females, 7 months to 2 years 8 months old) born at 24-32 weeks of gestation and weighing 625-1,908 gm. The Evans ratio, ratio of the posterior horns, Cella media index, width of the third ventricle, and the areas of the midbrain, pons, and medulla oblongata were measured and compared among the three groups. There were no differences of gestation or birth weight among the three groups. The Evans ratio, ratio of the posterior horns, Cella media index, and width of the third ventricle were larger in group 1 than in groups 2 and 3. The ratio of the posterior horns and Cella media index were larger in group 2 than in group 3, although the width of the third ventricle was not. Myelination was delayed in all patients in group 1 and in two patients in group 2. In group 1 the areas of the midbrain and pons were smaller than in groups 2 and 3 and the medulla oblongata was smaller than in group 3, although there were no differences in midbrain, pons, and medulla oblongata between groups 2 and 3. Although the infants with periventricular leukomalacia and West syndrome frequently demonstrated marked ventricular dilatation and delayed myelination, the atrophy of midbrain and pons was the most characteristic, and the damage may cause West syndrome.
This review reports on recent developments in proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) and its potential clinical application in pediatric neuroradiology. An overview of the essential principles of the methodology including pulse sequences and their practical application is provided. Each of the major neurochemical compounds found in the pediatric brain and its potential clinical significance is reviewed. Special consideration is given to issues of quantitation and maturational changes in neurochemistry which are unique to the developing brain. Examples of potential clinical applications of proton MRS are given in a brief case report format. Finally, the direction of likely future developments and the need for further investigation of proton MRS in pediatric populations is discussed. This review will provide the reader with a basic foundation for deciding when a proton MRS exam may be helpful for diagnosis and for the interpretation of proton MRS findings in the pediatric neuroradiology setting.
In two experiments, we examined the possibility that the human vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) is subject to dual adaptation (the ability to adapt to a sensory rearrangement more rapidly and/or more completely after repeated experience with it) and adaptive generalization (the ability to adapt more readily to a novel sensory rearrangement as a result of prior dual adaptation training). In Experiment 1, the subjects actively turned the head during alternating exposure to a visual-vestibular rearrangement (target/head gain = 0.5) and the normal situation (target/head gain = 0.0). These conditions produced both adaptation and dual adaptation of the VOR but no evidence of adaptive generalization when tested with a target/head gain of 1.0. Experiment 2, in which exposure to the 0.5 gain entailed externally controlled (i.e., passive) whole body rotation, resulted in VOR adaptation but no dual adaptation. As in Experiment 1, no evidence of adaptive generalization was found.
Following a hypoxic-ischemic insult, the collapse of ion gradients results in the inappropriate release of excitatory neurotransmitters. Although excitatory amino acids such as glutamate are the likely extracellular mediators of the ensuing neuronal cell death, the intracellular events occurring downstream of glutamate receptor activation are much less clear. The present review attempts to summarize how Ca2+ overload of neurons following a hypoxic-ischemic insult is neurotoxic. In particular, the interlocked relation between mitochondrial Ca2+ accumulation and subsequent neuronal cell death is examined.
Foetal rat brain aggregation cultures were exposed to a single episode of anoxia and hypoglycaemia for 30 min. Lactate dehydrogenase specific activity was estimated in the culture medium after ischaemia as a marker of lost cell integrity. Release of lactate dehydrogenase was most prominent during the first 24 hr period after the ischaemic damage, then it gradually declined. Immediately after ischaemic exposure, the cultures were treated with different concentrations of L-deprenyl or tolcapone. Significantly lower amounts of lactate dehydrogenase leaked into the culture medium during the first 24 hr after the ischaemic episode in cultures treated with deprenyl or tolcapone (1-100 nM). These results suggest that deprenyl and tolcapone may reduce cell damage after ischaemia, at doses causing enzyme inhibition.
The Hoffman-Tinel sign, although originally described by Paul Hoffman, is commonly referred to as the Tinel sign. It is one of the most commonly used tests in the clinical evaluation of periperhal nerves. The sign is used in the diagnosis of compression neuropathies, such as carpal and cubital tunnel syndromes, but it is also useful in the diagnosis of a variety of neurological maladies. Despite controversy, the Hoffman-Tinel sign remains important in the diagnosis of peripheral neuropathies and for the evaluation of the regenerating nerve after injury.
A general guideline to successful treatment of headache focuses on a diagnosis that satisfies both physician and patient. Thorough history taking, patient and family education, aggressive approaches, and careful follow-up help patients reach therapeutic goals. Successful long-term therapy for headache enables patients to gain control over their symptoms with a combination of carefully selected medications and nonpharmacologic approaches.
Behaviors are adaptations to the physical, biotic, and social environments. Great diversity exists among vertebrates in reproductive behaviors and the neuroendocrine mechanisms underlying these behaviors. Study of this diversity illuminates species, population, and sex differences in hormone-brain-behavior relations. It also can provide insights into how and why certain neuroendocrine mechanisms evolved. Discoveries in evolution and ecology, neuroscience and endocrinology, are complementary and interrelated, and when applied in behavioral neuroscience, the investigator's perspective is less constrained by existing dogma. Naturally-occurring organisms not typically studied can be especially useful as their unusual adaptations illustrate alternative solutions to particular problems. Indeed, they 'often force one to abandon standard methods and standard points of view' with the result that, 'in trying to comprehend their special and often unusual adaptation, one often serendipitously stumbles on new insights' (Bartholomew, 1982). Thus, to ignore comparative research would greatly limit our understanding of the evolution of hormone-behavior relations. As Bullock (1984) admonishes, &quot;without due consideration of the neural and behavioral correlates of differences between higher taxa and between closely related families, species, sexes, and stages, we cannot expect to understand our nervous systems or ourselves&quot;.
Sensorimotor gating of the startle reflex measured by prepulse inhibition (PPI) is impaired in schizophrenia patients and in rats treated with either dopamine (DA) agonists or with N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonists. While both typical and atypical antipsychotics restore PPI in DA agonist-treated rats, studies thus far have demonstrated that only atypical antipsychotics restore PPI in rats treated with NMDA antagonists. This model for predicting atypical antipsychotic properties has been studied extensively in rats, and there is interest in moving these studies into humans, where the NMDA antagonist ketamine is also reported to significantly reduce PPI. In anticipation of such studies, and to facilitate the use of this model in humans, we examined the effects of high and low potency typical antipsychotics (haloperidol and chlorpromazine), the atypical antipsychotic clozapine, and the putative atypical antipsychotic, Seroquel, on ketamine-disrupted PPI in rats, across a range of ketamine that produced submaximal, as well as maximal disruptions of PPI. Ketamine dose-dependently reduced PPI, and this effect was significantly opposed by Seroquel, clozapine and chlorpromazine, but not haloperidol. The effects of chlorpromazine on ketamine-disrupted PPI demonstrate that the ability of antipsychotics to restore PPI in NMDA antagonist-treated rats is not specific to clinically atypical antipsychotics. Receptor properties shared by Seroquel, clozapine and chlorpromazine, but not haloperidol, may implicate critical substrates in the NMDA antagonist-induced disruption of PPI.
The 5-HT3 receptor is thought to play a role in the reward pathway and the phenomena of drug abuse by modulating dopamine release in the mesolimbic pathway. Studies involving this receptor have been hampered due to the low level of 5-HT3 receptors in the CNS. A 5-HT3 receptor over-expressing mouse was produced to study the role of this receptor in the rewarding properties of drugs of abuse. Over-expression was restricted to the forebrain by controlling gene expression with the Ca2+ calmodulin (CAM) kinase IIalpha promoter. No over-expression was detected in other body organs nor the cerebellum, as measured by ligand binding and Northern analysis. 5-HT3 receptor over-expressing mice drank less alcohol than non-transgenic mice in a two-bottle free choice test. Over-expression of the 5-HT3 receptor in these mice resulted in a decrease in ethanol consumption. These mice should prove useful in testing hypothesis regarding a common reward pathway for drugs of abuse and the role 5-HT3 receptors play in this pathway.
Pretreatment with psychostimulant drugs causes sensitisation of their effects on locomotor activity and dopamine (DA) overflow in the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) and there is evidence for similarities in the mechanisms involved. This study used in vivo microdialysis in conscious freely moving rats to investigate the extent to which pretreatment with nicotine causes sensitisation to D-amphetamine. Pretreatment with nicotine (0.4 mg/kg s.c. daily for 5 days) caused sensitisation of the locomotor responses to D-amphetamine (0.1-0.5 mg/kg s.c.) but not cocaine (15 mg/kg i.p.). Nicotine pretreatment did not influence the increase in DA overflow into dialysis probes, located in the core of the NAcc, evoked by systemic injections of D-amphetamine or cocaine (15 mg/kg i.p.) but decreased the overflow evoked by the administration of D-amphetamine (1 x 10(-6) M) through the dialysis probe. The results provide further evidence for a dissociation between the expression of sensitised locomotor responses to psychostimulant drugs and sensitisation of their stimulatory effects on DA overflow in the core of the NAcc. The results suggest that the sensitisation of the effects of nicotine on DA overflow in this subdivision of the NAcc may be pharmacologically specific to nicotinic drugs.





The changing endocrine profile in premenopausal women alters aspects of sleep and circadian rhythms. Subjectively women appear to feel a greater need for sleep and report poor and insufficient sleep more often than men. This greater sleep requirement may manifest with a higher amplitude of slow-wave sleep in the EEG in women. Healthy young women, with biphasic body temperature rhythms of ovulatory menstrual cycles, have more stage 2 sleep, higher spindle frequency activity and less rapid-eye movement (REM) sleep when progesterone predominates in the luteal phase. These sleep-EEG changes may largely be caused by neurosteroids acting on the brain. Sleep regulatory mechanisms, indicated by the onset to sleep, slow-wave sleep (SWS) and slow-wave activity, appear to be unaffected by menstrual phase in women with normal cycles. Women with premenstrual mood symptoms have more stage 2 sleep and seemingly less SWS and REM sleep, a blunted circadian rhythm of melatonin and an earlier minimum body temperature than asymptomatic women. Subjective repercussions include increased daytime sleepiness, lethargy and fatigue. Treatment strategies for menstrual-associated complaints include using oral contraceptives and sleep deprivation but the physiology and pharmacology of normal menstrual changes, the disorders and their treatment need to be better understood.





Previous data have shown that the repeated administration of kappa-opioid receptor agonists attenuates the acute behavioral effects of cocaine. The site and mechanism by which kappa-agonists interact with this psychostimulant, however, are unknown. Accordingly, the present microdialysis study characterized the effects of prior, repeated administration of the selective kappa-opioid receptor agonist U69593 on basal and cocaine-evoked DA levels within the nucleus accumbens (NAC) and caudate putamen (CPU). The influence of U69593 treatment on the locomotor-activating effects of an acute cocaine challenge was also assessed. Rats received once daily injections of U69593 (0.16-0.32 mg/kg/day) or vehicle (1.0 ml/kg/day) for 3 days. The behavioral and neurochemical effects produced by an acute cocaine challenge (20 mg/kg i.p.) were assessed 2 days following treatment cessation. Administration of cocaine to control animals increased locomotor activity. This effect was attenuated in animals which had previously received U69593 (0.32 mg/kg/day x 3 days). Prior administration of U69593 failed to modify basal DA levels in either the NAC or CPU. Thus, 2 days following the cessation of U69593 treatment, dialysate DA levels did not differ from that of controls. Administration of cocaine to vehicle-treated animals increased dialysate levels of DA in both brain regions. However, in animals previously exposed to U69593 (0.32 mg/kg/day x 3 days), a significant enhancement in the response of DA neurons to cocaine was seen. These data demonstrate that prior, repeated administration of a selective kappa-opioid receptor agonist attenuates the locomotor-activating effects of cocaine and increases cocaine-evoked DA overflow in terminal projection areas of mesostriatal and mesolimbic DA neurons. These findings indicate that the behavioral interactions of kappa-agonists with cocaine observed in this and previous studies cannot be attributed to a presynaptic inhibition of DA release. Rather, they suggest that postsynaptic or non-DA mechanisms mediate the interaction of these agents with cocaine.
Cognitive Neuroscience: The Biology of the Mind by Michael Gazzaniga, Richard Ivry and George Mangun, W.W. Norton, 1998. 24.95 (xv+587 pages) ISBN 0 393 97219 4 Findings and Current Opinion in Cognitive Neuroscience by Larry Squire and Stephen Kosslyn, MIT Press, 1998. $35.00 (vii+381 pages) ISBN 0 262 69204 X.
This review describes and motivates six principles for computational cognitive neuroscience models: biological realism, distributed representations, inhibitory competition, bidirectional activation propagation, error-driven task learning, and Hebbian model learning. Although these principles are supported by a number of cognitive, computational and biological motivations, the prototypical neural-network model (a feedforward back-propagation network) incorporates only two of them, and no widely used model incorporates all of them. It is argued here that these principles should be integrated into a coherent overall framework, and some potential synergies and conflicts in doing so are discussed.
What is neuroinformatics? What is the Human Brain Project? Why should you care? Supported by a consortium of US funding agencies, the Human Brain Project aims to bring to the analysis of brain function the same advantages of Internet-accessible databases and database tools that have been crucial to the development of molecular biology and the Human Genome Project. The much greater complexity of neural data, however, makes this a far more challenging task. As a pilot project in this new initiative, we review some of the progress that has been made and indicate some of the problems, challenges and opportunities that lie ahead.
Malignant mesothelioma of the pleura is divided in three morphological variants: epithelioid, sarcomatous, and biphasic. Histological similarities between epithelioid malignant mesothelioma (EMM) and lung adenocarcinoma are responsible for the difficult differential diagnosis. Monoclonal antibodies are useful for distinguishing the two neoplasms through immunohistochemical phenotyping, although many cases require ultrastructural characterization for definitive diagnosis. In this study, transmission electron microscopic observations of EMM were compared with those of peripheral adenocarcinoma of the lung (PAL). More specifically, the morphology of the basal lamina is described in 23 cases of EMM and 12 cases of PAL. Reduplication of the basal lamina (RBL) was found in 11 cases (48%) of EMM and in none of the PAL cases. The same cases were immunostained for type IV collagen and the localization of this basement membrane component corresponded to the areas where basal lamina was observed. Since RBL has been associated with neoplastic differentiation in other tumors, this novel feature in EMM needs to be evaluated in future prognostic studies in malignant mesothelioma of the pleura. Moreover, RBL expression in EMM may be an additional ultrastructural parameter used in the differential diagnosis between EMM and adenocarcinoma.
Damage to primary visual cortex (VC) in young cats leads to severe retrograde degeneration of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (dLGN) and selective transneuronal retrograde degeneration of a class of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) that have a medium-size soma. Previous studies have shown that &quot;programmed&quot; RGC death associated with normal development in one eye can be attenuated by removal of the other eye, suggesting that binocular interactions can influence developmental RGC death. The present study investigated whether removal of one eye also attenuates the ganglion cell loss that accompanies an early VC lesion. Five one-week-old cats received a unilateral VC lesion (areas 17, 18, and 19), and three of these cats also underwent monocular enucleation at the same time. Two normal control animals also were examined. RGC measurements were made from flat-mounted retinae when the animals were 5 weeks old. Sampling was restricted to a retinal area corresponding to the retinotopic representation included in the VC lesion. Results indicate that there is a marked loss of medium-size RGCs in the hemiretinae projecting to the damaged hemisphere in cats that received a VC lesion alone. However, there is no such loss in VC-lesion animals that also have a monocular enucleation. These results indicate that the transneuronal RGC loss that occurs after an early visual cortex lesion can be influenced by binocular interactions.
Pharmacological studies have implicated retinal opiate pathways in the visual regulation of ocular growth. However, the effects of opiate receptor subtype-specific compounds on form-deprivation myopia (FDM) are inconsistent (Seltner et al., 1997), and may be mediated by non-opiate receptors. The purpose of this study was to test whether opiate receptor-inactive (D-) enantiomers elicit the same FDM-suppressing effect as their opiate receptor-active (L-) counterparts. Since some opiates are thought to act at NMDA receptors, we also tested whether NMDA receptor agonists and antagonists influence ocular growth or FDM. We found that both L- and D- enantiomers of morphine-like compounds (dextrorphanol and levorphanol, and D- and L-naloxone) were equally effective in blocking FDM. The NMDA receptor antagonists dextromethorphan, MK801, and AP5 also suppressed FDM. A single toxic dose of NMDA, that destroys many subtypes of amacrine cells (including those that synthesize the opioid peptide enkephalin), induced myopia and ocular enlargement in ungoggled eyes, and eliminated the ability of form-deprivation to enhance ocular growth. The NR-1 subunit of the NMDA receptor was localized to a narrowly stratified, intense stratum at approximately 50% depth in the inner plexiform layer, diffusely throughout the proximal inner plexiform layer, and to many somata in the amacrine and ganglion cell layers. These observations suggest that most effects of opiate receptor ligands on FDM in the chick are mediated by non-opiate receptors, which are likely to include NMDA receptors. NMDA as an excitotoxin transiently enhances ocular growth, but thereafter disables retinal mechanisms that promote emmetropization and FDM. These observations are consistent with a prominent role for pathways utilizing NMDA receptors in FDM and ocular growth-control.
The radiant flux (F) transmitted by bandpass interference filters of similar type is approximately proportional to the product of peak transmittance (tp) and half-height bandwidth (Wh). A study of 297 filters of varied design (1-, 2-, 3-cavity), the collections of six vision laboratories, showed that this relation was not accurate across all filters. However, a simple function, incorporating Wh and another bandwidth Wi at a lower transmittance t, predicts F with a precision that is ample (+/- 5%) for most psychophysical research. This function provides a rapid means of calibration. Bandwidth errors caused by 2- and 3-cavity filters are discussed as well as their luminous 'blocking' efficacy.
Studies carried out over the past two decades show that many platyrrhine (New World) monkeys have polymorphic color vision. This condition results from the sorting of allelic versions of X-chromosome cone opsin genes at a single gene site, yielding a mixture of dichromatic and trichromatic phenotypes in the population. Two genera of platyrrhine monkey are known to deviate significantly from this pattern. Examination of color vision, photopigments, and photopigment genes of all of these monkeys have stimulated a renewed interest in understanding the evolution of primate color vision.
A modified Moreland anomaloscope was used to examine two subjects, one with dense macular pigment, the other with relatively light pigmentation. Chromatic visual evoked potentials (VEPs) were elicited from these two subjects using coarse, isoluminant gratings of different sizes. Colour-specificity was verified by comparing chromatic onset VEPs (reflecting sustained activity) with chromatic reversal VEPs (reflecting mainly transient activity) and also by Fourier analysis (colour-specific responses are dominated by the fundamental, transient activity by the second harmonic). Achromatic (transient-type) intrusions, produced by large blue-green gratings could be related to the extent of subject-specific macular pigmentation.
In Xenopus oocytes, lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) evoked inward currents at the holding potential of -60 mV, which were quickly desensitized upon repeated challenges of the compound at 10 nM or 1 microM. This desensitization was prevented by pretreatment with protein kinase A inhibitor or recovered by its post-treatment, but not by the pretreatment with an inhibitor of protein kinase C or calmodulin kinase II. From pharmacological studies, the LPA-evoked currents were found to be mediated by phospholipase C, calcium-mobilization from thapsigargin-sensitive Ca2+ stores, araguspongine E-sensitive inositol trisphosphate receptor, and calcium-dependent chloride channels.
In adult rats, kainic acid-induced status epilepticus reduces GluR2 subunit expression prior to neurodegeneration of hippocampal CA3 neurons. Increased formation of Ca2+ permeable AMPA receptors may contribute to the delayed neurodegenerative process. In rat pups, highly prone to seizures but resistant to seizure-induced hippocampal damage, GluR2 mRNA and protein expression remain constant in CA3 neurons possibly contributing to their survival. To investigate whether reduced GluR2 expression in hippocampus may lead to enhanced hippocampal vulnerability in an age-dependent manner and whether changes correspond to altered electroencephalography (EEG) patterns, unilateral microinfusion of GluR2 antisense oligodeoxynucleotides (AS-ODNs) into hippocampus was performed at three ages (postnatal (P8), P13, and adult). At P13, GluR2 knockdown resulted in spontaneous seizure-like behavioral manifestations and neurodegeneration of CA3 neurons lateral and distal from the cannula infusion site. EEG recordings revealed high rhythmic activity associated with seizure-like behavior. In P8 pups and adult rats, there were no behavioral manifestations; distant hippocampal damage of the CA3 was not observed. Results indicate that unilateral knockdown of hippocampal GluR2 subunit expression induces age-dependent seizure-like behavioral manifestations, altered EEG recording patterns, and reduces the survival of CA3 neurons in the hippocampus of young rats during a specific postnatal period (3rd week), when GluR2 expression peaks in development and glutamatergic inputs are maturing.
In unilaterally 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats, potentiation of D1-agonist-induced turning behavior by priming with l-DOPA was correlated with changes in striatal neuropeptide mRNA levels. In non-primed rats, administration of the D1-agonist SKF-38393 markedly increased dynorphin and substance P mRNA levels in the lesioned striatum. Priming with l-DOPA dissociated the response of the two neuropeptides to the D1-agonist, with higher dynorphin and reduced substance P mRNA levels.
Histone acetylation has a key role in transcriptional activation, whereas deacetylation of histones correlates with the transcriptional repression and silencing of genes. Genetic repression may have an important role in neuronal aging, atrophy and degenerative diseases. Our aim was to study how histone deacetylase inhibitors, trichostatin A (TSA) and sodium butyrate, affect the metabolism of cultured rat cerebellar granule neurons and mouse Neuro-2a neuroblastoma cells. Cultured cells were exposed to 1-3 microM TSA and 1-10 mM butyrate for 1-2 days. Both of these inhibitors induced a prominent neuronal apoptosis characterized by morphological changes as well as by the activation of caspase-3 protease and subsequent cleavage of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase, one of the caspase-3 targets. Caspase-3 activities reached the highest level on the second day after treatment, higher in the proliferating neuroblastoma cells than in the cerebellar granule neurons. Caspase-3 activation and morphological changes were prevented by cycloheximide treatment. Histone deacetylase inhibitors increased the DNA-binding activities of AP1, CREB and NF-kappaB transcription factors. These observations show that an excessive level of histone acetylation induces a stress response and an apoptotic cell death in neuronal cells.

In this study, the binding of [3H]5-HT to the cloned dog 5-hydroxytryptamine1B (dog 5-HT1B) receptor, stably expressed in Chinese hamster ovary cells (ATCC CCL 61)(CHO-K1), was characterised and its pharmacology compared with that of the cloned human and rat 5-HT1B receptors. [3H]5-HT specifically labeled, with high affinity, an apparently homogeneous population of binding sites in the dog 5-HT1B receptor cell line yielding a pKd of 8.1. [3H]5-HT inhibition and agonist-induced [35S] guanosine 5'[gamma-thio] triphosphate ([35S]GTPgammaS) binding studies revealed comparable results with the human but not the rat 5-HT1B receptor. In all three recombinant receptor cell lines, methiothepin displayed inverse agonism and GR127935 (N-[4-methoxy-3-(4-methyl-1-piperizinyl)phenyl]-2'-methyl-4'-(5-me thyl-1,2,4-oxadiazole-3-yl)[1,1'-biphenyl]-carboxamide) weak partial agonism.
The melanocortins form a family of pro-opiomelanocortin-derived peptides that have the melanocyte-stimulating hormone (MSH) core sequence, His-Phe-Arg-Trp, in common. Melanocortins have been described as having a variety of cardiovascular effects. We review here what is known about the sites and mechanisms of action of the melanocortins with respect to their effects on cardiovascular function, with special attention to the effects of the gamma-melanocyte-stimulating hormones (gamma-MSHs). This is done in the context of present knowledge about agonist selectivity and localisation of the five melanocortin receptor subtypes cloned so far. gamma2-MSH, its des-Gly12 analog (= gamma1-MSH) and Lys-gamma2-MSH are 5-10 times more potent than adrenocorticotropic hormone-(4-10)(ACTH-(4-10)) to induce a pressor and tachycardiac effect following intravenous administration. The Arg-Phe sequence near the C-terminal seems to be important for full in vivo intrinsic activity. Related peptides with a C-terminal extension with (gamma3-MSH) or without the Arg-Phe sequence (alpha-MSH, as well as the potent alpha-MSH analog, [Nle4,D-Phe7]alpha-MSH), are, however, devoid of these effects. In contrast, ACTH-(1-24) has a depressor effect combined with a tachycardiac effect, effects which are not dependent on the presence of the adrenals. Although the melanocortin MC3 receptor is the only melanocortin receptor subtype for which gamma2-MSH is selective, in vivo and in vitro structure-activity data indicate that it is not via this receptor that this peptide and related peptides exert either their pressor and tachycardiac effects or their extra- and intracranial blood flow increasing effect. We review evidence that the pressor and tachycardiac effects of the gamma-MSHs are due to an increase of sympathetic outflow to the vasculature and the heart, secondary to activation of centrally located receptors. These receptors are most likely localised in the anteroventral third ventricle (AV3V) region, a brain region situated outside the blood-brain barrier, and to which circulating peptides have access. These receptors might be melanocortin receptors of a subtype yet to be identified. Alternatively, they might be related to other receptors for which peptides with a C-terminal Arg-Phe sequence have affinity, such as the neuropeptide FF receptor and the recently discovered FMRFamide receptor. Melanocortin MC4 receptors and still unidentified receptors are part of the circuitry in the medulla oblongata which is involved in the depressor and bradycardiac effect of the melanocortins, probably via interference with autonomic outflow. Regarding the effects of the gamma-MSHs on cortical cerebral blood flow, it is not yet clear whether they involve activation of the sympathetic nervous system or activation of melanocortin receptors located on the cerebral vasculature. The depressor effect observed following intravenous administration of ACTH-(1-24) is thought to be due to activation of melanocortin MC2 receptors whose location may be within the peripheral vasculature. Melanocortins have been observed to improve cardiovascular function and survival time in experimental hemorrhagic shock in various species. Though ACTH-(1-24) is the most potent melanocortin in this model, alpha-MSH and [Nle4,D-Phe7]alpha-MSH and ACTH-(4-10) are quite effective as well. As ACTH-(4-10) is a rather weak agonist of all melanocortin receptors, it is difficult to determine via which of the melanocortin receptors the melanocortins bring about this effect. Research into the nature of the receptors involved in the various cardiovascular effects of the melanocortins would greatly benefit from the availability of selective melanocortin receptor antagonists.
Human nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR) subtypes alpha3 beta2, alpha3 beta2 alpha5, alpha3 beta4, and alpha3 beta4 alpha5 were stably expressed in cells derived from the human embryonic kidney cell line 293. alpha3 beta4 AChRs were found in prominent 2-micrometer patches on the cell surface, whereas most alpha3 beta2 AChRs were more diffusely distributed. The functional properties of the alpha3 AChRs in tsA201 cells were characterized by whole cell patch clamp using both acetylcholine and nicotine as agonists. Nicotine was a partial agonist on alpha3 beta4 AChRs and nearly a full agonist on alpha3 beta2 alpha5 AChRs. Chronic exposure of cells expressing alpha3 beta2 AChRs or alpha3 beta2 alpha5 AChRs to nicotine or carbamylcholine increased their amount up to 24-fold but had no effect on the amount of alpha3beta4 or alpha3 beta4 alpha5 AChRs, i.e. the up-regulation of alpha3 AChRs depended on the presence of beta2 but not beta4 subunits in the AChRs. This was also found to be true of alpha3 AChRs in the human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y. In the absence of nicotine, alpha3 beta2 AChRs were expressed at much lower levels than alpha3 beta4 AChRs, but in the presence of nicotine, the amount of alpha3 beta2 AChRs exceeded that of alpha3 beta4 AChRs. Up-regulation was seen for both total AChRs and surface AChRs. Up-regulated alpha3beta2 AChRs were functional. The nicotinic antagonists curare and dihydro-beta-erythroidine also up-regulated alpha3 beta2 AChRs, but only by 3-5-fold. The channel blocker mecamylamine did not cause up-regulation of alpha3 beta2 AChRs and inhibited up-regulation by nicotine. Our data suggest that up-regulation of alpha3 beta2 AChRs in these lines by nicotine results from both increased subunit assembly and decreased AChR turnover.
We report evidence for a contribution of tetrodotoxin-resistant sodium current (TTX-R INa) to prostaglandin E2 (PGE2)-induced hyperalgesia. Behavioral experiments were performed in rats chronically implanted with spinal cannulae. The study employed intrathecal administration of oligodeoxynucleotide (ODN) antisense to the recently cloned channel underlying TTX-R INa (PN3/SNS). The nociceptive flexion reflex was employed to determine changes in mechanical stimulus-induced paw-withdrawal threshold. Administration of antisense but not of sense or mismatch ODN, led to a decrease in PGE2-induced hyperalgesia. PGE2-induced hyperalgesia returned to normal 7 days after the last injection of antisense ODN. Antisense ODN selectively and significantly reduced TTX-R INa current density in cultured sensory neurons. Our observations support the hypothesis that modulation of TTX-R INa, present in peripheral terminals of primary afferent nociceptors, contributes, at least in part, to inflammatory hyperalgesia. Since TTX-R INa is found only in primary afferent nociceptors, our findings suggest TTX-R INa as a promising target for novel therapeutic interventions for the treatment of inflammatory pain.
Transporters for the biogenic amines dopamine, norepinephrine, epinephrine and serotonin are largely responsible for transmitter inactivation after release. They also serve as high-affinity targets for a number of clinically relevant psychoactive agents, including antidepressants, cocaine, and amphetamines. Despite their prominent role in neurotransmitter inactivation and drug responses, we lack a clear understanding of the permeation pathway or regulation mechanisms at the single transporter level. The resolution of radiotracer-based flux techniques limits the opportunities to dissect these problems. Here we combine patch-clamp recording techniques with microamperometry to record the transporter-mediated flux of norepinephrine across isolated membrane patches. These data reveal voltage-dependent norepinephrine flux that correlates temporally with antidepressant-sensitive transporter currents in the same patch. Furthermore, we resolve unitary flux events linked with bursts of transporter channel openings. These findings indicate that norepinephrine transporters are capable of transporting neurotransmitter across the membrane in discrete shots containing hundreds of molecules. Amperometry is used widely to study neurotransmitter distribution and kinetics in the nervous system and to detect transmitter release during vesicular exocytosis. Of interest regarding the present application is the use of amperometry on inside-out patches with synchronous recording of flux and current. Thus, our results further demonstrate a powerful method to assess transporter function and regulation.
The cause of dopaminergic cell death in Parkinson's disease (PD) remains unknown, but may involve oxidative stress and mitochondrial complex I deficiency. Opening of the permeability transition pore and disruption of the mitochondrial transmembrane potential are known to be common events in the apoptotic pathway. Cyclosporin A and its non-immunosuppressant analogue, N-methyl-4-valine cyclosporin inhibit the opening of the mitochondrial megachannel. Complex I inhibitors, including MPP+, are known to induce both apoptosis in cell culture and parkinsonism in man and other primates. The present study using propidium iodide and FITC-TUNEL staining to identify apoptotic cells, demonstrates that rotenone, MPP+ and tetrahydroisoquinoline induce apoptosis in PC12 cells. Apoptosis induced by these agents was decreased by cyclosporin A and N-methyl-4-valine cyclosporin. Thus, apoptosis induced by inhibitors of mitochondrial complex I is probably mediated by permeability pore opening and collapse of the mitochondrial membrane potential. This observation may allow the development of novel neuroprotective strategies in disorders that may involve mitochondrial dysfunction and apoptotic cell death.
The effects of acute and repeated administration of Delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol (Delta9-THC), the psychoactive principle of marijuana, on acetylcholine release in the hippocampus was studied in freely moving rats by microdialysis. The acute intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration of Delta9-THC at the doses of 2.5 and 5 mg/kg reduced acetylcholine release by about 25% and 45%, respectively. A dose of 7.5 mg/kg produced no further reduction. Delta9-THC effects were antagonized by the cannabinoid CB1 antagonist SR141716A at the i.p. dose of 1 mg/kg, per se ineffective in modifying acetylcholine concentrations. After a repeated exposure (twice daily for up to seven days) to Delta9-THC (7.5 mg/kg, i.p.) or vehicle (0.3 ml/kg, i.p.), the inhibitory effect of Delta9-THC (2.5 and 5 mg/kg, i.p) on acetylcholine release was not reduced. The results confirm previous observations that cannabinoids inhibit acetylcholine release through cannabinoid CB1 receptors, and indicate that no tolerance to this effects develops after a repeated Delta9-THC administration.
The Snell dwarf mouse (Pit1dw-J homozygote) has a mutation in the Pit1 gene that prevents the normal formation of the anterior pituitary. In neonates and adults there is almost complete absence of growth hormone (GH), prolactin (PRL), thyroxin (T4), and thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH). Since these hormones have been suggested to play a role in normal development of the central nervous system (CNS), we have investigated the effects of the Pit1dw-J mutation on the cerebellum and hippocampal formation. In the cerebellum, there were abnormalities of both foliation and lamination. The major foliation anomalies were 1) changes in the relative size of specific folia and also the proportional sizes of the anterior vs posterior cerebellum; and 2) the presence of between one and three microfolia per half cerebellum. The microfolia were all in the medial portion of the hemisphere in the caudal part of the cerebellum. Each microfolium was just rostral to a normal fissure and interposed between the fissure and a normal gyrus. Lamination abnormalities included an increase in the number of single ectopic granule cells in the molecular layer in both cerebellar vermis (86%) and hemisphere (40%) in comparison with the wild-type mouse. In the hippocampus of the Pit1dw-J homozygote mouse, the number of pyramidal cells was decreased, although the width of the pyramidal cell layer throughout areas CA1-CA3 appeared to be normal, but less densely populated than in the wild-type mouse. Moreover, the number of granule cells that form the granule cell layer was decreased from the wild-type mouse and some ectopic granule cells (occurring both as single cells and as small clusters) were observed in the innermost portion of the molecular layer. The abnormalities observed in the Pit1dw-J homozygote mouse seem to be caused by both direct and indirect effects of the deficiency of TSH (or T4), PRL, or GH rather than by a direct effect of the deletion of Pit1.
We aimed to ascertain whether pyrethroid insecticides could influence the vesicular transport of the excitatory amino acid glutamate. The incubation of rat cortical synaptic vesicles with resmethrin and permethrin, consistently stimulated both ATP-dependent and -independent uptake of [3H]glutamate, while not evoking depletion of its vesicular content. Both processes were counteracted by valinomycin, a dissipator of the transmembrane potential gradient (deltapsi(sv)). Meanwhile, the vesicular influx of 36Cl- anions was impaired by pyrethroid concentrations which did not affect the ATP-dependent uptake of [14C]methylamine, as a marker for the proton gradient (deltapH). Thus, the stimulation of glutamate transport appeared to involve mainly the deltapsi(sv). A self-attenuating effect of selected pyrethroids on putatively enhanced excitatory transmission in severe intoxication is suggested.
We investigated the effect of domoate, kainate and AMPA on 45Ca2+ uptake and on metabolic activity of cultured chick amacrine-like cells, as measured by reduction of 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT). Domoate and kainate stimulated 45Ca2+ uptake and decreased MTT reduction, in a LY 303070-sensitive manner. AMPA caused a small increase on 45Ca2+ uptake, but it was without effect on MTT reduction. AMPA reduced both the 45Ca2+ entry and neurotoxicity induced by kainate, and cyclothiazide enhanced both the 45Ca2+ entry and neurotoxicity induced by AMPA. The results indicate that the AMPA receptors are the non-NMDA glutamate receptors involved in excitotoxicity.
The relation between angiogenesis and tissue expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) was studied in a series of 14 capillary cerebellar hemangioblastomas. In the present series, the number of intratumoral microvessels, identified by the endothelial marker CD34, does not correlate with the degree of VEGF expression. This finding suggests that endothelial growth factors other than VEGF may regulate tumor angiogenesis in these neoplasms.
Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) dose dependently increased extracellular acidification rate in Ltk cells stably expressing human recombinant alpha1beta3gamma2 GABA(A) receptors but had no effect in non-transfected controls. Cells seeded at 1 x 10(5) cells/cup, with 4-5 days induction, had basal acidification rates of 105+/-2 microVs(-1) at 37 degrees C (mean+/-standard error of mean, n=37). GABA responses had a characteristic time-course with an initial alkalinisation followed by a peak of acidification, which was optimized by increasing agonist exposure from 15 s to 25-30 s. The maximum concentration of GABA tested (100 microM) produced a 40+/-2% increase over basal acidification rate (n=3), with an EC50 of 15.5 microM and a Hill slope of 1.5. Responses were specifically antagonized by bicuculline and could be modulated by benzodiazepine ligands with varying efficacies. Full benzodiazepine agonists flunitrazepam (1 microM) and zolpidem (10 microM) significantly potentiated the response to 10 microM GABA by 124+/-15% (n=7) and 117+/-23% (n=3), respectively. The partial agonist bretazenil (100 nM) produced a 45+/-13% (n=3) potentiation whilst the inverse agonist DMCM (10 microM) (methyl 6,7-dimethoxy-4-ethyl-beta-carboline-3-carboxylate) inhibited the response to 20 microM GABA by 53+/-5%. The microphysiometer offers an alternative functional measure for GABA(A) receptors with the sensitivity to measure subtle modulatory effects of benzodiazepine site ligands and to determine their relative efficacy.
Electrical stimulation of the spinal tract of the trigeminal nerve at 5 Hz to elicit the trigeminal depressor response in anesthetized rabbits also causes an acute fall in ear pinna blood flow to near zero levels (from 31+/-8 to 2+/-2 kHz, n = 5, P &lt; 0.01). This active vasoconstriction in the ear artery contrasts with the active vasodilation in femoral, renal and mesenteric arteries known to be part of the trigeminal depressor response. The selective vasoconstriction observed in the ear bed in response to noxious stimulation in anesthetized rabbits is similar to the vigorous acute vasoconstriction occurring in this cutaneous bed in conscious rabbits responding to salient environmental stimuli.
The effects of cholinergic agonists on nitric oxide (NO) release in hippocampal slices from male Sprague-Dawley rats were investigated using electrochemical recording procedures using Nafion and O-phenylenediamine-treated carbon fiber microelectrodes. These microelectrodes are highly selective for NO versus other interferents. Acetylcholine (Ach) with neostigmine, or nicotine was delivered by pressure ejection from pipettes placed within 300 microm of the NO sensors. Both Ach and nicotine produced NO signals ranging from 0.04 to 2.14 microM in the CA1, CA3, and dentate gyrus of the rat hippocampus that lasted for 2-5 min. The Ach responses were not antagonized by the muscarinic antagonist atropine. However, nicotine-evoked responses were partially antagonized by alpha-bungarotoxin, a finding consistent with alpha7-nicotinic cholinergic receptors being involved with the effects of nicotine. These data support the hypothesis that nicotine is capable of evoking long lasting NO release in the hippocampus.
Muscarinic agonists were tested in two models indicative of clinical antipsychotic activity: conditioned avoidance responding (CAR) in rats and inhibition of apomorphine-induced climbing in mice. The standard muscarinic agonists oxotremorine and pilocarpine were both active in these tests but showed little separation between efficacy and cholinergic side effects. Structure-activity relationships of the alkylthio-1,2,5-thiadiazole azacyclic type muscarinic partial agonists are shown, revealing the exo-6-(3-propyl/butylthio-1,2, 5-thiadiazol-4-yl)-1-azabicyclo[3.2.1]octane analogues (4a,b and 9a, b) to be the most potent antipsychotic agents with large separation between efficacy and cholinergic side effects. The lack of enantiomeric selectivity suggests the pharmacophoric elements are in the mirror plane of the compounds. A model explaining the potency differences of closely related compounds is offered. The data suggest that muscarinic agonists act as functional dopamine antagonists and that they could become a novel treatment of psychotic patients.
Diphosphoinositol pentakisphosphate (PP-IP5) and bis(diphospho)inositol tetrakisphosphate (bis-PP-IP4) were recently identified as inositol phosphates which possess pyrophosphate bonds. The molecular mechanisms that regulate the cellular levels of these compounds are not yet characterized. To pursue this question, we have previously purified an inositol hexakisphosphate (IP6) kinase from rat brain supernatants [Voglmaier, S. M., et al. (1996) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 93, 4305-4310]. We now report the identification and purification of another novel kinase, diphosphoinositol pentakisphosphate (PP-IP5) kinase, which uses PP-IP5 as a substrate to form bis(diphospho)inositol tetrakisphosphate (bis-PP-IP4) in soluble fractions of rat forebrain. The purified protein, a monomer of 56 kDa, displays high affinity (Km = 0.7 microM) and selectivity for PP-IP5 as a substrate. The purified enzyme also can transfer a phosphate from bis-PP-IP4 to ADP to form ATP. This ATP synthase activity is an indication of the high phosphoryl group transfer potential of bis-PP-IP4 and may represent a physiological role for PP-IP5 and bis-PP-IP4.
Inert gases at raised pressure exert anaesthetic effects. It is assumed that anaesthesia by the inert gases is fundamentally similar to anaesthesia produced by general anaesthetics. However, do general anaesthetics bind directly to proteins or influence activity by indirectly perturbing membrane lipids still remains a major question. Although the pressure required to achieve anaesthesia with inert gases has been suggested to exert potentially some pressure antagonism per se, this has not been studied yet to our knowledge. We investigated this possibility using nitrogen, argon, and nitrous oxide. Whatever the narcotic agent used, our results showed that the pressure of narcotic required to induce anaesthetic effects increased, as compression rate increased, in a sigmoid fashion rather than in a linear fashion. Evidence for sigmodal responses vs. linear responses depended of the narcotic potency of the anaesthetic agent used (nitrogen: r2=0.973 vs. r2=0.941; argon: r2=0. 971 vs. r2=0.866; nitrous oxide: r2=0.995 vs. r2=0.879). Since a linear antagonism is predicted by lipid theories, we think it likely that these findings indicate that inert gases bind to a modulatory site of a protein receptor and act as allosteric modulators. Since other workers provided evidence for binding processes using volatile anaesthetics, the present findings could indicate that all classes of general anaesthetics, including inert gases, could act by binding directly to proteins rather than by dissolving in some lipids of the cellular membrane.
The present studies were conducted to investigate the role of 5-HT2C and 5-HT2B receptors in the generation of pentylenetetrazol and electroshock-evoked seizures. The 5-HT2C/2B receptor-preferring agonist 1-(m-chlorophenyl)-piperazine (mCPP; 2.5-7 mg/kg i.p.) weakly elevated seizure threshold in the mouse (but not the rat) electroshock test and also provided appreciable protection against pentylenetetrazol-induced myoclonic and/or tonic seizures in mice and rats, an action that was inhibited by the 5-HT2C/2B receptor antagonist 5-methyl-1-(3-pyridylcarbomoyl)-1,2,3,5-tetrahydropyrrolo[2, 3-f]indole (SB-206553; 10-20 mg/kg p.o.). In contrast, the 5-HT2B receptor agonist 1-[5-(2-thienylmethoxy)-1H-3-indoyl]propan-2-amine hydrochloride (BW-723C86; 3-30 mg/kg s.c.) had no effect on the threshold for generalised seizures in any of the models employed. These results indicate that the observed anticonvulsant effects of mCPP are likely to be mediated by activation of 5-HT2C receptors. However, blockade of these receptors in mice (or rats) by SB-206553 (5-20 mg/kg p.o.) did not result in the reduced seizure threshold characteristic of mutant mice deficient of 5-HT2C receptors, suggesting that in normal adult animals this receptor subtype may usually be subjected to only a low level of 5-hydroxytryptamine tone.
Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are initially expressed diffusely on the surface of myotubes and, in response to neuronally derived factors, cluster at the endplate to a final concentration of approximately 10000/microm2. The synaptic peripheral membrane protein rapsyn has been shown to mediate clustering of nAChRs in several systems. Here we describe the use of the yeast two-hybrid system to identify proteins that can interact with rapsyn. One of the clones we have identified is a Torpedo californica homolog of the Src-associated in mitosis protein (Sam68). We further show that Sam68, like rapsyn, is localized at the neuromuscular junction.
G-protein-regulated inwardly rectifying K+ (GIRK) channels play critical inhibitory roles throughout the nervous system, heart, and pancreas. They are believed to be heterotetramers consisting of GIRK1 (Kir3.1) and either GIRK2 (Kir3.2), GIRK3 (Kir3.3), or GIRK4 (Kir3.4) subunits. The GIRK1 subunit is hypothesized to be critical to form GIRK channels with normal channel kinetics based on heterologous expression studies. However, GIRK2 and GIRK3 proteins are present in areas of the brain where no GIRK1 has been detected. Here we demonstrate that GIRK tetramers lacking GIRK1 can be purified from bovine heart atria. We have found that only half of GIRK4 is purified as the GIRK1-GIRK4 heterotetramer, whereas the remaining GIRK4 forms a high molecular weight, SDS-resistant complex that does not contain GIRK1. These GIRK4 complexes, most likely GIRK4 homotetramers, were previously not seen because of their aberrant migration on SDS-polyacrylamide gels. We propose that all of GIRK1 and half of GIRK4 proteins in atria combine to form the heterotetramer IKACh, whereas the remaining GIRK4 forms a novel tetrameric complex. GIRK4 homotetramers form channels with unusual single channel behavior, and their contribution to native currents requires further investigation.
The neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) is known to participate in both homophilic and heterophilic binding, the latter including mechanisms that involve interaction with proteoglycans. The polysialic acid (PSA) moiety of NCAM can serve as a negative regulator of homophilic binding, but indirect evidence has suggested that PSA can also be involved in heterophilic binding. We have examined this potential positive role for PSA in terms of the adhesion of PSA-expressing mouse F11 cells and chick embryonic brain cells to substrates composed of the purified heparan sulfate proteoglycans agrin and 6C4. This adhesion was specifically inhibited by polyclonal anti-NCAM Fab antibodies, monoclonal anti-PSA antibodies, PSA itself, and enzymatic removal of either PSA or heparan sulfate side chains. By contrast, the adhesion was not affected by chondroitinase, and cell binding to laminin was not inhibited by any of these treatments. A specific NCAM-heparan sulfate interaction in this adhesion was further indicated by its inhibition with monoclonal anti-NCAM Fab antibodies that recognize the known heparin-binding domain of NCAM and with the HBD-2 peptide derived from this region, but not with antibodies directed against other regions of the protein including the homophilic binding region. Together, the results suggest that PSA can act in vitro either as a receptor in NCAM heterophilic adhesion or as a promoter of binding between heparan sulfate proteoglycans and the NCAM heparin-binding domain.
Abnormalities involving intracellular calcium homeostasis have been detected in Alzheimer's disease brain and fibroblasts as well as presenilin-1 mutation-bearing cells. In the present study we investigated inositol(1,4,5)trisphosphate-mediated calcium transients as well as calcium responses via mechanisms not related to surface receptors in Alzheimer's disease polymorphonuclear (PMN) granulocytes, using the tripeptide formyl-methionyl-leucyl-phenyl alanine (fMLP) and calcium ionophore ionomycin, respectively. fMLP elicited a biphasic response with an initial, fast increase in intracellular free calcium concentrations followed by a second, lower phase with no significant differences in either maximal response or time course between Alzheimer's disease granulocytes and controls. Similarly, the calcium signal elicited after ionomycin exposure was unchanged in Alzheimer's disease PMN. In conclusion, these results indicate that calcium mobilization from intracellular stores and via cross-membrane mechanisms is intact in Alzheimer's disease granulocytes.
Traumatic brain injury is associated with behavioral deficits, often in the absence of histopathological or ultrastructural changes. To determine whether membrane remodeling occurs, immunocytochemical techniques were used and the density and distribution of GAP-43 were measured. GAP-43 is a membrane-bound protein, which, when phosphorylated, is thought to regulate metabolic pathways involved in membrane remodeling and neurite growth. Moderate central fluid percussion injury (FPI, 1.9-2.2 atm.) was performed on anesthetized, spontaneously hypertensive Wistar rats (SHR). Behavioral reflex recovery was consistent with moderate levels of brain injury. One, 3, 5, 7 and 9 days after injury, both sham control (n = 4) and FPI (n = 4) animals were sacrificed, the brains were removed, cryosectioned and processed. Density measurements were taken from histological sections taken at interaural 6.20 mm and bregma -2.80 mm and were found to be statistically greater (P &lt; 0.05) than background grey matter readings in the agranular cortices, the frontal, hindlimb, parietal 1 and 2 cortices, and the hippocampus and dentate gyrus, excluding the pyramidal and granular cell layers. Density measurements taken in forelimb and hindlimb cortical regions correlate with forelimb and hindlimb recovery in foot-fault and beam balance tests (P &lt; 0.05). We interpret these data to indicate neuronal membrane remodeling as a result of the disruption of neuronal membranes due to the impact and shearing forces associated with the FPI. The disruption and remodeling of neuronal membranes are in areas that are consistent with the loss and recovery of locomotor and spatial behavior as a result of FPI.
Histidine decarboxylase (HDC) catalyzes the formation of histamine, which takes part in a variety of physiological processes including gastric acid secretion, neurotransmission and inflammation. While purified rat HDC is a homodimer of approximately 54 kDa subunits, molecular cloning of mammalian HDC has revealed that HDC mRNA encodes a 74 kDa protein. This discrepancy in molecular mass may be due to a posttranslational processing of the primary translated product of rat HDC mRNA. In the present study we demonstrate that full-length rat HDC expressed in Escherichia coli or in an in vitro transcription/translation system is enzymatically inactive, while expression of a C-terminus truncated HDC (reducing the molecular mass to 54 kDa) gave rise to a protein with high enzyme activity in the same expression systems. COS-7 cells expressing truncated HDC displayed high HDC activity, whereas COS-7 cells expressing full-length HDC displayed low activity. Western blot analysis of fetal rat liver and oxyntic mucosa of gastrin-stimulated rats revealed the presence of both full-length HDC (approximately 73 kDa) and a approximately 53 kDa subunit form in addition to an intermediate form of about 63 kDa. The results are in line with the view that rat HDC may be produced as an enzymatically inactive proenzyme which is processed to give rise to the active enzyme.
Previous estimates have placed the energy requirements of total phospholipid metabolism in mammalian brain at 2% or less of total ATP consumption. This low estimate was consistent with the very long half-lives (up to days) reported for fatty acids esterified within phospholipids. However, using an approach featuring analysis of brain acyl-CoA, which takes into account dilution of the precursor acyl-CoA pool by recycling of fatty acids, we reported that half-lives of fatty acids in phospholipids are some 100 times shorter (min-h) than previously thought. Based on these new estimates of short half-lives, palmitic acid and arachidonic acid were used as prototype fatty acids to calculate energy consumption by fatty acid recycling at the sn-1 and sn-2 positions of brain phospholipids. We calculated that the energy requirements for reacylation of fatty acids into lysophospholipids are 5% of net brain ATP consumption. We also calculated ATP requirements for maintaining asymmetry of the aminophospholipids, phosphatidylserine and phosphatidylethanolamine across brain membrane bilayers. This asymmetry is maintained by a translocase at a stoichiometry of 1 mol of ATP per mol of phospholipid transferred in either direction across the membrane. The energy cost of maintaining membrane bilayer asymmetry of aminophospholipids at steady-state was calculated to be 8% of total ATP consumed. Taken together, deacylation-reacylation and maintenance of membrane asymmetry of phosphatidylserine and phosphatidylethanolamine require about 13% of ATP consumed by brain as a whole. This is a lower limit for energy consumption by processes involving phospholipids, as other processes, including phosphorylation of polyphosphoinositides and de novo phospholipid biosynthesis, were not considered.


In this article we outline the highlights of this special issue of the journal containing a series of articles covering many aspects of current interest in the field of imidazoline receptor research. This volume is the result of an international symposium held in September 1997 in Melbourne as an official satellite of the inaugural meeting of the International Society of Autonomic Neurosciences held in Cairns, Australia. A wide range of topics relating to imidazoline receptors were canvassed, including endogenous and synthetic ligands, identification and localisation of binding sites, putative transduction mechanisms and experimental and clinical functional studies.
The directional activity of whole muscles has been shown to be broadly and often multimodally tuned, raising the question of how this tuning is subserved at the level of single motor units (SMUs). Previously defined rules of SMU activation would predict that units of the same muscle (or at least of the same neuromuscular compartment) are activated homogeneously with activity peaks in the same &quot;best&quot; direction(s). In the present study, the best directions of SMUs in human biceps (both heads) and deltoid (anterior, medial, and posterior portions) were determined by measuring the firing rate and threshold force of units for recruitment during isometric force ramps in many different directions. For all muscles studied, neighboring motor units could have significantly different best directions, suggesting that each muscle receives multiple directional commands. Furthermore, 17% of the units sampled clearly had a second-best direction, consistent with a convergence of different directional commands onto the same motoneuron. The best directions of the units changed gradually with location in the muscle. Best directions did not cluster into separate groups, thus, not supporting the existence of clearly distinguished neuromuscular compartments. Instead, the results reveal a more gradually distributed activation of the biceps and deltoid motoneuron pools. A model is proposed in which the central control mechanism optimizes the fulfillment of the continuously changing directional force requirements of a movement by gradually recruiting and derecruiting those units ideally suited for the production of the required force vector at any given time.
Prepulse inhibition (PPI), a phenomenon in which a weak prestimulus decreases the startle response to an intense stimulus, provides an operational measure of sensorimotor gating (a process by which an organism filters sensory information) and is diminished in schizophrenia and schizotypal patients. The psychotomimetic phencyclidine and its potent congener dizocilpine are noncompetitive antagonists of the NMDA receptor complex, and they disrupt PPI in rodents, mimicking the clinically observed PPI deficit. The neuroanatomical substrates mediating the PPI-disruptive effects of noncompetitive NMDA antagonists are unknown. The present study sought to identify brain regions subserving the disruption of PPI produced by noncompetitive NMDA antagonists in rats. PPI was measured in startle chambers immediately after bilateral infusion of dizocilpine (0, 0.25, 1.25, and 6.25 microgram/0.5 microliter/side) into one of six brain regions: amygdala, dorsal hippocampus, medial prefrontal cortex, nucleus accumbens, ventral hippocampus, and dorsomedial thalamus. Dizocilpine significantly decreased PPI after infusion into the amygdala or dorsal hippocampus. A trend toward PPI disruption was observed with administration into medial prefrontal cortex. In contrast, no change in PPI was produced by dizocilpine infusion into nucleus accumbens, ventral hippocampus, or dorsomedial thalamus. Startle reactivity was increased by dizocilpine infusion into amygdala, dorsal hippocampus, nucleus accumbens, and dorsomedial thalamus, but not medial prefrontal cortex. These findings indicate that multiple limbic forebrain regions mediate the ability of noncompetitive NMDA antagonists to disrupt PPI and that the PPI-disruptive and the startle-increasing effects of dizocilpine are mediated by different central sites.
To explore the anatomical substrates for network hyperexcitability in adult rats that become chronically epileptic after recurrent seizures in infancy, the dendritic and axonal arbors of biocytin-filled hippocampal pyramidal cells were reconstructed. On postnatal day 10, tetanus toxin was unilaterally injected into the hippocampus and produced brief but recurrent seizures for 1 week. Later, hippocampal slices taken from these rats exhibited synchronized network bursts in area CA3C. Both the apical and basilar dendritic arbors of CA3C pyramidal cells were markedly abnormal in these epileptic rats. There was a considerable reduction in the density of dendrite spines, although the extent of this loss could vary among dendritic segments. Spine density on terminal segments of the basilar and apical dendrites was reduced on average by 35 and 20%, respectively. In addition, the diameters of these same dendritic segments were markedly reduced. Dendritic spine loss has previously been suggested to indicate a partial deafferentation of epileptic neurons, but this interpretation is difficult to reconcile with the critical role recurrent excitatory synaptic transmission plays in the generation of synchronized network burst. In this study, axonal arbors of CA3C pyramidal cells exhibited normal branching patterns, branching complexity, and varicosity density. This suggests that if deafferentation occurs, synapses other than recurrent excitatory ones are lost. The morphological abnormalities reported here would be expected to significantly alter electrical signaling within dendrites that may contribute importantly to seizures and other behavioral sequelae of early-onset epilepsy.
Exogenous application of acetylcholine elicits inward currents in hippocampal interneurons that are mediated via alpha-bungarotoxin-sensitive nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, but synaptic responses mediated via such receptors have never been reported in mammalian brain. In the present study, EPSCs were evoked in hippocampal interneurons in rat brain slices by electrical stimulation and were recorded by using whole-cell voltage-clamp techniques. Nicotinic EPSCs were isolated pharmacologically, using antagonists to block other known types of ligand-gated ion channels, and then were tested with either alpha-bungarotoxin or methyllycaconitine, which are selective antagonists for nicotinic acetylcholine receptors that contain the alpha7 receptor subunit. Each antagonist proved highly effective at reducing the remaining synaptic current. Evoked alpha7-mediated nicotinic EPSCs also were desensitized by superfusion with 1 microM nicotine, had extrapolated reversal potentials near 0 mV, and showed strong inward rectification at positive potentials. In several interneurons, methyllycaconitine-sensitive spontaneous EPSCs also were observed that exhibited a biphasic decay rate very similar to that of the alpha7-mediated evoked response. These studies provide the first demonstration of a functional cholinergic synapse in the mammalian brain, in which the primary postsynaptic receptors are alpha-bungarotoxin-sensitive nicotinic acetylcholine receptors.
Because of its prominent expression in central nervous system inflammatory pathology by astrocytes, we examined the mechanism of human IP-10 (hIP-10) gene induction by interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) in astrocytoma cells. When present together, IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha induced robust accumulation of hIP-10 mRNA, but hIP-10 mRNA was minimally induced when astrocytoma cells were treated with individual cytokines. This pattern of expression resembled that previously described for murine IP-10 (mIP-10) gene induction in fibroblasts and in rat astroglia. Nuclear run-on experiments showed that the synergistic effect of the cytokines resulted from an increased rate of IP-10 transcriptional initiation. Functional analysis of the hIP-10 promoter after deletion and substitution mutagenesis indicated that an interferon-stimulated response element (ISRE) governed both simple response to IFN-gamma and synergy with TNF-alpha. Synergistic induction of hIP-10 also required an ISRE-proximal nuclear factor kappa-B (NFkappaB) binding site. TNF-alpha-induced NFkappaB binding activity at this site was composed of RelA (p65) homodimers. Our results document that cis-elements through which cytokines mediate synergistic induction of IP-10 in mouse and human are strictly conserved despite divergence elsewhere within the proximal 5'-flanking region.
The factors responsible for the major demyelinating disease of the central nervous system (CNS), multiple sclerosis, are poorly defined. Although T-cell-mediated immune responses play a pivotal role in establishing the inflammatory response, humoral factors also may be critical in disease progress. We have isolated a mouse monoclonal antibody (mAb 2B10) that recognizes a cell-surface molecule expressed exclusively by rat oligodendrocytes, the cells responsible for the formation and maintenance of CNS myelin. In cultures of neonatal rat spinal cord, mAb 2B10 specifically mediated oligodendrocyte cell death in the absence of complement. In the current study, mAb 2B10-producing hybridoma cells were implanted into adult rat brain ventricles, and the effect of mAb 2B10 on CNS cytoarchitecture was examined. In the optic nerves of mAb 2B10-treated animals, there was significant focal myelin degeneration near the optic chiasm. Axons in the myelin degenerate regions were largely healthy. There was no significant infiltration of hematopoietic-derived cells into the affected regions, but microglia were activated focally and phagocytosed the collapsed myelin. This study demonstrates that an antibody directed against myelin-forming cells induces CNS demyelination and supports the hypothesis that autoantibodies may play a role in CNS demyelinating diseases.
1. In mammals, unilateral labyrinthectomy induces an immediate depression of the resting discharges in the neurones of the ipsilateral vestibular nuclei. Later on, a spontaneous restoration of this activity occurs. The aim of the present study was to test the possibility that protein synthesis could be involved in the start of this process in the guinea-pig. 2. Cycloheximide (CHX), a protein synthesis inhibitor, was injected intramuscularly 1 h before (30 mg kg-1) and 5 h after (15 mg kg-1) labyrinthectomy. 3. In a first group of animals, CHX was found to induce an inhibition of protein synthesis at levels ranging from 71 to 93% for 9 h after labyrinthectomy. 4. In a second group of alert animals, we studied single unit activity of second-order vestibular neurones. It was found that, in the 12-16 h post-labyrinthectomy period, at a time when restoration began in guinea-pigs not treated with CHX, the discharges in the labyrinthectomized group treated with CHX were not different from those observed in a previous study in labyrinthectomized animals not treated with CHX. 5. We conclude that protein synthesis is not required for the start of restoration of activity in the vestibular neurones deprived of their ipsilateral labyrinthine input.

Xenografts, specifically transplantation of human cells into other species, are a valuable tool in preclinical transplantation experiments. A central issue is accurate identification of the grafted cells, particularly in cases in which cellular migration has occurred. We report that detection of grafted human cells can be achieved by in situ hybridization techniques using human centromeric probes which result in unambiguous nuclear labeling. The resulting reaction can be combined with immunocytochemical or histochemical techniques for cell-type characterization.
Investigation of the three-generation KE family, half of whose members are affected by a pronounced verbal dyspraxia, has led to identification of their core deficit as one involving sequential articulation and orofacial praxis. A positron emission tomography activation study revealed functional abnormalities in both cortical and subcortical motor-related areas of the frontal lobe, while quantitative analyses of magnetic resonance imaging scans revealed structural abnormalities in several of these same areas, particularly the caudate nucleus, which was found to be abnormally small bilaterally. A recent linkage study [Fisher, S., Vargha-Khadem, F., Watkins, K. E., Monaco, A. P. &amp; Pembry, M. E. (1998) Nat. Genet. 18, 168-170] localized the abnormal gene (SPCH1) to a 5. 6-centiMorgan interval in the chromosomal band 7q31. The genetic mutation or deletion in this region has resulted in the abnormal development of several brain areas that appear to be critical for both orofacial movements and sequential articulation, leading to marked disruption of speech and expressive language.
A Ca2+-dependent synaptic vesicle-recycling pathway emanating from the plasma membrane adjacent to the dense body at the active zone has been demonstrated by blocking pinch-off of recycling membrane by using the Drosophila mutant, shibire. Exposure of wild-type Drosophila synapses to low Ca2+/high Mg2+ saline is shown here to block this active zone recycling pathway at the stage in which invaginations of the plasma membrane develop adjacent to the dense body. These observations, in combination with our previous demonstration that exposure to high Ca2+ causes &quot;docked&quot; vesicles to accumulate in the identical location where active zone endocytosis occurs, suggest the possibility that a vesicle-recycling pathway emanating from the active zone may exist that is stimulated by exposure to elevated Ca2+, thereby causing an increase in vesicle recycling, and is suppressed by exposure to low Ca2+ saline, thereby blocking newly forming vesicles at the invagination stage. The presence of a Ca2+-dependent endocytotic pathway at the active zone opens up the following possibilities: (i) electron microscopic omega-shaped images (and their equivalent, freeze fracture dimples) observed at the active zone adjacent to the dense body could represent endocytotic images (newly forming vesicles) rather than exocytotic images; (ii) vesicles observed attached to the plasma membrane adjacent to the dense body could represent newly formed vesicles rather than vesicles &quot;docked&quot; for release of transmitter.
Echolocating big brown bats (Eptesicus fuscus) broadcast ultrasonic frequency-modulated (FM) biosonar sounds (20-100 kHz frequencies; 10-50 microseconds periods) and perceive target range from echo delay. Knowing the acuity for delay resolution is essential to understand how bats process echoes because they perceive target shape and texture from the delay separation of multiple reflections. Bats can separately perceive the delays of two concurrent electronically generated echoes arriving as little as 2 microseconds apart, thus resolving reflecting points as close together as 0.3 mm in range (two-point threshold). This two-point resolution is roughly five times smaller than the shortest periods in the bat's sounds. Because the bat's broadcasts are 2,000-4,500 microseconds long, the echoes themselves overlap and interfere with each other, to merge together into a single sound whose spectrum is shaped by their mutual interference depending on the size of the time separation. To separately perceive the delays of overlapping echoes, the bat has to recover information about their very small delay separation that was transferred into the spectrum when the two echoes interfered with each other, thus explicitly reconstructing the range profile of targets from the echo spectrum. However, the bat's 2-microseconds resolution limit is so short that the available spectral cues are extremely limited. Resolution of delay seems overly sharp just for interception of flying insects, which suggests that the bat's biosonar images are of higher quality to suit a wider variety of orientation tasks, and that biosonar echo processing is correspondingly more sophisticated than has been suspected.

Spinocerebellar ataxia is one of the most common neurological disorders. However, few therapeutics are effective for the treatment of this disorder. In the present study, we investigated the efficacy of d-serine ethylester and a related substance, d-cycloserine, as therapeutic agents for ataxia in a murine model. Both compounds are known to stereospecific modulate N-methyl-d-aspartate type glutamate receptors, and impaired glutamate-mediated signaling has been implicated in spinocerebellar ataxia. Using a microdialysis method, we found that intraperitoneal administration of d-serine ethylester increases the extracellular content of endogenous d-serine in the mouse cerebellum for at least 3 h. Maximum elevation of the extracellular d-serine was observed at 40 min after injection. An open-field study was used to assay the effect of the d-serine derivatives on movement and ataxia. In mice exhibiting cytosine arabinoside-induced ataxia, d-serine ethylester reduced the falling index in a dose-dependent manner. The effect of d-serine ethylester was stereo-specific in that l-serine ethylester had no effect on the falling index at the maximum doses tested, and was partially inhibited by 5,7-dichlorokynurenate, an antagonist that binds to the glycine-binding site. Locomotor activity was not changed by the d-serine ethylester treatment. d-cycloserine also significantly reduced the falling index of the mice. Both d-serine ethylester and d-cycloserine had longer lasting effects than other potential therapeutic reagents for ataxia. Growing evidence suggests the essential involvement of endogenous d-serine in mammalian brain function, and our results suggest that d-serine derivatives may represent an effective new therapeutic for the treatment of spinocerebellar ataxia.
DARPP-32, a dopamine and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein with an apparent molecular weight of 32 kD, is enriched in dopaminoceptive brain regions. Chief among these regions is the caudatoputamen which contains a large number of DARPP-32-containing medium sized spiny neurons. Since medium spiny neurons are a heterogeneous population with respect to connections and chemical neuroanatomy, it seemed of interest to determine whether DARPP-32 is present in all medium-sized neurons, or only within a specific subpopulation. The present study used immunocytochemistry and quantitative analysis to address this issue. We demonstrate that DARPP-32 is contained in almost all medium-sized neurons (96.4%) and is not detected in large neurons. Taken together with previous observations that the DARPP-32-containing medium-sized neurons project heavily to all neostriatal targets, these data demonstrate that DARPP-32 is present in virtually all neostriatal output neurons. Thus, the DARPP-32 cascade represents a final common pathway through which convergent afferent fibers using a variety of neurotransmitter agents may modulate striatal outflow.
The suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) is a small structure considered to be the site of the major circadian pacemaker of the mammalian brain. Disturbances in human biological clock function may occur in several diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, sleep problems, and seasonal depression. Since basic knowledge of the anatomical connections of the human SCN is limited due to the lack of suitable neuroanatomical tracing methods, the understanding of physiological mechanisms of human SCN function has obviously been hampered. In the present study, the hypothalamic connections of the human SCN were revealed for the first time with a newly developed in vitro postmortem anterograde tracing method. The human SCN was found to be connected with nuclei in the hypothalamus that are involved in hormone secretion, cardiovascular regulation, and behavior activity. These human SCN projections appear to follow the same general patterns as those in the rodent brain. This homology may indicate an evolutionary conservation of the SCN projections from rodent to human. Through these connections, the human SCN may transmit its circadian information to regulate hormone secretion, body temperature, and behavioral functions as it does in animal species. In addition, the postmortem tracing technique may be a valuable tool that will contribute to our understanding of anatomical connections in the human brain, and may have other applications in the research on the physiology and pathology of the human brain.
The normal development of the brain requires finely coordinated events, many of which require iron. Consequently, iron must be available to the brain in a timely manner and in a bioavailable form. However, the brain also requires stringent mechanisms to protect itself from iron-induced oxidative damage. The protein that is best suited to making iron available but also adequately protecting the cell is the intracellular iron storage protein ferritin. Typically, ferritin is composed of 24 subunits of H and L chains, which are functionally distinct. This study was undertaken to determine the expression of ferritin subunits during normal development of the postnatal rat brain. There is a shift in ferritin-containing cell types during development from predominantly microglia at postnatal day 5 (PND 5) to predominantly oligodendrocytes by PND 30. At PND 5, microglia are found throughout gray and white matter areas of the brain, but only amoeboid microglia in discrete foci in the subcortical white matter are ferritin positive. At PND 15, some oligodendrocytes in the subcortical white matter express ferritin, but the majority of ferritin-containing cells within white matter are still microglia. By PND 30, the predominant ferritin-containing cell type within white matter are oligodendrocytes. Generally, the cellular distribution of both ferritin subunits were identical with one major exception; H-ferritin, but not L-ferritin, was present in neuronal nuclei in the cortex. These data suggest that microglia play a role in brain iron homeostasis during normal postnatal development and may influence myelination by competing with oligodendrocytes for iron.
Insulin-like growth factors (IGFs) exert trophic effects on several different cell types in the nervous system, including spinal motoneurons. After peripheral nerve injury, the increased expression of IGFs in the damaged nerve has been suggested to facilitate axonal regeneration. Here we have examined the expression pattern of mRNAs encoding IGF-1 and and -2, IGF binding proteins (IGFBPs) 1-6 in the rat spinal cord and peripheral nerve in three lesion models affecting lumbar motoneurons, i.e., sciatic nerve transection, ventral root avulsion, and a cut lesion in the ventral funiculus of the spinal cord. The expression was also studied in enriched Schwann cell and astrocyte cultures. The injured sciatic nerve expressed IGF-1 and IGF-2 as well as IGFBP-4 and IGFBP-5, whereas central nervous system (CNS) scar tissue expressed IGF-1, IGFBP-2, and IGFBP-5. IGFBP-6 mRNA was strongly upregulated in spinal motoneurons after all three types of lesions. IGFBP-6-like immunoreactivity was present in motoneuron cell bodies, dendrites in the ventral horn, and axons in the sciatic nerve. In line with the in vivo findings, cultured Schwann cells expressed IGF-1, IGF-2, IGFBP-4, and IGFBP-5 mRNAs, whereas cultured astrocytes expressed IGF-1, IGFBP-2, and IGFBP-5 mRNAs. These findings show that IGF-1 is available for lesioned motoneurons both after peripheral and central axonal lesions, whereas there are clear differences in the expression patterns for IGF-2 and some of the binding proteins in CNS and peripheral nervous system (PNS) scar tissue. The robust upregulation of IGFBP-6 mRNA in lesioned motoneurons suggests that this binding protein may be of special relevance for the severed cells.
Elevated levels of nerve growth factor (NGF) protein and NGF mRNA have been reported in the vessels of spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR: hypertensive, hyperactive) compared to Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats. Elevated NGF may be involved in the development of hypertension in SHRs. We examined vascular NGF mRNA and protein content and the regulation of NGF secretion by vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) from two inbred strains (WKHT: hypertensive; WKHA: hyperactive) derived from SHRs and WKYs. Our goal was to determine if receptor-mediated defects in NGF regulation play a role in increased secretion of VSMC NGF from hypertensive animals. Tissue NGF mRNA content was determined by competitive, quantitative RT-PCR. Tissue NGF and NGF content in cultured VSMC-conditioned medium was quantified using a two-site ELISA. Tail artery NGF mRNA was elevated in WKHTs compared to WKHAs. Tissue NGF protein was elevated in WKHT aorta, mesenteric, and tail artery compared to WKHAs. Pharmacologically induced increases in NGF output were blocked with inhibition of transcription or protein synthesis. Basal NGF secretion by WKHT VSMCs was significantly higher than WKHAs. The observed increases in VSMC NGF output in SHRs over WKYs in response to beta-adrenergic agents are not preserved in the WKHT:WKHA comparison. Protein kinase C-dependent increases in SHR VSMC NGF appear in both WKHTs and WKHAs. In contrast, elevated NGF levels due to disturbances in alpha-adrenergic, peptidergic, and purinergic control of NGF output are features common to both genetic models of hypertension (SHR and WKHT). These results suggest that the defect in smooth muscle NGF metabolism observed in SHRs cosegregates with a hypertensive rather than a hyperactive phenotype. Moreover, altered receptor-mediated regulation (alpha-adrenergic, peptidergic, and purinergic) of VSMC NGF production may contribute to elevated vascular tissue NGF, suggesting a mechanism leading to the high levels of NGF associated with hypertension in SHRs and WKHTs.
Trans-synaptic regulation of muscarinic, peptidergic, and purinergic responses after denervation has been reported previously in rat parotid acinar cells (McMillian, M. K., Soltoff, S. P., Cantley, L. C., Rudel, R., and Talamo, B. R. (1993) Br. J. Pharmacol. 108, 453-461). Characteristics of the ATP-mediated responses and the effects of parasympathetic denervation were further analyzed through assay of Ca2+ influx, using fluorescence ratio imaging methods, and by analysis of P2x receptor expression. ATP activates both a high affinity and a low affinity response with properties corresponding to the recently described P2x4 and the P2z (P2x7)-type purinoceptors, respectively. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analysis reveals mRNA for P2x4 as well as P2x7 subtypes but not P2x1, P2x2, P2x3, P2x5, or P2x6. P2x4 protein also is detected by Western blotting. Distribution of the two types of ATP receptor responses on individual cells was stochastic, with both high and low affinity responses on some cells, and only a single type of response on others. Sensitivity to P2x4-type activation also varied even among cells responsive to low concentrations of ATP. Parasympathetic denervation greatly enhanced responses, tripling the proportion of acinar cells with a P2x4-type response and increasing the fraction of highly sensitive cells by 7-fold. Moreover, P2x4 mRNA is significantly increased following parasympathetic denervation. These data indicate that sensitivity to ATP is modulated by neurotransmission at parasympathetic synapses, at least in part through increased expression of P2x4 mRNA, and suggest that similar regulation may occur at other sites in the nervous system where P2x4 receptors are widely expressed.
Following intrahippocampal (hilar) kainic acid (KA) lesions in rats, NMDAR2A/B receptor proteins are upregulated significantly in the inner molecular layer (IML) of the dentate gyrus by post-injection day 5. By contrast, the aberrant mossy fibers which reinnervate the IML remained in the subgranular zone before sprouting and synapsing in the IML, which occurs at approximately post-KA day 17. For 40 days thereafter, this mossy fiber ingrowth progressed, while the increased NMDAR2A/B (receptors) immunoreactivity remained at the same densities. These results suggest that new NMDAR2A/B proteins in granule cell dendrites are limited to the IML, which is the eventual site for MF hyperinnervation, neosynaptogenesis, and recurrent synaptic hyperexcitability.
Postsynaptic receptor clustering is thought to be of critical importance in central neurotransmission. Recent work suggests that the formation and size of such clusters may depend on synaptic activity, although that dependence appears to vary according to the type of receptor that mediates the postsynaptic response.
In the vertebrate spinal cord, the activation of GABA(gamma-amino-butyric acid)-releasing interneurons that synapse with intraspinal terminals of sensory fibres leading into the central nervous system (afferent fibres) produces primary afferent depolarization and presynaptic inhibition. It is not known to what extent these presynaptic mechanisms allow a selective control of information transmitted through specific sets of intraspinal branches of individual afferents. Here we study the local nature of the presynaptic control by measuring primary afferent depolarization simultaneously in two intraspinal collaterals of the same muscle spindle afferent. One of these collaterals ends at the L6-L7 segmental level in the intermediate nucleus, and the other ascends to segment L3 within Clarke's column, the site of origin of spinocerebellar neurons. Our results indicate that there are central mechanisms that are able to affect independently the synaptic effectiveness of segmental and ascending collaterals of individual muscle spindle afferents. Focal control of presynaptic inhibition thus allows the intraspinal branches of afferent fibres to function as a dynamic assembly that can be fractionated to convey information to selected neuronal targets. This may be a mechanism by which different spinal postsynaptic targets that are coupled by sensory input from a common source could be uncoupled.

Intracerebroventricular administration of Orphanin FQ (5.5, 55 or 550 pmol) caused a dose-related increase in prolactin secretion in both male and female rats and stimulated GH secretion in males. The magnitude of the prolactin secretory response was greater in females than in males. These effects of OFQ on prolactin and growth hormone release are the same as the stimulatory effects of the endogenous opioid peptides.
Following pulse labeling with [3H]arachidonic acid ([3H]AA), its incorporation pattern in brain reflects regional changes in neurotransmitter signal transduction using phospholipase A2, that is, functional activity. In a rat model of Parkinson's disease, unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesion in the substantia nigra, [3H]AA acid incorporation from blood was increased in cerebral cortex, caudate putamen, globus pallidus, entopeduncular nucleus, subthalamic nucleus and substantia nigra pars reticulata ipsilateral to the lesion. This increased [3H]AA incorporation likely reflects disinhibition of basal ganglia and cortical circuits secondary to absent inhibitory nigrostriatal dopaminergic input.
We recently reported that cortical spreading depression (CSD), used to precondition rat brain, reduced cortical infarction volume resulting from focal cerebral ischemia by middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) 3 days later. The mechanisms underlying this protective effect by CSD remains to be explored. In this study, we confirm that CSD is neuroprotective when KCl is applied epidurally rather than intracortically. Neocortical infarct volume was 101.3+/-48.5 mm3 and 45.3+/-44.1 mm3 in the sham and CSD group, respectively (p&lt;0.05). Using image analysis, we identified the cortical region spared from infarction by the prior CSD. We then determined the distribution of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) mRNA and the time course of their expression in groups of animals treated with CSD and their controls. We also examined the response of astrocytes to CSD using glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) as a marker. In situ hybridization (done at 0, 3, 12, 24, 72 or 168 h after CSD) showed significant elevation of BDNF mRNA in the cortex immediately after CSD in a distribution surrounding the spared cortex, while bFGF mRNA rose 12 h after CSD and appeared more within the core of the ischemic region. Immunohistochemistry (done at 1, 3 or 7 days after CSD) demonstrated GFAP in the neocortex, with a peak at 3 days after CSD. Heat shock protein 72 (HSP72) expression was not affected by CSD. We concluded that upregulation of trophic factors and activation of glial cells may contribute to the neuroprotection induced by CSD.
To investigate the role of the neurofilament heavy (NF-H) subunit in neuronal function, we generated mice bearing a targeted disruption of the gene coding for the NF-H subunit. Surprisingly, the lack of NF-H subunits had little effect on axonal calibers and electron microscopy revealed no significant changes in the number and packing density of neurofilaments made up of only the neurofilament light (NF-L) and neurofilament medium (NF-M) subunits. However, our analysis of NF-H knockout mice revealed an approximately 2.4-fold increase of microtubule density in their large ventral root axons. This finding was further corroborated by a corresponding increase in the ratio of assembled tubulin to NF-L protein in insoluble cytoskeletal preparations from the sciatic nerve. Axonal transport studies carried out by the injection of [35S]methionine into spinal cord revealed an increased transport velocity of newly synthesized NF-L and NF-M proteins in motor axons of NF-H knockout mice. When treated with beta,beta'-iminodipropionitrile (IDPN), a neurotoxin that segregates microtubules and retards neurofilament transport, mice heterozygous or homozygous for the NF-H null mutation did not develop neurofilamentous swellings in motor neurons, unlike normal mouse littermates. These results indicate that the NF-H subunit is a key mediator of IDPN-induced axonopathy.
To enhance the current therapeutic benefit of dopamine (DA) neuron grafts in Parkinson's disease, strategies must be developed that increase both DA neuron survival and fiber outgrowth into the denervated striatum. Previous work in our laboratory has demonstrated that dopaminergic neurons grow to greater size when co-grafted with striatal cell suspensions and display extensive tyrosine hydroxylase-positive (TH+) projections, but no conclusion could be reached concerning enhancement of survival of grafted DA neurons. The aim of the present study was to characterize further the potential trophic effects of striatal co-grafts on grafted mesencephalic DA neuron survival. Unilaterally lesioned male Fischer 344 rats were grafted with either a suspension of mesencephalic cells or with both mesencephalic and striatal cell suspensions. Co-grafts were either mixed together or placed separately into the striatum. Lesioned rats receiving no graft served as controls. Rotational behavior was assessed following amphetamine challenge at 2 weeks prior to grafting and at 4 and 8 weeks following grafting. Only rats receiving co-grafts of nigral and striatal suspensions separated by a distance of 1 mm showed significant behavioral recovery from baseline rotational asymmetry. Both mixed and separate striatal co-grafts were associated with a doubling of DA neuron survival compared with solo mesencephalic grafts. In the mixed co-graft experiment, DA neurite branching appeared enhanced and TH-rich patches were observed, whereas with co-grafts that were separated, TH+ innervation of the intervening host striatum was increased significantly. These results provide the first evidence suggesting that nigral-striatal co-grafts, particularly those placed separately and in proximity to each other, increase both DA neuron survival and neurite extension from the mesencephalic component of the grafts.
We have previously reported that the insulin-responsive glucose transporter GLUT4 is strongly expressed by discrete areas of the rat brain (Leloup et al. [1996] Molec. Brain Res. 38:45-53). In the present study, a sensitive immunocytochemical technique has been used to analyze extensively the anatomical and ultrastructural localizations of GLUT4 in the rat central nervous system in order to gain insight into the physiological role of this transporter. We confirm that GLUT4 is expressed by numerous neurons of the brain and spinal cord, whereas glial cells are more scarcely labeled. In both light and electron microscopy, we observe that the immunoreactivity for GLUT4 is localized mainly in the somatodendritic portion of neurons, where some cisterns of rough endoplasmic reticulum, ribosomal rosettes, certain Golgi saccules, and some intracytoplasmic vesicles are labeled. In contrast, axons and nerve terminals are only occasionally immunostained in certain brain regions such as the neocortex and the ventricular surfaces for example. The GLUT4-immunoreactive structures appear concentrated and most prominently immunostained in motor areas, such as the sensorimotor cortex, most basal ganglia and related nuclei, the cerebellum and deep cerebellar nuclei, a number of reticular fields, motor nuclei of cranial nerves, and motor neurons of the ventral horn of the spinal cord. The labeled regions, which also include some sensory nuclei, are often those in which Vissing et al. ([1996] J. Cerebral Blood Flow Metab. 16:729-736) have shown that exercise stimulates local cerebral glucose utilization, so that GLUT4 might be involved in this effect. On the other hand, the fact that the anatomical localizations of GLUT4 reported here generally agree with the distribution of insulin- or insulin-receptor- related receptors is important since it indicates that the translocation of GLUT4 might also be regulated by insulin in the central nervous system.
We examined axon-target interactions in cocultures of embryonic rat trigeminal, dorsal root, nodose, superior cervical ganglia or retina with a variety of native or foreign peripheral targets such as the whisker pad, forepaw, and heart explants. Axon growth into these peripheral target tissues was analyzed by the use of lipophilic tracer DiI. Embryonic day 15 dorsal root and trigeminal axons grew into isochronic normal and foreign cutaneous targets. Both axon populations avoided the same age heart tissue, but grew profusely into younger (embryonic day 13) or older (postnatal) heart explants. In contrast, embryonic day 15 superior cervical or nodose ganglion axons grew heavily into the same age heart and forepaw explants and to a lesser extent into the whisker pad explants. Embryonic day 15 retinal axons grew into all three peripheral targets used in this study. Primary sensory and sympathetic axons, but not retinal axons, formed target-specific patterns in the whisker pad and forepaw explants. DiI-labeling and immunostaining of primary sensory neurons in coculture revealed that these neurons retain their bipolar characteristics, and express class-specific markers such as parvalbumin, calcitonin gene-related peptide and TrkA receptors. In the whisker pad explants, axons positive for all three markers were seen to form patterns around the follicles. Our results indicate that developing peripheral targets can attract and support axon growth from a variety of sources. Whereas neurotrophins play a major role in attracting and supporting survival of subpopulations of sensory neurons, other substrate-bound or locally released molecules must regulate sensory neurite growth into specific peripheral and central targets.
The effect of the GTP-analogue guanylyl 5'-imidodiphosphate (Gpp[NH]p) on [3H]forskolin binding was studied in rat brain using autoradiography. In the striatum, 100 microM Gpp[NH]p produced a 40% increase in binding, whereas a decrease of about 30% was observed with low Gpp[NH]p concentrations (0.1-1 microM). In the molecular layer of the cerebellum all concentrations of Gpp[NH]p decreased [3H]forskolin binding. The decrease in binding disappeared in both striatum and the molecular layer of cerebellum in sections pretreated with 100 microM N-ethylmaleimide (NEM) for 10 min. NEM pretreatment did not significantly affect the stimulation of [3H]forskolin binding by micromolar concentrations of Gpp[NH]p in the striatum, but reversed the decrease observed in the molecular layer of the cerebellum, to an increase. Based on these data we suggest that the effects of the GTP-analogue Gpp[NH]p on [3H]forskolin binding may involve both Gs and Gi, where a stimulation produces an increase and decrease in binding respectively. The regional effects of Gpp[NH]p may reflect differences in the responsiveness of adenylyl cyclase to Gs and Gi-mediated effects.
We investigated cortical areas involved in the control of self-determined finger movements. In a tapping task, subjects tapped with different movement frequencies in two different movement conditions (predetermined vs self-determined). fMRI provided evidence for the involvement of the horizontal and ascending parts of the intraparietal sulcus (IPS), the left superior frontal gyrus and the posterior cingulate gyrus in the control of self-determined finger movements. Higher movement frequency increased the extent of activated area only in the horizontal part of IPS. The results suggest a major role of the IPS in controlling sequences of finger movements. This area probably serves as a region for integration of motor, sensory and sensorimotor feedback information used for movement control.
The N1 component of the auditory brain evoked potential was used as a direct electrophysiological index, to study how the perception of pitch for complex periodic tones can be influenced by the phase of the harmonics that make up a sound, according to their ranks. Results showed that in the low pitch and/or high spectra region, N1 latency was modified by phase, whereas it was not in the high pitch and low spectra region. These data help bring evidence towards a dual mechanism for pitch perception, and demonstrate that these processes take place within 110 ms following stimulus onset. Results are compatible with a model based on the resolvability of components and on the bandwidth of auditory filters.
The present study reports the neuroprotective efficacy of the 5-HT1A receptor agonists 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) and ipsapirone against in vivo excitotoxic neuronal injury. Excitotoxic cell death was induced by injections of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) in the rat magnocellular nucleus basalis. The neurodegenerative effects were quantified by image analysis of the axonal density of the nucleus basalis projection to the somatosensory cortex visualized with acetylcholinesterase histochemistry. Pretreatment with 8-OH-DPAT--but not ipsapirone--1 h prior to NMDA infusion showed significant preservation of cortical cholinergic innervation in all doses tested. Furthermore, 8-OH-DPAT exhibited sustained efficacy under homeothermic conditions in which the body temperature was maintained at 36.8 +/- 0.1 degrees C. These data indicate that selective 5-HT1A receptor activation by 8-OH-DPAT protects against NMDA-induced excitotoxic neuronal damage, probably as a result of 5-HT1A receptor-mediated neuronal hyperpolarization.
The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) subtype of glutamate receptor plays important roles in neuronal development, plasticity, and cell death. NMDA receptor subunit 1 (NR1) is an essential subunit of the NMDA receptor and is developmentally expressed in postnatal neurons of the central nervous system. Here we identify on the NR1 promoter a binding site for myocyte enhancer factor 2C (MEF2C), a developmentally expressed neuron/muscle transcription factor found in cerebrocortical neurons, and study its regulation of the NR1 gene. Co-expression of MEF2C and Sp1 cDNAs in primary neurons or cell lines synergistically activates the NR1 promoter. Disruption of the MEF2 site or the MEF2C DNA binding domain moderately reduces this synergism. Mutation of the Sp1 sites or the activation domains of Sp1 protein strongly reduces the synergism. Results of yeast two-hybrid and co-immunoprecipitation experiments reveal a physical interaction between MEF2C and Sp1 proteins. The MEF2C DNA binding domain is sufficient for this interaction. Dominant-negative MEF2C interferes with expression of NR1 mRNA in neuronally differentiated P19 cells. Growth factors, including epidermal growth factor and basic fibroblast growth factor, can up-regulate NR1 promoter activity in stably transfected PC12 cells, even in the absence of the MEF2 site, but the Sp1 sites are necessary for this growth factor regulation, suggesting that Sp1 sites may mediate these effects.
It is believed that specific patterns of changes in the cytosolic-free calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) are used to control cellular processes such as gene transcription, cell proliferation, differentiation, and secretion. We recently showed that the Ca2+ oscillations in the neuroendocrine melanotrope cells of Xenopus laevis are built up by a number of discrete Ca2+ rises, the Ca2+ steps. The origin of the Ca2+ steps and their role in the generation of long-lasting Ca2+ patterns were unclear. By simultaneous, noninvasive measuring of melanotrope plasma membrane electrical activity and the [Ca2+]i, we show that numbers, amplitude, and frequency of Ca2+ steps are variable among individual oscillations and are determined by the firing pattern and shape of the action currents. The general Na+ channel blocker tetrodotoxin had no effect on either action currents or the [Ca2+]i. Under Na+-free conditions, a depolarizing pulse of 20 mM K+ induced repetitive action currents and stepwise increases in the [Ca2+]i. The Ca2+ channel blocker CoCl2 eliminated action currents and stepwise increases in the [Ca2+]i in both the absence and presence of high K+. We furthermore demonstrate that the speed of Ca2+ removal from the cytoplasm depends on the [Ca2+]i, also between Ca2+ steps during the rising phase of an oscillation. It is concluded that Ca2+ channels, and not Na+ channels, are essential for the generation of specific step patterns and, furthermore, that the frequency and shape of Ca2+ action currents in combination with the Ca2+ removal rate determine the oscillatory pattern.
Molecular cloning of the responsible gene on chromosome 6q25.2-27 for autosomal recessive juvenile parkinsonism (AR-JP) identified a novel protein of unknown function, named parkin. In patients with AR-JP, deletions most commonly involve exons 3-5 in the parkin gene. For mutation screening we tried to analyze the parkin transcript amplified by RT-PCR. Based on the assumption that illegitimate transcription of the parkin gene may occur in every cell type, we successfully amplified the parkin message from human peripheral leukocytes using RT-PCR. The parkin transcript in leukocytes was smaller in size than the full-length transcript in the brain. DNA sequencing determined that exons 3-5 were spliced out in the normal human leukocyte transcript. Our results demonstrate that alternative splicing produces distinct parkin transcripts in different tissues. Moreover, physiological splicing of deletion-prone exons may provide an important clue to understanding the pathogenesis of AR-JP.

Corticobasal degeneration (CBD) and progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) are characterized by their unique clinical features and neuronal pathology. Although astrocytic plaques and tufts of abnormal fibers have been suggested to be specific histopathologic markers, recent studies have revealed significant clinicopathologic overlap between CBD and PSP. Based on the distinctive camera lucida profile of astrocytic inclusions on Gallyas-Braak silver staining, we found that astrocytic plaques and tufts of abnormal fibers did not coexist in the same patient among 30 cases of clinically diagnosed CBD, PSP and atypical Parkinson's disease. Using Tau immunohistochemistry it was difficult to verify the absence of tufts of abnormal fibers. A morphometric analysis revealed that the two groups classified by the presence or absence of astrocytic plaques and tufts of abnormal fibers exhibited significant differences in the density of ballooned neurons and neurofibrillary tangles and degeneration of the subcortical nuclei. Assessment using the NINDS neuropathologic criteria revealed that the cases with astrocytic plaques and tufts of abnormal fibers closely correspond to CBD and typical PSP, respectively. In addition, the cases lacking either of these two astrocytic inclusions had atypical PSP according to the NINDS criteria, and were associated with novel tau-positive astrocytes (spiny astrocytes). We thus conclude that astrocytic plaques and tufts of abnormal fibers are highly characteristic structures for CBD and typical PSP, respectively. We emphasize the importance of strict differentiation between different astrocytic inclusions not only for diagnosis, but also for further studies for elucidation of their role in the disease mechanisms of CBD and PSP.
Once weekly and three times weekly schedules of ECT, each at two stimulus dose levels (high and low), were compared for therapeutic efficacy in melancholia. Three times weekly ECTs were more efficacious than once weekly ECTs. A high stimulus dose did not enhance the efficacy of once weekly ECTs. However, the patients who remitted did so over a comparable time-course regardless of the ECT schedule. Although three times weekly ECTs are superior, 55% of patients responded to once weekly ECTs. There is therefore a need for research to identify the patients for whom once weekly ECT may be sufficient.
The main objectives of this study were (i) to find out to what extent postnatal depression (PND) in mothers was recognized at Well Baby Clinics (WBCs) in Stockholm, (ii) to study the prevalence of PND using the Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale (EPDS), (iii) to test the positive predictive value of the EPDS against an interview-based Research Diagnostic Criteria (RDC) diagnosis of depression and (iv) to identify sociodemographic risk factors for PND. Case-records of 1128 infants were reviewed at WBCs to obtain a baseline rate of PND. Two per cent of the mothers were identified in the routine service of the WBCs as being depressed during the first 3 months postpartum. During a project year, 309 Swedish-speaking mothers completed a set of EPDS 3 months postpartum. In total, 14.5% of the women scored &gt; 12 on the EPDS and 67% of these women had a depression according to RDC. At least 8.4% of the mothers investigated had a clinical depression. A positive link was found between being single with more than one child and having PND. In conclusion, very few women with PND are identified in routine WBC care in Sweden. The use of the EPDS as a screening measure at the WBC is recommended. The scale is well accepted both by the mothers and by the nurses, and its use significantly increases the number of identified cases of PND.
A case of traumatic extracranial vertebral arterial dissection leading to vertebrobasilar thrombosis and respiratory compromise requiring mechanical ventilation was managed with intraarterial thrombolysis and stenting of the vertebral intimal dissection. In contrast to similar, previously reported cases, this critically ill patient made a full recovery, returning to his job as a secondary school teacher.
Short-Sleep (SS) and Long-Sleep (LS) mice differ in initial sensitivity to ethanol. Ethanol acts as an antagonist at N-methyl D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs). Therefore, we tested whether SS and LS mice also differ in initial sensitivity to NMDAR antagonists. Systemic injection (intraperitoneal) of either the noncompetitive NMDAR antagonist MK-801 (dizocilpine) or the competitive NMDAR antagonist 2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl-propyl-1-phosphonic acid (CPP) produced similar results. At lower drug doses, SS mice showed greater locomotor activation than LS mice; and at higher doses, SS mice continued to be activated whereas LS mice became sedated. Brain levels of [3H]MK-801 were 40% higher in SS, compared with LS, mice. However, blood levels of [3H]MK-801 and [3H]CPP and brain levels of [3H]CPP were similar in the two lines. NMDARs were measured using quantitative autoradiographic analysis of in vitro [3H]MK-801 binding to SS and LS mouse brains. Significantly higher (20 to 30%) receptor densities were observed in the hippocampus and cerebral cortex of SS mice. Our results support the hypothesis that SS and LS mice differ in initial sensitivity to NMDAR antagonists and suggest that the line differences in the dose-response relationships for MK-801- and CPP-induced locomotor activity are qualitatively similar to those reported for ethanol. Differences in pharmacokinetics and number of NMDARs may contribute to, but are unlikely to entirely account for, the differential behavioral responsiveness of SS and LS mice to MK-801 and CPP.
Previous research has suggested that rats tested at 28 to 30 days of age show a marked subsensitivity to the sedative effects of ethanol. In the present study, rats of different ages were tested for aerial righting following acute ethanol (3 g/kg) treatment. These results were compared with the effects of the atypical benzodiazepine zolpidem (3 and 5 mg/kg) and pentobarbital (10 and 15 mg/kg). Animals tested at 25, 28, or 35 days of age were significantly less impaired by ethanol than preweanling rats (age 20 days) or older rats (age 65 to 75 days), whereas animals tested at 25 or 28 days of age were less impaired by the higher dose of zolpidem. With pentobarbital, the most distinct age-related trend was greater impairment in 20-day-old rats. Because ethanol may be active at the same type I GABA(A) receptor site selectively labeled by [3H]zolpidem, levels of [3H]zolpidem binding were determined for rats of different ages. Although some brain regions showed progressive increases in binding of [3H]zolpidem across development, other regions demonstrated increased binding from day 12 or 17 to day 20, then a plateau of binding levels across days 20, 25, and 28, with further increases occurring by day 36 or day 60. This pattern was observed in the cingulate cortex, medial septal nucleus, globus pallidus, inferior colliculus, red nucleus, and cerebellum. Overall, the results indicate that the period of subsensitivity to the sedative effects of ethanol is coincident with a change in the developmental pattern of GABA(A) receptor sites targeted by [3H]zolpidem.
Little is known about the utility of collateral reports in substantiating self-report for individuals assessed in nonalcoholism treatment contexts. This study examined the concordance of 581 pairs of medical patient and collateral responses to a commonly used alcohol screening instrument, the CAGE Questions, as well as to reports of the patient's drinking consequences and alcohol consumption. Results demonstrated that patient/collateral concordance was marginal, but acceptable, on CAGE cut-off scores and, that similar to reports from alcoholism treatment settings, patients generally reported more drinking consequences than collaterals. Patient and collateral reports of the patient's alcohol consumption did not differ significantly. This pattern of patient and collateral reporting of alcohol consequences and consumption was found for both men and women, as well as for patients with a DSM-III-R diagnosis of alcohol dependence. The findings support the validity of patient self-report on alcoholism screening measures in medical settings. Furthermore, results demonstrated that the addition of collateral reports to information directly obtained from patients only modestly improved the identification of alcohol dependence. The overall findings indicate that alcohol screening can be done effectively and efficiently in medical settings.
Alcohol consumption in excess affects the brain negatively, both immediately and in the long-term. Brain lesions in alcohol abusers are multiple and are multifactorial in origin. The toxic effect of ethanol, withdrawal from alcohol, nutritional deficits, and electrolyte disturbances, as well as liver damage, may contribute to the ethiopathogenesis of brain injury. The susceptibility of the brain to the negative effects of alcohol may be influenced by sex and age. The role of genetic factors and interactions of several licit and illicit drugs with alcohol needs further investigation.
Maternal obesity and genetic background can affect the development of obesity and diabetes in offspring. Here we used selected strains of rats resistant (DR) vs. susceptible to development of diet-induced obesity (DIO) on high-energy (HE) diets to assess this issue. DR and DIO dams were fed either Chow or HE diet for 4 wk. DIO HE diet-fed dams and additional DR rats fed a palatable liquid diet (Ensure) became more obese and hyperinsulinemic than the other groups. During lactation, all dams were fed their respective diets, and offspring were fed Chow from weaning to 16 wk of age. All offspring of DIO dams gained more weight and had heavier retroperitoneal fat pads and higher leptin levels than DR progeny, but offspring of the more obese DIO HE dams had heavier fat pads and higher glucose levels than DIO Chow offspring. After 4 wk on HE diet, all DIO offspring gained more weight and had heavier total adipose depots and higher insulin and leptin levels than DR offspring. Offspring of DIO HE dams also gained more weight and had heavier fat depots and higher leptin levels than DIO Chow offspring. Therefore maternal obesity and hyperinsulinemia were associated with increased obesity in those offspring already genetically predisposed to become obese.
Elevated bladder smooth muscle cell (BSMC) nerve growth factor (NGF) secretion and related neuroplasticity are associated with hyperactive voiding in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs: hypertensive, behaviorally hyperactive), compared with control Wistar-Kyotos (WKYs). We used two inbred strains (WKHT: hypertensive; WKHA: hyperactive) to further investigate this phenomenon. WKHA BSMCs secreted higher basal levels of NGF than WKHT BSMCs. Antagonists did inhibit NGF output in WKHA but not WKHT cultures. Thus augmented basal secretion of NGF cosegregates with a hyperactive phenotype, whereas a lack of regulatory inhibition of NGF output cosegregates with a hypertensive phenotype. Bladder norepinephrine content paralleled NGF content, with WKHTs &gt; SHRs &gt; WKHAs &gt; WKYs, providing evidence that a lack of inhibition is the greatest contributor to elevated bladder NGF and noradrenergic innervation. Protein kinase C (PKC) agonists affected NGF production differentially depending on strain, suggesting that altered PKC signaling may contribute to strain differences in NGF secretion. Finally, 6-h voiding frequency differed between the strains, with SHRs &gt; WKHTs = WKHAs &gt; WKYs. Thus aspects of both the hypertensive and hyperactive phenotypes may be associated with elevated SHR bladder NGF and hyperactive voiding.
Selye defined stress as the nonspecific response of the body to any demand. Stressors elicit both pituitary-adrenocortical and sympathoadrenomedullary responses. One can test Selye's concept by comparing magnitudes of responses at different stress intensities and assuming that the magnitudes vary with stress intensity, with the prediction that, at different stress intensities, ratios of increments neuroendocrine responses should be the same. We measured arterial plasma ACTH, norepinephrine, and epinephrine in conscious rats after hemorrhage, intravenous insulin, subctaneous formaldehyde solution, cold, or immobilization. Relative to ACTH increments, cold evoked large norepinephrine responses, insulin large epinephrine responses, and hemorrhage small norepinephrine and epinephrine responses, whereas immobilization elicited large increases in levels of all three compounds. The ACTH response to 25% hemorrhage exceeded five times that to 10%, and the epinephrine response to 25% hemorrhage was two times that to 10%. The ACTH response to 4% formaldehyde solution was two times that to 1%, and the epinephrine response to 4% formaldehyde solution exceeded four times that to 1%. These results are inconsistent with Selye's doctrine of nonspecificity and the existence of a unitary &quot;stress syndrome,&quot; and they are more consistent with the concept that each stressor has its own central neurochemical and peripheral neuroendocrine &quot;signature.&quot;
Sleep regulation processes have been hypothesized to be involved in function and timing of arousal episodes in hibernating ground squirrels. We investigated the importance of sleep regulation during arousal episodes by sleep deprivation experiments. After sleep deprivation of 4, 12, and 24 h, starting 4 h after onset of euthermy, a duration-dependent enhancement of slow-wave activity (SWA) of the cortical electroencephalogram during non-rapid eye movement sleep was found, as expected for normal sleep regulation. When sleep deprivation was applied during the initial phase of the arousal episode, in which effects of prior torpor were present in undisturbed recordings, no subsequent recurrence of SWA was found. In addition, prior torpor induced a reduction in the spectral activity of the sigma frequency range (7-14 Hz), which was not observed after sleep deprivation. The effects of torpor and sleep deprivation on subsequent SWA appear qualitatively different. This indicates that effects of deep torpor on sleep are dissimilar to normal sleep regulation.
Leptin efficacy was compared in obese and lean female CD-1 mice. Body weights in these 10- to 12-mo-old mice ranged from 29.7 to 62.0 g, and leptin levels correlated with body weight. Mice from the lean and obese ends of the weight distribution were treated with daily peripheral leptin injections (1-100 mg/kg) for a 33-day period. The half-maximal effective doses for weight loss and fat reduction were shifted 0.5-0.7 log to the right for obese mice. Leptin was less efficacious at low doses (1-3 mg/kg) in obese mice but equal to or more efficacious in obese than lean mice at high doses (30-100 mg/kg). Leptin's initial effects on weight loss could be explained by appetite suppression in both groups, but its effects on fat reduction were greater in leptin-treated than pair-fed mice, particularly in the lean group. Leptin also prevented the elevations in serum corticosterone and ketones found in pair-fed lean mice. These data allow a quantitative comparison of leptin sensitivity in obese vs. lean CD-1 mice and suggest that in mice where obesity is a function of outbreeding and age, leptin sensitivity is moderately reduced. Furthermore, although appetite suppression has a clear role in leptin's effects on body weight, leptin may also have specific effects on lipid metabolism and mobilization that are different from the metabolic compensations that normally occur with food deprivation.
Activity was recorded from postganglionic sympathetic neurons (PSNs) innervating either the caudal ventral artery (CVA) or a lateral vein (LV) of the tail circulation of anesthetized rats. The study sought to determine whether sympathetic activity directed at the CVA and LV was influenced by cardiovascular mechanoreceptor afferents and whether this effect was differential. Cardiac rhythmicity was not a robust component of either CVA PSN activity or LV PSN activity. Stimulation of an aortic nerve with short trains was followed by a decreased probability of discharge in both CVA and LV PSNs that was followed by a series of peaks that showed a constant periodicity that was not significantly different from that revealed by autocorrelogram analysis over the same data set. The latter dominant periodicity is referred to in this and related previous publications as the T rhythm. Furthermore, blood volume expansion and long-train aortic nerve stimulation produced a significant decrease in the frequency of the T rhythm. It is concluded that the CVA and LV sympathetic activity can be influenced by inputs from cardiovascular mechanoreceptors and that this effect is mediated in part by a modulation of the T rhythm.
The roles of mast cells and extrinsic and vagal neural pathways in the anaphylaxis-induced alterations in motility observed at sites remote from antigen exposure were explored. Rats were sensitized to egg albumin (EA) and prepared with 1) electrodes to monitor intestinal myoelectric activity, 2) an isolated intestinal loop, and 3) either intact vagal innervation or a subdiaphragmatic vagotomy. Fasting myoelectric activity was recorded before and after challenge of the jejunum in continuity or the isolated loop with EA or BSA. Intestinal segments and the brain stems were processed for mast cell identification (intestine) or Fos immunoreactivity (brain stem). EA but not BSA challenge of the jejunum or the isolated loop induced altered motility at both sites and diarrhea. Granulated mast cells were significantly reduced at the site local to but not remote from challenge. Vagotomy did not inhibit antigen-induced alterations in motility or diarrhea. The number of Fos-immunoreactive nuclei in vagal sensory or motor nuclei was not significantly altered by vagotomy. Thus antigen challenge of sensitized animals causes mast cell degranulation only at the site of direct challenge but alters motility at sites local and remote from challenge. The remote response requires intact extrinsic but not necessarily vagal neural pathways.
To evaluate the response of vasomotor sympathetic nerve activity to lower body positive pressure (LBPP), muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) was microneurographically recorded from the tibial nerve in 10 healthy young men, along with hemodynamic variables and echocardiogram, during exposure to incremental LBPP at 10, 20, and 30 mmHg in the supine position. MSNA was suppressed to a similar extent (27%) at 10- and 20-mmHg LBPP. However, at 30-mmHg LBPP, MSNA tended to increase but was still nearly at the control value. Mean arterial pressure was elevated (11%), total peripheral resistance markedly increased (36%), and stroke volume and cardiac output tended to decrease at 30-mmHg LBPP. Heart rate remained unchanged throughout the procedures. Left atrial dimension significantly increased during 10- and 30-mmHg LBPP, indicating an increased cardiac filling. These results suggest that the inhibitory effect of the cardiopulmonary baroreflex on MSNA at 10- and 20-mmHg LBPP could be counteracted by the sympathoexcitatory effect of the intramuscular pressure-sensitive mechanoreflex at 30-mmHg LBPP. However, the increment of total peripheral resistance at 30-mmHg LBPP may not depend exclusively on this small enhancement of MSNA.

The nervous systems of invertebrates and vertebrates consist of neuronal networks of varying complexity, and the elucidation of the organization of these networks is essential if we are to understand neural function. Up until the mid-19th Century gross dissection was the primary tool available to scientists to study the nervous system. The development of neurohistological techniques, electrical stimulation, and observation of neural function in humans and animals following injury added rapidly to our understanding of the nervous system during the following century. Over the last 3 decades investigators seeking to unravel the complexities of neural circuits have made use of analytical methods based upon the biological properties of neurons, including orthograde and retrograde axonal transport of tracer substances, the expression of particular genes and gene products that can be assessed with immunocytochemical or in situ methods, and the imaging of the utilization of oxygen or glucose by active populations of neurons. Advances in neuroscience have led to an enormous expansion in our knowledge of normal neural functioning and how that function is altered by injury or disease. Modern studies of neuronal organization have been at the center of our increased understanding of how the brain works.
Stimulation of the hypogastric nerve (HGN) often evokes bilateral responses in some pelvic organs. Retrograde labeling studies indicate that axons of postganglionic neurons often cross to the opposite side. However, there is little information available as to whether preganglionic fibers in the HGN have a contralateral projection to pelvic ganglia. A retrograde tracer was injected into the left major pelvic ganglion (MPG) in rats receiving various lesions of preganglionic nerves (HGN and pelvic nerve, PN). The lumbar spinal cord was then examined for location and number of dye-filled neurons. In a second approach, the incidence of synaptophysin immunoreactivity (SN-IR) perineuronal profiles (baskets) was examined in the MPG and in the accessory pelvic ganglia (APG) after nerve lesions. Labeled neuronal profiles were found in spinal cord nuclei (Lumbar1-2) after dye injection of the MPG in animals with an intact contralateral HGN. Cutting both HGNs virtually eliminated dye labeling in the lumbar cord, as did severing commissural branches (CB) between pelvic ganglia (leaving the contralateral HGN intact). Some SN-IR baskets were found in the left APG when only the contralateral HGN was intact, but baskets were rare when all four preganglionic nerves were cut. It could not be determined whether the HGN projects to the contralateral MPG, since SN-IR baskets were numerous in the MPG even when all four nerves were cut. This study has shown that some preganglionic fibers in the HGN synapse on neurons in contralateral pelvic ganglia. Both the APG and MPG receive contralateral innervation, but it is likely that neurons in the APG are the primary target of this input. Thus, in addition to crossing postganglionic fibers, a portion of the bilateral control of pelvic tissues is accomplished by preganglionic fibers which target autonomic neurons in contralateral ganglia.
The recent discovery of forepaw preferences (handedness) in toad species has provided some insight into the evolution of brain lateralization. We tested the prediction that, as in higher vertebrates, visual lateralization and other motor preferences (footedness) also exists in toad species. During feeding periods, South American cane toads, Bufo marinus, showed a population bias to strike with the tongue at other toads occupying their left visual field. This is the first demonstration of lateralized visual behaviour in an amphibian species. Tongue striking at an individual's eyes or head may sometimes delay its approach to prey already seen by the attacker, or may dislodge prey from its mouth. In addition, we report hindlimb preferences (footedness) for contact righting in three species of toad (B. marinus, the European green toad, B. viridis, and the European common toad, B. bufo). After being fully overturned on to their back on a horizontal surface, toads initiated and completed righting using the hindlimbs and with only perfunctory use of the forepaws. Together, the findings of visual lateralization and footedness demonstrate that in toads, as in higher vertebrates, behavioural lateralization is not restricted to handedness. The hypothesis that lateralized brain functions in birds and mammals might have arisen from a common lateralized ancestor is therefore supported. Copyright 1998 The Association for the Study of Animal Behaviour.
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is an inflammatory disease in which up to two thirds of the patients present neurological symptoms. The diagnosis of the disease is based on clinical findings and the presence of autoantibodies, and the pathogenesis is unclear. The purpose of this study was to determine if the pathogenesis was partly mediated via nitric oxide (NO) formation. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples from 15 patients with cerebral SLE were analyzed for the NO metabolites nitrite and nitrate using capillary electrophoresis. The severity of neurological symptoms was scored by dividing the patients into two groups with either mild or moderate/severe CNS involvement. All patients with cerebral SLE showed increased levels of NO metabolites. In CSF, there was a relationship between signs of NO production and clinical results showing that increased levels of nitrite and nitrate were associated with more severe neurological symptoms. These findings may shed new light on the pathogenesis of cerebral SLE, and analysis of nitrate and nitrate may prove to be of value in monitoring the activity of the disease.
Microelectrode recording methods for stereotactic localization of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) and surrounding structures are described. These methods accurately define targets for chronic deep brain stimulation in the treatment of Parkinson's disease. Mean firing rates and a burst index were determined for all recorded neurons, and responses to active and passive limb and orofacial movements were tested. STN neurons had a mean firing rate of 37+/-17 Hz (n = 248) and an irregular firing pattern (median burst index, 3.3). Movement-related activity and tremor cells were identified in the STN. Ventral to the STN, substantia nigra pars reticulata neurons had a mean rate of 71+/-23 Hz (n = 56) and a more regular firing pattern (median burst index, 1.7). Short trains (1-2 seconds) of electrical microstimulation of STN could produce tremor arrest but were not found to be useful for localization. Compared with data from normal monkeys our findings suggest that STN neuronal activity is elevated in Parkinson's disease.

Mitochondria play a pivotal role in cellular metabolism and in energy production in particular. Predictably, defects of mitochondrial metabolism have a deleterious effect on cell function and survival, especially in highly energy-dependent tissues such as brain and skeletal muscle. Although a multitude of biochemical reactions occur within mitochondria, the oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) system is the most important in terms of adenosine triphosphate generation and in its association with human disease.
The Human Genome Project (HGP), an international program to decode the entire DNA sequence of the human genome in 15 years, represents the largest biological experiment ever conducted. This set of information will contain the blueprint for the construction and operation of a human being. While the primary driving force behind the genome project is the potential to vastly expand the amount of genetic information available for biomedical research, the ramifications for other fields of study in biological research, the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry, our understanding of evolution, effects on agriculture, and implications for bioethics are likely to be profound.
Fear conditioning with electric shock (unconditioned stimulus, US) paired with tone cue (conditioned stimulus, CS) has been extensively applied in recent molecular neurobiological analysis of hippocampal dysfunction in mice because the context-dependent test phase of this learning paradigm is claimed to detect hippocampal impairment in a specific manner, whereas the cue-dependent test serves as a control situation independent of hippocampal function. These claims are based on hippocampal lesion studies performed with rats and have not been conclusively confirmed with mice with specific hippocampal lesion. Therefore, I investigated how hippocampal ibotenic acid lesion affects conditioned fear in mice. I confirm that extensive lesions localized to the hippocampus impair context-dependent learning but also show that, unlike in the original rat studies, the behavioral impairment is only partial. Furthermore, studying two inbred strains of mice (C57BL/6 and DBA/2) with highly different hippocampal function, I show that the presence or absence of CS during training may influence the mouse's ability to learn complex multiple contextual stimuli in a genotype-dependent manner. I conclude that performance at the 'context' test may be based on complex configural (hippocampal) learning but it can also be based on a more simple elemental (non-hippocampal) learning thus leading to potentially false-negative findings in the analysis of hippocampal dysfunction.
The protein tyrosine kinase Src is expressed widely in the central nervous system and is abundant in neurons. Over the past several years, evidence has accumulated showing that one function of Src is to regulate the activity of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors and other ion channels. NMDA receptors are a principal subtype of glutamate receptor that mediates fast excitatory transmission at most central synapses. Recently it has been discovered that, by means of up-regulating the function of NMDA receptors, Src mediates the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) in the CA1 region of the hippocampus. This finding led to a new model for induction of LTP whereby tetanic stimulation produces a rapid activation of Src, causing enhanced NMDA receptor function. This enhanced NMDA receptor function boosts the entry of Ca2+, which may thereby trigger the downstream signalling cascade, ending in potentiation of non-NMDA receptors. This functional role for Src may be important in physiological and pathophysiological processes in the central nervous system.
A new approach to automatic classification of retinal ganglion cells using multiscale techniques including the continuous wavelet transform, curvature, and standard pattern recognition techniques is described. Each neural cell is represented by its outer contour, and the wavelet transform is calculated from the complex signal defined by the aforementioned contour, leading to the so-called W-representation (Antoine et al. 1996). The normalized multiscale wavelet energy (NMWE) is used to define a set of shape measures associated with the number of details of the shape for a broad range of spatial scales. Next, the more discriminating NMWE coefficients are chosen through a feature ordering technique and fed to statistical classifiers. In addition, the normalized multiscale bending energy (NMBE) is discussed as a means of neural shape description for classification purposes based on the multiscale curvature, i.e. the curvegram, of the neural contour. It is shown that both shape descriptors are suitable for shape classification, presenting similar classification performance. In fact, NMBE has a slightly better recognition rate than NMWE in our experiments. On the other hand, NMWE is less computationally expensive than NMBE, presenting also the potentially useful property of allowing the use of more suitable different analyzing wavelets, depending on the problem under consideration. Therefore, both measures are related and provide a good framework for the design of neural cell description and classification. The methods described in this work have been successfully applied to the classification of two classes of cat retinal ganglion cells, namely alpha and beta (henceforth referred as alpha-cells and beta-cells, respectively), and three statistical classifiers were considered: minimum-distance, k-nearest neighbours and maximum likelihood. The mean recognition rates are near 90%, which is superior to the other shape measures considered. It is argued here that the proposed technique can be adopted as a new general methodology for multiscale shape analysis and recognition, being applicable also to other problems in biological shape characterization in neuroscience and general biomedical image analysis. In the context of analysis of shape complexity, the multiscale energies are coherent with subjective judgements by humans.


The endogenous opioid system has been implicated in the regulation of hormonal secretion, pain perception, and uterine contractility during pregnancy, but there is only limited information about the cellular location of opioid receptor and opioid peptide gene expression in the pregnant rodent uterus and placenta. In this study, we have used in situ hybridization to identify expression sites of mRNAs encoding the delta (delta), kappa (kappa), and mu ( micro) opioid receptors as well as the endogenous opioid peptide precursors proenkephalin (PENK), prodynorphin (PDYN), and proopiomelanocortin (POMC) in pregnant mouse uterus and placenta. Soon after implantation, all three opioid receptor genes as well as POMC and PENK, but not PDYN, were detected in the uterine environment. Each expressed gene exhibited a distinct expression pattern that was generally retained until late gestation. The delta receptor and POMC were coexpressed in the trophoblast giant cells, which remained the only cells of the placenta/uterus to express these two genes throughout gestation. Cells expressing kappa receptors were absent from the placenta but instead were found in the basal part of the decidualized uterine endometrium. While kappa and micro receptors were transiently expressed in the uterine myometrium (until embryonic day 8.5), substantial levels of PENK were continuously detected in this region until at least embryonic day 18. In addition, complementary expression of the micro receptor and PENK genes in the uterus was detected. Taken together, these results suggest multiple roles for the opioid receptors and opioid peptides in maternal adaptation to pregnancy and in supporting embryo growth.
The activation of latent transforming growth factor beta (L-TGFbeta) is essential for the action of TGFbeta, which, in turn, is involved in the regulation of expression of some progesterone-responsive genes. One mechanism by which TGFbeta is activated involves thrombospondin (TSP), a protein that binds extracellular proteins. Immunoreactive TSP (irTSP) protein and TSP-1 mRNA in myometrial tissues of ovulatory and pregnant women were localized by immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization. IrTSP and TSP-1 mRNA were randomly distributed in myometrial smooth muscle cells of some, but not all, tissues of pregnant women at term before labor; but in some areas of most of these tissues, irTSP was intense and commonly localized extracellularly. Intense irTSP and TSP-1 mRNA in myocytes were more common in myometrium during labor. In myometrium from ovulatory women (n = 26), irTSP was localized primarily in vascular smooth muscle cells and was detected occasionally in scattered myocytes. Little TSP-1 mRNA was demonstrable by in situ hybridization in vessels or myocytes of myometrial tissue from ovulatory women (n = 7). By Northern analysis of total RNA, TSP-1 mRNA was detected in myometrial tissue of pregnant women and in human myometrial smooth muscle cells in culture. The levels of TSP-1 mRNA in myometrial tissues of pregnant women during labor (n = 18) were greater than those in myometrium at &gt; 37 wk gestation before labor began (n = 25, p &lt; 0.001). The ratios of TSP-1 to glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase mRNAs in 3 myometrial tissues during oxytocin-induced labor were not statistically different from those in myometrium during spontaneous labor but were greater than those in myometrium before labor (p &lt; 0.05). The level of TSP-1 mRNA in confluent human myometrial cells in culture was relatively high, was increased by treatment with fetal bovine serum, and was decreased by treatment with platelet-derived growth factor or activators of adenylyl cyclase or protein kinase C. Myometrial cells in culture constitute a useful model for studying the regulation of TSP-1 gene expression in human myometrium.
Two novel series of 3-(heterocyclylmethyl)pyrazoles have been synthesised and evaluated as ligands for the human dopamine D4 receptor. Compounds in series I (exemplified by 8k) have a phenyl ring joined to the 4-position of the pyrazole while those in series II (exemplified by 15j) have a 5-phenyl ring linked by a saturated chain to the 4-position of the pyrazole. Both series supplied compounds with excellent affinity for the human D4 and good selectivity over other dopamine receptors. Excellent selectivity over calcium, sodium, and potassium ion channels was also achieved.
Intracellular Ca2+ was determined with the fura-2 technique during electrically induced contractions in the rabbit rectococcygeus smooth muscle at 22 degreesC. The muscles were electrically activated to give short, reproducible contractions. Intracellular [Ca2+] increased during activation; the increase in [Ca2+] preceded force development by approximately 2 s. After cessation of stimulation Ca2+ fell, preceding the fall in force by approximately 4 s. The fluorescence properties of fura-2 were determined with time-resolved spectroscopy using synchrotron light at the MAX-storage ring, Lund, Sweden. The fluorescence decay of free fura-2 was best described by two exponential decays (time constants approximately 0.5 and 1.5 ns) at low Ca2+ (pCa 9). At high Ca2+ (pCa 4.5), fluorescence decay became slower and could be fitted by one exponential decay (1.9 ns). Time-resolved anisotropy of free fura-2 was characteristic of free rotational motion (correlation time 0.3 ns). Motion of fura-2 could be markedly inhibited by high concentrations of creatine kinase. Time-resolved spectroscopy measurements of muscle fibers loaded with fura-2 showed that the fluorescence lifetime of the probe was longer, suggesting an influence of the chemical environment. Anisotropy measurements revealed, however, that the probe was mobile in the cells. The Ca2+-dependence of contraction and relaxation was studied using a photolabile calcium chelator, diazo-2, which could be loaded into the muscle cells in a similar manner as fura-2. Photolysis of diazo-2 leads to an increase in its Ca2+-affinity and a fall in free Ca2+. When muscles that had been loaded with diazo-2 were illuminated with UV light flashes during the rising phase of contraction, the rate of contraction became slower, suggesting a close relation between intracellular Ca2+ and the cross-bridge interaction. In contrast, photolysis during relaxation did not influence the rate of force decay, suggesting that relaxation of these contractions is not determined by the rate of Ca2+ removal or due to an increased Ca2+ sensitivity, but instead is limited by other processes such as deactivation by dephosphorylation or detachment of tension-bearing cross-bridges, possibly regulated by thin filament systems.
We investigated inhibition of the N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptor-channel complex by N-ethyl-1,4,9, 9alpha-tetrahydro-4alphaR-cis-4alphaH-fluoren-++ +4alpha-amine (NEFA), a structural analog of phencyclidine (PCP). Using the whole-cell recording technique, we demonstrated that NEFA inhibits NMDA responses with an IC50 of 0.51 microM at -66 mV. We determined that NEFA binds to the open channel, and subsequently the channel can close and trap the blocker. Once the channel has closed, NEFA is unable to dissociate until the channel reopens. Single-channel recordings revealed that NEFA reduces the mean open time of single NMDA-activated channels in a concentration-dependent manner with a forward blocking rate (k+) of 39.9 microM-1 s-1. A computational model of antagonism by NEFA was developed and constrained using kinetic measurements of single-channel data. By multiple criteria, only models in which blocker binding in the channel causes a change in receptor operation adequately fit or predicted whole-cell data. By comparing model predictions and experimental measurements of NEFA action at a high NMDA concentration, we determined that NEFA affects receptor operation through an influence on channel gating. We conclude that inhibition of NMDA receptors by PCP-like blockers involves a modification of channel gating as well as block of current flow through the open channel.
Tissue blood flow and blood pressure are each regulated by the contractile behavior of resistance artery smooth muscle. Vascular diseases such as hypertension have also been attributed to changes in vascular smooth muscle function as a consequence of altered Ca2+ removal. In the present study of Ca2+ removal mechanisms, in dissociated single cells from resistance arteries using fura-2 microfluorimetry and voltage clamp, Ca2+ uptake by the sarcoplasmic reticulum and extrusion by the Ca2+ pump in the cell membrane were demonstrably important in regulating Ca2+. In contrast, the Na+-Ca2+ exchanger played no detectable role in clearing Ca2+. Thus a voltage pulse to 0 mV, from a holding potential of -70 mV, triggered a Ca2+ influx and increased intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i). On repolarization, [Ca2+]i returned to the resting level. The decline in [Ca2+]i consisted of three phases. Ca2+ removal was fast immediately after repolarization (first phase), then plateaued (second phase), and finally accelerated just before [Ca2+]i returned to resting levels (third phase). Thapsigargin or ryanodine, which each inhibit Ca2+ uptake into stores, did not affect the first but significantly inhibited the third phase. On the other hand, Na+ replacement with choline+ did not affect either the phasic features of Ca2+ removal or the absolute rate of its decline. Ca2+ removal was voltage-independent; holding the membrane potential at 120 mV, rather than at -70 mV, after the voltage pulse to 0 mV, did not attenuate Ca2+ removal rate. These results suggest that Ca2+ pumps in the sarcoplasmic reticulum and the plasma membrane, but not the Na+-Ca2+ exchanger, are important in Ca2+ removal in cerebral resistance artery cells.
To assess the effects of solitary, right-sided supratentorial intracranial tumours on language and communication function patients were assessed preoperatively using the Western Aphasia Battery (WAB) and Boston Naming Test (BNT). The impact of resective tumour surgery was evaluated prospectively by a comparison of test scores obtained at pre- and postoperative assessments. The WAB scores in 33 patients revealed that 21% were by definition dysphasic (i.e. Aphasia Quotient &lt; 93.8) and 35% obtained an abnormal Language Quotient. Performance was particularly variable on the written picture description and word fluency WAB subtests. Using the BNT 21% of 47 patients were anomic. The tumours were evenly distributed throughout the frontal, temporal and parietal lobes, but none were in the occipital lobe. Reassessment approximately 6 days after excisional tumour surgery showed that mean scores for the BNT, Aphasia Quotient, and the WAB spontaneous speech and comprehension subtests had improved significantly despite a significant reduction in dexamethasone therapy. This study has demonstrated that right-sided intracranial tumours produce subtle, but specific language deficits of a type more usually associated with left-sided brain dysfunction. The pathophysiological basis of these deficits is unclear, but they are not attributable to either limited education or pre-existing dyslexia. Further studies using a discriminating and comprehensive assessment of language in the right hemisphere are required.

1. The presence and characteristics of P2X receptors on neurons of the rat major pelvic ganglia (MPG) have been studied using whole cell voltage-clamp, in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. 2. Rapid application of ATP (100 microM) to isolated rat MPG neurons induced moderately large inward currents (0.33-5.3 nA) in 39% of cells (108/277). The response to ATP occurred very rapidly, with an increase in membrane conductance, and desensitized slowly. 3. The concentration-response curve for ATP yielded an EC50 of 58.9 microM. The agonist profile was ATP&gt; or =2MeSATP=ATPgammaS&gt;BzATP, while alpha,beta-MeATP, beta,gamma-MeATP, UTP and ADP were all inactive at concentrations up to 100 microM. 4. The response to ATP was antagonized by suramin (pA2=5.6), reactive blue-2 (IC50=0.7 microM) and pyridoxalphosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulphonic acid (PPADS). 5. Lowering the pH from 7.4 to 6.8 produced a marked potentiation (to 339% of control) of the responses to ATP (30 microM), while raising the pH to 8.0 attenuated the responses (to 20% of control). The EC50s for ATP were 28.8, 58.9 and 264 microM at pH 6.8, 7.4 and 8.0, respectively. 6. Co-application of ATP with Zn2+ produced a marked enhancement of the responses to ATP, with an EC50 of 9.55 microM. In the presence of Zn2+ (30 microM), the EC50 for ATP was decreased to 4.57 microM. 7. In situ hybridization revealed that the P2X receptor transcripts levels in rat MPG neurons are P2X2&gt;P2X4&gt;P2X1, P2X3, P2X5 and P2X6. The immunohistochemical staining revealed a small number of neurons with strong P2X2 immunoreactivity. 8. In conclusion, our results indicate that there are P2X receptors present on MPG neurons. The pharmacological characteristics of these receptors, the in situ hybridization and immunohistochemical evidence are consistent with them being of the P2X2 subtype, or heteromultimers. with P2X2 being the dominant component.
1. The aim of the present study was to validate the Cytosensor microphysiometer, a novel system that measures the extracellular acidification rate as a reliable index of the integrated functional response to receptor activation, as a method for studying NK3 receptor pharmacology, and then to use this system to assess the functional activity of novel compounds at this receptor. 2. The selective NK3 agonist senktide caused reproducible, concentration-related increases in acidification ratein CHO-NK3 cells, with a pEC50 value of 8.72+/-0.11 (n=15). [Beta-Ala8]NKA(4-10), the selective NK2 agonist, elicited a much weaker response (pEC50=6.68+/-0.08, n=4), while the NK1-selective agonist substance P methylester only caused a very weak response at concentrations &gt; or =3 microM (n=2). The rank order of potency for the endogenous tachykinins NKB&gt;NKA&gt;substance P (n=3) confirmed the response was mediated by the NK3 receptor. Moreover, the actual potencies obtained were consistent with affinities measured in radioligand binding studies. 3. The novel compounds PD156319-121 (0.3-1 microM), PD161182 (10-300 nM), PD168001 (10-100 nM) and PD168073 (10-100 nM) all acted as surmountable antagonists of the senktide-induced acidification response, with pA2 values of 7.49, 8.67, 9.17 and 9.25 respectively (n=3-5). In comparison the known NK3 antagonist SR142801 (10-100 nM) had a pA2 value of 8.83 (n=8) for the interaction with senktide. Again, these values are consistent with the radioligand binding data. 4. Amiloride (1 mM) inhibited the senktide-induced acidification response by 68.3+/-3.3 (n=4), indicating that the Na+/H+ antiporter plays an important role in this response, and this is consistent with the importance of this antiporter in other acidification responses. 5. Inhibition of protein kinase C with staurosporine (0.1 microM), or depletion of the intracellular Ca2+ stores with thapsigargin (1 microM), both resulted in a reduction in the maximum response to senktide (63.3+/-1.7 and 68.9+/-3.2% respectively, n=3-5), and co-application of these inhibitors abolished the response (n=3). This strongly suggested that the NK3 receptor was coupling via phospholipase C (PLC), as would be expected, although this could not be confirmed by the use of the putative PLC/PLA2 inhibitor U73122. 6. In conclusion, we have demonstrated the utility of the Cytosensor in the characterization of functional responses to agonists, and assessment of the affinities of antagonists in CHO cells expressing the human NK3, and have shown that our series of novel compounds are non-peptide NK3 antagonists of high affinity, as exemplified by PD168073.
1. Cysteine 114 (C114) of the human dopamine D3 receptor is located at the helical face of transmembrane segment III (TMIII) near aspartate 110, a counterion for the amine group of catecholamines. The contributions of C114 to receptor function were investigated here using site-directed mutagenesis of C114 to serine. 2. The C114S mutant, as expressed in Sf-9 cells, bound aminotetralin antagonists (UH-232 and AJ-76) and several agonists ((-)3-PPP, apomorphine, pramipexole and quinpirole) with markedly lower affinities as compared to the wild type D3 receptor, but bound other structurally diverse dopaminergic ligands with only minor changes in affinity. Because an N-propyl substituent is the only common structural feature among most affected ligands, we propose that the mutation alters 'a propyl cleft' on the receptor. The mutation hardly affected quinpirole-dependent [35S]-GTPgammaS binding, suggesting C114 plays a minimal role in receptor-G-protein coupling. 3. N-Ethylmaleimide(NEM), a sulfhydryl modifying agent, blocked ligand binding to the D3 receptor, but not to the C114S mutant. We infer that C114 is the primary residue on the D3 receptor vulnerable to external oxidizing agents. Dopamine D2long and D4(2) receptors contain highly homologous TMIII sequences including an equivalent cysteine residue. However, only the D2long receptor, not the D4(2) receptor, displayed NEM sensitivity similar to that of the D3 receptor. 4. We conclude that C114 is critical for high affinity interactions between the D3 receptor and ligands containing an N-propyl substituent, and unlike its counterpart in the D4(2) receptor, is highly susceptible to external oxidizing agents.
1. The effects of the 5-HT2A/2C agonist DOB, the selective 5-HT1A agonist NDO 008 (3-dipropylamino-5-hydroxychroman), and the two enantiomers of the selective 5-HT1A agonist 8-OH-DPAT (R(+)-8-OH-DPAT and S(-)-8-OH-DPAT) were studied in a step-through passive avoidance (PA) test in the male rat. 2. The 5-HT1A agonists injected prior to training (conditioning) produced a dose-dependent impairment of PA retention when examined 24 h later. R(+)-8-OH-DPAT was four times more effective than S(-)-8-OH-DPAT to cause an impairment of PA retention. Both NDO 008 and the two enantiomers of 8-OH-DPAT induced the serotonin syndrome at the dose range that produced inhibition of the PA response, thus, indicating activation of postsynaptic 5-HT1A receptors. 3. Neither NDO 008 nor R(+)-8-OH-DPAT induced head-twitches, a behavioural response attributed to stimulation of postsynaptic 5-HT2A receptors. In contrast, DOB induced head-twitches at the 0.01 mg kg(-1) dose while a 200 times higher dose was required to produce a significant impairment of PA retention. 4. The impairment of PA retention induced by both NDO 008 and R(+)-8-OH-DPAT was fully blocked by the active S(+)- enantiomer of the selective 5-HT1A antagonist WAY 100135 and the mixed 5-HT1A/beta-adrenoceptor antagonist L(-)-alprenolol. In contrast, the mixed 5-HT2A/2C antagonists ketanserin and pirenperone were found to be ineffective. Moreover, the beta2-adrenoceptor antagonist ICI 118551, the beta-antagonist metoprolol as well as the mixed beta-adrenoceptor blocker D(+)-alprenolol all failed to modify the deficit of PA retention by NDO 008 and R(+)-8-OH-DPAT. None of the 5-HT1A or 5-HT2A/2C receptor antagonists tested or the beta-blockers altered PA retention by themselves. 5. A 3 day pretreatment procedure (200+100+100 mg kg(-1)) with the tryptophan hydroxylase inhibitor p-chlorophenylalanine (PCPA) did not alter PA retention and did not prevent the inhibitory action of the 5-HT1A agonists, indicating that their effects on PA do not depend on endogenous 5-HT. 6. The effects of NDO 008 on PA were also studied using a state-dependent learning paradigm. NDO 008 was found to produce a disruption of PA when given either prior to training or retention or both prior to training and retention but it failed to affect PA retention when given immediately after training. .7 These findings indicate that the deficit of passive avoidance retention induced by the 5-HT1A agonists is mainly a result of stimulation of postsynaptic 5-HT1A receptors but not 5-HT2A receptors. The 5-HT1A receptor stimulation appears to interfere with learning processes operating at both acquisition and retrieval.
In this study we assessed the safety, efficacy and cost-effectiveness of the use of triple dose gadolinium-DTPA (Gd) in serial monthly brain MRI of patients with multiple sclerosis, such as could be selected for clinical trials. The number of enhancing lesions, the number of new enhancing lesions and the number of active scans were used to evaluate the sensitivity of the contrast-enhanced MRI to disease activity. The dose of Gd, and the effect of introducing a delay between the contrast injection and the scan were both appraised. Every 4 weeks for 3 months, and in two separate sessions, scans were obtained from 40 patients with relapsing-remitting or secondary progressive multiple sclerosis, 5 min (early) and 20 min (delayed) after a standard dose (0.1 mmol/kg) or triple dose (0.3 mmol/kg) Gd injection. There were 435 enhancing lesions (242 of which were new) on the early standard dose scans, 479 (263 new) on the delayed standard dose, 772 (365 new) on the early triple dose and 827 (404 new) on the delayed triple dose. There were 109 scans revealing active disease on the early standard dose scans, 112 on the delayed standard dose, 119 on the early triple dose and 120 on the delayed triple dose. Statistical simulations indicated that the sample sizes needed for both cross-over and parallel-group trials with similar powers are lower if serial monthly triple dose MRI is used. No side-effects were reported and no significant changes in blood test parameters were found throughout the study. This study shows that the serial use of triple dose Gd is safe, and that it increases the sensitivity of serial monthly enhanced MRI in detecting multiple sclerosis activity significantly. Its use should enable preliminary trials of experimental therapies for multiple sclerosis to be conducted in small patient populations, over a short period of time.
Transient global ischaemia due to cardiac arrest may lead to profound neuropsychological disorders. Recent research indicates that memory processes are particularly impaired after hypoxic brain injury. Visual recognition memory functions were examined in these patients by means of event-related potential (ERP) and performance data. Eight chronic hypoxic patients, matched with controls for sex and age, performed a visual recognition memory task requiring recognition judgements for either object forms or spatial locations and a visual classification (i.e. oddball) task that imposed negligible memory demands. Reliable P300 oddball effects were obtained both for patients and for controls, whereas the two groups differed in P300 latency and P300 scalp topography. In the memory task, old/new effects (i.e. larger ERP waveforms for previously studied than for unstudied items) were found for the controls. In contrast, in patients these old/new effects were absent or even inverted in polarity while recognition performance was well above chance level, except for one patient. These results suggest that recognition, based on the retrieval of an item's study episode, is degraded in patients who have suffered a period of transient global ischaemia. In the light of the patients' above-chance level of recognition performance and the outcome of post hoc analysis of practice-related changes in recognition performance, it is argued that the patients' memory disorders are best characterized as a degradation of explicit memory functions such as episodic retrieval of a study episode. Implicit functions such as cognitive skill learning were intact.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is an adult-onset neurological disorder of multiple etiologies that affects primarily motor neurons in the brain and spinal cord. Abnormal accumulations of neurofilaments (NFs) in motor neurons and a down-regulation of mRNA for the NF light subunit (NF-L) are associated with ALS, but it remains unclear to what extent these NF perturbations contribute to human disease. Transgenic mouse studies demonstrated that overexpression of normal and mutant NF proteins can sometimes provoke a motor neuronopathy characterized by the presence of abnormal NF accumulations resembling those found in ALS. Remarkably, the motor neuronopathy in transgenic mice overexpressing human NF heavy (NF-H) subunits was rescued by the co-expression of a human NF-L transgene at levels that restored a correct stoichiometry of NF-L to NF-H subunits. Transgenic approaches have also been used to investigate the role of NFs in disease caused by Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1) mutations, which is responsible for approximately 2% cases of ALS. Studies with transgenic mice expressing low levels of a fusion NF-H/lacZ protein, in which NFs are withheld from the axonal compartment, suggested that axonal NFs are not toxic intermediates required for SOD1-mediated disease. On the contrary, overexpression of human NF-H proteins was found to confer an effective protection against mutant SOD1 toxicity in transgenic mice, a phenomenon that may be due to the ability of NF proteins to chelate calcium. In conclusion, transgenic studies showed that disorganized NFs can sometimes have noxious effects resulting in neuronopathy. However, in the context of motor neuron disease caused by mutant SOD1, there is emerging evidence that NF proteins rather play a protective role.
Rats infected with Trypanosoma brucei brucei, a subspecies of the extracellular parasites that cause African sleeping sickness, were examined for disturbances in the circadian rhythms of melatonin secretion (evaluated by determination of the excretion of melatonin in the urine) and the binding of melatonin to its receptor in the suprachiasmatic nuclei of the anterior hypothalamus. In normal and infected rats, Cosinor analysis showed a significant nocturnal peak. The amplitude of this peak was, however, significantly decreased in the infected rats. The peak of melatonin receptor binding in the suprachiasmatic nuclei showed a 4-h phase advance in the infected rats, compared with the controls (0400 and 0800, respectively). These data point to a disturbance in the circadian rhythm of the melatonin-generating systems in the pathogenesis of African sleeping sickness.
D-Ala2-Met5-enkephalinamide (DALA) (1.0 microg/microl) was administered intraventricularly to mice responding for electrical stimulation from the dorsal or ventral aspects of the VTA immediately prior to footshock (Experiment 1). Predictably, footshock reduced self-stimulation from the dorsal but not the ventral VTA immediately, 24, and 168 h following the stressor. Intraventricular DALA administration effected a partial attenuation of stressor-induced self-stimulation reductions from the dorsal VTA immediately and 24 h poststressor. Deficits appeared among DALA-Shocked mice responding for brain stimulation from the ventral VTA during comparable test intervals. The long-term depressant influence of footshock on self-stimulation from the dorsal VTA was abolished among DALA-treated mice and DALA-associated reductions in self-stimulation from the ventral A10 region among stressed mice were not evident 1 week later. Administration of D-Ala2, N-Me-Phe4, Gly-Ol5-enkephalin (DAGO) (0.01 microg/microl) or D-Pen2, D-Pen5-enkephalin (DPDPE) (1.0 microg/microl) intraventricularly prior to footshock effected an immediate and a delayed antagonism, respectively, of the stressor on self-stimulation from the dorsal VTA, which persisted for 1 week. Prophylactic administration of 0.001 microg/microl DAGO or 0.01 microg/microl DPDPE prior to the stressor failed to influence self-stimulation from the ventral VTA (Experiment 2). Administration of 0.01 microg/microl DAGO or 1.0 microg/microl DPDPE among mice responding for brain stimulation from the dorsal VTA following footshock produced a weak therapeutic effect immediately poststressor, but effected protracted amelioration of footshock-induced reductions of self-stimulation from the dorsal VTA (Experiment 3). Taken together, mu, delta, and mu-delta activation influenced self-stimulation differentially from the dorsal and ventral VTA according to the temporal order of opioid peptide challenge relative to stressor imposition. These data are discussed with respect to stressors, motivational alterations, and the putative modulating influence of endogenous enkephalin activity in subareas of the VTA.
This paper describes experiments performed with 40 subjects wearing an eye-tracker and watching and imitating videos of finger, hand, and arm movements. For all types of stimuli, the subjects tended to fixate on the hand, regardless of whether they were imitating or just watching. The results lend insight into the connection between visual perception and motor control, suggesting that: (1) people analyze human arm movements largely by tracking the hand or the end-point, even if the movement is performed with the entire arm, and (2) when imitating, people use internal innate and learned models of movement, possibly in the form of motor primitives, to recreate the details of whole-arm posture and movement from end-point trajectories.
The role of left prefrontal cortex in lexical-semantic processing remains a matter of some debate. Functional neuroimaging experiments have reported blood flow changes in left inferior prefrontal cortex (LIPC) during tasks that involve word retrieval and semantic processing. Some of these studies have also implicated LIPC in repetition priming. To determine the necessity of prefrontal cortex for these types of memory and to elucidate their time-course, behavioral and event-related potential (ERP) correlates of lexical processing and repetition priming were examined in 11 stroke patients with lesions centered in dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (areas 9 and 46). Damage extended inferiorly and posteriorly to areas 6, 8, 44, and 45 in some subjects, so patients were subdivided into anterior and posterior frontal subgroups. Visually presented words and pronounceable non-words were repeated after one of three delays. Subjects categorized stimuli as either words or non-words in a lexical decision task. Controls showed significant word priming at all three delays. Old words elicited more positive-going potentials than new words, beginning at 300 ms and lasting until 500-700 ms. This ERP repetition effect was reduced, but not eliminated, by both anterior and posterior frontal lesions. However, behavioral priming was intact in the patients, suggesting that prefrontal cortex may modulate the neural generators in posterior cortical regions that are critical for priming. Left posterior frontal lesions resulted in impaired performance in the lexical decision task and a reduction in the amplitude of the late positive component (LPC). These latter findings suggest that left posterior prefrontal cortex is important for the categorization and selection processes required by lexical-semantic tasks.
To determine visual areas of the human brain involved in elementary form processing, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) was used to measure regional responses to two types of achromatic textures. Healthy young adults were presented with 'random' textures which lacked spatial organization of the black and white pixels that make up the image, and 'correlated' textures in which the pixels were ordered to produce extended contours and rectangular blocks at multiple spatial scales. Relative to a fixation condition, random texture stimulation resulted in increased signal intensity primarily in the striate cortex, with slight involvement of the cuneus and middle occipital, lingual and fusiform gyri. Correlated texture stimulation also resulted in activation of these areas, yet the regional extent of this activation was significantly greater than that produced by random textures. Unlike random stimulation, correlated stimulation additionally resulted in middle temporal activation. Direct comparison of the two stimulation conditions revealed significant differences most consistently in the anterior fusiform gyrus, but also in striate, middle occipital, lingual and posterior temporal regions in subjects with robust activation patterns. While both random and correlated stimulation produced activation in similar areas of the occipital lobe, the increase in regional activation during the correlated condition suggests increased recruitment of neuronal populations occurs in response to textures containing visually salient features. This increased recruitment occurs within striate, extrastriate and temporal regions of the brain, also suggesting the presence of receptive field mechanisms in the ventral visual pathway that are sensitive to features produced by higher-order spatial correlations.
Prosaposin, the precursor of sphingolipid activator proteins (saposin A-D), has been reported to be a neurotrophic factor in vitro and in vivo. Prosaposin mRNA is transiently expressed at a high level in developing cerebellum during the period of granule cell proliferation and maturation, suggesting its significance during development of cerebellum. Here we investigated the neuroprotective effect of prosaposin on cerebellar granule neurons, exposing primary cerebellar granule cells to low K+ which induced programmed cell death. Prosaposin rescued mature cerebellar granule neurons in a bimodal manner. A similar neuroprotective effect was obtained using TX14(A), a 14-mer neurotrophic peptide derivative of prosaposin. An additive neuroprotective effect was observed between BDNF and TX14(A), but not between IGF-1 and TX14(A). Prosaposin rescued 60% of nifedipine sensitive cerebellar granule neurons as well as IGF-1, while BDNF did not. Furthermore, the neuroprotective action of prosaposin was inhibited by LY294002, a specific inhibitor of PI 3-kinase. These findings indicated that prosaposin had a trophic effect upon newborn cerebellar granule cells and that the neuroprotective action was similar to that of IGF-1 rather than BDNF. Prosaposin may play a role in cerebellar development during programmed cell death of cerebellar neurons.
The developmental characteristics of the neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) immunoreactive neurons in the human brain were studied. In the frontal lobe, nNOS immunoreactive cells appeared as early as 18 gestational weeks (GW) in the subcortical plate and then increased predominantly in the subcortical white matter during the fetal period, while weakly immunoreactive neurons were found in the cortical II-IV layers after 26 GW. In the basal ganglia, immunoreactive neurons could be detected in the striatum as early as 13 GW, and then showed a transient increase with peaks at 23-24 GW and 33-36 GW in the putamen and caudate nucleus, respectively. In the cerebellum, immunoreactivity was detected in the Purkinje and basket cells after 23 GW and 31 GW, respectively. The immunoreactivity of internal granule cells was constantly weak. In the brain stem, constant and intense immunoreactive neurons were found in the central gray, pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus, solitary tract nucleus, and lateral reticular nucleus. The immunoreactivity in the neurons of the pontine nucleus and inferior olivary nucleus was transiently increased, with peaks at 38-40 GW and 23-24 GW, respectively. This characteristic nNOS development suggests that transient nNOS hyperproduction may contribute to neuron maturation as well as vulnerability in each period and region, and NO may play an important role in the basic development of human brain functions.
The binding of agrin to the muscle cell surface can induce radical changes in the topography and physiology of the cell membrane, resulting in the organization of postsynaptic components opposite the nerve terminal. Alternative splicing of agrin mRNA yields several isoforms, which vary in their cellular expression, developmental profile, and acetylcholine receptor (AChR) clustering activity. Neurons and muscle cells express several of these agrin isoforms. To address the role of alternative splicing in regulating agrin's function, we compared the effects of splicing at the y and z sites of agrin (denoted 'Agy,z'). Agrin isoforms bound differently to the myotube surface: Ag0,0 and Ag4,0 showed much higher levels of binding than Ag4,8. The artificial splice form Ag0,8 showed binding levels similar to Ag4,8. Visualization of the bound agrin after an acute incubation revealed that each isoform associated with the cell surface in a distinct pattern. These binding patterns changed following stimulation of the myotubes with Ag4,8 for 4 h (which induces the clustering of AChRs). Ag4,8 binding sites were concentrated at &gt;90% of the induced AChR clusters, while those for Ag4,0, Ag0,8, and Ag0,0 were enriched at 70%, 50% and 25%, respectively. Together, these observations indicate that alternatively spliced forms of agrin recognize at least partially non-overlapping populations of binding sites on the cell surface, and that the eight amino acid insert is the dominant factor influencing the level of the agrin binding to the cell surface. Further, some of these populations redistribute to AChR clusters upon agrin stimulation.
Substance P (SP) can play an important role in neuronal survival. To analyze the role of SP in excitotoxicity, kainic acid (KA) was administered to rats and in situ hybridization was used to analyze the levels of the SP encoding preprotachykinin-A (PPT-A) mRNA in striatal and hippocampal subregions 1, 4, and 24 h and 7 days after KA. In striatum and piriform cortex, PPT-A mRNA peaked 4 h after KA while in hippocampus, levels peaked after 24 h. KA caused seizures and neuronal toxicity as indicated by a reduction of the number of neurons in the hippocampal CA1 subregion after 7 days. KA was later administered alone or following pretreatment with the tachykinin NK1 receptor antagonist CP-122,721-1 (0.3 mg/kg). The pretreatment decreased seizure activity and a negative correlation was found between seizure activity and survival of CA1 neurons. Conclusively, treatment with CP-122,721-1 has a seizure inhibiting property and may possibly counteract KA-induced nerve cell death in CA1.
Proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) is required for completion of the DNA synthesis step of DNA replication as well as nucleotide excision repair (NER) of damaged DNA. We investigated the expression of PCNA mRNA and the levels of PCNA protein in the adult rat hippocampus following normo- and hypothermic global forebrain ischemia. Hypothermia protected the CA1 neurons from ischemic damage. A constitutive expression of PCNA mRNA and protein was detected in all hippocampal subfields, as well as in other brain regions. During reperfusion, PCNA mRNA levels were up-regulated in the vulnerable CA1 subfield at 36 h following normothermic ischemia. In hypothermia, this induction appeared already after 18 h. Following normothermic ischemia, nuclear PCNA immunoreactivity was largely abolished during reperfusion in the vulnerable CA1 neurons, prior to cell death. In contrast, total PCNA protein content of this region, as measured by Western blotting, remained largely unchanged. In the CA3 region, a transient decrease in nuclear PCNA immunoreactivity was observed. In the dentate gyrus region, no down-regulation of nuclear or total PCNA protein was observed during reperfusion. Following hypothermic ischemia, the PCNA protein levels did not decrease in any of the hippocampal subregions. In contrast, no change in the levels of Ref-1, a protein involved in base excision DNA repair (BER), was observed following normo- or hypothermic ischemia. Our findings indicate an altered functional state of PCNA protein in the ischemia-sensitive CA1 neurons suggesting that DNA repair processes are affected in these post-mitotic cells following ischemia. Impaired DNA repair may play a role in the development of postischemic neuronal damage.
[Met5]-enkephalin, encoded by the preproenkephalin (PPE) gene, serves as a growth factor (opioid growth factor, OGF) during cardiac development in addition to its role as a neuroregulator. This study examined the ontogeny and relationship of gene and peptide expression in the mammalian heart during late embryonic, preweaning, and postweaning periods. Values for PPE mRNA of hearts in rats from embryonic day 16 (E16) to postnatal day 1 were 33 to 50% of levels found in adults. Adult values for the mature heart were comparable to those in the caudate, an area of the rat brain rich in PPE mRNA. Message gradually decreased during the first postnatal week to 10% of adult values and remained so until weaning. PPE mRNA on days 35 and 50 were three- and sevenfold, respectively, higher than at 21 days, and in adults was more than 50% greater than at day 50. Message for PPE in neonatal heart was regulated rapidly and in a sustained fashion by excess opioid agonist (OGF) or blockade of opioid-receptor interaction. [Met5]-enkephalin levels increased sevenfold between E18 and E20, and another 1.6-fold until birth. Having reached a zenith in the neonate, values for enkephalin-like peptide decreased gradually through the 2nd postnatal week, and were extremely low in adulthood. Indeed, a 43-fold difference in peptide levels was detected between neonatal and adult rat heart. These data provide evidence for the expression of a tightly regulated and distinct growth factor (OGF) during the crucial periods of cell proliferation and differentiation in the mammalian heart, and reveal that the source of OGF is autocrine and/or paracrine.
This study evaluated changes in the antioxidant defences of mitochondria induced by 30 min of forebrain ischemia and recirculation up to 24 h in rats. Following treatment, mitochondria were isolated from two brain subregions: the dorsolateral striatum, an area in which there is loss of most neurons, and the paramedian cortex in which most neurons are resistant to damage. During ischemia and the first few hours of recirculation, the mitochondrial defences were largely preserved based on measurements of the activities of the enzymes, superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase and glutathione reductase, as well as the response of the mitochondria to a subsequent exposure to H2O2 in vitro. However, some moderate changes were detected, particularly in the mitochondria from the dorsolateral striatum. A decrease of 30% in the activity of superoxide dismutase was seen at the conclusion of the ischemic period and a small increase in susceptibility to changes induced by H2O2 was detected during early recirculation. This latter change preceded and possibly contributed to the development of an impairment of respiratory function detected in mitochondria from the dorsolateral striatum at 3 h of recirculation. At 24 h of recirculation, larger changes were seen in the activities of all three of the enzymes in mitochondria from the dorsolateral striatum but not the paramedian cortex that was associated with progression to advanced neuronal damage in the former subregion.
Interpretation of evoked response potentials is complicated by the extensive superposition of multiple electrical events. The most common approach to disentangling these features is principal components analysis (PCA). Critics have demonstrated a number of caveats that complicate interpretation, notably misallocation of variance and latency jitter. This paper describes some further caveats to PCA as well as using simulations to evaluate three potential methods for addressing them: parallel analysis, oblique rotations, and spatial PCA. An improved simulation model is introduced for examining these issues. It is concluded that PCA is an essential statistical tool for event-related potential analysis, but only if applied appropriately.
Recent studies have shown that nitric oxide (NO) donors can trigger apoptosis of neurons, and growth factors such as insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) can protect against NO-induced neuronal cell death. The purpose of this study was to elucidate the possible mechanisms of NO-mediated neuronal apoptosis and the neuroprotective action of these growth factors. Both IGF-1 and bFGF prevented apoptosis induced by NO donors, sodium nitroprusside (SNP) or 3-morpholinosydnonimin (SIN-1) in hippocampal neuronal cultures. Incubation of neurons with SNP induced caspase-3-like activation following downregulation of Bcl-2 and upregulation of Bax protein levels in cultured neurons. Treatment of neurons with a bax antisense oligonucleotide inhibited the caspase-3-like activation and neuronal death induced by SNP. In addition, treatment of neurons with an inhibitor of caspase-3, Ac-DEVD-CHO, together with SNP did not affect the changes in the protein levels, although it inhibited NO-induced cell death. Pretreatment of cultures with either IGF-1 or bFGF prior to NO exposure inhibited caspase-3-like activation together with the changes in Bcl-2 and Bax protein levels. These results suggest that the changes in Bcl-2 and Bax protein levels followed by caspase-3-like activation are a component in the cascade of NO-induced neuronal apoptosis, and that the neuroprotective actions of IGF-1 and bFGF might be due to inhibition of the changes in the protein levels of the Bcl-2 family.
Suramin is an experimental antineoplastic agent that is currently being tested in clinical trials for a number of human cancers. In previous clinical trials, it has been noted that a significant percentage of patients treated with suramin develop a peripheral neuropathy. Both the cytotoxic (chemotherapeutic) and neurotoxic mechanisms of action of this compound are unknown. Evidence presented in this study suggests that both effects may be due to extensive disruption in glycolipid transport and/or metabolism. Suramin treated dorsal root ganglion cultures revealed an accumulation of the GM1 ganglioside and ceramide. Exposure of cultures to suramin, a cell permeable ceramide analog, or sphingomyelinase lead to apoptotic cell death demonstrated by electron microscopy, bis-benzimide staining and DNA laddering on gel electrophoresis. Furthermore, a significant increase in intracellular ceramide preceded cell death in suramin treated neurons. We propose that suramin induced ceramide accumulation within neurons leads to apoptotic cell death.
1. We developed a simple and sensitive peripheral analgesic test in mice. 2. Substance P (SP) given into the planta (i.pl.) of the mouse hind limb produced a flexor response. The flexor response was dependent on SP doses (0.1-100 pmol, i.pl.). When SP (10 pmol) was given every 5 min, there were stable flexor responses. These nociceptive responses were completely abolished by CP-96,345, a neurokinin 1 receptor antagonist. 3. SP-induced responses were also blocked by several signal transduction-related compounds, such as tetrodotoxin, EGTA, and U73122, a selective phospholipase C inhibitor. 4. These findings suggest that SP depolarizes peripheral nerve endings, possibly through inositol trisphosphate (Ins P3)-gated Ca2+ influx, followed by induction of action potentials in the peripheral axons of primary afferent neurons.
The ability of dopamine to regulate the cognitive functions of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) involves complex modulatory actions on GABA-containing local circuit neurons in addition to pyramidal cells. However, the subclasses of cortical neurons that receive direct dopamine input are not known. We sought to determine whether dopamine terminals innervate the subclasses of local circuit neurons that contain the calcium-binding protein parvalbumin (PV), namely the wide arbor and chandelier neurons that target pyramidal cell soma and axon initial segments respectively. Sections through area 9 of five monkeys were labeled with immunoperoxidase for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), to identify dopamine terminals, and with immunogold-silver for PV. Electron microscopic examination of the middle cortical layers (IIIb-IV) revealed that TH-positive terminals were sometimes directly apposed to PV-labeled dendrites, and approximately one-third of these contacts exhibited morphological features that are typically associated with symmetric synapses. In contrast, TH-immunolabeled terminals in the superficial layers (I-IIIa) were less frequently apposed to PV-positive dendrites, and none of these contacts exhibited synapse-like morphology. These findings, in concert with previous studies of GABA- or calretinin-containing local circuit neurons, suggest that dopamine's modulatory action in the PFC involves selective effects on only certain interneuron populations, including those that mediate potent inhibitory actions on pyramidal cells.
When two tasks are performed simultaneously, performance often deteriorates, with concomitant increases in reaction time and error rate. Three potential neurophysiological mechanisms behind this deterioration in performance have been considered here: (i) dual-task performance requires additional cognitive operations and activation of cortical areas in addition to those active during single-task performance; (ii) two tasks interfere if they require activation of the same part of cortex; and (iii) cross-modal inhibition causes interference between two tasks involving stimuli from different sensory modalities. Positron emission tomography was used to measure regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) during performance of an auditory working memory (WM) task, a visual WM task, both WM tasks (dual task) and a control condition. Compared to the control condition, the auditory and visual WM tasks activated sensory-specific areas in the superior temporal gyrus and occipital pole respectively. Both WM tasks also activated overlapping parts of cortex in the dorsolateral prefrontal, inferior parietal and cingulate cortex. There was no separate cortical area which was activated only in the dual task, and thus no area which could be associated with any dual task specific cognitive process such as task-coordination or divided attention. Decrease in rCBF in one WM task did not overlap with the areas of rCBF increase in the other WM task. However, an inhibitory mechanism could not be ruled out, since the rCBF increase in sensory specific areas was smaller in the dual-task condition than in the single-task conditions. The cortical activity underlying WM was to a large extent organized in a non-sensory specific, or non-parallel, way, and the results are consistent with the hypothesis that concurrent tasks interfere with each other if they demand activation of the same part of cortex.
We investigated the spatiotemporal activation pattern, produced by one visual stimulus, across cerebral cortical regions in awake monkeys. Laminar profiles of postsynaptic potentials and action potentials were indexed with current source density (CSD) and multiunit activity profiles respectively. Locally, we found contrasting activation profiles in dorsal and ventral stream areas. The former, like V1 and V2, exhibit a 'feedforward' profile, with excitation beginning at the depth of Lamina 4, followed by activation of the extragranular laminae. The latter often displayed a multilaminar/columnar profile, with initial responses distributed across the laminae and reflecting modulation rather than excitation; CSD components were accompanied by either no changes or by suppression of action potentials. System-wide, response latencies indicated a large dorsal/ventral stream latency advantage, which generalizes across a wide range of methods. This predicts a specific temporal ordering of dorsal and ventral stream components of visual analysis, as well as specific patterns of dorsal-ventral stream interaction. Our findings support a hierarchical model of cortical organization that combines serial and parallel elements. Critical in such a model is the recognition that processing within a location typically entails multiple temporal components or 'waves' of activity, driven by input conveyed over heterogeneous pathways from the retina.
5-Fluorouracil (5-FU) and human recombinant gamma-interferon (gamma-IFN) were found to increase the expression of carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) in human cancer cells in vitro. In the present study, the antimetabolite was associated with gamma-IFN or folinic acid (FA), a biochemical modulator of cellular metabolism of 5-FU, able to increase its antineoplastic activity. Treatment of two human colon cancer cell lines (HT-29 and WiDr) with 5-FU + gamma-IFN resulted in an increase of CEA expression higher than that obtainable with both agents alone, although no synergistic effects were obtained. This was demonstrated in terms of: (a) mRNA transcripts (HT-29); (b) cytoplasm and membrane CEA protein levels detected by Western blot analysis (HT-29); and (c) plasma membrane reactivity determined by flow cytometry analysis (HT-29 and WiDr). Moreover, 5-FU + gamma-IFN increased HLA class I molecules in the HT-29 cell membrane over that obtainable with gamma-IFN alone. In contrast, both agents did not induce the expression of the costimulatory molecule B7-1. Treatment with FA enhanced the antitumor effect of 5-FU but not its ability to augment CEA expression. This suggests that the FA-sensitive biochemical mechanism of action of 5-FU is not involved in its effect on CEA expression. In vivo studies showed, for the first time, that 5-FU, alone or combined with gamma-IFN, increases the amount of CEA protein over controls, either in cancer cells or in peripheral blood of nude mice bearing HT-29 cells. These results could be of potential diagnostic and/or therapeutic value when CEA protein is the target of humoral or cell-mediated immunity.
Blood samples for determination of the biochemical alcohol markers carbohydrate-deficient transferrin (CDT) in serum, gamma-glutamyltransferase (GGT) in serum, and erythrocyte mean corpuscular volume (MCV) were collected once every 1-2 weeks over approximately 5 months from 10 female and 4 male teetotalers. Mean values for serum CDT (using the CDTect assay) ranged from 9.9 to 29.4 units/L (median, 14.2 units/L), and the highest results were obtained in the women. The mean values for serum GGT ranged from 0.15 to 0.49 microkat/L (median, 0.30 microkat/L, or 18 U/L) except for one woman with a very high mean of 3.07 microkat/L. For MCV, the mean values ranged from 79.5 to 91.5 fL. Two women showed several CDT results above the upper reference limit (mean values, 27.6 and 29.4 units/L, respectively); however, their GGT and MCV values fell within the reference intervals. One of these women exhibited an increased total transferrin concentration (mean value, 5.38 g/L), which was possibly related to the use of oral contraceptives and/or a low serum iron concentration. When the CDTect value was expressed relative to total transferrin, a ratio within the reference interval was observed for this woman but not for the other woman with increased CDTect values. The present study demonstrates a considerable variation between individuals in CDT, GGT, and MCV without drinking any alcohol. The results also show that these baseline values are fairly constant over time within the same individual.
Melancholic depressive patients referred for ECT were randomized to receive either low dose (n = 20) or high dose (n = 20) stimulus applied bifrontotemporally. The two stimulus groups were comparable on the clinical variables. The EEG seizure was recorded on two channels (right and left frontal), digitized, coded and analyzed offline without knowledge of ECT parameters. EEG seizure was of comparable duration in the two stimulus (high dose and low dose) groups. A new composite measure, Strength-Symmetry-Index (SSI), based on strength and symmetry of seizure EEG was computed using fractal geometry. The SSI of the early-seizure was higher in the high dose than in the low dose ECT group. In a stepwise, logistic regression model, this variable contributed to 65% with correct classification of high dose and low dose ECT seizures.
1. The central pattern generator (CPG) for respiration is located in the brainstem and produces rhythmic synaptic drive for motoneurons controlling respiratory muscles. Based on respiratory nerve discharge, the respiratory cycle can be divided into three phases: inspiration, postinspiration and stage 2 expiration. 2. Six basic types of respiratory neuron participate in respiratory rhythmogenesis. Their firing and membrane potential patterns are locked to different phases of the respiratory cycle. 3. In adult mammals, respiratory neurons are subject to excitatory and inhibitory synaptic inputs and show extensive synaptic interconnections that are mainly inhibitory. There are differences in the relative importance of excitatory and inhibitory synaptic drives and the neurotransmitters involved in respiratory rhythmogenesis in neonates compared with adults. 4. Respiratory neurons possess a number of intrinsic membrane currents that may be involved in central pattern generation, including low- and high-voltage-activated calcium, potassium, calcium-dependent potassium, sodium and mixed cationic currents. More quantitative information is needed about the distribution and characteristics of these ionic currents if we are to understand rhythmogenesis. 5. The two main theories for the origin of respiratory rhythm are those of pacemaker neuron-driven and synaptic network-driven CPG. Evidence derived from in vivo and in vitro experiments exists to support both of these theories. There may be a significant switch in the underlying mechanism driving the respiratory CPG during postnatal development.
On 296 blood samples obtained from 22 bone marrow and 21 kidney transplanted patients, the concomitant measurements of polyclonal and monoclonal cyclosporine (CsA) were performed and the relative polyclonal/monoclonal (P/M) ratios were calculated. Biochemical profiles of kidney and liver functions were also determined in all patients. For each type of transplant, biochemical data were divided into two subgroups on the basis of P/M ratio: A) data obtained in patients with P/M ratio &gt; 3.0; B) data obtained in patients with P/M ratio &lt; or = 3.0. While in kidney transplanted patients no difference of biochemical profiles was found between two subgroups, in bone marrow transplant recipients the subgroup A showed a worsening of hepatic function parameters as compared to subgroup B. Therefore, it appears that P/M ratio could represent in bone marrow transplantation an index of hepatic CsA toxicity.
Recent findings have clarified the mechanisms regulating the night- and pineal-specific transcription of serotonin N-acetyltransferase, the rate-limiting enzyme in melatonin formation. Norepinephrine, acting via beta-adrenoceptors and cAMP at night, stimulates the cAMP response element binding protein, which turns on the transcription of N-acetyltransferase and inducible cAMP early repressor, the major inhibitor of N-acetyltransferase transcription. The tissue-specific gene expression within the pineal gland and retina derives, in part, from a pineal/retina-specific transcription factor, cone-rod homeobox protein, which binds to a pineal regulatory element. This regulatory element is present in promoters of pineal-selective enzymes, such as N-acetyltransferase, hydroxyindole-O-methyl transferase, and pineal night-specific ATPase.
Many aspects of brain development depend on experience. Because the major macro-morphological events of brain development occur over the first 2-3 years of postnatal life, this time period can be considered both a period of opportunity as well as a period of vulnerability. In this paper we describe how experience with stress early in life can have a negative impact on certain aspects of brain development, and specifically, those neural circuits that underlie memory. We also describe the effects of traumatic events on the development of the neural basis of memory. In support of our argument, we review the literature on brain, stress, and memory in the context of development. Based on this review, we suggest that the developing brain is particularly vulnerable to the harmful physiological effects of stress, which in turn has the potential to lead to impairments in memory. Unfortunately, there are few empirical data that directly address this hypothesis. In this context we offer a number of suggestions for future research.
When neuroblasts divide, prospero protein and mRNA segregate asymmetrically into the daughter neuroblast and sibling ganglion mother cell. miranda is known to localize prospero protein to the basal cell cortex of neuroblasts while the staufen RNA-binding protein mediates prospero mRNA localization. Here we show that miranda is required for asymmetric staufen localization in neuroblasts. Analyses using miranda mutants reveal that prospero and staufen interact with miranda under the same cell-cycle-dependent control. miranda thus acts to partition both prospero protein and mRNA. Furthermore, miranda localizes prospero and staufen to the basolateral cortex in dividing epithelial cells, which express the three proteins prior to neurogenesis. Our observations suggest that the epithelial cell and neuroblast (both of epithelial origin) share the same molecular machinery for creating cellular asymmetry.
The mature vertebrate retina contains seven major cell types that develop from an apparently homogenous population of precursor cells. Clonal analyses have suggested that environmental influences play a major role in specifying retinal cell identity. Fibroblast growth factor-2 is present in the developing retina and regulates the survival, proliferation and differentiation of developing retinal cells in culture. Here we have tested whether fibroblast growth factor receptor signaling biases retinal cell fate decisions in vivo. Fibroblast growth factor receptors were inhibited in retinal precursors in Xenopus embryos by expressing a dominant negative form of the receptor, XFD. Dorsal animal blastomeres that give rise to the retina were injected with cDNA expression constructs for XFD and a control non-functional mutant receptor, D48, and the cell fates of transgene-expressing cells in the mature retina determined. Fibroblast growth factor receptor blockade results in almost a 50% loss of photoreceptors and amacrine cells, and a concurrent 3.5-fold increase in Mller glia, suggesting a shift towards a Mller cell fate in the absence of a fibroblast growth factor receptor signal. Inhibition of non-fibroblast-growth-factor-mediated receptor signaling with a third mutant receptor, HAVO, alters cell fate in an opposite manner. These results suggest that it is the balance of fibroblast growth factor and non-fibroblast growth factor ligand signals that influences retinal cell genesis.
LIM domains are found in a variety of proteins, including cytoplasmic and nuclear LIM-only proteins, LIM-homeodomain (LIM-HD) transcription factors and LIM-kinases. Although the ability of LIM domains to interact with other proteins has been clearly established in vitro and in cultured cells, their in vivo function is unknown. Here we use Drosophila to test the roles of the LIM domains of the LIM-HD family member Apterous (Ap) in wing and nervous system development. Using a rescuing assay of the ap mutant phenotype, we have found that the LIM domains are essential for Ap function. Furthermore, expression of LIM domains alone can act in a dominant-negative fashion to disrupt Ap function. The Ap LIM domains can be replaced by those of another family member to generate normal wing structure, but LIM domains are not interchangeable during axon pathfinding of the Ap neurons. This suggests that the Ap LIM domains mediate different protein interactions in different developmental processes, and that LIM domains can participate in conferring specificity of target gene selection.

Nicotine serves as a reinforcer and induces a robust discriminative stimulus which is primarily mediated by neuronal nicotinic receptors. As a secondary effect of nicotinic stimulation, nicotine elicits an enhanced release of the biogenic amine neurotransmitters dopamine, norepinephrine and serotonin. In particular, compounds with dopaminergic activity have been reported to modify both the reinforcing and discriminative stimulus properties of nicotine. The present study examined a number of dopaminergic, noradrenergic and serotonergic compounds for their effectiveness in reproducing or modifying the stimulus properties of nicotine in rats. The non-selective dopamine agonists amphetamine, cocaine and apomorphine produced partial substitution for nicotine, while the selective D2/D3 agonists bromocriptine and 7-OH-DPAT and the dopamine autoreceptor antagonist (+)-AJ-76 had little effect. The substitution of amphetamine for nicotine was not blocked by haloperidol, suggesting a minimal role for D2 receptors in the nicotine-like discriminative effects of stimulants. The selective D1 agonist SKF 81,297 produced partial substitution for nicotine (45% maximum), but further experiments with the D1 antagonist SCH 23,390 and with rats trained in a three-way discrimination procedure failed to support a primary role for this receptor in the substitution of dopaminergic drugs for nicotine. Finally, tests of compounds with effects on noradrenergic or serotonergic neurotransmission did not yield strong evidence for the involvement of these systems. Taken together, these data support earlier suggestions that activation of dopamine receptor subtypes plays a role in the nicotine-like stimulus properties of abused stimulants, but do not clearly identify a single subtype that is uniquely responsible.

Neurophysiological techniques for the evaluation of pain in humans have made important advances in the last decade. A number of features of neuroanatomy and physiology of nociception qualifies pain as a multidimensional phenomenon which is rather unique among the sensory systems and which poses a number of technical and procedural requirements for its appropriate diagnostic assessment. Various stimulation techniques to induce defined pain in humans and used in combination with the methodology of evoked electrical brain potentials and magnetic fields are presented. Most recent knowledge gathered from scalp topography and dipole source analysis of pain-relevant evoked potentials and fields is discussed. Particular emphasis is put upon laser-evoked potentials and their application for diagnosis, pathophysiological description and monitoring of patients with neurological disorders and abnormal pain states. Future perspectives in this growing field of research are discussed briefly.
Synaptophysin (SN) is a synaptic-vesicle-associated membrane protein whose presence is indicative of intact, functional synapses. This study examines the presence of SN in pituitary gland innervation after neurotoxin-induced denervation followed by reinnervation. Immunostaining of rat pituitary neurointermediate lobe tissue for SN reveals a pattern of dot-like densities in the intermediate lobe and intensely stained dispersed regions in the neural lobe of normal animals. In rats treated with 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA), a catecholamine neurotoxin, by peripheral injection, there is a significant depletion of the SN immunostaining in the intermediate lobe, as well as a significant reduction of SN immunoreactivity in the neural lobe, in animals studied 1 wk after drug treatment, with computer analysis of the tissue sections. At 3 wk after 6-OHDA, there is a partial recovery of immunoreactivity for SN in the neural lobe in many tissue sections, and the intermediate lobe also contains only relatively sparse staining for the synaptic protein. Computer analysis revealed that at 3 wk after 6-OHDA, both lobes still had reduced SN immunoreactivity, but the difference in levels measured did not achieve statistical significance. These results contrast with the prior finding of significant recovery of immunoreactivity for GAP-43, a growth and regeneration-associated protein, in intermediate lobe innervation of rats treated with the same drug regimen. We suggest that 6-OHDA treatment damages synaptic vesicle integrity in both the intermediate and neural lobes of the pituitary, and that recovery is in progress, but not complete at 3 wk after the drug is administered.
To elucidate the role of vasomotor sympathetic nerve activity response to lower-body positive pressure (LBPP), muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) along with blood pressure, electrocardiogram, transthoracic impedance and echocardiogram were recorded in ten healthy young men at 10, 20 and 30 mmHg LBPP in the supine position. We found that MSNA was suppressed (27%) at both 10 and 20 mmHg LBPP but tended to increase at 30 mmHg LBPP. Mean arterial pressure (11%) and total peripheral resistance (36%) increased despite a tendency toward decreased stroke volume and cardiac output at 30 mmHg LBPP. Heart rate remained unchanged. The left atrial dimension significantly increased during 10-30 mmHg LBPP, indicating an increase in cardiac filling. These results suggest that LBPP at levels less than 20 mmHg suppressed MSNA by the translocation of blood from the lower body to the thorax, thus stimulating the cardiopulmonary baroreceptors which in turn inhibited vasomotor sympathetic nerve activity. However, LBPP at 30 mmHg tended to enhance MSNA through the activation of intramuscular (pressure-sensitive) receptors which could counteract the inhibitory effect of cardiopulmonary baroreflexes on MSNA.
This study aimed to elucidate the effects of linear acceleration on muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) in humans. Eight healthy young male volunteers were seated in a linear accelerator (sled) during the recording of their electrocardiogram, blood pressure with the Finapres, thoracic impedance and respiration curve. MSNA was recorded from the tibial nerve by microneurography. At a fixed distance of sled movements in an anteroposterior direction, eight modes of stimulation with peak accelerations at 0.05, 0.10, 0.15, and 0.20 G (gravity) in sinusoidal or step mode were applied to each subject. Each movement was repeated for 5 cycles. Both the total activity and the burst rate of MSNA decreased during acceleration, and the level of the decrease was proportional to the level of the acceleration, whereas the average heart rate, thoracic impedance and mean arterial pressure did not change significantly. These results suggests that moderate linear acceleration may suppress MSNA in humans.
The isolated and confined environment of a laboratory setting was used as one of the analogous environments of long-term manned spaceflight. This setting has more advantages than the natural one in that the behavioral variables can be easily controlled. Thus, a hyperbaric chamber was used in this experiment. The subjects were five men from 22- to 26-years old who had never met before the experiment. Over a total 5-day isolation and confinement period as well as 2-day pre- and post-isolation periods, the subjects were given different kinds of physiological and psychological tasks. During these periods their behavior and communications were recorded in order to observe when the formation of a group begins and how it forms and functions. The formation of a sub-group of three men was observed on the third day of isolation, showing strong reciprocal connections among these subjects who developed bonds that were quite stable. It is, however, not known how this sub-group functioned within the large group, since the experimental period was possibly too short.
The immortalization of progenitor cells from embryonic murine hippocampus using oncogene-carrying retroviral vectors is described. Use of a vector encoding the oncogene v-myc results in lines of nestin-positive progenitor cells. Limited differentiation ensues if the cells are cultured in the presence of dibutyryl cyclic adenosine monophosphate. In contrast, use of a vector in which the extracellular portion of the epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor is fused to the neu tyrosine kinase generates lines of pluripotential nestin-positive progenitor cells, which differentiate upon withdrawal of EGF into neurons and glia. Differentiated neurons expressing action potentials and neurotransmitter receptors make up a high proportion of the cells. These cell lines are useful tools to investigate the characteristics of differentiating neurons and glia, as well as to screen neuroactive drugs. This work has been reported in preliminary form as an abstract (1996 Society for Neuroscience Abstract, #606.20, p. 1537).
In order to reassess the role of nerve growth factor (NGF) on rat basal forebrain cholinergic neurons (BFCNs) survival and/or phenotype maturation during the early postnatal life, we immunoneutralized NGF in vivo. Hybridoma cells producing the neutralizing anti-NGF monoclonal antibody alphaD11 were implanted in the lateral ventricle of the rat at different postnatal ages (P2, P8 and P15) and the effects on the number and the soma size of cholinacetyltransferase (ChAT) positive neurons were analysed 1, 2 or 3 weeks after the injection. A marked decrease in the number and in the soma size of BFCNs was observed implanting hybridoma cells at P2 and performing the analysis 1 week later. These effects are reversed 3 weeks after the implant of hybridoma cells at P2. At this time point, the levels of alphaD11 antibodies in the brain parenchyma are still in a vast molar excess over endogenous NGF. No effects on BFCNs were observed implanting alphaD11 cells at P15 while LGN neurons showed marked shrinkage. Our results demonstrate that the reduction in the number of ChAT-positive neurons during the first two postnatal weeks of anti-NGF treatment is not due to cell death. We conclude that NGF is not a survival factor for BFCNs, and that the influence of NGF on BFCNs cell maturation during the first 2 postnatal weeks is transient and reversible. Our results on tyrosine kinase (Trk) coexpression, suggest that NGF may cooperate with other factors in the cholinergic phenotype differentiation and maintenance after the second postnatal week.
The effects of excitatory classical conditioning on cytochrome oxidase activity in the central auditory system were investigated using quantitative histochemistry. Rats in the conditioned group were trained with consistent pairings of a compound conditional stimulus (a tone and a light) with a mild footshock, to elicit conditioned suppression of drinking. Rats in the pseudorandom group were exposed to pseudorandom presentations of the same tone, light and shock stimuli without consistent pairings. Untrained rats in a naive group did not receive presentations of the experimental stimuli. The findings demonstrated that auditory fear conditioning modifies the metabolic neuronal responses of the auditory system, supporting the hypothesis that sensory neurons are responsive to behavioural stimulus properties acquired by learning. There was a clear distinction between thalamocortical and lower divisions of the auditory system based on the differences in metabolic activity evoked by classical conditioning, which lead to an overt learned behavioural response versus pseudorandom stimulus presentations, which lead to behavioural habituation. Increases in cytochrome oxidase activity indicated that tone processing is enhanced during associative conditioning at upper auditory structures (medial geniculate nucleus and secondary auditory cortices). In contrast, metabolic activation of lower auditory structures (cochlear nuclei and inferior colliculus) in response to the pseudorandom presentation of the experimental stimuli suggest that these areas may be activated during habituation to tone stimuli. Together these findings show that mapping the metabolic activity of cytochrome oxidase with quantitative histochemistry can be successfully used to map regional long-lasting effects of learning on brain systems.
In this study, we evaluated the frequency of formation of new lesions on brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) from patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (MS) and defined the relative contributions of unenhanced and enhanced MRI. Every 4 weeks for 3 months, dual-echo and postcontrast T1-weighted (5 min after the injection of 0.3 mmol/kg gadolinium-DTPA) scans were obtained from 28 patients with relapsing-remitting MS. New lesions were defined as those present on dual-echo and/or postcontrast T1-weighted scans but with no corresponding MRI abnormalities on any of the preceding scans. A total of 111 newly formed lesions were detected during the follow-up on dual-echo and postcontrast T1-weighted scans (i.e., an average of 1.3 lesions per patient per month). Ninety-eight (88%) of such lesions were seen on both dual-echo and postcontrast T1-weighted scans, whilst 13 (12%) were seen only with one of the two techniques: 9 only on dual-echo and 4 only on postcontrast scans. Five of the 98 new lesions seen by both techniques were seen by postcontrast scans 1 month before their appearance on dual-echo scans. Our study suggests that both dual-echo and postcontrast T1-weighted scans are useful to detect newly formed lesions in patients with MS. This is of importance when using MRI to monitor the efficacy of treatments which may halt MS lesion formation.
Patients with bilateral vestibular loss have difficulty maintaining balance without stepping when standing in tandem, on compliant surfaces, across narrow beams, or on one foot, especially with eyes closed. Normal individuals (with no sensory impairment) maintain balance in these tasks by employing quick, active hip rotation (a &quot;hip strategy&quot;). The absence of a hip strategy in vestibular patients responding to translations of a short support surface has previously been taken as evidence that the use of hip strategy requires an intact vestibular system. However, many tasks requiring hip strategy alter one or a combination of important system characteristics, such as initial state of the body (tandem stance), dynamics (compliant surfaces), or biomechanical limits of stability (narrow beams). Therefore, the balance deficit in these tasks may result from a failure to account for these support surface alterations when planning and executing sensorimotor responses. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that vestibular information is critical to trigger a hip strategy even on an unaltered support surface, which imposes no changes on the system characteristics. We recorded the postural responses of vestibular patients and control subjects with eyes closed to rearward support surface translations of varying velocity, in erect stance on a firm, flat surface. Subjects were instructed to maintain balance without stepping, if possible. Faster translation velocities (25 cm/s or more) produced a consistent pattern of early hip torque (first 400 ms) in control subjects (i.e., a hip strategy). Most of the patients with bilateral vestibular loss responded to the same translation velocities with similar torques. Contrary to our hypothesis, we conclude that vestibular function is not necessary to trigger a hip strategy. We postulate, therefore, that the balance deficit previously observed in vestibular patients during postural tasks that elicit a hip strategy may have been due to the sensorimotor consequences of the system alterations imposed by the postural tasks used in those studies. Preliminary results from two younger patients who lost vestibular function as infants indicate that age, duration of vestibular loss, and/or the timing of the loss may also be factors that can influence the use of hip strategy as a rapid postural response.
The competence of neurons to regenerate depends on their ability to initiate a program of gene expression supporting growth and on the growth-permissive properties of glial cells in the distal stump of the injured nerve. Most studies on intrinsic molecular mechanisms governing peripheral nerve regeneration have focussed on the lesion-induced expression of proteins promoting growth cone motility, neurite extension, and adhesion. However, little is known about the expression of intrinsic chemorepulsive proteins and their receptors, after peripheral nerve injury and during nerve regeneration. Here we report the effect of peripheral nerve injury on the expression of the genes encoding sema III/coll-1 and its receptor neuropilin-1, which are known to be expressed in adult sensory and/or motor neurons. We have shown that peripheral nerve crush or transection results in a decline in sema III/coll-1 mRNA expression in injured spinal and facial motor neurons. This decline was paralleled by an induction in the expression of the growth-associated protein B-50/GAP-43. As sema III/coll-1 returned to normal levels following nerve crush, B-50/GAP-43 returned to precrush levels. Thus, the decline in sema III/coll-1 mRNA coincided with sensory and motor neuron regeneration. A sustained decline in sema III/coll-1 mRNA expression was found when regeneration was blocked by nerve transection and ligation. No changes were observed in neuropilin-1 mRNA levels after injury to sensory and motor neurons, suggesting that regenerating peripheral neurons continue to be sensitive to sema III/coll-1. Therefore we propose that a decreased expression of sema III/coll-1, one of the major ligands for neuropilin-1, during peripheral nerve regeneration is an important molecular event that is part of the adaptive response related to the success of regenerative neurite outgrowth occurring following peripheral nerve injury.
Spinal cord transection at midthoracic level leads to an immediate loss of hindlimb motor function as well as to a progressive degeneration of descending and ascending spinal cord pathways. Thoracic spinal cord in unlesioned control rats and in rats 2 to 6 months after complete midthoracic transection were imaged in vivo using an ultrahigh-field (4.7 T) magnetic resonance spectrometer. High-resolution spin-echo and inversion-recovery pulse sequences were employed. In addition, the apparent diffusion coefficients (ADCs) in longitudinal and transverse directions of the spinal cord were determined. Anatomical MRI findings were confirmed in histological spinal cord tissue preparations. In healthy spinal cord, gray and white matter were easily discerned in proton density-weighted images. An infield resolution of max. 76 micrometers per pixel was achieved. In animals with chronic spinal cord transection changes in gray-white matter structure and contrast were observed toward the cut end. The spinal cord stumps showed a tapering off. This coincided with changes in the longitudinal/transverse ADC ratio. Fluid-filled cysts were found in most cases at the distal end of the rostral stump. The gap between the stumps contained richly vascularized scar tissue. Additional pathologic changes included intramedullary microcysts, vertebral dislocations, and in one animal compression of the spinal cord. In conclusion, MRI was found to be a useful method for in vivo investigation of anatomical and physiological changes following spinal cord transection and to estimate the degree of neural degeneration. In addition, MRI allows the description of the accurate extension of fluid spaces (e.g., cysts) and of water diffusion characteristics which cannot be achieved by other means in vivo.
The dopamine (DA) uptake/clearance properties of the DA transporter (DAT) in the core and shell of the nucleus accumbens were measured using in vivo electrochemical recordings. Calibrated amounts of a DA solution were pressure-ejected from a micropipette/electrode assembly placed in the core or shell of the nucleus accumbens in anesthetized male Fischer 344 rats. Initial studies in the two brain regions revealed that the core and shell have different DA clearance properties as measured by the extracellular DA signal amplitudes, clearance times, and clearance rates. Although the same number of picomoles of DA were applied, DA clearance signals recorded in shell had significantly greater amplitudes but faster clearance rates than those recorded in the core. Systemic administration of 20 mg/kg cocaine, a monoamine transporter inhibitor, greatly increased the signal amplitude from the locally applied DA in both the core and shell. Signal amplitudes were increased to a greater extent in the shell, compared with the core, after cocaine administration. However, cocaine affected the clearance time of DA only in the core and the DA clearance rate only in the shell. Taken together with previously reported data, these studies further support differential activity of the DAT in the core versus shell subregions of the nucleus accumbens. In addition, these data indicate that DATs are more sensitive to the effects of psychomotor stimulants, such as cocaine, in the shell of the nucleus accumbens.
Duloxetine is a potent inhibitor of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) and noradrenaline (NE) uptake in vitro and in vivo and is 3- to 5-times more effective at inhibiting 5-HT uptake. Duloxetine is a weak inhibitor of dopamine (DA) uptake and the binding of radioligands to neurotransmitter receptors. Upon administration of duloxetine in vivo, the inhibitory effects on uptake of 5-HT and NE persist for up to 8 h. Desmethylduloxetine, a potential metabolite, is also an inhibitor of 5-HT and NE uptake. Consistent with the ability to inhibit the uptake of 5-HT, duloxetine blocks p-chloroamphetamine induced depletion of mouse and rat brain 5-HT. Duloxetine also blocks the 6-hydroxydopamine induced depletion of mouse heart NE and 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) induced depletion of NE in frontal cortex but does not block the MPTP induced depletion of DA in rat striatum. Electrophysiological studies show that duloxetine decreases the activity of 5-HT neurones in dorsal raphe and at a 5-times higher dose also decreases the activity of NE neurones in the locus coeruleus. Microdialysis techniques have demonstrated that duloxetine effectively elevates extracellular 5-HT and NE levels in rat frontal cortex and hypothalamus. Antagonists at somatodendritic 5-HT(1A) autoreceptors or at presynaptic alpha(2)-adrenergic receptors could augment the duloxetine induced elevation of extracellular 5-HT, NE and DA levels. Duloxetine produces behavioural responses consistent with the enhancement of 5-HT and NE neurotransmission. Pharmacokinetic studies in healthy human volunteers show that duloxetine has a half-life of 10 - 15 h without the influence of food. In preliminary clinical trials, duloxetine has shown antidepressive effects in patients with major depression. Duloxetine offers an opportunity to utilise combined central 5-HT and NE neuronal pathways to improve the treatment of patients with major depression.
In the teleost fish, Haplochromis burtoni, gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) peptide has been localized to three distinct regions in the brain. Each GnRH population is associated with expression of a distinct cDNA as previously described. Here we report the complete genomic sequences encoding these three forms and compare their structural organization, putative regulatory elements, and expression patterns in the body. All three genes share a common structure of four exons: the first exon encodes the 5' untranslated region; the second exon encodes the signal sequence, GnRH decapeptide, and the 5' end of the GnRH-associated peptide (GAP); the third exon consists entirely of GAP coding sequence; and the fourth exon encodes the 3' end of GAP and the 3' untranslated region. Each of the three GnRH genes has been shown previously to have a distinct spatial expression pattern in the brain, and here we use reverse transcription and cDNA amplification to demonstrate that each gene is expressed in the body. The gene encoding the releasing form, Ser8GnRH, is expressed in the heart, liver, spleen, kidney, and testis, as well as in the preoptic area. The His5Trp7Tyr8GnRH gene is expressed in the testis as well as in the midbrain. The Trp7Leu8GnRH gene is expressed in the testis and the terminal nerve area. We examined the 500 bp upstream of exon 1 in all three H. burtoni genes and identified putative binding sites for glucocorticoid receptor, androgen receptor, and progesterone receptor, as well as the transcription factors Ap-1 and Sp-1. The genomic sequence encoding the terminal nerve form of GnRH (i.e., Trp7Leu8GnRH) in H. burtoni is remarkably similar to that encoding the presumed releasing form of GnRH in salmonids, especially in the 3' intergenic region. Taken together with phylogenetic and mRNA localization data in salmonids, these data suggest that the gene encoding the releasing form of GnRH in salmonids may not yet be described.
Both the Entamoeba histolytica lectin, a virulence factor for the causative agent of amebiasis, and the mammalian hepatic lectin bind to N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc) and galactose (Gal) nonreducing termini on oligosaccharides, with preference for GalNAc. Polyvalent GalNAc-derivatized neoglycoproteins have &gt;1000-fold enhanced binding affinity for both lectins (Adler,P., Wood,S.J., Lee,Y.C., Lee,R.T., Petri,W.A.,Jr. and Schnaar,R.L.,1995, J. Biol. Chem ., 270, 5164-5171). Substructural specificity studies revealed that the 3-OH and 4-OH groups of GalNAc were required for binding to both lectins, whereas only the E.histolytica lectin required the 6-OH group. Whereas GalNAc binds with 4-fold lower affinity to the E.histolytica lectin than to the mammalian hepatic lectin, galactosamine and N-benzoyl galactosamine bind with higher affinity to the E. histolytica lectin. Therefore, a synthetic scheme for converting polyamine carriers to poly-N-acyl galactosamine derivatives (linked through the galactosamine primary amino group) was developed to test whether such ligands would bind the E.histolytica lectin with high specificity and high affinity. Contrary to expectations, polyvalent derivatives including GalN6lys5, GalN4desmosine, GalN4StarburstTMdendrimer, and GalN8StarburstTMdendrimer demonstrated highly enhanced binding to the mammalian hepatic lectin but little or no enhancement of binding to the E.histolytica lectin. We propose that the mammalian hepatic lectin binds with greatest affinity to GalNAc &quot;miniclusters,&quot; which mimic branched termini of N-linked oligosaccharides, whereas the E.histolytica lectin binds most effectively to &quot;maxiclusters,&quot; which may mimic more widely spaced GalNAc residues on intestinal mucins.

The duration of formic acid (FA) pretreatment clearly influences the extent of beta-amyloid immunoreactivity in brain tissue and consequently also the results of quantitative analysis. All of the parameters studied (area fraction, density, and mean size of beta-amyloid deposits) significantly increased with pretreatment of up to 6 h with beta-amyloid antibody obtained from Dako. Longer exposure to FA only marginally increased the mean size of the single deposits, whereas the area fraction and the density of beta-amyloid deposits slightly decreased. Optimal 6-h pretreatment (or even longer) did not reveal any beta-amyloid aggregates in those cases where none was seen with shorter durations of FA pretreatment. Similar results were obtained with beta-amyloid antibody 4G8 obtained from Senetek, whereas beta-amyloid antibody 6E10 was shown to be less dependent upon FA pretreatment. In conclusion, we recommend that the FA pretreatment time should be studied and optimized for each antibody used and always be described when the quantitative analysis of beta-amyloid load is reported.
This work consolidates data about these interesting organic crystals of vertebrate inner ears. It addresses 5 aspects of inner ear otoliths not completely understood to date: 1) embryological data that explains the formation of the crystals, 2) the significance of the organic and the inorganic phase of the otolith and the changing patterns of otoconia formation along the evolutionary tree, 3) otoliths contribution for detecting linear acceleration, 4) the effect that altered gravity and aminoglycosides have on the development and adult shape of the crystals, and the evolutionary significance of a changing shape of the crystals from primitive forms (lamprey) to high vertebrate birds and mammals is discussed, 5) functional attributes of the otolithic organs and morphological modifications of the otoliths by physical and chemical insults are presented with an extensive discussion of the most relevant literature published and available to us.
This study investigated the role of the estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha) in mediating performance on a spatial discrimination task, the Morris water maze. Spatial discrimination on this water escape task was examined in eight groups of gonadectomized mice. Male and female wild-type (WT) and littermate mice lacking functional copies of the ERalpha gene (ERalphaKO), were treated with estradiol benzoate (EB) or sesame oil vehicle. Subjects were trained on the water escape task over a 4-day period (four trials per block, three blocks per day). Latency to find the hidden platform was measured. Only female WT mice treated with EB failed to learn this spatial discrimination task. All males, WT and ERalphaKO treated with EB or oil exhibited decreased latencies across blocks of trials, WT females treated with oil, and ERalphaKO females, regardless of treatment, learned the spatial discrimination task. In order to eliminate motivational or sensory-motor impairments as a factor in describing the poor spatial discrimination performance of WT females treated with EB, the cue version of the water maze task was employed. Results from the cue phase of the task indicate that EB and oil-treated WT females exhibited a similar decrease in escape latencies across blocks of trials, indicating good cue discrimination performance. Taken together, the results indicate that ERalpha activation impairs acquisition of spatial discrimination of the water escape task, but not cue discrimination, in female mice. Because ligand-bound ERalpha appears to operate differently in male and female mice we hypothesize that the ability of ERalpha to affect learning is organized during development.
The presentation of antigenic peptides by major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II to CD4+ T cells is crucial to initiate immune responses. We developed a new system for delivery of an antigenic peptide to the MHC class II pathway, using the invariant chain (Ii). We designed a mutated human p33-form Ii, CLIP-substituted Ii, in which streptococcal M12p55-68 (RDLEQAYNELSGEA) was substituted for CLIP (class II associated invariant chain peptide). We examined the peptide presenting function of this construct, in comparison with the previously reported C-terminal fused Ii, in which a cathepsin cleavage site and M12p54-68 was ligated to the C-terminus of Ii. Mouse L cell transfectants expressing either of these two mutated Ii along with HLA-DR4 could process and present M12p55-68 to the peptide specific and DR4-restricted CD4+ T cell clone. CLIP-substituted Ii was much more efficient in antigen presentation than was the C-terminal fused Ii. Similar to the wild-type Ii, the CLIP-substituted Ii was associated intracellularly with DR4 molecules. These results indicate that the peptide substituted for CLIP of Ii p33 bound to the groove of DR molecules in the same manner as CLIP and it was preferentially presented to the CD4+ T cell clone in the absence of HLA-DM molecules. This system may prove useful for immunotherapy with DNA vaccines or for construction of an antigen presenting cell library with diverse peptides.
This meeting was the second in four months to cover the role of P2 purinoreceptors in tissue function and pathophysiology, the previous being the Sixth International Symposium on Adenosine and Adenine Nucleotides held in Ferrara, Italy in May. There was, therefore, a paucity of new data. A major theme of the meeting was the complexity of purinergic signaling due to ATP degradation to adenosine by ectonucleotidase activity. The characterization of receptor function was limited by the purported selectivity and potency of available antagonists, but some new P2Y1 receptor antagonists were presented. An interesting rumor emanating from the main IUPHAR meeting was that Pfizer had developed a P2X7 receptor knockout mouse that cannot produce IL-1beta, supporting the hypothesis, described below, that ATP acting via this receptor is critical in activating ICE (interleukin-1beta-converting enzyme). Approximately 120 people attended the meeting and 48 posters were presented.
Communication between neurones in the central nervous system occurs at specialized synaptic contacts. The strength of a synaptic signal is precisely regulated, and modification of synaptic strength is important in complex brain functions such as learning, and in the formation of appropriate neural maps during development. The fundamental building block of synaptic signalling is the post-synaptic current generated in response to the pre-synaptic release of a quantum of neurotransmitter. The present short review examines the factors that determine the quantal post-synaptic current, and provides direct evidence from a recent study in the author's laboratory that regulation of quantal size is important during development of excitatory transmission in the auditory system.
During development, neurons die if they do not receive neurotrophin support from the target cells they are innervating. Neurotrophins are delivered from the target to the cell bodies of the innervating neurons by interacting with specific receptors located on the nerve terminals and then together are retrogradely transported to the cell body. This process consists of a number of distinct events including endocytosis of neurotrophin and its receptor into coated vesicles; vesicle sorting followed by retrograde axonal transport to the cell body, where interaction of the activated receptor initiates a signalling cascade at the cell body that causes the survival response. It has recently been shown that the signalling molecules associated with retrograde transport differ between neuronal populations. In sympathetic but not sensory neurons, a wortmannin-sensitive molecule (phosphatidylinositol kinase) is essential for the retrograde transport of neurotrophins. In sensory but not sympathetic neurons, a rapamycin-sensitive molecule (pp70S6K) is associated with retrograde transport of neurotrophins. This is strong evidence that sympathetic and sensory neurons utilize different signalling pathways to perform the same cellular function; retrograde transport. These findings may provide clues to understanding neurological diseases, such as motor neuron disease, in which axonal transport is impaired specifically in motor neurons.


It is well known that individuals positive for particular HLA-class II alleles show high risks for the development of Takayasu arteritis and other diseases caused by immunological disorders such as autoimmune diseases and allergies. HLA class II molecules present antigenic peptides to CD4+ T cells. Their extensive polymorphism affects the structures of peptides bound to HLA class II molecules to create individual differences in immune responses to antigenic peptides. To better understand the mechanisms for association between HLA class II alleles and susceptibility to autoimmune diseases, it is important to identify self-peptides presented by disease-susceptible HLA class II molecules and triggering disease-causative T cells. Many autoimmune diseases are observed in all ethnic groups, whereas the incidences of diseases, clinical manifestations and disease-susceptible HLA class II alleles are different among various ethnic groups for some autoimmune diseases. These phenomena suggest that differences in autoimmune self-peptide(s) in the context of disease-susceptible HLA class II molecules may cause these differences. Therefore, comparisons among disease-susceptible HLA class II alleles, autoimmune self-peptides and clinical manifestations of autoimmune diseases in different ethnic groups would be helpful in determining the pathogenesis of the diseases. In this paper, we describe our recent findings on: (1) the uniqueness of both clinical manifestations and HLA-linked genetic background of Asian-type (optico-spinal form) multiple sclerosis; (2) the structural characteristics of peptides bound to HLA-DQ molecules susceptible to insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus; (3) the identification of a disease-related autoantigenic peptide presented by disease-susceptible HLA-DQ molecules in Asians-specific infant onset myasthenia gravis; and (4) a manipulation of human T cell response by altered peptide ligands, as a possible candidate for new and antigen-specific immuno-suppressive therapy against autoimmune diseases.
Postnatal changes of nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) alpha 2, alpha 3, alpha 4, alpha 7 and beta 2 subunits mRNAs were investigated in rat brain using ribonuclease protection assay. Multiple developmental patterns were observed: (1) transient expression during the first few postnatal weeks; alpha 2 in the hippocampus and brain stem, alpha 3 in the striatum, cerebellum and cortex, alpha 4 in the hippocampus, striatum and cerebellum, alpha 7 in the cerebellum and beta 2 in the striatum. (2) Constant expression across development; alpha 2 and alpha 3 in the thalamus, alpha 4 in the cortex, thalamus and brain stem, alpha 7 in the thalamus and brain stem and beta 2 in all brain regions except striatum. (3) Non-detection across development; alpha 2 in the cortex, striatum and cerebellum. (4) Increase with age; alpha 7 in the cortex and hippocampus. (5) Bell-shaped development; alpha 7 in the striatum. Postnatal changes of nAChR isoforms in different brain regions of rat were investigated by receptor binding assays. The developmental patterns of [3H]epibatidine and (-)-[3H]nicotine binding sites were similar to each other in each brain region, but different from that of [3H] alpha-bungarotoxin binding sites. No obvious correlation was observed between the developmental patterns of [3H] alpha-bungarotoxin, [3H]epibatidine and (-)-[3H]nicotine binding sites and corresponding subunits mRNAs. These results indicate that multiple mechanisms are involved in changes of gene expression of nAChRs subunits in the brain of developing rats.

Human CD4+ T-cells recognize antigenic peptides in the context of human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class II molecules and produce various lymphokines to proliferate and activate other cells. It was once considered that the T-cell response is an all or nothing type event, but recent studies have clearly indicated that T-cells show many different types of activation in recognition of altered ligands for T-cell receptors (TCR). In this review, we summarize our recent findings on the human CD4+ T-cell response to altered peptide ligands (APL); peptides carrying single residue substitutions in antigenic peptides. We observed the following: 1) TCR antagonism for T-cell clones reactive to non-self or autoantigenic peptides, 2) partial activation (agonism) without cell proliferation, including production of lymphokines and increases in cell size, and in expression levels of several cell surface proteins or survival time in the absence of antigenic stimulus, 3) augmentation in cell proliferation and production of interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) and granulocyte monocyte colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF), 4) augmentation of interleukin (IL)-12 production by antigen presenting cell (APC) and the subsequent augmented production of IFN-gamma by T-cells. This information provides basic knowledge regarding the characteristics of T-cell recognition of antigens and the subsequent activation, and a novel method for modification of human T-cell responses by altered peptide ligands (APLs), as a possible candidate for antigen-specific immunopotentiating or immunosuppressive therapy against autoimmune diseases, allergies, infectious diseases and malignant tumors.


Microembolic signals (MES) have been described in patients with different types of prosthetic valves. The aim of our study was to compare prevalence of MES in patients with mono-leaflet and bi-leaflet valves, and to correlate them with different clinical and echocardiographic parameters. We evaluated 42 patients, 15 with mono-leaflet and 27 with bi-leaflet valves, with 30-minute bilateral simultaneous transcranial Doppler monitoring for the identification of MES. All patients performed blood testing for international normalized ratio (INR), color-coded duplex of supra-aortic vessels, and echocardiography. Eighteen patients (43%) showed MES; 61% of MES were detected bilaterally, 17% only on the left and 22% only on the right middle cerebral artery (MCA), with no interhemispheric difference. MES did not correlate with patient's age, echocardiographic parameters, INR, presence of atrial fibrillation, or site of valve replacement. One (7%) of the 15 patients with mono-leaflet valves had MES, as opposed to 17 (63%) of the 27 with bileaflet valves (p=0.0003). Patients with bileaflet valves and MES had valves of older implantation and, only for aortic valves, larger valve size.

Fifty-two caregivers for demented and 66 non-caregivers for non-demented elderly were investigated both within a gender and between genders. All participants were relatives and a burden questionnaire was used. The results showed that there was not always a difference between the caregivers for demented and the non-caregivers for non-demented elderly which may indicate that being a relative, even to a non-demented elderly, has obviously its own problems and importance. However, results showed more significant differences between female caregivers and female non-caregivers than between male caregivers and male non-caregivers, with females caring for a demented elderly suffering most strain. Their strain was exhibited by health problems, conflicts in the family, strained relations with family and others, a less positive outlook and limits in social support because of the caregiving situation. When investigating the group of male caregivers and male non-caregivers, it was found that males caring for a demented elderly person experienced a lack of positive outlook and a need for social support. The elderly person's residence in the group of caregivers for demented elderly people and in the group of non-caregivers for non-demented elderly people did not, however, appear to indicate any significant differences.
We hypothesized that one could assess total body mineral (TBM) and bone mineral content (BMC) from measurements of body density and bioelectrical response spectroscopy (BRS)-determined total body water by using a three-compartment (3C) model. We compared TBM and BMC computed from measurements of water (2H2O dilution or BRS) and body density (underwater weighing) with [4-compartment (4C)] and without (3C) mineral (dual X-ray absorptiometry) in 15 women and 16 men. BRS used multifrequency or single-frequency estimates of water. Mean differences between the 3C and 4C models ranged from -6.1 to 2.2%. Correlations between models were 0.82-0.91. Standard errors of the estimate of 8.5-9.3% were within the range of those previously reported, i.e., 4.9-13%. Use of BRS did not significantly decrease the strength of the correlations between the models. A significant mean difference (only in women) was found only with 3C single-frequency BRS estimates of TBM and BMC. We concluded that investigators can assess TBM and BMC 3C multifrequency BRS estimates in men and women.
In this study, we purified and characterized the voltage-dependent anion channel (VDAC) from the Torpedo electric organ. Using immunogold labeling, VDAC was colocalized with the voltage-gated Ca2+ channel in the synaptic plasma membrane. By immunoblot analysis, five protein bands in synaptosomes isolated from the Torpedo electric organ cross reacted with two monoclonal anti-VDAC antibody. No more than about 7 to 10% mitochondrial contains could be detected in any synaptosomal membrane preparation tested. This was estimated by comparing the specific activity in mitochondria and synaptosomes of succinate-cytochrome-c oxidoreductase and antimycin-insensitive NADH-cytochrome-c oxidoreductase activities; mitochondrial inner and outer membrane marker enzymes, respectively. [14C]DCCD (dicyclohexylcarbodiimide), which specifically label mitochondrial VDAC, labeled four 30-35 kDa protein bands that were found to interact with the anti-VDAC antibody. The distribution of the Torpedo VDAC protein bands was different among membranes isolated from various tissues. VDAC was purified from synaptosomes and a separation between two of the proteins was obtained. The two purified proteins were characterized by their single channel activity and partial amino acid sequences. Upon reconstitution into a planar lipid bilayer, the purified VDACs showed voltage-dependent channel activity with properties similar to those of purified mitochondrial VDAC. Amino acid sequence of four peptides, derived from VDAC band II, exhibited high homology to sequences present in human VDACI (98%), VDAC2 (91.8%), and VDAC3 (90%), while another peptide, derived from VDAC band III, showed lower homology to either VDAC1 (88.4%) or VDAC2 (79%). Two more peptides show high homology to the sequence present in mouse brain VDAC3 (100 and 78%). In addition, we demonstrate the translocation of ATP into synaptosomes, which is inhibited by DCCD and by the anion transport inhibitor DIDS. The possible function of VDAC in the synaptic plasma membrane is discussed.
Circadian rhythms in Drosophila depend on a molecular feedback loop that includes products of the period (per) and timeless (tim) genes. RNA and protein products of both genes cycle with a circadian period and the proteins feedback to inhibit expression of their own mRNAs. While cyclic expression of PER protein appears to be necessary for rhythmic behavior, the function of per RNA cycling is somewhat controversial. Rhythmic transcription accounts, in part, for cycling of per RNA, but it is clear now that posttranscriptional mechanisms also contribute to the cyclic expression of both per RNA and protein. As posttranscriptional mechanisms, such as mRNA stability and translation, are frequently mediated by 3' untranslated regions (UTR) of genes, the authors examined the role of this region of per in the regulation of circadian rhythms. Removal of most of per's 3' UTR had a small effect on the function of a per transgene. However, replacement of per's 3'UTR with corresponding sequences of the tubulin gene led to the rescue of behavioral rhythms in per01 flies with periods that were 3 h shorter than those generated by a wild-type per transgene. The hybrid RNA cycles, but the protein produced by it accumulates earlier in a day-night cycle than the PER protein produced by a control per transgene carrying its own 3'UTR, perhaps because the tubulin sequences counteract the effect of destabilizing elements in the per RNA at earlier points in the circadian cycle. These data indicate that the appropriate regulation of per RNA expression, effected by transcriptional as well as posttranscriptional mechanisms, is critical for the determination of circadian period.
Postural and gait instabilities in astronauts returning from spaceflight are thought to result from in-flight adaptation of central nervous system processing of sensory inputs from the vestibular, proprioceptive, and visual systems. We hypothesized that reorganization of posture control relying on these multiple inputs would result in not only greater amounts of sway, but also changes in interjoint coordination. We tested this hypothesis by examining the multivariate characteristics of postural sway and comparing the postural control gain used for maintenance of upright stance during the altered sensory conditions of the Sensory Organization Test (EquiTest, Neurocom Intl.). We used the covariance of hip and ankle kinematics as a measure of joint motion and interjoint coordination, and then utilized discriminant analysis to further examine these characteristics in a group of 10 first-time astronauts. In five of the six conditions, the most important difference was an increased relative utilization of the hip strategy, which would not be evident using conventional balance measures such as peak or root-mean-square sway. This finding was supported by indications of increased hip torque gains relative to lower extremity and neck motion in at least four conditions (p &lt; 0.05). In contrast, ankle torque gains to these motions did not appear to change. These results suggest that after spaceflight, astronauts exhibit significant multivariate changes in multijoint coordination, of which increased sway is only one component. These changes are consistent with reweighting of vestibular inputs and changes in control strategy in a multivariable control system.
Effects of order of presentation within the Trail Making and Stroop tests were investigated by comparing 50 consecutive patients receiving detailed neuropsychological assessment given the components of each test in standard order with 50 given them in reverse. Groups were well matched on a wide range of demographic and neuropsychological variables. The only significant group difference in mean scores for the test components and derived ratios and differences, a higher Trail Making Test Part B/Part A ratio in the 'reverse' group than in the 'standard' group, was most easily explained in terms of a slight effect of practice in visual scanning. Greater variance in the Stroop Test Part C score and its derivatives in the standard group may have been attributable to factors other than order of presentation. Performance of these tests in patients with neurological disorders is not crucially dependent upon accumulation of proactive interference from simpler to more complex parts; the latter can reasonably be used in isolation.
Nitric oxide (NO) synthesized within mammalian sinoatrial cells has been shown to participate in cholinergic control of heart rate (HR). However, it is not known whether NO synthesized within neurons plays a role in HR regulation. HR dynamics were measured in 24 wild-type (WT) mice and 24 mice in which the gene for neuronal NO synthase (nNOS) was absent (nNOS-/- mice). Mean HR and HR variability were compared in subsets of these animals at baseline, after parasympathetic blockade with atropine (0.5 mg/kg i.p.), after beta-adrenergic blockade with propranolol (1 mg/kg i.p.), and after combined autonomic blockade. Other animals underwent pressor challenge with phenylephrine (3 mg/kg i.p.) after beta-adrenergic blockade to test for a baroreflex-mediated cardioinhibitory response. The latter experiments were then repeated after inactivation of inhibitory G proteins with pertussis toxin (PTX) (30 microgram/kg i.p.). At baseline, nNOS-/- mice had higher mean HR (711+/-8 vs. 650+/-8 bpm, P = 0.0004) and lower HR variance (424+/-70 vs. 1,112+/-174 bpm2, P = 0.001) compared with WT mice. In nNOS-/- mice, atropine administration led to a much smaller change in mean HR (-2+/-9 vs. 49+/-5 bpm, P = 0.0008) and in HR variance (64+/-24 vs. -903+/-295 bpm2, P = 0.02) than in WT mice. In contrast, propranolol administration and combined autonomic blockade led to similar changes in mean HR between the two groups. After beta-adrenergic blockade, phenylephrine injection elicited a fall in mean HR and rise in HR variance in WT mice that was partially attenuated after treatment with PTX. The response to pressor challenge in nNOS-/- mice before PTX administration was similar to that in WT mice. However, PTX-treated nNOS-/- mice had a dramatically attenuated response to phenylephrine. These findings suggest that the absence of nNOS activity leads to reduced baseline parasympathetic tone, but does not prevent baroreflex-mediated cardioinhibition unless inhibitory G proteins are also inactivated. Thus, neuronally derived NO and cardiac inhibitory G protein activity serve as parallel pathways to mediate autonomic slowing of heart rate in the mouse.
Fusiform dilatation and pseudoaneurysm formation in arteries of the circle of Willis has been reported as a complication following surgery for craniopharyngiomas through craniotomies. We present a case of anterior communicating artery pseudoaneurysm following transsphenoidal surgery for craniopharygioma in an adult.


One hundred patients who had attempted suicide before commencing lithium prophylaxis were followed up. Outcome was analyzed in terms of attempted or completed suicide after a mean of 10 years since admission to the lithium clinics. Of 10 patients who committed suicide, 9 had discontinued adequate lithium prophylaxis for a period ranging from 2 weeks to 7 years before death. Having discontinued lithium therapy was associated with suicide also in the subgroup of patients for whom lithium had not completely prevented episodes during lithium treatment. Suicide risk was 24 times as high during periods off compared with periods on adequate lithium prophylaxis. Incidence of attempting suicide was similar during the periods before receiving or after discontinuing lithium treatment, whereas it was 5 to 6 times lower during prophylaxis. Continuous and adequate lithium prophylaxis should be considered in the presence of high suicide risk, even if the prophylactic effect on the underlying mood disorder may be incomplete.
The effect of changes in static and dynamic gravity signals on the phase accuracy of the horizontal vestibulo-ocular reflex (HVOR) was studied in rats using chronically implanted scleral search coils to monitor eye movements. Rats were sinusoidally rotated using a range of different frequencies (0.035-2 Hz) in a plane which always activated the horizontal semicircular canals but in one of three different orientations with regard to gravity which differentially activated the otolith organs: 1) upright-normal static gravity signal, no dynamic otolith activation; 2) inverted-inverted static gravity signal, no dynamic otolith activation; 3) on-side-dynamic activation of the otolith organs. In the upright orientation, the HVOR shows a phase advance at 0.2 Hz and below but not at 0.5 Hz and above. Phase accuracy of the HVOR was further degraded in the inverted orientation with rats showing large phase leads at 0.2 Hz and below. In contrast, accuracy of the HVOR was significantly improved at 0.2 Hz and below in the on-side orientation with phase accurate eye movements down to the lowest frequency tested. The results further support the idea that otolith organs play an important role in VOR generation by supplementing the semicircular canals' response to angular head movements.
Investigations with crew subject participants were flown on over 40 Shuttle missions (STS-32 through STS-73). All Astronauts who flew volunteered to participate in one or more of these studies, resulting in approximately 700 individual performances or data points for the 45 Detailed Supplementary Objectives (DSOs).
We prospectively studied 266 hands in 133 patients with carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS) in order to evaluate: the incidence of bilateral CTS symptoms; correlation between severity, duration of symptoms and bilateral occurrence of CTS; agreement of clinical and neurophysiological findings; and the neurophysiological findings in asymptomatic hands in unilateral CTS. The incidence of bilateral clinical CTS in our population was 87%. Neurophysiological impairment of median nerve was observed in about half of the asymptomatic hands. Follow-up of patients with unilateral CTS showed that contralateral symptoms developed in most cases. We found a significant positive correlation of bilateral CTS with the duration of symptoms, whereas there was no correlation with the severity of symptoms. Our data suggest that bilateral impairment of median nerve is the rule in patients with CTS and probably it has been underestimated in previous studies.
The experiments in this paper were concerned with the recovery of function and ease of application of an entubulation technique using a biodegradable, controlled release glass tube (CRG) for the repair of a transected peripheral nerve. The peroneal nerves of 15 New Zealand White rabbits were repaired with either a CRG tube filled with freeze-thawed muscle, or a conventional freeze thawed muscle graft (FTMG). These were compared with controls in which a CRG was used to enclose the cut ends of a nerve separated by a 1 cm gap. Electrophysiological and morphometric assessment was carried out 6 months after repair. No statistical difference was found in any test between the FTMG and the CRG tube filled with freeze thawed muscle. The CRG tube and 1 cm gap produced inferior levels of recovery of function when compared with the other two repair groups.
Receptors for the neurotransmitter and neuroendocrine peptides, vasoactive intesinal peptide (VIP) and secretin, both belong to the Type B subfamily of G-protein-coupled receptors. This group is evolutionally as well as structurally distinct from the much larger Type A, or rhodopsin-type, subfamily. We have mapped the ligand-activating epitopes of the human VIP1 receptor by the use of hybrid receptor constructs with the human secretin receptor. Twelve chimeras were synthesized the successively replacing portions of the former receptor with corresponding portions of the latter receptor, or by interchanging the first extracellular loops. Each of the different chimeric receptor DNAs were then expressed in murine reporter cells, and their ability to activate cAMP production was investigated on stimulation with the respective natural peptide ligands. We stimulated the reporter cells with secretion or VIP following transient expression of the receptor chimeras. The experiments indicated that there are two molecular domains of importance for the recognition and activation of these peptides, namely, the inner portion of the extracellular tail and the first extracellular loop of the two receptors.
Nervous system development is &quot;activity dependent&quot;--activation of neurons controls their development, which controls their activation patterns, which will then influence their further development, and so on. A critical issue is thus the regulation of channel and receptor expression. For nerve cells, the presence of specialized Ca2+-permeable channels in the surface membrane provides a direct link between electrical activity and the intracellular Ca2+ ion concentration ([Ca2+]i), and in many instances [Ca2+]i is thought to link membrane activation and internal biosynthesis. In this context, Ca2+-permeable channels function as &quot;activity sensors,&quot; transducing membrane activation by admitting Ca2+ rapidly, locally, and proportionately. In this review, I consider the potential of [Ca2+]i to regulate channel and receptor expression. I emphasize mechanisms by which the Ca2+ concentration of the cytosol and/or the Ca2+ concentrations of membrane-delimited Ca2+ sequestering organelles may influence biosynthetic processes. Here, I use &quot;expression&quot; in the most general sense of referring to the number and location of functional channels and receptors in the plasmalemma; regulation of expression is not limited to transcriptional regulation, but further encompasses translational and posttranslational processes. At the core is the notion of regulation by patterned oscillations in cytosolic [Ca2+], and, in a synchronous or contrapuntal manner, filling and depletion of a series of Ca2+-sequestering organelles--nuclear envelope, endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi, trans-Golgi network, and secretory vesicles--that all also have critical roles in biosynthesis of membrane proteins. These structures provide both an internal Ca2+ regulation and distribution system, and a scaffold for synthesis, targeting, and insertion of channels and receptors.
Superfused cortical brain slices from neonatal rats demonstrated large increases in levels of NMR-detectable lipids after sample preparation and perfusion with standard artificial CSF. These increases were reduced by an average of 58% by perfusion with buffer with low (no added) Ca2+ or by perfusion in Ca2+-free buffer. Perfusion with buffer with elevated MgSO4 (10 mmol/L) reduced the lipid changes by 47%. A reduction of 88% was observed in samples perfused in buffer with both low Ca2+ and high Mg2+, suggesting a role for Mg2+ in reducing lipolysis distinct from its known ability to block Ca2+ influx.
To clarify mechanisms of neuronal death in the postischemic brain, we examined whether astrocytes exposed to hypoxia/reoxygenation exert a neurotoxic effect, using a coculture system. Neurons cocultured with astrocytes subjected to hypoxia/reoxygenation underwent apoptotic cell death, the effect enhanced by a combination of interleukin-1beta with hypoxia. The synergistic neurotoxic activity of hypoxia and interleukin-1beta was dependent on de novo expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and on nitric oxide (NO) production in astrocytes. Further analysis to determine the neurotoxic mechanism revealed decreased Bcl-2 and increased Bax expression together with caspase-3 activation in cortical neurons cocultured with NO-producing astrocytes. Inhibition of NO production in astrocytes by N(G)-monomethyl-L-arginine, an inhibitor of NOS, significantly inhibited neuronal death together with changes in Bcl-2 and Bax protein levels and in caspase-3-like activity. Moreover, treatment of neurons with a bax antisense oligonucleotide inhibited the caspase-3-like activation and neuronal death induced by an NO donor, sodium nitroprusside. These data suggest that NO produced by astrocytes after hypoxic insult induces apoptotic death of neurons through mechanisms involving the caspase-3 activation after down-regulation of Bcl-2 and up-regulation of Bax protein levels.
Astrocytes play a key role in the protection of neurons from excitotoxicity by taking up excess glutamate and converting it to glutamine via the enzyme glutamine synthetase. In a number of cell types, glucocorticoid hormones induce glutamine synthetase. Glucocorticoids also down-regulate many genes induced by proinflammatory cytokines. As the glucocorticoid receptor has been shown to interact with transcription factors that may also be activated by the proinflammatory cytokines interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), we hypothesized that IL-1beta or TNF-alpha might oppose the induction of glutamine synthetase by dexamethasone. Primary mouse cortical astrocytes were treated with 10(-7) M dexamethasone and doses of IL-1beta or TNF-alpha ranging from 0.02 to 5 ng/ml or 0.05 to 20 ng/ml, respectively. We found that both cytokines attenuated the dexamethasone induction of glutamine synthetase protein at 24 h and that the effect was dose-dependent. We also found that IL-1beta and TNF-alpha inhibited the induction of glutamine synthetase mRNA by dexamethasone, and that the induction of enzymatic activity was similarly prevented by IL-1beta. As glutamine synthetase can be induced by physiological levels of glucocorticoids, the release of proinflammatory cytokines following acute injury or in neurodegenerative disorders may hinder the ability of astrocytes to protect neurons from excitotoxicity.
Interferon-gamma can facilitate the spinal nociceptive flexor reflex and may elicit neuropathic pain-related behavior in rats and mice. Immunoreactivity for the interferon-gamma receptor (IFN-gamma R) occurs in the superficial layers of the dorsal horn and the lateral spinal nucleus in the rat and mouse spinal cord, as well as in subsets of neurons in the dorsal root ganglia. The aim of the present study was to examine the cellular localization and origin of the IFN-gamma R in the spinal cord. As viewed by confocal microscopy, the immunopositivity for the IFN-gamma R was co-localized with that of the presynaptic marker synaptophysin and with neuronal nitric oxide synthase in the lateral spinal nucleus, whereas only a minor overlap with these molecules was observed in laminae I and II of the dorsal horn. There was no co-localization of the IFN-gamma R with markers for astrocytes and microglial cells. Ultrastructurally, the IFN-gamma R was found predominantly in axon terminals in the lateral spinal nucleus, but at postsynaptic sites in dendrites in laminae I and II. The IFN-gamma R expressed in neurons in dorsal root ganglia was transported in axons both centrally and peripherally. Hemisection of the spinal cord caused no reduction in immunolabelling of the IFN-gamma R in the dorsal horn or the lateral spinal nucleus. Since rhizotomy does not affect the immunolabelling in the lateral spinal nucleus, our observation indicates that the presynaptic receptors in this nucleus are derived from intrinsic neurons. The localization of the IFN-gamma R in the spinal cord differed from that of the AMPA glutamate receptor subunits 2 and 3 and the substance P receptor (NK1). Our results, showing localization of IFN-gamma R to pre- and postsynaptic sites in the dorsal horn and lateral spinal nucleus indicate that IFN-gamma can modulate nociception at the spinal cord level.
The ultrastructural localization of immunoreactivity for immunoglobulin G (IgG), F(ab')2 and complement C9 was examined with preembedding immunoelectron microscopy in the hypoglossal nucleus and gracile nucleus as well as in the L4 spinal cord dorsal horn 1 week following hypoglossal or sciatic nerve transection, respectively. Only a few scattered immunoreactive profiles were observed on the unoperated side. On the operated side, IgG and F(ab')2 immunoreactivity was present in the membranes of all reactive microglial cells observed. In addition, the cell membrane of some hypoglossal motoneurons showed IgG immunoreactivity. Complement C9 immunoreactivity was present in the cytoplasm of all reactive microglial cells examined. In addition, there was diffuse C9 immunoreactivity in motoneuron perikarya ipsilateral to nerve injury as well as in cell membranes in the neuropil, some of which could be identified as neuronal. Our interpretation of these findings is (1) that peripheral nerve injury results in binding of IgG to reactive microglia, as well as to some axotomized neurons, and (2) that C9 is synthesized by reactive microglia in response to axon injury and is also associated with axotomized motoneurons. These findings suggest that IgG and complement C9 are involved in microglia-neuron interactions after peripheral nerve injury.
The finding of a mutation in the alpha-synuclein gene in a rare autosomal dominant form of idiopathic Parkinson's disease (IPD), has prompted increased interest in identifying genes that account for the more common sporadic form. A number of association studies have suggested that functional polymorphisms in genes that play a role in dopamine, drug and toxin metabolism may increase the relative risk of IPD. Unfortunately, patient numbers are often small, and the results have not been consistently reproduced. This article reviews the evidence from epidemiological, imaging and genetic studies to determine the role of genetic susceptibility in IPD and parkinsonian syndromes.
The Holmes-Adie syndrome consists of unilateral or bilateral tonic pupils with near light dissociation and tendon areflexia. It is associated with autonomic disturbances affecting sudomotor and vasomotor function. Five such patients are reported on who also had a troublesome chronic dry cough, which was of unknown aetiology and was resistant to a range of treatments. The cough may be related to involvement of afferent or efferent pathways in the vagus. Chronic cough may be an accompaniment in the Holmes-Adie syndrome, like other forms of autonomic dysfunction.





For many years, the only published criteria for the electrodiagnostic (EDX) recognition of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) were those formulated by Lambert (1957; 1969). In 1990, different EDX guidelines were incorporated in the all-inclusive diagnostic criteria formulated by a subcommittee on ALS of the World Federation of Neurology, which met in El Escorial, Spain. Unfortunately, particularly in regard to the EDX requirements, the 'El Escorial criteria' have several flaws which compromise their usefulness. These include: (1) they ignore the fact that whenever upper and lower motor neuron disorders co-exist, as they characteristically do with ALS, the motor unit potential firing pattern is controlled by the upper motor neuron lesion; (2) they markedly devalue the usefulness of detecting fasciculations and, through presumably typographical error, state that the 'absence' rather than the 'presence' of fasciculations supports the diagnosis of ALS; this view is in direct conflict with the opinions expressed by most electromyographers; (3) they contain a statement regarding how the diagnosis of ALS is confirmed by the EDX studies which is confusing and, for two of the body regions (bulbar; thoracic), unrealistic; (4) finally, many of the EDX features they listed supporting the recognition of possible LMN degeneration appear to be mislabeled, while a few features in the EDX criteria are incorrect.
Suramin is a polyanionic chemotherapeutic agent which causes severe peripheral neuropathy. The mechanisms of antineoplastic and neurotoxic activities are still poorly understood. Interference with growth factor receptor function has been suggested for suramin's chemotherapeutic function. Previous studies from our laboratory have demonstrated that suramin interfered with the function of nerve growth factor (NGF) and induced lysosomal storage defects within dorsal root ganglion neurons. Pentosan polysulfate (PPS) was used as another polyanionic agent, to compare these two cellular functions; NGF receptor interaction and disruption in glycolipid metabolism. Like suramin and NGF, PPS induced neurite outgrowth from the PC12 cell line which correlated with tyrosine phosphorylation of the high affinity NGF receptor (TrkA/gpl40) and ERK-1/MAP kinase. Ultrastructural studies of dorsal root ganglion exposed to PPS for various time periods were normal. This contrasted with suramin exposed cultures which consistently developed lamellar inclusion bodies (LIB) within 6 h. LIB formation with suramin treatment was associated with neuronal cell death, while PPS treatment did not cause any neurotoxic effects. These results indicated that PPS mimicked the effect of suramin on NGF receptors but did not cause similar accumulation of LIB. This suggested that the effect of polyanionic compounds on TrkA was not involved in LIB accumulation and subsequent induction of neurotoxicity.
To reveal contributions of different subdivisions of the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) to visuomotor behavior, segments of either layer A or the C layers were inactivated with microinjections of gamma-aminobutyric acid while cats made saccades to retinally stabilized spots of light placed either in affected regions of visual space or mirror-symmetric locations in the opposite hemifield. Inactivating layer A reduced the success rate for saccades to targets presented in affected locations from 82.4 to 26.8% while having no effect on saccades to the control hemifield. Saccades to affected sites had reduced accuracy and longer initiation latency and tended to be hypometric. In contrast, inactivating C layers did not affect performance. Data from all conditions fell along the same saccade velocity/amplitude function (&quot;main sequence&quot;), suggesting that LGN inactivations cause localization deficits, but do not interfere with saccade dynamics. Cerebral cortex is the only target of the A layers, so behavioral decrements caused by inactivating layer A must be related to changes in cortical activity. Inactivating layer A substantially reduces the activity of large subsets of corticotectal cells in areas 17 and 18, whereas few corticotectal cells depend on C layers for visually driven activity. The parallels between these behavioral and electrophysiological data along with the central role of the superior colliculus in saccadic eye movements suggests that the corticotectal pathway is involved in both deficits and remaining capacities resulting from blockade of layer A.
To characterize muscle synergy organization underlying multidirectional control of stance posture, electromyographic activity was recorded from 11 lower limb and trunk muscles of 7 healthy subjects while they were subjected to horizontal surface translations in 12 different, randomly presented directions. The latency and amplitude of muscle responses were quantified for each perturbation direction. Tuning curves for each muscle were examined to relate the amplitude of the muscle response to the direction of surface translation. The latencies of responses for the shank and thigh muscles were constant, regardless of perturbation direction. In contrast, the latencies for another thigh [tensor fascia latae (TFL)] and two trunk muscles [rectus abdominis (RAB) and erector spinae (ESP)] were either early or late, depending on the perturbation direction. These three muscles with direction-specific latencies may play different roles in postural control as prime movers or as stabilizers for different translation directions, depending on the timing of recruitment. Most muscle tuning curves were within one quadrant, having one direction of maximal activity, generally in response to diagonal surface translations. Two trunk muscles (RAB and ESP) and two lower limb muscles (semimembranosus and peroneus longus) had bipolar tuning curves, with two different directions of maximal activity, suggesting that these muscle can play different roles as part of different synergies, depending on translation direction. Muscle tuning curves tended to group into one of three regions in response to 12 different directions of perturbations. Two muscles [rectus femoris (RFM) and TFL] were maximally active in response to lateral surface translations. The remaining muscles clustered into one of two diagonal regions. The diagonal regions corresponded to the two primary directions of active horizontal force vector responses. Two muscles (RFM and adductor longus) were maximally active orthogonal to their predicted direction of maximal activity based on anatomic orientation. Some of the muscles in each of the synergic regions were not anatomic synergists, suggesting a complex central organization for recruitment of muscles. The results suggest that neither a simple reflex mechanism nor a fixed muscle synergy organization is adequate to explain the muscle activation patterns observed in this postural control task. Our results are consistent with a centrally mediated pattern of muscle latencies combined with peripheral influence on muscle magnitude. We suggest that a flexible continuum of muscle synergies that are modifiable in a task-dependent manner be used for equilibrium control in stance.
Arginine vasopressin (AVP) receptors are expressed early in the developing spinal cord. To characterize AVP-induced conductances in lower thoracic sympathetic preganglionic (SPN) and other lateral horn neurons, we used patch-clamp recording techniques in neonatal (11-21 days) rat spinal cord slices. Most (90%) of 273 neurons, including all 68 SPNs, responded to AVP with membrane depolarization and/or a V1 receptor-mediated, dose-dependent (0.01-1.0 microM) and tetrodotoxin (TTX)-resistant inward current. A role for G-proteins was indicated by persistence of this inward current after intracellular dialysis with GTP-gamma-S or GMP-PNP, its marked reduction with GDP-beta-S, and significant reduction, but not abolition, after preincubation with pertussis toxin or in the presence of N-ethylmaleimide. Analysis of individual current-voltage (I-V) relationships in 57 cells indicated the presence of two different membrane conductances. In 21 cells, net AVP-induced currents reversed around -103 mV, reflecting reduction in one or more barium-sensitive potassium conductances; in 12 cells, net AVP-induced current reversed around -40 mV and was not significantly sensitive to several potassium channel blockers including barium, tetraethylammonium chloride (TEA), 4-aminopyridine (4AP), cesium, or glibenclamide, suggesting increase in a nonselective cationic conductance that was separate from Ih; in 24 cells where I-V lines shifted in parallel, AVP-induced inward currents were significantly greater and probably involved both conductances. These data indicate that SPNs and a majority of unidentified neonatal lateral horn neurons possess functional G-protein-coupled V1-type vasopressin receptors. The wide distribution of AVP receptors in neonatal spinal lateral column cells suggests a role that may extend beyond involvement in regulation of autonomic nervous system function.
Nucleus HVc of the songbird is a distinct forebrain region that is essential for song production and shows selective responses to complex auditory stimuli. Two neuronal populations within HVc give rise to its efferent projections. One projection, to the robust nucleus of the archistriatum (RA), serves as the primary motor pathway for song production, and can also carry auditory information to RA. The other projection of HVc begins a pathway through the anterior forebrain, (area X --&gt; medial portion of the dorsolateral nucleus of the thalamus (DLM) --&gt; lateral portion of the magnocellular nucleus of the anterior neostriatum (L-MAN) --&gt; RA) that is crucial for song learning but, although active during singing, is not essential for adult song production. To test whether these different projection neuron classes have different functional properties, we recorded intracellularly from neurons in nucleus HVc in brain slices. We observed at least three classes of neuron based on intrinsic physiological and pharmacological properties as well as on synaptic inputs. We also examined the morphological properties of the cells by filling recorded neurons with neurobiotin. The different physiological cell types correspond to separate populations based on their soma size, dendritic extent, and axonal projection. Thus HVc neurons projecting to area X have large somata, show little spike-frequency adaptation, a hyperpolarizing response to the metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) agonist (1S,3R)-trans-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (ACPD), and exhibit a slow inhibitory postsynaptic potential (IPSP) following tetanic stimulation. Those HVc neurons projecting to motor nucleus RA have smaller somata, show strong accommodation, are not consistently hyperpolarized by ACPD, and exhibit no slow IPSP. A third, rarely recorded class of neurons fire in a sustained fashion at very high-frequency and may be interneurons. Thus the neuronal classes within HVc have different functional properties, which may be important for carrying specific information to their postsynaptic targets.
Paired-pulse plasticity is typically used to study the mechanisms underlying synaptic transmission and modulation. An important question relates to whether, under physiological conditions in which various opposing synaptic properties are acting in parallel, the net effect is facilitatory or depressive, that is, whether cells further or closer to threshold. For example, does the net sum of paired-pulse facilitation (PPF) of excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs), paired-pulse depression (PPD) of inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs), and the hyperpolarizing slow IPSP result in depression or facilitation? Here we examine how different time-dependent properties act in parallel and examine the contribution of gamma-aminobutyric acid-B (GABAB) receptors that mediate two opposing processes, the slow IPSP and PPD of the fast IPSP. Using intracellular recordings from rat CA3 hippocampal neurons and L-II/III auditory cortex neurons, we examined the postsynaptic responses to paired-pulse stimulation (with intervals between 50 and 400 ms) of the Schaffer collaterals and white matter, respectively. Changes in the amplitude, time-to-peak (TTP), and slope of each EPSP were analyzed before and after application of the GABAB antagonist CGP-55845. In both CA3 and L-II/III neurons the peak amplitude of the second EPSP was generally depressed (further from threshold) compared with the first at the longer intervals; however, these EPSPs were generally broader and exhibited a longer TTP that could result in facilitation by enhancing temporal summation. At the short intervals CA3 neurons exhibited facilitation of the peak EPSP amplitude in the absence and presence of CGP-55845. In contrast, on average L-II/III cells did not exhibit facilitation at any interval, in the absence or presence of CGP-55845. CGP-55845 generally &quot;erased&quot; short-term plasticity, equalizing the peak amplitude and TTP of the first and second EPSPs at longer intervals in the hippocampus and auditory cortex. These results show that it is necessary to consider all time-dependent properties to determine whether facilitation or depression will dominate under intact pharmacological conditions. Furthermore our results suggest that GABAB-dependent properties may be the major contributor to short-term plasticity on the time scale of a few hundred milliseconds and are consistent with the hypothesis that the balance of different time-dependent processes can modulate the state of networks in a complex manner and could contribute to the generation of temporally sensitive neural responses.
Stimulation of afferent fibers with current pulse trains has been reported to induce long-term potentiation (LTP) in piriform cortex in vitro but not in vivo. LTP has been observed in vivo only when trains are paired with behavioral reinforcement and as a consequence of kindled epileptogenesis. This study was undertaken in the urethan-anesthetized rat to determine if the reported failures to observe pulse-train evoked LTP in vivo may be related to a lesser persistence rather than lack of occurrence, if disinhibition might facilitate induction, and to examine the nature of the relationship between seizure activity and LTP. Stimulation of afferent fibers in the lateral olfactory tract with theta-burst trains under control conditions potentiated the monosynaptic field excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) by approximately the same extent (20.3 +/- 2%; n = 12) as reported for the slice. However, in contrast to the slice, potentiation in vivo decayed to a low level within 1-2 h after induction (70% loss in 1.5 h, on average). The N-methyl--aspartate (NMDA)-receptor antagonists -APV and MK-801 blocked the induction of this decremental potentiation. Pharmacological reduction of gamma-aminobutyric acid-mediated inhibition at the recording site did not increase the duration of potentiation. In contrast, theta-burst stimulation applied after recovery from a period of epileptiform bursting induced stable NMDA-dependent potentiation. Mean increase in the population EPSP was approximately the same as under control conditions (21 +/- 2%; n = 6), but in five of six experiments there was little or no decay in potentiation for the duration of the monitoring period (&lt;/=6 h). It is concluded that seizure activity has an enabling action on the induction of persistent synaptic potentiation by stimulus trains that bypasses the need for behavioral reinforcement.
The authors examined 65 patients with Alzheimer's disease for delusions and explored the relationship of delusions with regional cerebral glucose metabolism determined by [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose PET. In patients with delusions (n = 26), normalized glucose metabolism was significantly increased in the left inferior temporal gyrus and significantly decreased in the left medial occipital region as compared with those without delusions (n = 39). The two groups were similar in age, sex, and dementia severity. These results suggest that delusions in Alzheimer's disease are attributable to a dysfunction in specific brain areas rather than a simple reaction to intellectual deficits.
Tst-1/SCIP/Oct-6, a POU domain transcription factor, is transiently expressed by developing Schwann cells and is required for their normal development into a myelinating phenotype. In tst-1/scip/oct-6-null sciatic nerves, Schwann cells are transiently arrested at the &quot;promyelinating&quot; stage, when they have a one-to-one relationship with an axon but before they have elaborated a myelin sheath. To determine when Schwann cells express Tst-1/SCIP/Oct-6, we examined beta-galactosidase (beta-gal) expression in heterozygous tst-1/scip/oct-6 mice, in which one copy of the tst-1/scip/oct-6 gene has been replaced with the LacZ gene. beta-Gal expression from the LacZ gene seems to parallel Tst-1/SCIP/Oct-6 expression from the endogenous tst-1/scip/oct-6 gene in developing and regenerating sciatic nerves. Furthermore, electron microscopic examination of 5bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-beta-D-galactopyranoside- (X-gal) and halogenated indolyl-beta-D-galactoside- (Bluo-gal) stained nerves showed that promyelinating Schwann cells express the highest levels of beta-gal, both in developing and in regenerating nerves. Thus, the expression of beta-gal, a surrogate marker of Tst-1/SCIP/Oct-6, peaks at the same stage of Schwann cell development at which development is arrested in tst-1/scip/oct-6-null mice, indicating that Tst-1/SCIP/Oct-6 has a critical role in promyelinating Schwann cells.
The tachykinin substance P modulates the lamprey locomotor network by increasing the frequency of NMDA-evoked ventral root bursts and by making the burst activity more regular. These effects can last in excess of 24 hr. In this paper, the effects of substance P on the synaptic and cellular properties of motor neurons and identified network interneurons have been examined. Substance P potentiated the amplitude of monosynaptic glutamatergic inputs from excitatory interneurons and reticulospinal axons. The amplitude and frequency of miniature EPSPs was increased, suggesting that the synaptic modulation was mediated presynaptically and postsynaptically. The postsynaptic modulation was caused by a specific effect of substance P on the NMDA component of the synaptic input, whereas the presynaptic component was calcium-independent. Substance P did not affect monosynaptic glycinergic inputs from lateral interneurons, crossed inhibitory interneurons, or ipsilateral segmental interneurons or postsynaptic GABAA or GABAB responses, suggesting that it has little effect on inhibitory synaptic transmission. At the cellular level, substance P increased synaptic inputs, resulting in membrane potential oscillations in motor neurons, crossed caudal interneurons, lateral interneurons, and excitatory interneurons. The spiking in response to depolarizing current pulses was increased in motor neurons, lateral interneurons, and excitatory interneurons, but usually was reduced in crossed inhibitory interneurons. Substance P reduced the calcium-dependent afterhyperpolarization after an action potential in motor neurons and lateral interneurons, but did not affect this conductance in excitatory or crossed inhibitory interneurons. The relevance of these cellular and synaptic changes to the modulation of the locomotor network is discussed.
Axon regeneration requires that injured neurons reinitiate long-distance growth and upregulate specific genes. To address the question of whether inhibitory environmental cues along the axon could exert a negative, tonic downregulation of growth-associated genes, we have examined adult rat Purkinje cells, which are endowed with poor regenerative capabilities. First we have compared their response to axotomy with that of neurons of the inferior olive, lateral reticular nucleus, and deep cerebellar nuclei, all of which vigorously regenerate into growth-permissive transplants. These injured neurons upregulate the transcription factors c-Jun and JunD, GAP-43, and NADPH diaphorase. In contrast, most axotomized Purkinje cells fail to express any of these markers, showing that the strength of this response parallels the regenerative potential of the examined neuron populations. However, strong upregulation of the same genes can be induced in Purkinje cells after colchicine injection into the uninjured adult cerebellum, indicating that their expression could be controlled by retrograde signals. To assess whether myelin-associated neurite growth inhibitory proteins contribute to this regulation, we applied the neutralizing antibodies IN-1 against one of the main inhibitory components of central myelin (NI-250) either in vivo or in vitro to organotypic cerebellar cultures. Application of IN-1 antibodies induces the upregulation of c-Jun, JunD, and NADPH diaphorase in Purkinje cells, showing that their expression is suppressed constitutively by myelin-associated neurite growth inhibitors. Thus, the inhibitory activity of the IN-1 antigen on axon growth is not restricted to the control of growth cone motility but also involves a retrograde regulation of gene expression in adult central neurons.
Proteins that interact with both cytoskeletal and membrane components are candidates to modulate membrane trafficking. The tumor suppressor proteins neurofibromin (NF1) and adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) both bind to microtubules and interact with membrane-associated proteins. The effects of recombinant NF1 and APC fragments on vesicle motility were evaluated by measuring fast axonal transport along microtubules in axoplasm from squid giant axons. APC4 (amino acids 1034-2844) reduced only anterograde movements, whereas APC2 (aa 1034-2130) or APC3 (aa 2130-2844) reduced both anterograde and retrograde transport. NF1 had no effect on organelle movement in either direction. Because APC contains multiple cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) consensus phosphorylation motifs, the kinase inhibitor olomoucine was examined. At concentrations in which olomoucine is specific for cyclin-dependent kinases (5 microM), it reduced only anterograde transport, whereas anterograde and retrograde movement were both affected at concentrations at which other kinases are inhibited as well (50 microM). Both anterograde and retrograde transport also were inhibited by histone H1 and KSPXK peptides, substrates for proline-directed kinases, including CDKs. Our data suggest that CDK-like axonal kinases modulate fast anterograde transport and that other axonal kinases may be involved in modulating retrograde transport. The specific effect of APC4 on anterograde transport suggests a model in which the binding of APC to microtubules may limit the activity of axonal CDK kinase or kinases in restricted domains, thereby affecting organelle transport.
Step hyperpolarizations evoked slowly activating, noninactivating, and slowly deactivating inward currents from membrane patches recorded in the cell-attached patch configuration from the soma and apical dendrites of hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons. The density of these hyperpolarization-activated currents (Ih) increased over sixfold from soma to distal dendrites. Activation curves demonstrate that a significant fraction of Ih channels is active near rest and that the range is hyperpolarized relatively more in the distal dendrites. Ih activation and deactivation kinetics are voltage-and temperature-dependent, with time constants of activation and deactivation decreasing with hyperpolarization and depolarization, respectively. Ih demonstrated a mixed Na+-K+ conductance and was sensitive to low concentrations of external CsCl. Dual whole-cell recordings revealed regional differences in input resistance (Rin) and membrane polarization rates (taumem) across the somatodendritic axis that are attributable to the spatial gradient of Ih channels. As a result of these membrane effects the propagation of subthreshold voltage transients is directionally specific. The elevated dendritic Ih density decreases EPSP amplitude and duration and reduces the time window over which temporal summation takes place. The backpropagation of action potentials into the dendritic arborization was impacted only slightly by dendritic Ih, with the most consistent effect being a decrease in dendritic action potential duration and an increase in afterhyperpolarization. Overall, Ih acts to dampen dendritic excitability, but its largest impact is on the subthreshold range of membrane potentials where the integration of inhibitory and excitatory synaptic inputs takes place.
A computer program, BrainView, is presented which has been developed to reconstruct, visualize, and evaluate three dimensional (3D) biological and medical imaging data, such as images from histological sections, confocal microscopy, or magnetic resonance tomography. The program allows the simultaneous display of three orthogonal sectional planes, i.e. the horizontal, frontal, and sagittal planes, of reconstructed data and to move interactively through the brain to optimally assess the 3D data set. Furthermore, any arbitrary sectioning plane through a data set can be visualized. Implemented warping algorithms allow the geometric normalization of data sets of different animals, modalities or developmental stages as a preprocessing for the comparative evaluation of the data. For a quantitative analysis, data sets can be segmented based on equal grey levels and the corresponding equidensities were calculated. The program works on Apple-Macintosh computers and has a user-friendly graphical interface. The BrainView program is discussed in comparison to related programs.
This report describes how certain modifications of the Ribonuclease (RNase) protection assay may increase its efficiency by decreasing the time and cost of the procedure without compromising reliability. We show that, under the experimental conditions tested, the RNA samples can be precipitated by a solution of Tri Reagent in ethanol immediately following the RNase digestion step. Drying the samples under vacuum before dissolving them in the gel loading buffer improves the consistency of the assay as compared to air drying. Although these modifications are applicable to the RNase protection assay in general, we present an example that used a multiprobe set we developed and have used effectively in the analysis of cytokine mRNA regulation in the brain.
In this study we present a fast and simple technique to decerebrate rats. By injecting polyvinylsiloxane (PVS) into both common carotid arteries we occluded the circle of Willis and all cerebral arteries, thereby completely interrupting the blood supply to the cerebrum. High viscosity PVS was used so that it only entered the large arteries, and did not pass into the capillary beds. This procedure reliably resulted in an anemic decerebration, without interfering with the blood supply to the brainstem. Long-term survival was achieved by reducing intracranial pressure by the application of steroids and/or opening the skull.
We have developed an on-line archive of neuronal geometry to encourage the use of realistic dendritic structures in morphometry and for neuronal modeling, located at web address www.neuro.soton.ac.uk. Initially we have included full three-dimensional representations of 87 neurons from the hippocampus, obtained following intracellular staining with biocytin and reconstruction using Neurolucida. The archive system includes a structure editor for correcting any departures from valid branching geometry and which allows simple errors in the digitisation to be corrected. The editor employs a platform-independent file format which enforces the constraints that there should be no isolated branches and no closed loops. It also incorporates software for interconversion between the archive format and those used by various neuronal reconstruction and modelling packages. The raw data from digitisation software can be included in the archive as well as edited reconstructions and any further information available. Cross-referenced tables and indexes are updated automatically and are sorted according to a number of fields including the cell type, contributor, submission date and published reference. Both the archive and the structure editor should facilitate the quantitative use of full three-dimensional reconstructions of neurons from the hippocampus and other brain regions.
Studies of postnatal neurogenesis have benefited from the use of a relatively non-invasive method for chronic delivery of bioactive substances to a restricted area of cortex. This method consists of the implantation of an Elvax polymer microsource of active substances close to the targeted brain surface. Receptor ligands, as well as macromolecules such as proteins, peptides and enzymes have been shown to be released by the implants in a sustained manner over weeks. Here we describe the kinetics and immunoreactivity of different immunoglobulins released in vitro and in vivo by Elvax polymer. In vitro, the immunoglobulins first diffuse during a burst phase from the pore network of the polymer matrix. Release continues during a slow phase depending on loading, porosity and volume of the matrix but also on intrinsic properties of immunoglobulins. Elvax microsources loaded either with anti-TAG-1 or with anti-HNK-1 antibodies according to the release data in vitro, are implanted on the posterior cerebellar cortex of postnatal rats during the period when the targeted antigens are expressed by the differentiating cells. After several days, the released immunoreactive antibodies are located at the antigenic sites within the cerebellar cortex close to the implants. The sustained local delivery of immunoglobulins using the Elvax implant method allows access to cell surface and matrix molecules and thereby to the mechanisms they control during postnatal neurogenesis.
The documentation of patient care is a critical nursing function. In addition to confirming that the nurse has practiced within the standards of care, the documentation is intensely scrutinized by those making payment and legal decisions. With the stroke of a pen or the tap of a keyboard the nurse records a fact or observation that will forever be a part of the data base. That data base may be used to determine benefits, allocate resources, settle legal arguments and even weigh criminal justice. Charting on the patient's record is both a privilege and a responsibility. It is not to be taken lightly. Every effort should be made to write from the perspective of a neutral reporter. The scope of documentation should be comprehensive and relevant. Observations should include the realms of psychosocial and emotional concerns as well as the physical. It is not necessary to make judgements or draw conclusions about the observations charted. It is enough to record pertinent assessments, actions and outcomes. It is from a database with these characteristics that we may be assured we are practicing in an ethical and responsible manner.

Activated brain microglia play a pivotal role in inflammatory and degenerative disorders, mediating immune function and producing toxic and trophic agents. We previously reported that microglia express neurotrophins and that neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) increases microglial proliferation and phagocytosis, processes associated with cellular activation. However, mechanisms regulating responsiveness to NT-3 and expression of NT-3 in activated microglia remain undefined. To investigate mechanisms governing microglial responsiveness to neurotrophins, we determined whether microglia express trk C, the high-affinity receptor for NT-3, and whether the inflammatory agent lipopolysaccharide (LPS) regulates receptor expression. Trk C mRNA was expressed by unstimulated microglia, and both trk C mRNA and protein were dramatically increased by LPS. In contrast, expression of trk A, the high-affinity receptor for nerve growth factor (NGF), was down-regulated by LPS. Consequently, the same stimulus differentially influences responsiveness of microglia to distinct trophins. In addition, LPS induced microglial NT-3 expression, suggesting that increases in both the ligand and receptor modulate NT-3 effects on microglia. Regulation was specific, since brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and NT-4/5 expression were unaltered by LPS. In sum, our findings raise the possibility that microglial NT-3 regulates their response to inflammation through autocrine mechanisms: LPS modulates both trk C and NT-3 which, in turn, regulate microglial function.
High voltage calcium channels are implicated in nociceptive transmission after nerve injury, capsaicin or formalin injection. The purpose of this study was to investigate the role of calcium channels in secondary heat hyperalgesia associated with acute joint inflammation. After induction of acute inflammation (knee joint injection of kaolin and carrageenan), decreased paw withdrawal latency (PWL) to radiant heat (i.e., secondary heat hyperalgesia), increased guarding of the limb and increased joint circumference occurs. Spinal administration (through a microdialysis fiber placed in dorsal horn) of an N-type calcium channel blocker (MVIIA, SNX 111, ziconotide, 0.001-0.1 mM), before induction of inflammation, prevents the decrease in PWL. Treatment with SNX 111 4 hr after inflammation reverses heat hyperalgesia. A small reduction in spontaneous pain-related behaviors (guarding of the limb) occurs after pre- or post-treatment with SNX 111. Spinal blockade of P/Q-type calcium channels (with omega-agatoxin IVA) had no effect on the decrease in PWL to radiant heat when administered after induction of inflammation. However, pre-treatment with omega-agatoxin IVA prevents secondary heat hyperalgesia. omega-Agatoxin IVA has no effect on spontaneous pain-related behaviors whether administered before or after induction of inflammation. In contrast, pre or post-treatment with nifedipine (L-type calcium channel blocker, 0.01-1.0 mM), had no effect on heat hyperalgesia or spontaneous pain-related behaviors induced by acute inflammation. There were no differences in joint circumference between groups with any treatment. Thus, N-type calcium channels contribute to both the development and maintenance of secondary heat hyperalgesia while P-type calcium channels are only involved during development of hyperalgesia.
The compound, LY368975 ((R)-thionisoxetine) is a potent and selective inhibitor of the norepinephrine (NE) reuptake site. We evaluated the in vivo properties of LY368975 in various animal models. In mice, LY368975 prevented heart NE depletion by 6-hydroxydopamine with an ED50 of 1.22 mg/kg. In rats, orally administered LY368975 inhibited 3H-NE uptake into hypothalamic synaptosomes ex vivo with an ED50 of 2.5 mg/kg and 3H-tomoxetine binding to the NE transporter with an ED50 of 2.7 mg/kg. When rats were deprived of food for 18 hr, 10 mg/kg LY368975 was able to suppress food intake 1, 2 and 4 hr after reintroduction of the feed. In nonfasted rats trained to drink sweetened condensed milk, LY368975 produced a dose-dependent reduction in consumption with a 44% decrease at 3 mg/kg. At doses up to 10 mg/kg p.o., LY368975 produced no significant effects on locomotor activity suggesting the compound does not activate or sedate the animals at pharmacologically relevant doses. Therefore, LY368975 is an orally available and centrally active NE reuptake inhibitor that is capable of reducing food consumption in rodents. Compounds of this class may have use in the treatment of obesity and eating disorders.
The effects of methamphetamine (METH) on pro-oxidant processes and on the production of reactive oxygen species were examined in vivo in the rat brain. The presence of oxidative damage in striatum, as revealed by the oxidation of lipid, also was assessed via the measurement of the lipid peroxidation product malonyldialdehyde. To elucidate further the mechanisms mediating METH-induced oxidative stress, we studied the possible reversal of the long-term METH-induced decrease in striatal dopamine content by antioxidants through iron chelation and trapping of free radicals. The uric acid concentration in the striata of rats killed 1 hr, but not 24 hr, after a four-injection regimen of METH was increased significantly compared with saline-injected control rats. METH increased the in vivo formation of the hydroxylated products of salicylate and d-phenylalanine, as evidenced by the elevated extracellular concentrations of 2,3 dihydroxybenzoic acid and p-tyrosine, respectively. The local perfusion of the striatum with the iron chelator deferroxamine attenuated the long-term depletions of striatal dopamine content produced by METH. In other experiments, malonyldialdehyde concentrations in incubated striatal homogenates were elevated significantly in METH-treated rats. Finally, pretreatment with the spin trapping agent phenylbutylnitrone before the METH injections attenuated the subsequent long-term depletions in striatal dopamine content. Overall, the results illustrate that METH increases pro-oxidant processes and offer supportive evidence that METH produces oxidative damage. These studies also demonstrate that iron may be involved in mediating the long-term damage to dopamine neurons after repeated administrations of METH.
Synaptic mechanisms underlying hyperexcitability due to withdrawal from chronic ethanol exposure were investigated in a hippocampal explant model system using electrophysiological techniques. Whole-cell voltage clamp recordings from CA1 pyramidal cells demonstrated that acute ethanol exposure inhibited N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR)-mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents by over 40%. Chronic ethanol exposure for 6 to 11 days at 35 or 75 mM induced no differences from control explants in the fast component of the population synaptic response (non-NMDAR-mediated). Prolonged field potential recordings (to 10 hr) were used to monitor the withdrawal process in vitro. Ethanol-exposed explants from both 35 and 75 mM groups displayed an increase (60% and 89%, respectively) in the NMDAR-mediated component of synaptic transmission on withdrawal from chronic exposure. Prolonged tonic-clonic electrographic seizure activity was consistently observed after ethanol withdrawal only after the increase in NMDAR function. This hyperexcitability was inhibited by the NMDAR antagonist D-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid and returned once the NMDAR component was reestablished after antagonist washout. In situ hybridization studies suggest that expression of NR2B subunit mRNA may be enhanced in explants after chronic ethanol exposure. No lasting differences were observed in the NMDAR component after acute in vitro ethanol exposure and withdrawal. These data suggest that the occurance of ethanol withdrawal hyperexcitability in this system may be directly dependent on alterations in NMDAR function after chronic exposure. Since this region and others that contain ethanol sensitive NMDARs may serve as epileptic foci, long term alterations in NMDAR function may be expected to generate paroxysmal depolarizing shifts underlying ictal events after withdrawal from ethanol exposure.
1. The topographical organization of mossy fibre input to the forelimb area of the paravermal C3 zone in cerebellar lobules IV and V was investigated in barbiturate-anaesthetized cats and compared with the previously described microzonal organization of climbing fibre input to the same part of the cortex. Recordings were made in the Purkinje cell and granule cell layers from single climbing fibre and mossy fibre units, respectively, and the organization of cutaneous receptive fields was assessed for both types of afferents. 2. Based on spatial characteristics, receptive fields of single mossy fibres could be systematized into ten classes and a total of thirty-two subclasses, mainly in accordance with a scheme previously used for classification of climbing fibres. Different mossy fibres displayed a substantial range of sensitivity to natural peripheral stimulation, responded preferentially to phasic or tonic stimuli and were activated by brushing of hairs or light tapping of the skin. 3. Overall, mossy fibres to any given microzone had receptive fields resembling the climbing fibre receptive field defining that microzone. However, compared with the climbing fibre input, the mossy fibre input had a more intricate topographical organization. Mossy fibres with very similar receptive fields projected to circumscribed cortical regions, with a specific termination not only in the mediolateral, but also in some cases in the rostrocaudal and dorsoventral, dimensions of the zone. On the other hand, mossy fibre units with non-identical, albeit usually similar, receptive fields were frequently found in the same microelectrode track.
Outer hair cells (OHC) of the mammalian cochlea modulate the inner hair cell (IHC) mechanoelectrical transduction of sound. They are contacted by synapsing efferent neurons from the CNS, their main efferent neurotransmitter being acetylcholine (ACh). OHC function and in particular their control of [Ca2+]i is highly important and is modulated by ACh and also by other substances including extracellular (EC) ATP. OHC carry at their efferent synapse a not yet completely identified neuronal type of ionotropic ACh receptor (AChR), with an unusual pharmacology, which is, in vivo and in vitro, reversibly blocked by alpha-bungarotoxin (alpha-bgtx). The AChR mediates a fast influx of Ca2+ into OHC which, in turn, activates a closeby located outwardly-directed Ca(2+)-dependent K(+)-channel, thus shortly hyperpolarizing the cell. A cloned homomeric alpha 9 nAChR mimicks the function and pharmacology of this receptor. We here report results from a study designed to observe only slower effects triggered by EC ATP and the ACh-AChR system. EC presence of ATP at OHC increases [Ca2+]i by activating both P2x and P2y purinoceptors and also by indirect activation of OHC L-type Ca(2+)-channels. The L-type channel activation is responsible for a large part of the [Ca2+]i increase. Simultaneous EC presence of ACh and ATP at OHC was found to depress ATP-induced effects on OHC [Ca2+]i, an effect that is completely blocked in the presence of alpha-bgtx. Our observations suggest that the ACh-AChR system is involved in the modulation of the observed EC ATP-triggered events; possibly the OHC AChR is able to act both in its well known rapid ionotropic way, but also, perhaps after modification in a slower, metabotropic way interfering with the EC ATP-induced [Ca2+]i increase.
Form perception with the tongue was studied with a 49-point electrotactile array. Five sighted adult human subjects (3M/2F) each received 4 blocks of 12 tactile patterns, approximations of circles, squares, and vertex-up equilateral triangles, sized to 4x4, 5x5, 6x6, and 7x7 electrode arrays. Perception with electrical stimulation of the tongue is better than with fingertip electrotactile stimulation, and the tongue requires 3% (5-15 V) of the voltage. The mean current for tongue subjects was 1.612 mA. Tongue shape recognition performance across all sizes was 79.8%. The approximate dimensions of the electrotactile array and the dimensions of compartments built into dental retainers have been determined. The goal is to develop a practical, cosmetically acceptable, wireless system for blind persons, with a miniature TV camera, microelectronics, and FM transmitter built into a pair of glasses, and the electrotactile array in a dental orthodontic retainer.
Sildenafil, a peripherally acting inhibitor of cyclic guanosine monophosphate((cGMP), has been reported highly effective in treating erectile dysfunction of various etiology. Erectile dysfunction is a common sexual side effect of various antidepressants. Various agents have been used in the treatment of antidepressant-induced erectile dysfunction; however, there are no reports on the use of sildenafil for this indication. This case report describes the successful use of sildenafil in fluvoxamine-induced erectile dysfunction. A possible mechanism of action of sildenafil in this type of erectile dysfunction is discussed.
This article reviews the advances in pharmacotherapy of paraphilias. Antiandrogen hormones, phenothiazines, and lithium therapy of paraphilias is briefly reviewed. Pharmacotherapy of paraphilias with serotonergic drugs such as fluoxetine, clomipramine, sertraline, and fluvoxamine is reviewed in detail. In addition, the use of buspirone hydrochloride in paraphilias is discussed. The final focus of the article is on the etiologic theories of paraphilias and some practical advice for the pharmacotherapy and management of paraphilias.

A mechanism is proposed that may explain the factors that initiate a multiple sclerosis (MS) lesion. It is based upon the following two hypotheses: (i) there is a lower stimulus threshold for upregulating the mechanisms that result in leukocyte infiltration in individuals predisposed to developing MS; (ii) the MS lesion is initiated as a reduction in blood flow to a localized region of white matter. This reduction in blood flow leads to: (a) degenerative white matter changes affecting oligodendrocytes; (b) upregulation of chemokines in the endothelial cells and/or glial cells; and (c) upregulation of cell adhesion molecules on endothelial cells. Signals from the hypoxemic and hypoglycemic glial cells, likely involving myelin molecules and cytokines, result in an inflammatory immune response that results in rampant demyelination. Evidence supporting the proposed mechanism is presented, as well as suggestions on how to test the validity of the proposal.
Purified Golgi membranes were mixed with cytosol and microtubules (MTs) and observed by video enhanced light microscopy. Initially, the membranes appeared as vesicles that moved along MTs. As time progressed, vesicles formed aggregates from which membrane tubules emerged, traveled along MTs, and eventually generated extensive reticular networks. Membrane motility required ATP, occurred mainly toward MT plus ends, and was inhibited almost completely by the H1 monoclonal antibody to kinesin heavy chain, 5'-adenylylimidodiphosphate, and 100 microM but not 20 microM vanadate. Motility was also blocked by GTPgammaS or A1F4- but was insensitive to A1C13, NaF, staurosporin, or okadaic acid. The targets for GTPgammaS and A1F4- were evidently of cytosolic origin, did not include kinesin or MTs, and were insensitive to several probes for trimeric G proteins. Transport of Golgi membranes along MTs mediated by a kinesin has thus been reconstituted in vitro. The motility is regulated by one or more cytosolic GTPases but not by protein kinases or phosphatases that are inhibited by staurosporin or okadaic acid, respectively. The pertinent GTPases are likely to be small G proteins or possibly dynamin. The in vitro motility may correspond to Golgi-to-ER or Golgi-to-cell surface transport in vivo.
The caspases have been shown to be key components of programmed cell death (PCD) in various cell types, including neurons. Caspase-3 (CPP32) is the predominant caspase that appears to be involved in cell death in several systems. In embryonic motoneuron cultures, caspase-3 activity increases beginning at 20 h following deprivation of trophic support, as determined by the cleavage of its specific substrates. Inhibition of caspase-3 by peptide inhibitors prevents the PCD of motoneurons following trophic factor deprivation in vitro, as well as in vivo. We also investigated the cleavage of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) in motoneurons after trophic factor withdrawal. No PARP cleavage was detected in either viable or dying cells. These data suggest that some components of the cell death machinery such as the involvement of caspases may be conserved in different cell types undergoing PCD, whereas the activation and specific substrates of the caspases may differ from one cell type to another.
A novel splice variant of RGS 9 was isolated from a rat hypothalamus, human retina, and a human kidney (Wilm's) tumor. This variant, termed RGS 9L, differs from the retinal form (termed RGS 9S) identified previously in that it contains a 211- (rat) or 205- (human) amino acid proline-rich domain on the carboxyl terminus. The pattern of RGS 9 mRNA splicing was tissue specific, with striatum, hypothalamus- and nucleus accumbens expressing RGS 9L, whereas retina and pineal expressed RGS 9S almost exclusively. This pattern of mRNA splicing seemed to be highly conserved between human and rodents, suggesting cell-specific differences in the function of these variants. Transient expression of RGS 9L augmented basal and beta-adrenergic receptor-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity while suppressing dopamine D2 receptor-mediated inhibition. Furthermore, RGS 9L expression greatly accelerated the decay of dopamine D2 receptor-induced GIRK current. These results indicate RGS 9L inhibits heterotrimeric Gi function in vivo, probably by acting as a GTPase-activating protein. The human RGS 9 gene was localized to chromosome 17 q23-24 by radiation hybrid and fluorescent in situ hybridization analyses. The RGS 9 gene is within a previously defined locus for retinitis pigmentosa (RP 17), a disease that has been linked to genes in the rhodopsin/transducin/cGMP signaling pathway.

Nitric oxide synthase (NOS) activity was measured in extensor digitorum longus (EDL) and soleus muscles during postnatal development in the rat. At 1 and 2 weeks of age, similar low levels were found in both muscles. After 2 weeks, activity increased significantly only in EDL. Adult NOS activity was significantly higher in EDL than soleus. Thus, the preferential expression of NOS in fast muscle only occurs once the adult pattern of motor activity is established.
We quantitatively investigated the extent of damage to motor neurons in tetraplegic subjects. Numbers of motor units in the patients were significantly lower for thenar, wrist extensor, and biceps brachii as compared to controls. Reduction in counts occurred even when M-response amplitudes were normal. Standard electromyography suggested a surprising frequency of lower motor neuron dysfunction below the level of injury. These results confirm previous reports and add data on motor units in the biceps brachii.
Epileptic seizures are a principal brain dysfunction with important public health implications, as they affect 0.8% of humans. Many of these patients (20%) are resistant to treatment with drugs. The ability to anticipate the onset of seizures in such cases would permit clinical interventions. The view of chronic focal epilepsy now is that abnormally discharging neurons act as pacemakers to recruit and entrain other normal neurons by loss of inhibition and synchronization into a critical mass. Thus, preictal changes should be detectable during the stages of recruitment. Traditional signal analyses, such as the count of focal spike density, the frequency coherence or spectral analyses are not reliable predictors. Non-linear indicators may undergo consistent changes around seizure onset. Our objective was to follow the transition into seizure by reconstructing intracranial recordings in implanted patients as trajectories in a phase space and then introduce non-linear indicators to characterize them. These indicators take into account the extended spatio-temporal nature of the epileptic recruitment processes and the corresponding physiological events governed by short-term causalities in the time series. We demonstrate that in most cases (17 of 19), seizure onset could be anticipated well in advance (between 2-6 minutes beforehand), and that all subjects seemed to share a similar 'route' towards seizure.

We report the presence of binding sites for permeant monovalent cations at the internal and external entrances to the channel of NMDA receptors. We measured the effects of changing internal cesium (Cs+) and external sodium (Na+) concentrations on the channel-blocking kinetics of the adamantane derivatives IEM-1754 and IEM-1857. Binding of Na+, or of Cs+ after it permeates the channel, to sites at the external channel entrance prevents blockers from entering the channel. Binding of Na+ to a blocked channel prevents blocker unbinding. Cs+ binding to a site at the internal channel entrance prevents IEM-1754 from occupying the deeper of its two sites of block. The results show the critical effects of permeant ions on the kinetics, affinity and voltage-dependence of channel blockers.

The extrastriate visual cortex can be divided into functionally distinct temporal and parietal regions, which have been implicated in feature-related ('what') and spatial ('where') vision, respectively. Neuropsychological studies of patients with damage to either the temporal or the parietal regions provide support for this functional distinction. Given the prevailing modular theoretical framework and the fact that prefrontal cortex receives inputs from both temporal and parietal streams, recent studies have focused on the role of prefrontal cortex in understanding where and how information about object identity is integrated with (or remains segregated from) information about object location. Here we show that many neurons in primate posterior parietal cortex (the 'where' pathway) show sensory shape selectivities to simple, two-dimensional geometric shapes while the animal performs a simple fixation task. In a delayed match-to-sample paradigm, many neuronal units also show significant differences in delay-period activity, and these differences depend on the shape of the sample. These results indicate that units in posterior parietal cortex contribute to attending to and remembering shape features in a way that is independent of eye movements, reaching, or object manipulation. These units show shape selectivity equivalent to any shown in the ventral pathway.
A growing branch of neuroscience is investigating conditions that permit neurogenesis in the adult brain. Partially, this aims at using the neuroectodermal stem or precursor cells that persist in the adult brain to induce neuroregenerative processes in the treatment for neurologic disorders. In ex vivo approaches, isolated precursor cells are implanted into the host brain, while in vivo concepts favor a stimulation of precursor cells in situ.
We review the pros and cons of analog and digital computation. We propose that computation that is most efficient in its use of resources is neither analog computation nor digital computation but, rather, a mixture of the two forms. For maximum efficiency, the information and information-processing resources of the hybrid form must be distributed over many wires, with an optimal signal-to-noise ratio per wire. Our results suggest that it is likely that the brain computes in a hybrid fashion and that an underappreciated and important reason for the efficiency of the human brain, which consumes only 12 W, is the hybrid and distributed nature of its architecture.
As the complexity of the missions to planetary surfaces increases, so too does the need for autonomous rover systems. This need is complicated by the power, mass and computer storage restrictions on such systems (Miller, D. P. (1992). Reducing software mass through behaviour control. In Proceedings SPIE conference on cooperative intelligent robotics in space III (Vol. 1829, pp. 472-475, 1992). Boston, MA. To address these problems, we have recently developed a system called BISMARC (Biologically Inspired System for Map-based Autonomous Rover Control) for planetary missions involving multiple small, lightweight surface rovers (Huntsberger, T. L. (1997). Autonomous multirover system for complex planetary retrieval operations. In P. S. Schenker, and G. T. McKee (Eds.), Proceedings SPIE symposium on sensor fusion and decentralized control in autonomous robotic systems (pp. 221-227). Pittsburgh, PA). BISMARC is capable of cooperative planetary surface retrieval operations such as a multiple cache recovery mission to Mars. The system employs autonomous navigation techniques, behavior-based control for surface retrieval operations, and an action selection mechanism based on a modified form of free flow hierarchy (Rosenblatt, J. K. and Payton, D. W. (1989). A fine-grained alternative to the subsumption architecture for mobile robot control. In Proceedings IEEE/INNS joint conference on neural networks (pp. 317-324). Washington, DC). This paper primarily describes the navigation and map-mapping subsystems of BISMARC. They are inspired by some recent studies of London taxi drivers indicating that the right hippocampal region of the brain is activated for path planning but not for landmark identification (Maguire, E. A. et al. (1997). Recalling routes around London: activation of the right hippocampus in taxi drivers. Journal of Neuroscience, 17(18), 7103-7110). We also report the results of some experimental studies of simulated navigation in planetary environments.
Apolipoprotein E (apoE) has been confirmed as a risk factor for late-onset Alzheimer's disease (AD) and is associated with neurofibrillary tangles and senile plaques, the microscopic pathological characteristics of AD. There has been no direct evidence that human central nervous system neurons can take up and internalize exogenous apoE, which may be important in order for apoE to be involved in the development of the disease. This paper demonstrates by immunohistochemistry and confocal microscopy that cultured human brain neurons can take up and internalize exogenous recombinant human apoE3. We confirm that neurons express the low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein (LRP) but do not express the low-density lipoprotein receptor. We also demonstrate that the LRP mediates the neuronal uptake of apoE.
Inactivation of 5-HT1A and [3H]5-HT binding sites by N-Ethoxycarbonyl-2-ethoxy-1, 2-dihydroquinoline (EEDQ) was studied in regions of rat brain. After exposure to EEDQ (4 mg/kg body wt.) for 7 days, it is observed that the density of 5-HT1 receptor sites was decreased by nearly 20% in both cortex and hippocampus. The decrease, however, in 5-HT1A sites was more significant (70%) in both the regions. The affinity of [3H]5-HT to 5-HT1 sites was decreased significantly in both cortex and hippocampus after exposure to EEDQ, without affecting the Kd of 5-HT1A sites. Displacement studies suggested that EEDQ has high affinity to 5-HT1 sites with a Ki of 42.9+/-2.4 nM. After exposure neither basal nor 5-HT stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity was changed in cortex. The results of this study suggest that EEDQ decreases the density of 5-HT1 and 5-HT1A receptor sites but does not cause functional downregulation of these sites in rat brain.
Exposure of weanling rats to a diet containing 1% elemental tellurium causes segmental demyelination of peripheral nerve, and an inhibition of squalene epoxidase. This inhibition is thought to be the mechanism of action leading to demyelination. Tellurite appears to be the active inhibitory species in a cell-free system but the active species in vivo is unknown. We examined potassium tellurite (K2TeO3) and three organotellurium compounds for their ability to inhibit squalene epoxidase in Schwann cell cultures and to induce demyelination in weanling rats. K2TeO3 had no effect on squalene epoxidase activity in cultured Schwann cells and caused no demyelination in vivo. All three organotellurium compounds caused inhibition of squalene epoxidase in vitro and caused demyelination in vivo. (CH3)2TeCl2 was the most potent of these compounds and its neuropathy most resembled that caused by elemental tellurium. These data are consistent with the hypothesis that tellurium-induced demyelination is a result of squalene epoxidase inhibition and suggest that a dimethyltelluronium compound may be the neurotoxic species presented to Schwann cells in vivo.
The Fatty Acid method was used to determine whether incorporation of plasma radiolabeled arachidonic acid into brain phospholipids is controlled by phospholipase A2. Awake rats received an i.v. injection of a phospholipase A2 inhibitor, manoalide (10 mg/kg), and then were infused i.v. with [1-(14)C]arachidonate or [3H]arachidonate. Animals were killed after infusion by microwave irradiation, and tracer distribution was analyzed in brain phospholipid, neutral lipid and acyl-CoA pools. Calcium-independent phospholipase A2 activity in brain homogenate was reduced by manoalide, whereas phospholipase C activity was unaffected. At 60 min but not at 20 or 40 min after its injection, manoalide had significantly decreased by 50% incorporation of unesterified arachidonate into and turnover within brain phospholipids, taking into account dilution of the brain arachidonoyl-CoA pool by recycled arachidonate. Manoalide also increased by 100% the net rate of unesterified arachidonate incorporation into brain triacylglycerol. This study indicates that manoalide can be used to inhibit brain phospholipase A2 in vivo, and that phospholipase A2 plays a critical role in arachidonate turnover in brain phospholipids and neutral lipids.
To examine the role of progesterone (P) and its 5alpha-reduced metabolite, the neurosteroid 5alpha-pregnan-3alpha-ol-20-one (3alpha, 5alpha-THP), in endogenous variations in ictal activity rats were tested for kainic acid-induced seizures in different hormonal milieu. Corresponding plasma and central P and 3alpha,5alpha-THP levels were measured. Cycling Long-Evans rats in estrus and proestrus had seizures of significantly shorter duration and more central and plasma 3alpha,5alpha-THP and P than animals in metestrus or diestrus. Females with luteal functioning had seizures of significantly shorter duration and increased central and plasma 3alpha,5alpha-THP and P compared to animals that recently had luteal functioning discontinued. Pregnant rats had significantly shorter seizures and greater central and plasma 3alpha,5alpha-THP and central P than animals tested 1-2 days postparturition. In all test paradigms, seizure activity was increased in animals that had decreased 3alpha, 5alpha-THP or P; overall, central 3alpha,5alpha-THP was more inversely related to ictal activity than central P or plasma P and 3alpha,5alpha-THP. To investigate a causal relationship between 3alpha,5alpha-THP and seizures, a 5alpha-reductase inhibitor, finasteride, or vehicle was administered to pregnant rats. Finasteride administration significantly decreased central and plasma 3alpha,5alpha-THP, but had no significant effect on plasma or central P of pregnant rats. Finasteride, but not vehicle administration, to pregnant rats significantly increased seizure duration. These findings support the hypothesis that variations in seizure threshold over endogenous hormonal milieu may be related to endogenous 3alpha,5alpha-THP. Of all of the endocrine conditions, seizure durations were greatest in diestrus animals; this group did not experience the lowest or the greatest decrease in 3alpha, 5alpha-THP concentrations; however, of all of the endocrine conditions, cycling rats experienced the most rapid cycles of 3alpha, 5alpha-THP variation. This suggests that cycles of endogenous variations in 3alpha,5alpha-THP may influence seizure threshold.


Long-term potentiation and depression (LTP and LTD) in excitatory synapses can coexist, the former being triggered by stimuli that produce strong postsynaptic excitation and the latter by stimuli that produce weaker postsynaptic excitation. It has not been determined whether these properties also apply to LTP and LTD in the inhibitory synapses between Purkinje neurons and the neurons of the deep cerebellar nuclei (DCN), a site that has been implicated in certain types of motor learning. DCN cells exhibit a prominent rebound depolarization (RD) and associated spike burst upon release from hyperpolarization. In these cells, LTP can be elicited by short, high-frequency trains of inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs), which reliably evoke an RD. LTD is induced if the same protocol is applied with conditions where the amount of postsynaptic excitation is reduced. The polarity of the change in synaptic strength is correlated with the amount of RD-evoked spike firing during the induction protocol. Thus, some important computational principles that govern the induction of use-dependent change in excitatory synaptic efficacy also apply to inhibitory synapses.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and surface-based representations of brain activity were used to compare the functional anatomy of two tasks, one involving covert shifts of attention to peripheral visual stimuli, the other involving both attentional and saccadic shifts to the same stimuli. Overlapping regional networks in parietal, frontal, and temporal lobes were active in both tasks. This anatomical overlap is consistent with the hypothesis that attentional and oculomotor processes are tightly integrated at the neural level.
Polyribosomal complexes beneath postsynaptic sites on dendrites provide a substrate for local translation of particular mRNAs, but the signals that target mRNAs to synapses remain to be defined. Here, we report that high frequency activation of the perforant path projections to the dentate gyrus causes newly synthesized mRNA for the immediate-early gene (IEG) Arc to localize selectively in activated dendritic segments. Newly synthesized Arc protein also accumulates in the portion of the dendrite that had been synaptically activated. The targeting of Arc mRNA was not disrupted by locally inhibiting protein synthesis, indicating that the signals for mRNA localization reside in the mRNA itself. This novel mechanism through which newly synthesized mRNA is precisely targeted to activated synapses is well suited to play a role in the enduring forms of activity-dependent synaptic modification that require protein synthesis.
Group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) activate PI turnover and thereby trigger intracellular calcium release. Previously, we demonstrated that mGluRs form natural complexes with members of a family of Homer-related synaptic proteins. Here, we present evidence that Homer proteins form a physical tether linking mGluRs with the inositol trisphosphate receptors (IP3R). A novel proline-rich &quot;Homer ligand&quot; (PPXXFr) is identified in group 1 mGluRs and IP3R, and these receptors coimmunoprecipitate as a complex with Homer from brain. Expression of the IEG form of Homer, which lacks the ability to cross-link, modulates mGluR-induced intracellular calcium release. These studies identify a novel mechanism in calcium signaling and provide evidence that an IEG, whose expression is driven by synaptic activity, can directly modify a specific synaptic function.
Homer is a neuronal immediate early gene (IEG) that is enriched at excitatory synapses and binds group 1 metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs). Here, we characterize a family of Homer-related proteins derived from three distinct genes. Like Homer IEG (now termed Homer 1a), all new members bind group 1 mGluRs. In contrast to Homer 1a, new members are constitutively expressed and encode a C-terminal coiled-coil (CC) domain that mediates self-multimerization. CC-Homers form natural complexes that cross-link mGluRs and are enriched at the postsynaptic density. Homer 1a does not multimerize and blocks the association of mGluRs with CC-Homer complexes. These observations support a model in which the dynamic expression of Homer 1a competes with constitutively expressed CC-Homers to modify synaptic mGluR properties.


A patient presented with features of olivopontocerebellar atrophy and was found to have marked hyperglycinaemia. Severe atrophy of the cerebellum and brain stem was found at post-mortem, with numerous glial cytoplasmic inclusions (GCIs) in atrophic areas, characteristic of multiple system atrophy. In situ hybridization studies of the spinal cord demonstrated a selective reduction in expression of glycine transporter mRNA. We suggest that the resulting impairment of regulation of glycine concentrations at synaptic level resulted in excitotoxic damage to neurons.
Gabapentin is an antiepileptic drug used in the treatment of partial and generalized tonic-clonic seizures. Its antiepileptic mechanism of action is not known. The transport of gabapentin across membranes and its demonstrated effects on voltage-gated ion channels (sodium, calcium), presynaptic mechanisms that can enhance GABAergic inhibition, and ligand-gated ion channels (GABA receptors and glutamate receptors) are reviewed.
Several clinical studies have investigated the use of the anticonvulsant lamotrigine (LTG) as a treatment for bipolar affective disorder. Evidence suggests that this drug may have a broad spectrum of utility in this illness, having both mood-stabilising (antimanic) and acute antidepressant properties. This makes this molecule of particular interest in helping to understand the underlying disease processes. In this review, we describe the cellular and molecular actions of LTG that may contribute to its action in bipolar disorder. LTG preferentially inhibits neuronal hyperexcitability and modifies synaptic plasticity via use- and voltage-dependent inhibition of neuronal voltage-activated Na+ channels and possibly high-voltage-activated Ca&gt;cf6&gt;2+&gt;cf1&gt; channels. As a consequence, it reduces excessive transmitter release in the brain. Indirectly, these effects would be expected to regulate aberrant intracellular and intercellular signalling in critical regions of the limbic forebrain where hyperactivity may occur in mania, and thus may be directly relevant to its mood-stabilising properties. Whether other molecular actions of LTG, for example on monoamine disposition, could contribute to its antidepressant activity, are less clear at present but warrant further investigation.
Determining the connections of neural systems is critical for determining how they function. In this review, we focus on the use of HSV-1 and HSV-2 as transneuronal tracers. Using HSV to examine neural circuits is technically simple. HSV is injected into the area of interest, and after several days, the animals are perfused and processed for immunohistochemistry with antibodies to HSV proteins. Variables which influence HSV infection include species of host, age of host, titre of virus, strain of virus and phenotype of infected cell. The choice of strain of HSV is critically important. Several strains of HSV-1 and HSV-2 have been utilized for purposes of transneuronal tract-tracing. HSV has been used successfully to study neuronal circuitry in a variety of different neuroanatomical systems including the somatosensory, olfactory, visual, motor, autonomic and limbic systems.
In light of the overwhelming response to the previous publication in Neuroscience and Biobehavioral Reviews (1993, 17, 21-41) regarding trends in place conditioning (either preference or aversion), the present work constitutes a five-year follow-up to review the empirical research in this behavioral paradigm from 1992 to 1996, inclusively. The behavioral technique has grown as indicated by the number of publications over the last five years which equals those authored over the 35 years covered by our last survey. The previous work used descriptive statistics to explore topical issues, whereas the present work discusses trends since that time and hopes to provide an exhaustive bibliography of the CPP literature, including articles, published abstracts, book chapters and reviews, as well as providing a cross-index of identified key words/drugs tested.
Lick sensors are versatile instruments that are routinely used in behavioral and neuroscience research involving fluid ingestion in the rat. There are three different types of sensors: electrical, optical and force sensors. They differ in the exact moment of activation during the tongue protrusion/retraction cycle. Precautions in the use of each type of sensor are discussed. Adequate lick detection requires restriction of access to the water source to the tongue of the animal. It appears that drinking configurations that fulfill this task may affect the modal licking frequency. Increasing the amount of tongue travel that is needed to reach the drinking tube or water surface, decreases the licking frequency. The licking frequency can be manipulated between about 7.5 and 4 Hz. Therefore, if 'invariant' licking/lapping frequencies are observed, this is not so much the manifestation of a rigid output of a central pattern generator, but more the consequence of similarity in the effects of the employed drinking configurations. Applications of lick sensors in behavioral and neuroscience research are briefly discussed.
The development of neurotrophic alpha herpesviruses for transneuronal analysis of neuronal circuitry has emerged from interdisciplinary characterizations of the viral life cycle and the defense response mounted by the nervous system to contain and eliminate the infection. Important findings from a number of fields have combined to provide compelling evidence that these viruses, when used appropriately, are powerful probes of multisynaptic circuits. These studies have also revealed that a number of variables can influence the outcome of infection and should be considered in designing and interpreting data derived from studies employing this experimental approach. The purpose of this paper is to review the literature that has established this experimental approach as a viable method for transynaptic analysis of neuronal circuitry and to define the factors that should be considered in applying this technology.
Live viruses can be used as tools to label chains of neurons and thus to define functionally connected CNS circuits. This review summarizes the background and general principles involved in using the viral tracing technology. An attenuated form of a pig herpes virus, known as the Bartha's K strain of pseudorabies virus, has proven to be a useful type of virus for the analysis of CNS systems in the rat. The properties of this virus and the evidence for its specificity in causing trans-synaptic infections is discussed.
The distribution of immunoreactivity for the neurotrophin receptor tyrosine kinase TrkC was examined in the brain of the adult rhesus monkey. TrkC-like immunoreactivity was widespread and consisted primarily of varicose fibers. The most dense populations of fibers were in the basal forebrain (in the cholinergic cell groups Ch1, Ch2 and Ch4), in the raph complex throughout its rostrocaudal extent, and in the locus coeruleus. Other fibers were present in the thalamus, hypothalamus, central gray matter of the midbrain, dorsal midline of the brainstem and the cerebral cortex. The only neuronal cell bodies with consistent labeling were located in the lateral hypothalamus. Purkinje cells in the cerebellum showed variable labeling. Specific labeling of varicosities and cell bodies was abolished by omission of the primary antiserum or by preabsorption with the TrkC peptide antigen. We conclude that TrkC-like immunoreactivity can be detected in a wide variety of subcortical locations in the adult rhesus monkey. Labeling was particularly prominent in the vicinity of the major cholinergic, serotonergic and adrenergic nuclei, known from other studies to be vulnerable in the ageing brain. This suggests that the ligand for TrkC, neurotrophin-3, may persist as a survival factor for critical neurons into adulthood.
Responses of fusimotor neurons to lengthening vs isometric contractions have been studied in decerebrate cats. Spike discharges of fusimotor neurons to the medial gastrocnemius muscle were recorded from this muscle nerve filament during sequences of contractions and/or stretches of the lateral gastrocnemius and soleus muscles. The sequences lasted for 250-450s (duty cycle 4:2 s). Isometric contractions were elicited by electrical stimulation (40 Hz, 1.3 times motor threshold) of the muscle nerves. Lengthening contractions were elicited in the same way while the muscles were stretched by 4 mm at a velocity of 1 mm/s. Of 25 fusimotor neurons studied, 23 responded to muscle contractions with an increase in firing rate, subsiding towards the end of the sequence. The increase was either modulated with each subsequent contraction or smooth throughout the sequence. Approximately 64% of fusimotor neurons, responding to muscle contractions, responded in a similar way to the sequences of muscle stretches, applied alone. Responses to sequences of the lengthening contractions were significantly larger, on average, than those to the isometric ones, but smaller than the sum of the responses to the contractions and stretches applied separately. On the other hand, they were also larger in fusimotor units, showing no overt responses to muscle stretches alone.
A non-replicating triple-mutant herpes simplex virus (14H delta 3vhsZ) expressing the bacterial marker enzyme beta-galactosidase, was assessed for neurotropism and cytopathic effects as a vector for gene transfer into differentiated phaeochromocytoma 12 cells in vitro and into spinal sympathetic neurons in vivo. In the in vivo study, the 14H delta 3vhsZ was injected into the adrenal gland of hamsters. For comparison, an evaluation of two adenovirus vectors, AdCA17lacZ and AdCA36lacZ, was performed. Infection of the differentiated phaeochromocytoma 12 cells by 14H delta 3vhsZ resulted in intense beta-galactosidase staining in 80-90% of the cells without changes in cell morphology, detected by light microscopy, after a period of four days. No cytoskeletal disruption was detected by immunocytochemistry for the neurofilament protein and no apoptosis was demonstrated by the Hoescht stain for nuclear chromatin in virus-infected cells in comparison to mock-infected control cells. Twoto three days after adrenal inoculation with 14H delta 3vhsZ, beta-galactosidase was detected in 240 preganglionic neurons per hamster (n = 8), a number equal to about 25% of the population of targeted neurons. The beta-galactosidase reaction product extended throughout the normal kite-shaped neuronal somata and extensive dendritic arbour. The number decreased to 120 by five days (n = 3) and to two by eight days (n = 4). This decrease was presumably due to loss of expression of the marker gene and not to cell death because, at eight days, the number of sympathetic pregnanglionic neurons in the nucleus intermediolateralis, pars principalis, that were immunoreactive for the neurotransmitter enzyme choline acetyltransferase, and demonstrated nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase activity, were the same on the infected left side of the cord as on the uninfected right side. Inflammatory cells surrounded some of the infected neurons at five days but by eight days the infiltrate was reduced. Infection of differentiated phaeochromocytoma 12 cells by AdCA17lacZ and AdCA36lacZ also resulted in marker gene expression in a large proportion of the cells (80-90%) in the absence of cytopathic effects. In contrast, four days after adrenal injection of AdCA17lacZ or AdCA36lacZ (n = 5 for each) only an average of three preganglionic neurons per hamster expressed beta-galactosidase activity, despite clear adrenal infection. AdCA17lacZ and AdCA36lacZ both produced light patches of staining confined to the neuronal soma. These neurons had normal morphology but sometimes were surrounded by an inflammatory infiltrate. In conclusion, the non-replicating herpes simplex virus, 14H delta 3vhsZ, had minimal cytotoxic effects in neurons, in vitro or in vivo, and was efficiently transported from the adrenal gland to infect many sympathoadrenal pregnanglionic neurons. In contrast, very few neurons demonstrated beta-galactosidase activity after injection into the adrenal gland of AdCA17lacZ and AdCA36lacZ. Therefore, 14H delta 3vhsZ is a more suitable vector than either of the adenovirus vectors tested for eliciting short-term changes in preganglionic neuron gene expression.
Bursts of beta-frequency (15-35 Hz) electroencephalogram activity occur in the olfactory system during odour sampling, but their mode of propagation within the olfactory system and potential contribution to the mechanisms of learning and memory are unclear. We have elicited large-amplitude beta activity in the rat olfactory system by applying noxious olfactory stimuli (toluene), and have monitored the bursts via chronically-implanted electrodes. Following exposure to toluene, coherent bursts with a peak frequency of 19.8 +/- 0.9 Hz were observed in the olfactory bulb, piriform cortex, entorhinal cortex and dentate gyrus. The timing of the bursts and the phases of electroencephalogram cross-spectra indicate that beta bursts propagate in a caudal direction from the olfactory bulb to the entorhinal cortex. The time delays between peaks of bursts in these structures were similar to latency differences for field potentials evoked by olfactory bulb or piriform cortex test-pulses. Peaks of burst cycles in the dentate region, however, were observed just prior to those in the entorhinal cortex. Surprisingly, power in toluene-induced beta-frequency oscillations was not increased following long-term potentiation induced by tetanic stimulation of the olfactory bulb, piriform cortex and entorhinal cortex. The activity of local inhibitory mechanisms may therefore counteract the effects of synaptic enhancements in afferent pathways during beta bursts. Low-frequency electrical stimulation of the piriform cortex was most effective in inducing coherent oscillatory responses in the entorhinal cortex and dentate gyrus at stimulation frequencies between 12 and 16 Hz. The results show that repetitive polysynaptic volleys at frequencies in the beta band induced by either toluene or electrical stimulation are transmitted readily within the olfactory system. The propagation of neural activity within this frequency range may therefore contribute to the transmission of olfactory signals to the hippocampal formation, particularly for those odours which induce high-amplitude bursts of beta activity.
Arachidonic acid, which is thought to be involved in pathogenetic mechanisms of the central nervous system, has been shown previously to modulate neuronal ion channels and the glutamate uptake carrier of retinal glial (Mller) cells. We have used various configurations of the patch-clamp technique to determine the effects of arachidonic acid on the K+ currents of freshly isolated Mller glial cells from rabbit and human. Arachidonic acid reduced the peak amplitude of the transient (A-type) outward K+ currents in a dose-dependent and reversible manner, with a 50% reduction achieved by 4.1 microM arachidonic acid. The inward rectifier-mediated currents remained unchanged after arachidonic acid application. The amplitude of the Ca(2+)-activated K+ outward currents (KCa), which were blocked by 1 mM tetraethylammonium chloride and 40 nM iberiotoxin, respectively, was dose-dependently elevated by bath application of arachidonic acid. The activation curve of the KCa currents shifted towards more negative membrane potentials. Furthermore, arachidonic acid was found to suppress inwardly directed Na+ currents. In cell-attached recordings with 3 mM K+ in the bath and 130 mM K+ in the pipette, the KCa channels of rabbit Mller cells displayed a linear current-voltage relation, with a mean slope conductance of 102 pS. In excised patches, the slope conductance was 220 pS (150 mM K+i/130 mM K+o). The opening probability of the KCa channels increased during membrane depolarization and during elevation of the free Ca2+ concentration at the intracellular face of the membrane patches. Bath application of arachidonic acid caused a reversible increase of the single-channel opening probability, as well as an increase of the number of open channels. Arachidonic acid did not affect the single-channel conductance. Since arachidonic acid also stimulates the KCa channel activity in excised patches, the action of arachidonic acid is assumed to be independent of changes of the intracellular calcium concentration. Our results demonstrate that arachidonic acid exerts specific effects on distinct types of K+ channels in retinal glial, cells. In pathological cases, elevated arachidonic acid levels may contribute to prolonged Mller cell depolarizations, and to the initiation of reactive glial cell proliferation.
The involvement of vagal afferents in the communication pathway from the immune system to the brain was studied. Glutamate was measured in the nucleus tractus solitarius, the brain area receiving glutamatergic vagal afferents, after peripheral injection of lipopolysaccharide or interleukin-1 beta. Intraperitoneal or intravenous saline or intraperitoneal heat-inactivated interleukin-1 beta increased glutamate release, measured by brain microdialysis in freely-moving rats at 20 min (137 +/- 19%, 126 +/- 10% and 133 +/- 6%, respectively), without inducing any other change up to 3 h after injection. Intraperitoneal lipopolysaccharide (10 micrograms/rat) increased glutamate at 20 min (132 +/- 10%) and at 60 min (208 +/- 26%). To compare lipopolysaccharide effectiveness by the two routes, serum levels of interleukin-1 beta, interleukin-6 and tumour necrosis factor-alpha were measured. Intravenous lipopolysaccharide induced each cytokine more rapidly and efficiently than intraperitoneal lipopolysaccharide. Perfusion with tetrodotoxin (1 microM) in the dialysis probe decreased glutamate basal levels by approximately 20% and completely prevented lipopolysaccharide effects, showing the neuronal component of the glutamate measured. Except for the 20-min increase, intravenous lipopolysaccharide (10 micrograms/rat) did not affect glutamate release. Intraperitoneal interleukin-1 beta (4 micrograms/rat) increased glutamate release at 20 min (126 +/- 6%) and at 40 min (150 +/- 18%). These data indicate that vagal glutamatergic system in the nucleus tractus solitarius is activated by intraperitoneal injections of immunoactive compounds.
Under anaesthesia, blood loss and deep pain can evoke a premature, centrally-mediated sympathoinhibition leading to decompensated shock and sometimes even death. The central circuits evoking premature vasodepressor syncope are unknown, although medullary catecholaminergic pathways have been implicated. The ventrolateral periaqueductal gray region is one of only three brain regions in which catecholamine content is increased during halothane anaesthesia. The ventrolateral periaqueductal gray also contains neurons which are selectively activated by blood loss and deep pain, and recent work from our laboratory has suggested that it is a pivotal structure in central sympathoinhibitory circuits. Using retrograde tracing techniques combined with the immunohistochemical detection of: (i) the catecholamine synthetic enzyme, tyrosine hydroxylase and (ii) the protein product of the immediate-early gene c-fos as a marker of neuronal activation; the results of this study indicate that catecholaminergic projections from the A1, C1 and C2 regions of the medulla to the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray are activated by halothane anaesthesia. These data are consistent with the hypotheses that ascending catecholaminergic projections to the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray: (i) are a component of the central neural circuitry responsible for the sympathoinhibitory effects of halothane anaesthesia, and (ii) may contribute to the premature elicitation of vasodepressor syncope following blood loss and deep pain under conditions of anaesthesia.
The fimbria-fornix transection paradigm has been used as a model of retrograde neurodegeneration within the medial septal nucleus and anterograde degeneration of axon terminals within the lateral septal nucleus. Because the maintenance and survival of neurons may depend on the integrity of both efferents and afferents, the ultrastructure of neurons in the medial septal nucleus and dorsolateral septal nucleus was analysed at three, seven, 14, 30 days, and six months following unilateral transection of the fimbria-fornix in adult rats. Degeneration of axonal and somatodendritic compartments occurred in both nuclei on the side ipsilateral to fimbria-fornix transection. Degeneration of axons and terminals was present by three days and dissipated thereafter, although degenerating axodendritic and axosomatic terminals were still detected at 14-30 days postlesion. Dendrosomal alterations in both septal nuclei manifested as redistribution of organelles, dispersion and loss of rough endoplasmic reticulum, formation of membrane-bound vacuolar cisternae and membranous inclusions, loss of cytoplasmic matrix, and dispersion of chromatin throughout the nucleoplasmic matrix. These changes occurred in the absence of apparent ultrastructural damage to mitochondria and condensation of the nucleus. Dendritic pathology in both the medial and dorsolateral septal nuclei was most prominent at 14-30 days postlesion, but the neuropil recovered to control appearance by six months postlesion. In contrast, the cytoplasmic rarefaction and vacuolation of neuronal cell bodies were persistent in both the medial septal nucleus and the dorsolateral septal nucleus. We conclude that, following disconnection from the hippocampus, ultrastructural abnormalities occur within neurons in both the medial and lateral septal nuclei. The characteristics and time-course for these changes are similar in both nuclei. The neuropilar degeneration was transient, in contrast to the neuronal cell body injury which was persistent and was morphologically consistent with long-term neuronal atrophy.
The tight junctions found between cerebral vascular endothelial cells form the basis of the blood-brain barrier. Breakdown of the blood-brain barrier is a feature of a variety of CNS pathologies that are characterized by extensive leucocyte recruitment, such as multiple sclerosis and stroke. The molecular mechanisms associated with opening of the blood-brain barrier and leucocyte recruitment in vivo are currently poorly understood. We have used an in vivo rat model to investigate the molecular response of the CNS endothelium to neutrophil adhesion and migration. Injection of interleukin-1 beta into the striatum of juvenile brains results in a neutrophil-dependent increase in vessel permeability at 4 h. Only a subset of blood vessels were associated with neutrophil recruitment. These particular vessels displayed an increase in phosphotyrosine staining, loss of the tight junctional proteins, occludin and zonula occludens-1, and apparent redistribution of the adherens junction protein vinculin. Examination of these vessels under the electron microscope indicated that the cell-cell adhesions in such vessels are morphologically different from normal junctions. This study provides the first direct evidence in vivo that leucocyte recruitment can trigger signal transduction cascades leading to junctional disorganization and blood-brain barrier breakdown. Our results have established an endothelial cell molecular profile associated with leucocyte-induced blood-brain barrier breakdown in vivo, and the relevance of different in vitro cell culture models may now be viewed more objectively.
P2X purinoceptors have been suggested to participate in transduction of painful stimuli in nociceptive neurons. In the current experiments, ATP (1-10 mM), alpha,beta-methylene-ATP (10-30 microM) and capsaicin (10 nM-1 microM) were applied to neurons impaled with high resistance microelectrodes in rat dorsal root ganglia (L4 and L5) isolated in vitro together with the sciatic nerve and dorsal roots. The agonists were either bath applied or focally applied using a picospritzer. GABA (100 microM) and 40-80 mM K+ solutions gave brisk responses when applied by either technique. Only three of 22 neurons with slowly conducting axons (C cells) showed evidence of P2X-purinoceptor-mediated responses. Only two of 13 cells which responded to capsaicin (putative nociceptors), and none of 29 cells with rapidly conducting axons (A cells), responded to the purinergic agonists. When acutely dissociated dorsal root ganglion cells were studied using patch-clamp techniques, all but four of 30 cells of all sizes responded with an inward current to either ATP or alpha,beta-methylene-ATP (both 100 microM). Our data suggest that few sensory cell bodies in intact dorsal root ganglia express functional purinoceptors.
Partial nerve injury is more likely to cause neuropathic pain than complete nerve injury. We have compared the changes in neuropeptide expression in primary sensory neurons which follow complete and partial injuries to determine if these might be involved. Since more neurons are damaged by complete injury, we expected that complete sciatic nerve injury would simply cause greater increases in neuropeptide Y and vasoactive intestinal peptide than partial injury. We examined neuropeptide Y and vasoactive intestinal peptide immunoreactivities in L4 and L5 dorsal root ganglia, the dorsal horn of L4-L5 spinal cord, and the gracile nuclei of rats killed 14 days after unilateral complete sciatic nerve transection, partial sciatic nerve transection and chronic constriction injury of the sciatic nerves. In all three groups of rats, neuropeptide Y- and vasoactive intestinal peptide-immunoreactive neurons were increased in the ipsilateral L4 and L5 dorsal root ganglion when compared with the contralateral side. Most neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive neurons were of medium and large size, but a few were small. Neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive axonal fibers were increased from laminae I to IV, and vasoactive intestinal peptide-immunoreactive axonal fibers were increased in laminae I and II, of the ipsilateral dorsal horn of L4-L5 spinal cord. The increases of neuropeptide Y and vasoactive intestinal peptide immunoreactivities in the dorsal horn were similar among the three groups. However, only after constriction injury were some vasoactive intestinal peptide-immunoreactive neurons seen in the deeper laminae of the ipsilateral dorsal horn. Robust neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive axonal fibers and some neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive cells were seen in the ipsilateral gracile nuclei of all three groups of animals, but neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive cells were more prominent after constriction injury. Contrary to our expectations, partial and complete sciatic nerve injuries induced similar increases in neuropeptide Y and vasoactive intestinal peptide in lumbar dorsal root ganglion neurons and their central projections in the dorsal horn and the gracile nuclei two weeks after injury. Some neurons whose axons were spared by partial injury may also increase neuropeptide Y or vasoactive intestinal peptide expression. Altered neuropeptide release from these functional sensory neurons may play a role in neuropathic pain.
The use-dependent increase in synaptic strength between primary afferent C-fibres and second-order neurons in superficial spinal dorsal horn may be an important cellular mechanism underlying central hyperalgesia. This long-term potentiation can be blocked by antagonists of the N-methyl-D-aspartate subtype of glutamate receptor, the neurokinin 1 or the neurokinin 2 receptor. We have tested here whether activation of these receptors by superfusion of the spinal cord with corresponding agonists in the absence of presynaptic activity is sufficient to induce long-term potentiation. In urethane anaesthetized rats C-fibre-evoked field potentials were elicited in superficial laminae of lumbar spinal cord by electrical stimulation of the sciatic nerve. In rats with intact spinal cord, controlled superfusion of the spinal cord at recording segments for 60 min with N-methyl-D-aspartate, substance P or neurokinin A never induced long-term potentiation. Spinal superfusion with a mixture of N-methyl-D-aspartate, substance P and neurokinin A also failed to induce long-term potentiation in four rats tested. In spinalized rats, however, long-term potentiation was induced by either N-methyl-D-aspartate (at 10 microM, to 173 +/- 16% of control) substance P (at 10 microM, to 176 +/- 13% of control) or by neurokinin A (at 1 microM, to 198 +/- .20% of control). The induction of long-term potentiation by N-methyl-D-aspartate, substance P or neurokinin A was blocked by intravenous application of the receptor antagonists dizocilpine maleate (0.5 mg/kg), RP67580 (2 mg/kg) or SR48968 (0.2 mg/kg), respectively. Thus, activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate or neurokinin receptors may induce long-lasting plastic changes in synaptic transmission in afferent C-fibres and this effect may be prevented by tonic descending inhibition.
The role of ATP as a fast neurotransmitter is emerging from several lines of physiological and pharmacological studies. The bulk of experimental data on release properties and purinergic receptor-mediated postsynaptic potentials derives from studies in the habenula, but the source of the stimulation-evoked ATP release in this region is still unknown. In the present study, retrograde and anterograde tracing techniques were used to establish that both calretinin-containing and calretinin-negative neurons in the triangular septal and septofimbrial nuclei send a massive projection to the medial habenula, where they form asymmetrical synapses with their target neurons. The cells of origin, their axon terminals, as well as their synaptic targets remained unstained in sections immunostained for GABA. Electrolytic lesions of this anatomically circumscribed pathway resulted in an over 80% decrease in ATP release from habenula slices evoked by electric field stimulation. The possibility of transneuronal effects and release from local collaterals of habenular projection neurons accounting for the decreased ATP release has been excluded, since (i) there were no signs of neuronal degeneration, chromatolysis or atrophy in the habenula, (ii) the projection neurons have extremely sparse local collaterals and (iii) there are apparently no interneurons in the habenula. We conclude that the projection from the triangular septal and septofimbrial nucleus to the habenula uses ATP as a fast neurotransmitter, and its co-transmitter, if any, is likely to be glutamate.
The aim of the present study was to determine whether local administration of endothelin induces the release of dopamine in the rat striatum and to characterize and localize endothelin receptors in this brain region. Local injection of endothelin-1 (10 pmol) into the ventral striatum of urethane-anaesthetized rats caused an increase of 8 microM in the extracellular concentration of dopamine as measured by in vivo chronoamperometry. The peak increase in dopamine concentration occurred within 5 min of endothelin injection. Injection of the selective endothelin-B receptor agonist [Ala1.3,11.15]endothelin-1 (10 pmol) also caused an increase in extracellular dopamine concentration, suggesting that endothelin is acting at the endothelin-B receptor to elicit its effect. In rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the nigrostriatal pathway, the response to local injection of endothelin-1 (10 pmol) was significantly inhibited on the lesioned side as compared to the non-lesioned side. In contrast, pretreatment of the rats with the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist dizocilpine maleate (5 mg/kg, i.p.) or the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor NG-nitro-L-arginine (3 mg/kg, i.p.) did not alter the endothelin-induced release of dopamine. In binding studies, addition of endothelin-1 displaced [125I]endothelin-1 with a Ki of 220 pM. The endothelin-B receptor antagonist BQ788 displaced [125I]endothelin-1 with a Ki of 120 nM, whereas the endothelin-A receptor antagonist BQ123 produced only a 25% displacement at 10 microM, suggesting that endothelin receptors in the striatum are of the endothelin-B subtype. In rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the nigrostriatal dopamine system, [125I]endothelin-1 binding was reduced by 53% in lesioned striatum compared to non-lesioned striatum, with no difference in the Kd. These data provide evidence that endothelin acts on a homogeneous population of endothelin-B receptors within the striatum to cause the release of dopamine and that a significant proportion of these receptors is located on dopaminergic neurons.
The aim of this study was to investigate putative effects of calcitonin gene-related peptide on developing dopaminergic neurons in the ventral mesencephalon. To determine a time-point for a physiological role of calcitonin gene-related peptide in the development of this system, we first investigated calcitonin gene-related peptide messenger RNA expression in the ventral mesencephalon of Wistar rats at embryonic days (E) 11-19. Calcitonin gene-related peptide messenger RNA was not detectable at E11, i.e. prior to the appearance of dopaminergic neurons in this area. From E14 to E19, calcitonin gene-related peptide messenger RNA was expressed in increasing amounts. We therefore investigated the effects of calcitonin gene-related peptide on serum-free cell cultures established from the E14 midbrain floor. Addition of calcitonin gene-related peptide (200 ng/ml) every other day significantly increased neuronal differentiation, including longer tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurites, enhanced immunoreactivity for growth-associated protein-43 and increased dopaminergic uptake per neuron. These effects were maximal after seven to eight days. Calcitonin gene-related peptide acted synergistically with fibroblast growth factor-2 on these parameters. In contrast to fibroblast growth factor-2, however, calcitonin gene-related peptide did not promote survival of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive neurons. Lack of calcitonin gene-related peptide expression in the mesencephalon at E11 was paralleled by a lack of effect of calcitonin gene-related peptide on early presumptive dopaminergic neurons in terms of eliciting this phenotype. Our data suggest that calcitonin gene-related peptide may act physiologically as a differentiation-promoting factor for phenotypically defined dopaminergic neurons during a time period when dopaminergic neurons assemble in the ventral mesencephalon and grow axons towards their targets.
Neurotrophin-3 promotes the differentiation and supports the survival of neuroblasts derived from the neural crest in early development. Neurotrophin-3 also plays an important role in the differentiation and survival of a subpopulation of large sensory neurons after their axons arrive at their targets. Proprioception and mechanoception are lost after gene deletion of neurotrophin-3 or its high-affinity receptor, TrkC. However, the function of neurotrophin-3 during late development and in mature animals is not clear. We have used an antiserum, specific for neurotrophin-3, to neutralize endogenous neurotrophin-3 in postnatal rats to determine its role in late sensory neuron development. Administration of the antiserum for a period of two weeks, but not one week, resulted in a 20% reduction in the number of primary sensory neurons in the dorsal root ganglia and a 19% reduction in the number of myelinated axons in the saphenous nerve. The size distribution histogram also indicated that a subpopulation of large neurons was lost by the neurotrophin-3 antiserum treatment. This neuronal loss was accompanied by reduced cell soma sizes and weights of the ganglia. Immunoreactivities for calbindin and calretinin were reduced in the trigeminal and dorsal root ganglia and nerve fibres surrounding whisker hair follicles. The number of Merkel cells in touch domes labelled with quinacrine and the number of parvalbumin-immunoreactive neurons in the dorsal root ganglia were significantly reduced by the antibody treatment. In contrast, the number of muscle spindles in the gastrocnemius muscle is not reduced by the neurotrophin-3 antiserum. Together, these results indicate that a subpopulation of primary sensory neurons in the neonatal rat requires neurotrophin-3 for their survival and expression of calcium binding proteins. In addition, Merkel cells in touch domes also require neurotrophin-3 for their survival. Thus, endogenous neurotrophin-3 in neonatal rats is critical for the survival and function of a subpopulation of primary sensory neurons and Merkel cells.
Laminins form a family of large multidomain glycoproteins of the extracellular matrix. The cellular distribution of laminin immunoreactivity in the adult mammalian central nervous system suggests an important role for laminins in mature brain function in addition to their role during brain development. To characterize the effects of this group of extracellular matrix molecules on mature brain function, intracellular recording techniques were applied to in vitro slice preparations of the rat neocortex. The experiments show that a peptide homologous to the C-terminal part of the gamma 1 chain of laminin modulates the electrical activity of pyramidal neurons in the adult neocortex of the rat. The peptide is part of the neurite outgrowth-promoting domain of the gamma 1 chain on the E8 fragment of laminin and it displays the neurite outgrowth-promoting activity of the native laminin molecule. Perfusion of in vitro brain slices with the peptide increased the input resistance of the neuronal membrane. In addition, a rise in inward rectification could be observed. These events were accompanied by a strong increase in direct excitability of the treated neurons. Immunohistochemistry techniques were applied to sections of the adult rat neocortex and hippocampus to demonstrate the presence of both the neurite outgrowth-promoting domain and the native laminin in the adult brain. An antiserum raised against the neurite outgrowth-promoting domain on the gamma 1 chain of laminin, which also recognized the free synthetic peptide, showed immunoreactivity on neurons. In addition, a population of glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive astrocytes in the hippocampus displayed immunoreactivity for this antibody. These results were confirmed by using several antibodies directed against the whole laminin-1 molecule. Neurons in the neocortex and hippocampus, as well as astrocytes in the hippocampus, demonstrated immunoreactivity for antibodies directed against the whole laminin-1 molecule. The results suggest that laminins containing the gamma 1 chain have the potential to modulate neuronal activity. This effect may be mediated either by direct cell-cell contact from surrounding cells, or through the neuronal expression of laminin or laminin-like molecules which are inserted into the neuronal cell membrane.
The contributions of several Ca(2+)-dependent processes to neurotoxicity were examined in primary cultures of rat cortical neurons. The Ca2+ ionophore ionomycin induced a rapid loss of axonal morphology and concomitant release of inositol phosphates that preceded morphological alterations of neuronal cell bodies, choline and arachidonate release, and protein degradation. These events were followed by a degree of neuronal lysis proportional to the external Ca2+ concentration and exposure time. The phospholipase inhibitor neomycin decreased both arachidonate release and the phospholipid hydrolysis catalysed by phospholipases C and D. Proteolysis was abated by the protease inhibitor leupeptin, but not by lysosomal proteolysis inhibitors. Neuronal lysis was inhibited partially by either leupeptin or neomycin and almost completely by both in combination. However, neither agent, alone or in combination, affected the morphological derangements. The diacylglycerol lipase inhibitor RHC-80267 reduced arachidonate release, but not neuronal lysis. Phospholipase A2 inhibitors had no effect on either arachidonate release or lysis. Treatment of mixed cultures of neurons and glia with a Ca(2+)-dependent glutamate challenge caused similar morphological changes and a delayed neuronal lysis that was also diminished by leupeptin and neomycin, but not by inhibitors of lysosomal proteolysis. These data describe several distinct stages of Ca(2+)-dependent injury to cortical neurons, a key feature of which is the stimulation of protease, and phospholipase C and D activities. The initial stage is characterized by a rapid loss of axonal morphology and increased phosphatidylinositol hydrolysis. An intermediate stage involves changes in cell body morphology plus the degradation of neuronal protein and phosphatidylcholine. In a later stage, the loss of plasma membrane integrity denotes neuronal death.
The potential of most N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonists as neuroprotectants is limited by side effects. We previously reported that memantine is an open-channel N-methyl-D-aspartate blocker with a faster off-rate than many uncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonists such as dizocilpine maleate. This parameter correlated with memantine's known clinical tolerability in humans with Parkinson's disease. Memantine is the only N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist that has been used clinically for excitotoxic disorders at neuroprotective doses. Therefore, we wanted to investigate further the basis of its clinical efficacy, safety, and tolerability. Here we show for the first time for any clinically-tolerated N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist that memantine significantly reduces infarct size when administered up to 2 h after induction of hypoxia/ischemia in immature and adult rats. We found that at neuroprotective concentrations memantine results in few adverse side effects. Compared to dizocilpine maleate, memantine displayed virtually no effects on Morris water maze performance or on neuronal vacuolation. At concentrations similar to those in brain following clinical administration, memantine (6-10 microM) did not attenuate long-term potentiation in hippocampal slices and substantially spared the N-methyl-D-aspartate component of excitatory postsynaptic currents, while dizocilpine maleate (6-10 microM) or D-2-amino-5-phosphovalerate (50 microM) completely blocked these phenomena. We suggest that the favorable kinetics of memantine interaction with N-methyl-D-aspartate channels may be partly responsible for its high index of therapeutic safety, and make memantine a candidate drug for use in many N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated human CNS disorders.
Activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors is known to elicit a rise in intracellular Ca2+ and the present study was undertaken to see whether they also modulate the intracellular pH (pHi) of neurons and glia. Measurements of the pHi of neurons and astrocytes were made with the ratiometric fluorescent dye 2',7'-biscarboxyethyl-5,6-carboxyfluorescein. In the absence of bicarbonate, stimulation with the specific metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist 1S,3R-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid caused a fall in pHi in both astrocytes and neurons. In the presence of bicarbonate, stimulation with 25 microM 1S,3R-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid elicited a rise in pHi in the astrocytes, while the neurons responded with a small acidification. The astrocytic alkalinization could also be elicited by the specific group I metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist (S)-3-hydroxyphenylglycine but not by the group II agonist (2S,1'S,2'S)-(2-carboxycyclopropyl)glycine or by the group III agonist L(+)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid. The alkalinization of glial cells could be reduced by preloading the cells with BAPTA, but not by removal of extracellular Ca2+. Depolarization of the astrocytes with potassium elicited a small alkalinization, but stimulation with 100 microM 1S,3R-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid in high potassium medium elicited a further alkalinization. It is concluded that activation of group I metabotropic glutamate receptors leads to an alkalinization of astrocytes by a process that involves an elevation of intracellular Ca2+. The pHi changes that follow activation of the metabotropic glutamate receptors may play a role in initiation of glial proliferation following cerebral injury.
Hypoxia-induced outward currents (hyperpolarization) were examined in hippocampal CA1 neurons of rat brain slices, using the whole-cell recording technique. Hypoxic episodes were induced by perfusing slices with an artificial cerebrospinal fluid aerated with 5% CO2/95% N2 rather than 5% CO2/95% O2, for about 3 min. The hypoxic current was consistently and reproducibly induced in CA1 neurons dialysed with an ATP-free patch pipette solution. This current manifested as an outward shift in the holding current in association with increased conductance, and it reversed at -78 +/- 2.5 mV, with a linear I-V relation in the range of -100 to -40 mV. To provide extra energy resources to individual neurons recorded, agents were added to the patch pipette solution, including MgATP alone, MgATP + phosphocreatine + creatine kinase, or MgATP + creatine. In CA1 neurons dialysed with patch solutions including these agents, hypoxia produced small outward currents in comparison with those observed in CA1 neurons dialysed with the ATP-free solution. Among the above agents examined, whole-cell dialysis with MgATP + creatine was the most effective at decreasing the hypoxic outward currents. We suggest that the hypoxic hyperpolarization is closely related to energy metabolism in individual CA1 neurons, and that the energy supply provided by phosphocreatine metabolism may play a critical role during transient metabolic stress.
Spatial learning and various physiological parameters were examined in old (57 month), middle aged (38 month), adult (18 month) and young (3-3.5 month) male deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus). Performance during acquisition of a water maze task was not significantly reduced for middle aged and adult mice relative to young reproductively active (breeding) mice. Performance was deteriorated in old mice relative to young breeding mice on block 4 of training. Retention of this spatial task, however, was reduced in all three older groups relative to young breeding mice. Corrected hippocampal volume (corrected for brain weight) was reduced only in old mice relative to young breeding mice although absolute volumes of hippocampus were lower in all groups relative to young breeding mice. Old mice also were shown to have lower levels of plasma testosterone and lighter brains relative to young breeding mice. Spatial retention was not deficient in old, middle aged and adult mice relative to a group of young reproductively quiescent male (non-breeding) mice. Young breeding mice displayed better spatial performance and had significantly higher plasma testosterone levels, corrected hippocampal volume and brain weight relative to young non-breeding mice. These results indicate that retention of a spatial task is more sensitive to the age of male deer mice than acquisition of the task. Hippocampal volume, although a gross morphological feature, appears to be sensitive to the effects of ageing in male deer mice. Plasma testosterone levels do not appear to be a crucial factor underlying age-related deficits in retention of a spatial task.
Single-unit spike trains recorded from parietal cortex of monkeys performing a tactile short-term memory task show characteristic fluctuations (transitions) in their firing frequency that are related to memory. Spike trains recorded during the memory period, when the animal must retain information for the short term, show a higher rate of such transitions than spike trains recorded during intertrial baseline periods. In the present study, an analysis of multiple temporal resolutions over which these transitions are observed reveals that the memory-related transitions occur most prominently in the 25-50 Hz range. The results of this study suggest that, in the monkey, high frequency fluctuations of neuronal discharge in the parietal cortex are correlated with haptic short-term memory. The presence of such fluctuations are also consistent with theoretical models of short-term memory.
Thalamic neuronal activity has not been studied in a primate model of peripheral nerve injury. We now report neuronal activity in the region of the human principal sensory nucleus of thalamus (ventralis caudalis) in awake patients during the physiologic exploration that precedes surgical procedures for treatment of stump pain and movement disorders. All patients with amputations showed increased thalamic representations of the stump as reflected in both receptive and projected field maps. This suggested that thalamic re-organization involved both the afferent inputs from and the perceptual representation of the limb. The spontaneous activity of neurons in the region of ventralis caudalis representing the limb with the stump (stump area) was significantly different from that in other areas of the region of ventralis caudalis in patients with amputations (stump control areas) and in patients with movement disorders (control areas). The mean interspike intervals were significantly shorter for cells located in stump areas than for those located in stump control or control areas. Cells in all areas were found to fire in three different patterns: B group (burst) characterized by bursting activity, R group (relay) characterized as a Poisson process, and III group characterized by non-bursting, non-Poisson activity. Cells in the B group were significantly more common in stump control (41%) and stump areas (33%) than in control areas (15%). Bursting cells were found to have patterns consistent with the occurrence of a calcium spike (spike-burst pattern). The spike-burst pattern was most common among cells with receptive fields in the stump area. In these cells firing between bursts (primary event rate) was significantly higher than other cells in the region of ventralis caudalis, suggesting that spike-bursts are not due to hyperpolarization, i.e. low-threshold spikes. Spike-bursts often occur as a result of low-threshold spikes, when the cell is hyperpolarized. In contrast, spike-bursts in these patients were associated with increased interburst firing rates in cells with receptive fields. Thus bursting of these cells may have been due to high-threshold dendritic calcium spikes evoked by afferent input. In that case bursting could be involved in activity-dependent changes in thalamic function following deafferentation through a calcium-mediated mechanism.
We have investigated the distribution of PEP-19, a neuron-specific protein, in the adult human brain. Immunohistochemistry for PEP-19 appears to define the basal ganglia and related structures. The strongest immunoreactivity is seen in the caudate nucleus and putamen, each of which showed both cell body and neuropil PEP-19 immunoreactivity. The substantia nigra and both segments of the globus pallidus showed PEP-19 immunoreactivity only in the neuropil. Cell bodies and dendrites of the thalamic nuclei ventralis lateralis and ventralis anterioralis were less strongly immunoreactive. Cerebellar Purkinje cells and their dendrites were immunoreactive, as were the presubiculum/subiculum regions and dentate gyrus granule cells of the hippocampus. The CA zones of the hippocampus were not immunoreactive. Preliminary data from immunoblotting experiments indicate that PEP-19 immunoreactivity is significantly reduced in cerebellum in Alzheimer's disease. While there were no apparent alterations of immunoreactivity in Down's syndrome or in Parkinson's disease, immunohistochemical analysis showed a massive loss of PEP-19 immunoreactivity in the caudate nucleus, putamen, globus pallidus and substantia nigra in Huntington's disease. These results show that PEP-19, a neuron-specific, calmodulin-binding protein, is distributed in specific areas of the adult human brain. The reduction in PEP-19 immunoreactivity in Alzheimer's disease and Huntington's disease suggests that PEP-19 may play a role in the pathophysiology of these diseases through a mechanism of calcium/calmodulin disregulation. This may be especially apparent in Huntington's disease where the distribution of the product of the abnormal gene, huntingtin, alone is not sufficient to explain the pattern of pathology. Abnormal huntingtin associates more strongly with calmodulin than does normal huntingtin [Bao et al. (1996) Proc. natn. Acad. Sci. U.S.A., 93, 5037-5042] suggesting a disruption of calmodulin-mediated intracellular mechanism(s), very likely involving PEP-19.
Ataxia-telangiectasia is a human autosomal recessive disease characterized by neurodegeneration, cancer predisposition and sensitivity to ionizing radiation. One of the earliest features of this disease is ataxia, which is thought to be attributable to a progressive cerebellar degeneration associated with a disruption of Purkinje cell cytoarchitecture and positioning. To investigate the neuropathology of ataxia-telangiectasia, we used in situ hybridization to map Atm (the gene mutated in ataxia-telangiectasia) expression during mouse development. Atm expression was highest in the embryonic mouse nervous system, where it was predominantly associated with regions undergoing mitosis. During the period of Purkinje cell neurogenesis, Atm was highly expressed in the area containing Purkinje cell precursors (the ventricular zone of the fourth ventricle). However, in the postnatal cerebellum, Atm expression in Purkinje cells was very low, while expression in proliferating granule neurons was high. The only region of the adult nervous system that exhibited elevated Atm expression were the postmitotic sensory neurons of the dorsal root ganglia. The data suggest an early developmental requirement for ATM in the cerebellum, and other regions of the central nervous system, and a potential contribution of the dorsal root ganglia/sensory input pathway to the ataxic phenotype of ataxia-telangiectasia.
Prions are infectious agents widely implicated in a variety of mammalian neurodegenerative diseases generally referred to as transmissible spongiform encephalopathies. Their infectivity is primarily associated with an aberrant conformation of a host-encoded protein, the prion protein, induced by the prion itself in an autocatalytic reaction. The physiological function of this protein is not known. In this paper we suggest that alternative conformations of the prion protein, other than its pathological scrapie state, exist and that the self-sustaining autocatalytic propagation of these states underlies its normal cellular function. In kinetic model calculations we show that the prion protein may constitute a bi-stable molecular switch that can structurally encode and stably store information. A number of cases of prion involvement in normal cellular function and ample molecular detail of pathological prion propagation are cited and correlated to substantiate the implications of this tenet. Our contention is that the prion hypothesis should be extended to a wide variety of physiological processes. We propose that prion proteins are stable determinants of phenotype, operating in diverse functions possibly including memory.
In addition to triggering vasoconstriction of peripheral blood vessels, which led to its discovery as a circulating neurohormone 50 years ago, serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine) acts as a neurotransmitter/ modulator in the central nervous system and regulates local cerebral blood flow and vascular permeability through direct and indirect effects on intraparenchymal microvessels. Among the various 5-hydroxytryptamine receptors which mediate these effects, particular attention has been paid to the 5-hydroxytryptamine1B and 5-hydroxytryptamine1D subtypes, as the preferred targets of modern antimigraine agents. Immunoelectron microscopic labeling of the 5-hydroxytryptamine1B receptor in rat brain parenchyma has revealed a distinct localization to the endothelium of microvessels, which was predominantly cytoplasmic as opposed to membrane-bound, contrary to that on preterminal unmyelinated axons [Riad et al. (1997) Soc. Neurosci. Abstr. 23, 1214]. Similar observations have now been made in human cortical tissue, in which the expected localization of the vascular 5-hydroxytryptamine1B receptor to periarteriolar myocytes was also confirmed. Such a dual localization in human brain microvessels suggests that the 5-hydroxytryptamine1B receptor might mediate opposite effects, vasodilatory and contractile, depending upon its activation by circulating or centrally released 5-hydroxytryptamine. It raises new possibilities as regards 5-hydroxytryptamine effects on human brain microvessels in health and disease, and notably the triggering of migraine headache.
The neural substrates of learning and memory most likely involve activity-dependent long-term changes in synaptic strength, including long-term potentiation and long-term depression. A critical element in the cascade of events hypothesized to underlie such changes in synaptic function is modification of protein phosphorylation. Long-term depression is thought to involve decreases in protein phosphorylation, which could result from reduction in protein kinase activity and/or enhancement in protein phosphatase activity. We present here direct evidence that long-term depression in the hippocampus in vivo is associated with an increase in the activity of the serine/threonine phosphatases 1 and 2A. The increase in activity of phosphatase 1 was transient, whereas that of phosphatase 2A lasted &gt; 65 min after the induction of long-term depression. Blockade of long-term depression prevented the observed increases in phosphatase activity, as did selective inhibition of phosphatase 1 and 2A. Induction of long-term depression had no effect on the level of either phosphatase, which suggests that our results reflect increases in the intrinsic activity of these two enzymes. Our findings are consistent with a model of synaptic plasticity that implicates protein dephosphorylation by serine/threonine phosphatases in the early maintenance and/or expression of long-term depression of synaptic strength.
The following issues are further addressed: (1) Is there considerable leakage of amino acids from the circulation into the space around microdialysis probes, or are amino acid concentrations naturally much higher in the interstitial space than is generally thought? (2) Do observed high interstitial concentrations or depletion of substances in the intracellular space by microdialysis affect release measurements upon spinal cord injury? Amino acid concentrations around microdialysis fibres in the spinal cord of rats were found to approach those in the circulation and to be much higher than interstitial concentrations previously estimated in the CNS. However, much lower concentrations of amino acids were derived in the hippocampus by analogous experiments. Considerable Evans Blue/albumin leaked from the circulation into the interstitial space in the spinal cord immediately after fibre insertion. However, this movement diminished considerably by 4 h later, demonstrating substantial resealing of the blood-brain barrier, at least to large molecules. There is either substantial damage-induced movement of amino acids from the circulation into the dialysis zone after insertion of a microdialysis probe, or there is much less impediment to movement of amino acids across the blood-brain barrier in the spinal cord than in the brain. At low flow rates through the fibre, adding concentrations of amino acids to the inside of the fibre equal to the concentrations around the fibre to prevent their depletion by removal through the microdialysis fibre did not affect increases in concentrations of amino acids in microdialysates following injury. Thus the high concentrations of amino acids present around microdialysis fibres following their insertion do not seem to disturb measurements of amino acid release upon spinal cord injury.
Metabotropic glutamate receptors, which are linked via G-proteins to second messenger systems, have been implicated in the physiological regulation of dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta as well as in neurodegeneration. Of the eight known metabotropic glutamate receptors, metabotropic glutamate receptor 1 is the most abundant subtype in the substantia nigra pars compacta. Metabotropic glutamate receptor 1 is alternatively spliced at the carboxy terminal region to yield five variants: 1a, 1b, 1c, 1d and a form recently identified in human brain, 1g. We used an antibody recognizing metabotropic glutamate receptor 1, and another recognizing the splice form la only, to study the localization of these receptors in dopaminergic neurons identified by the presence of tyrosine hydroxylase. Metabotropic glutamate receptor immunoreactivity was present within the somata, axons, and dendrites of substantia nigra pars compacta neurons. The 1a splice form specific antibody, however, did not label these cells, suggesting that they express a metabotropic glutamate receptor 1 splice form different from 1a. In situ hybridization with splice form-specific oligonucleotide probes was used to determine which of the other known metabotropic glutamate receptor 1 splice forms might be present in the substantia nigra pars compacta. Each probe produced a very distinct labelling pattern in the rat brain with the exception of the 1g specific probe which produced only background signal. Substantia nigra pars compacta neurons were most intensely labelled by the metabotropic glutamate receptor 1d splice form specific probe. Metabotropic glutamate receptor 1a was expressed weakly whereas there was no detectable 1b, c, or g signal in the substantia nigra pars compacta. These data demonstrate that metabotropic glutamate receptor 1 protein is present within the perikarya and processes of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta. The majority of this protein is not the 1a splice form, which is abundant in other brain regions, and may be the 1d isoform. Since splicing alters the carboxy terminus of the receptor, it is likely to affect the interaction of the receptor with intracellular signalling systems.
This investigation examined dopamine release and metabolism in nucleus accumbens core and shell during three operant tasks in the rat. Rats were trained to lever press on a fixed-ratio 5, variable-interval 30 s, or a tandem variable interval 30/fixed-ratio 5 schedules; these three schedules were chosen because they generate a wide range of response and reinforcement rates. After several weeks of training, dialysis probes were implanted into nucleus accumbens core or shell subregions. A single 30 min behavioural session was conducted during the dialysis test session. Rats lever pressing on each of the three operant schedules showed a significant increase in extracellular dopamine relative to the food-deprived control group during the behavioural session. In addition, increases in dopamine in nucleus accumbens shell were found to be significantly greater than in the core during the lever pressing period. Across all three schedules, extracellular dopamine in the nucleus accumbens was significantly correlated with the number of lever presses performed, but was not correlated with the number of food pellets delivered. Analysis of covariance, which used amount of food consumed as the covariate, showed an overall group difference, indicating that dopamine levels increased in lever pressing animals even if one corrected for the amount of food consumed. These results indicate that dopamine release was more responsive in the nucleus accumbens shell than in the core during operant responding, and that increases in extracellular dopamine in nucleus accumbens are related to response rate rather than reinforcement magnitude.
Clonal neurohybridoma NCB-20 cells express a valproate-insensitive succinic semialdehyde reductase activity that transforms succinic semialdehyde into gamma-hydroxybutyrate. This activity (1.14+/-0.16 nmol/min/mg protein) was similar to the lowest activity existing in adult rat brain. [3H]gamma-Hydroxybutyrate labels a homogeneous population of sites on NCB-20 cell membranes (Kd=250+/-44.4nM, Bmax=180+/-16.2fmol/mg protein) that apparently represents specific gamma-hydroxybutyrate binding sites characterized previously on brain cell membranes. Finally, an Na+-dependent uptake of [3H]gamma-hydroxybutyrate was expressed in NCB-20 cells with a Km of 35+21.1 microM and a Vmax of 80+/-14.2 pmol/min/mg protein. A three-day treatment with 1 mM dibutyryl-cyclic-AMP induced a three-fold increase in the cellular succinic semialdehyde reductase activity. In parallel, a K+-evoked release of [3H]gamma-hydroxybutyrate occurred. This release was Ca2+ dependent and was not present in undifferentiated cells. Cyclic-AMP treatment induced a decrease of [3H]gamma-hydroxybutyrate binding sites, which could be due to spontaneous gamma-hydroxybutyrate release. Patch-clamp experiments carried out on differentiated NCB-20 cells revealed the presence of Ca2+ conductances which were partially inhibited by 50 microM gamma-hydroxybutyrate. This gamma-hydroxybutyrate-induced effect was blocked by the gamma-hydroxybutyrate receptor antagonist NCS-382, but not by the GABA(B) antagonist CGP-55845. These results demonstrate the presence of an active gamma-hydroxybutyratergic system in NCB-20 cells which possesses the ability to release gamma-hydroxybutyrate. These cells express specific gamma-hydroxybutyrate receptors which modulate Ca2+ currents independently of GABA(B) receptors.
Quantitative receptor autoradiography was used to map alterations in binding to alpha1-, alpha2-, beta1- and beta2-adrenergic receptors throughout the brain of rats deprived of rapid eye movement sleep for 96 h. Binding of [3H]prazosin to alpha1 sites, while not significantly different in any of 46 brain regions examined, showed a clear overall tendency towards decreased values after sleep deprivation. [3H]UK-14,314-labeled alpha2 binding sites were not significantly affected by sleep deprivation in any of 91 brain regions analysed, despite a trend towards increased values. In contrast, beta-adrenergic binding was significantly reduced throughout the brain. Binding to beta1 sites labeled by [125I]iodopindolol in the presence of ICI-11855 was significantly reduced in 13 of 69 brain areas examined; binding to beta2 sites labeled by [125I]iodopindolol in the presence of CGP-20712A was likewise reduced throughout the brain and significantly so in 25 of the 72 brain areas analysed. Rank ordering of the binding changes indicated that reductions in beta1 vs beta2 binding were maximal in different brain areas. This pattern of results may reflect a particular configuration of effects specifically associated with sleep loss stress. The results are consistent with evidence of persisting noradrenergic cell activity during sleep deprivation. The observed heterogeneity of effects suggests that not all norepinephrine receptors are equally affected by rapid eye movement sleep deprivation.
Dispersed cells of rat suprachiasmatic nucleus were cultured for more than a month with chemically defined medium. Arginine vasopressin and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide in the culture medium showed robust circadian rhythms starting 24 h after the cell dissociation. The two rhythms had similar periods, with a phase-lead of the vasoactive intestinal polypeptide peaks to the arginine vasopressin peak of about 1 h. The two rhythms remained two weeks later, with both peaks appearing at almost the same time, suggesting the synchronization of the two rhythms. Significant differences in cell architecture were detected depending on precoating matrices of culture dishes, which did not affect the circadian rhythms of arginine vasopressin and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide. Antimitotic treatment at the beginning of the culture not only reduced the number, but also changed the type of glial cells developed. The treatment did not interrupt the synchronized arginine vasopressin and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide rhythms until day 31. Early appearance of circadian rhythms indicates that neural networks in the suprachiasmatic nucleus are not necessary for the synchronous release of arginine vasopressin and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide. Glial proliferation is not essential for the generation, expression and synchronization of arginine vasopressin and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide rhythms in the dispersed suprachiasmatic nucleus cell culture.
Three human and mouse genes encoding alpha2-adrenoceptor subtypes (alpha2A, alpha2B, and alpha2C) have been cloned. The alpha2C-adrenoceptor is the most abundant alpha2-adrenoceptor subtype in the striatum and modulates metabolism of both dopamine and serotonin. To investigate the possible involvement of the alpha2C-adrenoceptor subtype in behaviours regulated by dopamine and serotonin, two strains of genetically-engineered mice were examined. One had a targeted inactivation of the alpha2C-adrenoceptor gene, and the other had tissue-specific over-expression of alpha2C-adrenoceptors. The locomotor activity of the mice was evaluated after stimulation with D-amphetamine, and the behavioural serotonin syndrome and head twitches were investigated after L-5-hydroxytryptophan treatment. In addition, the effects of D-amphetamine and L-5-hydroxytryptophan were studied after pretreatment with dexmedetomidine, a subtype-nonselective alpha2-adrenoceptor agonist. The lack of alpha2C-adrenoceptor expression increased and the over-expression of alpha2C-adrenoceptors decreased the response to D-amphetamine stimulation. The effect of alpha2C-adrenoceptor gene inactivation was more prominent in D-amphetamine-treated males than in females. Dexmedetomidine inhibited D-amphetamine-induced hyperlocomotion and the L-5-hydroxytryptophan-induced serotonin syndrome, but the inhibition was attenuated in mice lacking alpha2C-adrenoceptors. However, the head twitches induced by L-5-hydroxytryptophan were effectively inhibited by dexmedetomidine in all studied mice, which suggests that alpha2A-adrenoceptors mediate the inhibition of the head twitch response. The results lend further support to the proposed existence of functionally distinct alpha2-adrenoceptor subtypes that can serve as new and specific therapeutic targets in various neuropsychiatric diseases.
To investigate whether acetylcholine is released in a similar fashion in different regions of the cortex, in vivo microdialysis was used to measure acetylcholine efflux simultaneously in the medial prefrontal and the frontoparietal cortex, under both basal conditions and following tactile stimulation. Additionally, the effects of including two different concentrations (0.05 microM and 0.5 microM) of a cholinesterase inhibitor (neostigmine) in the perfusion fluid were assessed. Basal levels of acetylcholine (i.e. during non-stimulated sessions) were similar in medial prefrontal and frontoparietal areas. Tactile stimulation reliably increased acetylcholine efflux in a similar fashion (up to 140% increase above baseline) in both cortical areas studied. Predictably, the higher concentration of neostigmine (0.5 microM) increased basal acetylcholine efflux by about 150% from levels observed with the lower neostigmine concentration (0.05 microM), but the concentration of local neostigmine had no effect on either the magnitude or the duration of the increased acetylcholine efflux following tactile stimulation. These results suggest that the pattern of acetylcholine release may be comparable in different areas of the cortex, supporting the idea that cholinergic projections from the basal forebrain to the cortex represent a globally regulated system. Furthermore, while the inclusion of neostigmine in perfusion fluid must be taken into account when interpreting acetylcholine efflux data, it appears that concentrations of up to 0.5 microM do not interfere fundamentally with the lability of cortical acetylcholine efflux in response to behavioural stimulation.
The potential influence of GABAergic input to cholinergic basalis neurons was studied in guinea-pig basal forebrain slices. GABA and its agonists were applied to electrophysiologically-identified cholinergic neurons, of which some were labelled with biocytin and confirmed to be choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive. Immunohistochemistry for glutamate decarboxylase was also performed in some slices and revealed GABAergic varicosities in the vicinity of the biocytin-filled soma and dendrites of electrophysiologically-identified cholinergic cells. From rest (average - 63 mV), the cholinergic cells were depolarized by GABA. The depolarization was associated with a decrease in membrane resistance and diminution in firing. The effect was mimicked by muscimol, the specific agonist for GABA(A) receptors, and not by baclofen, the specific agonist for GABA(B) receptors, which had no discernible effect. The GABA- and muscimol-evoked depolarization and decrease in resistance were found to be postsynaptic since they persisted in the presence of solutions containing either high Mg2+/low Ca2+ or tetrodotoxin. They were confirmed as being mediated by a GABA(A) receptor, since they were antagonized by bicuculline. The reversal potential for the muscimol effect was estimated to be approximately -45 mV, which was -15 mV above the resting membrane potential. Finally, in some cholinergic cells, spontaneous subthreshold depolarizing synaptic potentials (average 5 mV in amplitude), which were rarely associated with action potentials, were recorded and found to persist in the presence of glutamate receptor antagonists but to be eliminated by bicuculline. These results suggest that GABAergic input may be depolarizing, yet predominantly inhibitory to cholinergic basalis neurons.
The cytoplasmic free calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) was measured in cultured microglial cells with the Ca2+-sensitive fluorescent dye Fura-2 using a digital imaging system. Stimulation of P2 purinergic receptors by ATP or UTP always evoked a [Ca2+]i elevation. The ATP-induced Ca2+ response involved both Ca2+ influx through ionotropic receptors and Ca2+ release from intracellular pools, whereas UTP selectively stimulated intracellular Ca2+ release. When intracellular Ca2+ release was stimulated in the absence of extracellular Ca2+, the readmission of extracellular Ca2+ caused a large rebound [Ca2+]i increase. Following this rebound, [Ca2+]i did not return to the initial resting level, but remained for long periods of time (up to 20 min), at a new, higher steady-state level. Both the amplitude of the rebound Ca2+ transient and the new plateau level strongly correlated with the degree of intracellular Ca2+ depletion, indicating the activation of a store-operated Ca2+ entry pathway. The elevated steady-state [Ca2+]i level was associated with a significant increase in the plasma membrane permeability to Ca2+, as changes in extracellular Ca2+ were reflected in almost immediate changes of [Ca2+]i. Similarly, blocking plasma-lemmal Ca2+ channels with the non-specific agonist La3+ (50 microM) caused a decrease in [Ca2+]i, despite the continuous presence of Ca2+ ions in the extracellular medium. After the establishment of the new, elevated steady-state [Ca2+]i level, stimulation of P2U metabotropic purinoreceptors did not induce a [Ca2+]i response. In addition, application of either thapsigargin (1 microM) or carbonyl cyanide chlorophenyl hydrazone (10 microM) failed to affect [Ca2+]i. We conclude that the maximal depletion of intracellular Ca2+ stores in mouse brain microglia determines the long-term activation of a plasma membrane Ca2+ entry pathway. This activation appears to be associated with a significant decrease in the capability of the intracellular Ca2+ stores to take up cytosolic Ca2+ once they have been maximally depleted.
In astrocytes, raising intracellular Ca2+ concentration is a principal mechanism for transducing extracellular signals following activation of cell-surface receptors. Receptors that may be activated by purine nucleotides, P2 receptors, are known to be expressed by astrocytes from dorsal spinal cord; these astrocytes express two distinct subtypes of P2 receptor, P2Y and P2U. A main goal of the present study was to determine the intracellular signalling pathways mediating the Ca2+ responses produced by stimulating these receptors. Experiments were done using cultured astrocytes from rat dorsal spinal cord. Ca2+ responses were evoked by 2-methylthio-ATP or UTP, nucleotides previously shown to selectively activate P2Y and P2U receptors, respectively, in these cells. P2Y- and P2U-evoked Ca2+ responses were found not to depend upon extracellular Ca2+ and were blocked by thapsigargin, a Ca2+-ATPase inhibitor known to deplete inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate-sensitive Ca2+ stores. Intracellular application of the inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate-sensitive receptor antagonist, heparin, or of the G-protein inhibitor guanosine 5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate), blocked the P2Y- and P2U-evoked Ca2+ responses. Moreover, the responses were prevented by the phospholipase C inhibitor, U-73122, but were unaffected by the inactive analogue, U-73343. These results indicate that P2Y and P2U receptors on dorsal spinal astrocytes are linked via G-protein coupling to release of intracellular Ca2+ via the phospholipase C/inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate pathway. When we assessed the releasable pools of intracellular Ca2+, by repeated agonist applications in zero extracellular Ca2+, we found that the pool accessed by activating P2U receptors was only a subpool of that accessed by activating P2Y receptors. This implies that there are separable inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate-releasable pools of Ca2+ in dorsal spinal astrocytes and that these may be differentially released by activating distinct metabotropic P2 receptors. This differential release of Ca2+ may be important for physiological as well as pathophysiological events occurring within the spinal cord.
Human neuroblastoma TGW cells express a C5a anaphylatoxin receptor-like molecule termed neuronal C5a receptor. A C5a-receptor fragment peptide (termed PR226-multiple antigenic peptide) can induce rapid apoptosis in TGW cells via neuronal C5a receptor-associated signal transduction pathways. In order to analyse role of activated complement system in neurodegeneration, TGW cells were exposed to an oligomer form of a C5a fragment (amino acids: 37-53) peptide termed PL37-multiple antigenic peptide. Upon treatment with PL37-multiple antigenic peptide, an increased nuclear c-fos expression was shown within 30 min. DNA fragmentation, a hallmark of apoptosis, was noted within 4 h. Extracellular administration of 100 nM PL37-multiple antigenic peptide evoked inward calcium current pulses. At higher doses (0.5 microM-1 microM), PL37-multiple antigenic peptide evoked higher current pulses, followed by an irreversible, high inward current. To exert its apoptotic effect, PL37-multiple antigenic peptide utilizes a pertussis toxin-sensitive signal transduction pathway associated with the neuronal C5a receptor. Activation of the complement system and therefore release of C5a has already been reported in Alzheimer's disease. In addition, the presence of the Kunitz-type proteinase inhibitors indicates an impaired protease function and a possible abnormal fragmentation of C5a anaphylatoxin. Our data suggest that neurons expressing neuronal C5a receptor are more vulnerable to the apoptosis associated with the neuronal C5a receptor and the possibility that abnormal activation of C5a receptor and C5a anaphylatoxin fragments might be involved in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease.
It is generally agreed that naturally-occurring neuronal death in developing animals is dependent on the synthesis of proteins. Oxidative stress, as when intracellular concentrations of free radicals are raised or when cell constituents such as membrane lipids or protein thiols are oxidized, is also involved in various types of neuronal death. In the present report, we show that the number of naturally dying retinal cells in the chick embryo can be reduced by intraocular injections of cycloheximide, an inhibitor of protein synthesis. L-buthionine-[S,R]-sulfoximine, an inhibitor of glutathione synthesis, can either enhance or diminish the cell death, depending on the conditions of treatment. Moreover, when the two inhibitors are combined, L-buthionine-[S,R]-sulfoximine potentiates the neuroprotective effects of cycloheximide. Measurements of retinal glutathione concentration and protein synthesis show the specificity of the treatments: buthionine-sulfoximine diminishes glutathione concentrations but not protein synthesis whereas cycloheximide inhibits protein synthesis without decreasing glutathione concentrations. Naturally-occurring neuronal death thus seems to involve the synthesis of proteins, and is also influenced by oxidative phenomena. Our results extend previous data in tectal-lesioned embryos, and suggest that a moderate, non-lethal oxidative stress can enhance the resistance of ganglion cells that might otherwise have died (spontaneously or following axotomy) owing to insufficient retrograde trophic support.
Throughout life, olfactory sensory neurons are renewed from a population of dividing stem cells. Little is known about the molecular mechanisms that regulate the activation, self-renewal and differentiation of olfactory neuronal precursors; however, evidence indicates that soluble mediators may play a central role in olfactory neurogenesis. To identify molecules that regulate olfactory self-renewal and differentiation, we have recently established, cloned and propagated in vitro primary long-term cell cultures from the human fetal olfactory neuroepithelium. Here we show that primary human olfactory neuroblasts synthesize and release biologically active basic fibroblast growth factor which, in turn, supports neuroblast growth by autocrine/paracrine mechanisms. The growth-promoting activity of basic fibroblast growth factor is dose dependent and is accompanied by morphological changes of the cells and by an increase in the expression of neuronal-related genes. These observations indicate that endogenous basic fibroblast growth factor participates in controlling olfactory self-renewal and suggest that this cytokine represents a key regulatory element of olfactory neurogenesis.
Activin and its cognate receptors are expressed during embryogenesis in the rapidly dividing cells of the basal forebrain ventricular zone. This finding prompted us to study the role of activin in regulating neurotransmitter phenotype expression and other aspects of the ventricular zone-derived progenitor cell differentiation. Although virtually ineffective alone, activin co-operated with fibroblast growth factor 2 to induce a rapid tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactivity in cultured ventricular zone progenitors. Northern analysis indicated that the increase in tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactivity was associated with increased tyrosine hydroxylase gene expression. Activin and fibroblast growth factor 2 action was specific to tyrosine hydroxylase, as it did not induce the expression of choline acetyltransferase, nor enhance the expression of glutamate decarboxylase. Cultures treated with the DNA replication marker bromodeoxyuridine revealed that both proliferating ventricular zone progenitors and their post-mitotic progeny were induced to express tyrosine hydroxylase. In these cultures, activin acted to reduce fibroblast growth factor 2 stimulated mitotic activity. Furthermore, activin permitted neuronal differentiation and survival of the ventricular zone progenitors after three days in vitro. Together these data demonstrate a novel role of activin and fibroblast growth factor 2 in regulating the fate of the embryonic basal forebrain ventricular zone progenitors.
Kainate is a potent agonist of an excitatory amino acid receptor subtype in the central nervous system, and causes neuronal death in several regions of the brain. Neurons are preferentially killed in the hippocampus, especially in the CA1 region, by systemic administration of kainate. It is speculated that functional alterations occur in the neurons preceding death. We examined the effect of FK506 on kainate-induced neuronal death and functional alterations in the rat hippocampal CA1 region. FK506 had no effect on electrographic and behavioral seizure activities induced by kainate; however, it prevented neuronal death measured seven days after administration. Although neither death nor morphological alterations of neurons were observed in the CA1 region 24 h after administration, the neurons exhibited decreased excitatory postsynaptic potentials and enhanced long-term potentiation. This functional alteration was not detected in the rats administered FK506 prior to kainate. Taken together, these observations indicate that functional alteration precedes neuronal death in rats systemically administered kainate and that FK506 prevents both. It is suggested that FK506 exerts its neuroprotective effect not by attenuating electrographic and behavioral seizure activities, but by protecting neurons from kainate-induced functional disorders.
Hydrocephalus is associated with gradual progressive impairment and destruction of cerebral axons and neurons. Growth associated protein-43 appears to be permissive for neuro-axonal regeneration and synaptic remodeling. Hydrocephalus was induced in three-week-old rats by injection of kaolin into the cisterna magna. Compared to controls, cerebral growth-associated protein-43 messenger RNA was significantly up-regulated one week after kaolin injection and the overall cerebral growth-associated protein-43 protein level was significantly higher at four weeks when the ventricles were severely enlarged. One and three weeks after kaolin injection, growth-associated protein-43-like immunoreactivity was increased in periventricular axons, and also in the cerebral cortex at three weeks. Hydrocephalic rats that had been treated by shunting after one week, exhibited growth-associated protein-43 messenger RNA and protein levels intermediate between hydrocephalic rats and control rats. The increase in periventricular axon growth-associated protein-43, early in the course of experimental hydrocephalus, suggests that through early intervention there may be a chance for preventing or reversing the axonal injury. Cortical expression of growth associated protein-43 suggests that an alteration in synaptogenesis may also occur.
Neuropeptide Y is the most abundant peptide in the mammalian central nervous system and exhibits a variety of potent neurobiological functions. In the present study, double immunolabelling histochemistry was performed, using previously characterized antibodies against neuropeptide Y and the neuropeptide Y Y1 receptor subtype, to clarify the cellular distribution of Y1 receptors in the rat brain in relation to the neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive systems. Based on fluorescence and confocal laser microscopy analysis, morphological evidence is presented that the perikaryal and dendritic Y1 receptor-like immunoreactivity demonstrated in discrete regions of the tel-, diencephalon and of the lower brain stem, shown to be cytoplasmic and membrane associated, in many brain regions is not co-distributed with the neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive terminal network. These findings may partly be explained by the existence of volume transmission in Y1 receptor-mediated neuropeptide Y transmission involving short to long distance diffusion and/or convection of neuropeptide Y from its site of release to the neuronal target cells, containing the high-affinity Y1 receptors. Furthermore, neuropeptide Y and Y1 receptor-like immunoreactivities were in no case co-localized in the same nerve cell, suggesting that, in the rat brain, the Y1 receptor subtype may not be a neuropeptide Y autoreceptor.
trkB is a high-affinity receptor for brain-derived neurotrophic factor, a neurotrophin acting on numerous cells, including dopaminergic neurons. Yet, little is known of its expression in the human brain. We report an in situ hybridization analysis of trkB messenger RNA, encoding the catalytic form of the receptor, in the human brain post mortem. Its expression was found to be widespread but heterogeneous among all the cerebral structures studied, the highest level being found in the cerebral cortex and the cerebellum. A strong but less intense staining was observed in the striatum, nucleus basalis of Meynert, hippocampus, tegmental pedonculopontinus nucleus and substantia nigra pars compacta. Combined immunohistochemistry for tyrosine hydroxylase and in situ hybridization for trkB messenger RNA showed that within the substantia nigra pars compacta a major proportion of dopaminergic neurons expressed trkB messenger RNA. Furthermore, we compared trkB messenger RNA expression in the mesencephalon of six control subjects and five patients with Parkinson's disease, a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by a severe loss of dopaminergic neurons. Despite the fact that the number of trkB messenger RNA-containing neurons was dramatically reduced in the substantia nigra pars compacta and ventral tegmental area of patients with Parkinson's disease, the level of trkB messenger RNA was unchanged in the remaining neurons in diseased brains. These results suggests that trkB is not involved in the process of neuronal death in Parkinson's disease. Furthermore, expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor high-affinity receptor in patients could allow this neurotrophin to be used to prevent degeneration of surviving neurons at early stages of the disease.
Electrophysiologically identified mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons were examined by means of extra- and intracellular microelectrodes in coronal slices of guinea-pig brain. Neurotensin and its C-terminal fragment (8-13) were equipotent in the enhancement of spontaneous neuronal firing rate (EC50 values 81.9 and 72.6nM, respectively). The duration of response was significantly longer and more variable for neurotensin compared to neurotensin fragment (8-13) (mean half-time of recovery 423+/-44 and 100+/-14 s, respectively, for peptides applied at 300 nM). The initial fast phase of excitatory responses to neurotensin receptor agonists was associated with membrane depolarization (when assessed in current-clamp mode) or with inward currents (when assessed in voltage-clamp mode), whereas prolonged excitation was associated with a slowly occurring and long-lasting change in the late afterhyperpolarization. Two kinetically distinct components were revealed in responses to neurotensin and neurotensin fragment (8-13) by the use of SR48692 and SR142948, two selective non-peptide neurotensin receptor antagonists. SR142948 (100 nM) potently antagonized responses to both agonists [response was reduced by 661 5% and 74+/-9% for neurotensin and neurotensin fragment (8-13), respectively] and caused a rightward shift in the concentration-response curve for neurotensin. On the other hand, SR48692 (100 nM) selectively inhibited the slow (late afterhyperpolarization-dependent) component, without altering the response amplitude; the half-time of recovery was reduced by 71+/-6% and 65+/-5% of control values for responses induced by neurotensin (300 nM) and neurotensin fragment (8-13) (300 nM), respectively. In addition, neurotensin, but not neurotensin fragment (8-13), provoked SR48692-sensitive and long-lasting attenuation of dopamine-induced inhibitory responses. It is suggested that two subtypes of neurotensin receptors are present in dopaminergic neurons, based on the differences in agonist and antagonist sensitivity, kinetic properties and the membrane mechanisms involved.
Neurons expressing preprotachykinin A and preprotachykinin B, which are the precursor prepropeptides of substance P and neurokinin B (neuromedin K), respectively, were characterized immunocytochemically in the rat neocortex. Antibodies raised against C-terminal portions of preprotachykinins were used for labeling cell bodies of preprotachykinin-producing neurons. Neurons immunoreactive for preprotachykinin B were encountered four times more frequently in the neocortex than those immunoreactive for preprotachykinin A. Preprotachykinin A-immunoreactive neurons were scattered more frequently in the deep cortical layers (layers IV-VI) than in the superficial layers (layers I-III), whereas preprotachykinin B-immunoreactive neurons were distributed more frequently in the superficial layers than in the deep layers. Almost all preprotachykinin-expressing neurons were immunoreactive for GABA, suggesting that they were non-pyramidal cells. However, co-expression of the two preprotachykinin immunoreactivities in single neurons was not found. Preprotachykinin-expressing neocortical neurons were further examined with markers for subpopulations of GABAergic cortical neurons. Immunoreactivities for parvalbumin, calbindin and somatostatin were found in 69%, 27% and 11%, respectively, of preprotachykinin A-immunoreactive neurons. Conversely, preprotachykinin A-immunoreactive neurons constituted only 6% of parvalbumin-immunoreactive neurons, 4% of calbindin-immunoreactive neurons and 1% of somatostatin-immunoreactive neurons. Immunoreactivities for calretinin, choline acetyltransferase, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, corticotropin-releasing factor and cholecystokinin were detected in 13-39% of preprotachykinin B-immunoreactive neurons. Preprotachykinin B immunoreactivity was seen in 33% of calretinin-positive neurons, 45% of cholinergic neurons, 47% of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-positive neurons, 59% of corticotropin-releasing factor-positive neurons and 83% of cholecystokinin-positive neurons. These results indicate that preprotachykinin A- and preprotachykinin B-expressing neurons constitute separate populations of GABAergic non-pyramidal neurons in the neocortex. Since receptors for substance P and neurokinin B are expressed in GABAergic neurons [Kaneko T. et al. (1994) Neuroscience 60, 199-211] and pyramidal neurons [Ding Y. Q. et al. (1996) J. comp. Neurol. 364, 290-310], respectively, cortical neurons may use two separate lines of tachykinin signals; substance P serves as a signal between GABAergic non-pyramidal neurons, whereas neurokinin B acts as a signal of GABAergic neurons to pyramidal neurons.
Kynurenic acid is an excitatory amino acid antagonist with preferential activity at the N-methyl-D-aspartate subtype of glutamate receptors. It is produced endogenously in the brain, but is synthesized more effectively in the periphery. The influence of peripheral kynurenic acid on brain function is unclear because kynurenic acid is likely to penetrate the blood-brain barrier poorly. To determine the potential central effects of peripheral kynurenic acid, we compared its effects in the hippocampus after peripheral or direct administration. The hippocampus of the rat was chosen as a test system because this region receives glutamatergic inputs, and because responses to stimulation of these inputs can be compared after peripheral drug administration in vivo, and after direct administration of drugs in vitro. Peripherally-administered kynurenic acid was injected via a catheter in the jugular vein. Bath-application to hippocampal slices was used to test effects of direct administration. Area CA1 pyramidal cells and dentate gyrus granule cells were examined by extracellular recording and stimulation of area CA3 or the perforant path, respectively. Pairs of identical stimuli were used to assess paired-pulse inhibition and paired-pulse facilitation. Kynurenic acid decreased evoked responses in area CA1 and the dentate gyrus, both in vivo and in vitro. Effective concentrations were in the low micromolar range, and therefore were likely to be mediated by antagonism of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. In both preparations, area CA1 was more sensitive than the dentate gyrus, and paired-pulse facilitation was affected, but not paired-pulse inhibition. Control solutions had no effect. We conclude that kynurenic acid can enter the brain after peripheral administration, and that peripheral and direct effects in the hippocampus are qualitatively similar. Therefore, we predict that effects of endogenous kynurenic acid that was synthesized peripherally or centrally would be similar. Furthermore, the results suggest that modulation of the glycine site of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor, for example by kynurenic acid, may vary considerably among different brain areas.
Casein kinase 2 is present in the brain, including the hippocampus. It is associated with long-term potentiation and is known to be involved in phosphorylation of proteins potentially important for neuroplasticity, but regulation of its activity in neuronal cells is not yet known. In the present work, it was found that brain-derived neurotrophic factor and neurotrophin-4 control the activity of casein kinase 2 in hippocampal slices of adult rat. It is shown that: (i) treatment of slices for 4 h with the neurotrophins results in a five-fold increase in the activity of cytosolic casein kinase 2; (ii) this effect does not require protein synthesis. In addition, using calcium chelators, phospholipase inhibitors and protein kinase inhibitors, evidence is provided that: (i) neurotrophin-induced activation of casein kinase 2 is dependent on the availability of intracellular calcium due to stimulation of phospholipase C; (ii) both a tyrosine kinase(s) and a serine/threonine kinase(s) convey the signal of calcium. Since there is now accumulating evidence for involvement of brain-derived neurotrophic factor, intracellular calcium, tyrosine kinases and serine/threonine kinases in the regulation of synaptic plasticity, it is suggested that the signalling cascade detected here might contribute to control of synaptic strength in the hippocampus.
The modulatory effects of endogenous serotonin on the synaptic transmission and epileptiform activity were studied in the rat hippocampus with the use of extracellular and intracellular recording techniques. Field excitatory postsynaptic potential was reversibly depressed by serotonin in a concentration-dependent manner. Intracellular recordings revealed that serotonin-mediated synaptic depression was unaffected by extracellular Ba2+ or intracellular application of Cs+ while the postsynaptic hyperpolarizing effect was completely blocked. Epileptiform activity induced by picrotoxin (50 microM), a GABA(A) receptor antagonist, was also dose-dependently suppressed by serotonin. The antiepileptic effect was mimicked by 5-hydroxytryptamine1A agonist and was blocked by 5-hydroxytryptamine1A antagonists. 5-Hydroxytryptamine2 antagonist had no effect on the modulation. Similarly, fluoxetine, a selective serotonin re-uptake blocker, potently inhibited the epileptiform activity and this effect was blocked by 5-hydroxytryptamine1A receptor antagonist. Depletion of endogenous serotonin by pretreating the slices with p-chloroamphetamine completely prevented the antiepileptic action of fluoxetine, without modifying the action of serotonin in the same cells. These results suggest that the antiepileptic action of fluoxetine is due to an enhancement of endogenous serotonin which in turn is mediated by 5-hydroxytryptamine1A receptor. Endogenous serotonin transmission in the hippocampus is therefore capable of limiting the development and propagation of seizure activity.
Our previous studies have shown that a single injection of kainic acid into the dorsal hippocampus of adult mice resulted in hypertrophy of the dentate gyrus granule cells. This hypertrophy was correlated with a long-lasting increase of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA, and prevented by anti-sense brain-derived neurotrophic factor oligonucleotide treatment. These results suggest that an increase of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA may be a major trigger of granule cells enlargement. However, the level of messenger RNA of Trk B, the high-affinity receptor of brain-derived neurotrophic factor, was not increased significantly, raising the question of whether increased brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA level leads actually to an increased protein production. The objective of the present study was to examine this; changes in contents of brain-derived neurotrophic factor and TrkB protein were monitored by immunohistochemistry during kainic acid-induced hypertrophy. Results show that immunoreactivities of brain-derived neurotrophic factor and Trk B were present in enlarged granule cells. These immunoreactivities increased from two to 16 weeks after kainic acid injection and were maintained up to 12 months. Simultaneous increases of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA and protein, and of TrkB protein were coupled tightly to the chronology of granule cell enlargement, suggesting that the action of brain-derived neurotrophic factor in the induction and maintenance of kainic acid-induced granule cells enlargement is likely to be mediated by TrkB. The discrepancy between the previously described lack of increase of TrkB messenger RNA and the herein observed increase of the protein further reveals the existence of translational regulations of the receptor messenger RNA.
In this study, the role of metabotropic glutamate receptors in N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-dependent and voltage-gated calcium channel-dependent long-term potentiation in the dentate gyrus of freely moving rats was investigated. Antagonists for group 1 metabotropic glutamate receptors ((S)-4-carboxyphenylglycine), group 1/2 metabotropic glutamate receptors ((RS)-alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine) and group 2 metabotropic glutamate receptors ((RS)-alpha-methylserine O-phosphate monophenylester) were used. The N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, D(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid, and the L-type voltage-gated calcium channel antagonist, methoxyverapamil were used to investigate the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor and voltage-gated calcium channel contribution to the long-term potentiation recorded. Field excitatory postsynaptic potential slope and population spike amplitude were measured. Drugs were applied, prior to tetanus, via a cannula implanted into the lateral cerebral ventricle. 200 Hz tetanization produces a long-term potentiation which is inhibited by application of D(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid and (RS)-alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine. In this study, a dose-dependent inhibition of 200 Hz long-term potentiation expression was obtained with (S)-4-carboxyphenylglycine. Long-term potentiation induced by 400 Hz tetanization was not inhibited by D(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid, although the amplitude of short-term potentiation was reduced. (RS)-alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine and (S)-4-carboxyphenylglycine, both in the presence and absence of D(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid, inhibited the development of 400 Hz long-term potentiation. (RS)-alpha-methylserine O-phosphate monophenylester had no significant effect on long-term potentiation induced by either 200 or 400 Hz tetanization. Application of methoxyverapamil significantly inhibited 400 Hz long-term potentiation, but had no effect on 200 Hz long-term potentiation. These data suggest that 400 Hz long-term potentiation, induced in the presence of D(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid, requires activation of L-type calcium channels. Furthermore, these results strongly support a critical role for group 1 metabotropic glutamate receptors in both N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor- and voltage-gated calcium channel-dependent long-term potentiation.
Multiple aspartate-specific cysteine proteases have been identified and specific members of this family have been implicated in the apoptotic death of many mammalian cell types. Caspase-3-like proteases seem to play a pivotal role in neuronal apoptosis since mice with germline inactivation of the caspase-3 gene manifest profound alterations in neurogenesis. Moreover, inhibitors of caspase-3-related proteases have been shown to inhibit neuronal apoptosis. Here we extend recent work from our laboratory on the mechanisms mediating the neurotoxic actions of 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium using ventral mesencephalon cultures containing dopamine neurons. We demonstrate that low concentrations of 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium induce apoptosis in dopamine neurons by morphological and biochemical criteria. Moreover, pretreatment of ventral mesencephalon cultures with the tetrapeptide inhibitors of the caspase-3-like proteases zVAD-FMK or Ac-DEVD-CHO specifically inhibit death of dopamine neurons induced by low concentrations of 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium, whereas the caspase-1-like inhibitor Ac-YVAD-CHO was without effect. Our data indicate that exposure of cultured ventral mesencephalon dopamine neurons to low concentrations of 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium results in apoptotic death and that caspase-3-like proteases may mediate the neurotoxic apoptotic actions of 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium.
Nitric oxide serves as a diffusible messenger within the neuronal networks of the brain. Recent studies have suggested that nitric oxide may amplify neurotransmitter release via its ability to diffuse in a retrograde manner from postsynaptic to presynaptic neurons. Two isoforms of nitric oxide synthase may be present in neurons: Type I nitric oxide synthase (neuronal isoform) and Type III nitric oxide synthase (endothelial isoform). In this study, we examined the role of nitric oxide as an amplifier of neurotransmitter release by using K+ and N-methyl-D-aspartate stimulations via microdialysis probes located in cortex, striatum, and hippocampus. We compared responses obtained in wild-type mice versus knockout mice deficient in either neuronal isoform of nitric oxide synthase or endothelial isoform of nitric oxide synthase gene expression. No significant differences in glutamate and GABA release were observed between knockout mice and wild-type mice after K+ stimulations. In contrast, N-methyl-D-aspartate-stimulated glutamate release in cortex was significantly reduced in the neuronal NOS knockout mice, and N-methyl-D-aspartate-stimulated GABA release was significantly reduced in all brain regions of endothelial NOS knockout mice. These data suggest that the two nitric oxide synthase isoforms, most likely due to their specific neuronal localizations, may serve different roles in the modulation of excitatory versus inhibitory neurotransmission in mammalian brain.

We have previously shown that in vivo injection of beta-amyloid (beta 1-40, beta 25-35) with non-toxic amounts of ibotenic acid, an excitatory amino acid, causes synergistic and drastic neuronal degeneration in rat hippocampus. It was, however, yet not clear whether the neuronal degeneration in vivo was associated with their primary amino acid sequences, their secondary beta-structure or their activities to suppress MTT reduction activity in vitro. In addition to beta-amyloid, other amyloidogenic peptides such as human amylin or calcitonin are known to deposit extracellularly in systemic and peripheral amyloidosis. In this study, we measured the activity of amyloidogenic peptides (beta 1-40, human amylin and calcitonin) to suppress cellular MTT reduction activity in vitro and their synergistic neurodegeneration with ibotenic acid in vivo. All amyloidogenic peptides, but not non-amyloidogenic peptides (beta 40-1, BSA), suppressed the MTT reduction activity in HeLa cells and in the primary cultured neurons in vitro, and also produced the synergistic neuronal cell loss in rat hippocampal region by enhancing the toxicity of ibotenic acid in vivo. The deposits of amyloidogenic peptides at the injection sites were thioflavin S fluorescence positive, suggesting the fibrillary beta-structures. These results indicate that the neurodegeneration in vivo by amyloidogenic peptides is strongly associated with their fibrillary beta-structure and their activity to suppress MTT reduction activity in vitro.

The transition from low grade astrocytoma to glioblastoma multiforme is almost always accompanied by the loss of genetic markers from chromosome 10. Recently two genes, PTEN/MMAC1/TEP1 and DMBT, have been isolated from chromosome 10q. We have analysed these two genes for mutations in 21 primary glioblastomas. An exon by exon screen of the PTEN gene using SSCP failed to identify any mutations in this tumour series. In contrast, 38% of tumours showed intragenic homozygous deletions in the DMBT gene. The fact that the majority of gliomas do not carry mutations in either of these genes suggests that there may still be other genes on chromosome 10 which are important in the development of glioblastoma multiforme.
We examined two possible mechanisms of neuropathic pain: contribution of adjacent intact nerves and decrease in presynaptic inhibition at the central terminal of the injured primary afferent. To this end, we examined the effects of unilateral L5 spinal nerve ligation, which causes mechanical allodynia and heat hyperalgesia in the ipsilateral hind paw, on gene expression in L4 and L5 dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons using in situ hybridization (ISH). Specifically, we examined changes in the expression of messenger RNAs (mRNAs) for neuropeptides which have been reported to be up- or down-regulated in the axotomized DRG neurons and for gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)A receptor (GABA(A)-R) subunits which contribute to presynaptic inhibition at the primary afferent terminals. Seven days following ligation, ISH demonstrated an increase in signal intensity for calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) mRNA in the subpopulation of small-to medium-sized L4 DRG neurons ipsilateral to the ligation which were not directly injured as compared to the contralateral side, although the overall percentages and the size distribution of positively labelled neurons for CGRP mRNA were not different between the bilateral L4 DRGs. This suggests that the L4 DRG neurons which express CGRP mRNA constitutively up-regulated the gene expression and the functional importance of these neurons has increased following L5 spinal nerve ligation. However, the mRNAs for other neuropeptides such as preprotachykinin (PPT), vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP), neuropeptide Y (NPY), and galanin (GAL), were not different between the bilateral L4 DRGs. The mRNA for the GABA(A)-Rgamma2 subunit was significantly down-regulated in the medium- to large-sized L5 DRG neurons ipsilateral to the ligation as compared to the contralateral side. GABA(A)-Ralpha2 subunit mRNA also decreased in the ipsilateral L5 DRG neurons but did not reach statistical significance. There was no difference in mRNAs between the bilateral L4 DRGs. These data suggest that the presynaptic disinhibition of the ipsilateral L5 primary afferent terminals may be explained at least partly by the down-regulation of GABA(A)-R following L5 spinal nerve ligation. Thus, both the up-regulation of CGRP in adjacent intact nerves and the decrease in presynaptic inhibition at the central terminal of the injured primary afferent could cause the hyper-excitability of dorsal horn neurons and contribute to the molecular mechanisms of this neuropathic pain model.
The pathological hallmark of Parkinson's disease (PD) is a degeneration of the dopamine (DA) producing cells in the substantia nigra and the ventral tegmentum, resulting in a dopamine deficiency in the dopaminergic projection areas with defective functioning of specific cortico-subcortical extrapyramidal circuits. Depending on which circuits (;motor', ;association' or ;limbic') are involved, and on the extent of the accompanying noradrenergic, serotonergic and cholinergic detrition in PD, dysfunction may result in motor deficits, mood disturbances or cognitive deficits, sometimes proceeding to dementia. Drug-induced psychosis occurs in approximately 15-20% of patients treated with dopaminergic agents. In PD, mainly nigrostriatal dopamine (A9) is depleted, leading to progressive motor dysfunction with subtle cognitive disturbances. As a rule, the neuropsychological deficit in PD might be described as the inability to switch cortical behavioral programmes in situations requiring the internal regulation of behavior. In daily life, in most patients these deficits do not become manifest, due to the abundance of external information to guide behavior. When the ability to use environmental information or external cues is lost as well, significant cell loss in the ventral tegmental area, with reduced DA-innervation of the mesocorticolimbic regions and the nucleus accumbens, must be suspected. This leads to clinically overt defects not only in the ;motor' but also in the ;limbic' and ;association' circuits. In addition to more severe cognitive disturbances or even dementia, this may also lead to mood disorders and drug-induced psychosis. Depression then occurs as the cortical modulation of limbic activity has become deficient, leading to emotional reactions disproportionate to the thoughts that evoke them. The proposed mechanism of psychosis in PD is that cortical sensory input is misinterpreted, leading to misperceptions (hallucinations) or false beliefs about reality due to a reduced ;signal-to-noise' ratio by insufficient processing of relevant information.
116 patients with established dementia completed a short confrontation naming test. Naming latency correlated -.69 (Kendall tau, p &lt; .001) with general frequency of the name of the object. Recognition failure correlated .53 with age of acquisition of the name and -.58 with familiarity of the object. These and other correlations are not in accord with recent findings from studies of normal people. More extensive studies of these relationships in dementia, where disorders of recognition and naming are common, would be informative.
Young adult subjects attended selectively to brief noise bursts delivered in free field via a horizontal array of seven loudspeakers spaced apart by 9 degrees of angle. Frequent &quot;standard&quot; stimuli (90%) and infrequent &quot;target/deviant&quot; stimuli (10%) of increased bandwidth were delivered at a fast rate in a random sequence equiprobably from each speaker. In separate runs, the subjects' task was to selectively attend to the leftmost, center, or rightmost speaker and to press a button to the infrequent &quot;target&quot; stimuli occurring at the designated spatial location. Behavioral detection rates and concurrently recorded event-related potentials (ERPs) indicated that auditory attention was deployed as a finely tuned gradient around the attended sound source, thus providing support for gradient models of auditory spatial attention. Furthermore, the ERP data suggested that the spatial focusing of attention was achieved in two distinct stages, with an early more broadly tuned filtering of inputs occurring over the first 80-200 msec after stimulus onset, followed by a more narrowly focused selection of attended-location deviants that began at around 250 msec and closely resembled the behavioral gradient of target detections.
The instrumental design and experimental conditions for high-speed, simultaneous optical recording of membrane potential and intracellular Ca2+ with subcellular resolution are presented. This method employs an extended version of a high-speed, random-access, laser-scanning fluorescence microscope designed to record fast physiological signals from small neuronal structures with high spatiotemporal resolution (Bullen, Patel, Saggau, Biophys J 73:477-491, 1997). With this instrument, imaging and optical recording functions are conducted separately allowing frame rates up to 3 kHz. Individual scanning points are selected interactively from a reference image collected with differential interference contrast (DIC) optics. At each recording site, fluorescence from two indicators is measured simultaneously by independent photodetectors. To optimize signal strength, spectral separation and the achievable signal-to-noise ratio, several combinations of voltage-sensitive dye, Ca2+ indicator and optical elements (dichroic mirrors, filters, etc.) were considered. The best results were achieved from the combination of the intracellular voltage-sensitive dye Di-2-ANEPEQ and the Ca2+ indicator Calcium Green-1. These indicators have overlapping absorption spectra allowing simultaneous excitation with a single laser line (488 nm). Spectral separation of the fluorescence from these two indicators was accomplished using a secondary dichroic mirror (DCLP580) and emission filters (535/45 and OG590). Representative records obtained with this instrument and this combination of indicators demonstrate the feasibility of simultaneous high fidelity measurements of membrane potential and intracellular Ca2+ from the same point at high spatial (2 micrometer) and temporal (&lt;ms) resolution without requiring signal averaging.

Recurrences of malignant tumours in the chest wall are proposed as a valuable model of tissue mainly perfused by small size vessels (the so-called 'phase III' vessels). Invasive thermal measurements have been performed on two patients affected by cutaneous metastasis of malignant tumours during hyperthermic sessions. Thermal probes were inserted into catheters implanted into the tissue at different depths. In one of the catheters a probe connected with laser-Doppler equipment was inserted to assess blood perfusion in the tumour periphery. The perfusion was monitored throughout the sessions, and a noticeable temporal variability was observed. The effect of the perfusion on the thermal map in the tissue was evaluated locally and the 'effective conductivity' of the perfused tissue was estimated by means of the numerical integration of the 'bio-heat' equation. The tumour temperature, at the site where the perfusion probe is located, can be predicted by the numerical model provided two free parameters, alpha and beta, are evaluated with a fitting procedure. Alpha is related to the effective conductivity and beta to the SAR term of the bio-heat equation. The model aimed at estimating the 'effective conductivity' K(eff) of the perfused tissue, and average values of K(eff) of 0.27 +/- 0.03 W m(-1) degrees C(-1) in Patient 1 and of 0.665 +/- 0.005 W m(-1) degrees C(-1) in Patient 2 were obtained throughout the treatment. However, when the average temperature in a larger tumour volume is to be predicted but only a single, 'local' measurement of the perfusion is available and is assumed to be representative for the whole region, the model results are far less satisfactory. This is probably due to the fact that changes of blood perfusion throughout hyperthermic sessions occur to different extents within the tumour volume, and the differences in perfusion cannot be ignored. The above result suggests that, in addition to the 'temperature map', also a 'perfusion map' within the heated volume should be monitored routinely throughout hyperthermic sessions.
A technique for thermal imaging of the animal and human brain cortex using an infrared optical system is described. Thermoencephaloscopy (TES) is based on improved thermovision and image processing techniques and allows two-dimensional, contact-free, dynamic and non-invasive recording of background and evoked cortical activity through an unopened skull. Activated (heated) and deactivated (cooled) zones of the cerebral cortex are revealed. The instrumental temporal resolution of TES is 40 msec (25 maps sec-1), the spatial resolution is up to 70 x 70 microns pixel-1. The diameter of the smallest recordable active region of the cortex is 200-300 microns. TES allows to detect the position, size and sequence of activation of precisely located specific cortical zones, and to measure their dynamics before, during and after sensory and direct cortical stimulation, motor acts and conditioning (associative learning). TES effects were recorded in rats, rabbits, cats, monkeys and humans. Waves were found spreading over the cortex with a speed up to 33 mm sec-1 along trajectories specific for the sensory modality and the site of stimulation. Some pathological processes in the brain are detectable by TES: spreading depression; stress; catalepsy; experimental tumors; and epileptic focuses. The main mechanisms of thermal responses recorded by TES are discussed: neural activity; local metabolism of units; local cerebral blood flow; and thermoconductivity in the activated zones of the cortex. Thermoencephaloscopy is a dynamic, non-invasive, contact-free, comparatively cheap, simple and inexpensive method of neuroimaging with a relatively high temporal and spatial resolution and sensitivity. It can be a useful tool in basic neuroscience and medicine.
Two studies were conducted to assess, in vivo, potential anti-nicotinic effects of the iboga alkaloid ibogaine and its synthetic congener 18-methoxycoronaridine (18-MC). As previously demonstrated for ibogaine, using microdialysis, pretreatment (19h beforehand) with 18-MC (40 mg/kg, i.p.) significantly attenuated nicotine-induced dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens of awake and freely moving rats. In an oral model of nicotine self-administration, both ibogaine and 18-MC decreased rats' preferences for nicotine for at least 24 h. Acutely, during the first hour after administration, ibogaine depressed responding for water as well as for nicotine; however, during this same time, 18-MC reduced nicotine intake without affecting responding for water. The results suggest that 18-MC might be the prototype of a new treatment for smoking.
Microdialysis was used to investigate the effects of heroin administration on extracellular opioid peptide levels in the globus pallidus/ventral pallidum of freely moving rats. Two injections of heroin (0.6 mg/ kg i.p.) were given 3 h apart. The first injection had no significant effect on opioid peptide levels, but the second injection produced a transient yet significant increase (+268%) in opioid peptide-like immunoreactivity in pallidal dialysates, peaking 1 h after injection. This effect was blocked by administration of naloxone (3 mg/kg i.p.) prior to the second injection. The implications of these data are discussed with regards to the role of the endogenous opioid peptide system in opiate reward.
5-Hydroxytryptamine1A (5-HT1A) receptors have been shown to be suppressed by corticosteroid hormones in a variety of animal experimental paradigms. It has been suggested that this effect may be central to the pathophysiology of severe clinical depressive illness, a condition in which 5-HT1A receptor function is reduced and corticosteroid hormones are elevated. We report the effects of acute administration of hydrocortisone in normal volunteers on a neuroendocrine model of 5-HT1A receptor function. Fifteen healthy male volunteers took part in a random order, double blind, placebo controlled study, in which 100 mg hydrocortisone or placebo was administered 11 h before infusion of L-tryptophan (L-TRP). Pre-treatment with hydrocortisone significantly reduced the growth hormone (GH), but not the prolactin (PRL) response to the infusion. These data are consistent with the view that acute administration of corticosteroid hormones significantly impairs 5-HT1A receptor mediated function in healthy human volunteers and are in line with animal studies of the effects of corticosteroid hormones on 5-HT1A receptors. We propose that this finding is relevant to the pathophysiological processes which cause severe depressive illness.
The next decade will witness an explosion of research and development in the neurosciences. The imaging of physiologic and functional processes--the frontier today--will become the norm. There are huge populations of patients with neurodegenerative and cerebrovascular diseases that require nonanatomic diagnostic evaluation. Radiologists must cease being just readers of morphologic images. They must broaden their scope and their areas of expertise. Imaging-guided therapy of all forms will alter the types of interventions we perform on patients. These new techniques will increase the efficacy of neuro-interventions while decreasing their morbidity and mortality. Resources, both human and financial, will be conserved. Radiologists can participate in this wonderful future if they broaden their training. Information management and the use of imaging for procedural guidance are the bases of our profession, but we are weak in the clinical applications of the technology. We must realize that our clinical colleagues are poised to assume the leadership in imaging research and development and in its performance. The challenge to the leaders of radiology is quite apparent: the recognition of the need to train for the future with the most open of minds and the least rigidity. This requires that we all understand the depth of the merger between the imaging and the clinical sciences that is occurring and that will increase substantially in the future. We must be the leaders in such a merger; otherwise, we will not be participants.
Mechanical stimulation of the pharyngeal mucosa in cats and some other mammals evokes the 'aspiration reflex' (AR) characterized by rapid and strong inspiratory efforts not followed by active expirations. It resembles other spasmodic inspiratory acts such as the sniff, the gasp, and the sigh in several aspects, e.g. reflex or semireflex triggering from the upper airways, the sudden onset and termination of such inspirations, the massive recruitment, steep rise and high-peak amplitude of inspiratory unit activity, analogous ventilatory pattern, and contribution to arousal. The similarity of these spasmodic acts is manifested mainly in enhanced speed and volume of inhalation, although of different intensity, which is determined by the varying degree of forced inspiratory activity and a concomitant inhibition of expiratory activity. The extent of the inspiratory dilation of the glottis and the timing and range of late-inspiratory and/or postinspiratory glottal narrowing modulate the depth of aspiration. Thus, the inhalation can be moderate as in sniffing, which provides a transfer of odorants to the olfactory mucosa. In AR the airstream is presumably strong enough to tear off the mechanical particles from the naso- and oropharynx and to convey them into the hypopharynx to allow their subsequent elimination by reflex swallowing or coughing. Prolonged glottal opening allows either the transfer of some additional air to the bronchi by sighing to prevent the development of atelectasis, or redistribution of a larger amount of fresh air into the lungs by gasping to support autoresuscitation. Should aspiration be a common effective component in these spasmodic processes, then the easily elicitable AR could be beneficial as a simple model for studying their properties in health and disease.
Depriving heart tissue of their blood supply leads to a decrease in high-energy compounds and many metabolic disturbances. Following short periods of ischemia, heart can recover their physiological functions after reperfusion, but prolonged ischemia injures heart irreversibly. Mitochondrial disfunction is one of the most critical events associated to injury irreversibility because regeneration of a high ATP level is indispensable for recovery of cellular functions. Reperfusion injury is also implicated in the irreversible damage of the ischemic heart. Even after a period of ischemia that is too short to injure the heart, reperfusion can cause further irreversible damage. The formation of oxygen radicals caused by reintroduction of O2 is probably the most important factor of this phenomenon. The mitochondrial redox chain is one of the main sources of O2 radicals responsible for causing damage to mitochondria, and thus mitochondria can be damaged during reperfusion. Most probably the opening of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore due to increased production of oxygen radicals is associated with the irreversible disruption of mitochondria for oxidative phosphorylation. Carvedilol, a potent antioxidant, prevents the lipoperoxidation of mitochondrial membranes what suggest a strong contribution to the known cardioprotective activity of this compound through protection of mitochondrial functions.

Of the total population admitted over a 12-month period to a tertiary referral epilepsy centre for assessment of their seizure disorder, a high percentage were diagnosed with non-epileptic attack disorder. A retrospective analysis of these patients revealed that although intensive therapy and support was offered during the period of admission, the long-term resources for further management post-discharge were inadequate and in some cases non-existent. The implications for patient satisfaction with the service being offered are discussed and a patient information booklet produced in response to the findings is available by writing to the first author (H.R.).
The last decade has witnessed significant advances in theory and research in the fields of developmental psychopathology and developmental neurobiology. These two fields have much in common, sharing a number of guiding principles and assumptions. This article describes the research implications that these shared principles contain for the growing partnership between developmental psychopathology and developmental neurobiology. Based upon the methods successfully employed in the developmental neurosciences, the author emphasizes that developmental psychopathology must (A) construct more specific (even clever) research questions, (B) develop research tools more capable of examining time-dependent brain-behavior relations, (C) outline and test particular causal mechanisms and their contextual dependencies, and (D) avoid formulaic, nonthinking statistics and design methods that often characterize mental health research.
Developmental brain pathology is a risk factor for early-onset psychopathology. This article provides an overview of the contributions from the developmental neurosciences to our understanding of early-onset psychopathology. It reviews normal human brain development, the role of clinical observation to the development of animal models of early-onset psychopathology and, finally, corroborative studies in humans based upon findings from the animal experiments. These models permit study, at the mechanistic level, as to how a specific neurochemical lesion in a specific anatomic area at a specific developmental stage results in a characteristic behavioral phenotype. The models provide new insights into the concept of a critical period whether they are the result of the transient, developmental expression of a gene or whether they result from the unique anatomy of the brain at a particular age or stage. Animal models of early-onset psychopathology provide important insights into the potential neuroanatomic substrates and developmental processes that are relevant to the emergence of a particular disorder. Ultimately, their study will lead to a generation of therapeutic tools to effectively address the actual disease process. More importantly, they are the first step in developing preventive interventions for early-onset, severe psychopathology. Thus, their value to advancing our understanding of these clinical conditions is inestimable.
At the forefront of cognitive neuroscience research in normal humans are the new techniques of functional brain imaging: positron emission tomography (PET) and, more recently, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The signal used by PET is based on the fact that changes in the cellular activity of the brain of normal, awake humans and laboratory animals are accompanied almost invariably by changes in local blood flow. This robust, empirical relationship has fascinated scientists for well over a hundred years. PET provided a level of precision in the measurement of blood flow that opened up the modern era of functional human brain mapping. Further, the discovery with PET that these changes in blood flow are unaccompanied by quantitatively similar changes in oxygen consumption has paved the way for the explosive rise in the use of MRI in functional brain imaging. The remarkable success of this enterprise is a fitting tribute to men like Michel Ter-Pogossian. He pioneered the use of positron emitting radionuclides in biology and medicine when most had abandoned them in favor of more conventional nuclear medicine radionuclides. Importantly, also, he welcomed into his laboratory young scientists with a broad range of talents, many of whom subsequently became leaders in imaging the mind in research centers throughout the world.
The mechanisms of opioid addiction has attracted much attention of researchers around the world. In the present review, we have discussed the recent progress in the following topics. (1) Neurotransmitters participating the mechanism of opioid addiction; (2) Roles of different opioid receptors in opioid addiction; (3) Possible involvement of learning and memory in opioid addiction; (4) The intracellular signal transductive pathways after the activation of opioid receptors. Possible method of prevention and treatment of opioid addiction are also discussed.


Stimulation of the mediodorsal and midline thalamic nuclei excites cortical neurons and induces c-fos expression in the prefrontal cortex. Data in the literature data suggest that pyramidal neurons are the most likely cellular targets. In order to determine whether cortical interneurons are also impacted by activation of mediodorsal/midline thalamic nuclei, we studied the effects of thalamic stimulation on (1) Fos protein expression in gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-immunoreactive neurons and on (2) extracellular GABA levels in the prefrontal cortex of rats. Perfusion of the GABA-A receptor antagonist bicuculline for 20 minutes through a dialysis probe implanted into the mediodorsal thalamus induced Fos-like immunoreactivity (IR) approximately 1 hour later in the thalamus and in the medial prefrontal cortex of freely moving rats. Immunohistochemical double-labeling for Fos-like IR and GABA-like IR showed that about 8% of Fos-like IR nuclei in the prelimbic and infralimbic areas were located in GABA-like IR neurons. Fos-like IR was detected in three major subsets of GABAergic neurons defined by calbindin, parvalbumin, or vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP)-like IR. Dual probe dialysis showed that the extracellular levels of GABA in the prefrontal cortex did not change in response to thalamic stimulation. These data indicate that activation of thalamocortical neurons indeed affects the activity of GABAergic neurons as shown by the induction of Fos-like IR but that these metabolic changes are not reflected in changes of extracellular GABA levels that are sampled by microdialysis.

The basic mechanisms of information processing by corticostriatal circuits are currently a matter of intense debate amongst cognitive scientists. Huntington's disease, an autosomal-dominant neurogenetic disorder characterized clinically by a triad of motor, cognitive, and affective disturbance, is associated with neuronal loss within corticostriatal circuits, and as such provides a valuable model for understanding the role of these circuits in normal behaviour, and their disruption in disease. We review findings from our studies of the breakdown of cognition in Huntington's disease, with a particular emphasis on executive functions and visual recognition memory. We show that Huntington's disease patients exhibit a neuropsychological profile that shows a discernible pattern of progression with advancing disease, and appears to result from a breakdown in the mechanisms of response selection. These findings are consistent with recent computational models that suggest that corticostriatal circuits compute the patterns of sensory input and response output which are of behavioural significance within a particular environmental context.
Cognitive Neuroscience and Divine Action, 21-27 June 1998, Paserbiec, Poland.


Neurotrophic factors control the survival, differentiation and maintenance of neurons in the peripheral and central nervous systems. Their discovery and characterization have been instrumental to our understanding of a wide range of phenomena in the development, plasticity and repair of the nervous system. Their potential importance in the development of therapeutic agents against neurodegenerative disorders and nerve injury has led to a flurry of activity towards understanding their structure, function and signaling mechanisms. This knowledge has increased dramatically in recent years, in particular due to the elucidation of three-dimensional structures, the discovery of families of structurally related neurotrophic factors and the characterization of receptors and downstream signaling components. Common themes are emerging from these recent studies that allow us to make new insights and predictions as to the function and possible clinical utility of these molecules.
The ever-unfolding biology of NGF is consistent with a target-derived retrograde mode of action in peripheral and central neurons. However, another member of the neurotrophin family, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), is present within nerve terminals in certain regions of the brain and PNS that do not contain the corresponding mRNA. Recent studies have shown that the endogenous neurotrophins, BDNF and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3), are transported anterogradely by central and peripheral neurons. The supply of BDNF by afferents is consistent with their presynaptic synthesis, vesicular storage, release and postsynaptic actions. Anterograde axonal transport provides an 'afferent supply' of BDNF and NT-3 to neurons and target tissues, where they function as trophic factors and as neurotransmitters.
Lesion studies have been of historical importance in establishing the brain systems involved in memory processes. Many of those studies, however, have been overinterpreted in terms of the actual role of each system and of connections between systems. The more recent molecular pharmacological approach has produced major advances in these two areas. The main biochemical steps of memory formation in the CAI region of the hippocampus have been established by localized microinfusions of drugs acting on specific enzymes of receptors, by subcellular measurements of the activity or function of those enzymes and receptors at definite times, and by transgenic deletions or changes of those proteins. The biochemical steps of long-term memory formation in CAI have been found to be quite similar to those of long-term potentiation in the same region, and of other forms of plasticity. Connections between the hippocampus and the entorhinal and parietal cortices in the formation and modulation of short- and long-term memory have also been elucidated using these techniques. Lesion studies, coupled with imaging studies, still have a role to play; with regard to human memory, this role is in many ways unique. But these methods by themselves are not informative as to the mechanisms of memory processing, storage or modulation.
The transition from student to nurse involves the influence of several different educational aspects. The aim of this study is to elucidate the transition to the role of a nurse, which Swedish nursing students underwent during their 3 years in nursing education, as described from the perspective of their experiences with elderly patients. Interviews were conducted with the students at the end of each academic year, and the students wrote diaries about their clinical education in the second and third years. The narratives were analyzed with a phenomenological-hermeneutic method, and six themes appeared vital for the transition into nursing. The study implies a continuous process during education, involving many aspects of the transition from a student with a genuine and natural interest to care for others to a registered nurse ready to take up her first position. Cooperation with other team members had a strong influence on the students.
This study evaluates how well women's personal and social characteristics predict their drinking behavior over a 10-year period, using data from a national representative sample of 696 U.S. women interviewed in 1981 and 1991. Interviews obtained data on drinking behavior, personality characteristics, childhood and recent experiences, and perceptions of the social environment. Analyses using paired comparisons, correlations, and linear and logistic regression found that women's alcohol use and its adverse consequences in 1991 were predicted by age, 1981 drinking behavior, and many other aspects of their lives measured 10 years before. Heavier and riskier drinking patterns were associated in particular with adverse childhood experiences, missing interpersonal ties, and expected self-expressive benefits of drinking. However, no variables predicted all patterns of drinking behavior, and specific predictors of different drinking patterns showed little overlap. We conclude that many aspects of women's lives, and particularly their interpersonal relationships, have long-term influences on their drinking behavior, but different patterns of drinking behavior have different antecedents.
Intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or interleukin (IL)-1 beta induces activation of the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. In some experiments, a marked individual variation has been observed in HPA responses to these stimuli. We reasoned that only parameters that correlate with this variability may reflect signals involved in HPA activation. Although IL-1 beta is found in the peritoneal cavity and has been implicated in the HPA response to i.p. LPS, IL-1 beta levels in peritoneal lavage fluid did not correlate with the variation in HPA responsiveness and neither did IL-1 beta concentrations in plasma. In contrast, IL-6 concentrations in plasma, but not in peritoneal lavage fluid, correlated with this variation to i.p. LPS or IL-1 beta. We conclude that IL-6 in the plasma represents a major determinant of the individual variation in HPA responses to i.p. LPS or IL-1 beta. Because of its positive correlation with Fos expression in various brain-stem nuclei, we suggest that circulating IL-6 may facilitate the generation of signals in vagal afferents or potentiate vagal information transfer to lower brain-stem nuclei.
Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) is recognized as a key intermediate in the sequence of events leading to fever. Normally undetectable or barely detectable in brain, it rises selectively on exposure to an infectious noxa and the attendant generation of pyrogenic cytokines outside and, in the case of interleukin (IL)-6, inside the brain. The mechanism by which pyrogens in the circulation promote the appearance of PGE2 within the confines of brain is not clear, and it is not known how PGE2 activation is selective with IL-6 being induced in brain. We have found that the cerebral microvasculature is not suitable as a source of PGE2 in response to blood-borne pyrogens. In addition, we show that IL-6 differs from other pyrogens in being able to stimulate specifically PGE2 synthesis. Nevertheless, brain-derived IL-6 does not appear to be necessary for PGE2 activation and the attendant fever. We conclude that signal-transducing mechanisms operating across the blood-brain barrier are most critical for the development of the febrile response to a systemic noxa.
There is now good evidence that vasopressin (AVP) acts, in the male rat, as a neurotransmitter in the ventral septal area to reduce fever. In light of the well known sexual dimorphism in the AVP innervation of the brain, we asked if female rats would (a) display fevers different from those seen in male rats, (b) respond to AVP with antipyresis, (c) display evidence of endogenous AVP-induced antipyresis during fever, and (d) display altered fevers and AVP involvement as a function of hormonal status. Our experiments indicate that female rats display larger fevers to intracranial prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) but not to systemic lipopolysaccharide or interleukin-1 beta than do male rats. The larger fevers may be due, in part, to a lack of AVP-induced antipyresis, as an AVP antagonist elevates PGE2 fever in male but not in female rats and dialysates of the ventral septal area show increased AVP levels only in male rats during defervescence. Nonetheless, females respond to exogenous AVP with antipyresis. Throughout late pregnancy, parturition, and lactation, PGE2 fevers are reduced, but this appears to be due to a general suppression of autonomic output not involving enhanced AVP antipyresis. Fevers due to lipopolysaccharide and interleukin-1 beta are also suppressed at this time, and in some animals, fevers are dramatically suppressed at about the time of parturition. Our results indicate that female rats may utilize different strategies for antipyresis than do male rats and that hormonal status may influence both peripherally generated and centrally activated fevers.
The natural osmolyte trimethylamine N-oxide (TMAO) at 200 mM increases the extent and the rate of formation of polymerized microtubule (MT) complex caused by tau. TMAO at this concentration has no effect on tubulin alone. Urea at 200 mM blocks tubulin assembly caused by tau, but this inhibition can be reversed by an equal amount of TMAO. Besides TMAO, betaine, another natural osmolyte, was found to have the same effects on MT as TMAO. On the contrary, glycerol (a carbohydrate osmolyte) and glycine (an amino acid osmolyte) do not increase tau-induced MT assembly. The mechanism by which TMAO and betaine enhance tau's effectiveness is not known, but physical studies suggest that the secondary structure of tau is not appreciably changed by 200 mM TMAO. This is the first report showing that natural osmolytes, TMAO and betaine, at a near physiological concentration are able to stimulate tau-induced tubulin assembly.
Gustin, a zinc-metalloprotein constituting about 3% of human parotid saliva protein was previously isolated and characterized as a single polypeptide chain of 37kDa with one mole of zinc tightly bound to the protein. It exhibited biological activity activating calmodulin dependent bovine brain cAMP phosphodiesterase and was decreased in saliva of patients with loss of taste in whom taste buds showed a specific pathological morphology. Determination of its primary structure by amino acid sequence revealed it was identical with carbonic anhydrase (CA) [EC 4.2.1.1] VI and had two N-linked glycosylation sites. Analysis by reverse phase HPLC and SDS-PAGE before and after deglycosylation confirmed a single peak with molecular weight of the purified protein being 37kDa, the deglycosylated protein, 33kDa. N-linked carbohydrate chains contained N-acetyl glucosamine, galactose, mannose, and fucose interior to di, tri and tetra sialyated termini. By isoelectric focusing five increasingly acidic pI values were determined consistent with addition of sialic acid as the terminal carbohydrate residue on the N-linked glycoforms of the protein. Gustin was found to exhibit CA activity but was inhibited by known CA inhibitors in a different manner than CA I or II. These findings, consistent with analysis of previous investigators, indicate that parotid saliva gustin is CA VI.
Temporal dynamics are a general feature of synaptic transmission. Recently, novel aspects of temporal dynamics of synaptic transmission have been reported in the neocortex. Here, we examine the possible effects of these dynamics on the spatiotemporal receptive fields of simple cells in V1. We do this by examining a simple model of a cortical neuron that displays stimulus orientation selectivity as a consequence of the pattern of thalamocortical synaptic weights. In our model, the receptive field structure is encoded functionally in either presynaptic probability of release or postsynaptic efficacy. We show that these different assumptions about the origin of receptive field structure lead to very different spatiotemporal dynamics in the case of flashed-bar stimulus. In addition, the results of the reverse correlation study suggest a possible test for differentiating between models. We also show that the temporal code induced by dynamic synapses can be used to distinguish between different inputs that induce the same average firing rate.
Functional imaging experiments, in particular positron-emission tomography and functional magnetic resonance imaging, can be analyzed either in psychological terms or on the basis of neuroscience. In the usual psychological interpretation, stimulations are designed to activate specific mental processes identified by cognitive psychology, which are then localized by the signals in functional imaging experiments. An alternate approach would be to analyze experiments in terms of the neurobiological processes responsible for the signals. Recent in vivo 13C NMR measurements of the glutamate-to-glutamine neurotransmitter cycling in rat and human brains facilitate a neuroscientific interpretation of functional imaging data in terms of neurobiological processes since incremental neurotransmitter flux showed a 1:1 stoichiometry with the incremental rate of glucose oxidation. Because functional imaging signals depend on brain energy consumption, a quantitative relationship can be established between the signal (S) and the specific neurochemical cerebral neurotransmitter activity (N) of glutamate-to-glutamine neurotransmitter cycling. The quantitation of neuronal activity proposed has implications for the psychological design and interpretation of functional imaging experiments. Measurements of the neurotransmitter cycling flux at rest in functional imaging experiments suggest that performing cognitive tasks and sensory stimulations increases neurotransmitter cycling by only 10-20%. Therefore it cannot be assumed that reference state activities are negligible, nor that they are constant during stimulation.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the immune dysfunction hypothesis of chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) by comparing immunologic data from patients with CFS with data from patients with other fatiguing illnesses--major depression and multiple sclerosis (MS)--and with data from healthy sedentary controls. The subjects were 65 healthy sedentary controls, 71 CFS patients (41 with no axis-I diagnosis), 23 patients with mild MS, and 21 patients with major depression. Blood was sampled and assayed for the following: (1) immunologic serologic variables--circulating immune complexes (i.e., Raji cell and C1q binding), immunoglobulins A, E, G, and M, and IgG subclasses; (2) cell surface activation markers--the proportion of CD4+ cells expressing CD45RA+ and CD45RO+ and the proportion of CD8+ cells expressing CD38+, CD11b-, HLA-DR+ and CD28+; and (3) natural killer (NK) total cell count as well as the proportion of lymphocytes expressing NK cell surface markers (i.e., CD3-/CD16+ and CD56+. Of the 18 variables studied, differences between CFS patients and controls were found only for IgG1 and IgG3. When CFS patients were stratified by the presence or absence of concurrent axis-I disease, it was the group with axis-I disorder that had the lowest IgG1 values-contrary to expectation. When data from patients with MS and major depression were also evaluated, the subclass deficiency was no longer significant. The one group to show evidence for immune activation (i.e., an elevated proportion of CD4+ cells expressing the CD45RA+ activation marker) was the group with mild MS. These data support neither immune dysfunction nor immune activation in CFS or in major depression, for the variables studied. The reductions in IgG subclasses may be an epiphenomenon of patient or control subject composition. In contrast, MS, even in the mild and early stages, as in the patients studied here, is associated with immune activation.

It is known that both applied and endogenous electrical fields can modulate neuronal activity. In this study, we have demonstrated that anodic current injections can inhibit spontaneous epileptiform events in the absence of synaptic transmission. Activity was induced with low-Ca2+ (0.2 mM) artificial cerebrospinal fluid (ACSF) and detected with a voltage threshold detector. At the onset of an event, a current was injected into the stratum pyramidale via a tungsten electrode positioned within 150 micron of the recording site. Data was recorded with a glass pipette electrode. The results show that spontaneous epileptiform activity can be fully suppressed by subthreshold anodic currents with an average amplitude of 3.9 microA and a minimum amplitude of 1 microA. In addition, we observed that some events could be blocked by current pulses with shorter durations than the duration of the event itself. The possibility that increased tissue resistance could contribute to the efficacy of the currents was tested by measuring the step-potential increase evoked by anodic current injections. The data show a significant increase in the amplitude of the evoked potential after introduction of a low-Ca2+ medium, suggesting that tissue resistance is increasing. These results indicate that low-amplitude, subthreshold current pulses are sufficient to block epileptiform activity in a low-Ca2+ environment. The increased tissue resistance induced by sustained exposure to a low-Ca2+ medium could contribute to the low current amplitudes required to block the epileptiform events.
The distribution and regulation of galanin-R1 receptor (GAL-R1-R) mRNA has been studied in the anterior and mid-diencephalon by using in situ hybridization. Moreover, possible colocalization of GAL-R1-R mRNA and prepro-galanin or vasopressin mRNAs has been analyzed at the cellular level using double in situ hybridization methodology. Many nuclei in the hypothalamus expressed GAL-R1-R mRNA, including the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) and the supraoptic nucleus (SON). Strong expression was also seen in the same sections in various areas outside of the diencephalon. The distribution patterns are similar to those described in earlier studies. Double labeling experiments showed GAL-R1-R mRNA in vasopressin neurons in the PVN and SON. Moreover, GAL-R1-R mRNA and prepro-galanin mRNA were colocalized in several hypothalamic nuclei. GAL-R1-R mRNA levels showed a high degree of plasticity. Thus, salt loading resulted in a marked increase in GAL-R1-R mRNA levels in the PVN and SON and a moderate decrease was seen during lactation. In contrast, hypophysectomy caused a decrease in GAL-R1-R mRNA levels. Differential effects of colchicine were recorded with a decrease of GAL-R1-R mRNA in the magnocellular hypothalamic neurons. After salt loading or during lactation, GAL-R1-R mRNA and prepro-galanin mRNA were regulated in parallel, whereas their levels changed in opposite directions after hypophysectomy and colchicine injection. In conclusion, GAL-R1-Rs are present in several hypothalamic nuclei, partly in neurons synthesizing galanin. The receptors are regulated in a specific fashion in the various nuclei, depending on the stimulus applied. The results suggest that the effect of galanin in the hypothalamus partly depends on the state of receptor expression.
Cerebellar pattern formation was investigated in rats treated with DNA modifying agents. Animals were subjected to combinations of daily injections of methylazoxymethanol acetate (MAM) for the last 6 days gestation and/or localised X-irradiation of the hindbrain on postnatal days 1 and 5 (P1 and P5). Animals were analysed on embryonic day 18 (E18), P0, P3, P7, and P14. Five parameters of the cerebellum were recorded from midsagittal sections: the number of primary lobules; the thickness of the external germinal layer (EGL); the density of cells in the internal granule cell layer (IGL) region; and the midsagittal area and perimeter. In addition, the laterolateral cerebellar distance was calculated. The data demonstrate that pre- and postnatal reduction of the EGL results in reduced cerebellar growth and folding. Cessation of the treatment at birth results in a recovery and eventual overproduction of EGL, but cerebellar growth and the development of fissures lags behind that of normal rats. Pre- and postnatal destruction of the EGL severely limited cerebellar growth and fissuration, and the cerebella contained only five primary lobules at P14. Rats subjected to postnatal X-irradiation alone had a similar low density of granule cells relative to those treated with a combination of prenatal MAM injections and postnatal X-irradiation, and yet the cerebella contained deeper fissures and more lobules (nine at P14). The data indicate that there are two phases of cerebellar folding: the establishment of five lobules that arise independent of granule cell production, and the granule cell-dependent expansion and partitioning of these five principal lobules during postnatal development. We propose that the lack of correlation between the severity of the granule cell loss and degree of lobulation in agranular rats indicates that granule cells exert an inductive influence over lobulation that is in part independent of the forces generated by their production and differentiation.
Lamotrigine is a novel anticonvulsant drug which also stabilises mood in bipolar illness via an unknown mechanism. We report the concentration-dependent inhibition of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) uptake in both human platelets and rat brain synaptosomes (IC50s were 240 and 474 microM, respectively) by lamotrigine. Synaptosomal uptake of noradrenaline (IC50 239 microM) and dopamine (IC50 322 microM) was also inhibited. Tetrodotoxin failed to modulate 5-HT uptake suggesting that sodium channel blockade does not mediate the lamotrigine effect. Lithium, sodium valproate, zonisamide, and carbamazepine all possess anti-manic activity but only the latter inhibited 5-HT uptake. The inhibition of the p-chloroamphetamine-induced 5-HT syndrome in rats suggests that lamotrigine also inhibits 5-HT uptake in vivo. These effects probably reflect an affinity for biogenic amine transporters. However, at present, it remains uncertain whether, at clinically effective doses, these effects contribute significantly to the efficacy of lamotrigine in bipolar illness.
The aim of this study was to investigate the distribution of a calcium-inhibitable adenylyl cyclase type VI (type VI AC) in the central nervous system using an antiserum directed against the N-terminus of type VI AC. Our results indicate that type VI AC immunoreactivity is generally expressed in many brain regions with different levels of intensity. Most interestingly, the majority of the detected type VI AC immunoreactivity is present in cells of neuronal phenotype. Double immunostaining of type VI AC and markers of various neurotransmitter systems suggest that type VI AC might participate in regulation of the classical neurotransmitter systems and therefore appeared to play a very important role in the central nervous system.
The anti-epileptic, anti-hyperalgesic, and anxiolytic agent gabapentin (1-(aminomethyl)-cyclohexane acetic acid or Neurontin) has previously been shown to bind with high affinity to the alpha2delta subunit of voltage-dependent calcium channels (Gee, N. S. , Brown, J. P., Dissanayake, V. U. K., Offord, J., Thurlow, R., and Woodruff, G.N. (1996) J. Biol. Chem. 271, 5768-5776). We report here the cloning, sequencing, and deletion mutagenesis of the alpha2delta subunit from porcine brain. The deduced protein sequence has a 95.9 and 98.2% identity to the rat and human neuronal alpha2 delta sequences, respectively. [3H]Gabapentin binds with a KD of 37.5 +/- 10.4 nM to membranes prepared from COS-7 cells transfected with wild-type porcine alpha2 delta cDNA. Six deletion mutants (B-G) that lack the delta polypeptide, together with varying amounts of the alpha2 component, failed to bind [3H]gabapentin. C-terminal deletion mutagenesis of the delta polypeptide identified a segment (residues 960-994) required for correct assembly of the [3H]gabapentin binding pocket. Mutant L, which lacks the putative membrane anchor in the delta sequence, was found in both membrane-associated and soluble secreted forms. The soluble form was not proteolytically cleaved into separate alpha2 and delta chains but still retained a high affinity (KD = 30.7 +/- 8.1 nM) for [3H]gabapentin. The production of a soluble alpha2delta mutant supports the single transmembrane model of the alpha2 delta subunit and is an important step toward the large-scale recombinant expression of the protein.
The neuroprotective effects of a systemically active, potent, group II selective metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist, LY354740, was assessed in the middle cerebral artery occlusion model of focal ischaemia in rats. LY354740 (0.3, 3.0 or 30.0 mg/kg) was administered subcutaneously (s.c.) 30 min prior to and 3 hours after the induction of ischaemia. Twenty four hours after the ischaemic insult, the brains were processed for the evaluation of infarct volumes. No significant reduction in infarct volumes were observed in treated animals at any of the doses investigated. These data provide no support for the view that group II metabotropic glutamate receptors have a major influence on ischaemic damage in this model.
Quantitative EEG is a potentially useful tool in demonstrating the effects of treatments with acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitors on the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). In order to define the profile of EEG changes during tacrine long-term treatment, for 12 months we followed 15 AD patients receiving an optimal individually tolerable dose. After 3 months theta global field power (GFP) was significantly reduced, and after 6 months both theta and delta GFP decreased. Theta GFP was still reduced after 12 months of treatment when compared to the baseline. Significant decreases in fast activities of beta 1 and beta 2 GFP were also observed. The untreated reference group (n = 10) did not show any significant changes in GFP after 12 months follow-up, although generators of theta activity had a significant shift towards posterior regions. These findings suggest that slowing in fast EEG frequencies during chronic treatment with AChE inhibitors may provide an early indicator of declining treatment efficiency.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is a potent endogenous appetite transducer but the NPY receptor subtype mediating the induction of appetite is unknown. Evaluation of hypothalamic NPY Y1 and Y5 receptor mRNA by RNase protection assay showed that appetite evoked either by fasting or food-restriction increased expression of Y1 mRNA. Suppression of appetite by the cytokine, ciliary neurotropic factor, blocked this increase in Y1 gene expression. In contrast Y5 mRNA levels were unchanged by these treatments. These findings suggest that NPY-induced stimulation of appetite requires signal transmission though Y1 receptor subtype in the hypothalamus.
We have previously demonstrated that NPY produces anxiolytic-like effects through actions in the amygdala, and that anxiogenic-like effects of restraint stress are mediated through this structure. Here, we examined the effects of restraint stress on NPY mRNA levels in amygdala and several other brain regions. A sensitive solution hybridization-RNase protection assay (RPA) was developed, employing a combination of internal and external standards, which allowed absolute quantitation of NPY mRNA in tissue-samples of less than 10 mg. NPY mRNA levels were determined, following a 1-h restraint stress, in homogenates of tissue from the amygdala, neocortex, striatum and hypothalamus, and the time course of these effects was examined. A highly significant decrease in NPY-mRNA levels was seen in the amygdala at 1 h and 2 h following restraint, with levels returning to normal within 10 h. A similar effect was seen in the neocortex, but was less pronounced and slower in onset. Striatal and hypothalamic NPY expression was not significantly affected. Tissue levels of NPY-peptide were modestly decreased in the amygdala at 1 h following restraint and had returned to normal within 4 h. The present findings support the hypothesis that anxiety related behavioral effects of stress may in part be mediated through modulation of NPY function in the amygdala.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) regulates cardiovascular function, smooth muscle contraction and smooth muscle cell proliferation. Stimulation of NPY Y1 and Y2 receptor subtypes has been shown to result in increases in second messengers, such as cytosolic calcium concentrations, which precede physiological events such as cell contraction. To assess whether NPY receptors also stimulate second messengers which may precede mitogenic effects, we measured the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) activity in NPY receptor-expressing cell lines in response to NPY. CHO K1 cells stably expressing either NPY Y1 or Y2 receptors were shown to specifically bind radiolabelled Peptide YY (PYY), and MAPK activity in these cells was assessed using a peptide kinase assay. NPY stimulated dose-dependent increases in MAPK activity in both NPY Y1 and Y2 receptor-expressing cell lines. The NPY-stimulated MAPK activity was sensitive to pretreatment with pertussis toxin, the MAPK specific inhibitor PD098059 or wortmannin, an inhibitor of phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI-3-K). These results indicate that both NPY Y1 and Y2 receptors stimulate wortmannin-sensitive increases in MAPK activity via Gi proteins and suggest a role for NPY Y1 and Y2 receptors in the regulation of smooth muscle cell growth involved in hypertrophy.
The lumbar 5 (L5) dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) were studied in neuropeptide tyrosine (NPY)-deficient (-/-) and wild type (+/+) mice after unilateral sciatic nerve transection using in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. NPY, galanin and two NPY receptors (Y-Rs) were analyzed as well as self-mutilation behaviour (autotomy) and nociceptive thresholds. No difference between wild type and NPY-deficient mice was seen in the tail-flick or hot plate test. However, -/- mice showed a much stronger autotomy behaviour than wild type mice. NPY was not found in L5 DRGs in -/- mice, not even after axotomy. Galanin was upregulated to the same extent after axotomy in NPY-deficient and wild type mice. Y1- and Y2-R mRNAs were found mainly in small DRG neuron profiles. Both receptor mRNAs were downregulated after axotomy, to about the same extent in NPY-deficient as in wild type mice. In control and contralateral ganglia the mRNA levels of both receptors were lower in NPY-deficient mice than in wild type mice. The contralateral Y2-R mRNA levels did not reach control values in the NPY-deficient mice, as they did in the wild type mice. In both strains the Y1-R protein was decorating the somatic plasmalemma. The present results suggest that lack of NPY may cause exaggerated autotomy, a self-mutilation behaviour possibly related to pain sensation, in agreement with the described analgesic effect of NPY. Although significant differences in levels of Y1- and especially Y2-R mRNAs were observed between wild type and NPY-deficient mice, they were only moderate. These findings suggest that expression, regulation, localization and possible function of Y1- and Y2-Rs are not dependent on presence of the endogenous ligand. Also, deletion of NPY does not seem to influence the expression of the partly coexisting peptide galanin.
Lactation induces an increase in NPY activity in two neuronal populations in the hypothalamus: the arcuate nucleus (ARH) and the dorsomedial nucleus (DMH) area. To determine if NPY neurons from these areas project to the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVH), the retrograde tracer, fluorogold (FG), was injected into the PVH of lactating females. FG-labeled NPY cells (identified by in situ hybridization for NPY mRNA) were observed throughout the ARH; however, a greater number of double-labeled cells were found in the caudal portion than the rostral portion of the ARH. Thus, NPY neurons in the caudal portion of the ARH provide the major ARH NPY input into the PVH area. If these results are combined with our previous data showing that activation of NPY neurons in the ARH during lactation is confined to the caudal portion, it is very likely that the lactation-activated NPY neurons project to the PVH. FG-labeled NPY cells were also identified in the DMH area, providing the first evidence that the NPY neurons in the DMH area activated during lactation also project to the PVH. Taken together, the increase in NPY activity may be important in modulating some of the physiological alterations occurring during lactation, such as the increase in food intake, in part through modulating PVH neuronal activity.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) belongs to a family of structurally related neuroendocrine peptides that bind to G protein-coupled receptors. Five different receptor subtypes have recently been cloned in mammals and we have found another three receptor genes in the zebrafish, called zYa, zYb, and zYc, that appear to be distinct subtypes as deduced from their widely different sequences. To elucidate the evolutionary relationships between the mammalian and zebrafish receptors, we have used the zebrafish probes to isolate genomic clones from another teleost fish, the Atlantic cod, Gadus morhua. We present here the sequence of the cod Yb gene, whose deduced protein sequence is equally identical to the zebrafish Yb (69%) and Yc proteins (66%). The two zebrafish receptors are 76% identical to each other, suggesting that they arose by gene duplication in the zebrafish lineage after divergence from the cod lineage. The five cloned mammalian NPY-family receptors and the three cloned zebrafish NPY receptors indicate that this is the largest receptor family among all peptide receptors that belong to the superfamily of G protein-coupled receptors.
Pancreatic polypeptide (PP) is involved in gastrointestinal functions and forms, together with neuropeptide Y (NPY) and peptide YY (PYY), the PP-fold family of peptides. The PP-binding receptor subtype Y4 has so far been cloned in human, rat, and mouse, and displays extensive species differences regarding sequence, pharmacology, and distribution. To explore this variability further, we have cloned the Y4 receptor in the guinea pig, which is evolutionarily equally distantly related to both humans and rodents. The guinea pig Y4 receptor is 84% identical to the human Y4 receptor, but only 74-75% identical to the rat and mouse receptors. The two latter are 75-76% identical to human Y4. The guinea pig Y4 receptor bound 125I-hPP with a dissociation constant (Kd) of 29+/-3 pM. The pharmacological profile of guinea pig Y4 has the following rank order of potencies: PP &gt; NPY approximately = PYY approximately = LP-NPY approximately = LP-PYY &gt; NPY2-36 &gt; [D-Trp32]NPY. Thus, the guinea pig receptor is more similar to the human Y4 than to the rat Y4 both in sequence and pharmacology. This agrees with the greater identity between guinea pig and human PP compared to rat PP. These comparisons suggest that the rodent PPs and Y4 receptors have an accelerated replacement rate.
Five neuropeptide Y (NPY) receptor subtypes have been cloned in mammals. The degree of sequence conservation differs considerably between subtypes as well as between evolutionary lineages. To shed further light on this, we have cloned the five NPY receptors in the guinea pig. Here, we report the cloning of the guinea pig Y2 receptor. The Y2 receptor is generally highly conserved, with 90-95% identity between different orders of mammals, including the guinea pig. The guinea pig receptor has a divergent cytoplasmic tail, indicating possible differences in regulation of signalling and/or down regulation. COS-7 cells transiently transfected with the gpY2 receptor show saturable 125I-PYY binding with a Kd = 6 pM. In displacement experiments, the gpY2 receptor was similar to the human and rat receptors with the following rank order of potencies: pNPY &gt; pPYY &gt; pNPY13-36 = pNPY22-36 &gt; [Leu31Pro34]NPY &gt; BIBP3226. Thus, the guinea pig Y2 receptor is well conserved in comparison with human and rat with regard to both amino acid sequence and pharmacological profile.
Although many anecdotal reports indicate that marijuana and its active constituent, delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (delta-9-THC), may reduce pain sensation, studies of humans have produced inconsistent results. In animal studies, the apparent pain-suppressing effects of delta-9-THC and other cannabinoid drugs are confounded by motor deficits. Here we show that a brainstem circuit that contributes to the pain-suppressing effects of morphine is also required for the analgesic effects of cannabinoids. Inactivation of the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM) prevents the analgesia but not the motor deficits produced by systemically administered cannabinoids. Furthermore, cannabinoids produce analgesia by modulating RVM neuronal activity in a manner similar to, but pharmacologically dissociable from, that of morphine. We also show that endogenous cannabinoids tonically regulate pain thresholds in part through the modulation of RVM neuronal activity. These results show that analgesia produced by cannabinoids and opioids involves similar brainstem circuitry and that cannabinoids are indeed centrally acting analgesics with a new mechanism of action.
Typical natural visual scenes contain many objects, which need to be segregated from each other and from the background. Present theories subdivide the processes responsible for this segregation into a pre-attentive and attentive system. The pre-attentive system segregates image regions that 'pop out' rapidly and in parallel across the visual field. In the primary visual cortex, responses to pre-attentively selected image regions are enhanced. When objects do not segregate automatically from the rest of the image, the time-consuming attentive system is recruited. Here we investigate whether attentive selection is also associated with a modulation of firing rates in area V1 of the brain in monkeys trained to perform a curve-tracing task. Neuronal responses to the various segments of a target curve were simultaneously enhanced relative to responses evoked by a distractor curve, even if the two curves crossed each other. This indicates that object-based attention is associated with a response enhancement at the earliest level of the visual cortical processing hierarchy.
In this paper we describe the development of a novel series of non-peptide, &quot;balanced&quot; neuromedin-B preferring (BB1)/gastrin-releasing peptide preferring (BB2) receptor ligands as exemplified by PD 176252. PD 176252, which exhibits nanomolar affinity for both the BB1 (Ki = 0.15 nM) and BB2 (Ki = 1.0 nM) receptors, has been demonstrated to be a competitive antagonist at these bombesin receptor subtypes.
Using various antibodies to the amyloid ss precursor protein (APP) associated with Alzheimer's disease, we investigated changes in the distribution of APP in the hippocampus and neocortex of adrenalectomized (ADX) rats. In contrast to sham-operated controls, ADX rats euthanised after a survival period of 5 months showed striking APP reactivity in the CA1-CA4 fields and in the surviving cells in the dentate gyrus. Our results suggest the enhanced APP reactivity in hippocampal neurons may pertain to previous observations on the accumulation of APP fragments in the neocortex during ischemic or traumatic injury. Thus, long-term hormone deprivation would be another factor, which may influence the expression of APP in brain.
The contribution of tuberohypophyseal and periventricular-hypophyseal dopaminergic neurons to the regulation of the secretion of prolactin (PRL) has yet to be clarified. In this study, we used pituitary stalk compression to disrupt hypothalamic neural input to the neurointermediate lobe (NIL). Neurointermediate lobe denervation (NIL-D) selectively disrupts the axons of tuberohypophyseal and periventricular-hypophyseal dopaminergic neurons, while leaving tuberoinfundibular dopaminergic neurons and the vascular supply of the pituitary gland intact. NIL-D was performed in ovariectomized (OVX) rats. The concentration of DA and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) in the median eminence (ME) and various regions of the pituitary gland of OVX and OVX+NIL-D rats were measured by HPLC-EC. The concentration of PRL, alpha-melanocyte stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH), and luteinizing hormone (LH) in serum were determined by radioimmunoassay. Successful NIL-D was confirmed by increased water intake. One week after NIL-D, serum PRL and alpha-MSH were elevated, but there was no change in the concentration of LH in serum. The concentration of DA was increased in the median eminence (ME), decreased in the outer zone of the anterior lobe (AL-OZ), as well as the intermediate (IL) and neural lobes (NL), and remained unchanged in the inner zone of the anterior lobe (AL-IZ). The concentration of DOPAC was increased in the ME and NL, decreased in the IL, and remained unchanged in both the AL-IZ and AL-OZ. These data confirm that pituitary stalk compression denervates the NIL. Moreover, decreases in the concentration of DA in the IL and AL-OZ, coupled with elevation of serum PRL and alpha-MSH indicate that DA from the NIL contributes to the increased inhibition of the secretion of PRL and alpha-MSH in OVX rats.
We define a new morphological type of ganglion cell in cat retina by using intracellular staining in vitro. The zeta cell has a small soma, slender axon, and compact, tufted, unistratified dendritic arbor. Dendritic fields were intermediate in size among cat ganglion cells, typically twice the diameter of beta cell fields. They were smallest in the nasal visual streak (&lt;280 microm diameter), especially near the area centralis (60-150 microm diameter), and largest in the nonstreak periphery (maximum diameter 570 microm). Fields sizes were symmetric about the nasotemporal raphe except near the visual streak, where nasal fields were smaller than temporal ones. Zeta-cell dendrites ramified near the boundary between sublaminae a and b (OFF and ON sublayers) of the inner plexiform layer, occupying the narrow gap separating the dendrites of ON and OFF alpha cells. There was no evidence for separate ON and OFF types of zeta cell. Retrograde labeling studies revealed that both nasally and temporally located zeta cells project to the contralateral superior colliculus, whereas few project to the ipsilateral colliculus or to any subdivision of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus. The zeta cell's morphology and projection patterns suggest that it corresponds to the ON-OFF phasic W-cell (also known as the local edge detector) of physiological studies. Zeta cells have particularly small dendritic fields in the visual streak, presumably because they are disproportionately represented in the streak in comparison with other ganglion cell types. These conditions are consistent with optimal spatial resolution along the retinal projection of the visual horizon rather than principally at the center of gaze. Strong commonalities with similar ganglion cell types in ferret, rabbit, and monkey suggest that &quot;zeta-like&quot; cells may be a universal feature of the mammalian retina.
The distribution of submucous neurons that project to the myenteric plexus of the guinea pig small intestine was established by retrograde transport of the carbocyanine dye 1,1'-didodecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethyl indocarbocyanine perchlorate (DiI) from myenteric ganglia in organ culture in combination with immunohistochemistry. Following the application of DiI to the serosal surface of a single myenteric ganglion, from 2 to 15 DiI-labelled nerve cell bodies were labelled in the submucous plexus up to 7.9 mm circumferentially, 4.5 mm orally, and 3.4 mm aborally to the DiI application site. No cells were labelled in preparations in which connections between myenteric and submucous plexuses had been severed prior to DiI application. Cells that were immunoreactive for vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) or for substance P (SP) accounted for about 75% and 11% of DiI-labelled cells, respectively. Neither neuropeptide Y- nor calretinin-immunoreactive submucous neurons were labelled by DiI, indicating that these classes of neurons do not project to the myenteric plexus. Retrograde tracing from the myenteric plexus with Neurobiotin revealed that labelled VIP-immunoreactive neurons had several short, filamentous processes and a single long axon that could be followed through the circular muscle to myenteric ganglia without branches to the mucosa. The previously described projection of submucous, SP-immunoreactive putative sensory neurons to the myenteric plexus was confirmed. However, this study has identified a considerably larger population of presumed interneurons that are immunoreactive for VIP that likely transmit information from the submucous plexus to the myenteric plexus and presumably coordinate activity between the two ganglionated plexuses.
Several different antibodies to mouse and/or rat osteopontin have been developed, and some antisera raised against human osteopontin have been shown to react with mouse osteopontin. We have taken advantage of the lack of osteopontin protein in mice with a targeted disruption of the osteopontin gene to characterize the reactivity and the specificity of several of these antibodies with mouse osteopontin by Western blotting. Our results demonstrate that, with the exception of the rat monoclonal antibody MPIIIB10, which does not recognize mouse osteopontin on Western blots, all the tested reagents do react with mouse osteopontin, but their sensitivity varies widely, and in some cases there is significant cross-reactivity of the antibodies with other proteins found in mouse tissue extracts.
We identify a complex of three proteins in brain that has the potential to couple synaptic vesicle exocytosis to neuronal cell adhesion. The three proteins are: (1) CASK, a protein related to MAGUKs (membrane-associated guanylate kinases); (2) Mint1, a putative vesicular trafficking protein; and (3) Veli1, -2, and -3, vertebrate homologs of C. elegans LIN-7. CASK, Mint1, and Velis form a tight, salt-resistant complex that can be readily isolated. CASK, Mint1, and Velis contain PDZ domains in addition to other modules. However, no PDZ domains are involved in complex formation, leaving them free to recruit cell adhesion molecules, receptors, and channels to the complex. We propose that the tripartite complex acts as a nucleation site for the assembly of proteins involved in synaptic vesicle exocytosis and synaptic junctions.
In membranes of olfactory tubercle and striatum, the selective muscarinic M4 receptor antagonist muscarinic toxin 3 completely antagonized the acetylcholine-induced inhibition of forskolin- and dopamine D1 receptor-stimulated cyclic AMP formation with Ki values of 7 and 4 nM, respectively. In olfactory bulb, where acetylcholine stimulated basal adenylyl cyclase activity and inhibited forskolin-stimulated enzyme activity, muscarinic toxin 3 caused a partial antagonism of both acetylcholine effects with high potencies (Ki values = 4-6 nM). In frontal cortex, muscarinic toxin 3 counteracted the acetylcholine-induced potentiation of corticotropin-releasing hormone-stimulated cyclic AMP with a Ki of 58 nM, which is close to the toxin affinity for the muscarinic M1 receptor. In the same brain region, the acetylcholine inhibition of forskolin-stimulated enzyme activity was not affected by muscarinic toxin 3. In microdissected regions of the hippocampus, a significant portion (33-48%) of the acetylcholine inhibition of forskolin-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity was blocked by muscarinic toxin 3 with Ki values (6-8 nM) consistent with the involvement of muscarinic M4 receptors. These data show that muscarinic toxin 3 discriminates between adenylyl cyclase-coupled muscarinic receptors and demonstrate the utility of the toxin in identifying the relative contribution by the muscarinic M4 receptor subtype.
Stimulation of motor activity induced by ethanol has been proposed to reflect the positive reinforcing properties of the drug. The present study was designed to assess whether voluntary ethanol intake would stimulate locomotor activity in Sardinian alcohol-preferring (sP) rats, selectively bred for high ethanol preference and consumption. Rats were habituated to a) consume either water alone (water-consuming rats) or ethanol (10%, v/v) as free choice together with water (ethanol-consuming rats) according to a 15-min limited access protocol for 10 consecutive days prior to the test, and b) explore an open field for 10 min immediately after the drinking session in a trial on 3 consecutive days before the test. On the test day, voluntary ethanol consumption in ethanol-consuming rats averaged 1.2 g/kg. Values for activity measures (time spent moving, number of square crossings and number of rearings) were significantly higher in ethanol- than in water-consuming rats at both 5- and 10-min intervals. These results suggest that the euphorigenic effects of ethanol, supposedly represented by the stimulation of locomotor activity, are part of the reinforcing properties of ethanol in sP rats.
It has been shown that the application of acetylcholine activates a Ca2+-dependent K+ current in outer hair cells, and the resulting hyperpolarization is thought to be an important part of the inhibition mediated by cholinergic efferent nerve fibres to the cochlea. In order to study the kinetics of the current, flash photolysis has been used to apply a cholinergic agonist, carbachol, rapidly to isolated outer hair cells. A delay in the onset of the outward potassium current following photorelease of carbachol was consistently observed, and the activation phase of the response could be described by a sigmoidal-like function with a mean delay of 59 ms and time constant of 71 ms. The sum of these values lies within the time scale reported for the onset of the inhibition following electrical stimulation of the efferent nerves. Although a distinct current attributable to an acetylcholine receptor was not visible in these experiments, indirect evidence for a carbachol-induced influx of Ca2+ was obtained.
The ATP-gated cation channel receptor P2X3 is associated with nociceptive primary sensory neurons. We have, using immunohistochemistry, examined the expression of P2X3 in rat trigeminal ganglia 4-22 days after ligation/section or chronic constriction of the mandibular inferior alveolar nerve. In the normal trigeminal ganglion the anti-P2X3 receptor antibody labeled 37-58% of all neurons. Double labeling demonstrated that about 70-95% of the small neurons that bind the isolectin I-B4 displayed P2X3-immunoreactivity, and that about 40% of larger RT97-positive nerve cells were P2X3 receptor-immunoreactive. At 4 and 10 days after inferior alveolar nerve injury, the proportion of P2X3-immunoreactive neurons had increased to about 65% (range 52-78%). Examinations at the injury sites showed an intense P2X3 receptor-immunoreactivity in nerve endings. At longer survival stages the proportion of P2X3 receptor-positive sensory neurons had returned to control values. These results show that the P2X3 receptor is transiently upregulated and anterogradely transported in trigeminal primary sensory neurons after nerve injury. Since the receptor is accumulated in injured nerve endings, it may be associated with abnormal impulse propagation from these sites.
We measured the concentrations of the neuron-specific protein, tau, in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of 32 neurologically characterized HIV-infected (HIVpos) subjects and nine matched seronegative (HIVneg) controls using a sensitive ELISA assay. Of 32 HIVpos subjects, nine had HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders, and nine had clinically diagnosed peripheral neuropathies. CSF tau levels in subjects with HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders were similar to those in HIVneg subjects (185 +/- 83 vs. 223 +/- 106 pg/ml; P = 57). CSF tau levels in HIVpos subjects with peripheral neuropathies did not differ from those without neuropathies (320 +/- 190 vs. 251 +/- 185; P = 23). In summary, CSF tau levels were not elevated in patients with HIV-associated neurologic disease.
Analysis of transgenic mice expressing familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS)-linked mutations in the enzyme superoxide dismutase (SOD1) have shown that motor neuron death arises from a mutant-mediated toxic property or properties. In testing the disease mechanism, both elimination and elevation of wild-type SOD1 were found to have no effect on mutant-mediated disease, which demonstrates that the use of SOD mimetics is unlikely to be an effective therapy and raises the question of whether toxicity arises from superoxide-mediated oxidative stress. Aggregates containing SOD1 were common to disease caused by different mutants, implying that coaggregation of an unidentified essential component or components or aberrant catalysis by misfolded mutants underlies a portion of mutant-mediated toxicity.
The cardiac sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) protein phospholamban (PLB) is an endogenous inhibitor of the SR Ca(2+)-ATPase. Phosphorylation of PLB relieves this inhibition and up-regulates calcium transport. PLB has proved remarkably difficult to study by conventional solution-state nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) methods, due primarily to the extreme hydrophobic nature of the protein and its propensity to form pentamers. That the C-terminal domain of PLB is helical and membrane spanning is now well established; the structure of the cytoplasmic domain is relatively ill defined. In order to discern the effect of phosphorylation on the structure of the cytoplasmic domain, we have characterized a variety of model peptides in several structure-inducing and/or lipid-mimicking environments using circular dichroism and solution-state NMR. The resolution of peptide structures obtained in aqueous trifluoroethanol was markedly improved by the incorporation of 15N labels into the peptide backbone, allowing a variety of isotope edited, filtered, and resolved techniques to be applied. Molecular dynamics simulations on the full-length protein were combined with an analysis of published data to suggest a revised model for the structure of PLB.


Adenoviral vector directed gene transfer to rat facial motoneurons occurs efficiently following intra-parenchymal injection of relatively high dosages (&gt; or =10(7) pfu per injection) of a prototype first generation adenoviral vector. However, high level of transgene expression, as observed during the first week following administration of the adenoviral vector, declines during the second and third weeks and is associated with a local inflammatory response. In the present study rats were treated with dexamethasone to suppress the inflammatory response that occurs following administration of a first generation adenoviral vector and the effect of dexamethasone treatment on the duration of transgene expression was studied. Dexamethasone-treated rats displayed a reduced infiltration of macrophages and intra-parenchymal T-cells were not detectable at 14 days post-infusion of the viral vector. Transduced astrocytes persisted following treatment with dexamethasone, whereas only a few transduced motoneurons survived. In conclusion, suppression of inflammation by dexamethasone has a beneficial effect on the survival of transduced astroglial cells but exerts only moderate protection on transduced facial motoneurons.
Caspases are widely conserved proteases considered to be essential effectors of apoptosis. We identified a novel Drosophila gene, dredd, which shares extensive homology to all members of the caspase gene family. Cells specified for programmed death in development exhibit a striking accumulation of dredd RNA that requires signaling by the death activators REAPER, GRIM, and HID. Furthermore, directed misexpression of each activator was sufficient to drive ectopic accumulation of dredd RNA. Heterozygosity at the dredd locus suppressed apoptosis in transgenic models of reaper- and grim-induced cell killing, demonstrating that levels of dredd product can modulate signaling triggered by these death activators. Finally, expression of REAPER, GRIM, and HID was found to trigger processing of DREDD protein precursor through a mechanism that is insensitive to, and upstream of, known caspase inhibitors. Taken together, these observations establish mechanistic connections between activators of apoptosis and a new downstream death effector in Drosophila.
The effects of the divalent cations strontium and magnesium on Shaker K channels expressed in Xenopus oocytes were investigated with a two-electrode voltage-clamp technique. 20 mM of the divalent cation shifted activation (conductance vs. potential), steady-state inactivation and inactivation time constant vs. potential curves 10-11 mV along the potential axis. The results were interpreted in terms of the surface charge theory, and the surface charge density was estimated to be -0.27 e nm-2. A comparison of primary structure data and experimental data from the present and previous studies suggests that the first five residues on the extracellular loop between transmembrane segment 5 and the pore region constitutes the functional surface charges. The results further suggest that the surface charge density plays an important role in controlling the activation voltage range.
The action of Mg2+ on the putative xKv1.1 channel in the myelinated axon of Xenopus laevis was analyzed in voltage clamp experiments. The main effect was a shift in positive direction of the open probability curve (16 mV at 20 mM Mg2+), calculated from measurements of the instantaneous current at Na reversal potential after 50-100 msec steps to different potentials. The shift was measured at an open probability level of 25% to separate it from shifts of other K channel populations in the nodal region. The results could be explained in terms of screening effects on fixed charges located on the surface of the channel protein. Using the Grahame equation the functional charge density was estimated to -0.45 e nm-2. Analyzing this value, together with previously estimated values from other K channels, with reference to the charge of different extracellular loops of the channel protein, we conclude that the loop between the transmembrane S5 segment and the pore forming P segment determines the functional charge density of voltage-gated K channels.
Exposure of tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH), the initial and rate-limiting enzyme in the biosynthesis of the neurotransmitter serotonin, to dopamine under mild oxidizing conditions (iron + H2O2) or in the presence of tyrosinase results in a concentration-dependent inactivation of the enzyme. Dopamine, iron, H2O2, or tyrosinase alone does not alter TPH activity. Similarly, N-acetyldopamine oxidized with one equivalent of sodium periodate causes a concentration-dependent inactivation of TPH as well. TPH is protected from dopamine-induced inactivation by reduced glutathione, ascorbic acid, and dithiothreitol but not by the radical scavengers DMSO, mannitol, or superoxide dismutase. Parallel studies with [3H]dopamine reveal a high negative correlation between inhibition of catalysis and incorporation of tritium into the enzyme. Those reducing agents and antioxidants that protect TPH from inactivation are effective in preventing the labeling of TPH by [3H]dopamine. Acid hydrolysis and HPLC with electrochemical detection (HPLC-EC) analysis of inactivated TPH revealed the formation of cysteinyl-dopamine residues within the enzyme. Exposure of dopamine-modified TPH to redox-cycling staining after SDS-PAGE confirmed the formation of a quinoprotein. These results indicate that dopamine-quinones covalently modify cysteinyl residues in TPH, leading directly to the loss of catalytic activity, and establish that TPH could be a target for dopamine-quinones in vivo after drugs (e.g., neurotoxic amphetamines) that cause dopamine-dependent inactivation of TPH. Redox cycling of a TPH-quinoprotein could also participate in the serotonin neuronal toxicity caused by these same drugs.
Visually guided, goal-directed reaching requires encoding action distance and direction from attributes of visual landmarks. We identified a cognitive mechanism that seemingly performs visual motor extension before action initiation and replicated and extended previous results that identified a mechanism for visual motor mental rotation. We find that humans systematically delay action onset while newly planning increasingly distant arm movements beyond a visual landmark, consistent with an internal representation for visual motor extension. Onset times also changed systematically during concurrent mental rotation and visual motor extension computations required to process new directions and distances. Visual motor extension associated with reaching slowed when participants needed to plan action direction within the same time frame, whereas mental rotation efficiency was unaffected by concurrent needs to prepare action distance. In contrast to parallel direction and distance computations needed for direct aiming to a visual target, the planning of new directions and distances likely occurs at distinct times. When considered with previous findings, the current results suggest the existence of an intermediate component of motor preparation that engages a covert mechanism of cognitive motor planning.
It has been hypothesized that a deficit in serotonin may be a crucial determinant in the pathophysiology of major depression. Serotonin-1A receptors are located on serotonin cell bodies in the midbrain dorsal raphe (DR) nucleus, and the activation of these receptors inhibits the firing of serotonin neurons and diminishes the release of this neurotransmitter in the prefrontal cortex. Repeated treatment with some antidepressant medications desensitizes serotonin-1A receptors in the rat midbrain. The present study determined whether the binding of [3H]8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propyl)aminotetralin (8-OH-DPAT), an agonist at serotonin-1A receptors, is altered in the midbrain of suicide victims with major depression. Radiolabeling of the serotonin-1A receptor in the DR varied significantly along the rostral-to-caudal extent of the human midbrain. The binding of [3H]8-OH-DPAT to serotonin-1A receptors was increased significantly in the midbrain DR of suicide victims with major depression as compared with psychiatrically normal control subjects. In suicide victims with major depression, the increase in the binding of [3H]8-OH-DPAT to serotonin-1A receptors was detected in the entire DR and specifically localized to the dorsal and ventrolateral subnuclei. Enhanced radioligand binding of an agonist to inhibitory serotonin-1A autoreceptors in the human DR provides pharmacological evidence to support the hypothesis of diminished activity of serotonin neurons in suicide victims with major depression.
Long-term neuronal plasticity is known to be dependent on rapid de novo synthesis of mRNA and protein, and recent studies provide insight into the molecules involved in this response. Here, we demonstrate that mRNA encoding a member of the regulator of G-protein signaling (RGS) family, RGS2, is rapidly induced in neurons of the hippocampus, cortex, and striatum in response to stimuli that evoke plasticity. Although several members of the RGS family are expressed in brain with discrete neuronal localizations, RGS2 appears unique in that its expression is dynamically responsive to neuronal activity. In biochemical assays, RGS2 stimulates the GTPase activity of the alpha subunit of Gq and Gi1. The effect on Gi1 was observed only after reconstitution of the protein in phospholipid vesicles containing M2 muscarinic acetylcholine receptors. RGS2 also inhibits both Gq- and Gi-dependent responses in transfected cells. These studies suggest a novel mechanism linking neuronal activity and signal transduction.
Long-term potentiation (LTP), a persistent enhancement of synaptic transmission that may be involved in some forms of learning and memory, is induced at excitatory synapses in the CA1 region of the hippocampus by coincident presynaptic and postsynaptic activity. Although action potentials back-propagating into dendrites of hippocampal pyramidal cells provide sufficient postsynaptic activity to induce LTP under some in vitro conditions, it is not known whether LTP can be induced by patterns of postsynaptic action potential firing that occur in these cells in vivo. Here we report that a characteristic in vivo pattern of action potential generation in CA1 pyramidal cells known as the complex spike burst enables the induction of LTP during theta frequency synaptic stimulation in the CA1 region of hippocampal slices maintained in vitro. Our results suggest that complex spike bursting may have an important role in synaptic processes involved in learning and memory formation, perhaps by producing a highly sensitive postsynaptic state during which even low frequencies of presynaptic activity can induce LTP.
Synaptic modulation and long-term synaptic changes are thought to be the cellular correlates for learning and memory (Madison et al., 1991; Aiba et al., 1994, Goda and Stevens, 1996). The hippocampus is a center for learning and memory that receives abundant cholinergic innervation and has a high density of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) (Wada et al., 1989; Woolf, 1991). We report that stro ng, brief stimulation of nAChRs enhanced hippocampal glutamatergic synaptic transmission on two independent time scales and altered the relationship between consecutively evoked synaptic currents. The nicotinic synaptic enhancement required extracellular calcium and was produced by the activation of presynaptic alpha7-containing nAChRs. Although one form of glutamatergic enhancement lasted only for seconds, another form lasted for minutes after the nicotinic stimulation had ceased and the nicotinic agonist had been washed away. The synaptic enhancement lasting minutes suggests that nAChR activity can initiate calcium-dependent mechanisms that are known to induce glutamatergic synaptic plasticity. The results with evoked synaptic currents showed that nAChR activity can alter the relationship between the incoming presynaptic activity and outgoing postsynaptic signaling along glutamatergic fibers. Thus, the same information arriving along the same glutamatergic afferents will be processed differently when properly timed nicotinic activity converges onto the glutamatergic presynaptic terminals. Influencing information processing at glutamatergic synapses may be one way in which nicotinic cholinergic activity influences cognitive processes. Disruption of these nicotinic cholinergic mechanisms may contribute to the deficits associated with the degeneration of cholinergic functions during Alzheimer's disease.
The bioactive lipid platelet-activating factor (PAF) accumulates in brain during injury, seizures and ischemia and may, in addition, be significant in AIDS dementia and in other neurodegenerative diseases. We have used plasma-type recombinant PAF acetylhydrolase (rPAF-AH) to test the hypothesis that PAF accumulation is involved in early events leading to neuronal apoptosis during excitotoxic neuronal injury. Neuronal cultures were labeled with FITC-12-dUTP (TUNEL technique) and propidium iodide, digitized using fluorescence microscopy and a chilled 3CCD color camera, and analyzed with 2D graphics analysis software. N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) (50 microM, 2 hr) induced a 2.5-fold increase in apoptosis of hippocampal neurons compared with controls when analyzed 24 hr after NMDA treatment. Hippocampal neurons receiving rPAF-AH (20 microg/ml) before, during, and after NMDA treatment demonstrated a concentration-dependent neuroprotective effect which resulted in 47% and 30% neuroprotection against 50 and 100 microM NMDA, respectively. The noncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801(300 nM) completely inhibited apoptosis caused by NMDA. The neuroprotective effect of rPAF-AH against NMDA-induced apoptosis was confirmed using as additional criteria, histone release, electron microscopy, and DNA laddering. Neuroprotection elicited by rPAF-AH demonstrates that PAF is an injury mediator in NMDA-induced neuronal apoptosis and that the recombinant protein is potentially useful as a therapeutic approach.
Neurogenesis in the peripheral and central nervous systems proceeds in region-specific fashion, although underlying mechanisms remain undefined. Emerging evidence indicates that the neuropeptide PACAP and its G-protein-coupled receptor are expressed widely in the embryonic brain, suggesting that the ligand/receptor system plays a role in development. We found previously that PAC1-R activation elicited opposing mitogenic effects in neurogenetic cultures, stimulating peripheral sympathetic neuroblasts while inhibiting cerebral cortical precursors. We have now defined the expression of PAC1-R mRNA isoforms and activation of second-messenger pathways in these model populations. Sympathetic neuroblasts express the &quot;hop&quot; receptor isoform, through which PACAP elicits increased levels of cAMP and activation of the PI signaling pathway. In contrast, cerebral cortical precursors express primarily the &quot;short&quot; (non-insert) receptor isoform and exhibit increased cAMP levels alone following PACAP treatment. Thus, opposing mitogenic regulation in sympathetic and cortical precursors correlates with differential receptor isoform expression and distinct second-messenger signaling. In addition to receptor, PACAP ligand mRNA was expressed by both populations, suggesting that the peptide is produced and acts locally to regulate precursor proliferation. These observations indicate that the PACAP ligand/receptor system is expressed in both the peripheral and central nervous system during development. More generally, these studies suggest that widely expressed extracellular factors mediate region-specific neurogenesis by activating lineage-restricted receptor isoforms and intracellular pathways.
1. Developmental changes in amplitude and time course of single-fibre-evoked and spontaneous EPSCs mediated by AMPA and NMDA receptors at the endbulb-bushy cell synapse of rats from 4 to 22 days of age were recorded using whole-cell patch-clamp methods in in vitro slices of cochlear nucleus. 2. The mean conductance of the AMPA component of evoked EPSCs increased by 66 %, while that of the NMDA component decreased by 61 %, for 12- to 18-day-old rats cf. 4- to 11-day-old rats. 3. The mean AMPA spontaneous EPSC conductance increased by 54 %, while mean NMDA spontaneous EPSC conductance decreased by 83 %, for 12- to 22-day-old rats cf. 4- to 11-day-old rats. The mean number of quanta contributing to peak evoked AMPA conductance also increased by 78 % in the older age group, after correction for the asynchrony of evoked quantal release. 4. The decay time constant of spontaneous AMPA EPSCs showed a small decrease in older animals, while the decay time constant of spontaneous NMDA EPSCs was markedly decreased in older animals. The decay time constants of evoked NMDA EPSCs showed a quantitatively similar decrease to that of spontaneous NMDA EPSCs. This suggests that AMPA receptor subunit composition is unlikely to undergo developmental change, while NMDA receptor subunit composition may be substantially altered during synaptic maturation. 5. These data are consistent with a developmentally increased efficacy of AMPA receptor-mediated synaptic transmission at the endbulb-bushy cell synapse, due to an increase in underlying AMPA-mediated quantal size and content during the same period as a transient co-localization of NMDA receptors.
1. During block of gamma-aminobutyric acid-A-mediated inhibition, low-frequency stimulation (2 Hz, 900 pulses) to Schaffer collateral-CA1 neuron synapses of adult rat hippocampus induced an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-independent, postsynaptic Ca2+-dependent depression of synaptic strength (long-term depression; LTD). 2. Ratio imaging with fura-2 revealed moderate dendritic [Ca2+] increases (approximately 500 nM) during only the initial approximately 30 s of the 7.5 min stimulation period. Conditioning for 30 s was, however, insufficient to induce LTD. 3. The [Ca2+] changes were insensitive to the metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) antagonist (+)-alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine (MCPG). MCPG, however, completely blocked LTD when present during conditioning. 4. The [Ca2+] changes were abolished by postsynaptic hyperpolarization (-110 mV at the soma). Hyperpolarizing neurons to -110 mV during conditioning significantly attenuated LTD induction. 5. LTD induction was also blocked by the postsynaptic presence of the protein kinase C inhibitor peptide PKC(19-36). 6. These results suggest that LTD induction in adult hippocampus by prolonged low-frequency stimulation depends on both a rapid Ca2+ influx through voltage-sensitive channels and synaptic stimulation of mGluRs which may be coupled to phospholipase C.
The manner in which the thousands of synaptic inputs received by a pyramidal neuron are summed is critical both to our understanding of the computations that may be performed by single neurons and of the codes used by neurons to transmit information. Recent work on pyramidal cell dendrites has shown that subthreshold synaptic inputs are modulated by voltage-dependent channels, raising the possibility that summation of synaptic responses is influenced by the active properties of dendrites. Here, we use somatic and dendritic whole-cell recordings to show that pyramidal cells in hippocampal area CA3 sum distal and proximal excitatory postsynaptic potentials sublinearly and actively, that the degree of nonlinearity depends on the magnitude and timing of the excitatory postsynaptic potentials, and that blockade of transient potassium channels linearizes summation. Nonlinear summation of synaptic inputs could have important implications for the computations performed by single neurons and also for the role of the mossy fiber and perforant path inputs to hippocampal area CA3.
As reported before, the metabolic activity of nucleus basalis neurons is reduced significantly in Alzheimer patients. Because the apolipoprotein E (ApoE) epsilon4 genotype is a major risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD), we determined whether the decrease in metabolic activity in nucleus basalis neurons in AD is ApoE-type dependent. The size of the Golgi apparatus (GA) was determined as a measure of neuronal metabolic activity in 30 controls and 41 AD patients with a known ApoE genotype by using an image analysis system in the nucleus basalis of Meynert. A polyclonal antibody directed against MG-160, a sialoglycoprotein of the GA, was used to visualize this organelle. There was a very strong reduction in the size of the GA in the nucleus basalis of AD patients. Furthermore, a strong and significant extra reduction in the size of the GA was found in the nucleus basalis neurons of AD patients with either one or two ApoE epsilon4 alleles compared with Alzheimer patients without ApoE epsilon4 alleles. Our data show that the decreased activity of nucleus basalis neurons in AD is ApoE epsilon4 dependent and suggest that ApoE epsilon4 participates in the pathogenesis of AD by decreasing neuronal metabolism.
These experiments observed the immediate and long-term effects of neonatal treatment with MK-801 on patterned single alternation (PSA), a form of nonspatial, memory-based learning. Rat pups were injected daily on postnatal days (PND) 7-19, with MK-801 (MK+) or the less active isomer of MK-801 (MK-) (0.25 mg/kg), and trained at either PND 22 or 60. Rats treated with MK+ or MK- and trained on PND 22 were significantly impaired in PSA when compared with the saline control. Beyond the learning impairment, MK+ rats showed an overall decreased running speed during training. They also presented an array of abnormal behaviors and significant weight loss. These nonassociative variables were determined for several doses (0.025, 0. 05, 0.1, 0.15, and 0.20 mg/kg) through PND days 22-25. Rats that received the threshold dose for secondary effects (0.025 mg/kg) also showed an overall decrease in running speed, but failed to show a significant nonspatial learning impairment on PSA. The PSA learning impairment was found to be not long lasting; rats trained at PND 60, after neonatally receiving the original high dose of MK-801, did not differ from controls.
To identify genes expressed in the vertebrate inner ear, we have established an assay that allows rapid analysis of the differential expression pattern of mRNAs derived from an auditory epithelium-specific cDNA library. We performed subtractive hybridization to create an enriched probe, which then was used to screen the cDNA library. After digoxigenin-labeled antisense cRNAs had been transcribed from hybridization-positive clones, we conducted in situ hybridization on slides bearing cryosections of late embryonic chicken heads, bodies, and cochleae. One hundred and twenty of the 196 clones analyzed encode 12 proteins whose mRNAs are specifically or highly expressed in the chicken's inner ear; the remainder encode proteins that occur more widely. We identified proteins that have been described previously as expressed in the inner ear, such as beta-tectorin, calbindin, and type II collagen. A second group of proteins abundant in the inner ear includes five additional types of collagens. A third group, including Coch-5B2 and an ear-specific connexin, comprises proteins whose human equivalents are candidates to account for hearing disorders. This group also includes proteins expressed in two unique cell types of the inner ear, homogene cells and cells of the tegmentum vasculosum.

Reactive oxygen species are thought to be involved in the death of dopaminergic neurons in Parkinson's disease as well as in transplanted embryonic dopaminergic neurons. The spin-trap agent alpha-phenyl-N-tert-butyl nitrone (PBN) reacts directly with radical species and may thereby prevent them from damaging important cellular molecules such as membrane lipids. We found that PBN does not increase the survival of cultured embryonic dopaminergic neurons subjected to serum deprivation, whereas the antioxidant and lipid peroxidation inhibitor lazaroid U-83836E does. Moreover, PBN does not increase the survival of grafted embryonic dopaminergic neurons or graft efficacy (monitored as changes in drug-induced motor asymmetry in hemiparkinsonian rats) when the spin-trap agent is given intraperitoneally to the graft recipient or is added to the solutions used when preparing tissue for transplantation. Another spin-trap agent, alpha-(4-pyridyl-1-oxide)-N-tert-butyl nitrone (POBN) also failed to protect neurons when given to graft recipients in the same experimental paradigm. Finally, we found that adult nigral neurons subjected to a progressive retrograde 6-OHDA lesion are not protected by systemic treatment with PBN. Even though reduction of oxidative stress by overexpression of superoxide dismutase or addition of lazaroids have previously been shown to enhance the survival of cultured and grafted dopaminergic neurons, spin-trap agents PBN and POBN do not provide protection in these experimental paradigms. This may be due to antioxidants and spin-trap agents interfering in different steps of free radical-induced cell damage.
Immune system activation induces increase in expression level and enzymatic activity of interleukin-1 beta converting enzyme (ICE) in rat brain. As ICE has been implicated in apoptotic cell death, a possible link may exist between immune system activation by bacterial endotoxic lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and apoptosis in rat brain. The aim of this study was to investigate possible effect of acute (5.5 h) or chronic (5 days) intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration and central injection of LPS on brain apoptotic cell death. Body temperature was continuously monitored for fever, a hallmark of immune activation. Detection of apoptotic cell death was carried out by using in situ labelling of DNA fragmentation in various brain structures. Despite the chronic or the acute pyrogenic effects of LPS, no evidence for apoptotic cell death was observed in any of the brain areas analysed, including hippocampus, hypothalamus, area postrema, subfornical organ, organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis and nucleus tractus solitaris. Other well-known sites of apoptotic cell death, including brain of ischemic rat, mammary gland of post-lactating rat and rat intestine as well as Dnase-treated rat brain slices, were used as positive controls. These results suggest that ICE activation during fever development is dissociated from cell death by apoptosis in rat brain. Unlike peripheral targets of immunocompetent cytokines, a protective system, yet to be defined, may be present in the central nervous system and block the deleterious effects of infectious agents and cytokines.
The paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN) modulates vagal digestive motor functions via oxytocinergic projections to the nucleus of the solitary tract (NST) and dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (DMV) in adult rats. Little is known regarding the structural or functional maturation of these projections. The present study examines the postnatal development of immunocytochemically identified oxytocinergic fibers in gastric subregions of the medial NST-DMV. For this purpose, a monoclonal antibody (PS36) that recognizes both oxytocin (OT)-neurophysin and its prohormone was used to identify oxytocinergic fibers. PS36-positive fibers already were present within the NST-DMV in rats on the day of birth. Retrograde transport of cholera toxin neural tracer from the NST-DMV in newborn rats confirmed that PVN neurons were the sole source of these oxytocinergic fibers. The cumulative length of PS36-positive fibers in sampled subregions of the medial NST and DMV increased approximately 23-fold and 94-fold, respectively, between birth and adulthood. The observed postnatal increases in PS36 immunolabeling could reflect increased delivery of immunoreactive antigen from hypothalamic perikarya to distal axons and/or increasing oxytocinergic innervation of the NST-DMV. Additional work will be needed to address these questions and to determine the time course during which central oxytocinergic pathways become mature in their ability to influence vagally mediated digestive functions.
We have cultured neurones from the developing cortex of mice that have had the amyloid precursor protein gene deleted (APP-null). Neurones cultured for a period of 24 h show similar neurite outgrowth and survival responses to wild-type neurones. Similar neurite outgrowth responses were also seen when neurones from APP-null mice were treated with a neurotrophic peptide derived from the APP sequence and compared with wild-type neurones. Finally, cortical cultures derived from APP-null mice showed similar survival responses to the toxic amyloid-beta peptide.
Three areas of the left hemisphere play different roles in sentence comprehension. An area of posterior middle and superior temporal gyrus shows activation correlated with the structural complexity of a sentence, suggesting that this area supports processing of sentence structure. The lateral anterior temporal gyrus is more activated bilaterally by all sentence conditions than by word lists; thus the function of the area probably does not directly support processing of structure but rather processing of words specific to a sentence context. Left inferior frontal cortex also shows activation related to sentence complexity but is also more activated in word list processing than in simple sentences; this region may thus support a form of verbal working memory which maintains sentence structural information as well as lexical items.
The activity of tyrosine hydroxylase and aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase in the striatum and their mRNA content in the midbrain were assayed in mice following the intracerebroventricular injection of forskolin or phorbol-12,13-myristic acid (PMA). Control and 1-methyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned animals were studied. Both forskolin and PMA induced a rapid and transient increase of tyrosine hydroxylase and aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase activity in the striatum that lasted less than 45 and 60 min, respectively. A second belated increase of striatal tyrosine hydroxylase and aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase activities was seen only after forskolin, and it was accompanied by a rise of tyrosine hydroxylase and aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase mRNA in the midbrain. In the MPTP-lesioned mouse, the rise of tyrosine hydroxylase and aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase following forskolin appeared exaggerated, while the response to PMA was not. These studies suggest that tyrosine hydroxylase and aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase of striatum can be modulated in parallel by protein kinase A and protein kinase C, and that exaggerated responsiveness to protein kinase A is observed in the partially denervated striatum.
Cyclazocine is a kappa-opioid receptor agonist and mu-opioid receptor antagonist that was studied in the 1960s as a potential treatment for heroin addicts. Based on the evidence that opioid mechanisms modulate the reinforcing effects of cocaine, it has been suggested that cyclazocine be reconsidered for use in treating cocaine dependence. In the present study, the effects of orally administered (+/-)-cyclazocine, (+)-cyclazocine and (-)-cyclazocine on intravenous cocaine self-administration were assessed in rats. (+/-)-Cyclazocine produced a dose-related (2-8 mg/kg) decrease in cocaine intake without affecting bar-press responding for water. Neither enantiomer significantly altered responding for either cocaine or water. The efficacy of orally administered (+/-)-cyclazocine on cocaine self-administration was comparable to that previously observed using the intraperitoneal route. Distinct actions of the enantiomers of cyclazocine that might contribute to the unique efficacy of the racemate are discussed. Although the mechanistic basis for the results are not entirely understood, the data suggest that (+/-)-cyclazocine should be considered as a potential treatment for cocaine dependence.
Using cysteine (Cys) scanning mutagenesis of the inward rectifier K+ channel Kir2.1, we investigated its pore structure and putative conformational changes. In the background of the Kir2.1 mutant C149F which showed no sensitivity towards Cys-modifying reagents, Cys residues were introduced at 10 positions in the H5 pore region. Out of six functional mutants, T141C and F147C showed clear changes in current amplitude when Cys-modifying reagents were applied from the external side. These results suggest that the corresponding sections of the H5 pore region face to the external side which is in contrast to the results previously obtained for voltage-gated K+ (Kv) channels. Using the mutants T141C and F147C, we investigated whether or not Kir2.1 channels show state-dependent conformational changes of the pore structure. Substantial alterations of the holding potential or external K+ concentration, however, did not cause any significant change in the speed of channel modification upon application of Cys-specific reagents, suggesting that Kir2.1 channels do not undergo conformational changes, in contrast to C-type inactivating Kv channels.
Reperfusion after transient focal ischemia of 2 h duration is followed by secondary bioenergetic failure after 4 h of reperfusion. The objective of the present study was to explore whether or not this secondary deterioration is due to secondary microcirculatory compromise. Normal fasted rats were subjected to 2 h of MCA occlusion and allowed reperfusion for 2, 4, 6 and 8 h. At predetermined reperfusion times, rats were injected with Evans blue and decapitated. Capillary patency was determined using a fluorescent double-staining technique. No capillary perfusion deficits were detected in the ischemic neocortical penumbra, neocortical focus or striatal focus. We concluded that the secondary deterioration of bioenergetic state is not due to microcirculatory compromise. Since hyperglycemic animals show pan-necrotic lesions, a hyperglycemic group was added at 8 h of reperfusion to test if the adverse effect of hyperglycemia on ischemic damage is related to capillary compromise. The results showed that, in hyperglycemic rats, capillary perfusion in the striatal focus was compromised after 8 h of recirculation following 2 h of MCA occlusion. It is concluded that when normoglycemic rats are subjected to 2 h of MCA occlusion, capillary patency is not affected during the first 4-6 h of reflow. At 8 h of reflow, though, particularly in hyperglycemic rats, microcirculation is compromised in the caudoputamenal focus, probably reflecting infarction.
It has long been felt that one of the reasons that the immature brain has an increased propensity to seize is due to an inability to regulate the extracellular potassium ([K+]o). However, the data supporting this hypothesis is controversial. Here, we tested the regulation of [K+]o in urethane-anesthetized juvenile and adult rats during and after synchronized epileptiform activity induced by 20 Hz stimulus trains to the CA3 region. The regulation of [K+]o in CA3 was compared to the same measurements in CA1. Across all age groups, there was no difference between CA1 and CA3. There was a slight decrease in the peak level of [K+]o reached during stimulation only in the youngest age groups tested (PN9-11). There was an age-dependent change in the rate of recovery of [K+]o from the elevated levels. This recovery was slowest in the PN9-11 age group. In all the animals in the PN9-11 group and 3/7 animals in the PN14-15 group, there was a secondary increase in the [K+]o during the afterdischarge. This secondary rise was never observed in animals over 15 days of age. These data confirm that there is altered regulation of [K+]o in the developing brain that takes two forms: (1) the ability to recover from elevated [K+]o levels, suggesting maturation of regulatory, or uptake, mechanisms; and (2) that which is related to mechanisms of synchronization and initiation of afterdischarges and the level of [K+]o that is produced during the discharge.
The genetic defect in dentatorubral-pallidoluysian atrophy (DRPLA) is expansion of the CAG repeat. The mutant gene is translated into the protein which carries the expanded glutamine repeat. Immunoblots of human brain tissues with and without reduction show that the DRPLA protein is a disulfide-bond complex and that more of this complex is formed in DRPLA brains than in control brains. This suggests that DRPLA protein undergoes greater complex formation in DRPLA brains and the expanded glutamine repeat may enhance complex formation of untruncated DRPLA protein in DRPLA brains. Immunohistochemical findings show that DRPLA protein is localized in the cytoplasm of the neuron, evidence that it undergoes rare disulfide bonding there.
Synaptotagmin I is a synaptic vesicle membrane protein that probably functions as a Ca2+ sensor in neurotransmitter release and contains two C2-domains which bind Ca2+. The first C2-domain of synaptotagmin I (the C2A-domain) binds phospholipids in a Ca2+-dependent manner similar to that of the C2-domains of protein kinase C, cytoplasmic phospholipase A2, and phospholipase Cdelta1. Although the tertiary structure of these C2-domains is known, the molecular basis for their Ca2+-dependent interactions with phospholipids is unclear. We have now investigated the mechanisms involved in Ca2+-dependent phospholipid binding by the C2A-domain of synaptotagmin I. Our data show that the C2A-domain binds negatively charged liposomes in an electrostatic interaction that is determined by the charge density of the liposome surface but not by the phospholipid headgroup. At the tip of the C2A-domain, three tightly clustered Ca2+-binding sites are formed by five aspartates and one serine. Mutations in these aspartate and serine residues demonstrated that all three Ca2+-binding sites are required for phospholipid binding. The Ca2+ binding sites at the top of the C2A-domain are surrounded by positively charged amino acids that were shown by mutagenesis to be also involved in phospholipid binding. Our results yield a molecular picture of the interactions between a C2-domain and phospholipids. Binding is highly electrostatic and occurs between the surfaces of the phospholipid bilayer and of the tip of the C2A-domain. The data suggest that the negatively charged phospholipid headgroups interact with the basic side chains surrounding the Ca2+-binding sites and with bound Ca2+ ions, thereby filling empty coordination sites and increasing the apparent affinity for Ca2+. In addition, insertion of hydrophobic side chains may contribute to phospholipid binding. This model is likely to be general for other C2-domains, with the relative contributions of electrostatic and hydrophobic interactions dictated by the exposed side chains surrounding the Ca2+-binding region.
Caveolins 1, 2 and 3 are the principal protein components of caveolae organelles. It has been proposed that caveolae play a vital role in a number of essential cellular functions including signal transduction, lipid metabolism, cellular growth control and apoptotic cell death. Thus, a major focus of caveolae-related research has been the identification of novel caveolins, caveolae-associated proteins and caveolin-interacting proteins. However, virtually nothing is known about the expression of caveolins in brain tissue. Here, we report the purification and characterization of caveolins from brain tissue under non-denaturing conditions. As a final step in the purification, we employed immuno-affinity chromatography using rabbit polyclonal anti-caveolin IgG and specific elution at alkaline pH. The final purified brain caveolin fractions contained three bands with molecular masses of 52 kDa, 24 kDa and 22 kDa as visualized by silver staining. Sequencing by ion trap mass spectrometry directly identified the major 24-kDa component of this hetero-oligomeric complex as caveolin 1. Further immunocyto- and histochemical analyses demonstrated that caveolin 1 was primarily expressed in brain endothelial cells. Caveolins 2 and 3 were also detected in purified caveolin fractions and brain cells. The cellular distribution of caveolin 2 was similar to that of caveolin 1. In striking contrast, caveolin 3 was predominantly expressed in brain astroglial cells. This finding was surprising as our previous studies have suggested that the expression of caveolin 3 is confined to striated (cardiac and skeletal) and smooth muscle cells. Electron-microscopic analysis revealed that astrocytes possess numerous caveolar invaginations of the plasma membrane. Our results provide the first biochemical and histochemical evidence that caveolins 1, 2 and 3 are expressed in brain endothelial and astroglial cells.
Self-stimulation (SS) rewarding experience induced alterations in the density of excrescences in the apical dendrites of CA3 neurons were studied in adult male Wistar rats. SS experience was provided daily for an hour over a period of 10 days, through bipolar stainless steel electrodes implanted bilaterally in lateral hypothalamus and substantia nigra-ventral tegmental area. The results revealed a significant (P&lt;0.001) increase in the number of excrescences in both main shaft and sub branches of the apical dendrites in SS experienced group compared to control groups of rats. The increased number of excrescences in CA3 neurons might be due to an enhancement in the synaptic transmission in the mossy fiber pathway following SS experience.
The present study analyzes the transcription of the human prodynorphin gene. Transfection experiments indicate that promoter activity for the 2.8 kb 'brain-type' human prodynorphin mRNA resides in the DNA region located 140-180 b upstream of the exon 1/intron A boundary and not 1.2 kb further upstream, as proposed by others [S. Horikawa, T. Takai, M. Toyosato, H. Takahashi, M. Noda, H. Kakidani, T. Kubo, T. Hirose, S. Tanayama, H. Hayashida, T. Miyata, S. Numa, Isolation and structural organization of the human preproenkephalin B gene, Nature 306, 1983, pp. 611-614]. The new data locates the human prodynorphin gene promoter for the brain-type mRNA in a position corresponding to the position of the rat prodynorphin gene promoter [J. Douglass, C.T. McMurray, J.E. Garett, J.P. Adelman, L. Calavetta, Characterization of the rat prodynorphin gene, Mol. Endocrinol. 3, 1989, pp. 2070-2078]. Three previously not described types of human prodynorphin mRNA of the same size, 2.8 kb, one expressed in fetal brain and two others in testis, were characterized in this study. These mRNAs are generated by alternative splicing of novel 5'-uppermost exons and transcription is probably initiated from other promoters. Human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y and SK-N-MC cell lines previously used in studies of gene transcription have the 2.8 kb prodynorphin mRNA of adult brain alongside a more abundant, shorter 2.3 kb transcript. The latter transcript was also found in testis and in fetal brain. It lacked the 5'-part of the 2.8 kb mRNA including the signal peptide encoding sequence. The complex pattern of prodynorphin gene expression and its functional consequences are issues for further studies.
Kainic acid-induced seizures in rats represent an established animal model for human temporal lobe epilepsy. However, it is well-known that behavioral responses to the systemic administration of kainic acid are inconsistent between animals. In this study, we examined the relationship between expression of genes, neuropathological damage, and behavioral changes (seizure intensity and body temperature) in rats after systemic administration of kainic acid. The considerable differences in the response to kainic acid-induced seizures were observed in rats after a single administration of kainic acid (12 mg/kg i.p.). There was no detection of the expression of heat shock protein hsp-70 mRNA and HSP-70 protein in brain of vehicle-treated controls and in animals exhibiting weak behavioral changes (stage 1-2). A moderate expression of hsp-70 mRNA was detected throughout all regions (the pyramidal cell layers of CA1-3 and dentate gyrus) of the hippocampus, the basolateral, lateral, central and medial amygdala, the piriform cortex, and the central medial thalamic nucleus of rats that developed moderate seizures (stage 3-4). Marked expression of hsp-70 mRNA was detected in the all regions (cingulate, parietal, somatosensory, insular, entorhinal, piriform cortices) of cerebral cortex and all regions of hippocampus, and the central medial thalamic nucleus of the rats that developed severe seizures (stage 4-5). In addition, marked HSP-70 immunoreactivity was detected in the pyramidal cell layers of CA1 and CA3 regions of hippocampus, all regions (cingulate, parietal, somatosensory, insular, piriform cortices) of cerebral cortex, and the striatum of rats that developed severe seizures (stage 4-5). Furthermore, a marked expression of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) mRNA and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mRNA levels by kainic acid-induced behavioral seizures (stage 3-4 or stage 4-5) was detected in all hippocampal pyramidal cell layers, granule layers of dentate gyrus, piriform cortex, neocortex, and amygdala. The present study suggest that the behavioral changes (seizure intensity and body temperature) and neuropathological damage after systemic administration of kainic acid are inconsistent between animals, and that these behavioral changes (severity of kainic acid-induced limbic seizures) might be correlated with gene expression of hsp-70 mRNA, COX-2 mRNA, and BDNF mRNA in rat brain.
The growth-factor-like phospholipid lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) mediates a wide variety of biological functions. We recently reported the cloning of the first G-protein-coupled receptor for LPA, called ventricular zone gene-1 (vzg-1/lpA1/edg-2) because its embryonic central nervous system (CNS) expression is restricted to the neocortical ventricular zone (Hecht et al. [1996] J. Cell Biol. 135:1071-1083). Vzg-1 neural expression diminishes at the end of the cortical neurogenetic period, just before birth. Here, we have investigated the subsequent reappearance of vzg-1 expression in the postnatal murine brain, by using in situ hybridization and northern blot analyses. Vzg-1 expression was undetectable by in situ hybridization at birth, but reappeared in the hindbrain during the 1st postnatal week. Subsequently, expression expanded from caudal to rostral, with peak expression observed around postnatal day 18. At all postnatal ages, vzg-1 expression was concentrated in and around developing white matter tracts, and its expansion, peak, and subsequent downregulation closely paralleled the progress of myelination. Double-label in situ hybridization studies demonstrated that vzg-1-expressing cells co-expressed mRNA encoding proteolipid protein (PLP), a mature oligodendrocyte marker, but not glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), an astrocyte marker. Consistent with this, vzg-1 mRNA expression was reduced by 40% in the brains of jimpy mice, which exhibit aberrant oligodendrocyte differentiation and cell death. Together with our characterization of vzg-1 during cortical neurogenesis, these data suggest distinct pre- and postnatal roles for LPA in the development of neurons and oligodendrocytes and implicate lysophospholipid signaling as a potential regulator of myelination.
Interactions of developing neurons with their postsynaptic targets play a significant role in neuronal differentiation. The goal of the present study was to determine if target contact affected the migration or differentiation of autonomic motor neurons (AMNs) in developing rat spinal cord. The peripheral targets of AMNs were excised microsurgically from histotypic spinal slices before the arrival of AMN axons. The migration of AMNs was assessed in DiI retrogradely labeled preparations, and the differentiation of these cells was evaluated by beta-nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate reduced diaphorase (NADPH-d) histochemistry. In target-deprived specimens, NADPH-d expression in AMNs was virtually eliminated. In addition, DiI-labeled AMNs were scattered throughout the intermediate spinal gray matter instead of being aggregated in the intermediolateral nucleus as in control slices. This observation indicated that migration of AMNs had occurred, but that it had been disorganized significantly by target removal on embryonic day 13 (E13). In sham, &quot;incision-only&quot; specimens from which peripheral target tissue was not removed, AMNs expressed NADPH-d and migrated normally, indicating that axotomy alone was not sufficient to disrupt AMN development. Previous studies have shown that target removal after the arrival of AMN axons at their postsynaptic targets on E14 has no affect on the organized migration of AMNs (Barber et al. [1993] J. Neurosci. 13:4898-4907). This observation together with the present results indicate that initial target contact is necessary for both the differentiation and directed migration of AMNs, and that this contact does not need to be sustained for these developmental events to progress normally.
Within the lumbar sympathetic ganglia of guinea pigs, the endings of different populations of neuropeptide-containing preganglionic neurons form well-defined pericellular baskets of boutons around target neurons in specific functional pathways. We have used multiple-labelling immunofluorescence, confocal microscopy, and ultrastructural immunocytochemistry to investigate synaptic organisation within pericellular baskets labelled for immunoreactivity to calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), substance P (SP), or the pro-enkephalin-derived peptide, met-enkephalin-arg-gly-leu (MERGL) in relation to their target neurons. Different functional populations of neurons, identified by their neurochemical profile, showed a significant degree of spatial clustering and predicted well the distribution of specific classes of pericellular baskets. Most of the boutons in a basket were completely surrounded by Schwann cell processes and did not form synapses. The synapses that were present were made mostly onto dendrites enclosed by the Schwann cell sheath surrounding the neuron within the basket. These dendrites probably originated from neurochemically similar neighbouring neurons. Nevertheless, some of the boutons in the baskets did form synapses with the cell body or proximal dendrites of the neuron they surrounded. Occasionally, cell bodies received a relatively high number of synapses and close appositions from boutons in a pericellular basket. Synaptic convergence of two immunohistochemically distinct types of preganglionic inputs was found in baskets of SP-immunoreactive or MERGL-immunoreactive, but not CGRP-immunoreactive, boutons. Taken together, our results show that the appearance of pericellular baskets is primarily due to the packing of the target neurons. The grouping of functionally similar classes of neurons with their pathway-specific projections of peptide-containing preganglionic neurons suggests that peptides could exert their effects in relatively well-defined zones within the ganglia.
We studied the responses of rod photoreceptors that were elicited with light flashes or sinusoidally modulated light by using intracellular recording. Dark-adapted Xenopus rod photoreceptors responded to sinusoidally modulated green lights at temporal frequencies between 1 Hz and 4 Hz. In normal Ringer's solution, 57% of the rods tested could follow red lights that were matched for equal rod absorbance to frequencies &gt;5 Hz, indicating an input from red-sensitive cones. Quinpirole (10 microM), a D2 dopamine agonist, increased rod-cone coupling, whereas spiperone (5 microM), a selective D2 antagonist, completely suppressed it. D1 dopamine ligands were without effect. Neurobiotin that was injected into single rods diffused into neighboring rods and cones in quinpirole-treated retinas but only diffused into rods in spiperone-treated retinas. A subpopulation of rods (ca. 10% total rods) received a very strong cone input, which quickened the kinetics of their responses to red flashes and greatly increased the bandpass of their responses to sinusoidally modulated light. Based on electron microscopic examination, which showed that rod-rod and cone-cone gap junctions are common, whereas rod-cone junctions are relatively rare, we postulate that cone signals enter the rod network through a minority of rods with strong cone connections, from which the cone signal is further distributed in the rod network. A semiquantitative model of coupling, based on measures of gap-junction size and distribution and estimates of their conductance and open times, provides support for this assumption. The same network would permit rod signals to reach cones.
First-episode studies of schizophrenia are being carried out in many places. However, previous work has suggested that only half of the patients with schizophrenia receive the diagnosis in the initial stages of the illness. We examined whether cases of early- and late-diagnosed schizophrenia differed with respect to key sociodemographic characteristics and indicators of service use that might bias first-episode studies. Individuals who (i) presented for the first time between 1983 and 1993 to psychiatric services in a defined urban area with a cumulative mental health case register; and (ii) received a diagnosis of schizophrenia at least once during their mental health career were identified (n = 186). This sample was divided into those who received the diagnosis of schizophrenia for the first time within the first year of service contact (early-diagnosed schizophrenia; EDS), and those who received it for the first time after the first year of service contact (late-diagnosed schizophrenia; LDS). The 10-year incidence of EDS and LDS were 10.4 and 7.0 per 100,000 person-years, respectively. EDS and LDS did not differ in their pattern of association with sex, single marital status and higher levels of neighbourhood socioeconomic deprivation. However, EDS was more incident in the higher age groups, and the level of service use was higher for EDS cases in the first years of contact with mental health services, with LDS cases gradually catching up and exceeding EDS service use later in the illness course. Although differences between EDS and LDS were few, studies of patients with schizophrenia in the 'first' episode are likely to be most representative if patients who receive the diagnosis for the first time after previous episodes of care for non-schizophrenic episodes are also included.
Oligodendrocyte differentiation is a complex process believed to be controlled by an intrinsic mechanism associated with cell-cycle arrest. Recently, the cell-cycle inhibitor protein p27 Kip1 has been proposed as a key element in causing growth arrest of oligodendrocyte precursor cells. To investigate the effects of p27 upon oligodendrocyte cell development, we have introduced the p27 cDNA in oligodendrocyte progenitor cells using an adenovirus vector. Progenitor cells normally express low levels of p27. After adenoviral infection and p27 overexpression, progenitor cells were able to undergo cell-cycle arrest, even in the presence of strong mitogens. The effects of p27 were shown to be directly upon cyclin-dependent kinase-2 (CDK2), the protein kinase complex responsible for G1/S transition, as immunodepletion of oligodendrocyte extracts of p27 protein resulted in the activation of CDK2 activity. However, cells that became growth arrested owing to infection with p27 adenovirus did not display conventional oligodendrocyte differentiation markers, such as O4 or O1. Taken together, these data provide mechanistic evidence indicating that p27 is primarily involved in oligodendroglial progenitor proliferation by inhibiting CDK2 activity and inducing oligodendrocyte cell-cycle arrest.
During development of the avian neuromuscular system, lumbar spinal motoneurons (MNs) innervate their muscle targets in the hindlimb coincident with the onset and progression of MN programmed cell death (PCD). Paralysis (activity blockade) of embryos during this period rescues large numbers of MNs from PCD. Because activity blockade also results in enhanced axonal branching and increased numbers of neuromuscular synapses, it has been postulated that following activity blockade, increased numbers of MNs can gain access to muscle-derived trophic agents that prevent PCD. An assumption of the access hypothesis of MN PCD is the presence of an activity-dependent, muscle-derived sprouting or branching agent. Several previous studies of sprouting in the rodent neuromuscular system indicate that insulin-like growth factors (IGFs) are candidates for such a sprouting factor. Accordingly, in the present study we have begun to test whether the IGFs may play a similar role in the developing avian neuromuscular system. Evidence in support of this idea includes the following: (a) IGFs promote MN survival in vivo but not in vitro; (b) neutralizing antibodies against IGFs reduce MN survival in vivo; (c) both in vitro and in vivo, IGFs increase neurite growth, branching, and synapse formation; (d) activity blockade increases the expression of IGF-1 and IGF-2 mRNA in skeletal muscles in vivo; (e) in vivo treatment of paralyzed embryos with IGF binding proteins (IGF-BPs) that interfere with the actions of endogenous IGFs reduce MN survival, axon branching, and synapse formation; (f) treatment of control embryos in vivo with IGF-BPs also reduces synapse formation; and (g) treatment with IGF-1 prior to the major period of cell death (i.e., on embryonic day 6) increases subsequent synapse formation and MN survival and potentiates the survival-promoting actions of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) administered during the subsequent 4- to 5-day period of PCD. Collectively, these data provide new evidence consistent with the role of the IGFs as activity-dependent, muscle-derived agents that play a role in regulating MN survival in the avian embryo.
Sustained (20 h) exposure to the glycine partial agonist 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC) significantly reduced N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-induced neurotoxicity in cultured spinal cord neurons when the NMDA (25 and 100 microM) was added to the cultures 30 min after removal of the ACPC (1 mM). In contrast, ACPC preexposure failed to protect against kainate-induced neuronal injury. The magnitude of neuronal protection against NMDA (100 microM) was further enhanced if the neurons pretreated with ACPC were reexposed to this drug during the NMDA challenge. In addition, the potencies of both the competitive NMDA antagonist AP5 and the noncompetitive antagonist dizocilpine to block NMDA toxicity were significantly increased following ACPC preexposure, while the potency of the competitive glycine receptor antagonist 7-chlorokynurenate (7-CK) was unchanged. Analysis of Northern blots suggest that ACPC-induced changes in NMDA receptor function were not associated with alterations in the levels of the mRNAs encoding the NMDAR-1, -2A, -2B, or -2C subunits. These results indicate that sustained exposure to ACPC modifies NMDA receptors in a manner that diminishes NMDA receptor-mediated neurotoxicity while selectively enhancing the potencies of several NMDA receptor antagonists. These effects do not appear to be related to changes in expression of specific NMDA receptor subunits, and may instead involve a post-translational modification of one or more subunit proteins.
Peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM) catalyzes the carboxyl-terminal amidation of bioactive peptides through a two-step reaction involving the monooxygenase and lyase domains. PAM undergoes endoproteolytic cleavage in neuroendocrine cells in the lyase domain. To determine which of the two possible paired basic sites is utilized, truncated PAM proteins ending at these sites were stably expressed in Chinese hamster ovary cells. While characterizing the truncation mutants, it became apparent that N-glycosylation occurred post-translationally at the single site localized near the carboxyl terminus of the lyase domain. The post-translational N-glycosylation of this site does not require the newly synthesized protein to remain tightly bound to membranes. Both malfolded, secretion incompetent proteins and fully active, secreted proteins were subject to post-translational N-glycosylation.
Single unit activity of second-order vestibular neurons was recorded in alert guinea pigs. Here, we compared the spike discharge regularity (measured by calculating the coefficient of variation (CV)) of neurons from control animals with those from animals labyrinthectomized 1 week before. The mean CV (+/-SD) were the same in both groups (0.72+/-0.43 vs. 0.70+/-0.39). Furthermore, in both groups, the CV was related to the resting rate (RR) according to the same law (CV = 4/square root of RR). Because the discharge of a neuron is more regular when it is due to a pacemaker activity than when it is due to the synaptic drive, we conclude that restoration in the firing rate after labyrinthectomy is due to increase in the synaptic drive rather than to increase in the (intrinsic) pacemaker activity.
The glutamate analogue kainic acid (KA) generates convulsions when applied systemically or directly into the brain and produces lesions comparable to those seen in Ammon's horn sclerosis, observed in many patients with temporal lobe epilepsy. The neurotoxic actions of KA in-vivo appear to be mediated by a combination of direct effects on neurons and indirect effects mediated by seizures. Understanding the contribution of both direct and indirect effects of KA towards neuronal cell death is important for elucidating excitotoxic mechanisms, which may represent a common final pathway in a variety of neurodegenerative disorders including stroke, traumatic brain injury and epilepsy. We have investigated the effects of mossy fibre innervation on the development of KA toxicity in organotypic hippocampal slice cultures in order to assess the role of this input pathway on the specific toxicity of KA toward CA3 pyramidal neurones in vitro.
In a previous study, a peripheral auditory asymmetry in right-handers was found. The activity of the uncrossed medial olivocochlear efferent pathway has been shown to be more effective in the right than in the left ear. Our aim was to compare right and left medial olivocochlear inhibition during contralateral, ipsilateral and binaural ear stimulation with a broad band noise, in order to better localize this asymmetry. Uncrossed pathway asymmetry was confirmed and the crossed pathway showed a reverse asymmetry: a left ear advantage. These results are in accordance with the assumption that the medial superior olivary complex is the locus of the asymmetry observed. As this nuclear complex receives central efferents, the peripheral auditory asymmetry may be related to the well-known cortical asymmetry.
Microstimulation was carried out at 36 sites in the dorsal striatum in lightly anesthetized rats. Only at two sites, microstimulation of 40 microA induced a considerable EMG activity in the jaw-opener (anterior digastric muscle). No activity was evoked in the jaw-closers (masseter and temporalis muscles). The effective sites were confirmed to be localized in a small central region of the striatum at a level corresponding to the caudal end of the anterior commissure. The effect was ascribed to excitation of a small cluster of striatal neurons, rather than to antidromic activation of cerebral cortical neurons through their axons within the striatum. (1) The effect was abolished after destruction of neurons in the striatal region by injecting kainic acid. (2) The effect was not influenced by ablation of the neocortex. (3) Microinjection of kainic acid into the striatal region also induced the similar muscle activity in the jaw-opener, but not in the jaw-closers.
A 27-item questionnaire that focused on general characteristics of directors of medical student education in psychiatry was sent to 132 U.S. medical schools (return rate: 64%, or 84 questionnaires). A tally of the responses revealed that the directors are relatively young, mostly male, with some appointed to their position relatively soon after resi-dency. They have been in this position for a relatively short time, and their replacement rate is fairly high. They are frequently on a clinical track, generating their income from several sources. The women did not endorse research as a major activity as often as the men. The implications of these findings and some recommendations are discussed.
The authors describe a model for teaching grant writing and other research survival skills to postdoctoral clinical-research fellows in psychiatry and for improving research mentoring. Over the past 4 years, the authors have developed a course on writing grant applications for postdoctoral clinical-research fellows, using peer-review processes modeled after a National Institutes of Health study section. At the same time, the authors have clarified expectations of mentors in ways designed to help fellows prepare &quot;K&quot; (Research Career Development) applications and to receive mentored practice in skills being taught in the course. Sixteen of 30 fellows have succeeded in receiving their first extramural support by the end of their two-year fellowship tenure or during the succeeding year. The authors conclude that by teaching grant-writing skills in a supportive peer environment, providing peer review of proposals, and sharpening expectations of mentors, it may be possible to reduce the time between the end of fellowship and the receipt of the first extramural grant.
In situ and in vitro studies suggest that activation of locally produced complement factors may act as a mediator between amyloid deposits and neurodegenerative changes seen in Alzheimer's disease (AD). C1-esterase inhibitor (C1-Inh), which regulates activation of C1 of the complement classical pathway, can be detected immunohistochemically in its inactivated form in activated astrocytes and dystrophic neurites in AD plaque areas. In this study, designed to investigate the cellular source of C1-Inh, C1-Inh was found to be secreted in a functionally active form by astrocytes cultured from postmortem human brain specimens as well as by neuroblastoma cell lines. Recombinant human interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), which stimulates C1-Inh synthesis in various cell types, several-fold stimulated C1-Inh protein secretion by cultured human astrocytes derived from different regions of the central nervous system and by one (SK-N-SH) of two neuroblastoma cell lines (SK-N-SH and IMR-32) included in this study. In contrast to IFN-gamma, other cytokines [interleukin (IL)-1beta, IL-6 and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha] that can be found in brain areas affected by AD, did not stimulate C1-Inh secretion by astrocytes or neuroblastomas in vitro. This inability to secrete C1-Inh is probably due to unresponsiveness at the transcriptional level, since C1-Inh secretion paralleled the expression of the 2.1-kb C1-Inh mRNA. In situ hybridization with a C1-Inh RNA antisense probe labeled neurons rather than astrocytes, suggesting a role for neurons as producers of complement regulatory proteins in vivo. Since IFN-gamma is apparently lacking in the brain parenchyma, and amyloid plaque-associated cytokines (IL-1beta, IL-6, TNF-alpha) do not stimulate C1-Inh expression in vitro, the nature of the stimulus responsible for neuronal C1-Inh expression in AD brains remains to be investigated.
We show the efficient transduction and expression of the lacZ gene in the skeletal muscle of adult C57BL/10ScSn mice after adenovirus-mediated gene transfer. Of the myofibers in the tibialis anterior muscle 62% were beta-galactosidase positive after injection of the lacZ gene under the control of the chicken beta-actin promoter and the cytomegalovirus enhancer. The transduced gene was preferentially expressed in type IIA and IIX fibers, which were richer in oxidative enzymes than type IIB fibers.
The occurrence of personality disorders was investigated in 36 patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder by means of the SCID Screen questionnaire. In addition, the personality dimensions were explored by means of the Temperament and Character Inventory (TCI). In total, 75% of the patients fulfilled the criteria for a personality disorder according to the SCID Screen questionnaire, mostly (55%) within cluster C. Several significant correlations were found between the separate personality disorders (PD) and subscales of the TCI, the most pronounced being between avoidant and obsessive-compulsive PD and novelty-seeking and self-directedness. Strong correlations were also found between self-directedness and paranoid and borderline PD. In multiple regressions where the presence of PD in clusters A, B and C, respectively, were used as dependent variables and where the separate subscales of the TCI were used as independent variables, the multiple R reached 0.68, 0.76 and 0.80 in clusters A, B and C, respectively. Thus 46-64% of the variance in the personality disorder clusters could be explained by the TCI subscales.
Unrecognized, untreated and undertreated depressive disorders incur inordinate human and economic costs, despite the availability of an exclusive array of clinical interventions. The aim of this study was to identify cases of masked depression in primary health care, employing a two-stage design. In the first stage, involving a study of 442 patients, the prevalence of recognized depression was 1.8%. In the second step, 62 patients from stage 1 were investigated further because of their high score on somatization tendency. In total, 41 of the 62 patients were found to have a mood disorder according to DSM-III-R, i.e. a major depressive disorder or dysthymia. Two patients were found to have already had a diagnosis of major depression assigned to them in stage 1, but they were joined by 13 more patients. A further 26 patients were found to be suffering from dysthymia, nine had adjustment disorders with depressed mood, and 12 patients showed no signs of depressed mood. For the group suffering from a current episode of major depression or dysthymia, the prevalence rate increased to 11.7% in the initial total population after stage 2. The diagnostic category with the highest rate of depressed patients was 'musculoskeletal diseases'. Patients with masked depression had higher scores for alexithymia and psychasthenia than depressed patients who were directly diagnosed.
Experiment 1 in the present study investigated the time course and dose range of gamma-hydroxybutyric acid (GHB) to reduce voluntary ethanol intake in selectively bred Sardinian ethanol-preferring (sP) rats. Ethanol (10%, v/v) and tap water were offered under the two-bottle free choice regimen with unlimited access. GHB (200, 300, and 400 mg/kg, i.p.) was administered 15 20 min prior to the start of the dark phase of the light-dark cycle. Ethanol and water intakes were recorded at different time intervals during the dark phase. GHB significantly reduced ethanol intake at doses of 300 and 400 mg/kg; statistical significance occurred only at the 15-min and 30-min observation times. The GHB dose of 300 mg/kg was devoid of any sedative effect, as demonstrated in Experiment 2 by the lack of any impairment of spontaneous locomotor activity. Finally, this dose of GHB was also found to exert a robust anxiolytic effect in sP rats tested on the elevated plus maze (Experiment 3). Collectively, the results of the present study demonstrate that a non-sedative and anxiolytic dose of GHB effectively reduced voluntary ethanol intake in sP rats. The rapid onset of the reducing effect of GHB on ethanol intake, as well as its anxiolytic effect, are discussed in terms of adding further support to the hypothesis that GHB may control alcohol craving and consumption in humans by substituting for ethanol's reinforcing effects.
Among the neuropathological effects of prenatal exposure to ethanol is the disruption of neuromorphogenesis. The effects of ethanol on early events in the development of axons and dendrites were studied using cultured embryonic rat hippocampal neurons, which develop in vitro in a stereotypical sequence of events that mimics their development in vivo. During the first 24 hr in culture, hippocampal neurons attach to the substrate and develop into one of three stages identified by phase-contrast microscopy: (i) neurons having lamellipodia and no processes (stage 1); (ii) neurons developing minor processes (&lt;40 microm) that subsequently become the cell's axon or dendrites (stage 2); or (iii) polarized neurons with at least one axon (process with length &gt; or =40 microm) (stage 3). Exposure to ethanol (300 mg/dl or 800 mg/dl) in the culture medium resulted in an increase in both the number of minor processes per neuron and the number of stage 3 neurons having more than the typical single axon. In addition, ethanol exposure significantly altered the proportion of neurons in the three early stages of development at 18 to 24 hr in vitro, without affecting overall neuron survival. With ethanol, there was a smaller proportion of neurons in the first stage of development, and a greater proportion of polarized stage 3 neurons. These findings suggest that ethanol alters the normal establishment of neuronal polarity, disrupting mechanisms that ensure the formation of the appropriate number of processes and that regulate the timing of process outgrowth.
The effects of prenatal ethanol exposure on the NMDAR1 protein expression (postnatal days 1 and 7) and on the developmental profile of the NMDAR2A and NMDAR2B subunits in rat forebrain and hippocampus were investigated. Forebrain and hippocampal membrane proteins were isolated from pups of various ages (postnatal days 1 to 21) from prenatally ethanol exposed, pair-fed and ad libitum control groups. A semiquantitative immunoblot procedure was used with antibodies raised against the NMDAR1, NMDAR2A, and the NMDAR2B subunits to assess the NMDA subunit protein expression in the samples. NMDAR1 protein expression was unaffected by prenatal ethanol exposure at postnatal day 1 or 7 in both the forebrain and hippocampus. NMDAR2A protein expression levels rose rapidly in both forebrain and hippocampus during the time frame of study. Prenatal ethanol exposure caused a significant reduction in protein expression levels of the NMDAR2A in forebrain through postnatal day 14. NMDAR2B protein expression levels were high throughout the study in both forebrain and hippocampus. Prenatal ethanol exposure significantly reduced protein expression of the NMDAR2B in the forebrain (through postnatal day 14) and hippocampus (up to day 7). The results suggest that there may be a link between the depressed expression of the NMDAR2 subunits and the neurodevelopmental disorders associated with fetal ethanol exposure.
Genetic differences in sensitivity to ethanol's aversive effects may play an important role in the development of alcohol-seeking behavior and alcoholism. The present study examined the development of ethanol-induced conditioned taste aversion in 20 BXD/Ty recombinant inbred strains of mice and their progenitor inbred strains, C57BL/6J (B6) and DBA/2J (D2). Adult male mice were given 1-hr access to a saccharin-flavored solution every 48 hr for 12 days. After all but the first and last saccharin access periods, they received ethanol injections (0, 2, or 4 g/kg, i.p.). Separate groups of unpaired control mice received 4 g/kg of ethanol 1 hr after water access. Saline control mice were also used for examining preference across a wide range of saccharin concentrations (0.019 to 4.864% w/v). As expected, saccharin consumption during taste conditioning declined over conditioning trials in a dose-dependent manner, indicating development of ethanol-induced conditioned taste aversion. Correlational analyses using strain means from recently published papers indicated no significant genetic correlation between taste conditioning and two phenotypes thought to reflect ethanol reinforcement or reward (ethanol drinking, conditioned place preference). However, there were significant genetic correlations between taste conditioning at the high dose and sensitivity to ethanol-induced hypothermia, rotarod ataxia, and acute withdrawal. Quantitative trait locus (QTL) analyses of strain means indicated that taste aversion was associated (p &lt; 0.01) with genetic markers on nine chromosomes (1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 9, 11, and 17). These QTLs were located near several candidate genes, including genes encoding several different acetylcholine receptor subunits, the delta opioid receptor, and two serotonin receptors (1B and 1D). QTLs for saccharin preference were located on several of the same chromosomes (2, 3, 4, 6, and 11). Two of these saccharin QTLs overlap candidate genes influencing sensitivity to sweet or bitter taste stimuli. In general, these findings support the conclusion that multiple genes influence ethanol-induced conditioned taste aversion. Some of these genes appear to influence taste sensitivity, whereas others appear to mediate sensitivity to aversive pharmacological effects of ethanol.
The acute effect of opioid antagonists on volitional ethanol intake was studied in unselected Sprague-Dawley rats using a two-bottle, free-choice model. The total daily intake of ethanol during saline treatment was 1.79 +/- 0.4 g/kg/day (n = 136). The rats were deprived of fluids for the last 4 hr of the light period. Saline or drug was given intraperitoneally 20 to 30 min before the onset of dark, and the ethanol and water intakes were measured during the following hour. The ethanol intake during this hour was 0.75 +/- 0.06 g/kg (n = 136). Naltrexone significantly reduced ethanol intake. There was also a significant reduction in ethanol intake following administration of ICI-174,864. Naloxonazine and naloxone methiodide lacked effect. None of the treatments had any effect on the water or food intake. The results suggest that central delta-opioid receptors modulate volitional ethanol intake in the rat.
Meaning has the power to drastically modify our experience of pain. It also can dramatically affect our health, both positively and negatively--a phenomenon I explored previously in this column. Spiritual meanings may be the most powerful forms of meaning, because they can provoke healing responses that appear miraculous, such as in DCBD. DCBD bridges medicine, neuroscience, religion, and anthropology. Consequently, it is regarded as too sprawling by scientists who prefer to work in a confined, limited area. DCBD also carries the stigma of being &quot;weird&quot; and &quot;foreign.&quot; So it isn't surprising that researchers have given it a wide berth over the years. At long last, however, this attitude is changing, and a few brave investigators are coming forward. In my imagination I see DCBD as a territory marked by bold signs: ATTENTION PROSPECTIVE NOBLE PRIZE WINNERS: LOOK HERE! Is anybody out there up to the challenge?
The effect of long-term treatment with tacrine (tetrahydroaminoacridine) was studied in three Alzheimer patients (aged 57, 64, and 68 years) with mild dementia. All three patients had a Mini-Mental State Examination score of 24/30 and carried at least one apolipoprotein E (ApoE) epsilon4 allele. Tacrine was given in doses between 80 and to 160 mg daily for 13-31 months. A lower tacrine concentration was observed generally in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) compared with plasma. The acetylcholinesterase activity in CSF tended to be increased following longer periods of tacrine treatment, whereas the butyrylcholinesterase activity was decreased. The three patients repeatedly underwent positron emission tomography investigation of cerebral blood flow, nicotinic receptors, cerebral glucose metabolism, and electroencephalogram (EEG) and cognitive tests. Positive influences on these parameters were observed following both short-term and long-term treatment with tacrine. Improvement of nicotinic receptors (measured as 11C-nicotine binding), cerebral blood flow, EEG, and some cognitive tests (trail making test, block design test) occurred earlier after initiation of tacrine treatment compared with the glucose metabolism, which was increased after several months of tacrine treatment. An improvement in attention (trail making test) was observed following tacrine as sign for frontal lobe activation (EEG). The functional effects of tacrine in Alzheimer patients appeared to be related to both dose and length of cholinesterase inhibitor treatment.
Whereas early-onset Alzheimer disease (AD; usually onset at age &lt; 50 years) has been defined with genetic mutation on chromosomes 1, 14, and 21, the degree of familial contribution to late-onset AD is unclear. Further, it is uncertain if subgroups of late-onset AD exist. To examine the influence of familial factors as a function of age in late-onset AD we investigated lifetime risks and age-specific hazard rates of AD-like illness among late-onset AD probands' and controls' first-degree relatives, using questionnaires and medical records. As part of a longitudinal study on aging and AD, we studied 78 AD probands with age of onset &gt; or =50 years (28 &quot;definite&quot; and 50 &quot;probable&quot; AD according to NINCDS/ADRDA criteria) and 101 healthy old controls seen since 1981. Both probands and controls were screened rigorously with medical tests and brain imaging and seen regularly until autopsy. Multiple informants and medical records were used for first-degree relatives. Among first-degree relatives, 49 secondary cases of AD-like illness were found for the AD probands' relatives (391 relatives 40 years old or older) compared with 20 cases among controls' relatives (456 relatives 40 years old or older). Relatives of AD probands had a significantly increased lifetime risk of AD-like illness of 52.8+/-11.4% by age 94 years compared with a lifetime risk in relatives of controls of 22.1+/-5.8% by age 90 years. Age-specific hazard rates in relatives of AD probands increased until the 75-79-year age interval and then decreased; in contrast the age-specific hazard rates increased in relatives of controls after the 80-84-year age interval. To determine if a dividing line exist among late-onset AD, several cutoff ages were used in our study to compare cumulative risk curves of AD-like illness between relatives of late-onset probands and relatives of late-late-onset probands. Differences in the pattern of cumulative incidence of AD in relatives showed that 67-71 years is the range for a dividing line between late- and late-late-onset AD. Age-specific hazard rates of AD in relatives supported a difference between late- and late-late-onset. Whereas these rates increased until the 75-79-year age interval and then decreased in late-onset AD, the rates began increasing after the 65-69-year age interval and through the oldest age interval in both late-late-onset AD and control groups. Our results support the concept that familial factors exist in late-onset AD and that different familial factors may exist in late-onset AD subgroups.
We examined the relation of age at onset and visuocognitive disturbances in Alzheimer disease (AD) using a large sample of patients, quantitative neuropsychological measures, and multivariate statistics controlling for gender, education, stage of dementia, and disease duration. Significant positive coefficients were obtained with forward and backward digit and visual spans, visual counting, copying Rey complex figure, and block design task. The results indicated that patients with early-onset AD performed worse than late-onset AD patients on these tasks. There was no significant effect of age at onset on identification of overlapping figures, visual form discrimination, or Raven's colored progressive matrices. These findings confirm the greater attentional and visuospatial impairments in early onset patients when these confounding factors were controlled for, although no significant effect of age at onset in visuoperceptual function was observed.

Although considerable evidence suggests that the vestibular system regulates sympathetic outflow during movement and changes in posture, little is known about relative vestibular influences on activity of different sympathetic nerves and sympathetic efferents with different functions. In the present study, we demonstrated that electrical stimulation of the vestibular nerve in the cat elicited responses in sympathetic nerves innervating the head and abdominal viscera. This observation suggests that activity of sympathetic efferents innervating multiple body regions is affected by vestibular signals. These responses were attenuated by &gt;80% when blood pressure was increased to &gt;160 mmHg. Because raising blood pressure decreases the responsiveness of vasoconstrictor fibers, the simplest explanation for these data is that the vestibular system provides particularly strong inputs to components of the sympathetic nervous system that regulate peripheral vascular resistance. Furthermore, the relative magnitude of vestibulosympathetic reflexes was over four times larger in one sympathetic nerve composed mainly of vasoconstrictor efferents (renal nerve) than another nerve (external carotid nerve) containing similar types of fibers. Collectively, these data indicate that the vestibular system has selective influences on sympathetic outflow to particular tissues and body regions.
We have previously hypothesized that corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) is involved in the regulation of physiological waking. To further elucidate this role for CRH, we administered intracerebroventricularly into rats two specific CRH-receptor antagonists, alpha-helical CRH-(9-41) (alpha-hCRH) or astressin, and determined changes in electroencephalogram-defined waking and sleep. Our results indicate that both of these receptor antagonists reduce the amount of time spent awake in a dose-related manner when administered before the dark period of the light-dark cycle. However, the time courses for these effects differ between antagonists; effective doses of alpha-hCRH reduce waking during the first 2 h postinjection, whereas effective doses of astressin reduce waking during postinjection hours 7-12. In contrast to dark-onset administrations, the amount of waking is not altered by either CRH-receptor antagonist when administered before the light period. These results support our hypothesis that CRH contributes to the regulation of physiological waking, since interfering with the binding of CRH to its receptor reduces spontaneous waking.
My tenure at NIMH was an exhilarating, heady time of great satisfaction and achievement for all of us at the Institute. I have great affection and loyalty for NIMH, but my fondest memories are of the individuals who led and staffed the Institute's programs while I was there. One of the most gratifying aspects of my tenure was the opportunity to recruit and appoint people to new responsibilities and to interact with and support them as they grew into and beyond their positions of leadership within NIMH. When I left NIMH, I felt that the Institute's managers and staff were unparalleled in their creativity, competence, commitment, loyalty, and sheer hard work on behalf of the Institute and our field. My thanks and deep gratitude genuinely go out to the entire staff at NIMH during my tenure. However, a special debt of gratitude is owed to a group of colleagues and friends who, at my request, carried very heavy responsibilities and excelled in meeting them: Dr. Alan Leshner (Deputy Director of NIMH, now Director of NIDA); Dr. Stephen Koslow, Dr. Stephen Paul, Dr. Jack &quot;Jay&quot; Burke, Dr. David Segal, Dr. Ira Glick, Dr. Ellen Stover, Dr. Irene Levine, Dr. Daryl Kirsch, Dr. Rex Cowdry, Dr. Sam Keith, Dr. Delores Paron, Leroy Goldman, Richard Pine, William Fitzsimmons, Gordon Seidenberg, Lewis Steinberg, Gemma Weiblinger, George Halter, and my invaluable assistant, Margaret Shanley.



The aminopyridines block several types of potassium (K+) channels and exert a direct inotropic effect on skeletal muscle by prolonging the duration of the action potential. Aging influences skeletal muscle Cl- channels and their regulation, and affects both resting whole-cell K+ conductance and adenosine triphosphate (ATP)-sensitive K+ channels, although in opposite directions. The present study tested the hypothesis that aging affects diaphragm-muscle K+ channels responsible for repolarization of the action potential and force production. Diaphragms of young adult (age 3 to 4 mo) and old (age 20 to 21 mo) male Fischer 344 rats was studied in vitro at 37 degrees C. The K+-channel blocker 3,4-diaminopyridine (DAP, 0.3 mM) did not alter resting membrane potential or action-potential height, overshoot, or rate of depolarization of either young-adult or old muscle. However, DAP slowed the rate of repolarization of the action potential and increased the action-potential area in young-adult and old muscle; the time for the action potential to repolarize by 80% increased from 0.59 +/- 0.02 ms (mean +/- SE) to 3.37 +/- 0.68 ms (p &lt; 0.05) in young-adult muscle and from 0.87 +/- 0.06 ms to 2.52 +/- 0.54 ms (p &lt; 0.05) in old muscle, whereas the action-potential area increased from 56 +/- 3 mVms to 193 +/- 34 mVms (p &lt; 0.05) in young-adult muscle and from 72 +/- 5 mVms to 134 +/- 20 mVms (p &lt; 0. 05) in old muscle. The action-potential area was not different in young-adult and old diaphragm without DAP, but was significantly larger in young-adult than in old diaphragm with DAP (p &lt; 0.05). The functional consequence was that DAP increased diaphragm isometric twitch force by 181 +/- 12% (p &lt; 0.05) in young-adult muscle and by 144 +/- 24% (p &lt; 0.05) in old muscle; the increase was significantly greater in young-adult than in old muscle (p &lt; 0.05). These data suggest an aging-associated reduction in, or reduced DAP sensitivity of, diaphragm K+ conductance during action potentials, which most likely reflects aging-associated alterations in delayed-rectifier K+ conductance. Although the inotropic effect of DAP was greater for young-adult than for old diaphragm muscle, the difference was sufficiently modest to show that DAP has substantial inotropic effects in old muscle.
Few data exist concerning expiratory muscle function in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). We studied 26 patients with ALS (16 with respiratory symptoms and 10 without) and measured the maximal static expiratory mouth pressure (MEP), the gastric pressure during a maximal cough (Cough Pga), and the gastric pressure after magnetic stimulation of the lower thoracic nerve roots (Tw Pga). These measurements were related to the ability to generate transient supramaximal flow during a cough (cough spikes), to arterialized capillary blood gases, and to inspiratory muscle strength. Vocal cord motion was examined endoscopically in 11 of the 16 symptomatic patients. Expiratory muscle weakness was related to inability to generate cough spikes with a threshold effect such that spikes were absent for Cough Pga &lt; 50 cm H2O (p = 0.009) or Tw Pga &lt; 7 cm H2O (p = 0.006) and was usually associated with inspiratory muscle weakness. However, in multivariate analysis, PaCO2 was only significantly associated with the maximal sniff esophageal pressure (p = 0.02). Symptomatic patients had significantly lower inspiratory muscle strength, whereas, of the expiratory muscle tests, only Tw Pga was significantly lower (p = 0.0009) in symptomatic patients. Abnormal vocal cord motion was observed in two of the 11 patients examined. We conclude that abdominal muscle weakness in ALS, when substantial, results in an inability to generate transient supramaximal flow during a cough. However, the primary determinant of both ventilatory failure and respiratory symptoms seems to be inspiratory muscle weakness.
Loss of heterozygosity (LOH) analysis in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (BCLL) has indicated that a frequent genetic event is loss of alleles from an approximately 500 kb region in 13q14.3, distal to the retinoblastoma gene. We have used DNA markers from this region to isolate and characterize a series of bacterial artificial chromosomes (BACs) which span the region between markers D13S319 and D13S25, which represents the common region of LOH. This entire region appears to be contained within only two minimally overlapping BACs, representing a maximum distance of approximately 350 kb. This BAC contig has been used to position known STS, EST and gene markers within the region. We have also used a modified differential display/RNA fingerprinting procedure designed to isolated transcribed sequences from YACs to isolate two transcribed units from the region which have also been positioned within the contig. The construction of a BAC contig with minimal redundancy provides the ideal resources from which to begin to identify candidate genes related to BCLL.
Postmortem studies have associated Alzheimer's disease (AD) with regionally increased oxidative damage to brain. Lacking, however, is a specific marker of oxidative damage to brain that may be measured during life. We tested the hypothesis that cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) concentrations of F2-isoprostanes (F2-IsoPs), stable products of arachidonate peroxidation, are increased in CSF of AD patients. CSF from lateral ventricles (VF) was analyzed from 11 AD patients and 11 control subjects who participated in a rapid autopsy program. VF F2-IsoP concentrations were significantly elevated in AD patients compared with control subjects (72 +/- 7 vs 46 +/- 4 pg/ml) and were significantly linearly correlated with brain weight (-0.3 pg/ml/g, r2 = 0.32). These results suggest that quantification of CSF F2-IsoP concentrations may provide a useful biomarker of central nervous system oxidative damage in AD.
Mitochondria play a critical role in cellular energy metabolism. The identification of a respiratory chain defect in Parkinson's disease (PD) provides not only a direct link with toxin models of parkinsonism but also insight into the mechanisms involved in etiology and pathogenesis. The presence of the complex I deficiency in PD substantia nigra and platelets suggests the involvement of a systemic cause. Genomic transplantation studies have been undertaken that involve the transfer to a novel nuclear background of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) from PD patients with a complex I defect, followed by both mixed and clonal expansion of the resulting cybrids. The mixed cybrids with the PD mtDNA expressed the complex I defect present in the original PD donor platelets. Clonal expansion of one such mixed cybrid culture produced a spectrum of clones with complex I and complex IV activities, ranging from severe deficiency to normal range, a pattern typical of a heteroplasmic mtDNA mutation. Histochemical, immunohistochemical, and functional assessments of delta psi(m) all showed a pattern in the PD clones typical of that produced by a mtDNA mutation. Patients with focal dystonia and a platelet complex I defect were used as disease controls for the cybrid studies. The mitochondrial abnormality was eradicated by transfer of dystonia mtDNA to a control nuclear background in both mixed and clonal cybrids, with no evidence of clonal heterogeneity. These results help to validate our findings in the PD patients and suggest that the complex I deficiency in dystonia is not due to an abnormality of mtDNA. We hypothesize that the mtDNA defect alone may be the cause of PD in a proportion of patients and may contribute to pathogenesis in others. Identification of the mtDNA genotype responsible for PD may allow the testing of neuroprotective strategies in appropriate patients.

Analysis of performance on 22 neuropsychological tests in 58 patients with presumed dementia of the Alzheimer type and 58 with presumed multi-infarct dementia, and in subgroups reassessed 10 months later, provided useful indications of relative levels of success of various types of test as indices of neuropsychological functioning and decline over time in dementia. Short versions of the Token test were found to be amongst the best indices, and either can be recommended for inclusion in collections of tests used for clinical or research purposes in studies of dementia.


The cells of origin of peripheral nerves that supply the temporomandibular joint were investigated by examining the centripetal transport of wheat germ agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase (WGA-HRP). Following WGA-HRP injection into the temporomandibular joint capsule of the cat, a large number of labelled neurones were observed in the trigeminal and superior cervical ganglia ipsilateral to the injection site, while no labelled neurones were detected in the cervical dorsal-root ganglia. Only one labelled neurone was seen in the stellate ganglion. Labelled neurones were primarily located in the posterolateral and dorsal regions of the trigeminal ganglion, but their distribution in the superior cervical ganglion was not localized to specific regions. The labelled neurones in the trigeminal ganglion were significantly larger than those in the superior cervical ganglion but the sizes of smaller neurones overlapped, suggesting that trigeminal ganglion neurones send both myelinated and unmyelinated fibres to the temporomandibular joint. The innervation of the temporomandibular joint by somatosensory and sympathetic fibres suggests that sympathetic nerves could be responsible for allodynia or neuropathic pain caused by temporomandibular disorders.

High Alcohol Withdrawal (HAW) and Low Alcohol Withdrawal (LAW) mice were selectively bred from a foundation population of C57BL6/J (B6) x DBA/2J (D2) F2 intercross progeny for display of intense or mild handling-induced withdrawal convulsions, respectively, following a single injection of a hypnotic dose of ethanol (alcohol; 4 g/kg). The HAW line had significantly greater alcohol withdrawal severity scores compared to the LAW line after only a single generation of selection; the magnitude of the line difference was 8-fold by the fourth selected generation. We tested these lines for severity of withdrawal convulsions following the benzodiazepine, diazepam; the gaseous anesthetic, nitrous oxide; the imidazopyridine, zolpidem and the barbiturate, pentobarbital. In all cases, HAW mice had significantly greater withdrawal severity than mice of the LAW line. These results indicate that some genes influencing withdrawal convulsion severity following ethanol also affect withdrawal from other CNS depressants. D2 mice are more sensitive to a variety of convulsants than B6 mice (and have more severe withdrawal convulsions). We, therefore, tested separate groups of mice of both selectively bred lines for threshold sensitivity to pentylenetetrazol (PTZ), N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and kainic acid (KA). No line differences were detected. These results indicate that genes influencing severity of withdrawal from several depressant drugs are largely different from those affecting susceptibility to GABAergic or glutamatergic convulsants.
The mammalian hippocampus has been the focus of several neurobiology studies because of its important behavioral function and because long-term potentiation (LTP) is a prominent feature of this brain region. Converging evidence suggests that hippocampal function is associated with learning multiple relationships of environmental cues. In this paper a novel behavioral test procedure is introduced, a modified T-maze continuous alternation task (T-CAT), that may serve as a simple, automatable, and quick test of hippocampal function in addition to the frequently applied water maze and fear conditioning paradigms. A comparison is made between mice (strain C57BL/6) with ibotenic acid lesioned or vehicle injected hippocampus, two transgenic strains (on CD1 background) overexpressing a calcium binding protein, S100beta, and inbred (C57BL/6, DBA/2, 129/SV and 129/SVEV) and outbred (CD1) strains of mice. This study shows that hippocampal lesioning led to a significant impairment in T-CAT. Furthermore, overexpression of S100beta, which impairs hippocampal LTP, also led to an impairment demonstrating that T-CAT is sensitive to detect hippocampal dysfunction. Analysis of the mouse strains revealed that C57BL/6 and CD1 mice performed well in T-CAT, whereas 129/SV, 129/SVEV and DBA/2 were significantly impaired, a finding that underscores the importance of strain differences in pharmacological or single gene manipulation studies of hippocampal function in mice.
The metabolism of drugs and other xenobiotics in situ in the brain has far-reaching implications in the pharmacological and pharmacodynamic effects of drugs acting on the CNS, particularly with respect to psychoactive drugs wherein a wide range of therapeutic response is typically seen in the patient population. An entirely functional cytochrome P450 (P450) monooxygenase system is known to exist in the rodent and human brain, wherein it is preferentially localized in the neuronal cells, which are the sites of action of psychoactive drugs. Further, bioactivation of xenobiotics, in situ, in the CNS would result in the formation of reactive, toxic metabolites in the neuronal cells that have limited regenerative capability. The presence of P450 enzymes in selective cell populations within distinctive regions of the brain that are affected in certain neurodegenerative disorders implies the potential role of P450-mediated bioactivation as a causative factor in the etiopathogenesis of these diseases. The characterization of brain-specific P450s and their regulation and localization within the CNS assume importance for understanding the potential role of these enzymes in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders and psychopharmacological modulation of drugs acting on the CNS.

This report evaluates the performance of a biologically motivated neural network model of the primate superior colliculus (SC). Consistent with known anatomy and physiology, its major features include excitatory connections between its output elements, nigral gating mechanisms, and an eye displacement feedback of reticular origin to recalculate the metrics of saccades to memorized targets in retinotopic coordinates. Despite the fact that it makes no use of eye position or eye velocity information, the model can account for the accuracy of saccades in double step stimulation experiments. Further, the model accounts for the effects of focal SC lesions. Finally, it accounts for the properties of saccades evoked in response to the electrical stimulation of the SC. These include the approximate size constancy of evoked saccades despite increases of stimulus intensity, the fact that the size of evoked saccades depends on the time that has elapsed from a previous saccade, the fact that staircases of saccades are evoked in response to prolonged stimuli, and the fact that the size of saccades evoked in response to the simultaneous stimulation of two SC sites is the average of the saccades that are evoked when the two sites are separately stimulated.
The response of a pacemaker neuron model to a train of transient inhibitory impulsive perturbations is examined. The model reproduces the heterogeneous discharge forms and abrupt switchings displayed by the crayfish slowly adapting stretch receptor organ (Segundo et al., 1994, Neuroscience 62(2), pp. 459-480). The non-monotonous aspect of the instantaneous firing rate of the model reflects the fact that in some regimes input and output rates are both increasing, despite the inhibitory effect of the former. We determine how such paradoxical acceleration takes place by analyzing the response of the model using its phase transition curve. We show that paradoxical acceleration results from the fact that the phase transition curve exhibits a large slowly increasing, almost linear section similar to that of living preparations.
The modular organization of neocortex has been speculated to have a role in the operation of memory retrieval. By introducing two modifications in the model considered by O'Kane and Treves (1992a, J. Phys. A: Math. Gen.), we have been able to increase the storage load limit and to destabilize the memory-glass states that marred the memory operation of the original model. The two modifications, a sparse rather than complete activation of cortical modules and a correlation between the patterns of activation and the underlying connectivity, are both consistent with available evidence.
In the frog, unitary electrophysiological recordings have been extensively used to investigate odor processing along the olfactory pathways. By comparing spontaneous and odor-evoked activities of neuroreceptor, mitral and cortical cells, we have collected fundamental data relating to coding abilities of the three olfactory levels, the olfactory mucosa, the bulb and the cortex. Based on a synthesis of our experimental data related to GABAergic and dopaminergic involvement in the olfactory bulb, this paper aims to match this information with computational data and to discuss some questions on bulbar processing. This paper is also devoted to further analyze original results on coding properties of two functionally evidenced neuron subpopulations in the olfactory cortex. Thus, the assumption according to which some cortical neurons may work as temporal integrators while others as coincidence detectors is presented. Moreover, the pertinence that the neural code may be carried by a single spike with varying latency was demonstrated.
A report by the Royal College of Psychiatrists recommended avoiding atropine premedication during electroconvulsive therapy (ECT). We have examined the cardiovascular effects of ECT with or without atropine premedication. Consenting patients (n = 30) were allocated randomly before their third ECT session to receive atropine or no premedication. The rate pressure product (RPP) was recorded before anaesthesia, before ECT stimulus and at 1-min intervals thereafter for 5 min. Patients who did not receive atropine had significantly lower RPP values after all stimulus recordings. Administration of atropine or not explained 32% of the variance of summated RPP after the stimulus. There was no clinically significant bradyarrhythmia in those who did not receive atropine. Our findings support the recommendation of the Royal College of Psychiatrists. The study suggests that when threshold determination is not needed, avoiding atropine effectively contains potentially harmful cardiovascular responses.
1. Human 5-HT1B (h5-HT1B) and human 5-HT1D (h5-HT1D) receptors show remarkably similar pharmacology with few compounds discriminating the receptors. We report here on a novel compound, SB-224289 (1'-Methyl-5-[[2'-methyl-4'-(5-methyl- 1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl)biphenyl-4-yl]carbonyl]-2,3,6,7-tetrahydro spiro [furo [2,3-f]indole-3,4'-piperidine] oxalate), which has high affinity for h5-HT1B receptors (pK1=8.16+/-0.06) and displays over 75 fold selectivity for the h5-HT1B receptor over all other 5-HT receptors including the h5-HT1D receptor and all other receptors tested thus far. 2. Functional activity of SB-224289 was measured in a [15S]GTPgammaS binding assay on recombinant h5-HT1B and h5-HT1D receptors expressed in Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cells. SB-224289 displayed negative intrinsic activity at both receptors with higher potency at h5-HT1B receptors. SB-224289 caused a rightward shift of agonist concentration response curves consistent with competitive antagonism and generated affinities comparable with those obtained from competition radioligand receptor binding studies. 3. SB-224289 potentiated [3H]5-HT release from electrically stimulated guinea-pig cerebral cortical slices to the same extent as as the non-selective 5-HT1 antagonist methiothepin. SB-224289 also fully reversed the inhibitory effect of exogenously superfused 5-HT on electrically stimulated release. 4. Using SB-224289 as a tool compound, we confirm that in guinea-pig cerebral cortex the terminal 5-HT autoreceptor is of the 5-HT1B subtype.
1. Vasoconstrictor responses to 5-HT, 5-carboxamidotryptamine (5-CT, 5-HT1 receptor agonist), alpha-methyl-5-HT (5-HT2 receptor agonist) and sumatriptan (5-HT1D/1B receptor agonist) were studied in fetal, 0-24 h, 4 day, 7 day and adult rabbit pulmonary resistance arteries (PRAs), alone and in the presence of the NO synthase inhibitor Nomega-nitro-L-arginine methylester (L-NAME). The effect of the selective 5-HT receptor antagonists ketanserin (5-HT2A receptor) and GR55562 (5-HT1B/1D receptor) on vasoconstrictor responses to 5-HT were studied in the presence of L-NAME. Vasodilator responses to 5-CT were also studied in pre-contracted PRAs. 3. 5-HT and alpha-methyl-5-HT were equipotent in causing contraction in the PRAs at each age (e.g. pEC50s for 5-HT and alpha-methyl-5-HT were 6.74+/-0.13 and 6.63+/-0.22 respectively in adult vessels). In the perinatal PRAs, sumatriptan and 5-CT produced negligible contractions, but in adult PRAs, 5-CT and sumatriptan were potent agonists with pEC50s of 6.05+/-0.3 and 5.70+/-0.20 respectively. 4. L-NAME markedly increased the maximum response to 5-HT in the 0-24 h, 4 day and 7 day vessels and increased 5-HT potency in the 4-, 7-day-old and adult rabbit vessels. 5. In perinatal vessels, responses to 5-HT, with L-NAME present, were antagonized by ketanserin (30 nM and 0.1 microM) but not GR55562 (1 microM). A small ketanserin-resistant, GR55562-sensitive component was observed at 0-24 h. In adult vessels, both ketanserin and GR55562 inhibited 5-HT-induced responses. 7. Vasodilator responses to 5-CT were observed in pre-contracted PRAs from 4- and 7-day-old rabbits but not in the fetus, 0-24 h old or adult rabbit vessels. At 4 days the vasodilator response was inhibited both by L-NAME and GR55562. At 7 days the response was only partly blocked by L-NAME and resistant to GR55562. The L-NAME resistant component was antagonized by the 5-HT7 receptor antagonist spiperone (1 microM). 8. The results suggest that 5-HT2A-receptors mediate vasoconstriction in perinatal vessels whilst the 5-HT1D or 5-HT1B receptor contributes in adult rabbit vessels. The 5-HT1D or 5-HT1B receptor mediates NO-dependent vasodilation in vessels from rabbits at 4 days of age whilst 5-HT7 receptors mediate NO-independent vasodilation by 7 days.
