Characteristics of in situ substance P release from the lumbar dorsal horn were investigated in decerebrated rabbits. Noxious mechanical stimuli produced by pinching the skin of a hind leg ipsilateral to the perfusion site remarkably and significantly increased the release of immunoreactive substance P, which was identified as substance P itself, using separation with high-performance liquid chromatography and radioimmunoassay. The noxious pinch did not affect the release of immunoreactive substance P, when applied to the contralateral hind leg. Both the basal and pinch-evoked release of immunoreactive substance P were largest in the dorsolateral part of the dorsal horn. The pinch-evoked release of immunoreactive substance P was abolished when the dorsal horn was perfused with a Ca2+-free medium containing 7 mM Mg2+ or with a medium with 10 microM tetrodotoxin added. The evoked release of immunoreactive substance P was also abolished following pretreatment of a stimulated region with the local anesthetic dibucaine, a procedure which inhibited the pinch-evoked aversive behavior in freely-moving rabbits. Among a variety of natural stimuli applied to the hind leg, noxious pinch and a subcutaneous injection of formaldehyde solution significantly evoked the release of immunoreactive substance P from the dorsal horn. The most intense heat or scalding stimulation increased the immunoreactive substance P release in two out of five experiments. However, other natural stimuli such as ice-cold, warm, noxious heat and innocuous mechanical stimuli produced no apparent changes in the release of immunoreactive substance P. These results suggest that among the noxious stimuli, only mechanical and inflammatory but not thermal stimuli lead to a release of substance P from the primary afferent terminals in the dorsal horn. The present findings suggest that, at least in rabbits, substance P-containing primary afferents have high-threshold mechanoreceptors. Substance P may participate in the transmission of information related to noxious mechanical and inflammatory stimulation from the periphery to the dorsal horn.
The dihydropyridine, Bay K 8644, was applied in vitro to mouse phrenic nerve-diaphragm muscle preparations. The drug increased both spontaneous and evoked release of acetylcholine from the motor nerve terminal in a concentration- and time-dependent manner. The rise in miniature endplate potential frequency, however, was the result of an increased intraterminal mobilization of free calcium, rather than well-established activation of voltage-dependent calcium channels. This view is supported by the following observations: (1) an increase in frequency was apparent in Ca2+-free medium; (2) Bay K 8644 is known to require a moderate depolarization to affect Ca2+ channels, but no membrane depolarization was detected; and (3) exposure to low Ca2+ and high Mg2+ medium did not diminish the effect on miniature endplate potential frequency. In a medium containing low Ca2+ and high Mg2+, Bay K 8644 increased quantal content of the evoked endplate potentials to a greater degree and with a faster time course than the frequency of miniature endplate potentials. This enhancement in evoked release did not appear to be caused solely by an increase in cytoplasmic Ca2+, but rather reflected at least in part the Bay K 8644-induced activation of voltage-gated Ca2+ channels, perhaps L-type, at the presynaptic nerve terminal. Thus, we propose that Bay K 8644 exerts dual effects on the motor nerve endings, characterized by a primary action on the presynaptic Ca2+ channels and a secondary action associated with the elevation of intracellular Ca2+ concentration.
The cellular components of striatal grafts into the host striatum of rats were studied using [3H]thymidine autoradiography, histochemistry, immunocytochemistry and Golgi-staining. Autoradiography revealed that a layer of glial cells, somas smaller than 8 microns in diameter, stained positive with glial fibrillary acidic protein, and demarcating transplant from host, is derived mainly from the donor. Golgi studies revealed that many neuronal fibers fail to cross the glial layer to reach the host striatum. Migration of transplanted striatal cells into the host milieu was evident. The density of migrated cells decreased linearly as a function of distance from the transplant. Most of the far-migrated cells were glial cells. Neuronal migration was limited. In the transplant, donor cells marked by [3H]thymidine constituted at least 70% of the population. Neurons which stained positively for GABA, substance P, and acetylcholinesterase were identified in the transplant. Fibers of two of these three neuronal types, substance P and acetylcholinesterase, formed patchy patterns in the transplant. Detailed morphology on GABAergic fiber is not available to date, because of the limited antibodies or the method used. GABA is the highest population in the striatal transplant. Two types of GABA-positive cells were clearly distinguishable according to cell size. A majority resembled the medium-sized cell commonly found in striatum, while those of the other type resembled the larger GABA cells usually found in the globus pallidus.
A correlated histochemical and pharmacological study was undertaken to establish the presence, origin, and possible function of nerve fibers containing a galanin-like peptide in the mudpuppy (Necturus maculosus) heart. Whole mount preparations of septum-sinus venosus or atria and sections of ventricular muscle were prepared for immunocytochemistry. Galanin-immunoreactive fibers were found coursing diffusely across the septum-sinus venosus to form complex networks over cardiac muscle strands. Individual atrial muscle strands were densely innervated by galanin-immunoreactive fibers and galanin-immunoreactive fibers were also observed in the epicardial and myocardial layers of the ventricle. Most of the parasympathetic postganglionic neurons in the cardiac ganglion and many of the small intensely fluorescent-like cells exhibited galanin immunoreactivity. Galanin-immunoreactive fibers were present in the nerve trunks connecting clusters of parasympathetic postganglionic neurons. Close associations between galanin-positive fibers and individual parasympathetic postganglionic neurons were also observed. The presence of the galanin-immunoreactive fibers was similar in preparations taken from animals pretreated with 6-hydroxydopamine to that seen in preparations taken from control animals, indicating that the galanin-positive fibers were not sympathetic postganglionic axons. Moreover, the galanin-immunoreactive nerve fibers were separate from fibers containing substance P and/or calcitonin gene-related peptide that have previously been shown to be processes of afferent fibers. In twitch-tension experiments, galanin in the range 1 x 10(-7) to 1 x 10(-6) M caused cardioinhibition of spontaneously beating isolated septal-sinus venosus preparations. Galanin also produced a concentration-dependent (1 x 10(-7) to 1 x 10(-6) M) decrease in the twitch-tension development of electrically stimulated atrial or ventricular preparations. Local application of galanin produced hyperpolarization of cardiac muscle fibers in both isolated septal-sinus venosus preparations and atrial preparations. The response of individual parasympathetic ganglion cells to local application of galanin varied between neurons; some neurons were depolarized whereas others were hyperpolarized. We conclude that a galanin-like peptide is contained in both the parasympathetic postganglionic neurons and small intensely fluorescent-like cells and their processes. Further, we hypothesize that in the case of the parasympathetic postganglionic neurons, the galanin-like peptide may work in conjunction with acetylcholine to regulate cardiac activity.
The afferent inputs to the rostral pole of the anterior pretectal nucleus have been examined by utilizing the retrograde axonal transport of a fluorescent dye, Fast Blue. After unilateral injection of the dye into the rostral anterior prectectal nucleus, large numbers of labelled neuronal somata were found in the somatosensory cortex, the ventrolateral geniculate nucleus, the zona incerta, the superior colliculus, the deep mesencephalic nuclei, the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus and the medial vestibular nucleus. In addition, the contralateral parabigeminal nucleus provided a major input to the rostral part of the anterior pretectal nucleus. Smaller and sparser collections of stained cell bodies could be found in the ventromedial hypothalamus, the posterior pretectal nucleus, the nucleus of the posterior commissure, the peripeduncular nucleus, the periaqueductal central gray, the contralateral anterior pretectal nucleus, and the locus coeruleus. Many of the inputs originated in areas associated with nociceptive pathways. The regional distribution of neurons projecting to the rostral pole of the anterior pretectal nucleus differs substantially from that of the cells innervating the anterior pretectal nucleus proper, i.e. its more caudal parts. It is concluded from this that the rostral pole constitutes a separate nucleus, anatomically distinct from the rest of the anterior pretectal nucleus and other cell groups in the pretectal complex. The demonstration that many of the afferents to the rostral anterior pretectal nucleus arise in regions involved in nociception supports recent electrophysiological and behavioural evidence that this brain area plays a role in the processing of noxious stimuli, rather than as a component in the pretectal control of visual system reflexes.
A monoclonal antibody was obtained by immunizing mice with an extract of monkey brain. The monoclonal antibody 473 stained a small subpopulation of neurons in various regions of monkey and rat central nervous system. The perimeters of neuronal somata and the proximal parts of dendrites bound the antibody. Electron microscopic analysis showed that the immunoreactivity was associated with the outer surface of the cell. The immunoreactivity in the rat cerebral cortex appeared gradually during the second four weeks after birth. The antibody stained fetal cartilages but otherwise was specific to the nervous system. Experiments on the stability of the immunoreactivity to enzymatic and chemical treatments of the sections suggest that the antigen molecule is of proteoglycan nature.
The detailed organization of the corticostriate projection has been investigated in the brain of the rat using the technique of retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase following the placement of small, iontophoretic injections of horseradish peroxidase conjugated to lectin throughout all major regions of the striatum (caudate-putamen, nucleus accumbens and olfactory tubercle). The results demonstrate that all major regions of the cerebral cortex project to the striatum on both sides of the brain with an ipsilateral predominance. The cells of origin of both the ipsilateral and contralateral corticostriate projections lie mainly in lamina V (especially lamina Va) with very small numbers in lamina III of the neocortex and mesocortex, and in the deep laminae of the allocortex. The results show that each striatal locus receives inputs from several cortical regions, i.e. there is extensive overlap in the corticostriate projection, and that, in general terms, each cortical region projects onto a longitudinally oriented region of the striatum. In particular, the major subdivisions of the cerebral cortex--the neocortex, mesocortex and allocortex--project onto defined but partially overlapping regions of the striatum: the neocortex projects to the caudate-putamen; the mesocortex projects mainly to the medial and ventral regions of the caudate-putamen but also to the ventral striatum (nucleus accumens and olfactory tubercle); and the allocortex projects mainly to the ventral striatum but also to the medial and ventral parts of the caudate-putamen. Within each of these major projection systems there is a further organization, with the constituent parts of each major cortical region projecting to smaller longitudinal components of the major projection fields. Each neocortical area projects to a longitudinal region of the dorsal striatum (caudate-putamen): the sensory and motor areas project topographically onto the dorsolateral striatum such that the rostral sensorimotor cortex (head areas) projects to central and ventral regions and the more caudal sensorimotor cortex (limb areas) projects to dorsal regions of the dorsolateral striatum; the visual area projects to the dorsomedial striatum; and the auditory area projects to the medial striatum. Each mesocortical area projects to a longitudinal area of the striatum: the most posteromedial mesocortex (the retrosplenial area) projects to the dorsomedial striatum; more anterior and lateral parts of the mesocortex project to more ventral parts of the striatum: and the most lateral mesocortex (the agranular insular and perirhinal areas) project to the ventrolateral striatum.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The distribution and morphology of individual uncrossed retinogeniculate fibers in both normal and monocularly enucleated adult Dutch-belted rabbits were studied using horseradish peroxidase and wheat germ agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase as neuronal markers. The results showed that the uncrossed retinogeniculate fibers were distributed almost entirely in the ipsilateral segment of the dorsal nucleus of the lateral geniculate body, and the extent of terminal distribution of the fibers observed in rabbits with one eye enucleated during the young adult stage was essentially the same as that in the normal rabbit. Most of the uncrossed retinogeniculate fibers appeared to arise as collateral branches of optic tract fibers which were apparently destined for the pretectum or the superior colliculus. The uncrossed retinogeniculate fibers labeled by the wheat germ agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase passed through the dorsal nucleus of the lateral geniculate body without any branching until they reached the ipsilateral segment. There they could be divided into several morphological types although the possibility that they may represent different classes of a continuum cannot be ruled out.
Pressure ejection of serotonin (2 x 10(-4) M) onto dentate granule neurons in vitro produced a short-lasting membrane hyperpolarization associated with a 10-30% decrease in the input resistance. The hyperpolarization magnitude depended on the extracellular K+ concentration but not on the extra or intracellular Ca2+ concentration. It was followed by a depolarization, especially when serotonin was applied onto the perisomatic area of the neuron. The post-spike-train afterhyperpolarization, which represents a Ca2+-dependent K+ conductance, was decreased by serotonin by 10-100% and remained reduced for 2-10 min following the serotonin-induced hyperpolarization. Decreased adaptation of cell firing was also observed following serotonin application. Ca2+ action potentials evoked by intracellular depolarizing current pulses in the presence of the Na+ channel blocker tetrodotoxin and the K+ channel blocker tetraethylammonium were followed by a large afterhyperpolarization, which was markedly reduced for several minutes following serotonin application. The preceding Ca2+ action potential was either unaffected or prolonged. The hyperpolarization occurring in response to localized application of serotonin, and the reduction of the afterhyperpolarization, may represent two different mechanisms of serotonin action, probably mediated by different mechanisms. The slow time course of the late depolarization and the afterhyperpolarization depression represent modulatory effects of serotonin on dentate granule neurons.
Mapping of a number of biochemical markers for noradrenergic, dopaminergic, serotoninergic, cholinergic and GABAergic systems was undertaken in 93 samples removed from the human cerebral cortex. The right hemisphere of brains from two subjects with no known history of neurological and psychiatric diseases was examined. Neurotransmitter markers were present in all cortical samples analysed, suggesting a widespread distribution of the corresponding neurons throughout the cerebral cortex. Each marker distributed heterogeneously in a distinct pattern. Noradrenaline concentrations were highest in the frontoparietal region and lowest in prefrontal and occipital areas. Markers for dopaminergic neurons (dopamine levels, dopamine/noradrenaline ratio and homovanillic acid levels) seemed denser in the prefrontal and temporal regions. 5-Hydroxyindolacetic acid levels were particularly high in the occipital area and decreased along the caudorostral axis. Choline acetyltransferase activity was highest in temporal and frontal lobes, at variance with muscarinic receptor distribution, which was highest in occipital cortex. Glutamate decarboxylase activity, an index of GABAergic innervation, did not vary markedly among the different areas of the cerebral cortex. The different biochemical markers investigated were detected in all cerebral cortical regions; their distribution was not homogeneous. A mismatch was observed between the distribution of cholinergic neuronal systems and receptors.
The cerebellum receives input from visual cortical areas via a relay in the pontine nuclei. We have compared the location in the pontine nuclei of terminal fields of fibres from visual areas 18 and 20, and the posteromedial lateral suprasylvian visual area. Due to individual variations in the precise location of terminal fields, comparisons were performed in individual animals. Horseradish peroxidase-wheat germ agglutinin conjugate was used as an anterograde tracer in combination with the Fink and Heimer method for visualization of anterograde degeneration. Most of the terminal fields of area 20 are widely separated from those of area 18. Fibres from the posteromedial lateral suprasylvian visual area and area 20 terminate close to each other but overlap of terminal fields is limited. Area 18 and the posteromedial area have in some places completely overlapping terminal fields; in other places, however, there is only partial overlap or complete separation. Generally, segregation of terminal fields from different areas is most pronounced in the caudal part of the recipient zone of the pontine nuclei. The terminal fields of fibres from the three cortical areas studied appear as numerous patches arranged in a complicated mosaic that tend to form concentric lamellae around the ventromedial aspect of the peduncle. Within these lamellae, area 18 projects mainly to the innermost one, area 20 to the outermost, and the posteromedial area to an intermediate lamella. Whether terminal fibres from different areas are segregated (non-overlapping) or overlapping in the pontine nuclei is of relevance for the functional organization of the cerebrocerebellar pathway. Segregation of terminal fields from different areas would mean that the areas in question influence different sets of pontocerebellar neurons and thereby relay information to the cerebellum in separate channels. Overlap of terminal fields from different areas could mean that convergence on the same pontocerebellar neurons occurs (although convergence cannot be proved with the techniques employed in this study). This study indicates that information from visual areas is relayed at least in part in separate channels from the cortex to the cerebellum.
Visual area 20 in the cat projects to the pontine nuclei and thereby gives input to the cerebellum. The termination of the fibres and the distribution of the cells of origin were studied with anterograde and retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase-wheat germ agglutinin. Fibres from area 20 terminate ipsilaterally in the medial half of the rostral three-quarters of the pontine nuclei. The labelled fibres occur in multiple well-restricted patches usually some distance away from the peduncle. The retrogradely labelled cells in areas 20a, 20b, and the adjacent posterior suprasylvian visual area were quantitatively mapped. Areal borders were placed according to the maps of Tusa and Palmer (J. comp. Neurol. 193, 147-164) and Updyke (J. comp. Neurol. 246, 265-280). In terms of cortical densities (cells per mm2 of cortex) area 20a is among the visual areas with the highest densities of corticopontine neurons (data from other visual areas from the author's previous works). Densities are 30-60% lower in area 20b than in 20a. The posterior suprasylvian visual area was found to be among the visual areas with the lowest densities of corticopontine neurons. Due to the small size of the areas investigated, the total number of corticopontine cells within them is small compared to many other areas. Within areas 20a and 20b, cortical densities are higher in the representation of visual space below than above the horizontal meridian. Furthermore, cortical densities are generally somewhat higher in the region devoted to central vision compared to regions devoted to the visual periphery. Since the part of cortex in areas 20a and 20b devoted to central vision is weakly over-represented also in terms of cortical volume, it follows that the &quot;visual field density&quot; (cells per degree of visual field) of corticopontine cells is highest in the central visual field representation. The finding of an over-representation of central vision compared to peripheral vision in the corticopontine projection from areas 20a and 20b is particularly interesting in conjunction with previous findings in other visual areas. In the cortical representations of central vision, areas with high magnification factors (i.e. areas that greatly emphasize central vision in terms of cortical volume, such as areas 17, 18, and 19) have relatively low cortical densities of pontine projecting cells, whereas areas with low magnification factors (such as areas 20a, 20b, and some of the lateral suprasylvian visual areas) have relatively high cortical densities. The &quot;visual field density&quot; of corticopontine neurons appears therefore to be fairly constant from area to area as concerns central vision.
In the substantia nigra, acetylcholinesterase may have a non-classical function unrelated to cholinergic transmission. Acetylcholinesterase is released from the dendrites of dopamine-containing nigrostriatal neurons and has a subsequent action on these cells, independent of hydrolysis of acetylcholine. The aim of this study was to explore further the precise nature of this &quot;non-cholinergic&quot; action of acetylcholinesterase. Acetylcholinesterase was pressure-ejected in the vicinity of the dendrites of putative nigrostriatal neurons in vitro, in near-physiological amounts, and the effects of this treatment on neuronal membrane properties were investigated. It was found that acetylcholinesterase reversibly hyperpolarized the nigrostriatal cell membrane independent of sodium and calcium channel blockade. Acetylcholinesterase pretreated with an irreversible inhibitor (Soman) of its classical catalytic site produced the same hyperpolarizing effect: however, butyrylcholinesterase, which hydrolyses acetylcholine, was inefficacious. These effects persisted in the presence of the dopamine receptor antagonist sulpiride. It is suggested the acetylcholinesterase can facilitate the generation of a long-duration conductance, which enhances the firing of nigrostriatal cells if the neuron is first hyperpolarized. Hence the action of acetylcholinesterase would be to modulate inputs. These actions are independent of direct interaction with acetylcholine and dopamine systems. Hence, in the substantia nigra, acetylcholinesterase might serve as a &quot;neuromodulatory&quot; secretory protein.
The present study was undertaken to provide anatomical evidence, in the rat, for a direct projection from the cerebellum towards structures, other than the red nucleus, which belong to the ventral midbrain tegmentum, by using the retrograde as well as the anterograde horseradish peroxidase transport method. Following unilateral injection in the ventral midbrain tegmentum of horseradish peroxidase, free or conjugated to wheat germ agglutinin, sparing the red nucleus, retrogradely labeled neurons were found in the contralateral cerebellar lateral nucleus and, at lower density, in the interpositus nucleus. No labeled neurons were found in the fastigial nucleus of either side. Anterogradely labeled axons from lectin coupled horseradish peroxidase injection sites in the lateral and interpositus nuclei reached the contralateral ventral midbrain tegmentum. Terminal labeling was observed in the entire red nucleus as well as in the lateral division of the ventral tegmental area of Tsai, in the dorsal region of the substantia nigra pars compacta, and in the medial part of the retrorubral field. No terminal labeling was found in the caudal linear nucleus, interfascicular nucleus, peripeduncular nucleus, rostral linear nucleus of the raphe, substantia nigra pars lateralis and the substantia nigra pars reticulata. Terminal labeling was also not observed in the ventral midbrain tegmentum following horseradish peroxidase injection in lateral and interpositus nuclei of rats pretreated with kainic acid. In conclusion, it is noteworthy that, besides the red nucleus, the sole structures of ventral midbrain tegmentum receiving cerebellar efferents are those with a higher density of dopaminergic cells.
A double labelling immunohistochemical study of rat L4 dorsal root ganglia was made with an anti-substance P antibody and with an antibody, RT97, which specifically labels the light cell population. Substance P-like immunoreactivity was found in 30% of the small dark neurons and 10% of the light neurons. Of the neurons with substance P-like immunoreactivity, 30% were light neurons and 70% were small dark neurons. A study of electrophysiologically characterized neurons in lumbar dorsal root ganglia with dye injection revealed substance P-like immunoreactivity in neurons with conduction velocities ranging from 0.5 to 9.5 m/s. It was seen in 50% of C-fibre neurons, in 20% of A delta-fibre neurons, and in no A alpha/beta neurons. Overall, substance-P-like immunoreactivity was found in 10% of A-fibre neurons sampled.
Retrograde double-labeling methods that used two different fluorescent dyes or a fluorescent dye in combination with wheat germ agglutinin horseradish peroxidase were used in the rat to study the collateralization of cerebellopontine fibers to the thalamus, the superior colliculus, or the inferior olive. In cases with combined basilar pontine nuclei and thalamus injections, double-labeled neurons were located in the rostral part of the lateral cerebellar nucleus as well as within the interpositus anterior and interpositus posterior nuclei. These cells are medium to large in size and multipolar-shaped. A much smaller number of double-labeled cells was observed in the combined basilar pontine nuclei and superior colliculus injections. In these cases most of the double-labeled cells were intermediate- to large-sized and either bipolar- or multipolar-shaped. Such neurons were distributed throughout the rostrocaudal extent of the lateral cerebellar nucleus, with only a few double-labeled cells located in the interpositus anterior and posterior nuclei. Finally, in the cases with combined basilar pontine nuclei and inferior olive injections, double-labeled cells were located in interpositus anterior and posterior nuclei and the medial portion of the lateral cerebellar nucleus. The double-labeled cells were relatively small in size and most were spindle-shaped. No double-labeled cells were observed in the medial cerebellar nucleus in any of the three injection combinations. Based upon the observation of double-labeled neurons in the deep cerebellar nuclei in each of the three injection combinations involving the basilar pontine nuclei, we conclude that cerebellar projections to the basilar pons arise in part as collaterals of axons that project to the thalamus, superior colliculus, or the inferior olive.
Studies were made on whether substance P-, leucine-enkephalin- and 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin)-like immunoreactive fibers exert a direct influence on the cremaster motoneurons of the male rat by immunocytochemistry combined with retrograde tracing at the light- and electron-microscopic levels. Horseradish peroxidase was used as a retrograde tracer. Two days after injection of horseradish peroxidase into the genitofemoral nerves, its accumulation in the cremaster motoneurons was demonstrated by the diaminobenzidine-nickel method. On immunocytochemical examination of the same sections immunoreactive end-products were detected by the peroxidase-antiperoxidase method. Two different kinds of reaction products were distinguishable at both the light- and electron-microscopical levels. The horseradish peroxidase-labeled cremaster motoneurons at the L1 and L2 levels of the spinal cord were surrounded by abundant immunoreactive terminals. Examination at the ultrastructural level showed that substance P-like immunoreactive terminals formed synaptic contacts almost exclusively with the proximal dendrites of these horseradish peroxidase-labeled cremaster motoneurons. On the other hand, in the leucine-enkephalin- and serotonin-like boutons, significant numbers of axosomatic contacts with horseradish peroxidase-labeled cells were seen although axodendritic contacts with horseradish peroxidase-labeled cells were predominant. Occasionally, leucine-enkephalin-like immunoreactive fibers with synapses on horseradish peroxidase-labeled neurons formed axoaxonic contacts with other leucine-enkephalin-like axonal terminals. Thus, substance P-, leucine-enkephalin- and serotonin-like fibers clearly regulate the function of cremaster motoneurons monosynaptically. The varied synaptic contacts of these fibers according to the neuroactive substances involved suggest different actions of these substances on the cremaster motoneurons.
This paper describes the use of EEG power spectrum analysis as a tool in identifying and controlling the state of an animal, a major source of variability in evoked potential (EP) data. Also described is a procedure of anesthetic administration combined with on-line EEG power spectrum analysis that permits an animal to be maintained in a stable, moderately anesthetized state during which VEP's are qualitatively comparable to those seen in the unanesthetized animal. Anesthesia level in acute preparations was varied by IV injections of chloral hydrate, and the EEG and light-flash VEP's were recorded from visual cortex. Under deep anesthesia, EEG activity was concentrated in the 0.1 Hz to 3 Hz band with very little contribution from frequencies higher than 10 Hz. After this period of deep anesthesia, EEG frequency distribution became bimodal with peaks in the 0.1-3 Hz and 5-7 Hz ranges, and a minor frequency band between 10 and 30 Hz. This moderate anesthetic state persisted for about 30 min. Two distinct forms of VEP's were highly correlated with these EEG frequency distributions. VEP's associated with the moderate anesthetic state were comparable to those reported from awake, chronic preparations. In VEP's associated with deep anesthesia, negative components were greatly attenuated or entirely absent; amplitudes of the positive components were increased as were the latencies of all components.
Neurofilament (NF) protein crosslinking has been proposed as the ultimate pathogenetic mechanism underlying the neuropathies caused by the gamma-diketones 2,5-hexanedione (HD) and 3,4-dimethyl-2,5-hexanedione (DMHD). Mammalian models have been used to investigate this hypothesis, but alternative experimental models are needed. Myxicola infundibulum is a marine worm which is gaining popularity in neuroscience research because of its large syncytial axon. A model system using Myxicola has been developed to investigate NF crosslinking in worms exposed to neurotoxic agents whose putative mechanisms involve covalent crosslinking of NF proteins. In vitro studies using purified NF demonstrate that progressive alkylation of Myxicola NF with [2,5-14C]DMHD is accompanied by NF protein crosslinking. Rabbit anti-Myxicola NF antisera showed highly restricted activity for Myxicola axoplasm and NF and were employed for immunoblotting axoplasm from Myxicola treated in vivo with DMHD. A dramatic increase in high molecular weight material was demonstrated in the axoplasm of treated worms, as demonstrated by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, and the new high molecular weight bands stained with the anti-NF antisera, indicating the presence of anti-NF reactive material in the crosslinked protein. Further, there was progression of crosslinking after cessation of exposure in vivo, an observation which suggests oxidation of remaining pyrrolyl derivatives. These studies support previous observations which suggest that NF crosslinking is the molecular event which initiates NF aggregation in gamma-diketone neurotoxicity, and establish Myxicola infundibulum as a useful species in which to study certain neurotoxic compounds.




This case study describes how a nursing educator worked with nursing service administrators and staff to open a new neurological/neurosurgical special care unit. Included are the administrative process needed to set up such an arrangement, the establishment of roles and relationships, methods of maintaining internal consistency, unit and staff development, research involvement, outcomes, and drawbacks and benefits to this type of arrangement.
5-Hydroxytryptamine3 antagonists have been reported to prevent emesis elicited by cisplatin and radiation. This study investigated the possibility that drugs with this mechanism of action may be useful in preventing emesis elicited by other stimuli. The drugs ICS 205-930 (0.1 and 1.0 mg/kg) and MDL 72222 (0.1 and 1.0 mg/kg) were administered SC to cats before challenging them with either provocative motion or an emetic dose of xylazine. In no instance was a significant reduction in emesis evident. Zacopride was also administered before motion testing (0.01 to 10.0 mg/kg) and found to not have efficacy. To test the possibility that species or route of administration were factors in the negative results, 1.0 mg/kg of ICS 205-930 was administered SC before IV infusion of 7.5 mg/kg of cisplatin. There was a total suppression of emesis for the duration of the six-hour observation periods. This result verifies other work which found 5-hydroxytryptamine3 antagonists to be effective in preventing emesis elicited by cancer chemotherapeutic treatments. However, there is no evidence that they are effective in other syndromes, such as motion sickness and xylazine-induced emesis.
The antipsychotic effect of neuroleptic drugs appears gradually over the course of several weeks of chronic drug administration. Neuroleptic drugs are thought to act by blocking dopamine receptors; however, the dopamine-blocking effect of neuroleptics appears rapidly. One effect of dopamine antagonists which develops slowly is dopaminergic supersensitivity. It is suggested that this dopaminergic supersensitivity is related to the development of tolerance to some of the acute sedative properties of neuroleptics, but not to the antipsychotic effect. A population of glutamate receptors which are postsynaptic to the cortico-striatal afferents is located on the same neurons as striatal dopamine receptors. These glutamate synapses are located on the heads of dendritic spines of striato-nigral projection neurons, while the dopaminergic synapses are predominantly located on the necks of these same dendritic spines. Similar relationships could exist for mesolimbic and mesocortical dopamine systems. In peripheral systems, postjunctional denervation supersensitivity is known to be nonspecific; in other words, denervation of a single innervation of an excitable cell can alter the response to a range of stimuli. The antipsychotic effect of neuroleptics is therefore suggested to be due to nonspecific postjunctional subsensitivity at glutamate synapses, which develops concomitant with supersensitivity at dopaminergic synapses.
(a) When a subject indents one of his eyeballs in total darkness, he immediately perceives light extending slowly across the whole visual field of the indented eye. The appearance and the time course of these pressure or deformation phosphenes are described. (b) With simultaneous binocular indentation of the eyeballs a flickering patterned phosphene is observed. (c) A short history of the research on pressure phosphenes and its consequences for the theories of vision is presented. (d) Purkyn's observations of monocular deformation phosphenes are described. He repeatedly noted patterned light structures, which most observers only perceive with simultaneous binocular eyeball deformation. It is suggested that Purkyn's deviating observations were caused by amblyopia of one eye. (e) The neurophysiological basis of the monocular pressure phosphenes was investigated by means of microelectrode recordings from single optic tract fibers. The activity of single retinal ganglion cells (on-center, off-center neurons, latency class I [Y-neurons] or latency class II [X-neurons]), was recorded in anaesthetized cats. Eyeball deformation in total darkness led to an activation of the on-center ganglion cells, while the off-center ganglion cells were inhibited. The latency and strength of this activation or inhibition varied considerably between different neurons, but were fairly constant in the same neuron when the eyeball indentation was repeated after a pause of 1-3 min. The latency and strength of neuronal activation or inhibition seemed to be dependent mainly upon the neuron location relative to the point of eyeball indentation. Some on-center neurons also exhibited a short activation at &quot;deformation off&quot;. (f) The antagonistic response type of on-center and off-center ganglion cells was also observed when the eyeball was deformed as a hydrostatic open system and the intraocular pressure was kept at 25 mm Hg basic pressure. (g) Dark adaptation up to 45 min affected the deformation responses of retinal neurons only to a small degree, if at all. This corresponds to the observation that deformation phosphenes in a human observer changed little during the course of dark adaptation. (h) We assume that the activation of on-center and inhibition of off-center ganglion cells by eyeball deformation are caused by retinal stretching, which also leads to horizontal cell stretch. Stretching the horizontal cell membrane probably generates an increase in membrane sodium conductivity and a depolarization of the membrane potential. This depolarization of the horizontal cell membrane potential is transmitted either directly or indirectly (via receptor synapses) from the horizontal to the bipolar cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Peptidyl-glycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM; EC 1.14.17.3) catalyzes the conversion of a variety of glycine-extended peptides into biologically active alpha-amidated product peptides in a reaction dependent on copper, ascorbate, and molecular oxygen. We have isolated and sequenced cDNAs representing the two major classes of PAM mRNA in the adult rat heart atrium. The two types of cDNA, rPAM-1 and rPAM-2, are identical except for the deletion of a 315-base-pair segment within the protein coding region in rPAM-2, suggesting that rPAM-1 and rPAM-2 arise by alternative splicing. Northern analysis using a cDNA probe derived from within the 315-base-pair region deleted in rPAM-2 visualized the larger of the PAM mRNAs in adult rat atrium and not the smaller, indicating that the presence or absence of this 315-nucleotide segment is a major feature distinguishing the two size forms of PAM mRNA. The 105 amino acid segment that distinguishes the two forms of atrial PAM contains a consensus N-glycosylation site and a paired basic amino acid site of potential importance in endoproteolytic processing. Comparison of the nucleotide sequences of rat, frog, and bovine PAM cDNAs reveals an extremely well conserved segment in the 3' untranslated region. The high degree of conservation in amino acid sequence throughout the catalytic, intragranular, and cytoplasmic domains of rat atrium, bovine pituitary, and frog skin PAM suggests that both the catalytic and noncatalytic domains of the protein subserve important functions.
These experiments investigate the capacity of thalamic and cortical structures in a sensory system to process information of a modality normally associated with another system. Retinal ganglion cells in newborn Syrian hamsters were made to project permanently to the main thalamic somatosensory (ventrobasal) nucleus. When the animals were adults, single unit recordings were made in the somatosensory cortices, the principal targets of the ventrobasal nucleus. The somatosensory neurons responded to visual stimulation of distinct receptive fields, and their response properties resembled, in several characteristic features, those of normal visual cortical neurons. In the visual cortex of normal animals and the somatosensory cortex of operated animals, the same functional categories of neurons occurred in similar proportions, and the neurons' selectivity for the orientation or direction of movement of visual stimuli was comparable. These results suggest that thalamic nuclei or cortical areas at corresponding levels in the visual and somatosensory pathways perform similar transformations on their inputs.
The neurofibrillary tangle (NFT) is a pathological cytoskeletal structure found in diseased neurons of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Immunocytochemical studies have revealed that the NFT contains cytoskeletal components which are excessively phosphorylated. It is not known if the overphosphorylation of cytoskeletal components is causally involved in the formation of NFT or if it is a simple reflection of abnormal cytoskeletal structure. A major pathological feature of AD is selective neuronal degeneration. Because neuronal survival is supported by the combined function of many growth factors which trigger various protein kinase reactions, some of the cascade reactions necessary for the survival of neurons may be aberrant in AD neurons. In fact, the concentration of Ca2+/phospholipid-dependent protein kinase (protein kinase C, PK-C) is lower in AD cortex than in control cortex. Furthermore, the endogenous phosphorylation reaction catalyzed by this kinase revealed diminished levels of phosphate incorporation into a major PK-C substrate, Mr 86,000 protein (P86). Is this aberrant PK-C system pertinent to NFT formation? The number of tangles does not correlate well with the degree of PK-C abnormality. Therefore, some other protein kinases may be involved in NFT formation. Under conditions where cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PK-A) and PK-C were not stimulated, the levels of in vitro phosphorylation of a Mr 60,000 protein (P60) by an endogenous kinase were found to be increased in AD cortex as compared to control. This increased P60 phosphorylation was not detected in AD patients without NFT, suggesting the involvement of P60 phosphorylation in the process of tangle formation. In fact, the degree of the P60 phosphorylation showed a positive correlation with tangle numbers. P60 phosphorylation was induced in neurons under various conditions where PK-C activity was impaired. Thus, it is possible that the aberrant P60 phosphorylation is consequential to aberrant PK-C. The other protein kinase relevant to NFT formation is casein kinase II (CK-II). CK-II concentration is reduced in AD cortex but its specific activity is increased. Immunohistochemical study of CK-II revealed a general decrease in its staining in AD neurons and a strong staining of NFT. Conversely, anti-paired helical filament antibody cross-reacted with partially purified CK-II. Thus, many protein kinases are affected in AD and some of them are associated with aberrant cytoarchitecture in AD neurons. Further study of protein phosphorylation in AD neurons should prove useful in elucidating the formation of pathological cytoarchitecture and eventual cell death in this disease.
Receptor binding methods provide the most direct measure of drug-receptor interaction currently available. They provide information, inexpensively, rapidly, and reliably on the interaction of chemical agents with receptors. Furthermore, receptor binding may be used to gain insight into receptor dysfunctions that may underlie a variety of diseases. Binding studies have been and will continue to be important in identifying the locus of action of psychotherapeutic drugs. This is not to suggest that in vivo testing should be supplanted by receptor binding assays, but that these assays represent a powerful weapon in the drug discovery team's armementarium and should not be overlooked.
1. Adult neurones grafted to the adult nervous system show limited survival and growth potential. By contrast, certain foetal neurones of a defined age, when grafted to the damaged adult nervous system survive, and form a dense innervation of the host brain with morphologically defined synapses. Monamine containing neurones in the rat have these properties. In a number of model systems their ability to survive grafting to the adult brain has been demonstrated, the optimal conditions for their survival and the importance of endogenous growth factors continue to be investigated. 2. Lesions of the ascending dopamine pathways to the dorsal and ventral striatum result in profound motor disorders. Dopamine-rich foetal neurones from the mesencephalon grafted as blocks of tissue or as cell suspensions provide a rich innervation to the dopamine-depleted target areas and reverse many of these motor impairments. Similar models have been developed for the cholinergic innervation from the basal forebrain to the hippocampus and cortex. Cholinergic depletion of these forebrain structures impair performance on spatial memory tasks, which are reversed by grafts of foetal basal forebrain neurones to cortex or hippocampus. 3. The grafting model is a powerful tool with which to define the functional role of neurotransmitters in brain function. The neurological properties of foetal monoamine and cholinergic neurones which underlie their ability to afford functional compensation to the damaged nervous system and their vulnerability in certain degenerative diseases of the CNS in man remain obscure.

1. Excitatory amino acids are major transmitters within the CNS. 2. Postsynaptic receptors for these transmitters, particularly those of the NMDA subtype are important in a variety of physiological and pathological processes. Therefore psychoactive drugs and potentially therapeutic drugs may target these receptors. 3. NMDA receptors can be regulated by competitive antagonists or by dissociative anaesthetics which act as use dependent blockers of the NMDA channel. 4. Alternatively drugs could modify intracellular second messenger systems that control expression of NMDA receptors.
Evidence for interactions between the nervous and immune systems arises from a number of experimental observations: the behavioral conditioning of immune responses, the effects of stimulation or lesion of brain sites on immune system function, the effects of stressors on immune responses and tumor growth, and physiological and neurochemical changes in the brain during immune responses. The links between the nervous and immune systems probably include glucocorticoids secreted from the adrenal gland, catecholamines and neuropeptides secreted by sympathetic terminals and the adrenal medulla, certain pituitary and gonadal hormones, and polypeptides produced by cells of the immune system. The effect of glucocorticoids is not exclusively immunosuppressive, nor is it adequate to explain all the effects of stress. The effects of opiates on immune function are complex; in vitro, endogenous opiates most often facilitate immune activity, but in vivo, opiates appear to inhibit immune responses and impair tumor rejection. The in vitro effects are rarely prevented by naloxone pretreatment and appear to require the integrity of the C- rather than the N-terminal of beta-endorphin, suggesting a nonopiate character. Infections or the administration of antigens increase circulating concentrations of glucocorticoids and activate cerebral catecholaminergic metabolism, especially in the hypothalamus. These responses suggest that challenges to the immune system are physiologic stressors. Interleukin-1 (IL-1) produced by immune cells may be the mediator of these effects, thus acting as an &quot;immunoneurotransmitter&quot;. The cerebral responses suggest that the brain can monitor the progress of immune responses. IL-1 and the glucocorticoids together may form a regulatory feedback mechanism for immune responses.
The present paper examines the persistence of content of delusions in 48 patients diagnosed as either affective disorder or schizophrenia. These patients were attending psychiatric clinic at National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences, Bangalore, India, between 1986 and 1988. The type and content of delusion was assessed in each patient at each psychotic episode. Persistence in delusional content was found in one-third of the patients. It is likely that cultural and psychological factors may be contributing to this complex phenomenon of delusional persistence.
The muscarinic antagonist scopolamine and the benzodiazepine lorazepam both produce transient impairments in memory and attention in normal volunteers. These impairments can be reversed by appropriate agents such as the cholinesterase inhibitor physostigmine in the case of scopolamine or the benzodiazepine antagonist Ro 15-1788 in the case of lorazepam. In this paper we investigated the pharmacological specificity of these reversals by examining the interactions of scopolamine and Ro 15-1788 and of lorazepam and physostigmine. There was no evidence that the effects of scopolamine and lorazepam on cognitive function could be attenuated by Ro 15-1788 and physostigmine, respectively. The results are discussed in terms of pharmacological models of Alzheimer's disease.
Fluphenazine decanoate (25 mg/kg IM every 3 weeks x 6) resulted in spontaneous vacuous chewing mouth movements and jaw tremor in male Sprague-Dawley rats. These movements could be suppressed by the selective D1 or D2 dopamine antagonists SCH 23390 (0.5 mg/kg) and raclopride (0.5 mg/kg), respectively, and by CCK-8S (50 micrograms/kg). Fluphenazine-induced mouth movements were unaffected by the selective CCK antagonist MK-329, and by a dose of physostigmine (50 micrograms/kg) sufficient to stimulate mouth movements in placebo treated rats. Scopolamine (0.1 mg/kg) suppressed spontaneous mouth movements in placebo-treated rats, but the effect on fluphenazine-induced mouth movements was not significant. A higher dose of scopolamine (0.5 mg/kg) did suppress the neuroleptic-induced mouth movements, but also induced hyperactivity, characterized by increased sniffing and grooming. These findings indicate that mouth movements resulting from the chronic administration of neuroleptics to the rat may serve as a useful pharmacological model of tardive dyskinesia in the human, and suggest that a relative increase of D1 activity as well as impaired CCK function may contribute to the pathogenesis of this disorder.
In drug discrimination studies benzodiazepine-trained animals have typically responded on the drug lever when tested with barbiturates. In a recent study, greater specificity appeared to be shown when lorazepam was used as a training drug. The generality and limits of this finding were explored in the present set of experiments. The asymmetrical cross-generalization found in lorazepam- and pentobarbital-trained baboons was replicated in rats and was shown not to be a function of either lorazepam (0.1., 0.32, or 1.0 mg/kg) or pentobarbital (10 or 25 mg/kg) training dose (i.e., pentobarbital-trained rats responded on the drug lever in tests with lorazepam, but lorazepam-trained rats did not show comparable pentobarbital generalization). In the next experiment, groups of rats were trained to discriminate chlordiazepoxide (10 mg/kg), triazolam (0.1 mg/kg), or diazepam (1.0 mg/kg). Generalization to both lorazepam and pentobarbital was shown by these rats. Finally after daily pentobarbital administration, lorazepam-trained rats made a sufficient number of responses after high pentobarbital doses to permit extension of the range of pentobarbital doses tested. Pentobarbital generalization increased, but still did not occur in all rats and was unreliable in successive tests in the same rats. These results suggest less homogeneity in the discriminative stimulus effects of &quot;depressant drugs&quot; than generally has been recognized.
The modulatory role of serotonin (5-HT) on the acoustic startle reflex was studied using 5-HT receptor agonists and antagonists. 8-Hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino) tetralin (8-OHDPAT) (1,2 and 4 mg/kg, SC) and 5-methoxy-N,N-dimethyltryptamine (5-MeODMT) (1,2 and 4 mg/kg, IP), putative 5-HT1a receptor agonists, increased the magnitude of the startle reflex, while quipazine (5, 10 and 20 mg/kg, SC), an agonist with mixed 5-HT2 and 5-HT1b receptor activity, decreased startle responsiveness. Pretreatment of rats with ketanserin (1, 2 and 4 mg/kg, SC), a 5-HT2 receptor antagonist, had no significant effect on the activity of 8-OHDPAT, 5-MeODMT, or quipazine. Metergoline (0.25, 0.5, 1 and 2 mg/kg, SC), a mixed 5-HT1/5-HT2 receptor antagonist attenuated the augmentation of the reflex by 8-OHDPAT and 5-MeODMT and the suppression produced by quipazine. At the doses used, metergoline produced a non-dose-dependent increase in startle, while ketanserin had no effect. None of the agents specifically affected the ability of a prepulse stimulus to inhibit the acoustic startle response. These data suggest that 5-HT1a and 5-HT1b receptors play opposite roles in the modulation of the acoustic startle response and that 5-HT plays little, if any, role in the prepulse inhibition of the acoustic startle response.
Tail suspension-induced immobility in rodents is specifically antagonized by antidepressants, and has been proposed as an animal model of depression. Marked differences in tail suspension-induced immobility were observed among nine inbred mouse strains, ranging from 1 +/- 0.3 to 96 +/- 8-s in a 300-s test period. Moreover, these nine strains could be ranked in four distinct groups based on their immobilities, in which Balb/cJ and DBA/2J mice displayed the highest and the lowest immobility times, respectively. While significant differences in open field activity were also observed among strains, these differences were unrelated to their immobility times in the tail suspension test. These findings strongly suggest that performance in this proposed animal model of depression is under specific genetic control, and may provide a useful tool to study neurochemical and neuroendocrine correlates of depression and antidepressant action.
Male rats were tested in a simple olfactory habituation and discrimination paradigm. Untreated rats habituated their responses over three trials to one odour but were capable of recognising a novel odour presented on the fourth trial. Administration (SC) of either scopolamine or N-methylscopolamine before trials commenced produced a decrease in overall responding. Scopolamine, but not N-methylscopolamine, also blocked habituation to the first odour and recognition to the second, novel odour. Administration of scopolamine after trial 3 did not block the ability of the animals to respond differentially to a novel odour, although again overall levels of responding were decreased. Electrolytic lesions of the medial septal area increased overall levels of responding but lesioned animals still habituated their response over trials and were capable of recognising a novel odour. Therefore although cholinergic mechanisms appear to be involved in this type of learning, these effects are unlikely to be mediated via the septohippocampal system.
The ability of four central cholinomimetics to reverse a scopolamine-induced spatial memory impairment or to improve visual recognition memory in primates was examined. Physostigmine (0.04-0.08 mg/kg IM) fully reversed the effects of scopolamine (0.03 mg/kg). Coadministration of pilocarpine (3.0-5.0 mg/kg) caused partial reversal of the scopolamine impairment after intermediate or long retention intervals (10 or 20 s). Treatment with arecoline (0.1-1.8 mg/kg) or nicotine (1.0-2.0 mg/kg) generally did not reverse the effects of scopolamine. A task in which memory could be taxed by increasing the number of visual stimuli presented appeared more sensitive to the effects of cholinomimetics on cognition than the scopolamine reversal model. In this paradigm treatment with physostigmine (0.001, 0.01 or 0.03 mg/kg) increased choice accuracy from about 55 to 70% correct. Arecoline improved performance at one dose only (0.1 mg/kg) which also induced marked adverse side-effects (salivation and tremor). Pilocarpine improved performance in the dose range 0.125-0.35 mg/kg, but not at higher doses which also induced marked salivation. Treatment with nicotine (0.001-2.0 mg/kg tended to improve performance but this did not reach statistical significance. The relevance of these findings for studies in man and for animal models of dementia is discussed.

It has been shown that the hallucinogenic potencies of LSD, the phenylisopropylamines, such as DOB (4-bromo-2,5-dimethoxyphenylisopropylamine) and DOI (4-iodo-2,5-dimethoxyphenylisopropylamine), and the indolealkylamines, such as DMT (dimethyltryptamine) and 5-OMe-DMT (5-methoxy-dimethyltryptamine), strongly correlate with their in vitro 5-HT2 receptor binding affinities in rat cortical homogenates. In order to ascertain if this correlation applies to human 5-HT2 receptors as well, we examined the affinities of 13 psychoactive compounds at 3H-ketanserin-labelled 5-HT2 receptors in human cortical samples. Both radioligand binding and autoradiographical procedures were used. As in rat brain, d-LSD was the most potent displacer of 3H-ketanserin specific binding with a Ki of 0.9 nM. The phenylisopropylamine DOI also displayed high affinity (Ki of 6 nM). Stereospecific interactions were found with DOB; (-) DOB had a Ki of 17 nM while (+) DOB had a Ki of 55 nM. The behaviorally active compound DOM (4-methyl-2,5-phenylisopropylamine) had an affinity of 162 nM while its behaviorally less active congener iso-DOM had an affinity of 6299 nM. The indolealkylamines 5-OMe-DMT and DMT competed with moderate affinities (207 and 462 nM, respectively). In general, Hill coefficients were significantly less than unity which is consistent with an agonist interaction with 5-HT2 receptors. MDMA, a substituted amphetamine analog was inactive with a Ki of greater than 10 microM. A strong correlation was found for the hallucinogen affinities and human hallucinogenic potencies (r = 0.97). Also, human and rat brain 5-HT2 receptor affinities were strongly correlated (r = 0.99). These results strongly support the hypothesis that the hallucinogenic effects of these drugs in humans are mediated in whole or in part via 5-HT2 receptors. Furthermore, these studies imply that treatment with 5-HT2 receptor antagonists may be effective in reversing the hallucinogenic effects caused by the ingestion of LSD and LSD-like drugs.
The present experiments examined whether the rate and type of events maintaining responding help determine physostigmine's behavioral effects. The first two experiments examined the acute and chronic effects of physostigmine, respectively, on lever pressing of rats under variable-interval schedules of food presentation. The third examined the chronic effects of physostigmine on lever pressing under random-interval schedules of shock avoidance. Three different variable intervals (18, 56, and 180 s) and two different random intervals (20 and 60 s) were studied, each associated with a distinctive stimulus. Baseline rates of responding were directly related to the scheduled rate of food delivery or shock avoidance. Acute administration of 0.154-1.233 mumol/kg (0.1-0.8 mg/kg) physostigmine sulfate produced monotonic decreases in overall response rate under all schedules of food presentation. Acute effects (per cent of control response rate) did not differ systematically under the various interval values. Large doses (i.e., 0.4 or 0.8 mg/kg) suppressed the rate of food delivery as well. When initially administered, 0.967 mumol/kg (0.4 mg/kg) physostigmine salicylate also suppressed avoidance response rates and per cent shocks avoided. Tolerance developed to the effects of this dose of physostigmine salicylate on pellet or shock-avoidance frequency more rapidly than to effects on overall response rate. Tolerance to the latter developed only very gradually and could in the case of shock-avoidance response rates be considered partial at best. Tolerance was not affected by the scheduled rate of food or shock presentation. Blood acetylcholinesterase levels showed no recovery during chronic physostigmine. Tolerance is discussed in terms of the reinforcement-loss hypothesis.
In this study we examined the effects of lorazepam (2.0 mg PO) plus either placebo or one of three doses of the benzodiazepine antagonist Ro 15-1788 (0.3 mg, 1.0 mg or 3.0 mg IV) on measures of memory, attention and sedation. We found that lorazepam impaired verbal secondary memory performance, but also produced subjective and objective sedation; it increased reaction time, reduced critical flicker fusion thresholds and caused subjects to make more errors on a sustained attention task and rate themselves as drowsy. Ro 15-1788 dose dependently blocked the deficit in secondary memory produced by lorazepam, but also showed monotonic dose-related antagonism of its effects on indices of sedation (with the exception of the critical flicker fusion deficit, which was unaffected). These results demonstrate that lorazepam-induced cognitive deficits can be blocked by a benzodiazepine receptor antagonist. They also suggest that the memory deficits produced in this pharmacological model of organic amnesia are not readily dissociated from deficits in attention.
Penile erection and yawning induced by the intracerebroventricular (ICV) injection of oxytocin (10-1000 ng) was studied in hypophysectomized rats and in rats neonatally treated with monosodium glutamate (MSG), a treatment that depletes hypothalamic opiomelanocorticotropin-derived peptides without altering their pituitary and circulating concentration. Oxytocin effect was strongly reduced by hypophysectomy, but not by neonatal MSG. Testosterone replacement (50 micrograms/kg/day for 23 days) partially reversed the effect of hypophysectomy on penile erection, but not on yawning. The present results suggest that oxytocin does not induce penile erection and yawning by releasing an ACTH-derived peptide from hypothalamic opiomelanotropinergic neurons, and that the pituitary gland exerts a permissive role on the expression of the above behavioural responses induced by oxytocin.
The effects of nine central 5-HT antagonists on food intake in free feeding male rats were examined. The 5-HT2 antagonists ritanserin and ketanserin and the selective 5-HT3 antagonists ICS 205-930 and MDL 72222 had no effect on food intake. In contrast, the non-selective 5-HT antagonists metergoline, methiothepin, mesulergine, mianserin and methysergide (all of which have high affinity for various 5-HT1 receptor subtypes), dose-dependently increased food intake during a 4-h daytime test. Furthermore, metergoline dose dependently increased food intake over a 24-h period. Surprisingly, mesulergine decreased food intake over a 24-h period at the same doses that increased daytime food intake. This may indicate that the increase in daytime feeding produced by mesulergine is a non-specific response. Although the antagonists used have varying degrees of selectivity for 5-HT receptor subtypes, the pattern of results suggests that postsynaptic 5-HT1 receptors (possibly of the 5-HT1C type) play an important role in the control of feeding in rats.
The major objective of the experiments reported in this paper was to qualitatively test the hypothesis that rabbit retinal ganglion cells survive optic nerve transection and entubulation repair of the proximal optic nerve stump. The optic nerve of rabbits was transected immediately behind the globe, and a 1-cm length of a Type I collagen nerve guide tube was sutured onto the short proximal stump. The nerve guide was either left empty or was filled with a Type I collagen gel (Vitrogen, Collagen Corp.). Following 8-12 weeks survival time, the animals were sacrificed and the retinae were prepared as whole mounts and processed for immunocytochemistry using an antibody which selectively labels the retinal ganglion cells. Although no formal cell counts were carried out, the animals which received Vitrogen within the nerve guide showed a qualitative enhancement of retinal ganglion cell survival compared to the group with the nerve guide alone. The results suggest that specific manipulations of the central nervous system microenvironment may enhance neuronal survival following axonal transection.
A new case of painful legs and moving toes syndrome is reported in a patient with a neuropathy due to high-doses of cytosine arabinoside (Ara C). A few cases of this complication have been reported. The neuropathy was sensory, axonal, and incompletely regressive. Carbamazepine had a dramatic effect on pain and involuntary movements.
Brodmann, an anatomically orientated neuropsychiatrist, is one of the most influential cortical localizationists. His comparative studies and brain maps are still fundamental for the descriptive anatomy of the cortex. Brodmann made his main contributions while working at the brain research institute of Oskar Vogt in Berlin (1901-1910). Due to unfavourable circumstances he was unable to extend his findings much further. We recount his biography on the basis of new source material, recently collected through a memorial archive in his hometown in south-west Germany. Modern methods have corroborated Brodmann's concept of cortical parcellation into &quot;areae&quot;--although their function is still largely unknown.


Adult female mice were adrenalectomized and ovariectomized and the concentration of Type I and Type II receptors in whole brain, kidney, and liver cytosol determined at various time thereafter by incubation with [3H]aldosterone (+ RU 26988 to prevent binding to Type II receptors) or [3H]dexamethasone, respectively. Type I receptor binding in brain was found to undergo a dramatic biphasic up-regulation, with levels six times that of intact levels by 24 h post-surgery and a doubling again by 4-8 days post-surgery. By 16 days, however, Type I specific binding had returned to intact levels. Similar, but less dramatic fluctuations were seen in kidney and liver, whereas much smaller fluctuations were seen for Type II receptors in all three tissues. In a follow-up study with Scatchard analyses we observed a similar transient up- and down-regulation in maximal binding for Type I, and to a lesser extent Type II receptors in all three tissues. As expected, the apparent binding affinity for both receptors increased after surgical removal of competing endogenous steroids. Radioimmunoassays revealed that plasma concentrations of corticosterone were reduced to near undetectable levels by 24 h post-surgery. A direct comparison of male and female mice revealed no sex-related differences in Type I receptor binding capacity fluctuations in brain cytosol after adrenalectomy-gonadectomy. Lastly, treatment with exogenous aldosterone or corticosterone was found to prevent adrenalectomy-gonadectomy-induced up-regulation of Type I and, to a lesser extent, Type II receptors in brain. Somewhat surprisingly, the potency of these two adrenocorticosteroids appeared to be very similar for both receptor types.
The great anatomist Albert von Koelliker (1817-1905) from Wrzburg played an essential role in the histology of nervous tissue and in the development of the neuron theory in particular. He was among the first to appreciate the silver chromate method for staining nerve cells developed by Camillo Golgi and to accept and confirm the results of the neurohistological investigations presented by Santiago Ramn y Cajal with a modified technique of the Golgi method. Koelliker gave his unstinted support to both scientists whom he introduced into the international scientific community of the late 19th century. Though in the controversy about the organization of the nervous tissue Koelliker supported Cajal's view of a neuronal organization in contrast to Golgi's idea of a reticular organization, he remained a close friend to both scientists and even went all out for a nomination of Golgi for the Nobel-Prize for Physiology or Medicine.
We have examined the effects of intracerebroventricular administration of corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) (5.25 nmol in 10 microliters of saline) on glucose utilization, an index of cerebral function, in 65 anatomically discrete regions of rat brain by using the 14C-2-deoxyglucose quantitative autoradiographic technique. CRF administration increased plasma glucose concentrations with a temporal onset and magnitude of response similar to those previously reported. CRF differentially affected glucose utilization (GU) in discrete regions of rat brain. Consonant with the hypophysiotropic role for CRF, pronounced increases in GU were seen in median eminence and lateral nucleus of the hypothalamus. CRF also increased GU in brain regions implicated in mediating responses to stress including locus coeruleus and median raphe nucleus. In contrast, reductions in GU were observed in prefrontal cortex and nucleus accumbens. Punctate increases in GU were noted in the cerebellar cortex. Furthermore, large increases in GU occurred in vermis, inferior olive, and red nucleus substantiating a neurotransmitter role for CRF in the olivocerebellar pathway. Additional brain areas showing significant alterations in GU in response to CRF included anteroventral, anterior pretectal, and posterolateral nuclei of the thalamus, fornix, dorsal tegmental nucleus, spinal trigeminal nucleus, and cuneate nucleus. These data demonstrating regional changes in GU in response to CRF administration further elucidate the neuroanatomical substrates underlying the actions of CRF in brain and support the role of this neuropeptide in coordinating responses to stress.
Three excitatory synaptic inputs to hippocampal CA3 neurons--the mossy fibers, Schaffer collateral/commissural fibers, and fimbrial fibers--were determined to be separate and independent in the pharmacologically disinhibited in vitro slice. Long-term synaptic potentiation (LTP) was induced in one of these three synaptic inputs, and subsequent synaptic efficacy changes in the other two nontetanized inputs were characterized using current and voltage clamp techniques. LTP in the mossy fiber input was accompanied by potentiation of Schaffer and fimbrial responses, whereas the induction of LTP in the Schaffer pathway was associated with the potentiation of fimbria responses and a depression of mossy fiber responses. LTP induced in the fimbrial response was confined to that input alone.
3H-GBR 12935 was used to label the digitonin-solubilized dopamine transporter from dog caudate nucleus. Specific binding to soluble fractions was observed in dog caudate but was absent in rat cerebellum. Binding to the solubilized transporter sites was saturable and of high affinity (Bmax = 2.57 +/- 0.60 pmol/mg protein, KD = 23.42 +/- 2.24 nM, n = 4). Heating or addition of trypsin abolished specific binding in the soluble fractions. In competition studies, soluble 3H-GBR 12935 binding was inhibited by mazindol, GBR 12909, nomifensine, dimethocaine, dopamine, (-) cocaine, and (+) cocaine in a manner typical of binding to the dopamine transporter. As expected, tomoxetine and citalopram, inhibitors of norepinephrine and serotonin uptake, respectively, were weak competitors of 3H-GBR 12935 binding.
Cholecystokinin, (CCK) 1-400 ng, significantly potentiated the hypolocomotion induced by dopamine, when simultaneously microinjected bilaterally into the ventral tegmental area (VTA) of rat brain. Within this dose range, CCK had no effect alone on ambulatory locomotion. Topographical analysis indicated that the modulatory effect of CCK was greatest in the central and caudal regions of the VTA, and absent at sites lateral, dorsal, rostral, and caudal to the VTA. Pharmacological analysis indicated that both unsulfated CCK octapeptide (100 ng) and the C-terminal tetrapeptide of CCK (400 ng) potentiated dopamine-induced hypolocomotion in a manner identical with sulfated CCK octapeptide (100 ng). Proglumide, an antagonist of the peripheral-type CCK receptor, did not block the potentiating actions of CCK, at doses of proglumide up to 500 mg/kg i.p., or 100 micrograms into the ventral tegmental area. L-364,718, an antagonist of the peripheral-type CCK receptor with lesser affinity for the central-type CCK receptor, blocked the potentiating actions of CCK at relatively high doses of L-364,718 (1-10 mg/kg i.p.). These findings suggest that CCK acts as a facilitatory modulator of dopamine at a central-type CCK receptor on the A10 cell bodies.
Vasopressin (prepropressophysin) mRNA is detected in neurons of the supraoptic, suprachiasmatic, and paraventricular nuclei of human postmortem hypothalamic specimens by quantitated in situ hybridization using 35S-labeled single-stranded cDNA probes directed against exon C of the human vasopressin gene. This hybridization displays the anticipated anatomic distribution, as well as several biochemical features supporting its specificity. Hybridization densities in supraoptic neurons, a measure of vasopressin gene expression, display substantial variability from brain-to-brain. We can attribute much of this brain-to-brain variability to differences in antemortem extracellular volume status. This conclusion is based on a) animal models of the human postmortem process, b) animal models of common agonal events, c) good correlations between antemortem volume status and neuronal vasopressin mRNA hybridization densities in human postmortem specimens matched for age and postmortem interval, and d) our inability to correlate human neuronal vasopressin mRNA hybridization densities with other clinical and postmortem features. These results provide an example of antemortem regulation of a human neuroendocrine gene using postmortem tissue.
This article reviews studies of the formation of synaptic junctions in the vertebrate central nervous system. It is focused on electron microscopic investigations of synaptogenesis, although insights from other disciplines are interwoven where appropriate, as are findings from developing peripheral and invertebrate nervous systems. The first part of the review is concerned with the morphological maturation of synapses as described from both qualitative and quantitative perspectives. Next, epigenetic influences on synaptogenesis are examined, and later in the article the concept of epigenesis is integrated with that of hierarchy. It is suggested that the formation of synaptic junctions may take place as an ordered progression of epigenetically modulated events wherein each level of cellular affinity becomes subordinate to the one that follows. The ultimate determination of whether a synapse is maintained, modified or dissolved would be made by the changing molecular fabric of its junctional membranes. In closing, a hypothetical model of synaptogenesis is proposed, and an hierarchial order of events is associated with a speculative synaptogenic sequence. Key elements of this hypothesis are 1) epigenetic factors that facilitate generally appropriate interactions between neurites; 2) independent expression of surface specializations that contain sufficient information for establishing threshold recognition between interacting neurites; 3) exchange of molecular information that biases the course of subsequent junctional differentiation and ultimately results in 4) the stabilization of synaptic junctions into functional connectivity patterns.
Activity of hippocampal neurons was recorded in a dissociated culture under patch-clamp conditions. Excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic currents (PSCs) were evoked in response to short pulse application of glutamate to other neurons in the culture dish. These PSCs were suppressed by topical application of acetylcholine (ACh) near the recorded neuron. The dose-dependent effect of the muscarinic antagonist pirenzepine indicates that the effect of ACh is mediated by an M2 receptor. ACh did not affect inward current responses to direct application of glutamate onto postsynaptic neurons. This indicates that ACh may interfere with the release process and not with the postsynaptic response to the neurotransmitter. In some cells, ACh reduced inward Ca currents recorded in the presence of Na and K channel blockers. This effect was atropine sensitive and may underly the reduced PSCs. It is suggested that ACh modulates release of neurotransmitters by reducing presynaptic Ica and thereby reducing evoked PSCs.
Calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase type II, a multimeric 550-650 kilodalton enzyme composed of major alpha (50 kilodalton) and beta/beta' (60/58 kilodalton) subunits, is present in high concentrations in mammalian brain. Previous immunocytochemical studies indicated that the enzyme is enriched in cell bodies and dendrites, but did not show a clear-cut localization in nerve terminals. The present study presents evidence, using lesion-induced degenerations of pre- and postsynaptic neuronal populations in the neostriatum and substantia nigra, that calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II, as measured both by autophosphorylation of enzyme subunits and by synapsin I kinase activity, is present in high concentrations in several populations of presynaptic terminals. Lesions of the corticostriatal tract decreased the amount of enzyme by 30-40% in the neostriatum, a decrease similar to that seen in the same region of synapsin I, a general nerve terminal marker. Lesions of the striatonigral tract induced an even more pronounced decrease of the enzyme in the substantia nigra; this decrease was larger than the lesion-induced change of synapsin I seen in the same region. Our data therefore indicate that certain nerve terminal populations in the rat brain contain high levels of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II.
Recent findings have demonstrated the existence of dopaminergic (DA) markers in the nbM of the human brain and a reduction of these markers in both the nbM and the striatum of patients suffering from Alzheimer's disease (AD). To investigate the source of the DA synaptic markers found in the nbM, rats received unilateral 6-OHDA lesions of the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc). The SNc lesions caused significant reductions in DA and DOPAC but not HVA in the nbM and the striatum; 3H-sulpiride binding to D2 receptors ipsilateral to the SNc lesion was significantly increased in the striatum (16%), consistent with denervation supersensitivity, but single-point analysis showed no significant changes in the nbM. These data suggest that the decreases in DA and 3H-spiperone binding levels observed in the nbM of AD patients may be due to partial destruction of DA nbM afferent projections from the brainstem.
The formation and development of the dorsal longitudinal flight muscles of the butterfly Pieris brassicae L have been studied by electron and light microscopy. These imaginal muscles arise from two symmetrical pairs of mesothoracic larval muscles, which are morphologically indistinguishable from the other wall muscles at the beginning of the 5th larval instar. However, 2 days before the end of this instar an accumulation of myoblasts is observed at the median region of these muscle fibres. The muscle fibres are penetrated by the myoblasts and broken into fragments. Progressive dedifferentiation of the larval fibrillar material in each of the muscle fragments is observed during the first days of the pupal development. The myoblasts within the basal lamina of the original larval muscle fibres remain associated with the muscle fragments. Myoblasts then fuse with the larval muscle fragments, which simultaneously fuse with each other. This results in the formation of rudimentary imaginal muscle fibres. The development of these fibres, particularly myofibrillogenesis, is studied until the emergence of the imago.

A large population of amacrine cells in the retina are thought to use GABA as an inhibitory neurotransmitter in their synaptic interactions within the inner plexiform layer. However, little is known about their synaptic targets; the neurons that express the receptors for GABA have not been clearly identified. Recently, the GABAA receptor has been isolated and antibodies have been raised against it. These antibodies have proven useful for the immunocytochemical localization of the receptor, and two brief reports describing the distribution of GABAA receptor immunoreactivity in the retina have appeared (Richards et al., 1987; Mariani et al., 1987). We used a monoclonal antibody (62-3G1) against the GABAA receptor to study the retina of the New World primate Saimiri sciureus. Labeled somata were found in the inner nuclear layer (INL) and ganglion cell layer (GCL). The staining was confined to what appeared to be the cell's plasmalemma and small cytoplasmic granules. Most of the labeled neurons in the INL had small somata (5-7 microns in diameter) located at the vitreal edge of the layer. They arborized in two laminae (approximately 2 and 4) of inner plexiform layer (IPL). Ventral to the optic disc (2.5 mm) they comprised 29% of the cells present. A few of the labeled neurons appeared to be interplexiform cells or flat bipolar cells, with labeled processes that extended into both the IPL and the inner half of the outer plexiform layer. In the GCL, the labeled somata were among the largest present (13-20 microns in diameter), and 2.5 mm ventral to the optic disc they made up 15% of the cells present. Experiments in which immunoreactive somata were retrogradely labeled following the injection of fluorescent tracers into the optic tract provided a conclusive demonstration that some of the immunoreactive somata were ganglion cells. The antibody often labeled their axons in the optic fiber layer. This suggests that the GABAA receptors are transported anterogradely to the retinal terminal fields. The dendrites of the immunoreactive ganglion cells extended into the 2 laminae of labeled processes in the IPL, and their primary dendritic arbors were, at any given eccentricity, quite similar in appearance. This homogeneity suggests that they comprise a particular subset of the ganglion cells. Sections simultaneously labeled with the monoclonal antibody against the GABAA receptor and antisera against either L-glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) or GABA revealed that the GAD/GABA was distributed much more widely in the IPL than the GABAA receptor.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

The spatial region involved in vernier acuity (integration region) was behaviorally determined in cats and compared with published human data and cortical scaling parameters for the two species. Integration region was estimated from vernier thresholds obtained with: (1) gaps of various sizes between the contiguous ends of the offset contours (gap effects); and (2) irrelevant contours placed at various distances from the vernier offset (interference effects). The gap studies showed that thresholds decreased as the gap grew from 0 to 4-7 min but then increased progressively with separations greater than 7 min. In the interference studies, thresholds were increased 2-6 times when the irrelevant contours were located within 40 min of the offset. Comparing these data with available human measures showed large species differences. Converting the interference distances for both species into cortical distances using published estimates of cortical magnification factor did not resolve the discrepancy. However, a comparison of the cat data with published human data, taken at an eccentricity at which the estimated human cortical magnification factor equals that of the cat, i.e. 7 deg, showed the effects of gap size and interference distance on vernier thresholds to be remarkably similar between the two species. This similarity supports the hypothesis that positional acuity depends upon mechanisms in striate cortex, and also suggests that such acuity may be mediated by a generic neural mechanism common to mammals.
We have used antibodies raised against a cytoskeletal protein, microtubule-associated protein 1A (MAP 1A), to stain adult rat retina. In cryostat and polyethylene glycol-embedded radial sections, the fiber layer, ganglion cell layer, and inner plexiform layer were highly immunoreactive, a finding that suggested that the ganglion cell somata, axons, and dendrites were recognized by these antibodies. Retrograde labeling of retinal cell somata from the superior colliculus and dorso-lateral geniculate nucleus to identify ganglion cells showed colocalization of the tracer and immunoreactive cells. Double labeling with nuclear stains revealed that many cells in the ganglion cell layer, which are likely displaced amacrine cells, were not recognized by these antibodies. Furthermore, transection of ganglion cell axons, a procedure that causes retrograde degeneration of many of the axotomized ganglion cells, led to a decrease in the number of anti-MAP 1A immunoreactive cells in retinal wholemounts. Thus, MAP 1A antibodies preferentially stain ganglion cell somata and dendrites but not amacrine cells. These antibodies should be useful ganglion cell markers.
The latencies of trans-synaptic responses in cells of the striate cortex, following electrical stimulation in the superior colliculus, were evaluated to assess the possible path taken by the neural signal. Most of the recorded striate neurons were judged to be driven by the signal passing back along the axons and then into the collaterals of cortico-tectal cells in lamina 5. The present results indicate that striate neurons, in communicating with the superior colliculus, at the same time, send signals via their collaterals to neighbouring cells in lamina 5 which appear to have similar C or complex receptive fields.
Single striate cortical neurones were recorded from adult cats, lightly anaesthetized with N2O/O2/halothane. The receptive fields for the dominant eye were subjected to direction-specific adaptation by a square-wave grating of optimal spatial frequency and velocity, drifting continuously in each neurone's preferred direction. Recovery of the neural motion after-effect induced by prior adaptation was assessed with the same grating pattern which now moved alternately in the preferred and opposite directions. In controls the same tests for recovery followed a period of exposure to a uniform field of identical luminance to the adapting grating. Three sets of measurements were made to establish whether the adaptation was orientation- as well as direction-specific. In the first, test grating orientation was maintained constant and optimal for each neurone whilst adapting orientation was systematically varied. In the second, test orientation was varied whilst maintaining adapting orientation constant. In the third set, adapting and test orientations were initially fixed at each neurone's optimum; they were next set, non-optimally to one side of the optimum. Results from the latter configuration were compared with similar tests in which the test grating remained at that non-optimal orientation whilst the orientation of the adapting grating was now altered to a new point on the other flank of each neurone's orientation tuning curve that was matched for strength of adaptation. Thus the degree of adaptation was identical in each case, but zero orientation difference between adapting and test gratings in one case was contrasted with a substantial orientation difference in the other. The results from all three sets of data were unequivocal: in simple neurones, and in standard and intermediate classes of complex neurones, but not in special complex neurones, the sequential effects of adapting gratings on the responses and sensitivity to subsequently presented test gratings were maximal when their orientations were matched and optimal for each neurone, less marked when orientations were matched but non-optimal. In conclusion, adaptation induced by pattern motion was orientation- as well as direction-specific only in standard (length summating) and intermediate complex neurones, and in simple cells; in special complex neurones it was not.
The brief presentation in the peripheral field of two closely spaced luminous point stimuli, in rapid sequence, induces the illusion of a single dot moving over an extended path. This fine-grain movement illusion (FGMI) is particularly compelling under conditions of dark adaptation. The strength of the motion percept, assessed by a rating-scale procedure, was found to correlate well, over different flash-flash onset delays, with an objective measure of the illusion requiring discrimination of the direction of the flash-flash sequence. A direction-discrimination measure was used to determine the minimum dot separation that would reliably elicit an FGMI at retinal eccentricities of 5-25 deg. For comparison, measures of static spatial acuity was made based on the minimum angle of resolution of two simultaneous dot flashes, and on the threshold for discriminating the separation of two simultaneous dot flashes with variable initial spacing. The spatial threshold for FGMI was lower than that for each of the static measures at all peripheral eccentricities, and it increased more slowly with eccentricity than the other spatial thresholds, suggesting the involvement of separate visual pathways for generating percepts of motion and percepts of shape or location. The finding that in the periphery the grain for motion detection was finer than that for spatial discrimination constrains a class of motion-perception models that form an initial spatial description of the stimulus and then compute a temporal derivative.
In a subset of 327 simple and complex cells from the striate cortex of cats anaesthetized with N2O/O2/halothane, a range of receptive field properties were compared. These included directional and orientational selectivity, tuning and symmetry; endstopping; receptive field dimensions; length summation; texture sensitivity; ocular dominance; and resting discharge levels. These properties were related to neuronal class (simple or complex) and to the special, intermediate and standard subdivisions of the complex cell category. Special complex cells showed a high incidence of direction selectivity, were less sharply tuned for orientation, more commonly endstopped, more strongly binocular, tended to have higher resting discharge levels and exhibited greater sensitivity to motion of randomly textured patterns than the other classes of neurones. The remaining classes of complex cells, together with simple cells, were more commonly direction-biased or bidirectional, and more selective for orientation than special complex cells. Standard complex cells were marginally more symmetrically tuned for orientation than the other groups. Simple cells represented the most sharply orientation tuned neurones in the cortex; unlike complex cells of all groups they were insensitive to texture motion, generally had lower levels of maintained discharge, and showed least integration of inputs between the two eyes. Assessed by appropriate measures (minimum response fields in special complex cells; length summation in standard complex cells), standard complex cells had significantly larger receptive fields than special complex cells.



A complementary DNA clone corresponding to the 70 kDa subunit of soluble guanylate cyclase (EC 4.6.1.2) of rat lung has been isolated. The primary structure of the cDNA consisted of 3063 nucleotides including a 1857-nucleotide coding region for 619 amino acids, and the calculated molecular weight was 70476. Blot hybridization of total poly(A)+RNAs from rat tissues detected a mRNA of about 3.4 kilobases. The amount of mRNA was abundant in lung, cerebrum and cerebellum, moderate in heart and kidney, and low in liver and muscle. Southern blot analysis of high molecular weight genomic DNA from rat liver indicated the presence of one gene in the rat haploid genome. The amino acid sequence of the 70 kDa subunit has partial homology with particulate guanylate cyclase from sea-urchin sperm, and protein phosphatase inhibitor I.
Two cellular retinoic acid binding proteins, CRABP I and II, which behaved differently on a DEAE-cellulose column, were purified from 14-day chick embryos. Their molecular weights were 15.8 kDa and 16.2 kDa, respectively. NH2-terminal 36 amino acid sequence of CRABP I was identical to that of bovine CRABP, which was reported previously. CRABP II was a novel cellular retinoic acid binding protein, in which the amino acids at 6 positions of the NH2 terminal sequence are different from those in CRABP I. The homology between CRABP I and II was more than 83%.
A new approach to high-resolution 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2DG) emulsion-autoradiography which combines improved retention of 2DG labeling, staining with immunohistochemical and other specific markers, and automated data collection and analysis of local silver grain and stain densities is described. The Durham et al. (J. Neurosci. 1:519-526, '81) procedure for fixation of 2DG with periodate-lysine-paraformaldehyde (PLP, McLean and Nakane: J. Histochem. Cytochem. 22:1077-1083, '74) was adapted to increase retained label roughly tenfold. Phenobarbital anesthesia is induced 45 minutes after 2DG injection. Barbiturate anesthesia increases brain glycogen (Nelson et al.: J. Neurochem. 15:1271-1279, '68) and presumably increases the incorporation of intracellular 2DG from 2DG-6P into brain glycogen and other molecules (Nelson et al.: J. Neurochem. 43:949-956, '84; Pentreath et al.: Neuroscience 7:759-767, '82). Iodoacetate is added to cold fixative to prevent glycogen breakdown (Cammermeyer and Fenton: Histochemistry 76:339-356, '82). This high-resolution 2DG protocol is directly compatible with many other neuroanatomical techniques. We demonstrate 2DG emulsion autoradiography combined with cytochrome oxidase (CO) histochemistry, markers for axonal pathway tracing, plastic embedding for semithin sections, and immunohistochemical staining for glutamate decarboxylase (GAD). The method should be compatible with antibodies for other antigens and with other neuroanatomical stains. To collect the data directly from microscope slides, a computer-controlled microscope was integrated with image-processing software to eliminate the need for manual counting and scoring of autoradiograms. Regions of interest are scanned automatically at high resolution to map regional labeling and/or stain density. There is excellent correspondence between computer-enhanced two-dimensional maps of the data and the original autoradiograms. Automated counts for five specimens were compared to counts of labeled cells by trained observer. The correlation between the two sets of measurements is high (r = .93). Automated data collection has been generalized to measure regional stain densities on the autoradiographed sections for direct comparison with silver grain density. The method is extremely flexible, especially since new image-processing strategies can be developed in software to extract the desired information from materials labeled by other methods (e.g., HRP).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Fetal rat (E17-E19) septal neurons were cultured in a defined, serum-free medium for 6-8 days with or without nerve growth factor (NGF) and transplanted into the hippocampus or the surrounding ventricle of 28 adult rats denervated of its septal input by a fimbria-fornix transection. The cholinergic septal neurons, which were visualized by acetylcholinesterase (AChE) histochemistry, always survived in transplantation to the adult brains from nearly pure neuronal cultures. Although choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity of septal neurons in culture was greatly increased (5.59-fold) by the addition of NGF to the defined medium, this ChAT induction appeared to have little effect on the subsequent survival or growth of the septal neurons after transplantation. These results demonstrate that survival of cultured fetal septal cholinergic neurons following transplantation is not dependent upon the presence of NGF or serum- or glia-derived factors during the preliminary culture. Postnatal rat (P4) septal neurons cultured for 5 days in serum-containing medium with NGF were also successfully transplanted in one of 3 cases.
The expression of phosphorylated neurofilaments (PNF) epitopes in hippocampal neurons was examined in 5 cases of Alzheimer's disease and 12 brains of schizophrenic patients. A control group (n = 17) consisted of 5 brains of patients with other acute or chronic neurologic disorders and 12 brains of persons who were free of any known neurologic disease. Immunocytochemistry with monoclonal antibodies to PNF was done on formalin-fixed, paraffin sections of hippocampus. Adjacent sections were impregnated with silver. Immunoreactivity to PNF was observed in tangles and plaques of the Alzheimer's brains and also in hippocampal pyramidal cells in 6 of the 12 schizophrenic brains and in 9 of the 17 control brains (2 with neurological disorders and 7 with non-neurological diseases). The positive PNF-stained cell bodies, in silver impregnated sections, generally did not show evident neurofibrillary abnormalities. Enzymatic dephosphorylation prior to immunostaining abolished PNF reactivity. These results suggest the widespread occurrence and relative non-specificity of perikaryonal PNF immunoreactivity in human post mortem brain tissue. We could not exclude the possibility that the hippocampal and brainstem neurons are predilection sites for normal perikaryonal phosphorylation in human brain.
To investigate the circadian system of the golden hamster, multiple unit activity (MUA) was recorded inside and outside the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). MUA inside the SCN showed a daily rhythm with a daytime peak during a 24 h light-dark cycle (LD, 12:12), whereas MUA outside the SCN revealed a nighttime peak. The phase reversal of MUA between inside and outside the SCN in the golden hamster was similar to the rat which is also a nocturnal rodent. MUA rhythms to the lighting cycle started to freerun after methamphetamine administration. This result indicates that methamphetamine may affect directly the neural circadian oscillator to induce behavioral change.
In the neuromuscular synapse of lobster walking leg, application of glutamate and its agonists generated transient depolarization of the postsynaptic membrane. The order of potency was quisqualate greater than glutamate greater than kainate. NMDA was inactive on lobster muscle. However, the membrane of Xenopus oocytes injected with mRNA from lobster muscle acquired sensitivity to NMDA. The order of potency for inducing current responses in the oocyte membrane was kainate greater than glutamate = NMDA much greater than quisqualate. The results suggest that mRNAs coding for glutamate receptors in the lobster muscle are expressed differently in Xenopus oocyte membrane.
The present study provides detailed anatomical evidence that the strongly texture-sensitive complex neurones of the cat's striate cortex constitute a discrete subset of all complex neurones, and lie in two bands, deep in lamina III and in lamina V. Physiological properties of simple and complex striate cortical neurones were characterized extracellularly in lightly anaesthetized cats by use of micropipettes filled with 12% Fast Green FCF dye in 2.0 M sodium chloride. Complex neurones were further subdivided on the basis of their length-summating properties for an optimally oriented bar into &quot;standard,&quot; &quot;special,&quot; or &quot;intermediate&quot; categories and on the basis of their tuning and degree of sensitivity to motion of random texture. Extracellular dye marks were made at strategic locations along each microelectrode track, especially at the site of recording from strongly texture-sensitive complex neurones. Tracks were reconstructed with the aid of the histologically recovered dye marks in sections counterstained with cresyl violet to reveal cortical lamination. The results confirm and refine the inference made by Hammond and MacKay (Exp. Brain Res. 22:427-430, '75; Exp. Brain Res. 30:275-296, '77) and the gross observations from 2-deoxyglucose uptake studies by Wagner, Hoffmann, and Zwerger (Brain Res. 224:31-43, '81) concerning the laminar distribution of texture-sensitive complex neurones in the cat's striate cortex.
Tyrosine-specific protein phosphorylation has been implicated in the regulation of cell transformation and proliferation. However, recent studies have shown that the expression of protein tyrosine kinases in adult brain is very high, suggesting that tyrosine-specific protein phosphorylation may also have a role in the regulation of neuronal function. Although a number of substrate proteins are phosphorylated on tyrosine residues, the functional alteration of proteins by tyrosine phosphorylation has previously been convincingly demonstrated only for protein tyrosine kinases. The nicotinic acetylcholine receptor, a neurotransmitter-gated ion channel, is phosphorylated by a protein tyrosine kinase in post-synaptic membranes in vitro and in vivo. We demonstrate here that this tyrosine phosphorylation increases the rate of the rapid phase of desensitization of the nicotinic receptor, as measured by single channel recording of purified nicotinic acetylcholine receptor, when reconstituted in lipid vesicles. These data provide direct evidence for the regulation of ion channel properties by tyrosine phosphorylation. The results, which demonstrate a functional role of tyrosine phosphorylation in the nervous system, suggest a widespread role for tyrosine phosphorylation in neuronal signal transduction.
The coupling of the muscarinic receptor to the inhibition of the adenylate cyclase system was studied in adult rat cortical tissue dissociated by teasing tissue minces through finely meshed Nitex filters. The intracellular ATP stores in the final preparation were metabolically prelabeled with [3H]adenine and the [3H]cAMP formed in the tissue was isolated by ion exchange chromatography. Forskolin (3-30 microM) elevated [3H]cAMP levels 5- to 9-fold over basal in the preparation, with maximum stimulation achieved by 10-15 min. In the dissociated cortex, carbachol inhibited forskolin-elevated [3H]cAMP levels with an EC50 value of 1.4 microM; maximal inhibition was in the range of 20-30%. Atropine completely blocked the response (Ki = 1.8 nM), which showed that carbachol stimulates a muscarinic receptor to inhibit [3H]cAMP levels in this preparation. Pirenzepine, an M1-selective antagonist, blocked the response to carbachol with low potency (Ki = 467 nM), which indicated that an M2 muscarinic receptor subtype mediates [3H]cAMP inhibition in the cortex. The response to 10 microM carbachol was not affected by 10 mM EGTA, 50 microM D-tubocurarine, or 100 nM tetrodotoxin; thus, activation of nicotinic receptors or a neuronal release process was not involved. [3H]cAMP reduction in response to muscarinic stimulation was also observed in dissociated tissue prepared from other brain regions. A robust response was encountered in striatal preparations (maximal inhibition 40%), while hippocampal responses were smaller and less reproducible than in the cortex. The striatal response was shown to be pharmacologically similar to the cortical response.
An in vivo radioligand binding assay for the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor channel complex in the mouse brain has been developed using the non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist [3H]MK-801. In vivo binding of [3H]MK-801 was displaced by MK-801 (ED50 = 0.17 mg/kg i.p.), (-)-MK-801 (1.0 mg/kg), thienylcyclohexylpiperidine (1.8 mg/kg), etoxadrol (5.1 mg/kg) and (+)-SKF 10,047 (34.5 mg/kg). The potency of these drugs in this in vivo binding assay was highly correlated (r = 0.97) with their functional effects as antagonists of N-methyl-DL-aspartate-induced tonic convulsions.
Dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons, in 22 degrees C tissue culture containing nerve growth factor, taken from normal and trisomy 21 human fetal tissues, were subjected to current and voltage clamp measurements using a tight-seal whole-cell recording technique. Measurements were made between 1 and 2 weeks in culture, when the electrical properties of both neuron groups were shown to be constant and when mean values for passive electrical parameters did not differ significantly between groups. The duration of the action potential was significantly less in trisomic than in control neurons, and both depolarization and repolarization were accelerated. Tetraethylammonium (5 mM), which partially blocked outward currents, prolonged the rate of repolarization of the action potential in both neuron groups, and abolished the difference in the rate between the groups. Furthermore, the activation rate constants of two model-defined outward potassium currents were significantly higher in trisomic than in control neurons, suggesting that acceleration of repolarization of the action potential in trisomic neurons was due to shorter activation time-constants of outward potassium currents.
Male, Fischer-344 rats received bilateral injections of colchicine (2.0 micrograms/site) into the dorsal and ventral hippocampus to destroy dentate gyrus granule cells. Colchicine impaired the ability of rats to learn a brightness discrimination, active avoidance task in a Y-maze. Acquisition was measured in 120-trial sessions given once weekly for 3 or 4 weeks. In a second experiment, colchicine-treated rats were tested in a modified procedure in which only the tone warning stimulus and a light directional cue were presented; shock was not presented. Colchicine-treated rats showed an enhanced response bias under these conditions, selecting to go to the unlighted arm with a greater frequency than the control rats whenever the tone and light were activated. These data are consistent with other reports indicating that rats with hippocampal lesions are impaired in the acquisition of a simultaneous discrimination if a response bias exists to one of the choices.
To assess the occurrence and related features of motor vehicle crashes in patients with dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT) we studied 30 patients who had been followed longitudinally and 20 healthy age-matched control subjects. Data were gathered from first-degree relatives who had lived with the subjects for the previous 5 years or more. Forty-seven percent of the DAT patients incurred at least one crash while they were driving, whereas only 10% of the control subjects had had a crash in the previous 5 years. The odds ratio for crashes in the DAT group was 7.9 (p less than 0.01). Moreover, in 77% of DAT patients, a deterioration in driving performance was noted, and 63% of the patients had stopped driving. However, only 42% of the DAT patients who stopped driving did so before a crash occurred. Mean illness duration was 4.0 (+/- 1.8) years, and the mean Mini-Mental Status Examination score was 19.9 (+/- 6.3) at the time of the first crash in the DAT group. The occurrence of crashes was not significantly correlated with dementia severity or with disease duration. These data suggest that the occurrence of driving crashes in patients with DAT is an important public health problem.
Acetylcholinesterase-rich pyramidal neurons in the human association neocortex and hippocampal formation are virtually absent early in life, become established by adolescence, and appear to increase in density during adulthood and perhaps even senescence. Analogous neurons are not detectable in the adult monkey brain. This novel class of neurons may represent a uniquely human adaptation in primate evolution and may provide a neuroanatomical substrate for the mental development that occurs during the adult stages of life. These phylogenetically and ontogenetically progressive neurons are also markedly vulnerable to degeneration in Alzheimer's disease.
Thirteen of 15 patients with complex I deficiency had the multisystemic form, with strokelike episodes and other symptoms that fulfilled the diagnostic requirements for MELAS (mitochondrial myopathy, encephalopathy, lactic acidosis, and strokelike episodes), and 2 had only muscle fatigability and weakness, having the purely myopathic form. In the multisystemic form, 12 patients had ragged-red fibers. All multisystemic patients had myopathic histochemical abnormalities that consisted of mild to moderate variation in fiber size, disorganized intermyofibrillar networks, type 2 fiber atrophy, and an increased number of type 2C fibers. Five of 13 multisystemic patients had decreased cytochrome c oxidase (CCO) activity in extrafusal fibers, with sparing of intrafusal muscle fibers. In the myopathic form, pathological findings were similar to those in the multisystemic form. In addition to complex I and NADH dehydrogenase activities being decreased, the CCO activity was significantly decreased (less than 50% of control value) in 8 patients, especially when the disease was in its advanced stages, suggesting that CCO enzyme might be secondarily affected as the disease progresses.
The incidence and severity of Space Motion Sickness (SMS) were determined from 24 flights of the Space Shuttle. A standardized questionnaire developed at the NASA-Johnson Space Center (JSC) was administered to all crewmembers postflight during an oral debriefing with the examining flight surgeon. Cases of SMS were graded mild, moderate or severe using criteria developed at the JSC. The incidence of SMS during a first Shuttle flight for 85 crewmembers was 67% (57 cases). There were 26 mild cases (30%), 20 moderate (24%), and 11 severe (13%). Differences were found between males and females, crew positions (Commander, Pilot, Mission Specialist, etc.), and age groups, which were not statistically significant (p greater than 0.05), but would suggest future research into the mechanism, prevention, and treatment of SMS. The 26 crewmembers with a second flight showed a reduction in SMS incidence to 46%, but the change was not significant compared with the first flight. Nine crewmembers (35%) showed a reduction in SMS severity comparing first and second flights, yet there was no significant difference in the mean time between flights for crewmembers with SMS versus asymptomatic crewmembers. Variability in crewmember training and flight experience may explain some of the differences observed.
Four subjects considered resistant to motion sickness were tested in KC-135 parabolic flight to examine ocular torsion at hypo- and hypergravity. Three of these showed no significant torsion at zero G in either the upright position or when tilted 30 degrees to right or left. At 1.8 G in the tilted positions they showed greater ocular counterrolling than at 1 G. None of these three subjects became motion sick. The fourth subject showed eye torsion toward his left in all positions at zero G. This leftward bias could also be seen at 1.8 G when tilted left ear down, the side that induces rightward counterrolling. There he had less eye torsion than at 1 G. This subject became motion sick. All subjects had normal counterrolling in ground-based testing. These results support the hypothesis that asymmetry of the utricular system may be well compensated in the normal 1 G environment, but unmasked in unaccustomed gravitational situations, suggesting a possible predictive test for space adaptation syndrome.
In neuroanatomical tract tracing glass micropipettes are used to make small injections of tracer in the brain. A problem is that, due to the poor visibility of the tip, the tip of a micropipette often breaks during filling with tracer solution. Therefore, a device was developed to enhance the visibility of the tip of glass micropipettes. The device is based on the principle that light of a light emitting diode (LED) is transmitted through the glass of the wall to the tip of a micropipette. Here, light converges and gives a brightly illuminated spot. In this set up micropipettes can be positioned accurately into a vial with tracer solution even without microscopic guidance.
Increases in intraneuronal free calcium result in the rapid, transient, induction of the fos and jun proto-oncogenes. In PC12 cells, induction may be elicited either by membrane depolarization or by direct activation of voltage-dependent calcium channels with BAY K 8644 both of which provoke an influx of calcium. The calmodulin pathway appears to link the elevated intracellular calcium to gene induction. In the brain, c-fos and c-jun may be induced by elevated neuronal activity such as occurs during pentylenetetrazole (PTZ) seizures. The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) form of the glutamate receptor, which can directly gate calcium, plays a role in the induction of c-fos expression in PTZ seizures. In addition, NMDA can directly stimulate c-fos in the brain. Fos and Jun form a noncovalent nucleoprotein complex that binds to the consensus recognition sequence of the AP-1 transcription factor. Thus in a larger picture we envisage Fos and Jun as members of a concerted stimulus-transcription coupling pathway that links alterations in external stimuli to long term adaptive responses. In this context Fos, Jun and the other immediate-early genes should be viewed as third messengers which are regulated by second messengers such as intracellular calcium.
Brainstem auditory evoked responses (BAER) were studied in 20 children with clinically diagnosed and CT-confirmed congenital hydrocephalus before and after shunt surgery. Ninety-five percent of the children showed abnormal responses preoperatively. Prolonged wave V latency was the most common abnormality, followed by increased interwave latencies. Total absence of evoked responses was more common in children with communicating hydrocephalus. Following shunt surgery 50% of cases returned to normal and 20% showed a significant improvement. Abnormalities persisted in 10% of cases. BAER abnormalities referrable to caudal brainstem dysfunction recovered first, following CSF diversion. Study of BAER is useful for identifying physiological brainstem abnormalities in hydrocephalic children and promises to be a sensitive non-invasive diagnostic tool for the detection of &quot;non-infective complications&quot; of shunt surgery, if performed serially during follow up.
In a previous study, we demonstrated the presence of a position-specific antigen (AV-1) in chick limb buds at an early developmental stage. Here, we reported the temporal and spatial expressions and the biochemical characterization of the AV-1 antigen. Indirect immunofluorescence staining and immunoblot analysis clearly showed that the AV-1 antigen is a glycoprotein that is localized on the plasma membrane and that it is expressed from stage 19 and highly expressed at stages 22-26 in some middle-distal to anterior-distal region of limb buds. In the wing bud, at stage 28, the AV-1 antigen was faintly detected in the restricted space between the precartilaginous regions of the radius and the ulna, and those of the metacarpals 2 and 3, but not those of the metacarpals 3 and 4. Such stage-specific and &quot;position-specific&quot; expressions of the AV-1 antigen in limb buds strongly suggest that the AV-1 antigen or cells containing it are involved in determination of the limb pattern formation.
Anterior pituitary corticotropes represent only 9-10% of the mixed pituitary cell population. However, their small size precludes their enrichment because they cannot be separated from the more abundant PRL and GH cells. They can be induced to enlarge by adrenalectomy, and this report describes the separation of larger CRH-responsive corticotropes from a subpopulation of small pituitary cells. The separation was done by counterflow centrifugation in an elutriator containing the Sanderson chamber which was designed to separate small cells under 15 micron in diameter. The corticotropes were initially eluted at flow rates under 30 ml/min along with other cells less than 12.5 micron in diameter. They were then stimulated for 2-4 h with 0.5 nM CRH and reeluted with the use of higher flow rates to separate the enlarged corticotropes from the unstimulated cells. Reelutriation of the entire pool of small cells produced an enrichment to 60% corticotropes in five separate experiments. However, when the pool was divided into smaller cells (eluted at 20 ml/min) and medium-sized cells (eluted at 30 ml/min), and the two pools were reeluted separately, the enrichment increased to over 90% corticotropes in eight separate experiments. These corticotrope populations remained enriched for up to 14 days in culture. They also secreted in a reverse hemolytic plaque assay that recognizes ACTH-(25-39). The dual labels for ACTH and beta-endorphin showed that 60% of the corticotropes stored both peptides, whereas 30% stored only ACTH, and 10% stored only beta-endorphin. No differences in storage patterns were seen when small and medium-sized corticotropes were compared. Thus, these studies present the first report of the production of an enriched fraction of CRH-responsive corticotropes by counterflow centrifugation and the first report of heterogeneous storage of ACTH and beta-endorphin. The use of enriched fractions facilitated the analysis of these heterogeneous storage patterns in over 8000 corticotropes.
So far, schizophrenia can only be regarded as a heterogeneous syndrome in view of the fact that both concept and phenomenology themselves are heterogeneous and also that aetiology and pathogenesis are likewise largely unknown. Furthermore, the diagnosis &quot;schizophrenia&quot; is merely a convention and nothing more, which, in turn, considerably hampers aetiopathogenetic research. Hence, we cannot expect highly valid results if we examine the nosological specificity of certain variables by means of internosological comparisons. However, a clinically more relevant approach could be the examination of the clinical validity especially the prognostic and predictive validity of variables, even though such examination has so far not led to convincing results in individual cases. A more striking relevance for aetiopathogenetic groupings could be obtained, above all, by a &quot;reversal of the dependence of variables&quot;. This reversal should concern variables that are as homogeneous and clearly defined as possible and are reliably measurable. This applies mainly if by &quot;horizontal&quot; characterisation a) they have proved to be time-stable trait markers on the grounds of prospective intraindividual comparisons; b) furthermore, if by being present before the diseased state is manifest they have proved to be vulnerability markers either retrospectively by anamnesis of relevant signs and symptoms or prospectively in still (?) healthy subjects by means of high-risk studies; c) and, finally, if they are found to be markers in the true sense of the word on the grounds of their mass occurrence in healthy blood relatives, i.e. as variables under genetic control. We think that mainly such variables appear to be promising for an aetiopathogenetically oriented &quot;vertical&quot; strategy. This strategy aims via multidisciplinary multilevel analyses, utilising strategies, techniques and results of the rapidly developing neurosciences, at establishing connections of variables between various levels, as the &quot;uppermost&quot; of which we can consider to be the clinico-psychopathological level and as &quot;lowermost&quot; the molecular-biological level. This is discussed on the basis of examples.
Lithium chloride reduce the measured parameters of gastric secretion (gastric volume, hydrogen ion concentration, and gastric acid output) 2 h after intracerebroventricular, intravenous, or subcutaneous administration in pylorus-ligated rats, in a dose-dependent manner. Intracerebroventricular administration of lithium was approximately five times and 10 times more potent than intravenous and subcutaneous injection, respectively. Time-course study demonstrated that the action of lithium (400 micrograms) on gastric secretion reached a peak at 1 h after intracerebroventricular administration; however, the effects on volume and output were still significant after 8 h. Prior intracerebroventricular injection of indomethacin (400 micrograms) reversed the action of centrally administered lithium on gastric secretion. However, central administration of the opiate receptor blocker naltrexone (100 micrograms), as well as subcutaneous administration of indomethacin (5 mg/kg), failed to modify the effect of lithium on gastric acid secretion. Our data suggest that lithium appears to act centrally to modulate gastric acid secretion in rats through a mechanism involving the synthesis of prostaglandinlike material(s) in the brain. Furthermore, the effect of centrally administered lithium is independent of stimulation of opiate receptor(s) in the brain.
Biosynthesis and processing of the protective protein for beta-galactosidase in normal and galactosialidosis fibroblasts were investigated using specific antiserum preparations. A 45-kd precursor was processed to a mature 30-kd protein in normal fibroblasts. The mature protective protein was not detected in any of the twelve galactosialidosis fibroblast strains examined in this study. The precursor was not detected in two cases and in the others was of heterogeneous molecular weight, i.e., normal, abnormally low, or abnormally high. These molecular abnormalities were not correlated with clinical manifestations of the patients.
Description of an original miniature computer system capable of recording biomechanical parameters during locomotion, providing auditory signals which can be used in biofeedback locomotor learning, and triggering functional electrical stimulation of nerves and muscles at preselected moments in the locomotor cycle. The system, which is worn on the patient's back, is connected to appropriate gauges with which it is possible to measure knee angle and to record the time of heel contact with the ground. The relevant data are stored in the system memory and can be transferred to a microcassette and later displayed as a function of time on a video screen or printed on paper. The same data can be used on-line to provide a patient with a sound signal as a basis for biofeedback training. This kind of training has been successfully used to correct knee hyperextension during locomotion in hemiplegic patients. The system can also be used to trigger a stimulator and thus constitutes a valuable tool for investigations and treatments involving functional electrical stimulation. Many other applications may be developed, both in basic research and in various fields where motor training is required.
A method for the spatial analysis of EEG and EP data, based on the spherical harmonic Fourier expansion (SHE) of scalp potential measurements, is described. This model provides efficient and accurate formulas for: (1) the computation of the surface Laplacian and (2) the interpolation of electrical potentials, current source densities, test statistics and other derived variables. Physiologically based simulation experiments show that the SHE method gives better estimates of the surface Laplacian than the commonly used finite difference method. Cross-validation studies for the objective comparison of different interpolation methods demonstrate the superiority of the SHE over the commonly used methods based on the weighted (inverse distance) average of the nearest three and four neighbor values.

The spatiotemporal pattern of DNA synthesis in the mouse embryo at the beginning of metabolic dormancy was examined. Embryos were recovered from females at intervals following ovariectomy at 1100 hours on day 4 of pregnancy, incubated in vitro for 1 h in the presence of [3H]thymidine, and prepared for light microscopic autoradiography. The proportion of labeled cells in the embryo remained high (40-60%) for 18 h after ovariectomy and then declined gradually to 12% by 96 h. However, analysis of individual cell subpopulations showed that the decline was not uniform in all regions of the blastocyst. Labeling was high over the inner cell mass (ICM) during all time intervals in the study, while labeling over the mural trophoblast cells declined sharply by 24 h after ovariectomy. Labeling over the polar trophoblast also declined but had values that were intermediate between the ICM and mural trophoblast regions of the blastocyst. These regional differences in DNA synthesis during the arrest of development suggest that intermediate steps are involved in control of DNA synthesis in the embryo and that the ICM may play a role in the different responses of the trophoblast cell populations.
Immunochemical and immunohistochemical techniques were used to map the tissue distribution and cellular localization of a rat brain-specific polypeptide, termed PEP-19. PEP-19 was found to be abundant in the cerebellum and olfactory bulbs but was present at much lower levels in other gross brain regions. It was undetectable in all nonneural tissues examined but was present in the cerebellum of several vertebrates, including rat, mouse, guinea pig, monkey, and human. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that PEP-19 was localized to the soma, axon, and dendritic processes of rat cerebellar Purkinje cells with no demonstrable immunoreactivity in nonneuronal cell types. Furthermore, mutant mice showing degeneration of Purkinje cells exhibit markedly decreased levels of PEP-19. Because PEP-19 appears during the final stages of maturation of Purkinje cells, it may be utilized as a probe to monitor the development of these neurons in vivo.

Male Fischer-344 rats, 21 days old, were fed diets containing 0 (LOD), 2,200 (CONT), or 440,000 (HID) international units of vitamin D3 per kilogram for 12 weeks. [Ca] was measured in plasma, CSF, brain, and choroid plexus. In addition, 45Ca and 36Cl transfer coefficients (KCa and KCl) for uptake from blood into CSF and brain were determined. Although plasma ionized [Ca]s in LOD and HID rats were 50% and 136%, respectively, of values in CONT animals, CSF and brain [Ca]s ranged from only 85% to 110% of respective CONT values. Choroid plexus [Ca] was increased by 37% after HID diet, but was decreased only 10% after LOD. KCa values at CSF, parietal cortex, and pons-medulla were negatively correlated with plasma ionized [Ca], whereas KCl values at CSF and brain were not different between the diet groups. The findings demonstrate that central nervous system [Ca] is maintained during chronic hypo- or hypercalcemia by saturable transport of Ca at brain barrier membranes. This transport does not seem to involve modulation by 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3.
Immunoreactivity for calbindin D 28K was localized ultrastructurally in nerve cell bodies and nerve fibres in myenteric ganglia of the guinea-pig small intestine. Reactive cell bodies had a characteristic ultrastructure: the cytoplasm contained many elongate, electron-dense mitochondria, numerous secondary lysosomes that were peripherally located, peripheral stacks of rough endoplasmic reticulum and dispersed Golgi apparatus. The cells were generally larger than other myenteric neurons and had mainly smooth outlines. The cytoplasmic features of these neurons were shared by a small group of immunonegative cells, but the majority of negative cells had clearly different ultrastructural appearances. Of 310 cells from 16 ganglia that were systematically examined, 38% were immunoreactive for calbindin, 10% were unreactive but similar in ultrastructure to the calbindin-reactive neurons and 51% were unreactive and dissimilar in the appearance of their cytoplasmic organelles. Immunoreactive varicosities with synaptic specializations were found on most unreactive neurons, but were markedly less frequent on the calbindin-immunoreactive cell bodies. Non-reactive presynaptic fibres were also more common on non-reactive neurons than on the calbindin-positive cell bodies. Numerous reactive varicosities, some showing synaptic specializations, were found adjacent to other fibres in the neuropil. Light microscopic studies show calbindin immunoreactive neurons to have Dogiel type-II morphology. Thus the present work links distinguishing ultrastructural features to a specific nerve cell type recognized by light microscopy in the enteric ganglia for the first time.
Patients with unilateral hemispheric lesions were given visual target cancellation tasks. As expected, marked contralateral and less severe ipsilateral visual inattention were observed in patients with right-sided cerebral lesions whereas those with left-sided lesions showed only mild contralateral neglect. Stimulus material (shapes vs letters) and array (random vs structured) interacted in a complex manner to influence target detection only in patients with right-sided lesions. Furthermore, the search strategy of these patients tended to be erratic, particularly when the stimuli were in an unstructured array. A structured array prompted a more systematic and efficient search. It appears, therefore, that stimulus content and spatial array affect neglect behaviour in patients with right-sided lesions and that a lack of systematic visual exploration within the extrapersonal space is one factor that contributes to visual hemispatial inattention.
Ten of 17 muscle biopsy specimens from 15 patients with childhood dermatomyositis (DM) showed distinct perifascicular atrophy. The atrophic fibers showed the following characteristics: (1) decreased cytochrome c oxidase (CCO) activity, (2) rare positive reaction with acridine orange (AO) staining, (3) type 2C reaction in 7.9% (0.4-17.5%) of the fibers, (4) an increased number of activated satellite cells, (5) mitochondria which were increased in number but decreased in size, (6) a significantly decreased CCO activity in isolated mitochondria (51.6 +/- 30.3 nmol/min per mg mitochondrial protein) as compared with that in the controls (103.6 +/- 41.5). The major pathogenetic mechanism in muscles in childhood DM is thought to be ischemia due to involvement of the microvasculature. The presence of type 2C fibers and increased numbers of activated satellite cells reflect a focal repair process taking place concomitantly in the damaged myofibers. Mitochondrial enzyme defect, especially CCO deficiency is present not only in genetic disorders with mitochondrial involvement but in other neuromuscular disorders including inflammatory myopathies.
Serotoninergic Retzius neurons reform an inhibitory synapse onto pressure-sensitive mechanosensory (P) neurons when the cells are removed from the nervous system of the leech and are juxtaposed in tissue culture. The somas of P cells in situ and single (uninnervated) P cells in culture have both a depolarizing and Cl-dependent hyperpolarizing response to application of the transmitter serotonin (5-HT). Synaptic release of 5-HT by a Retzius cell in situ and in culture evokes a Cl-dependent postsynaptic response but does not appear to activate the depolarizing receptors. We have characterized the ionic currents induced by synaptically released and applied 5-HT in voltage-clamped P cells in culture in order to determine the responses to transmitter and their modifications following innervation. When 5-HT was applied to single P cells, 2 types of channels were activated by 5-HT and could be distinguished by changing the ionic composition of the superfusion solution. In an impermeant cation (TrisCl) solution, a 5-HT-dependent Cl current was activated. When single P cells were superfused with a Cl-free solution (Cl replaced by impermeant SO4), 5-HT activated a monovalent cation current. Following innervation of a P cell by a cocultured Retzius cell, the reversal potential of the peak postsynaptic current depended on the Cl gradient and the synaptic response was blocked by the Cl channel blocker 9-anthracenecarboxylic acid. Thus, synaptic release of 5-HT activated solely the Cl channels and not the cationic channels. Pipette application of 5-HT onto innervated P cells activated a Cl conductance comparable in magnitude to the synaptic response. In contrast, the cationic conductance was reduced roughly 5-fold. It is concluded that innervation of a P cell by a Retzius cell resulted in clustering of the synaptic 5-HT receptors, which activate Cl channels and reduction of the nonsynaptic, cationic response. The result is a selection of receptors in the cultured P cell that mimics the pattern observed in vivo.
We have investigated the expression of a unique class of neuropeptides, the cerebellins, in normal and neurodevelopmentally mutant mice. Employing HPLC separation, gas-phase Edman sequencing, and immunocytochemistry, the normal Balb/c mouse cerebellum is shown to contain 2 Purkinje cell-specific neuropeptides, cerebellin and des-Ser1-cerebellin. In this strain of mouse the cerebellins appear during early postnatal development and their subsequent levels parallel the most dramatic period of cerebellar development: granule cell migration and parallel fiber formation, synaptogenesis, Purkinje cell dendritic maturation, and establishment of adult cytoarchitecture. In mutant mice (reeler, weaver, and staggerer), in which these early developmental events are markedly disrupted, Purkinje cells contain much lower levels of cerebellin and des-Ser1-cerebellin. In general there is a correlation between the formation and number of parallel fiber-Purkinje cell synapses and cerebellin levels. For example, the staggerer mutant, which totally lacks these synapses, is essentially devoid of cerebellin, whereas in reeler, cerebellin seems to be dependent upon the position of individual Purkinje cells and their ability to form contacts with granule cells. These results indicate that granule cells can modulate the level of cerebellin in Purkinje cells. A number of models to explain these data are discussed.
The neural signals in visual cortex associated with positional disparity and contrast texture correlation of binocular images are the subject of this study. We have analyzed the effects of stereoscopically presented luminous bars and of dynamic random-dot patterns on the activity of single neurons in cortical visual areas V1, V2, and V3-V3A of the alert, visually trained rhesus macaque. The interpretation of the results and considerations of possible neural mechanisms led us to recognize 2 functional sets of stereoscopic neurons. (1) A set of neurons, tuned excitatory (T0) or tuned inhibitory (TI), which respond sharply to images of zero or near-zero disparity. Objects at or about the horopter drive the T0 neurons and suppress the TI, while objects nearer and farther have the opposite effects on each type, inhibition of the T0 and excitation of the TI. The activity of these neurons may provide, in a reciprocal way, the definition of the plane of fixation, and the basic reference for binocular single vision and depth discrimination. (2) A second set of neurons includes tuned excitatory at larger crossed or uncrossed disparities (TN/TF) and neurons with reciprocal excitatory and inhibitory disparity sensitivity with cross-over at the horopter (NE/FA). Binocularly uncorrelated image contrast drives these neurons to a maintained level of activity, which shifts, in response to correlated images, toward facilitation or suppression as a function of positional disparity. These neurons may operate in the neural processing leading to stereopsis, both coarse and fine, and also provide signals for the system controlling binocular vergence. These results indicate that cortical visual neurons are binocularly linked to respond to the relative position and contrast of the images over their receptive fields, and also that both these aspects of binocular stimulation may be utilized by the brain as a source of stereoscopic information.
The ability of the noncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist MK-801 to prevent neuronal degeneration in the rat striatum and hippocampus caused by intracerebral injection of excitotoxins has been examined. Excitotoxic damage was assessed after 7 d, using histological and biochemical [choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) glutamate decarboxylase (GAD)] measurements. Systemically administered MK-801 was found to protect against neurodegeneration caused by NMDA (200 nmol) and the naturally occurring NMDA receptor agonist quinolinate (120-600 nmol) but not against that induced by kainate (5 nmol) or alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA; 50 nmol), indicating a selectivity for NMDA receptor-mediated neuronal loss. Neurotoxicity caused by NMDA (200 nmol) or quinolinate (200 nmol) was prevented by MK-801 (1-10 mg/kg, i.p.) administered in a single dose after excitotoxin injection. In the striatum, significant protection of cholinergic neurons (assessed by ChAT measurements) was observed when MK-801 was given up to 5 hr after injection of NMDA or quinolinate, whereas protection of GABAergic neurons (assessed by GAD measurements) was obtained up to 2 hr. The results suggest that GABAergic neurons degenerate more rapidly than cholinergic neurons. The competitive NMDA receptor antagonist 3-[(+/-)-2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl]-propyl-1-phosphonate (100 mg/kg, i.p.) gave partial protection of striatal neurons when administered 1 hr after quinolinate injection. In the rat hippocampus, administration of 10 mg/kg MK-801 i.p. 1 hr after quinolinate injection caused almost complete protection of pyramidal and granule neurons, whereas the degeneration of CA3/CA4 pyramidal neurons caused by kainate injection was unaffected. These observations indicate that neurons in rat striatum and hippocampus do not die as an immediate consequence of exposure to high concentrations of NMDA agonists but that a delayed process is involved that requires NMDA receptor activation. In this respect, intracerebral injections of NMDA agonists may mimic the pathological changes that are thought to occur in the brain following periods of cerebral ischemia, where delayed neuronal degeneration occurs.
A system has been developed for measuring the three-dimensional (3D) isometric forces produced by the arm in response to a visual stimulus. The output of 3 load cells is combined to determine the components of the 3D response force. The maximum force range of the load cells is 2000 g which can be read with a resolution of 4 g and with a measured accuracy of +/- 10 g. An overload stop protects the device to a load of 23 kg. The visual instruction to the subject concerning the direction and magnitude of the 3D force vector to be produced is presented using a vivid spherical stereogram. This stereogram is produced using the anaglyphic technique where the left and right images are separated by color filters. A dense aggregation of points defines the target cursor, which can be positioned anywhere inside or on the surface of the sphere. This cursor can represent a stationary or a moving target. A force feedback cursor can be provided to indicate to the subject his/her response. The color display on the cathode ray tube is produced by a display generator driven by a computer.
Publication in professional journals has become an expectation not only of neuroscience nurse educators but practitioners as well. Through publication, the neuroscience nurse demonstrates commitment to the profession and specialty area by sharing clinical insights and knowledge with colleagues practicing in the field. The publication process includes many steps beginning with the idea for publication to a careful review of the galley proofs. This article describes opportunities for journal publication and strategies for ensuring success in the publication process.
Registered nurse (RN) turnover is a severe problem many hospitals face in today's health care climate. A study was conducted of a graduate nurse (GN) neurosciences internship established in a large metropolitan teaching hospital located in southwestern Tennessee to determine the internship's effect upon role conception of GNs. Thirty-two GNs enrolled in the internship comprised the experimental group, and 22 GNs in traditional orientation were the control group. Data collection instruments consisted of Corwin's Role Conception tool and a demographic questionnaire designed to examine variables that could influence professional role conception. Both instruments were completed at the beginning of employment, and Corwin's Role Conception repeated after completion of the first six months of practice. At this time audiotaped interviews were conducted by a nurse counselor to collect qualitative data from ten randomly selected informants from each group. Results revealed no significant differences in the two groups regarding changes in role conception as measured by Corwin's instrument. Audiotaped interviews brought to light many concerns of new GNs with regard to inadequate staffing, the charge nurse role, coping with the stress of the professional nurse role and new attitudes toward the field of the neurosciences. Implications for nurse administrators include the need to: be aware of the stresses to which new GNs are exposed; examine traditional practices such as the charge nurse role and staffing patterns; determine whether nursing internships, such as the neurosciences internship can improve the attitudes of GNs toward their specialty.
Nursing's holistic approach to patient care requires that nurses use interventions that promote holism. Movement therapy is one of a number of possible holistic interventions neuroscience nurses can use. This intervention helps persons to become aware of their bodies and to use the body for expressing inner feelings. Two techniques, creative dance and afspaending, are described along with suggestions for their use with neuroscience populations.
Many patients with epilepsy are refractory to anticonvulsant therapy. For some, surgery is a means to control their seizures. Temporal lobectomy, the most common neurosurgical approach to intractable epilepsy, has resulted in improvement or cure in as many as 90% of treated individuals. To determine patients suitable for surgery, presurgical selection and evaluation criteria have been devised. With epilepsy surgery becoming more widely utilized and more centers appearing in the United States, there is a growing need for neuroscience nurses to know about recent developments. This overview of surgery for epilepsy includes the presurgical evaluation process through the postoperative phase presented from a nursing perspective.
The effects of copper administration to neonatal male mice on the copper concentrations and activities of copper-containing enzymes in cerebrum, liver, and kidney were studied. Intraperitoneal copper injections at 7 and 10 days of age increased the activities of superoxide dismutase and cytochrome oxidase in cerebrum and liver, and also increased the copper concentrations in cerebrum, liver, and kidney at 13 days of age. Maternal copper administration during the late-gestational period (from 13 days gestation to delivery) decreased the activities of both enzymes and increased the copper concentration in cerebrum. This increased level of copper remained by 13 days of age after birth. Liver showed similar changes to those in cerebrum, but the renal responses were less remarkable. Maternal copper administration from the late-gestational through lactational periods affected neonatal growth, decreased the activity of cytochrome oxidase, and increased the copper concentrations in all tissues examined. It is known that the copper concentration and copper-containing enzyme activity are low in cerebrum of mottled mice as well as of patients with Menkes' disease. These results suggested that the cytochrome oxidase activity in cerebrum was decreased by not only copper deficiency but also excess. The combination of prenatal copper supplementation by means of maternal copper administration during the late-gestational period and intraperitoneal copper injections after birth, while being careful not to overdose, is expected to be efficient for the copper supplementation to mottled mice.
Agents known to influence adrenergic function were examined for their mydriatic effects in urethane-anesthetized rats. Both the direct acting adrenergic agonist, clonidine, and the &quot;indirect&quot; acting agonists, cocaine, desipramine and amphetamine elicited mydriatic responses. The polar alpha-2 adrenoceptor agonist, 4-hydroxyclonidine, did not elicit a mydriatic response when administered systemically; however, it did produce a pronounced mydriatic response when administered i.c.v. Inasmuch as the selective lipophilic alpha-2 adrenoceptor antagonist, yohimbine, but not the polar alpha adrenoceptor antagonist, phentolamine, reversed the mydriatic effects of clonidine and cocaine, these data suggest that centrally located alpha-2 adrenoceptors elicit the above mydriatic response. The direct acting alpha-2 adrenoceptor agonists, clonidine (i.v.) and 4-hydroxyclonidine (i.c.v.), were the most efficacious of the agents studied in eliciting the mydriatic response. The indirect acting agents, amphetamine, desipramine and cocaine, were less efficacious. The rank order potency (ED-50) of these drugs was as follows: clonidine greater than desipramine greater than cocaine = amphetamine. The mydriatic effects of cocaine were attenuated by yohimbine and reserpine pretreatments. In addition, the local anesthetic, procaine, and the polar cocaine analog, cocaine methiodide, were significantly less efficacious than cocaine. These results suggest that cocaine elicits mydriasis by indirectly acting at central and postsynaptically located alpha-2 adrenoceptors.
Phencyclidine (PCP) has been reported to suppress a variety of immune functions in vitro. Because PCP binds with high affinity to both PCP and sigma receptors, the identity of the receptor(s) mediating the immunological effects of PCP is unknown. The aim of the present study was to identify and characterize the sites of PCP action (sigma and/or PCP receptors) in human peripheral blood leukocytes (PBL) using [3H]haloperidol or 1,3 di(2-([5-3H]tolyl)guanidine ([3H]DTG) to specifically label sigma receptors and 3,4-[3H]-(N)-[1-(2-thienyl)-cyclohexyl]-piperidine ([3H]TCP) to specifically label PCP receptors. [3H]Haloperidol binding was saturable and of high affinity with comparable KD values in human PBL (0.44 +/- 0.10 nM) and rat cerebellum (0.51 +/- 0.09 nM). Similarly, [3H]DTG binding was saturable with comparable KD values of 29.5 +/- 3.5 and 26.4 +/- 3.6 nM in rat cerebellum and human PBL, respectively. In contrast, there was a notable absence of [3H]TCP-labeled PCP receptors in human PBL and rat cerebellum. In competition studies, the pharmacologic profile of [3H]haloperidol-labeled sigma receptors in human PBL was virtually identical with that in rat cerebellum (slope, 0.87; correlation coefficient, 0.96); the rank order of potency of competing drugs was haloperidol greater than l-butaclamol = pentazocine greater than d-3-(hydroxyphenyl)-N-(1-propyl)-piperidine greater than DTG = d-butaclamol = d-SKF 10,047 greater than levallorphan greater than or equal to PCP greater than or equal to l-SKF 10,047 greater than TCP greater than MK-801.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
1. Intracellular recordings were made from muscle fibre No. 6 of the dorsal longitudinal flight muscle (DLM) of Drosophila melanogaster in both wild-type flies and the temperature-sensitive paralytic mutant, shibirets-1 (shi). 2. Continuous recordings of the miniature excitatory junction potentials (MEJPs) in this fibre were made as the temperature was changed from 19 to 29 degrees C, and back to 19 degrees C. In shi flies, synapses become depleted of vesicles at 29 degrees C due to a temperature-dependent blockage in the recycling process, while transmitter release proceeds normally. When the temperature is lowered to 19 degrees C, recycling is allowed to proceed and recovery of the full complement of synaptic vesicles gradually occurs in about 20 min. 3. It was observed that the MEJP amplitude distribution in shi flies was unimodal at 19 degrees C prior to heating (as was wild-type), but during recovery from 8 min exposure to 29 degrees C became multimodal, with peaks at roughly integral multiples of the original peak prior to heating. This effect was never seen in wild-type flies. 4. Also, during recovery, the MEJP did not occur randomly, but rather occurred in a clustered fashion. 5. It is concluded that during recovery from depletion in shi neuromuscular junctions, a condition exists which causes the synchronization of spontaneous release, causing multiquantal MEJPs or clustering of MEJPs, depending on the degree of synchronization. 6. The possible role of Ca2+ in this phenomenon is discussed.

The organic anions picrate (2,4,6-trinitrophenol) and niflumate (2-[[3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-amino]-3-pyridinecarboxylate) were examined for their effects on radioligand binding to the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)/benzodiazepine receptor complex. Neither organic anion produced the enhancement of [35S] t-butylbicyclophosphorothionate (TBPS) binding characteristic of anions (such as Cl- and Br-) known to permeate GABA-gated chloride channels. However, both picrate and niflumate potently (IC50 values between 66 and 531 and 30 and 155 microM, respectively) inhibited the effect of 100-200 mM concentrations of anions (I-, Br-, Cl-, SCN-, and F-) to increase the binding of [35S]TBPS to GABA-gated chloride channels. This inhibition resulted from a decrease in both the maximum number of binding sites and the apparent affinity (increased Kd) of [35S]TBPS. Niflumate was consistently more potent than picrate, but both organic anions exhibited the same sequence of relative potencies against smaller anions (I- greater than Br- greater than Cl- greater than SCN- greater than F-). This sequence was similar to that described for the relative permeabilities of these anions through GABA-gated chloride channels. Niflumate and picrate were potent inhibitors of Cl-, but not GABA-modulated radioligand binding to benzodiazepine receptors. These findings suggest that picrate and niflumate bind with high affinity at or near an anion binding site that may regulate the movement of anions through GABA-gated chloride channels and radioligand binding at this &quot;supramolecular complex.&quot;
The effects of six monovalent anions (chloride, bromide, iodide, nitrate, perchlorate, and thiocyanate) on [3H]strychnine binding to glycine-gated chloride channels were examined. These anions have previously been shown to permeate glycine-gated chloride channels and stimulate [3H]strychnine binding. Whereas low concentrations (10-200 mM) of all these anions enhanced [3H]strychnine binding, higher concentrations (0.2-3 M) of thiocyanate, perchlorate, and iodide produced a robust inhibition of radioligand binding, and a more modest inhibition was observed with the same concentrations of nitrate and bromide. The presence of one binding site for anions at glycine-gated chloride channels can account for either the activation or the inhibition phase, but not both. However, these biphasic effects can be explained by the presence of two binding sites for anions at these channels. Two models with two anion binding sites were considered, the first assuming both allosteric activation and inhibition of the binding of the ligand, and the other explained by allosteric activation combined with competitive inhibition. Mathematical expressions for both models were formulated, and the equations obtained yielded satisfactory fitting to the results obtained with all anions tested in both concentration-response and saturation experiments. These equations also permitted the calculation of several parameters describing the interaction of the anions with these channels. The main difference in the behavior of these anions relates to the extent to which they produce activation of [3H]strychnine binding and to their cooperative interaction at the two putative anion binding sites. Thus, a strong negative cooperativity was observed for the simultaneous binding of two molecules of chloride, bromide, or nitrate, but not for the simultaneous binding of thiocyanate, perchlorate, or iodide. This latter property may be related to the conductance of these anions through glycine-gated chloride channels.
We have examined organ and species variations in interactions of porphyrins with peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptors and explored structure-activity requirements for porphyrin-receptor interactions. Whereas potency of the benzodiazepine RO5-4864 varies several orders of magnitude in competing for receptors in different organs and species, effects of porphyrins and the isoquinoline carboxamide PK11195 are relatively constant. The structural requirements determining porphyrin affinity for benzodiazepine binding sites are fairly strict. The most potent porphyrins are those with prominent physiological functions.
The acetylcholine receptor (AChR) content and the autophosphorylation of the regulatory subunit of cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase type II (R-II) were evaluated in rats soleus muscles at 24, 30 and 66 hr after surgical denervation by cutting the nerve at a short distance (short-nerve-stump) and at a long distance (long-nerve-stump) from the muscle. AChR content was based on the specific binding of [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin (BUTX); changes in the autophosphorylation of R-II were based upon the predominant in vitro 32P-phosphorylation of a 56-Kd soluble protein in cytosolic fractions of solei. The AChR content and the 32P-autophosphorylation of R-II were increased in samples from short-nerve-stump solei, but not from long-nerve-stump solei, after a denervation-time of 30 hr. This nerve-stump-length dependency indicates that the two denervation effects are not related to the immediate halt of impulse-evoked muscle contractility. Furthermore, the results show that alterations in the 32P-autophosphorylation of R-II occurred before, as well as whenever, increases in the AChR content were found. Speculatively, this temporal relationship may be significant with respect to the potential role of R-II in gene expression.
Vinca alkaloids were used to study the role of retrograde axon transport (RT) in activating neuron perikaryal repair response to nerve transection. Mouse lumbar dorsal root ganglia (DRG) (L4-L6) were excised 48 hours after unilateral transection of the sciatic nerve and ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) activity determined. ODC activity in DRG ipsilateral to nerve transection was increased 10-20 fold over contralateral values. Typical ODC activities in ipsilateral and contralateral DRG samples were 6.18 +/- 1.4 and 0.31 +/- 0.09 pmol 14CO2 released/h/3DRG, respectively. Systemic administration of single doses of either vincristine (1 mg/kg) or vinblastine (5 mg/kg) immediately prior to axotomy attenuated ODC induction in ipsilateral DRG by 39% and 47%, respectively. A direct inhibition of ODC activity in the DRG appears unlikely since only high concentrations of vinblastine (0.5-1.0 mM) were able to inhibit ODC activity in vitro. We suggest vinca alkaloids inhibit ODC induction as a consequence of disrupting retrograde axonal transport. Interruption of this intracellular communication mechanism may be etiologically linked to the the distal axon degeneration which follows repetitive exposure to vinca alkaloids and other agents that induce toxic axonal neuropathy.
Neurohypophyseal secretion of oxytocin (OT) in response to dehydration, hypovolemia, restraint, and parturition in rats is known to be potentiated by the opioid antagonist naloxone. The present studies demonstrated that stimulation of OT secretion by systemic injections of cholecystokinin (CCK) and lithium chloride (LiCl) likewise are potentiated by naloxone pretreatment. Moreover, the inhibitory effects of CCK and LiCl on gastric motility and feeding similarly were enhanced by naloxone. Because neurohypophyseal hormone secretion and inhibition of gastric motility are known to be mediated by oxytocinergic neurons projecting from the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, this parallel potentiation by naloxone of CCK- and LiCl-induced effects on OT secretion, gastric motility, and food intake suggests that one of the pathways involved in the central control of feeding behavior also may be oxytocinergic. These findings therefore provide evidence in support of an important role of endogenous opioid peptides in regulating OT secretion in a diffuse neuronal system that mediates an integrated neuroendocrine, autonomic, and behavioral response to CCK, LiCl, and perhaps other treatments that similarly affect ingestive behavior in rats.
The parietal-frontal distribution of reductions of regional cerebral metabolic rates for glucose (rCMRglc) was studied in 32 patients with mild to severe dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT), using positron emission tomography and fluorodeoxyglucose, and was related to patterns of neuropsychological impairment. In moderate and severe DAT patients, one frontal association region, the premotor cortex, demonstrated significant metabolic reductions equivalent to reductions in the parietal association cortex, and the ratio of parietal to premotor rCMRglc had significantly greater variance than in controls. In moderately demented patients, parietal-premotor and parietal-prefrontal metabolic ratios correlated significantly with neuropsychological impairments. Disproportionate parietal hypometabolism was associated with more impairment of verbal comprehension, calculations, visuospatial construction, and immediate visuospatial memory span. Disproportionate frontal hypometabolism was associated with more impaired verbal fluency and attention. Longitudinal follow-up of 20 of the patients showed that parietal/frontal metabolic ratios and their correlated neuropsychological patterns were stable over time, as dementia severity worsened. These results indicate that in moderate to severe DAT patients, metabolic reductions in the premotor cortex are as severe as the reductions in the parietal association cortex. Moreover, the parietal-premotor distribution of metabolic reductions is variable and related to variable patterns of cognitive impairment.
The role of calcium in the regulation of sodium-dependent high-affinity uptake of choline was assessed in vitro in slices of the rat brain, by measuring the specific binding of [3H]hemicholinium-3 ([3H]HCh-3) and the uptake of [3H]choline. Depolarization with potassium of slices of hippocampus, cortex, or striatum significantly increased the specific binding of [3H]HCh-3 when compared to control slices. However, the observed potentiation of specific binding of [3H]HCh-3 was markedly inhibited by the removal of calcium from the incubation medium in cortex or hippocampus, but not in slices of striatum. Alterations in the uptake of [3H]choline directly paralleled the observed changes in the specific binding of [3H]HCh-3 in striatum of the rat and were unaffected by the reduction of calcium in the incubation medium. The inorganic calcium channel antagonists, cadmium and cobalt, but not magnesium, zinc, manganese or lanthanum, significantly inhibited the 40 mM potassium chloride-induced stimulation of the binding of [3H]HCh-3 in the striatum. Finally, the calcium ionophore A23187 significantly increased the binding of [3H]HCh-3 in slices of striatum, either in the presence or absence of calcium in the bathing medium. This study demonstrates regional differences in the role of extracellular calcium in the regulation of the uptake of choline and suggests the involvement of intracellular release of calcium in the in vitro regulation of the sodium-dependent high-affinity uptake of choline in the striatum.
Ablation of capsaicin-sensitive afferent neurons enhances experimentally induced ulceration in the rat gastric mucosa, which suggests that these neurons are involved in gastric mucosal protection. To provide direct evidence for such a function it was investigated whether stimulation of afferent nerve endings by the intragastric administration of capsaicin could counteract the ulcerogenic effect of 25% ethanol. Capsaicin (3.2-640 microM), administered together with ethanol, inhibited the development of haemorrhagic lesions in a concentration-dependent fashion but did not alter the ethanol-induced fall in the gastric potential difference. This suggests that capsaicin does not prevent ethanol from damaging gastric epithelial cells but can counteract the vascular lesions caused by ethanol. The anti-lesion effect of intragastric capsaicin was absent in adult rats which had been treated with a high dose of systemic capsaicin as neonates in order to achieve a permanent degeneration of unmyelinated afferent neurons. It would appear, therefore, that intragastric capsaicin reduces lesion formation by an action on afferent neurons. The protective effect of intragastric capsaicin was not altered following acute subdiaphragmatic vagotomy, acute removal of the coeliac-superior mesenteric ganglion complex, acute bilateral ligation of the adrenal glands, or pretreatment of the rats with atropine or guanethidine. These findings indicate that stimulation of afferent neurons by intragastric capsaicin affords protection of the rat gastric mucosa against ethanol-induced damage. As the autonomic nervous system is not involved gastroprotection appears to represent a local effector function of sensory nerve endings in the stomach.
In a number of CNS preparations, neuronal activation has been shown to result in a rapid extracellular alkaline transient, followed by a prolonged acid shift. The isolated turtle cerebellum was used to investigate the early alkaline transient. Double-barreled ion-sensitive microelectrodes for H+, K+ and tetramethylammonium were used to measure field potentials and extracellular ion and volume shifts in response to bipolar electrical stimulation of the parallel fibers. Transition from 15 mM HEPES to 35 mM HCO3- -buffered Ringer decreased the amplitude of the alkaline shift, presumably due to a marked increase in extracellular buffering power. In HEPES-buffered Ringer, repetitive stimulation produced alkaline shifts as large as 0.3-0.4 pH. Single shocks produced an alkaline shift of 0.006 +/- 0.0002 pH with a latency as short as 70 ms. Kynurenic acid (an excitatory amino acid antagonist), or Mn2+, blocked the alkaline shift and the postsynaptic component of the field potential. The alkaline shift was not blocked by the Na-H exchange inhibitor amiloride. The relationship between pHo and extracellular volume transients was studied using tetramethylammonium as an extracellular volume indicator. In nominally HCO3-free Ringer, stimulation at 5 Hz for 10 s caused a decrease in extracellular volume of 3.0 +/- 0.2 per cent. The volume transient was unaffected by 3 mM Mn2+, while the alkaline shift was completely abolished. The data for the alkaline shift are consistent with a channel-mediated transmembrane flux of proton equivalents. The size of the pH change and the underlying perturbation it represents, indicate that acid-base shifts may be a functionally important consequence of neuronal activity.
The microtubule-associated proteins 1A, 1B and 2 are present at high levels in Purkinje cell dendrites of normal adult rat cerebellum but show characteristic changes in localization during cerebellar development that allow examination of the effects of hypothyroidism on the development of both Purkinje cells and granule cells. Neonatal rats were made hypothyroid by treatment with propylthiouracil from the day of birth (post-natal day 0, P0). The expression of the microtubule-associated proteins 1A, 1B and 2 in the cerebellum of hypothyroid animals was examined using immunocytochemical techniques and compared to the normal developmental pattern in control animals. The normal developmental decrease in microtubule-associated protein 1A and 1B levels in parallel fibres was delayed in the cerebellum of hypothyroid animals and these proteins persisted in parallel fibres until after P20. Microtubule-associated protein 1B but not 1A was still present in parallel fibres in less mature folia at P30 in hypothyroid rats suggesting that the expression of these two microtubule-associated proteins is regulated separately. In the molecular layer staining with anti-microtubule-associated protein 2 was enriched in Purkinje cell dendrites in normal and hypothyroid cerebella and the stained Purkinje cell dendrites in hypothyroid cerebellum demonstrated a typical deformed morphology at P15. The results show that the restricted subcellular localization of these microtubule-associated proteins is maintained in the cerebellum of hypothyroid rats but the developmental changes in their expression are delayed.
Activity of CA1 neurons was recorded in rat hippocampal slices with a lidocaine-derived QX-572-filled micropipette. The QX compound abolished Na action potentials as reported earlier. In addition it reduced markedly the burst slow afterhyperpolarization seen in these neurons in response to a depolarizing current pulse. It also modified responses to neurotransmitter substances associated with changes in K currents, acetylcholine and serotonin. QX-filled micropipettes can therefore provide some insight into mechanisms of action of certain neurotransmitters in the brain but they cannot be used as selective blockers of Na currents.
The release of endogenous norepinephrine in hippocampus was studied in freely moving rats with microdialysis perfusion. Using a loop-style dialysis probe, the basal amount of norepinephrine collected in 15-min fractions averaged 12 pg/25 microliters. Correcting for recovery (21%), the concentration of norepinephrine in the extracellular fluid of hippocampus under resting conditions was estimated to be approximately 14 nM. The alpha 2 adrenoceptor antagonist yohimbine (5.0 mg/kg, i.p.) increased norepinephrine efflux to 230% of basal levels. Clonidine (0.3 mg/kg, i.p.), an alpha 2 adrenoceptor agonist, decreased norepinephrine efflux to 56% of baseline. Addition of the reuptake blocker desipramine (1.0 microM) to the perfusate had no significant effect on norepinephrine efflux. However, increasing the K+ concentration of the perfusate to 30 mM increased norepinephrine efflux to 196% of baseline, and this effect was increased nearly two-fold by the addition of desipramine to the perfusate (364% of baseline). Restraint stress and intermittent tailshock increased norepinephrine efflux to 213% and 234% of baseline, respectively. The results suggest that microdialysis is a useful way to study norepinephrine release in hippocampus and they permit several conclusions to be drawn. First, the data obtained with systemic administration of alpha 2 adrenoceptor drugs emphasize the fact that a variety of regulatory mechanisms exist that may affect transmitter levels in the extracellular fluid. Second, the ratio of extracellular to intracellular norepinephrine in hippocampal tissue is considerably higher than that reported for dopamine in striatum. Coupled with the small effect of norepinephrine uptake blockade, this suggests that nerve terminal density is an important factor in determining the concentration of catecholamines in the extracellular fluid.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Carbon fibre electrodes combined with differential pulse voltammetry have been used for a number of years to monitor changes in the extracellular concentrations of ascorbic acid, dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid. However, the primary objective of in vivo electrochemists has been to monitor changes in the extracellular concentrations of the neurotransmitter amines; dopamine and serotonin rather than their metabolites. In this paper we describe a new chemically- and electrically-pretreated Nafion-coated carbon fibre electrode which can be used to monitor basal levels of serotonin in the extracellular fluid in the frontal cortex and the dorsal raphe nucleus of rat. These electrodes combined with differential pulse voltammetry detect dopamine (Peak A at -70 mV) and serotonin (Peak B at +240 V) oxidation peaks in vitro but not the oxidation of ascorbic acid, dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid or uric acid, at concentrations up to 10 microM. These electrodes were able to detect serotonin concentration as large as 1 nM in vitro. When used in vivo the oxidation peaks obtained in the frontal cortex and dorsal raphe indicate the basal concentrations of serotonin to be 5 nM and 10 nM respectively. Pharmacological interventions in rats implanted with normal carbon fibre electrodes or with Nafion carbon fibre electrodes further demonstrate that the new Nafion electrodes measure serotonin in vivo. The Nafion-coated electrodes therefore may be a useful tool for the study of serotoninergic systems in vivo with the added advantage that they cause minimal damage due to their small tip size (30 micron).
Using a push-pull cannula technique and an isotopic method for the estimation of [3H]serotonin continuously synthesized from [3H]tryptophan, the effects of acetylcholine were investigated on the in vivo release of [3H]serotonin in the cat basal ganglia and the dorsal raphe nucleus. The unilateral striatal application of acetylcholine (5 x 10(-5) M) reduced local release of [3H]serotonin. This effect was mimicked by nicotine (5 x 10(-5) M) and prevented by mecamylamine (10(-6) M. Oxotremorine (5 x 10(-5) M) had no effect on the local release of [3H]serotonin. All these treatments failed to modify [3H]serotonin release in the ipsilateral substantia nigra or in the dorsal raphe nucleus. The superfusion of serotonergic nerve terminals of the caudate nucleus with tetrodotoxin prevented the inhibitory acetylcholine-induced effect on serotonin release. Furthermore, bicuculline (5 x 10(-5) M) in the caudate nucleus blocked the effect of nicotine, while gamma-aminobutyric acid (10(-5) M) induced a decrease in local release of [3H]serotonin. These data strongly suggest that the inhibitory control exerted by acetylcholine on serotonergic transmission could involve gamma-aminobutyric acid interneurons. Acetylcholine-induced changes in [3H]serotonin release were only observed in non-anaesthetized &quot;encphale isol&quot; cats and not in halothane-anaesthetized animals. The possibility that such a regulation could be presynaptic (direct or through other neurotransmitters) or related to a change in the activity of the serotonergic raphe-striatal neuronal system is discussed.
Angiotensin II-(3-8)-hexapeptide, at the dose of 1 nmol given intracerebroventricularly, only slightly less than angiotensin II (the same dose and route) stimulated exploratory locomotor behaviour in an open field and electromagnetic motimeter. Both peptides considerably enhanced stereotyped behaviour produced by apomorphine and amphetamine. Angiotensin II-(3-8)-hexapeptide improved recall in a passive avoidance situation as well as angiotensin II. The 3-8 C-terminus of angiotensin II enhanced acquisition of active avoidance nearly as effectively as the complete peptide. The results indicate that the effectiveness of equimolar doses of angiotensin II-(3-8)-hexapeptide and angiotensin II in improving processes related to learning and memory in rats is almost identical and thus must be independent of specific angiotensin receptors in brain to which the hexapeptide binds with about 1000 times lower affinity than angiotensin II. The stimulation of stereotypy, a dopamine-controlled behaviour, by the peptides points to the possibility of dopaminergic mediation of their psychotropic effects.
Vasopressin may act in the brain as a neurotransmitter or neuromodulator to influence blood pressure, memory, body temperature and brain development. In order to localize probable central nervous system sites for these actions, we have used 125I-labelled 1-d(CH2)5, 7-sarcosine-8-arginine vasopressin, a specific V1-receptor antagonist, and in vitro autoradiography to map brain vasopressin binding sites. High levels of binding were found in the choroid plexus, blood vessels, lateral septum, bed nucleus of stria terminalis, accumbens nucleus, central nucleus of amygdala, stigmoid hypothalamic nucleus, suprachiasmatic nucleus, arcuate nucleus, nucleus of the solitary tract, area postrema and parts of the hippocampus, thalamus, superior colliculus, and inferior olivary nuclei. Many of these regions are known to be vasopressin-sensitive and to contain vasopressin fibres. Significantly there was no binding to the paraventricular nor the supraoptic nuclei. Displacement of the radioligand from the lateral septum with unlabelled vasopressin analogues gave a rank order of potencies: d(CH2)5-D-Tyr2(Et)Val4-desGly9-arginine-vasopressin approximately equal to d(CH2)5-Tyr2-(Me)arginine-vasopressin approximately equal to arginine-vasopressin approximately equal to d(CH2)5-Sar7-arginine-vasopressin greater than [1-deamino, 8-D-arginine]-vasopressin approximately equal to oxytocin much greater than vasopressin4-9, consistent with binding to V1 receptor subtype. These studies confirm and extend previous findings of V1 receptors in the rat brain. In particular, several new regions of vasopressin receptor binding have been identified, possibly due to the advantages of a radioiodinated ligand with high receptor affinity without binding to neurophysins. Future study of these regions may prove fruitful in elucidating the central actions of vasopressin.
The effect of cutaneous tactile stimulation on motoneuron excitability was studied in 20 normal subjects and in patients of hemiplegia (n = 14) and paraplegia (n = 15) by plotting H-reflex recovery curves during application of twin pulses alone (&quot;basal&quot; H-reflex recovery curve), and twin pulses synchronized with electrical stimuli evoking tactile sensation in skin over the lateral border of the small toe. The &quot;basal&quot; H-reflex recovery curves from normal subjects showed a significant lateral asymmetry of motoneuron excitability, with an even distribution of subjects showing greater excitability on the left and right sides. However, there was no relation between handedness and the side with greater excitability. The cutaneous stimulation produced a highly significant inhibition of the H-reflex recovery between 600 and 6000 ms, with the maximum inhibition recorded at 1000 and 2000 ms, at which time even a complete inhibition of the test H-reflex was observed in some instances. The effect of cutaneous stimulation before 600 ms was statistically insignificant. The amount of cutaneous inhibition of H-reflex recovery showed a lateral asymmetry. The side with greater motoneuron excitability showed more cutaneous inhibition of the H-reflex recovery. A comparison of the H-reflex recovery at higher frequencies of cutaneous stimulation with that at basal frequency showed a slight but statistically insignificant difference in the amount of cutaneous inhibition of the H-reflex recovery. In hemiplegics, the &quot;basal&quot; H-reflex recovery curves showed greater motoneuron excitability on the affected side as compared to those of the unaffected side or controls, with the late inhibitory phase being completely obliterated. A similar pattern was also observed in paraplegics. Significantly, the lateral asymmetry of motoneuron excitability observed in the control group was absent in paraplegics. The cutaneous stimulation failed to produce any significant effect on the H-reflex recovery curves either in the affected side of hemiplegics or in both sides of paraplegics. The significant long latency inhibition of the H-reflex recovery curve produced by cutaneous tactile stimulation is a new finding.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Monoamine storage vesicles accumulate transmitters via an active transport process which presents similar pharmacological and bioenergetic properties in all monoaminergic systems. Using [3H]reserpine, a specific ligand of the vesicular monoamine transporter on isolated storage vesicles, we have determined the molecular turnover number of the monoamine transporter and found in various monoaminergic systems an identical value of 135 molecules of substrate transported per min. Using high performance liquid chromatography-electrochemical monoamine determination and the binding of [3H]dihydrotetrabenazine, a specific ligand of the vesicular monoamine transporter in tissue homogenates, we have measured the ratio of transmitter molecules per transporter in various rat tissues containing high amounts of monoamines. This ratio is about 500 in brain regions (striatum, hypothalamus, midbrain) and in the maxillary gland, it varies from 2000 to 7000 in sympathetic nerve terminals in the heart, brown adipose tissue and vas deferens, and it is 6000 in platelets and 280,000 in the adrenal medulla. The minimal time required in vivo for biogenic amine accumulation inside storage vesicles could be derived from these data. Values of 2-4 min were found for brain or maxillary gland synaptic vesicles, 15-50 min for heart, brown adipose tissue or vas deferens sympathetic vesicles and for platelet granules, and 35 h for adrenal medulla chromaffin granules. Thus the maturation time of monoaminergic vesicles, in terms of monoamine accumulation, is highly variable, being short in the brain and maxillary glands, 5-20-fold longer in the sympathetic nervous system and in platelets, and much increased in adrenals.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The functional behavior of embryonic chick sympathetic neurons was determined by inducing release of [3H]norepinephrine by electrical stimulation of sympathetic neurons growing in the chick heart and in culture, with and without heart cells. A very close correspondence between the functional behavior of neurons developing with the heart cells, either in vivo or in vitro, was demonstrated. For example, the outflow of tritium from [3H]norepinephrine loaded sympathetic neurons of 15-day-old chick heart was about three times more at 10 Hz than at 1 Hz. In contrast, the outflow of tritium from 12-day-old [3H]norepinephrine loaded cultured sympathetic neurons was inversely related to the frequency of stimulation (outflow at 1 Hz was about three time more than at 10 Hz). When neurons were co-cultured with the heart cells, the frequency-outflow relationship reverted to that seen in the intact heart. Electrically-evoked outflow of tritium from the heart was reduced in a concentration-dependent manner by 3-30 nM tetrodotoxin, abolished in 0.25 mM Ca medium, and potentiated by 3 mM tetraethylammonium. In sharp contrast, the outflow evoked by stimulation of cultured neurons was neither blocked by 30-300 nM tetrodotoxin, low Ca, nor potentiated by tetraethylammonium. However, when neurons were co-cultured with heart cells, the evoked outflow was blocked by 30 nM tetrodotoxin and low Ca, and potentiated by tetraethylammonium. Veratrine (10 microM) had very little effect on the outflow from cultured neurons but induced a massive outflow from co-cultures as well as hearts. Neurons grown in a medium conditioned by the heart cells were not sensitive to tetrodotoxin and veratrine. It is implied that cultured sympathetic neurons are endowed mostly with Ca channels, and that the Na channels become functional only when neurons are grown with the target cells. This dramatic alteration in the functional behavior of neurons co-cultured with heart cells indicates that the effector organ has an important role in the development of ionic conductances of sympathetic neurons growing in the body and in culture.
We attempted to identify synaptic glomeruli in the spinal substantia gelatinosa of rats by injecting distilled water into the subarachnoid space. The altered synaptic glomeruli were visualized when injecting 1.0 ml of distilled water, though the incidence of degenerative synaptic glomeruli was rare in the case of an injection of 0.5 ml or less. We assume that when the distilled water is injected, there is a sudden change in homeostatic balance in cerebrospinal fluid, following inhibition of nerve impulses in the dorsal root and the altered synaptic glomeruli. Ultrastructurally, the injection of distilled water led to a preferential degeneration of synaptic glomeruli derived from the C-fibers.
To ascertain the cellular associations of the D1 and D2 dopamine receptor subtypes in components of the basal ganglia, cats were prepared with unilateral, axon-sparing, ibotenic acid lesions of the striatum (n = 6) or lesions of the nigrostriatal dopamine system by intranigral infusion of 6-hydroxydopamine (n = 8). After 42 days survival, tissue sections from the brains were processed for quantitative, in vitro receptor autoradiography with [3H]SCH23390 (D1 radioligand) or [3H]spiroperidol (D2 radioligand). Lesion-induced changes in basal ganglia nuclei were assessed by comparing them to the corresponding nuclei on the intact side and in naive brains. Ibotenate lesions cause a decline in specific D1 and D2 receptor-binding in the area of the striatal lesion of 94% and 85%, respectively, and completely eliminate the uneven patterns of high- and low-density binding that are characteristic of the cat's caudate nucleus. The globus pallidus, entopeduncular nucleus and pars reticulata of the substantia nigra also show marked reductions in binding after striatal ibotenate lesions. Thus, after caudate nucleus lesions, D2 binding in the two pallidal segments declines by approximately 50%, but remains unchanged in the substantia nigra. Binding of the D1 radioligand (which is not measurable in the globus pallidus) declines by about 75% in the affected regions of the entopeduncular nucleus and pars reticulata, and by about 30% in the pars compacta. Lesions of the nigral dopamine neurons reduce D2 receptor-binding by 95% in the pars compacta and 40% in the pars reticulata, but have no effect on the concentration of D1 or D2 radioligand-binding in the striatum or pallidum. Moreover, such lesions failed to alter the uneven patterns of binding in the striatum. These data suggest that most, if not all, D1 receptors in the basal ganglia are associated with cells of the striatum and their axons in the entopeduncular nucleus and substantia nigra, and likewise, a large majority of D2 receptors are associated with striatal cells and their axons in pallidal structures. Nearly all D2 receptors in the substantia nigra are associated with dopamine neurons (autoreceptors). Finally, the heterogeneous patterns of D1 and D2 receptors in the striatum are a consequence of intrinsic neuronal distributions.
The participation of excitatory neurotransmitter systems in the basal ganglia in the initiation and propagation of limbic seizures induced by pilocarpine has been investigated in the rat. Limbic seizures (electrographic and motor) occur in rats receiving bilateral microinjections into the entopeduncular nucleus of 12.5 nmol N-methyl-D-aspartate or 0.1 nmol kainate, 15 min prior to a subconvulsant dose of pilocarpine (150 mg/kg, intraperitoneally). N-Methyl-D-aspartate (12.5 nmol) or kainate (0.5 nmol), injected alone bilaterally into the entopeduncular nucleus, induce sniffing and grooming but no electrographic or behavioural seizures. Limbic seizures also occur after a subconvulsant dose of pilocarpine when it is preceded by injection of N-methyl-D-aspartate (12.5 nmol) or kainate (0.5 or 2 nmol) into the dorsal striatum. Behavioural and electrographic signs of limbic seizures following pilocarpine (380 mg/kg) are suppressed by the focal microinjection into the entopeduncular nucleus of the N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist, 2-amino-7-phosphonoheptanoate (0.02 nmol) or the kainate antagonist, gamma-D-glutamylamino-methylsulphonate (40 nmol). Seizure threshold within the limbic system is modulated by excitatory systems controlling basal ganglia outputs. The relative importance of N-methyl-D-aspartate and non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor systems varies between different components of the basal ganglia.
Atrial natriuretic factor is detectable in the peripheral autonomic ganglia of the rat by radioimmunoassay and immunohistochemistry. In the present study, surgical and neurochemical methods were used to evaluate the source of this peptide in sympathetic ganglia. Decentralization of the ganglia and/or central administration of colchicine diminished the atrial natriuretic factor content in para- and prevertebral ganglia. Axotomy did not affect levels of ganglionic atrial natriuretic factor. A messenger ribonucleic acid species hybridizing with rat atrial natriuretic factor complementary deoxyribonucleic acid was not found within the total ribonucleic acid extracted from superior cervical ganglia. These results indicate a direct dependence of ganglionic atrial natriuretic factor on cholinergic innervation.
The effect of unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the medial forebrain bundle on the specific binding of [125I]iodosulpride and [125I]SCH 23982 in the rat substantia nigra was determined by quantitative autoradiography of adjacent sections. The specific binding of [125I]iodosulpride was reduced by 40-70% on the lesioned side in the substantia nigra pars compacta, reticulata, lateralis and in the ventral tegmental area. In contrast, the specific [125I]SCH 23982 binding was unchanged in all subdivisions of the substantia nigra. The results indicate that dopamine autoreceptors are present in the substantia nigra and in the ventral tegmental area and that they are exclusively of the D2 type.
A quantitative electron-microscopic analysis has been conducted on the neurons within the gustatory zone of the nucleus of the solitary tract of the hamster. The most common group of neurons within the gustatory zone contains both large (X1) and small (X3) members that possess deeply invaginated nuclear profiles. These neurons have somal areas that average 113 micron2 (range 34-281 micron2) and a value of somal area/nuclear area that averages 2.2. Other large and small neurons that have non-invaginated nuclear profiles are also observed. The larger (X2) neurons average 151 micron2 (range 49-487 micron2) and have much cytoplasm and associated membranous organelles that is reflected in a mean value of somal area/nuclear area of 2.6. Members of the X2 group are the largest neurons in the gustatory zone. The smaller (X4) group contains the smallest neurons in the gustatory zone of the nucleus of the solitary tract, averages 50 micron2 (range 16-103 micron2), shows almost no perinuclear cytoplasm and has a mean value of somal area/nuclear area of only 1.5. These findings are consistent with and expand upon the results of similar studies at the light-microscopic level. This grouping has been used to explore the association of tyrosine hydroxylase-like and dopamine beta-hydroxylase-like immunoreactivities with specific populations of neurons that are known to be distributed across the various levels of the gustatory zone. At the light-microscopic level, numerous well-defined and intensely labelled tyrosine hydroxylase-like immunoreactive somata of various morphologies and sizes are observed. Quantification at the electron-microscopic level indicates that 10-15% of the neurons encountered in the dorsal and intermediate levels of the gustatory zone are immunoreactive. The ventral level of the gustatory zone contains few immunoreactive neurons. Tyrosine hydroxylase-like immunoreactive neurons possess either non-invaginated or invaginated nuclear profiles and their somal areas average 106 and 142 micron2, respectively. On the bases of size and ultrastructural features, these immunoreactive somata are assigned to the two groups (X1 and X2) of large neurons within the gustatory portion of the nucleus of the solitary tract. In general, small neurons are not immunoreactive. The distribution of dopamine beta-hydroxylase-like immunoreactivity has also been examined in adjacent sections in order to reveal the presence of any putative noradrenergic neurons in the gustatory zone.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The effects of various psychotropic drugs (benzodiazepines, antidepressants, neuroleptics and nootropic drugs, a family of cognition activator agents) on firing rates of septohippocampal neurons, identified by electrical antidromic stimulation, were studied in the medial septum-nucleus of the diagonal band of Broca of rats anaesthetized with urethan. Extracellular potentials from single septohippocampal neurons were recorded using glass pipettes. Drugs were applied by either microiontophoresis or intravenous injections (i.v.). Benzodiazepines produced a marked depression of spontaneous firing rates of septohippocampal neurons whether applied i.v. (diazepam) or iontophoretically (flurazepam, midazolam). In addition, diazepam had a potent depressant effect on the rhythmically bursting activity of the septohippocampal neurons. Baclofen also had an inhibitory effect. Antidepressant drugs (applied by iontophoresis) as well as amphetamine, had a depressant effect on spontaneous firing rates. Neuroleptics (i.v.) had less significant or consistent effects on septohippocampal neurons, although the effects of haloperidol were usually inhibitory. Nootropic drugs were generally ineffective. These data indicate that most psychotropic drugs tested (with the exception of nootropic drugs) have an inhibitory effect on the spontaneous activity of septohippocampal neurons. However, benzodiazepines seem to be more active than antidepressants or neuroleptics. Oxotremorine (i.v.) had a potent excitatory effect on septohippocampal neurons. Atropine (i.v.) increased the septohippocampal neurons' firing rate in some cases. These results are discussed in view of the possible implication of the involvement of septohippocampal neurons in the mediation of the effects of psychotropic drugs on the central nervous system and, more specifically, on the cholinergic systems.
We investigated quantitative changes in possible neurotransmitters and their biosynthetic enzymes in the contralateral striatum and both substantia nigrae following unilateral electrothermic lesions of the striatum in the rat. Two types of changes were observed: (1) the first ones were long-lasting (up to 56 post-operative days) effects and consisted in a decrease of GABA content and tyrosine hydroxylase activity in the ipsilateral substantia nigra due to the anterograde and retrograde degeneration of striatal efferent and afferent fibres, respectively, and in a marked increase of glutamate and GABA contents in the contralateral striatum resulting possibly from a modified activity of the collaterals of the glutamatergic corticostriatal fibres and a subsequent secondary increase of GABA. The latter interpretation was supported by the finding that the changes observed were abolished by an additional callosal transection; (2) the second series of changes were transient (only found at 3-7 post-operative days) effects represented by an increase in GABA content, a decrease of tyrosine hydroxylase activity, and a decrease of dopamine content, which mostly appeared in the contralateral substantia nigra. The decrease of dopamine markers may be a subsequent secondary effect of the increase of GABA in the substantia nigra. These results suggest that the contralateral increase of the amino acid transmitters in the striatum and the increase followed by decrease of transmitter markers in the contralateral substantia nigra could be a &quot;plastic&quot; or &quot;compensatory&quot; biochemical response to the unilateral striatal lesions.
Endopeptidase-24.11 (sometimes referred to as 'enkephalinase') is a key cell-surface enzyme in the metabolism of neuropeptides. A previous immunohistochemical study mapped the enzyme in pig brain and indicated a striosomal ordering of the enzyme within the striatum. This point has now been confirmed by staining adjacent sections for acetylcholinesterase (by histochemistry) and endopeptidase-24.11 (by an immunoperoxidase method). While there were some general similarities in the mapping of these two hydrolases, e.g. in the caudate-putamen, globus pallidus, olfactory tubercle, substantia nigra and striatonigral tract, there were differences in intensity and in the microscopic distribution, e.g. as in striosomes for which acetylcholinesterase was diminished. Two other membrane peptidases, peptidyl dipeptidase A ('angiotensin converting enzyme') and aminopeptidase N, were also mapped by the same immunohistochemical method. Peptidyl dipeptidase A had some similarities with endopeptidase-24.11, e.g. in its concentration within the striatal nuclei, but clear differences were also apparent, in particular the absence of staining of the former in the globus pallidus and olfactory tubercle. Immunostaining for aminopeptidase N, in contrast to the other peptidases, was observed as a diffuse staining throughout the gray matter. At the microscopic level, two important differences were that staining for aminopeptidase N and peptidyl dipeptidase A was very intense throughout the vasculature of the brain and that striatal efferent bundles of unmyelinated fibres staining positively for endopeptidase-24.11 were depleted of the other two peptidases. All three peptidases were identified in the pia mater. Thus, endopeptidase-24.11, unlike peptidyl dipeptidase A and aminopeptidase N, is a marker for a set of striatal efferent fibres in pig brain.
Tyrosine hydroxylase-like, dopamine- and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein (Mr = 32,000)-like and enkephalin-like immunoreactive profiles and their codistribution have been evaluated at three rostrocaudal levels of the rat neostriatum by means of a computer-assisted morphometrical method, which allows an objective definition of high density/intensity patches using specific antibodies in combination with the peroxidase-antiperoxidase technique. Our results show that both tyrosine hydroxylase-like, dopamine- and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein-like and enkephalin-like profiles are organized in patches in the rat neostriatum. In the marginal zone, the tyrosine hydroxylase-like immunoreactive and dopamine- and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein-like immunoreactive patches both occupied a large part of the total area. Moreover, in this zone, these putative markers for pre- and postsynaptic elements of dopaminergic synapses also showed a complete spatial overlap. In contrast, the enkephalin-like immunoreactive patches in the marginal zone occupied a smaller area, and showed only an incomplete, albeit significant overlap with the tyrosine hydroxylase-like immunoreactive/dopamine- and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein-like immunoreactive system. In the central zone, tyrosine hydroxylase-like immunoreactive, dopamine- and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein-like immunoreactive and enkephalin-like immunoreactive patches occupied a much smaller part of the total area than did those in the marginal zone. Within the central zone, enkephalin-like immunoreactive patches occupied a significantly larger area than did the tyrosine hydroxylase-like immunoreactive and dopamine- and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein-like immunoreactive patches. No consistent pattern of overlap between the three different staining patterns could be seen in the central zone, probably due to the small, inconsistent size of the patches. Trend analysis showed a consistent trend of more tyrosine hydroxylase-like immunoreactive and dopamine- and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein-like immunoreactive patches in the dorsal than in the ventral striatum, and a trend of more enkephalin-like immunoreactive patches in the rostral than in the caudal striatum. Our data thus demonstrate that, by using computer-assisted morphometrical techniques, it is possible to describe a non-homogenous but overlapping distribution of tyrosine hydroxylase-like immunoreactive and dopamine- and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein-like immunoreactive patches in the rat neostriatum.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
DT diaphorase [NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase] activity was measured in subcellular fractions from homogenates of striatum, frontal cortex, hippocampus, cerebellum, hypothalamus and substantia nigra. This flavoprotein, which by definition oxidizes dihydronicotinamide adenine dinucleotide and dihydronicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate at equal rates and is completely inhibited by 10(-5) M dicoumarol, was found to constitute 80-90% of the total dihydronicotinamide adenine dinucleotide- and dihydronicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-reductase activities in all brain regions studied. Antibodies raised against purified cytosolic DT diaphorase from the rat liver cross-reacted with the brain enzyme and inhibited soluble DT diaphorase from striatum and cerebellum to 80-90%. Immunohistochemical studies with the same antibodies demonstrated the occurrence of DT diaphorase immunoreactivity in a population of neurons in the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area. In some neurons there was a colocalization of DT diaphorase and tyrosine hydroxylase-like immunoreactivity. The dense network of DT diaphorase-immunoreactive fibres in the striatum disappeared along with the dopaminergic innervation after 6-hydroxydopamine lesion. DT diaphorase immunoreactivity was also found in Bergmann glia, astrocytes and tanycytes. No correlation appeared to exist between the localization of neuronal DT diaphorase immunoreactivity and the dihydronicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase-like activity, as defined by tetrazolium salt staining, used as a marker for certain peptidergic and cholinergic neurons. However, in, for example, glial cells in the cerebellum, DT diaphorase might contribute or be responsible for the histochemical dihydronicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase activity.
Single channels activated by externally applied ATP were investigated in cultured sensory neurons from nodosal and spinal ganglia of rat using patch clamp and concentration clamp methods. Mean conductance of single ATP-activated channels was 17 pS when measured at a holding potential of -75 mV in saline containing 3 mM Ca2+ and 1 mM Mg2+. Sublevels of conductance were detected in some cases. The current-voltage relationship for a single channel is highly non-linear and demonstrates inwardly directed rectification. The I-V curve obtained for single channels was identical to that for macroscopic current. ATP activated the channels in the absence of divalent cations (in ethylenediaminetetra-acetate-containing medium) as well as in their presence. This indicates that ATP as a free anion can activate the receptor. Ca2+ ions decreased both macro- and microscopic ATP-activated currents. The concentration dependence of this Ca2+ effect does not fit a single site binding isotherm. The single channel current demonstrated prominent fluctuations. When measured in the 0-4 kHz frequency band the amplitude of fluctuations evaluated as a double r.m.s. was about 30% of the mean amplitude of current. The autocorrelation function for the current fluctuations in an open channel could be approximated by a single exponential with the time constant of 0.4 ms. These fluctuations did not depend on the presence of divalent cations in the external medium. The open time distribution for the investigated channels could be described by a sum of two exponentials. Presumably this reflects the existence of two subtypes of ATP-activated channels.
The physiological role of two types of autoreceptors, alpha 1- and alpha 2-adrenoceptors, located on the somadendritic membranes of locus coeruleus neurons, was studied in the developing and adult rat brain. Animals from birth to adulthood were anesthetized with urethan, and single-unit activity was recorded extracellularly in the locus coeruleus. The spontaneous firing of most locus coeruleus neurons was inhibited by iontophoretic application of noradrenaline at a high concentration, while noradrenaline at a low concentration frequently caused excitation of the neurons, predominantly in the developing brain. A similar excitation was also produced by iontophoretic application of the alpha 1-agonist phenylephrine. These excitations were antagonized by the alpha 1-antagonist, 2-beta [4-hydroxyphenylethylaminomethyl]-tetralone, while this antagonist had little effect on glutamate-induced excitation. The noradrenaline- and phenylephrine-induced excitation occurred more frequently in the neurons having little or no spontaneous activity. Electrical stimulation of the dorsal noradrenergic bundle arising in the locus coeruleus produced both inhibition and excitation. The excitatory responses were manifest primarily in early developmental stages, and occurred predominantly when the neurons had little or no spontaneous activity. When the neurons began firing at relatively high rates, the effects of dorsal noradrenergic bundle stimulation became principally inhibitory. Since the excitation evoked by dorsal noradrenergic bundle of stimulation was blocked by the alpha 1-antagonist, the excitation was thought to result from activation of alpha 1-adrenoceptors by noradrenaline released from the terminals of recurrent axon collaterals of locus coeruleus neurons themselves.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Conditions have been optimized for an immunohistochemical procedure for the localization of nerve growth factor receptor-containing cells in the brain. Using this immunohistochemical procedure, the normal morphology and distribution of the nerve growth factor receptor-containing neurons of the adult rat forebrain have been studied, and the findings compared with observations on the choline acetyltransferase-positive neurons present either in the immediately-adjacent sections or in the medially-divided half of the same section. Unlike in the peripheral nervous system, only neurons showed immunoreactivity to the nerve growth factor receptor in the brain. Both the nerve growth factor receptor- and choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive cells appear to form a continuous anteroposterior band, which includes the olfactory tubercle, the medial septal nucleus, the vertical and horizontal limbs of the diagonal band and the basal nucleus. In each subdivision of the basal forebrain, the topographic organization, the localization, the intensity of the immunoreaction and the total cell number of nerve growth factor receptor- and of choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive neurons were strikingly similar, indicating that nearly all nerve growth factor receptor-containing cells were cholinergic neurons. However, in the striatum, only about half the number of the choline acetyltransferase-positive cells showed immunopositive reactions to the nerve growth factor receptor, and, also, in the nerve growth factor receptor-containing neurons the intensity of the reaction product was much less than the choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity. In the neurons of the basal forebrain nuclei, the choline acetyltransferase immunoreaction product was uniformly distributed on the cell bodies, while the nerve growth factor receptor immunoreaction product was present also as intensely stained granules on the cell somata and the dendrites. The mean diameter and the mean cross-sectional area of the nerve growth factor receptor-containing neurons were least in the medial septal nucleus and were greatest in the basal nucleus, and showed a gradation in cell size going from the medial septal nucleus through the nucleus of the diagonal band and extending more posteriorly to the basal nucleus.
Autoradiography has been used to examine the distribution of opioid binding subtypes in the bovine adrenal gland. Specific opioid binding sites were restricted to the adrenal medulla. Kappa sites, labelled with [3H]bremazocine (in the presence of excess unlabelled mu and delta ligands), were highly concentrated over nerve tracts. These nerve tract associated binding sites were sensitive to competition by the endogenous opioid, dynorphin (1-13). Specific [3H]bremazocine binding sites were also found over the adrenal medullary chromaffin tissue. These binding sites were concentrated over the peripheral, adrenaline-containing region of the medulla and were sensitive to competition by diprenorphine but not dynorphin (1-13). Delta opioid sites, labelled with [3H][D-Ala2,D-Leu5] enkephalin (in the presence of excess unlabelled mu ligand) were selectively localized to the central, noradrenaline-containing region of the adrenal medulla. Mu opioid sites, labelled with [3H][D-Ala2, NMePhe4,Gly-ol5]enkephalin, were low in number and distributed throughout the adrenal medulla. These studies demonstrate that mu, delta and two distinct kappa opioid binding sites are differently distributed within the bovine adrenal medulla and suggest possible new sites of action for the adrenal medullary opioid peptides.
The short-term effects of bath applied calmodulin antagonists--chlorpromazine, trifluoperazine and calmidazolium (R24571)--on potential-dependent calcium channels in the membrane of intracellularly perfused snail neurons were studied in voltage clamp conditions. All the drugs affected the calcium inward current peak value, the effects being reversible and dependent on the concentration used. Submicromolar concentrations (0.1-1 microM) increased the current amplitude (the maximal effect was on the average 20% at 0.5 microM), whereas higher concentrations inhibited the current. Analysis of the dose-effect curve for the blockade suggests positive cooperativity in the interaction of the drugs with the channel; experimental data on chlorpromazine action (10-100 microM) are well approximated by a binding curve for two molecules with the effective Kd = 70 microM. The efficiency of the blockade depended neither on the current-carrying cations (calcium or barium) nor on the intracellular introduction of 10 mM EGTA. The presence of calmodulin antagonists influenced the blockade of the calcium current by inorganic blockers: 50 microM chlorpromazine decreased the Kd value from 90 to 50 microM for the current blockade by Cd ions. It is suggested that calmodulin antagonists interact with two sites in the calcium channel, with high and low binding affinity (responsible for enhancement and inhibition of the current, respectively). The interaction induces changes in binding of penetrating cations in the channel, thereby producing modulation of the calcium current amplitude.
Miniature endplate potentials were recorded from edge muscle fibers of frog sartorius muscles during high frequencies induced with K-propionate and during recovery. The identified neuromuscular junctions were studied with the electron microscope and their ultrastructure was correlated with amplitude and numbers of miniature endplate potentials generated. Miniature endplate potential amplitudes were maintained during the first 10 min of depolarization. They then decreased during the next 2-3 h until the mode was lost to the noise. Miniature endplate potential frequency was greatly increased during the first hour and there was initial depletion of vesicles. Miniature endplate potential frequencies remained high (5 x 10(5)/h) for 3 h but vesicle densities returned to nearly normal values during the second to third hour of treatment. The conspicuous infolding of the presynaptic membrane noted during the first hour of treatment suggests that recycling of vesicles is initially slower than fusion. Calculated recycling time is shorter than 25 min. During recovery after prolonged K-propionate treatment, the sub-miniature endplate potential class reappeared within minutes but about 20 min were required before it returned to control size. Subsequently, the bell-miniature endplate potentials reappeared and slowly increased in amplitude. The ultrastructure returned to a normal state. There was no change in vesicle diameters. No significant difference was found between the diameters of &quot;touching vesicles&quot; (vesicles touching the presynaptic membrane) and the non-touching vesicles. By comparison, lanthanum ions (1 mM) released a smaller number of quanta which did not exceed the number of vesicles present at the start of the experiment. Variations of the subunit hypothesis of the quantum of transmitter release are discussed.
Denervation-induced changes in the synaptic efficacy of single electroreceptors in catfish (Ictalurus nebulosus, Teleostei) were studied in vivo under alfadolone anaesthesia. At 16 degrees C the following effects were found 48 h post-operatively: (1) the average amplitude of the extra-dermally recorded spikes decreased from 100 to less than 20 microV; (2) the average resting discharge decreased from 40 to less than 25 spikes/s; (3) neither the sensitivity nor the frequency characteristic changed. The results indicate that the resting discharge and the modulation mechanism of sensory synapses are controlled by different biochemical mechanisms. The resting discharge seems to be related to the trophic function of the afferent nerve and to its generator region, whereas the modulation mechanism is apparently associated with the receptor cell.
Experiments were carried out on cultured sympathetic neurons of the chick embryo; first, to demonstrate the presence of adrenergic and dopaminergic receptors, and then to see if these receptors are involved in regulation of transmitter release. We show that alpha 2-agonists, norepinephrine, epinephrine and clonidine, had no effect on neuronal cyclic 3',5'-adenosine monophosphate content. Forskolin enhanced neuronal cyclic 3',5'-adenosine monophosphate from a control value of about 20 pmoles/mg protein to 150 pmoles/mg protein. In the presence of alpha 2-agonists and forskolin the cyclic 3,5'-adenosine monophosphate content increased between 340 and 430 pmoles/mg protein. The alpha 1-agonist, phenylephrine, had no such effect. The facilitatory effect of alpha 2-agonist on forskolin-stimulated cyclic 3',5'-adenosine monophosphate production was blocked by the alpha 2-antagonist, yohimbine, but not the alpha 1-agonist, prazosin. Dopamine did not affect neuronal cyclic 3',5'-adenosine monophosphate content, but forskolin-stimulated increase in cyclic 3',5'-adenosine monophosphate was further facilitated by dopamine, and this effect was blocked by haloperidol. Activation of neuronal alpha 2-receptors by norepinephrine, epinephrine and clonidine did not interfere with electrically induced release of tritium from [3H]-norepinephrine-loaded sympathetic neurons. However, if sympathetic neurons were co-cultured with heart cells, clonidine, norepinephrine and epinephrine markedly inhibited the stimulation-induced release. Yohimbine or phentolamine partially reversed the inhibitory effects of alpha 2-agonists. alpha 2-Agonists and -antagonists also modified stimulation-induced release of tritium from [3H]norepinephrine-loaded hearts of the chick embryo.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The peroxidase-antiperoxidase method was used to study the distribution of substance P and enkephalin during development of the spinal cords of human fetuses. Thirty-seven cases were collected, ranging from 5- to 40-weeks-old (fetal ages). Both types of transmitters were present initially around the fifth week in the mantle layer of the base of the dorsal horn, around the tenth week at the anterior gray and the intermediate gray and around the sixth week at the marginal layer at the base of the ventrolateral funiculus. Substance P- and enkephalin-positive sites at the marginal layers at the base of the dorsolateral funiculus were evident in the same area at 5-6 weeks. The positive fibers in the dorsal horn were initially located in the superficial layers. By the eleventh week, the positive sites spread to other surface layers at the lateral sides of the dorsal horns bilaterally at all spinal levels above the sacral. In the sacral levels adjacent to the conus medullaris, the spreading to surface layers was not apparent bilaterally until the seventeenth week. By weeks 18-26 the positive sites penetrated deeper in the dorsal horn and by week 27 assumed the adult path. The enkephalin cell bodies were present in the Rexed layers I and II of the dorsal horn and the substance P-positive sites were apparent in the dorsal ganglia of the 28-40-week-old fetuses.
The coexistence of immunoreactivity to the peptides substance P, bombesin, calcitonin gene-related peptide and somatostatin has been determined in single, lumbar and sacral dorsal root ganglion cells in the cat. Colchicine pretreated L7 and S1 dorsal root ganglia were embedded in wax and cut into 5 microns sections. Groups of four, serially adjacent sections were reacted with antisera to one of four peptides using avidin-biotin immunocytochemistry. It was thus possible to determine the coincidence of the four peptides in single cell bodies by examining the immunoreactivity in a ganglion cell in one section and then locating the same cell in three adjacent sections. As a comparison, this procedure was repeated on a different population of ganglion cells using antiserum to substance P, bombesin and calcitonin gene-related peptide only. The results indicate that different combinations of three or four peptides may occur in single, small diameter sensory neurons in the cat. It would appear that immunoreactivity to bombesin and/or calcitonin gene-related peptide coexists with immunoreactivity to substance P in some dorsal root ganglion cells. However, immunoreactivity to each of these peptides was also found to occur alone in single cells. Immunoreactivity to calcitonin gene-related peptide but not to the other three peptides was found to occur in some medium-sized cell bodies (up to 70 microns). Somatostatin-like immunoreactivity was found to have a high level of coexistence with substance P-like immunoreactivity in cells which contained immunoreactivity to these two peptides only. Immunoreactivity to all the four peptides tested was found to occur in 18-26% of ganglion cells which contained at least one peptide.
The distribution of immunoreactive cholecystokinin, substance P, [Met]enkephalin, [Leu]-enkephalin and dynorphin was determined in the cerebral cortex of the human brain post mortem. Peptide radioimmunoassays in three selected zones of the cortical gray mantle (frontal, temporal, occipital) revealed significant regional differences, prompting to the development of a new dissection procedure for the complete mapping of peptide-like materials throughout the entire cerebral cortex. For this purpose, frozen cerebral hemispheres were cut rostrocaudally in 21 verticofrontal serial sections, from which the cortical gray matter was divided into 4-5 distinct zones. The peptides could be measured in each of the 93 dissected pieces of tissue, but their distribution was uneven. The most abundant was cholecystokinin, particularly in the anterior part of the frontal lobe and in the temporal cortex, where its levels reached 0.5 ng/mg of tissue. The regional distribution of cholecystokinin resembled that of substance P with a decreasing gradient from the frontal to the occipital pole, but absolute levels of substance P were hardly one tenth of cholecystokinin levels. The mean concentrations of the three opioid peptides were even less than those of substance P, and their regional distributions were markedly different. [Met]Enkephalin was concentrated in the occipital cortex, and [Leu]enkephalin in the temporal cortex. Dynorphin was the least abundant, even in the temporal cortex where the highest levels were found. The widespread and heterogeneous distribution of these peptides strongly suggests that each of them exerts specific functions in the human cerebral cortex.
In the present study, peripheral administration of naloxone hydrochloride (IP) was employed to identify the role of endogenous opioid peptides in the regulation of two forms of aggressive behavior in the cat--affective defense and quiet biting attack behavior. These forms of aggressive behavior were elicited by electrical stimulation of dorsal and ventral aspects of the midbrain periaqueductal gray, respectively, utilizing monopolar electrodes. Following the establishment of stable baseline thresholds for affective defense and quiet biting attack behavior, naloxone (0.5, 1.0, 4.0 and 7.0 mg/kg) and saline (vehicle control) were administered peripherally (IP). The response thresholds were tested 5-30, 30-60, 60-90, 180-210 and 1440-1470 min following naloxone administration. These results indicated that a dose level of 7.0 mg/kg of naloxone had a profound facilitatory effect on affective defense behavior. Response threshold values returned to prenaloxone baseline levels at 1440-1470 min postinjection. Administration of lower doses of naloxone (1.0 and 4.0 mg/kg) also resulted in a significant facilitation of this response but of shorter durations. Neither the lowest dose of naloxone (0.5 mg/kg) nor saline (vehicle control) were effective in modifying the threshold for affective defense behavior. In contrast, when tested for its effects upon quiet biting attack, the maximum dose utilized in this study (7.0 mg/kg) tended to suppress this response although the overall effect was not significant. The selective dose-dependent facilitatory effects of naloxone upon affective defense behavior in the cat suggests that the opioid peptide system plays a significant (inhibitory) role in the regulation of this response.




Brain src protooncogene is expressed in two forms, one identical to message in other tissues, and one containing an 18-nucleotide insert specific to brain. We have mapped mRNA for the two forms of src in rat brain with selective antisense oligonucleotide probes to the brain (src+) and peripheral (src-) forms. Fetal rat src mRNA levels were much higher in the central nervous system than any peripheral organ. In adult brain, src+ mRNA level was highest in the internal granular layer of the olfactory bulb, pyramidal cells of the hippocampus, granule cells of the dentate gyrus, and cerebellar granule cells. src+ and src- levels were similar in hindbrain, but src+ levels were higher than those of src- in forebrain. These distributions suggest that src+ may play roles in a number of neural processes, possibly including neuronal plasticity.
Fetal rat brain cell suspensions prepared from either the locus coeruleus region or hippocampus were implanted bilaterally into the subcortically denervated seizure-prone hippocampus of adult rats. Animals with locus coeruleus grafts were protected against picrotoxin-induced behavioral seizures and had significantly fewer interictal spikes. In contrast, in rats with fetal hippocampal grafts the incidence of interictal spikes was significantly higher than in lesion-only controls, and spontaneous behavioral seizures occurred in almost half of the animals. We suggest that neuronal grafting offers an alternative method for studying the mechanisms and control of epileptic brain activity.
Galanin coexists with acetylcholine in medial septal neurons projecting to the ventral hippocampus, a projection thought to modulate memory functions. Neurochemical lesions of the nucleus basalis-medial septal area in rats impaired choice accuracy on a delayed alternation t-maze task. Acetylcholine (7.5 or 10 micrograms intraventricularly or 1 micrograms micro-injected into the ventral hippocampus) significantly improved performance in the lesioned rats. Atropine (5 mg/kg intraperitoneally or 10 micrograms intraventricularly), but not mecamylamine (3 mg/kg intraperitoneally or 20 micrograms intraventricularly), blocked this action of acetylcholine, suggesting involvement of a muscarinic receptor. Galanin (100-500 ng intraventricularly or 200 ng into the ventral hippocampus) attenuated the ability of acetylcholine to reverse the deficit in working memory in the lesioned rats. The antagonistic interaction between galanin and acetylcholine suggests that endogenous galanin may inhibit cholinergic function in memory processes, particularly in pathologies such as Alzheimer disease that involve degeneration of basal forebrain neurons.

The photoaffinity ligand [3H]PK 14105 was utilized to modify covalently peripheral-type benzodiazepine binding sites in rat adrenal mitochondrial preparations. The photolabeled membrane preparations were then solubilized in 1% digitonin and the detergent-soluble extracts subjected to fractionation by ion-exchange chromatography and reversed-phase high performance liquid chromatography. This scheme resulted in the purification of the putative binding site protein for PK 14105 which we have entitled PKBS. Purified preparations of PKBS exhibited a single band with a Mr of approximately 17,000 when analyzed by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis followed by silver-staining or autoradiographic detection. Additional criteria examining the purity of PKBS preparations were provided by radioiodination with Bolton-Hunter reagent, amino acid analysis, gas-phase sequencing, and reversed-phase chromatography suggesting that this protein was purified to apparent homogeneity. These results demonstrate that a protein associated with peripheral-type benzodiazepine recognition sites has been isolated thus facilitating more direct studies on the structure of this receptor and on the role of these binding sites in mediating responses elicited by benzodiazepines acting at these sites.
The autophosphorylation of purified Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (Ca2+/CaM kinase II) on a threonine-containing phosphopeptide common to both the alpha and beta subunits was previously shown to convert this enzyme into a catalytically active Ca2+-independent species. We now have examined the phosphorylation and activation of Ca2+/CaM kinase II in synaptosomes, a Ca2+-dependent neurosecretory system consisting of isolated nerve terminals. Synaptosomes were prelabeled with 32Pi and the alpha subunit of Ca2+/CaM kinase II was immunoprecipitated. Under basal incubation conditions the alpha subunit was phosphorylated. Depolarization of synaptosomes produced a rapid (2-5 s) Ca2+-dependent increase of about 50% in the state of phosphorylation of the alpha subunit. This was followed by a slower increase in the 32P content of the alpha subunit over the next 5 min of depolarization. The enhanced phosphorylation was characterized by an initial rise (2 s) and subsequent decrease (30 s) in the phosphothreonine content of the alpha subunit. In contrast, the phosphoserine content of the alpha subunit slowly increased during the course of depolarization. Thermolytic two-dimensional phosphopeptide maps of the alpha subunit demonstrated that depolarization stimulated the labeling of a phosphopeptide associated with autoactivation. In parallel experiments, unlabeled synaptosomes were depolarized, and lysates of these synaptosomes were assayed for Ca2+/CaM kinase II activity. Depolarization produced a rapid (less than or equal to 2 s) increase in Ca2+-independent Ca2+/CaM kinase II activity. This activity returned to basal levels by 60 s. Thus, depolarization of intact synaptosomes is associated with the transient phosphorylation of Ca2+/CaM kinase II on threonine residues, presumably involving an autophosphorylation mechanism and concomitantly the transient generation of the Ca2+-independent form of Ca2+/CaM kinase II.
As a comparison to previous analyses of purified amyloid plaque cores from Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain, we performed protein chemical and immunocytochemical studies on amyloid filaments extracted from meningeal blood vessels of patients with Alzheimer's disease. Results were compared with those obtained from identically prepared fractions of aged normals without cerebral amyloid angiopathy or other microscopic findings of AD. The amyloid isolation method of Glenner and Wong was modified, including an extraction with sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS). Gel electrophoresis of purified amyloid from AD meninges yielded bands centered at 4.2 kDa. Sequencing of the HPLC-purified amyloid protein from AD meninges confirmed the published beta-protein sequence for residues 1-30 and 35-40, with the exception of glutamic acid rather than glutamine at position 11. N-terminal heterogeneity was not prominent. No sequence beyond residue 40 was obtained. Proteins of similar but not identical mol. wt. were present in HPLC-purified fractions of normal meninges; neither the beta-protein sequence nor any other interpretable sequence was detected in such fractions. Two antisera raised against the purified AD meningovascular amyloid protein identified the 4.2 kDa band on Western blots of AD preparations; no protein band in this region was labeled in control preparations. The 4.2 kDa band in AD meningeal preparations was also lableled by an antiserum to synthetic beta-peptide but not by an antiserum to the carboxyl terminus of the beta-protein precursor. Both the AD meningovascular amyloid antisera selectively labeled amyloid in cortical and meningeal vessels and plaque cores; tangles, plaque neurites, and cells of normal CNS and numerous non-neural tissues were unstained. The antisera also labeled the occasional deposits of vascular amyloid and less frequent plaque core amyloid found in some aged individuals without AD. We conclude that (1) the meningovascular amyloid beta-protein of AD, whose sequence has been confirmed and extended to residue 40, was not immunocytochemically detectable in neurofibrillary tangles; (2) beta-protein could not be detected in meningeal preparations from aged controls who lack light microscopically visible meningovascular amyloid; and (3) the vascular and plaque core amyloid present in aged normals is antigenically cross-reactive with AD meningovascular amyloid.
By using a combination of monoclonal antibodies to progestin receptors and a double-bridge peroxidase-antiperoxidase technique, a sensitive immunocytochemical method was developed for visualizing progestin receptor immunoreactivity (PR-IR) in brains of estrogen-primed guinea pigs. PR-IR neurons were observed throughout the hypothalamus and preoptic area. They were seen in largest numbers in the arcuate nucleus, periventricular preoptic regions, medial preoptic nucleus, medial preoptic area and in the ventrolateral area of the hypothalamus. Lower numbers of PR-IR positive cells were detected in the bed nucleus of stria terminalis, paraventricular nucleus and lateral hypothalamus with scattered cells seen throughout the hypothalamus and preoptic area. The PR-IR was mostly intranuclear with lighter staining in neuronal processes. Electron microscopy confirmed the predominantly intranuclear localization and further demonstrated that the reaction product was dispersed throughout the nucleus, but not associated with the nucleolus. Few PR-IR cells were observed in the absence of estradiol priming, and the reaction product was much lighter than in the presence of estradiol. Progesterone injection was without apparent effect on intensity of the PR-IR.
Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) microinfusion of epidermal growth factor (EGF), basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) and platelet factor 4 (PF4) suppressed 2 h and nighttime food intake in rats. The following daytime food intake did not change or increased. I.c.v. infusion of platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) suppressed only 2 h food intake. I.c.v. infusion of bovine serum albumin (BSA), nerve growth factor (NGF), or inactivated EGF, bFGF and PF4 had no effect. Intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration of EGF, bFGF, PF4 and PDGF in doses equivalent to or higher than those administered centrally had no effect. The results suggest a central action of growth factors and platelet peptides on feeding regulation.
Electrical stimulation of the perforant path produces a characteristic population EPSP and population spike in the dentate gyrus of the anesthetized rat. Parenteral administration of a serotonin releasing drug D-fenfluramine (FFA) caused a marked (30-100%) and highly significant increase in dentate gyrus population spike response to perforant path stimulation without affecting the slope of the population excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP). This indicates that FFA modifies granular cell excitability to afferent stimulation. The facilitatory effect of FFA was not present in rats depleted of serotonin following treatment with the synthesis inhibitor p-chlorophenylalanine (PCPA) but was restored after restoration of serotonin synthesis with the precursor 5-hydroxytryptophan indicating that presence of serotonin in terminals is required for the action of FFA.
The nicotinic acetylcholine channel blockers mecamylamine (MECA) and pempidine (PEMP) blocked voltage-clamped isolated catfish retina cone horizontal responses to aspartate (Asp) and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) but had little effect on currents induced by kainate and quisqualate. Concentration response curves for NMDA and Asp in the presence of MECA suggested that MECA was a non-competitive inhibitor of NMDA and Asp responses. Further, the MECA and PEMP block of NMDA and Asp-induced currents was highly voltage-sensitive. The non-competitive and voltage-sensitive block of NMDA and Asp-induced currents by MECA suggest that MECA (and PEMP) block the NMDA receptor ion channel.
Substance P (SP) is found in high concentration in the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS), and is a neurotransmitter candidate in primary baroreceptor afferents to the NTS. Release of SP in the medial NTS of halothane-anesthetized rabbits was measured by in vivo microdialysis. Bilateral electrical stimulation of the aortic depressor nerves (ADN) elicited a significant elevation in SP collected during the period following stimulation, while sham stimulation had no effect. Perfusion through the dialysis probe with a high-potassium (150 mM) solution caused a large increase in the level of SP collected, verifying the neural origin of this release. Possible explanations for the delay in increased release of SP include interaction with carotid afferents, diffusion time, or excitation of SP-containing inputs to the NTS originating elsewhere in the brain. This study demonstrates that SP release in the NTS is elevated by activation of baroreceptor afferents, supporting the hypothesis that SP plays a role in the central integration of cardiovascular control. Whether this release is from primary afferent terminals, or from another source, remains to be seen.
A dark-induced hyperlocomotion paradigm was developed to investigate the role of endogenous cholecystokinin in mediating exploratory locomotor activity in the mesolimbic pathway, where cholecystokinin coexists with dopamine. Microinjection of the cholecystokinin receptor antagonist, proglumide, 10-20 micrograms, into the medial posterior nucleus accumbens, significantly inhibited dark-induced hyperlocomotion, while having no effect on locomotion in the light. These data suggest that endogenous cholecystokinin contributes to behaviorally relevant functions of the activated mesolimbic pathway.
Colchicine, a neurotoxin that preferentially destroys dentate gyrus granule cells and mossy fibers, was injected into the hippocampus of adult rats. Three weeks later, the rats were tested for colchicine-induced hypermotility after which they received fetal hippocampal explants. Locomotor activity was retested three weeks later, after which the rats were trained over a period of four weeks on a food-reinforced, spatial, working memory task in an 8-arm radial maze. Fetal hippocampal explants were found to attenuate significantly the colchicine-induced hypermotility and spatial learning deficits. Histological observations showed the presence of surviving hippocampal explants in both the lesioned and the control rat brains, suggesting that the presence of viable implants facilitates the recovery of behavioral function in rats with spatial memory deficits.
The relation between the spontaneous firing of Type I striatal neurons and recovery of behavioral function after near-total dopamine depletions of the rat striatum was investigated. The results demonstrate that the activity of Type I neurons remains elevated in recovered animals, which contrasts with our previous finding that the firing rates of Type II striatal neurons return to normal levels in association with behavioral recovery.
Thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH), which has been shown to improve neurologic recovery following cervical contusive spinal injury in cats, has also recently been reported to prevent the neuronal damage produced by the intrathecal (i.t.) administration of the substance P antagonist, spantide. Spantide and other substance P antagonists share with dynorphin A (DYN A)-related peptides the ability to produce an acute hindlimb paralysis after i.t. administration in the rat. By virtue of this effect, DYN A has been implicated in the secondary injury mechanisms that follow spinal trauma. Since TRH was shown to reduce the degree of histopathological injury caused by i.t. spantide, we investigated the ability of TRH to prevent or ameliorate the acute hindlimb paralysis produced by the i.t. injection of the substance P antagonists, (D-Arg1,D-Trp7,9,Leu11)-substance P (spantide) and (D-Arg1,D-Pro2,D-Trp7,9,Leu11)-substance P, and DYN A in rats. In this study, TRH failed to improve motor function or survival following i.t. injections of substance P antagonists or DYN A.
The rat forebrain receives projections from both dorsal and median raphe nuclei. It has recently been shown that serotoninergic axons arising from the dorsal raphe nucleus, but not those from the median raphe nucleus, degenerate following systemic administration of p-chloroamphetamine (PCA). The present study was conducted to determine (i) whether the motor nucleus of the trigeminal nerve is innervated by overlapping projections from multiple serotonin cell groups and (ii) whether a particular subset of serotoninergic axon terminals in the trigeminal motor nucleus are sensitive to the neurotoxic effects of PCA. Retrograde transport was used in combination with immunofluorescence to identify the serotonin-positive cells that project to the trigeminal motor nucleus both in control rats and in rats previously treated with PCA. In untreated rats, an average of 95 retrogradely labeled serotonin-positive neurons were found in the dorsal raphe nucleus, 135 in the nucleus raphe obscurus, 132 in the nucleus raphe pallidus and 63 in the ventrolateral medulla. After treatment with PCA, there was a marked decrease (-77%) in the number of retrogradely labeled serotoninergic neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus, whereas the number of labeled neurons was unchanged in the raphe obscurus and raphe pallidus. These results demonstrate that PCA selectively lesions serotonin axon terminals arising from the dorsal raphe nucleus, while sparing projections from the raphe obscurus and raphe pallidus to the trigeminal motor nucleus. This conclusion is in agreement with previous findings that in the forebrain only axons from the dorsal raphe are vulnerable to PCA. The data provide further evidence that serotoninergic axons originating in the dorsal raphe nucleus differ from other serotoninergic axons in their pharmacological properties and that the dorsal raphe may contain a functionally unique subset of serotonin neurons.
The release of [3H]5-HT from guinea-pig frontal cortex slices was elicited by continuous exposure to Krebs solution containing elevated K+ ions (30 mM) and 10 microM fluvoxamine. K+-stimulated release was inhibited by 5-carboxamidotryptamine (pIC25 8.1), 5-HT (7.4), RU 24969 (6.5) and GR 43175 (6.4). 8-OH-DPAT was without effect on K+-evoked release of [3H]5-HT at concentrations up to 1 microM. The inhibitory effects of 5-HT were antagonised by metitepine (pA2 8.2), metergoline (7.0), methysergide (6.5), cyanopindolol (6.5), yohimbine (6.5) and mesulergine (6.2) but not by the 5-HT3 antagonist, ICS 205-930 (1 microM). The results are discussed in the context of the known pharmacology of 5-HT receptor subtypes. It is concluded that the 5-HT receptor modulating 5-HT release in the guinea-pig frontal cortex does not correspond to any of the 5-HT1-subtype recognition sites or to 5-HT2 or 5-HT3 receptors.
The afferent connections of the substantia innominata (SI) in the rat were determined employing the anterograde axonal transport of Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin (PHA-L) and the retrograde transport of wheat germ agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase (WGA-HRP), in combination with histochemical procedures to characterize the neuropil of the SI and identify cholinergic cells. Both neurochemical and connectional data establish that the SI is organized into a dorsal and a ventral division. Each of these divisions is strongly affiliated with a different region of the amygdala, and, together with its amygdalar affiliate, forms part of one of two largely distinct constellations of interconnected forebrain and brainstem cell groups. The dorsal SI receives selective innervation from the lateral part of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the central and basolateral nuclei of the amygdala, the fundus of the striatum, distinctive perifornical and caudolateral zones of the lateral hypothalamus, and caudal brainstem structures including the dorsal raphe nucleus, parabrachial nucleus, and nucleus of the solitary tract. Projections preferentially directed to the ventral SI arise from the medial part of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the rostral two-thirds of the medial nucleus of the amygdala, a large region of the rat amygdala that lies ventral to the central nucleus, the medial preoptic area, anterior hypothalamus, medialmost lateral hypothalamus, and the ventromedial hypothalamus. Both SI divisions appear to receive afferents from the dorsomedial and posterior hypothalamus, supramammillary region, ventral tegmental area, and the peripeduncular area of the midbrain. Projections to the SI whose selectivity was not determined originate from medial prefrontal, insular, perirhinal, and entorhinal cortex and from midline thalamic nuclei. Findings from both PHA-L and WGA-HRP experiments additionally indicate that cell groups preferentially innervating a single SI division maintain numerous projections to one another, thus forming a tightly linked assembly of structures. In the rat, cholinergic neurons that are scattered throughout the SI and in parts of the globus pallidus make up a cell population equivalent to the primate basal nucleus of Meynert (Mesulam et al.: Neuroscience 10:1185-1201, '83). PHA-L-filled axons, labelled from lectin deposits in the dorsal raphe nucleus, peripeduncular area, ventral tegmental area, or caudomedial hypothalamus were occasionally seen to approach individual cholinergic neurons int he SI, and to contact the surface of such cells with axonal varicosities (putative synaptic boutons.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
We have identified and characterized nine antigenic epitopes on the E envelope of Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) by using mAb. Passive administration of most of the anti-JEV mAb protected mice from i.v. challenge with 1.5 x 10(3) plaque-forming units of JEV, JaGAr-01 strain. Some mAb, which possess high neutralization activity in vitro, showed high protection, and JEV-specific N mAb 503 was found the most protective. Even an injection of 2.5 micrograms/mouse of mAb 503 protected all mice from JEV infection. Furthermore, an injection of about 200 micrograms of mAb 503 on day 5 postinfection protected 82% of the mice, even when JEV was detected in more than 85% of the infected mouse brains. Synergism of protection was observed with mixtures of several mAb directed against different epitopes. Although in a murine macrophage cell line, all of the mAb groups showed antibody-dependent enhancement (ADE) of JEV infectivity in vitro, and only two flavivirus cross-reactive mAb groups showed ADE of dengue virus type 2. The ADE of JEV by mAb seems not to be harmful for in vivo protection experiments, except for two mAb groups: mAb 302 and 201 showed little or no protective activity against JEV infection and, rather, caused early death in infected mice.
The Edinger-Westphal nucleus in goldfish was identified by retrograde labeling from the ciliary ganglion. In the same animals a few neurons near this nucleus (perinuclear Edinger-Westphal neurons) were labeled by a different retrograde tracer injected into the cerebellum. No double-labeled cells were found. Similar results were obtained in kelp bass, except that in this species no cerebellar-projecting perinuclear neurons were observed. Cerebellar-projecting Edinger-Westphal neurons have previously been described in some mammals, but not in other vertebrates. Therefore the homology of cerebellar-projecting cells of the Edinger-Westphal region in mammals and teleost fishes is doubtful.
The ability to grow neurons in culture has made possible great strides in the field of neuroscience. Advances in optical microscopy, together with techniques involving the retroviral transformation of neuronal precursors and cell fusion, will pave the way for further developments.
This study examined the effects of intracerebral injections of D-Ala2-Met5-enkephalinamide (DAME) upon hypothalamically elicited hissing behavior in the cat. The bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) was selected for investigation because of its anatomical connections with the medial hypothalamus, its relatively high concentrations of enkephalins and opiate receptors and its demonstrated ability to modulate hypothalamically elicited aggressive reactions in the cat. DAME microinjected into the BNST in 1.0 or 10.0 micrograms/0.5 microliter quantities resulted in significant dose dependent increases in mean latencies for elicitation of the hissing response. Suppression of hissing following the 1.0 microgram dose of DAME was selectively diminished by prior administration of naloxone. These findings suggest that the opiate receptors within the BNST play a role in the regulation of the hissing component of hypothalamically elicited affective defense behavior.
One marvels at a batter's ability to hit a baseball traveling at 150 kilometers per hour or a monkey's skill in snatching a flying insect. Indeed, the ability of many animals to reach out, grasp, and manipulate objects is a feat of biological engineering unmatched by even state-of-the-art robots. But how are the objects of our attention chosen and how are the eyes and hands directed to it? Recent progress in behavioral neurophysiology has clarified some of the brain mechanisms at work.

How is it that we can perceive, learn and be aware of the world? The development of new techniques for studying large-scale brain activity, together with insights from computational modeling and a better understanding of cognitive processes, have opened the door for collaborative research that could lead to major advances in our understanding of ourselves.
The patterns of synaptic connection that underlie brain function depend on the elaborate forms characteristic of neurons. It is therefore a central goal of neuroscience to understand the molecular basis for neuronal shape. Neuronal pathfinding during development is one major determinant of neuronal shape: growing nerve axons and dendrites must navigate, branch, and locate targets in response to extracellular cue molecules within the embryo. The leading tips of growing nerve processes, structures known as growth cones, contain especially high concentrations of the ubiquitous mechanochemical protein actin. Force generation involving this cytoskeletal molecule appears to be essential to the ability of growing nerve fibers to respond structurally to extracellular cues. New results from electronically enhanced light microscopy of living growth cones are helping to show how actin-based forces guide neurite growth and synapse formation.
Fucosidosis is an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disorder characterized by progressive neurological deterioration and mental retardation. The disease results from deficient activity of alpha-L-fucosidase (E.C.3.2.1.51), a lysosomal enzyme that hydrolyzes fucose from fucoglycoconjugates. In an attempt to identify the mutation(s) that result(s) in fucosidosis, we performed Southern blot analysis of the structural gene encoding alpha-L-fucosidase (FUCA 1) in 23 patients affected with fucosidosis. In five patients Southern blot analysis showed obliteration of an EcoRI restriction site in the open reading frame of FUCA 1 encoding mature alpha-L-fucosidase. This abnormality was not observed in 80 controls, and it may be the basic defect responsible for fucosidosis in these patients. Both patients with the severe type I form of fucosidosis and patients with the less severe type II were shown to be homozygous for this presumed mutation. In the remaining 18 patients the EcoRI site obliteration, major-gene deletions, or insertions were not detected. This suggests that at least two different mutations are involved in fucosidosis. The heterogeneity found at the DNA level was not present at the protein level, as all fucosidosis patients investigated had low fucosidase protein (less than 6% of normal) and negligible fucosidase activity in fibroblasts and lymphoblastoid cell lines.
Electrolytic lesions of the arcuate nucleus were made in anesthetized adult castrated male rats. Luteinizing hormone (LH) pulse frequency averaged 2.4 pulses/h in controls but declined to a mean of 0.5 pulses/h in rats with bilateral damage to the arcuate nucleus. Because these lesions also damaged the median eminence, we tested the possibility that this disruption of LH secretion was due to coincidental damage to fibers of passage projecting to median eminence. Axon-sparing chemical lesions of the arcuate nucleus were made by intracranial injections of N-methyl-DL-aspartate (NMA) in anesthetized adult castrated rats. Mean LH pulse frequency was 2.3 and 2.5 pulses/h in control and NMA-injected rats, respectively. NMA injections destroyed arcuate neuronal cell bodies and produced a proliferation of glial cells within the nucleus. There was no apparent difference in the immunocytochemical staining intensity and distribution of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) fibers in median eminence in rats receiving NMA or sham injections. These results suggest that the disruptive effects of electrolytic lesions of the arcuate nucleus on pulsatile LH secretion are a result of coincidental damage to LHRH neuronal projections to the median eminence and that neuronal cell bodies within the arcuate nucleus are not necessary for normal pulsatile LH secretion in male rats.
The author describes 10 patients with tics of the ear. The pathogenesis of this disorder is uncertain, but psychological factors may play an important role. This may be the first report of this disorder in the English literature.

Monoamine metabolites, biopterin, acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity, and somatostatin-like immunoreactivity (SLI) were determined in the lumbar cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of 24 patients with dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT) without myoclonus or extrapyramidal signs, in 8 patients with DAT and myoclonus, and in 14 age-matched healthy control subjects. In patients with DAT with myoclonus as compared with both DAT patients without myoclonus and control subjects, the concentrations of homovanillic acid and biopterin were significantly decreased. 5-Hydroxyindoleacetic acid was significantly lower in patients with myoclonic DAT as compared to patients with nonmyoclonic DAT, but not significantly lower than in control subjects. CSF AChE and SLI were significantly reduced in patients with DAT with or without myoclonus, as compared with control subjects, but AChE and SLI were not significantly different between dementia groups. These results suggest that DAT patients with myoclonus represent a distinct clinical and neurochemical DAT subtype.
We measured alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormonelike immunoreactivity in cerebrospinal fluid of 12 healthy control subjects and nine patients with Parkinson's disease, four of whom had never been treated. Mean cerebrospinal fluid alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormonelike immunoreactivity concentration was two-fold greater in parkinsonian patients (44.1 +/- 9.3 [SD] pg/mL) as compared with control subjects (21.8 +/- 10.0 pg/mL). No significant correlation was found between cerebrospinal fluid alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormonelike immunoreactivity concentrations and patient age, disease severity, or duration of disease. These results suggest a functional relation between dopaminergic and melanotropinergic systems in the human brain.
We have recently reported that a reactive metabolite of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) is formed in rat brain in vitro by type B monoamine oxidase (MAO). In the present study, we further characterize the irreversible binding in vitro using tissues from mice and monkeys, two species more sensitive than rats to MPTP neurotoxicity. We also report the occurrence of irreversible binding of radioactivity after administration of tritiated MPTP in the same species in vivo. Tissue homogenates were incubated at 37 degrees with 1-[methyl-3H]MPTP in in vitro experiments. Animals were injected with labeled MPTP and sacrificed at different times in in vivo experiments. The perchloric acid precipitates of tissue homogenates from either procedure were washed exhaustively with organic solvents and counted for radioactivity. The amount of recovered radioactivity in in vitro experiments was similar using brain homogenates from mice and monkeys, whereas a considerably lower amount was found in mouse liver. MAO-B inhibitors decreased the covalent binding. However, the combined MAO-B/MAO-A inhibitor pargyline had no effect if added after 2 hr of incubation. Sulfhydryl-containing compounds decreased the covalent binding in a concentration-related manner. GSH reduced the rate of the reaction throughout the incubation. The covalent binding slowly increased in time in vivo in mouse brain, not in liver. There was a two-fold variation of covalently bound radioactivity in different brain areas of 3H2-MPTP-treated monkey. This reactive metabolite may play a role in MPTP neurotoxicity.
A statistical comparison is presented of Markov and fractal models of ion channel gating. The analysis is based on single-channel data from two types of ion channels: open times from a 90 pS Ca-activated K channel from GH3 pituitary cells, and closed times from a nonselective channel from rabbit corneal endothelium (Liebovitch et al., 1987a). Maximum likelihood methods were used to fit the data. For both data sets the best Markov model had three exponential components. The best Markov model had a higher likelihood than the fractal model, and the Asymptotic Information Criterion favored the Markov model for each data set. A more detailed analysis, using the Monte Carlo methods described in Horn (1987), showed that the Markov model was not significantly better than the fractal model for the corneal endothelium channels. The inability to discriminate the models definitively in this case was shown to be due in part to the small size of the data set.
The article describes a simple floating hydraulic micromanipulator of original construction which works in positive-positive pressure and provides maximum stability of the microelectrode tip concerning the neuron in the moving brain. This work is achieved by fixing of the micromanipulator on the hinged suspension bracket and by setting of it on the surface of the object with the help of bearing site. Breathing and vascular brain moving don't influence the neuron activity lead.
The regional distribution of forebrain neurons expressing preprocholecystokinin (preproCCK) mRNA was examined using in situ and blot hybridization analysis. We observed a distribution of neurons containing preproCCK mRNA closely parallel to that reported for CCK immunoreactivity, with the exception of the thalamus. In this CCK-immunoreactive cell body-poor structure, we detected relatively abundant RNA: probe hybridization using both our techniques. Control experiments suggested that the hybridizing species in thalamus is authentic preproCCK mRNA. This suggests that there exist forebrain neurons expressing the CCK gene which have gone undetected in immunocytochemical studies.
We have examined the levels of mRNA coding for tubulin in cranial nerve motor nuclei following axotomy using in situ hybridization histochemistry. Following division of their peripheral axons, the neurons in the facial and hypoglossal nuclei show increased levels of tubulin mRNA both ipsilateral and contralateral to the lesion. Tubulin in situ hybridization histochemistry provides a sensitive technique to monitor dynamics of neuronal regrowth or sprouting in the peripheral and possibly the central nervous system.
Brain calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase type II, a multimeric 600-650 kDa enzyme composed of alpha- (50 kDa) and beta/beta' (60 and 58 kDa) subunits, may be formed by alpha- and beta-subunits combining in variable proportions in different types of neurons. This study presents evidence, using cerebella from mutant mice, that the alpha-subunit displays a restricted localization in the rodent cerebellum, being detectable only in Purkinje cells. Immunocytochemical analysis of normal rat cerebellum with an antibody selective for the alpha-subunit confirmed that this subunit was detectable only in Purkinje cells. In contrast, the beta/beta'-subunits appeared to be present in all types of cerebellar mutants examined. These results indicate that different cells of the cerebellum express distinct isozymic forms of the multifunctional calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase type II. It appears that Purkinje cells primarily contain an isoenzyme formed by both alpha- and beta/beta'-subunits, and that non-Purkinje cells contain an isoenzyme formed primarily by beta/beta'-subunits.
We compared the molecular nature of the rat brain opiate receptor with that of the invertebrate leech, Haemopis marmorata, and the protozoan, Tetrahymena, in order to examine the issue of apparent receptor heterogeneity with respect to biochemical structure. A binding study with rat brain membrane verified that [125I]beta-endorphin [( 125I]beta E), a broad specificity ligand, is displaced by the antagonist (-)-naloxone, but not the inactive stereoisomer (+)-naloxone; agonists considered prototypes for mu, delta, and kappa opiate receptors all displayed stereospecific binding displacement. For SDS-PAGE analysis of the opiate receptor [125I]beta-endorphin was covalently affixed to its recognition molecule with the cross-linking reagent DSS. Primary reaction products occur at 110, 58/55, and 29 kDa. Cross-linking products of all 3 molecular weights are effectively reversed by opiate ligands, regardless of their mu, delta, or kappa specificities. Peptide mapping studies in SDS gels, using limited proteolysis, showed that the 110 kDa band can be digested into 58 and 29 kDa fragments and the 58 kDa band into a 29 kDa fragment. Additional smaller molecular weight fragments were generated from the 110, 58/55, and 29 kDa bands which shared their molecular weights. Two possible explanations for the extensive sequence homology between the three major cross-linking products are: (1) the 110 kDa species is the opiate receptor, and the 58 and 29 kDa species are proteolytic fragments; and (2) one of the lower molecular weight species is the opiate receptor, and adjacent receptors are aggregated into the 110 kDa complex through cross-linking.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The article describes the hardware and software required for an inexpensive signal averaging system.
Rabbits received parasagittal knife cuts lateral to the mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus (MD), severing afferents and efferents to and from the prefrontal cortex. These animals were compared to sham animals in a Pavlovian eyeblink and heart rate conditioning experiment in which a tone was the conditioned stimulus (CS) and paraorbital electrical shock was the unconditioned stimulus (US). Knife cuts retarded acquisition of the eyeblink conditioned response (CR), and abolished the late-occurring tachycardiac component of the heart rate CR. These data are compatible with previous experiments which suggest that MD participates in the sympathetic control associated with somatomotor learning.
In freeze-fracture, both large macular gap junctions and long thin gap junctions surrounded by a strand of tight junction were found on neurosecretory cells. Preoptic neurons show large areas of soma-to-soma apposition, but thin section showed no evidence for gap junctions between neuronal somata. Neurosecretory cell neurites formed parallel bundles in neuropil lateral to the nucleus, and gap junctions were found between the neurites. These junctions apparently correspond to macular junctions seen on neurosecretory elements in freeze-fracture. Some large macular gap junctions found in freeze-fracture presumably correspond to junctions seen between glial cells in thin section. However, glial membranes lacked characteristics distinguishing them from neuronal membranes. In one instance, a large apparent glial sheet process formed both macular and long thin gap junctions on different surfaces. The long thin gap junctions that were surrounded by a strand of tight junction were formed with a large neurosecretory cell soma. Extensive pinocytosis was observed at some membranes forming gap junctions.
Some goldfish neurosecretory cells have plasma membrane invaginations filled by processes of surrounding satellite glial cells (SCs) that produce trophospongium-like multicellular neuron-glial aggregates. Some penetrating SC processes approach the neuronal nucleus, reaching to within approximately 40 nm of the outer nuclear membrane. Gap junctions were found in one freeze-fracture replica through an apparent neuronal-glial aggregate, suggesting that neuron-glial gap junctions may be present. The extensive covering and penetration of these neurons by SCs suggests trophic relationships and communication by undetermined modalities between neurons and glia. The common close proximity of invaginated SC processes to the neuronal nucleus may indicate that information is transmitted between SCs and the nucleus. Some SCs abut against the basal lamina of large blood vessels and contain dense vesicles, either secretory or lysosomal.
In recent years there has been a tendency to abandon repeat cerebral angiography in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) if the initial angiogram is normal because prognosis is said to be excellent. Our experience does not support such a conclusion. We report our experiences in 25 patients with SAH, who had a normal initial angiogram. Aneurysms were seen in five of 20 cases when angiography was repeated. On subsequent review of the initial angiograms, the aneurysm was apparent in four of the five cases. When these four initial angiograms were shown to a second observer, unaware of the results of the second study, three of the four aneurysms were correctly identified. We suggest that if, under strong clinical suspicion of SAH, the angiogram is reported as normal the study should be reviewed by a second neuro-radiologist before proceeding to repeat angiography.
We have prospectively reviewed the data on 52 children who presented with status epilepticus. Thirty-four (65%) of the 52 had not had seizures before. Children who were previously abnormal were more likely to present with partial status epilepticus or to have seizures greater than 60 minutes than those who were previously normal. The median age (24 months) of those who presented with status epilepticus was the same as that of children with seizures of shorter duration. The causes were equally distributed among the idiopathic, acute encephalopathic and chronic encephalopathic groups. Three children died and 13 (28%) were left with neurological sequelae. The outcome was favorable for those in the idiopathic category.
Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and plasma levels of verapamil and its two metabolites, norverapamil and D-620, were measured in seven patients with schizophrenia under steady-state conditions. Simultaneous sampling of CSF and plasma just before the dose during week 4 of the trial showed that verapamil, norverapamil, and D-620 partition in the CSF and reflect 7%, 5%, and 12% of the corresponding levels in plasma, respectively. There was a significant decrease in the mean unbound fraction of verapamil in schizophrenic patients as compared with normal subjects (0.058 vs. 0.11; p less than 0.001). Estimates of the mean unbound fraction obtained from CSF/plasma verapamil concentrations and the pH partition hypothesis showed excellent agreement with that measured by equilibrium dialysis (0.055 vs. 0.058) in these patients. Although systemic pool protein concentrations in schizophrenic patients were within normal range, an excellent positive correlation was observed between the ratio of the bound/free verapamil concentration and alpha 1-acid glycoprotein levels (r = 0.86; p less than 0.05). Determination and development of correlations between plasma and CSF may enhance our understanding of the central nervous system effects of verapamil.
The refractory effect of one stimulus upon the response to a closely following stimulus in a different modality is much less than upon the response to a stimulus in the same modality. It is therefore far more efficient to record responses to stimuli in different modalities concurrently than to record each one separately. We evaluated 2 techniques for concurrent recording. Interweaving involves recording the response to one stimulus in the intervals between recording responses to other stimuli. Overlapping occurs when two or more responses are at times being simultaneously recorded. Interweaving and overlapping reduced the time required to record auditory brain-stem responses, short-latency somatosensory evoked potentials and pattern-reversal visual evoked potentials by a factor of 3 over the time required to record each response separately. Overlapping caused no significant change in the evoked potentials. Depending upon the actual timing schedule, interweaving may distort the evoked potentials if later parts of the response to one stimulus override the evoked potential to a following stimulus. Filtering and randomization of stimulus timing may attenuate the effects of these overriding potentials.
The spatial distribution of visual attention was investigated by measuring target detectability (d') and event-related brain potentials (ERPs) to stimuli at varying distances from an attended locus. Vertical bars were flashed rapidly in random order to 1 of 3 locations: one in each of the lateral visual fields and one on the vertical meridian above the fixation point. Subjects maintained eye fixation while directing their attention to 1 of the 3 locations for the duration of each 1.75 min run. Their primary task was to detect infrequent, shorter target bars at the attended location. A secondary task was to respond to shorter target bars at either of the 2 unattended locations if they 'happened to notice them' (without trying to detect them). ERPs and d' scores were obtained to the lateral field stimuli both when they were specifically attended (primary task), as well as when attention was focused upon midline or opposite-field flashes (secondary task). Both d' scores and the amplitudes of the P135 and N190 waves decreased progressively as attention was directed to locations increasingly distant from a given lateral stimulus. These results support 'gradient' models of the spatial distribution of visual attention.
The effects of chronic glucocorticoid treatment on sympathoadrenomedullary function were assessed in conscious unrestrained Wistar-Kyoto rats. Cortisol (25 mg/kg.day), administered for 7 days using a sc reservoir pump, suppressed activity of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenocortical axis, as indicated by markedly decreased levels of corticotropin (ACTH) and corticosterone and decreased adrenal weight. Cortisol also decreased body weight and increased blood pressure to hypertensive levels without affecting plasma sodium or potassium. Basal levels of plasma epinephrine were markedly decreased, indicating suppression of adrenomedullary secretion. Plasma norepinephrine levels also were decreased, but to a smaller extent than epinephrine, and levels of dihydroxyphenylglycol, an intraneuronal metabolite of norepinephrine, were unaffected. Plasma catecholamine responses to nitroprusside-induced hypotension were not altered by cortisol. The results suggest that chronic cortisol treatment suppresses basal hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenocortical and basal adrenomedullary activity in conscious unrestrained rats without impairing reflexive activation of the sympathoadrenomedullary system.
We investigated and characterized the ATP-dependent protease in human erythroleukemia, K562 cells. The succinyl-leucyl-leucyl-valyl-tyrosine-methylcoumarinamide hydrolytic activity in a K562 lysate at pH 9 rose more than 10-fold with the addition of 1 mM ATP. The effect of ATP on the protease activity was dose-dependent and inhibited by the addition of ADP. This activity was not inhibited by EDTA, L-3-carboxy-trans-2,3-epoxypropionyl-leucylamide-(4-guanidin o)butane or leupeptin, but was strongly inhibited by chymostatin and diisopropylfluorophosphate. The protease activity was eluted just after the void volume from a G3000SW HPLC column. The above results suggest that this protease is identical to the high-molecular-mass protease, ingensin, previously reported by us. The ATP-dependent increase in the protease activity was due to prevention of the inactivation of the protease by ATP, and not to activation of the protease itself in the reaction mixture at 37 degrees C. The depressed succinyl-leucyl-leucyl-valyl-tyrosine-methylcoumarinamide hydrolytic activity in the ATP-depleted lysate was restored to the same level by the detergent, SDS. Therefore, we conclude that the inactivation of ingensin occurring on preincubation is not irreversible.
The unidirectional rate of incorporation of plasma palmitate, Jpalm, was measured in 43 brain regions of unanesthetized male Fischer-344 rats at 3, 12, 24 and 34 months of age. Jpalm was calculated from brain radioactivity 4 h after iv injection of [14C]palmitate, and from the integrated plasma specific activity of palmitate to 4 h. Jpalm was not related significantly to age (P greater than 0.05) in gray and white matter regions, nor was the white/gray ratio for Jpalm related to age (approximating 0.53 at all ages). These results demonstrate age invariance of incorporation of plasma palmitate into stable brain structures of the rat and suggest that turnover of brain lipids also is generally age invariant. A mathematical model for regional incorporation of plasma palmitate is given in an Appendix.
Sensitivity, specificity, and diagnostic confidence of the Children's Depression Inventory (CDI) and the dexamethasone suppression test (DST) in assessing childhood depression were determined. Parent and child forms of the CDI and plasma cortisol levels at 8 a.m. and 4 p.m. were used. Three groups of prepubertal children were sampled: (1) 63 depressed inpatients, (2) 14 non-depressed inpatient psychiatric controls, and (3) 21 normal community sample controls. Results suggest that scores greater than or equal to 15 on the CDI obtained from either parent or child provide a good screening instrument (sensitivity = 89%). If the DST is administered to all children with elevated CDI scores, diagnostic confidence is 97.5%. Cautions and recommendations for use of the CDI and DST are made.
Acetylcholinesterase (AChe) molecular forms were studied in hindlimb skeletal muscles from adult male Fischer 344 rats subjected to treadmill exercise for periods ranging between 1 and 30 days. Groups of three animals were exercised for 1 h/day at a treadmill speed of 8.5 m/min, with 1-min sprints at 15 m/min every 10 min. This exercise protocol led to a significant increase in the activity of G4 AChe in fast-twitch (gracilis and tibialis) but not in slow-twitch (soleus) muscles. Other AChe forms and muscle protein content remained unaltered. Such a selective enzymatic change was detected after a single exercise session, became more apparent after three daily sessions, and persisted for at least 30 days of exercise. A larger increment in G4 AChe activity was observed in gracilis muscle end-plate vs. non-end-plate regions. These findings show a specific adaptive reaction of fast-twitch muscles to enhanced motor activity, suggest that individual AChe forms in motor end plates are regulated through separate mechanisms, and support the hypothesis that membrane-bound G4 AChe plays an essential role in neuro-muscular transmission.
In a semi-intact preparation of Aplysia californica Cooper, classical conditioning training leads to changes in the synaptic strength at the sensory-motor neurone synapse. However, these changes are neither necessary nor sufficient to bring about the observed behavioural changes of the gill withdrawal reflex. We therefore tested whether the ability of a gill motor neurone to elicit a gill withdrawal response was altered following classical conditioning training of the reflex. We found that following classical conditioning training, the ability of a gill motor neurone to elicit a gill withdrawal response was significantly potentiated. In addition, in control preparations which did not receive classical conditioning training, the ability of a gill motor neurone to elicit a gill response was decreased. Thus, associative learning of this reflex appears to involve alteration in neuronal activity at loci distal to the sensory-motor neurone synapse.
Inhalation anesthetics, such as diethyl ether, halothane, and enflurane, increase 36Cl- uptake into rat cerebral cortical synaptoneurosomes in a concentration-dependent, picrotoxin-sensitive fashion. At concentrations consistent with those that stimulate 36Cl- uptake, inhalation anesthetics also inhibit the binding of t-[35S]butylbicyclophosphorothionate ([35S]TBPS) to well-washed cortical membranes. Scatchard analysis of [35S]TBPS binding indicates that these agents reduce the apparent affinity of this radioligand and have little effect on the Bmax. The ability of inhalation anesthetics to directly stimulate 36Cl- uptake and inhibit [35S]TBPS binding is a property shared by nonvolatile anesthetics. Nonetheless, there are differences between nonvolatile agents (such as barbiturates and alcohols) and inhalation anesthetics, because the former compounds augment muscimol (a GABAmimetic) stimulated 36Cl- uptake, whereas the latter group (such as ether and enflurane) inhibit this effect. These findings demonstrate that therapeutically relevant concentrations of inhalation anesthetics perturb the benzodiazepine/gamma-aminobutyric acid receptor chloride channel complex, and suggest this oligomeric protein may be a common mediator of some aspects of anesthetic action.
Allografts of embryonic (E14-E15) rat cerebellum in adult brain were compared using the intraparenchymal and intraventricular transplantation techniques. We studied the expression and distribution of phosphorylated neurofilament (PNF) epitopes, nonphosphorylated neurofilament (nPNF) epitopes, synapse-associated antigens, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and myelin basic protein (MBP). Both intraventricular and intraparenchymal grafts developed a clear trilaminar organization. Intraparenchymal grafts were much smaller and showed a large GFAP-positive glial scar and demyelination of host tissue. Nevertheless, myelinated fibers were present more often crossing the host-transplant border in intraparenchymal grafts. PNF and nPNF epitopes were present in both types of grafts. Staining patterns characteristic of normal rat cerebellum were seen. nPNF epitopes were present in Purkinje cell bodies and dendrites and PNF epitopes in basket cell axons surrounding Purkinje neurons. The appearance and distribution of PNF epitopes resembled that seen in normal postnatal cerebellar development and both PNF and nPNF epitopes were present at the same times in early development in both intraventricular and intraparenchymal grafts. In contrast to the situation in trauma and disease, PNF epitopes never appeared in perikarya of transplanted cerebellar neurons. The expression of synapse-associated antigens in grafted tissue was also similar to that seen in normal cerebellum.
Cyclosporin toxicity may produce a wide range of neurological disorders. We report three patients whose neurological problems developed while taking cyclosporin following cardiac transplantation, but resolved rapidly when the drug was discontinued. In two cases, MRI revealed abnormalities which disappeared with clinical recovery. Blood cyclosporin concentrations were not markedly increased, and it is possible that the neurotoxic effects of cyclosporin are mediated by metabolites, through an effect on the blood-brain barrier.
Reflex pathways to tibialis anterior motoneurons from low threshold afferents of the common peroneal nerve were examined in 13 Parkinsonian subjects and 12 age-matched normals. Post-synaptic events occurring in single motoneurons were derived from changes in the firing probability of single voluntarily activated motor units during afferent stimulation. A period of increased firing probability of &quot;monosynaptic&quot; latency (about 33 ms) occurred in all subjects in both groups. A second, later, period of increased firing probability (latency about 64 ms) was seen in 2/12 normals and 8/13 Parkinsonian subjects. Neither of these responses could be produced by cutaneous stimulation. The electrical threshold of the afferents mediating the later effect was 0.82 of the threshold of alpha motoneuron axons which is similar to that of the afferents mediating the shorter latency response. Thus, large non cutaneous afferents contribute to this long latency response in man presumably through polysynaptic pathways. Transmission in these pathways is enhanced in Parkinson's disease.
1. We examined the sensory properties of cells in the anterior bank of the caudal part of the superior temporal sulcus (caudal STS) in anesthetized, paralyzed monkeys to visual, auditory, and somesthetic stimuli. 2. In the anterior bank of the caudal STS, there were three regions distinguishable from each other and also from the middle temporal area (MT) in the floor of the STS and area Tpt in the superior temporal gyrus. The three regions were located approximately in the respective inner, middle, and outer thirds of the anterior bank of the caudal STS. These three regions are referred to, from the inner to the outer, as the medial superior temporal region (MST), the mostly unresponsive region, and the caudal STS polysensory region (cSTP), respectively. 3. The extent of MST and its response properties agreed with previous studies. Cells in MST responded exclusively to visual stimuli, had large visual receptive fields (RFs), and nearly all (91%) showed directional selectivity. 4. In the mostly unresponsive region, three quarters of cells were unresponsive to any stimulus used in this study. A quarter of the cells responded to only visual stimuli and most did not show directional selectivity for moving stimuli. Several directionally selective cells responded to movements of three-dimensional objects, but not of projected stimuli. 5. The response properties of cells in the superficial cortex of the caudal superior temporal gyrus, a part of area Tpt, external to cSTP were different from those of cells in the three regions in the anterior bank of the STS. Cells in Tpt were exclusively auditory, and had much larger auditory RFs (mean = 271 degrees) than those of acoustically-driven cSTP cells (mean = 138 degrees). 6. The cSTP contained unimodal visual, auditory, and somesthetic cells as well as multimodal cells of two or all three modalities. The sensory properties of cSTP cells were as follows. 1) Out of 200 cells recorded, 102 (51%) cells were unimodal (59 visual, 33 auditory, and 10 somesthetic), 36 (18%) cells were bimodal (21 visual+auditory, 7 visual+somesthetic, and 8 auditory+somesthetic), and four (2%) cells were trimodal. Visual and auditory responses were more frequent than somesthetic responses: the ratio of the population of cells driven by visual: auditory: somesthetic stimuli was 3:2:1. 2) Visual RFs were large (mean diameter, 59 degrees), but two-thirds were limited to the contralateral visual hemifield. About half the cells showed directional selectivity for moving visual stimuli. None showed selectivity for particular visual shapes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The beat frequency of the myogenic heart of the tobacco hawkmoth, Manduca sexta, markedly increases at adult emergence in response to 2 blood-borne peptide neurohormones, known as the cardioacceleratory peptides (CAP1 and CAP2). Three independent lines of evidence are presented supporting the hypothesis that the CAPs exert their cardiostimulatory effects on the insect myocardium through a change in the intracellular levels of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (InsP3). I show that (1) InsP3 levels increase in response to CAP2 in a timely fashion, (2) exogenous application of InsP3 mimics the effects of CAP2 application, and (3) a blocker of InsP3 metabolism inhibits the effect of CAP2. These results provide strong support for the hypothesis that InsP3 is likely to be the second messenger in the regulation of heart beat activity by CAP2. Besides establishing the nature of the signaling system between CAP2 and the heart, these data also identify a novel role for InsP3, namely, the control of contraction frequency in a myogenic muscle. Given the widespread distribution of cellular systems employing InsP3 as a second messenger, it is suggested that InsP3 may also be involved in the long-term regulation of rhythmic activity in other spontaneously contractile muscles and endogenously active cells.
Type I and Type II extracellular action potential waveforms were recorded from the rat striatum and studied with respect to their dependence on recording conditions, response to paired impulse stimulation of the corticostriatal pathway, and iontophoretic application of dopamine (DA). Results showed that the distinguishing characteristics of Type I and Type II waveforms are relatively independent of the degree of filtering, distance of the electrode tip from the target neuron, type of recording electrode, and firing rate of the neuron. Very low impedance electrodes, however, were found to mask the difference in spike shape. Electrical stimulation of cortical afferents results in excitation of both action potential waveforms, though the Type II class exhibits a significantly shorter latency than the Type I class. Paired impulse analyses revealed that both waveforms exhibit variation in the probability of discharge (facilitation or inhibition) to the second impulse of each impulse pair that are a function of the interimpulse interval. Most importantly, however, the probabilities of discharge of Type I and Type II neurons to the second impulse are inversely related, i.e., when one cell type exhibits facilitation, the other displays inhibition. These data demonstrate that Type I and Type II waveforms represent the activity of functionally different subpopulations of striatal neurons. Moreover, Type II neurons are found much more often than Type I cells, suggesting that the 2 cell classes may be represented with different frequencies within striatum. Finally, Type II neurons display at least a 5 times greater sensitivity to iontophoretically applied DA than Type I cells, suggesting that the 2 cell populations also are affected differentially by dopaminergic input from the substantia nigra.
EEG and single-unit techniques have been used to study the EEG correlates of cellular firing in the neocortex, n. reticularis (RT) and &quot;specific&quot; thalamic nuclei, and the cholinergic forebrain area (nucleus basalis, NB). Neuronal firing was related to the ongoing behavior of the rat. In addition, using a 16-channel neocortical recording/mapping system, we studied the effects of ibotenic acid lesion of NB, RT, and other thalamic nuclei on the patterns and spatial distribution of neocortical electrical activity. The majority of neurons in neocortex, NB, and RT increased their firing rates during walking, as compared to during immobility, with concurrent decrease of delta power in the neocortical EEG. During immobility, high-voltage spindles (HVS; greater than 1 mV) were occasionally recorded from the neocortex. Depth profiles of HVS and slow delta waves were different in the neocortex. Neocortical cells decreased their discharge frequency during the positive portion of delta waves recorded in layers V and VI. All cells in the neocortex and specific thalamic nuclei fired rhythmically and phase-locked to the spike component of HVS. RT neurons showed an opposite phase relationship and fired mainly during the wave component of HVS. Half of the NB neurons also showed phasic modulation with HVS. Circumscribed lesion of RT and extensive damage of other thalamic regions, including the intralaminar nuclei, suppressed HVS but had no effect on the neocortical EEG correlates of behavior. In sharp contrast, damage to the NB resulted in a dramatic increase of slow delta waves on the side of the lesion, mimicking the effect of scopolamine administration. We suggest that the NB plays a key role in neocortical arousal by directly activating the neocortex and by suppressing the rhythm generation in the RT-thalamocortical circuitry. We further suggest that the NB system may serve as a structural basis for the concept of the generalized ascending activation of Moruzzi and Magoun (1949).
The neuronal manifestations and mechanisms of sedative-anticonvulsant (benzodiazepine) drug withdrawal have been investigated in the CA1 region of hippocampal slices prepared from rats administered clonazepam for 1 month. Slices from clonazepam-treated rats exhibited epileptiform activity evidenced by multiple extracellular population spikes after orthodromic stimulation. These slices also demonstrated abnormally steep and variable stimulus intensity-population spike curves. Intracellular recordings showed spontaneous bursts and slow paroxysmal depolarizations. To investigate the neuronal activity before and immediately after drug withdrawal, slices from drug-naive and drug-exposed rats were maintained in solution containing the approximate concentration of clonazepam (20 nM) measured in the cerebrospinal fluid of clonazepam-treated rats. Compared to CA1 neurons in hippocampal slices from drug-naive animals, neurons from clonazepam-administered animals showed an increased tendency to fire in a bursting (i.e., epileptiform) pattern when the cell was depolarized by current injection, or by orthodromic or antidromic stimulation. Upon withdrawal of clonazepam from the perfusate, the frequency of spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic potentials and spiking activity increased in cells from clonazepam-treated animals and was associated with a shortening of the long-lasting postspike train after hyperpolarization. However, no change in the dendritic gamma-aminobutyric acid response was noted. This study indicates that abnormal epileptiform activity can be detected and studied in brain slices from animals chronically treated with clonazepam.
The effects of methylenedioxymethamphetamine (0.63-10.0 mg/kg) and N-ethyl-methylenedioxyamphetamine (1.0-10.0 mg/kg) on locomotor and investigatory responses of rats were measured in the Behavioral Pattern Monitor system, a system designed to measure both the quantity and quality of behavioral activity. Horizontal locomotion was increased considerably by these compounds in a dose-related manner. This hyperactivity was accompanied by an initial decrease in investigatory holepokes and rearings followed by a subsequent increase at the highest doses tested. Rats injected with these phenylethylamine derivatives also exhibited thigmotaxis and a tendency to avoid the center of the experimental chamber, a behavioral profile similar to hallucinogen-like drugs. Consequently, a disruption of the spatial patterns of locomotion was also observed. Analyses of these patterns revealed an increasing tendency toward more stereotyped, predictable locomotor paths with increasing dose. Rats circled around the perimeter of the chamber with individual animals demonstrating a predominant though not completely consistent direction of rotation. The methylenedioxymethamphetamine-induced increase in locomotion remained significantly elevated up to 4 hr after injection at a 10 mg/kg dose, whereas other aspects of motor activity returned to base-line levels more rapidly. Thus, methylenedioxymethamphetamine and N-ethyl-methylenedioxyamphetamine seem to possess both psychomotor stimulant properties and elements of a hallucinogen-like behavioral profile.
Opioid, sigma, and phencyclidine (PCP) receptors were characterized in the mouse neuroblastoma--Chinese hamster brain hybrid cell line NCB-20. Quantitative receptor assays under equilibrium binding conditions with highly specific radioligands demonstrated the presence of delta, but not mu or kappa, opioid receptors on NCB-20 cell membranes. NCB-20 cells were shown to possess two distinct sites specific for sigma opioids and PCP derivatives. One site was labeled by (+)-[3H]N-allylnormetazocine [(+)-[3H]SKF-10,047] (Kd = 69 nM; Bmax = 4100 fmol/mg of protein). The rank order of potency of drugs at this site was (+)-3-(3-hydroxy-phenyl)-N-(1-propyl)piperidine [(+)-3-PPP] greater than haloperidol greater than (+)-SKF-10,047 greater than (+/-)-ethylketocyclazocine greater than (+/-)-bremazocine greater than N-[1-(2-thienyl) cyclohexyl]piperidine (TCP) greater than dexoxadrol. This site is similar in its ligand selectivity to the haloperidol-sensitive sigma receptor of rat brain. The other site was labeled by the potent phencyclidine derivative [3H]TCP (Kd = 335 nM; Bmax = 9300 fmol/mg of protein). This density is equivalent to approximately 60,000 sites/cell. The rank order of potency of drugs at this site was TCP greater than (+)-3-PPP greater than PCP greater than dexoxadrol greater than haloperidol greater than cyclazocine greater than levoxadrol greater than (+)-SKF-10,047; mu and delta ligands were inactive. This site is similar to the rat brain PCP receptor. The NCB-20 cell line is the only cultured cell line that has been demonstrated to have PCP receptors.
Two different monoclonal antibodies to the Thy-1 antigen, T11D7 and 2G12, were used to purify and characterize retinal ganglion cells from postnatal rat retina. Although Thy-1 has been reported to be a specific marker for ganglion cells in retina, retinal cell suspensions contained several other types of Thy-1-positive cells as well. Nevertheless, a simple two-step &quot;panning&quot; procedure allowed isolation of ganglion cells to nearly 100% purity. We found that postnatal ganglion cells differed in antigenic, morphological, and intrinsic electrophysiological characteristics, and that these properties were correlated with one another. Minor variations of this panning protocol should allow rapid, high yield purification to homogeneity of many other neuronal and glial cell types.
In previously frozen and extensively washed brain membranes [3H]glutamate binds to a single population of sites characteristic of the NMDA-sensitive glutamate receptor subtype. This binding cannot be displaced by glycine and D-serine, but actually is enhanced by these amino acids in a dose-dependent manner. Glycine and D-serine increase the affinity of glutamate binding without changing the density of binding sites. These results delineate glycine as an allosteric modulator of the recognition site for the NMDA-sensitive glutamate receptor.
The location of neural cell adhesion molecule in mouse skeletal muscle has been investigated using two immuno-electron microscopical techniques. In the first method, 6-micron frozen sections of a normal and a hemi-denervated gluteus muscle were stained by an indirect immunoperoxidase method using a rabbit-derived polyclonal antiserum to neural adhesion molecule as the primary antibody. The stain was visualized with the electron-dense chromogen, diaminobenzidine and the sections fixed, osmicated and processed for electron microscopy whilst still on the slide. Ultrathin sections were cut and viewed in the electron microscope, where the reaction product appeared to be localized in the plasma membrane and on the basal lamina of the muscle fibres. The second method, using a 5-nm immunogold-labelled secondary antibody, confirmed and extended these initial observations. In these experiments, the primary antibody to neural cell adhesion molecule was applied in vivo to hemi-denervated mouse gluteus muscles. The muscles were dissected out 24 h later, divided into denervated and innervated halves and then into junctional and extrajunctional regions. Together with the junctional and extrajunctional regions of normal, control pieces of muscle which had not been incubated with anti-neural cell adhesion molecule, they were lightly fixed, and incubated with the secondary gold-labelled antibody, before further fixation and processing for electron microscopy. Semi-thin, 0.5-micron sections of each were cut and viewed at 20,000 x magnification. Randomly sampled fibres from the extrajunctional regions of the denervated and innervated halves of the hemi-denervated gluteus and the normal, control gluteus were photographed for quantitative analysis. Five micrographs were randomly selected from each group and in these, the numbers, density and position of gold particles were measured using a digitizing tablet. By far the highest number of gold particles was found in the denervated half of the gluteus muscle, there being much less in the innervated half and practically none in the control. The density of gold particles in the denervated muscles was maximal in the plasma membrane-basal lamina complex, but most were located in the extracellular spaces outside this region, where they usually occurred in clusters apparently in association with collagen fibres. We conclude that neural cell adhesion molecule in denervated skeletal muscle is present not only in the plasma membrane but also in the basal lamina and extracellular space.
Recordings of single unit activity in the posterior midbrain of the cat were carried out in the &quot;fictive spontaneous locomotion&quot; preparation. Neuronal activity was studied in relation to the onset, alternation and termination of cyclic hindlimb neurographic activity in the precollicular-postmammillary transected animal. Histochemical identification of pedunculopontine (nicotinamide adenine dinuceotide phosphate-diaphorase positive) neurons allowed the localization of recording sites in relation to this nucleus. Neurons located in the area of the cuneiform nucleus dorsal to the pedunculopontine nucleus were found to be related preferentially to cyclic (bursting) neurographic activity, while neurons in the area of the pedunculopontine were found to be related preferentially to the onset (&quot;on&quot;) or termination (&quot;off&quot;) of cycling episodes. Different populations of cells in the area appeared to be related to the frequency of alternation (bursting) compared with the duration of the cyclic episodes (on/off). While the area of the cuneiform-pedunculopontine nucleus has been found to be equivalent to the mesencephalic locomotor region, the same area has been found to be related to other rhythmic activities (e.g. respiratory, masticatory, sleep cycle, pressor, vesico-motor, etc.). A hypothesis is proposed to account for the weight of evidence implicating the same region in a host of distinct rhythmic activities. This hypothesis suggest that an oscillatory reverberation between cholinergic (pedunculopontine, laterodorsal tegmental nuclei) and aminergic (locus coeruleus, substantia nigra) centers is responsible for generating the various function-related &quot;frequencies&quot; (bursting) or &quot;states&quot; (on/off) of activity.
This study is aimed at the investigation of the morphological and electrophysiological characteristics of neurons from the nucleus reticularis thalami in rat thalamic slices incubated in vitro. Ten neurons were recorded in the ventrobasal complex, four of which were successfully injected following horseradish peroxidase injection. Two main types of reticular thalamic neurons were morphologically identified: (1) the small fusiform 'f' cells characterized by a very elongated perikaryon, dendritic arborization prevalent in the rostrocaudal and dorsoventral planes, and an axon without any collaterals branching within the nucleus reticularis thalami; and (2) the large fusiform 'F' neurons with dendrites arborizing mainly in the horizontal plane and with axonal branches within the nucleus reticularis thalami. The electrophysiological properties of the neurons were similar in F and f cells. The reticular neurons showed, in resting conditions, a single spike response followed by a postexcitatory hyperpolarizing potential. The hyperpolarization of these neurons transformed the single spike response into a burst discharge similar to that observed in thalamic relay neurons at resting membrane potential. The same phenomenon was observed when bicuculline was administered by perfusion to the slices and, in this case, a recovery to a single spike response was obtained by a depolarizing d.c. current injection. By contrast, the local administration of GABA induced a depolarization with a pronounced decrease in input resistance. The present data demonstrate the presence of at least two neuronal subtypes within the nucleus reticularis thalami, suggesting that only one is responsible for the phenomenon of auto-inhibition by means of intrinsic axon collaterals. Moreover, it is hypothesized that intranuclear GABAergic collaterals could control neuronal excitability of reticular thalamic cells by both shunting the membrane and shifting the burst firing to a single spike firing mode.
The role of the medial forebrain area (vertical limb of the diagonal band, medial septum and medial nucleus accumbens) in the control of oxytocin secretion in lactating rats was investigated. Electrical stimulation of the medial forebrain evoked a reproducible rise in intramammary pressure, equivalent to that caused by i.v. injection of 1 mU oxytocin. No pressor effect accompanied this response. Radioimmunoassay of plasma samples showed that stimulation caused a significant rise in the concentration of circulating oxytocin. The effects of changing the parameters of stimulation to the medial forebrain were compared with those evoked by stimulation of the neural stalk. The optimal frequency for stimulation of the forebrain was found to be four-fold lower (10-20 Hz) than that for stimulation of the neural stalk (50 Hz). During continuous prolonged stimulation of the forebrain (20 Hz; 2 min) only a single transient response was obtained, whereas a protracted response was obtained as a result of prolonged stimulation of the stalk. Recordings were made from antidromically identified neurosecretory cells in the supraoptic nucleus. Electrophysiological responses to electrical stimulation of the medial forebrain were characterized by two main features. (1) Single-pulse stimulation produced only a small excitation (one or two action potentials), while high-frequency trains produced a profound facilitation of this response, with each pulse evoking short-duration 'bursting' behaviour in the supraoptic neurons. (2) During long trains of stimulation this frequency-dependent facilitation declined and could only be renewed after a period of rest.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Antibodies to parvalbumin label intensely a small number of non-overlapping fibre systems in embryonic rat brain. All are in hindbrain--the oculomotor and trochlear motor fibres, the acoustic and vestibular fibres of the VIIIth nerve, and an unidentified group of fibres which ascend under the dorsal surface in caudal medulla. Of these, the vestibular fibres are the first to acquire parvalbumin immunoreactivity, and we have used this property to follow the growth of their axons in the brain. This occurs in two phases. In the first, occurring at embryonic days 12-14, the axons grow in small groups or fascicles under the pial surface to their most distant terminal zones rostrally in the cerebellum and caudally in the descending vestibular nuclei. This growth is directed towards the two sites where germinal neuroepithelium is expanding over the medullary velum in forming the cerebellum and lateral recess of the IVth ventricle. In a second stage, commencing at E15, individual collaterals branch from these fascicles to arborize amongst their presumptive synaptic targets (cells of the vestibular nuclei and vestibulocerebellum) located in the sub-ventricular and ventricular layers. In this phase the axons follow a radial route, at right angles to their original subpial course, possibly by growing along radial glial processes. The target cells then migrate to their final position with the vestibular axons maintaining contact with them. The vestibular fibres are the first axons to enter the cerebellum, but from E15 onwards their fascicles are joined by increasing numbers of non-vestibular fibres following the same course. These other axons, and the movement of cells to form the deep cerebellar nuclei, separate the fascicles of vestibular fibres so that their course into the cerebellum becomes very diffuse. Thus this single set of axons grow, not only in two distinct phases, but also follow distinctly different substrates for growth in each. Furthermore, they then appear to act as pioneer fibres guiding the entry or egress of later-developing axons to or from the cerebellum.
GABA can be released by depolarization even in the absence of external Ca2+. To investigate the underlying mechanism of this phenomenon, GABA release was studied using slices prepared from rat striatum. Slices were preincubated with [3H]GABA in the presence of beta-alanine and superfused with Krebs buffer. Total tritium efflux was measured as an index of GABA release. Electrical stimulation at 2 Hz for 3 min elevated resting tritium efflux approximately two-fold. Decreasing external Ca2+ to 0.1 mM increased basal tritium efflux and reduced electrically evoked overflow, while omitting Ca2+ entirely (and adding 1 mM EGTA) increased both basal efflux and evoked overflow. Tetrodotoxin (5 microM) abolished the evoked release of tritium but did not affect the resting outflow in either normal or Ca2+-deficient conditions. In the presence of normal Ca2+, nipecotic acid (0.1-1 mM), an inhibitor of GABA transport into neurons as well as glia, enhanced both spontaneous efflux and evoked overflow of tritium. Nipecotic acid also increased spontaneous release when external Ca2+ was reduced or removed; however, under these conditions electrically evoked overflow was reduced. These results suggest that the electrically evoked release of [3H]GABA from striatal slices is of neuronal origin, but can occur in part in the absence of external Ca2+. They further suggest that this Ca2+-independent release, which may co-exist with the Ca2+-dependent release, takes place via the same carrier system utilized for high-affinity GABA uptake.
The electrophysiological and pharmacological properties of dopaminergic neurons were systematically examined throughout the anterior-posterior extent of the substantia nigra zona compacta in the rat. Cells were characterized in terms of their (1) firing pattern, (2) firing rate, (3) antidromic response properties, and (4) inhibition in firing rate following dopaminergic agonist administration. These properties were then related to the cell's position within one of four anterior-posterior segments of the nucleus. There were three types of neuronal discharge pattern encountered; irregular, burst and regular. Cells which exhibited different firing patterns exhibited different firing rates and anatomical locations within the substantia nigra zona compacta. All neurons were antidromically activated from the striatum, however, the burst- and regular-firing cells exhibited significantly faster estimated conduction velocities than irregular-firing cells. The irregular-firing cells were most sensitive to dopaminergic autoreceptor agonists whereas the burst-firing cells were most sensitive to an indirect-acting dopaminergic agonist. These experiments provide both electrophysiological and pharmacological evidence to indicate that nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons are composed of distinct subpopulations which are characterized by their firing pattern.
The retinal ganglion cell is classically viewed as the output cell of the retina, sending a single axon via the optic nerve to synapse in visual relay nuclei of the brain. However, some ganglion cells, termed associational ganglion cells, have axons which do not leave the retina and presumably serve intraretinal communication. Using high-affinity and specific monoclonal antibodies to somatostatin-14 and the avidin-biotin-peroxidase immunohistochemical procedure, somatostatin-immunoreactive associational ganglion cells are specifically stained in human retinas obtained at necropsy. These cells are more numerous in the inferior than the superior retina; they have dendrites which ramify in the inner plexiform layer; and they have sparsely branching axons, many of which can be traced over 1 cm. These axons do not enter the optic nerve. They follow remarkably straight courses at the border of the inner plexiform layer and ganglion cell layer and thereby form a gridwork of fibers covering the entire retinal area. These observations verify the existence of associational ganglion cells in the human and establish somatostatin as a neurotransmitter or neuromodulator candidate for these neurons. The morphology of these cells suggests that they are involved in long-distance interactions within the retina.
Harmaline and related alkaloids produce a fine, generalized motor tremor with a frequency of 8-14 Hz in many mammalian species. The tremor is though to be initiated by the synchronous activation of cells in the inferior olive. Repeated administration of the drug at tremorogenic doses results in the rapid development of tolerance in the rat. Since the generation of cerebellar cyclic 3',5'-guanosine monophosphate by harmaline or apomorphine is reduced in harmaline-tolerant rats, it is possible that the site of tolerance is the olivocerebellar system. The present study used extracellular single unit recording techniques to determine whether harmaline tolerance was associated with changes in the firing patterns of Purkinje cells in the cerebellar vermis of the rat. In non-tolerant animals, the majority (8/13) of Purkinje cells recorded in the vermis responded to harmaline with a rhythmic increase in complex spike rate and a prolonged suppression of simple spikes. In harmaline-tolerant animals, only one cell in 14 could be identified that showed this response. In these animals, a variety of responses not encountered in experimentally naive animals were observed. Since the complex spike activity of Purkinje cells is presumed to reflect the activity of climbing fibers originating in the cells of the inferior olive, the results of the studies reported here support the conclusion that a reduction in the synchronous activation of cells at the olivocerebellar level blocks the appearance of tremor in harmaline-tolerant animals.
This paper examines the topography of neuronal degeneration in the central nervous system of the dystonia musculorum (dt) mutant mouse, revealed by selective silver impregnation, specific histochemical staining and electron microscopy. Neuronal lesions have been observed exclusively in the spinal cord, the medulla and the anterior lobe of the vermis. In the spinal cord, axonal degeneration was maximal among large and medium-sized primary sensory fibers, whereas thin caliber primary afferents were unaffected, with the exception of those containing acid phosphatase activity. In regions of laminae VI to VIII that receive numerous degenerative primary afferents, neurons undergoing different phases of degeneration (chromatolysis, lipid accumulation, dark shrunken necrosis) were constantly found. Most of the latter belonged to spinocerebellar neurons, owing to the presence of fiber degeneration in both spinocerebellar tracts and mossy fiber degeneration in the anterior vermal lobe. In the medulla only axonal degeneration was observed and was confined to three fiber systems: the dorsal column pathway, the sensory trigeminal fibers (both from the trigeminal ganglion and from the mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus), and the spinocerebellar fibers entering the cerebellum through the inferior and superior cerebellar peduncles. This study also suggests a simple pathophysiological mechanism for the onset and the progression of the degeneration: dystonic gene action would affect perinatally specific classes of sensory receptors, producing the degeneration of the nerve terminals and, progressively, the cell death of the sensory ganglion cells at their origin. This retrograde death, which results in the massive and early deafferentation of spinocerebellar neurons, would provoke, trans-neuronally, the impairment of these second order sensory neurons and the progressive degeneration of the spinocerebellar system. The close resemblance of the neuropathology of the mutant mouse to Friedreich's ataxia (the commonest form of human degenerative ataxic disorders) allows one to suppose that the dystonic mouse may be an optimal animal model for studying the genetic basis and the pathophysiological mechanisms of this form of human ataxia.
Solid pieces of embryonic hippocampal tissue were implanted in a cavity formed by aspiration of the fimbria-fornix and the overlying cingulate cortex in adult rats. Six to 8 months after the transplantation, chronic recording electrodes were implanted into the graft and the host hippocampi for the recording of electroencephalogram and unit activity in the freely moving animal. Irregularly occurring sharp waves or electroencephalogram spikes and concurrent synchronous discharge of large groups of neurons dominated the electrical activity of the grafts, in contrast to the situation in normal animals. Light microscopy and GABA immunocytochemistry in the grafts revealed that the three major cell types of the hippocampal formation, i.e. pyramidal neurons, dentate granule cells and GABA-immunoreactive interneurons were present in the hippocampal grafts. At the ultrastructural level, however, significant alterations in connectivity were observed. The most striking finding was the absence or sparse occurrence of synapses on the axon initial segments of pyramidal neurons. The axon initial segments are normally densely covered by GABAergic synapses derived from a specialized type of interneuron, the chandelier or axo-axonic cell. On the other hand, numerous GABA-immunoreactive terminals were found in synaptic contact with somata of pyramidal neurons, suggesting that other types of GABAergic interneurons and their efferent connections may have developed in a normal manner. The cell bodies of pyramidal neurons received, in addition, several asymmetric synapses from GABA-negative terminals. These presumably excitatory synapses are not present on the somata of pyramidal cells in the normally developing hippocampus. We hypothesize that the somatic excitatory synapses originate, at least in part, from the axon collaterals of the neighbouring pyramidal cells in the graft. We suggest that the hyperexcitability of the neuronal circuitry within the graft is due to reduced inhibition (lack of axo-axonic synapses) coupled with increased collateral excitation of the pyramidal neurons.

Single unit activity was recorded from 378 neurons, in two preoptic nuclei rich in luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone neurons, using in vitro brain tissue slices which were prepared form either ovariectomized or ovariectomized plus estradiol-treated rats. To test possible transmitter-like actions, agents were injected into the perfusion medium. Luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone excited 46%, inhibited 7%, and evoked biphasic responses in 2% of the 250 units tested. By comparison, two other peptides, thyrotropin-releasing hormone and cholecystokinin-octapeptide sulfated were exclusively excitatory, acting on 55 and 67% of the neurons, respectively. The response to thyrotropin-releasing hormone, cholecystokinin-octapeptide sulfated, and neurotransmitters were prompt, large, and consistent from trial to trial. In contrast, responses to luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone were usually delayed, small, and variable. Responses to the agents tested were not affected by in vivo estradiol treatment. Possible modulatory actions of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone were tested by comparing the responses of single neurons to norepinephrine and serotonin before and after an application of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone. In 39 and 20% of the 119 neurons tested, the norepinephrine responses were potentiated and attenuated, respectively, by luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone. In 46 serotonin-responsive neurons, 28% were potentiated and 22% attenuated. These neuromodulatory actions of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone were specific in affecting only certain responses of certain neurons, and they were not duplicated on the same neurons by thyrotropin-releasing hormone. It appears that luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone may be a neuromodulator in the preoptic area.
The medial prefrontal cortex receives converging projections from the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus, dopaminergic cells from the ventral tegmental area dn noradrenergic cells from the locus coeruleus. Stimulation of the ventral tegmental area inhibits the spontaneous activity of prefrontal cortical neurons and blocks the excitatory response evoked by stimulation of the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus (10 Hz). The aim of the present study was to compare the influence of dopaminergic and noradrenergic afferents on the spontaneous and evoked activity of medial prefrontal cortical neurons. In ketamine-anaesthetized rats, repetitive stimulation (20 Hz, 10 s) of the locus coeruleus produced a long-lasting post-stimulus inhibition (mean duration: 45 s) of the spontaneous activity of 56% of the tested cells. This effect was decreased markedly following selective destruction of the ascending noradrenergic pathways (local 6-hydroxy-dopamine injection) or depletion of cortical catecholamines by alpha-methyl-para-tyrosine pretreatment, suggesting that these inhibitory responses are mediated by noradrenergic neurons. The excitatory response to mediodorsal thalamus nucleus stimulation (10 Hz) could still be evoked during the post-stimulus inhibitory period induced by locus coeruleus stimulation (20 Hz, 10 s) resulting in the enhancement of signal-to-noise ratio. On the other hand, a population of prefrontal cortex neurons (26%) was found to be reproducibly activated by noxious tail pinch. This evoked response was still present during the post-stimulus inhibitory period induced by locus coeruleus stimulation but was completely suppressed during stimulation of the ventral tegmental area (10 Hz). In conclusion, these results indicate that the dopaminergic and noradrenergic systems exert a completely distinct control of information transfer in the medial prefrontal cortex.
Ornithine decarboxylase is the first enzyme in the biosynthesis of the polyamines, which control macromolecule synthesis during cellular development. Polyamines appear to play a critical role in the development of the rat cerebellar cortex, since postnatal treatment with the specific irreversible ornithine decarboxylase inhibitor, alpha-difluoromethylornithine, arrests cell division and migration in this region. To determine whether the distribution of ornithine decarboxylase within the developing cerebellar cortex correlates with specific maturational events, [3H]alpha-difluoromethylornithine, a specific marker for ornithine decarboxylase activity, was localized autoradiographically in 3-13-day-old rats. The density of autoradiographic grains within the cerebellar cortex as a whole paralleled the postnatal rise and fall of biochemically determined ornithine decarboxylase activity. Superimposed on this pattern was a selective laminar distribution of label which indicated specific association of ornithine decarboxylase with cell replication, as shown by preferential labeling of the superficial (mitotic) zone of the external granule cell layer. In addition, ornithine decarboxylase activity was temporally associated with regions in which post-mitotic cells were undergoing migration, axonogenesis and dendritic arborization, as shown by the patterns obtained in deeper layers. In contrast, there was no evidence for an association between ornithine decarboxylase activity and synaptogenesis, gliogenesis or myelination. These results, in combination with previous biochemical and morphological data, support the view that the ornithine decarboxylase/polyamine system plays an important role in both mitotic and post-mitotic events within the nervous system.
[3H]Imipramine and [3H]paroxetine were used to label sites associated with serotonin uptake mechanisms in post-mortem brain tissue from control subjects. The anatomical localization of these sites was examined by autoradiography and densities measured by microdensitometry. We found [3H]imipramine binding to increase with age in the cortex and amygdala, but to be independent of gender and post-mortem delay. Preliminary results indicate that the binding of both [3H]imipramine and [3H]paroxetine is diminished in the brain of patients treated with imipramine. The distribution of [3H]imipramine and [3H]paroxetine high-affinity binding sites was very similar, and correlated well with the distribution of serotonergic presynaptic markers in the brain. The highest densities of binding sites were found in the raph nuclei and the midline thalamic nuclei. Other structures presenting high levels of binding were the substantia nigra, nucleus interpeduncularis, locus coeruleus, nucleus nervi hypoglossi, nucleus nervi facialis, mammillary bodies and other parts of the hypothalamus. In contrast, regions such as the neocortex, hippocampus, amygdala and cerebellum showed low densities of [3H]imipramine and [3H]paroxetine binding sites. This distribution seems to indicate that the ascending serotonergic pathways are the main site of action of antidepressants.
We have measured on-line the exocytotic secretion of ATP from adrenal medullary chromaffin cells induced by Ba2+ using a luciferin/luciferase assay. We have found that Ba2+-induced ATP release requires the entry of Ba2+ through either voltage- or receptor-gated Ca2+ channels. This conclusion is based on the observations that short preincubations with low concentrations of either nicotine or K+ greatly enhance Ba2+-induced ATP release and that this augmentation can be blocked with the nicotinic receptor antagonist, hexamethonium, and the Ca2+ antagonist, nifedipine, respectively. Moreover, both nicotine and K+ stimulate 133Ba2+ uptake, which in the case of K+ is inhibited by nifedipine. These results support the hypothesis that the cellular events leading to Ba2+-induced secretion coincide at least in part with the events leading to Ca2+-dependent exocytosis.
The distribution of a dopamine- and cyclic adenosine-3':5'-monophosphate (cAMP)-regulated phosphoprotein with an apparent molecular weight of 32,000 (DARPP-32) was investigated in the rat diencephalon and monkey hypothalamus by use of immunohistochemical techniques. In addition to single cells located peri- and paraventricularly in hypothalamus and thalamus in the rat, and ependymal cells, DARPP-32-immunoreactivity was found to be present in a subpopulation of ependymal tanycytes. These DARPP-32-positive tanycytes lined the walls and floor of the third ventricle, sending processes towards the arcuate nucleus, surrounding blood vessels in this nucleus, and continuing towards the median eminence, where they abutted on portal vessels. A second group of DARPP-32-positive tanycytes with cell bodies within the median eminence was also observed. Simultaneous labeling with antiserum against tyrosine hydroxylase, a presumptive marker for tuberoinfundibular dopamine neurons, revealed a close relation to DARPP-32-containing tanycytes in several anatomical locations. Thus, in the periventricular area DARPP-32-positive tanycytes ensheathed tyrosine hydroxylase-positive processes. These processes, presumably representing dopaminergic dendrites, virtually penetrated between the ependymal cells to the ventricular space and thus perhaps established direct contact with the cerebrospinal fluid. Tyrosine hydroxylase-terminals were also observed in close association with DARPP-32-immunoreactive tanycytes in the rat median eminence. However, in view of the density of DARPP-32-positive processes in the external layer of the median eminence, the DARPP-32 processes may be related to a number of other types of nerve endings, including luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone, as shown in this study. The close association of DARPP-32-immunoreactive processes with tyrosine hydroxylase- and luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone-immunoreactive nerve endings in the rat was directly visualized at the ultrastructural level using triple-labeling immunocytochemistry. Both the ultrastructural analysis and immunohistochemistry at the light microscopic level, comparing the distribution of DARPP-32 and glial fibrillary acidic protein, indicated the presence of two types of glial processes in the median eminence. The electron microscopic studies also suggested the presence of both DARPP-32-positive and DARPP-32-negative glial processes in the external layer of the median eminence.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
In vivo and in vitro perfusion techniques have been used to study the release of neurokinin A-like immunoreactivity from the rat substantia nigra. Potassium depolarization and electrical field stimulation evoked calcium-dependent release from nigral slices. Potassium depolarization was also effective in vivo. Tetrodotoxin (1 microM) completely blocked electrically stimulated release but only diminished release in response to depolarizing potassium. Neurokinin A-like immunoreactivity release showed frequency dependence and a clear facilitation phenomenon between 5 and 25 Hz. High-performance liquid chromatography analysis of the immunoreactivity released in vitro revealed the presence of neurokinin A, neuropeptide K and neurokinin B, along with their sulphoxide forms. A marked depletion of neuropeptide K and neurokinin B content was observed when the tachykinin content of the nigral slices was examined before and after stimulation. However, the neurokinin A content of the slices was unchanged or even increased, suggesting an accelerated processing of neurokinin A precursors during the stimulation. The tachykinin peptides were degraded at different rates by substantia nigra homogenates; degradation was fastest for neuropeptide K and slowest for neurokinin A. The addition of a mixture of peptidases inhibitors (thiorphan, phosphoramidon, bestatin and captopril) substantially reduced the degradation of all three tachykinins, but did not completely block degradation. GABA-A receptor antagonists such as bicuculline and, particularly, picrotoxin potentiated the stimulated neurokinin A-like immunoreactivity release in vitro, but the GABA-agonist muscimol had no effect. Picrotoxin was even more potent in vivo. The results presented in this study demonstrate that neurokinin A, neuropeptide K and neurokinin B can be released by depolarizing stimuli from rat substantia nigra. Furthermore, the features exhibited by this release suggest that these peptides may have a neurotransmitter/neuromodulator role in the rat substantia nigra.
Our previous studies on the survival-promoting influence of elevated concentrations of extracellular K+ ([K+]e) on cultured cerebellar granule cells led to the proposal that depolarization in vitro mimics the effect of the earliest afferent inputs received by the granule cells in vivo. This, in turn, might be mediated through the stimulation of excitatory amino acid receptors, in particular the N-methyl-D-aspartate-preferring subtype gating ion channels which are also permeable to Ca2+. Here we report that N-methyl-D-aspartate indeed has a dramatic effect on the survival in culture of cells derived from dissociated cerebella of 7-8-day-old rats and cultured in media containing 'low' [K+]e (5-15 mM). In addition to the visual inspection of the cultures, the effect of N-methyl-D-aspartate was quantitatively evaluated, using estimates related to the number of viable cells (determination of DNA and of reduction rate of a tetrazolium salt). Furthermore, proteins which are relatively enriched in either nerve cells (neuronal cell adhesion molecule, D3-protein and synaptin) or in glia (glutamine synthetase) were also measured. The findings showed that the rescue of cells by N-methyl-D-aspartate involved primarily nerve cells and that the survival requirement for N-methyl-D-aspartate, as for high K+, developed between 2 and 4 days in vitro. The effect depended on both the concentration of N-methyl-D-aspartate and the degree of depolarization of the cells: both the potency and the efficacy of N-methyl-D-aspartate were increased as [K+]e was raised from 5 to 15 mM, at which range K+ on its own has little if any influence on granule cell survival. These characteristics are consistent with the voltage-dependence of ion conductance through the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-linked channel. The most pronounced effect of N-methyl-D-aspartate was obtained in the presence of 15 mM K+, when cell survival approached that obtained in 'control' cultures (grown in 25 mM K+-containing media without N-methyl-D-aspartate), and the potency of N-methyl-D-aspartate (half-maximal effective concentration, EC50, about 20 microM) was similar to its known affinity in binding to cerebral membranes. The effect of N-methyl-D-aspartate was blocked by the specific receptor antagonist 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate, which also reduced the limited survival of cells in cultures grown in 'low' K+ in the absence of N-methyl-D-aspartate.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Intraneuronal post-translational cleavage of pro-opiomelanocortin yields a variety of peptides including beta-endorphin, melanocyte stimulating hormone and corticotrophin-like intermediate polypeptide, some of which are subsequently N-acetylated. Such peptides may be co-released from neuronal terminals, and so these experiments explored the effects of co-administration of some of them on sexual behaviour in the male rat, which is known to be sensitive to hypothalamic infusions of beta-endorphin. Peptides were infused into the pre-optic-anterior hypothalamic area bilaterally in doses up to 320 pmol, and males allowed access to a sexually receptive female and/or a sweet solution (0.1% Acesulfame-K) for 15 min, so that both sexual and ingestive behaviour could be studied. beta-Endorphin(1-31) by itself inhibited sexual interaction, confirming our previous data. Acesulfame-K ingestion was inhibited in control-infused rats in the presence of a female, but this inhibition was released when sexual behaviour was itself diminished by beta-endorphin(1-31). Both the acetylated and non-acetylated forms of melanocyte stimulating hormone (alpha-melanocyte stimulating hormone and des-acetyl melanocyte stimulating hormone) stimulate sexual behaviour; latencies both to ejaculation and to resumption of copulatory behaviour after an ejaculation (post-ejaculatory interval) were reduced. However, infusion of either corticotrophin-like intermediate peptide or N-acetylated beta-endorphin (1-31) had no effect on either sexual or ingestive behaviour. Infusion of either acetylated melanocyte stimulating hormone or des-acetyl melanocyte stimulating hormone mixed with beta-endorphin(1-31) prevented the inhibitory effect of the latter on sexual behaviour. Dose-response studies showed that the behavioural effect of such mixtures depended upon the molar ratios of the two peptides, rather than their absolute concentrations. The higher the ratio in favour of alpha-melanocyte stimulating hormone or des-acetyl melanocyte stimulating hormone, the greater the display of sexual behaviour. Infusing either corticotrophin-like intermediate polypeptides or N-acetyl beta-endorphin(1-31) with beta-endorphin(1-31) did not prevent the inhibition of sexual activity expected with beta-endorphin(1-31) alone. These results are discussed in terms of the functional consequences of co-release of proopiomelanocortin peptides from hypothalamic nerve terminals.
In vitro quantitative receptor autoradiography was performed on frozen sections of rat and human brain to visualize delta opiate receptors using the specific ligand [3H][D-Pen2, D-Pen5]enkephalin. For comparison, rat brain sections were also labelled with [3H]D-Ala2, D-Leu5-enkephalin. Compounds which block mu and kappa binding were included to make the [3H]D-Ala2, D-Leu5-enkephalin binding more specific. The two ligands had similar, but not identical, distributions in rat forebrain sections. Sites labelled with [3H][D-Pen2,D-Pen5]enkephalin were distributed heterogeneously within the layers of the frontal and parietal cerebral cortex, with high densities in the superficial and deep cortical layers. The claustrum and striatum had the most delta sites, whereas the globus pallidus had no delta binding. The distribution of [3H]D-Ala2,D-Leu5-enkephalin binding sites was similar to that of [3H][D-Pen2,D-Pen5]enkephalin, except that there was less heterogeneity in the frontal cortex. In the human brain regions studied, the highest delta binding was in caudate, putamen, temporal cortex and amygdala. There was less heterogeneity in the binding of [D-Pen2,D-Pen5]enkephalin in the human cortex than in the rat. No delta binding was seen in the medial and lateral segments of the globus pallidus. In both species, a discrepancy between the high enkephalin content of the globus pallidus and the absence of delta binding was apparent.
The distribution, structural organization and state of phosphorylation of neurofilaments have been examined in chromaffin cells from adult bovine adrenal medulla cultured under various conditions using a series of monoclonal antibodies directed against phosphorylated and nonphosphorylated epitopes of the 200,000 mol. wt subunit. Nonphosphorylated neurofilament epitopes were detected immunocytochemically to varying extents in chromaffin cells maintained under standard culture conditions for up to 3 weeks. Staining was usually limited to a perinuclear region from which fine filaments sometimes appeared to radiate around the nucleus. In marked contrast, none of the antibodies directed against phosphorylated neurofilament epitopes stained these structures. When cells were cultured under conditions favouring neurite outgrowth, in conditioned medium derived from intermediate lobe cultures, there was a more extensive expression of the nonphosphorylated neurofilament epitopes. In addition, phosphorylation of neurofilaments was induced. The phosphorylated neurofilament epitopes were restricted to the neurite, whereas the nonphosphorylated neurofilament epitopes were localized in both neurite extensions and perikarya. These results demonstrate that conditioned medium from intermediate lobe cells of the hypophysis not only provokes neurite outgrowth from chromaffin cells, but also supports neuronal maturation as demonstrated by the phosphorylation of neurofilaments in neurites.
Capsaicin induced a contraction of isolated strips from the guinea-pig urinary bladder which was more evident in the dome than in the neck and inhibited contractions induced by field stimulation, particularly in the neck. Both responses exhibited prompt desensitization and were tetrodotoxin-resistant, suggesting a specific action on transmitter release from sensory nerve terminals. Indeed, the contractile response in the dome was prevented by a substance P antagonist while the inhibitory response in the neck was prevented by immunoblockade with anticalcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) serum. Substance P produced a contraction of the guinea-pig bladder, being about 5 times more potent in the dome than in the neck, while CGRP inhibited the evoked contractions, being about 8 times more potent in the neck than in the dome. Further, the maximal effect of CGRP in the neck was almost double that in the dome. Substance P- and CGRP-like immunoreactivity were detected in both the dome and the neck with no regional differences for each peptide. CGRP-like immunoreactivity was 6.3 and 7.9 times higher than substance P-like immunoreactivity in the dome and the neck, respectively. Exposure to capsaicin evoked release of both substance P- and CGRP-like immunoreactivity from the dome and the neck. Peak CGRP-like immunoreactivity released by capsaicin was 12.3 and 8 times greater than substance P-like immunoreactivity in the dome and the neck, respectively. For each peptide, no difference was found in peak release in the dome vs neck. Total substance P-like immunoreactivity released from the neck was 25% lower than that released from the dome. The ability of CGRP to stimulate accumulation of 3',5' cyclic adenosine monophosphate in membranes prepared from the bladder muscle was greater in preparations from the neck than from the dome. These findings indicate that postjunctional mechanisms (type and number of receptors for sensory neuropeptides, coupling with second messengers) are a major determinant of the type of motor responses consequent of the release of sensory neuropeptides from capsaicin-sensitive nerves.
The distribution, origin and projections of nerve fibers containing vasoactive intestinal peptide, substance P, neuropeptide Y, galanin, gastrin-releasing peptide, calcitonin gene-related peptide, somatostatin or enkephalin were studied in the midcolon of the rat by immunocytochemistry and immunochemistry. Most of these nerve fibers had an intramural origin as was established by extrinsic denervation (serving of mesenterial nerves). Extrinsic denervation eliminated neuropeptide Y-containing fibers of presumably sympathetic origin together with sensory nerve fibers containing both substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide. Co-existence of two peptides in the same neuron was studied by double immunostaining. This revealed co-existence of neuropeptide Y and vasoactive intestinal peptide in one population of intramural neurons; an additional population of intramural neurons was found to contain vasoactive intestinal peptide but not neuropeptide Y. All somatostatin-containing neurons in the submucous ganglia were found to harbor calcitonin gene-related peptide. A much larger population of submucous neurons containing calcitonin gene-related but not somatostatin was also detected. Some perivascular calcitonin gene-related peptide-containing nerve fibers (of intrinsic origin) harbored vasoactive intestinal peptide while others (of extrinsic origin) harbored substance P. The polarities and projections of the various peptide-containing intramural neurons in the transverse colon were studied by analysing the loss of nerve fibers upon local disruption of enteric nervous pathways (myectomy or intestinal clamping). Myenteric neurons containing vasoactive intestinal peptide, galanin, gastrin-releasing peptide, calcitonin gene-related peptide, somatostatin or vasoactive intestinal peptide/neuropeptide Y gave off 5-10-mm-long descending projections while those containing substance P or enkephalin issued approx. 5-mm-long ascending projections. Submucous neurons containing calcitonin gene-related peptide, somatostatin/calcitonin gene-related peptide or gastrin-releasing peptide issued both ascending (2-6 mm) and descending (2-6 mm) projections, those containing vasoactive intestinal peptide issued ascending (approx. 2 mm) projections, while those containing galanin or vasoactive intestinal peptide/neuropeptide Y lacked demonstrable oro-anal projections. Enkephalin-containing fibers could not be detected in the mucosa and the mucosal substance P-containing nerve fibers were too few to enable us to delineate their projections.
Subcortical afferents to transplants of fetal striatal tissue, implanted into the excitotoxically lesioned striatum of adult recipient rats, were studied with retrograde and anterograde axonal tracers and immunohistochemistry. One week after a striatal ibotenic acid lesion, involving most of the head of the caudate-putamen, a suspension of fetal striatal tissue (embryonic day 14-15) was injected into the lesioned area. In one group of rats, the ibotenic acid lesion was preceded (10 days) by large intrastriatal injections of True Blue, with injection sites matching the area to be lesioned. This was done to retrogradely pre-label the host brain afferents to the area of the striatum later to be lesioned and grafted. At 3 or 6 months post-transplantation, small injections (50 nl) of rhodamine-labelled latex beads were made into the striatal grafts. In animals where the injections were confined to the graft, retrogradely labelled host brain neurons were found in the thalamus, the substantia nigra, amygdala and dorsal raphe nucleus. Double-labelling analysis revealed that the vast majority of the rhodamine bead-labelled neurons also contained True Blue, which indicates that the host afferents to the graft, to a large extent, were derived from the neurons which normally project to the area of the caudate-putamen which was lesioned by the ibotenic acid injection. To further substantiate these observations a second group of lesioned and grafted animals received unilateral wheatgerm agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase injections into the ipsilateral host thalamus at 4 months post-transplantation in order to anterogradely label the host thalamostriatal axons. In a third group of animals serotonin immunocytochemistry was performed in order to detect possible afferents from the raphe nuclei. In contrast to the serotonin-containing fibers, which were fairly evenly distributed throughout the graft tissue, the peroxidase-labelled thalamic afferents were most prominent in the peripheral zones of the grafts and they were densely aggregated at the graft-host interface. The combined results provide evidence that the intrastriatal grafts receive afferents from the host substantia nigra, thalamus, amygdala and dorsal raphe nucleus, but with different distributions. The afferents from the substantia nigra, amygdala and raphe nuclei seem to distribute throughout the grafted tissue, although they are most dense in the peripheral parts, whereas the thalamic afferents are largely confined to the peripheral areas of the transplants and to the graft-host interface.
Three different functional regions of the inferior olive receive direct input from the spinal cord. The present study examined spinal termination patterns in two of these functional entities, the rostral and caudal halves of the dorsal accessory olive, with anterograde transport of wheat germ agglutinin conjugated with horseradish peroxidase visualized by tetramethylbenzidine. The injections primarily included the spino-olivary projection from neurons in the lumbosacral dorsal horn. Two types of labeled terminals were found, small end bulbs (84%) and large en passant boutons (16%). The small end bulbs displayed distinct rostrocaudal variations in their termination patterns. In the rostral dorsal accessory olive they synapsed most frequently on dendrites that directly contacted other dendrites, forming dendritic thickets. In the caudal dorsal accessory olive, they synapsed less often in thickets and more often on isolated dendrites. Conversely, the large, en passant boutons synapsed primarily in thickets and failed to display comparable rostrocaudal shifts. All somatic afferents in the rostral dorsal accessory olive examined to date synapse primarily in dendritic thickets, suggesting that the thicket is a major site through which neurons in that region detect peripheral somatic events. Within dendritic thickets, single afferents often contact multiple dendrites and the dendrites, in turn, sometimes give rise to spinous processes. It is proposed that these spinous processes participate in synaptic glomeruli, which others have shown to be the primary targets of cerebellar afferents to the dorsal accessory olive. These results suggest that somatic afferents to the rostral dorsal accessory olive influence a greater number of neurons and are more likely to interact with cerebellar input than are somatic afferents to the caudal region. This possibility is consistent with the more complex types of movement influenced by the rostral compared with the caudal halves of the dorsal accessory olive.
An important feature of ischemic brain damage is the exceptional vulnerability of specific neuronal populations and the relative resistance of others. Silver impregnation was used to delineate the extent and time-course of neuronal degeneration produced by 5 min of complete forebrain ischemia in the Mongolian gerbil. Lesions were confined to four brain regions: (1) hippocampal areas CA1, CA2-CA3a and CA4; (2) the dorsomedial portion of the lateral septal nucleus; (3) the dorsolateral portion of the striatum; and (4) the somatosensory neocortex. The ischemic lesion evolved with time in all four regions, but at different rates. Somatic argyrophilia developed rapidly in the striatum and hippocampal area CA4 (maximal in 24 h or less), at intermediate rates in the somatosensory neocortex, hippocampal areas CA1a and CA2-CA3a and the lateral septal nucleus (maximal in 2 days), and slowly in hippocampal area CA1b (maximal in 3 days). These results emphasize that the extent and rate of neuronal degeneration can vary even within a presumably homogeneous neuronal population, as evidenced by the different results in areas CA1a and CA1b. Similar results were obtained from analysis of brain sections stained with Cresyl Violet, hematoxylin-eosin or hematoxylin-eosin/Luxol Fast Blue. Terminal-like silver granules were observed in the projection fields of degenerated neurons. They also appeared, however, in the perforant path terminal zone of the hippocampal dentate molecular layer 1-2 days after transient ischemia and in stratum oriens and stratum radiatum of area CA1b prior to somatic degeneration. These granular deposits could not be clearly related to the degeneration of neuronal somata. Novel findings of this study include the degeneration of some dentate basket cells and lateral septal neurons and the appearance of terminal-like argyrophilia in the hippocampal formation without any obvious relation to somatic degeneration. Some of our results lend support to the hypothesis that ischemic neuronal cell death constitutes an excitotoxic process. Other results, however, suggest that the selective vulnerability of neurons to transient ischemia must involve factors beyond excitotoxicity.
Intrathecal (IT) injection of arginine vasopressin (AVP) in rats caused a transient (less than 30 min), dose-related paralysis of the hindlimbs, loss of hindlimb and tail nociceptive responsiveness, and increased mean arterial pressure. Motor dysfunction was produced with comparable potency by lysine vasopressin (LVP) and arginine vasotocin (AVT); oxytocin (OXY) was approximately 1000 times less potent. Paralysis induced by these peptides was selectively blocked following IT pretreatment with 0.5 nmoles of the vasopressin V1 receptor antagonist [1-(beta-mercapto-beta,beta-cyclopentamethylene propionic acid), 2-(O-methyl)tyrosine] Arg8-vasopressin (d(CH2)5[Tyr(Me2)]AVP). Pressor and antinociceptive responses to AVP were also blocked by this compound. However, at higher doses (2-5 nmoles, IT), d(CH2)5[Tyr(Me2)]AVP produced hindlimb paralysis, antinociception, and pressor responses by itself. In contrast to the fiber degeneration, cell loss, and necrosis found in lumbosacral cords of rats persistently paralyzed by other peptides (dynorphin A, somatostatin, and ICI 174864), neuropathological changes were not evident in spinal cords of rats transiently paralyzed by IT AVP. These results indicate that AVP-related peptides affected diverse spinal cord functions through interactions with a V1-like receptor. The similar pattern of cardiovascular and antinociceptive responses to other peptides (dynorphin A, somatostatin, and ICI 174864), which also caused hindlimb paralysis, suggests that the former responses may actually reflect the nonselective consequences of a peptide-induced disruption of spinal cord function, rather than specific shared pharmacological effects.
The immunologically detected neuropeptides methionine enkephalin (ME), substance P (SP), beta-endorphin (beta-End), and alpha-melanocyte stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH) were purified from bovine corneal extracts by gradient, followed by isocratic, reversed phase-high performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC) and characterized, after both chromatographic steps, by radioimmunoassay (RIA). Immunologically detected ME and SP were purified from canine corneal extracts by gradient RP-HPLC and characterized by RIA. An anatomical study of the bovine cornea separated the cornea into an epithelium-enriched and a stroma-enriched portion. After gradient RP-HPLC, RIA demonstrated that all the ME-like immunoreactivity was located in the corneal epithelium, whereas the SP-like immunoreactivity was distributed between the stroma and epithelium in an approximate two-to-one ratio.
The present study localized corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) receptors and studied the action of CRF in the neonatal rat spinal cord preparation. Lumbar CRF receptors were present in highest concentrations in laminae I and II with progressively lower concentrations in lamina IX and intermediate and central zones respectively. CRF directly and indirectly depolarized lumbar motoneurons in a concentration-related manner and the putative receptor antagonist, alpha helical oCRF(9-41), partially blocked the depolarizing response to CRF. The electrophysiological responses to CRF and the distribution of receptors within the spinal cord suggest that CRF may play a physiological role in regulating spinal cord reflex function.
Dissociated primary cultures of glial cells released a remarkable amount of purines, at rest and during field electrical stimulation. The HPLC identification of labelled compounds derived from 3H-Adenosine (3H-Ado) (employed to preload the cultures) indicated that nucleotides and nucleosides were represented in the superfusate in equivalent proportions (43.86% and 56.14% respectively). Very much higher amounts of unlabelled purines prevalently constituted by nucleotides compounds (91.10%) were also released and detectable in the superfusate. In all the experimental conditions their evoked release did not result frequency-dependent. Since: a linear increase related to the stimulation frequencies was found for the released labelled compounds; no labelled purines were assayed in 5 x 10-5M Dipyridamole-treated cultures; any significant presence of labelled nucleotides, inosine and hypoxantine was not found in cultures simultaneously treated with 1 x 10-5M 2'-deoxycoformycin and 1 x 10-4M 1-(-5-isoquinolinsulfonyl)-2-methylpiperizine (H7) (3H-Ado amounts resulted more than doubled in these experimental conditions); labelled compounds have been assumed as tracers of a glial purine rate whose release can be connected to electrically-evoked action potentials. Purine outflow from glial cells is not sodium dependent, in fact TTX (5 x 10-7M) did not affect their basal or electrically-evoked release. A remarkable calcium-dependence was also evidentiated by the 1 x 10-4M Verapamil-induced inhibition of basal and evoked release. TEA (1 x 10-2M), a specific inhibitor of potassium efflux throughout calcium-mediated specific channels, strongly reduced the evoked purine outflow and any additive effect of its was not detectable when administered simultaneously to the calcium antagonist. These findings indicate that the frequency-dependent purine release from cultured glial cells is linked to ionic mechanisms, which calcium and potassium are mainly involved in.
We report the stoichiometric phosphorylation of an inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor-binding protein from rat brain by the cAMP-dependent protein kinase but not by protein kinase C or Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase. This phosphorylation event does not markedly alter [3H]inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate-binding characteristics. However, inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate is only 10% as potent in releasing 45Ca2+ from phosphorylated, as compared with native, cerebellar microsomes. Phosphorylation of the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate-binding protein by the cAMP-dependent protein kinase may provide a biochemical substrate for second-messenger cross talk.
Prospects for research advances in alcoholism are very promising, because of the explosion in the neurosciences and advances in epidemiology and typology of the disorder. For example, the field is now ready for molecular genetics studies of the early onset form of alcoholism that is transmitted from father to son with high penetrance. Leading neuroscientists are being recruited into alcoholism research. Paradoxically, this time of new hope coincides with challenges to the scientific enterprise, such as the animal rights movement and impatience with the scientific process in the face of the public health emergencies represented by acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) and drug abuse. The emergence of genetically based subtypes of alcoholism suggests that at least two discrete illness processes are involved. Mounting evidence from spinal fluid studies has rekindled interest in a key role for serotonin in the early onset form of alcoholism. One hypothesis now being explored is that genetically low brain serotonin function may be part of the predisposition to this form of alcoholism. It is known that acute alcohol intake transiently increases brain serotonin turnover. Thus, drinking might be viewed as an attempt to correct a deficit, only to produce further serotonin depletion as the drug's effect wears off, setting up a vicious cycle of repeated attempts to self-medicate. Impulsive, violent, and suicidal behavior as well as alcohol abuse are associated with the low brain serotonin activity. Persons with these problems suffer from circadian rhythm and glucose metabolism disturbances that may also be mediated by serotonin. New pharmacological probes are now available to tease out the mechanisms of altered serotonin function. The progressively deteriorating course of severe episodic alcoholism in many ways parallels the process of electrically kindled seizures in experimental animals. There is evidence that repeated withdrawal episodes may kindle a worsening course, including phobic disorders, perhaps by triggering a hyper-reactive noradrenalin system.


Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were undertaken in cultured mouse hippocampal neurons in order to investigate time-dependent changes in: (i) currents evoked by L-aspartic acid (Asp) and kainic acid (KAI), two excitatory amino acids active at N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) and KAI receptor sites respectively, and (ii) tetrodotoxin (TTX) resistant voltage-dependent inward currents carried by Ca2+. Consistent with previous observations, Ca2+ currents gradually run down unless a support system containing Mg-ATP, phosphocreatine and creatinine phosphokinase is added to the intracellular medium. Here we report that, in addition to suppressing the rundown of currents through voltage-gated Ca2+ channels, such a support system is also necessary to prevent rundown of ionic currents through excitatory amino acid-gated channels of the NMDA type. When this support system was omitted from the recording pipette, currents induced by Asp, but not KAI, progressively declined over a period of 20 min and stabilized at values of about 50% of the initial. This progressive decline occurred regardless of the extent of intraneuronal Ca2+ buffering, indicating that it was not due to accumulation of cytosolic Ca2+. After the rundown, reversal potentials of ASP-induced currents were the same whether recorded with or without the intracellular support system and the Asp induced currents could be blocked by the specific NMDA channel blocker ketamine. We conclude that ionic currents through NMDA gated channels have two components: one requires high-energy phosphates and will run down if these are not supplied; the other requires no such supply and remains steady.
A comparison has been made between [3H]pirenzepine binding to the M1 receptor population of rat cerebral cortex and [3H]N-methylscopolamine binding to M2 receptors in rat cardiac membranes. Several standard muscarinic antagonists including trihexyphenidyl HCl, benztropine, biperidin and 4-DAMP (4-diphenylacetoxy-N-methyl piperidine methiodide) showed some selectivity for the M1 binding assay. Dicyclomine and hexahydrosiladifenidol were the only antagonists with a selectivity approaching that of pirenzepine. Gallamine and AFDX-116 were the only M2 (cardiac) selective antagonists. Muscarinic agonists displayed profiles which could be classified into two groups, apparently related to their intrinsic activity. One group displayed apparent selectivity for the heart, with low Hill coefficients and contained full agonists such as acetylcholine. The second group displayed less selectivity, intermediate Hill coefficients and contained partial agonists such as pilocarpine. Thus muscarinic agents can distinguish between different tissues not only on the basis of receptor selectivity, but also by recognition of high and low agonist affinity states. Thus the intrinsic activity of a muscarinic agonist may reflect an apparent but not true receptor-mediated selectivity.
We have studied the lateral rectus muscles and neuromuscular junctions (NMJs) of abducens motoneurons in wobbler (wr/wr) mutant mice from 26 to 58 days of age. The muscles of wr/wr weighed about 70% of the weight of littermate controls and were composed of fiber types comparable to those of controls, as assayed by succinate dehydrogenase activity. The most obvious difference between wr/wr and control NMJs was a reduction in the length of the postjunctional membrane of wr/wr mice. The mutant muscle endplate membrane was only about 70% (6.58 micron) the length of control muscle regions (9.44 micron). There were no obvious differences at the light microscopic level in the distribution of acetylcholine (ACh) receptors at junctional regions or staining of acetylcholinesterase, as assayed with alpha-bungarotoxin binding or enzyme histochemistry. Indirect immunocytochemical studies using antibodies directed against the subunits of the ACh receptor failed to indicate an abnormal presence of immature receptors clustered at the NMJs of wr/wr mice. Our findings suggest that the formation or maintenance of normal postjunctional folds and the differentiation of receptors at the junctions are under independent control during development. Furthermore, the wobbler mutation may affect muscle cell differentiation as well as neuronal differentiation. This mutant mouse should prove a useful model for study of postjunctional fold formation and function.
Transfer of the fluorescent dye, Lucifer yellow (LY), from an intracellularly injected neuron to one or more other neurons is accepted as indirect evidence of electrotonic interactions among such dye coupled cells. Direct evidence requires that at least two coupled cells be recorded from simultaneously and such evidence in the CNS has been gained only for hippocampal pyramidal neurons. Since interpretations of the functional significance of dye coupling among magnocellular neuroendocrine cells depend upon its relation to electrical coupling, we sought to obtain direct evidence for electrotonic interactions in such neurons. Over 150 pairs of supraoptic nucleus (SON) neurons in hypothalamic slices were recorded from intracellularly using one LY and one potassium acetate electrode in each instance. Of these, 9 pairs were studied in sufficient detail to determine that they were electrically coupled. Most of the remaining pairs were determined not to be coupled. In each coupled pair of cells, membrane voltage changes due to spontaneously occurring or current evoked action potentials, as well as current evoked hyperpolarizations, in one cell were reflected in similar, though attenuated changes in the other cell. All of these changes occurred simultaneously in the two neurons. Spontaneously arising postsynaptic potentials in the two cells were temporally uncorrelated. In each case that electrical coupling was observed, dye coupling resulted from LY injection. Coupling ratios ranged from 0.05 to 0.2. Capacitative coupling between the recording electrodes as an artifact was ruled out since cells in the same tissue penetration as the coupled cell showed no responses to membrane voltage changes in the primary cell; no responses were seen with the second electrode placed extracellularly or in the medium; and similar coupling potentials were also seen when one cell was recorded without a second electrode present. We conclude that electrical coupling exists among magnocellular neurons of the SON and that the incidence of dye coupling is a reasonable estimate of the incidence of electrical coupling. These electrotonic interactions probably play important roles in the coordination of firing among magnocellular neurosecretory neurons.
This study explores the longitudinal assessment of visual evoked potentials (VEPs) in the rabbit as a method for defining factors underlying functional and structural changes associated with optic neuritis and the inflammatory demyelinating diseases. In rabbits with experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) induced by sensitization with guinea pig spinal cord myelin, injection of lymphokines into the posterior chamber of one eye (monocular challenge) produces an early inflammatory response in the retina and optic nerve, and an alteration in the VEP, all limited to the injected eye and its projections. The earliest changes in the timing and distribution of the cortical VEP occur within hours of ocular challenge and precede histopathological evidence of structural demyelination at the light microscope level. Prechallenge assessment allows the induced monocular prechiasmal effects to be distinguished from the more diffuse electrophysiological findings associated with EAE (i.e. those due to sensitization alone). In sensitized/challenged animals there is a clear correspondence between electrophysiological and morphological measures of dysfunction at the time points sampled. These results suggest that this model system afford an excellent opportunity to examine the precise structural correlates of the early functional changes associated with the onset of inflammatory demyelination within the CNS. Furthermore, the stability of the system provides the capacity to monitor alterations over the complete course of inflammation, demyelination and remyelination, induced by experimental manipulations.
The duration of the calcium component of the action potential (APD) of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons in mouse spinal cord-ganglion explants has been shown to be dually modulated via excitatory and inhibitory opioid receptors. In order to determine if opioid-induced APD prolongation is modulated by receptors that are positively coupled to the adenylate cyclase (AC)/cyclic AMP second messenger system, whole-cell recordings were made from mouse DRG neurons grown in dissociated cell cultures. Tests for opioid responsivity were carried out after intracellular dialysis of an inhibitor of cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKI). In control recordings, both DADLE-induced APD prolongation as well as shortening were prevented by co-perfusion with the opioid antagonist, diprenorphine (10 nM). Intracellular dialysis of PKI in these neurons completely blocked opioid-induced APD prolongation but did not attenuate APD shortening generally elicited by higher opioid concentrations. Bath perfusion of 10 nM DADLE elicited APD prolongation in 59% of the DRG neurons (n = 34) tested with control solution in the recording pipette, whereas none showed APD prolongation when the pipette contained PKI (n = 18). In control tests with 1 microM DADLE, the APD was prolonged in 37% of the cells and shortened in 26% (n = 19); in contrast, a matched group of PKI-treated cells showed no APD prolongation, whereas 42% showed APD shortening (n = 26). The results support the hypothesis that opioid-induced APD prolongation in DRG neurons is mediated by opioid receptor subtypes that are positively coupled via Gs to AC/cAMP-dependent voltage-sensitive ionic conductances.

The distribution of cells containing CuZn superoxide dismutase (CuZn SOD) was determined in hippocampi and associative cortex from normal and Alzheimer's individuals by using antisera against native and denatured CuZn SOD proteins. Immunostaining was intense in large pyramidal neurons, moderate in hippocampal granule cells and very weak in other cells. In the hippocampus of an Alzheimer's patient, successive immunostaining of the same tissue section by anti CuZn SOD and anti paired helical filaments antisera show that both normal and degenerating cells are labelled by the anti CuZn SOD antiserum. Thus, large pyramidal neurons which are potentially susceptible to degenerative processes in AD have the property to contain higher amounts of CuZn SOD than other brain cells.
Neural cells in culture (NG-108, PC12, chick dorsal root ganglion, chick spinal cord, and rat astrocytes) bind laminin with an apparent Kd of congruent to 10(-9) M. Laminin affinity chromatography of chick brain membranes washed with 150 mM NaCl and eluted with 0.2 M glycine buffer, pH 3.5, yields a single protein with an apparent molecular mass of 67 kDa by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis under reducing conditions. Isoelectric focusing and peptide mapping indicate that the 67-kDa protein is distinct from bovine serum albumin (68 kDa) but indistinguishable from high affinity laminin receptors isolated from skeletal muscle. After electroblotting onto nitrocellulose paper and probing with 125I-laminin, this putative laminin receptor binds laminin specifically (100 ng/ml). A second protein (congruent to 120-140 kDa) is also detected with 125I-laminin (100 ng/ml) in the laminin affinity-purified membrane proteins. Both 67- and congruent to 120-140-kDa proteins can be laminin affinity-purified from cultures enriched for neurons (greater than 90%) following metabolic labeling with [35S]methionine. Our data suggest that neural cells (dorsal root ganglion, central nervous system neurons, astrocytes, and several neural cell lines) have high affinity binding sites for laminin and that two membrane proteins, 67- and congruent to 120-140-kDa, are responsible at least in part for this binding.
The anatomic relationships between projections from the intermediate portion of the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS) and phenylethanolamine N-methyl transferaselike-immunoreactive (PNMT-LI) cells in the medulla oblongata were analyzed in Sprague-Dawley rats by using two-color immunoperoxidase staining combined with the anterograde transport of Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin (PHA-L). PHA-L was iontophoretically deposited in the intermediate region of the NTS and the subjacent dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (DMX) at the level of the middle of the area postrema. Black-stained PHA-L-immunoreactive (PHA-LI) fibers and terminals were present throughout the length of the ipsilateral NTS, where many were seen in close apposition to amber-stained PNMT-LI cells belonging to the C2 cell group. Less profuse PHA-LI projections were present in the contralateral NTS, especially at the level of the PHA-L deposit. Bundles of smooth fibers emerged from the lateral edge of the DMX and could be followed to the ventrolateral surface of the medulla; these were likely vagal efferent fibers. PHA-LI terminal arborizations were prominent in the region of the nucleus ambiguus (NA) and amongst PNMT-LI cells in the lateral C1 cell group ventral to NA. Multiple sites of contiguity between PHA-LI varicose fibers or boutons and PNMT-LI cells in C1 were observed frequently and probably represent sites of functional connection.
Saposin D, a newly discovered heat-stable, 10 kDa glycoprotein, was isolated from Gaucher spleen and purified to homogeneity. Chemical sequencing from its amino terminus demonstrated colinearity between its amino acid sequence and the deduced amino acid sequence of the fourth domain of prosaposin, the precursor of saposin proteins. Saposin D specifically stimulates acid sphingomyelinase but has no significant effect on the other hydrolases tested.
Calcium transfer across the blood-nerve barrier of the frog sciatic nerve was studied using an in situ perfusion technique and an in vivo i.v. bolus injection technique. The permeability-surface area product of 45Ca at the blood-nerve barrier, (PA)BNB, calculated from radioactivity in the desheathed nerve segment after 5 min of circulation of tracer, and corrected for the residual radioactivity in the blood space, equaled 4.4 +/- 0.4 (S.E.M.) X 10(-5) ml.s-1.g-1 wet wt. The (PA)BNB of 45Ca was independent of [Ca2+] in the perfusion medium between 0.18 and 18 mM. The permeability-surface area products of 45Ca across the perineurium [(PA)per] also was measured by an in situ incubation technique, and equaled 1.45 +/- 0.41 X 10(-5) ml.s-1.g-1 wet wt. (n = 8). The half time (t 1/2) for nerve calcium to equilibrate with plasma calcium was calculated to be 60 min. The low, passive permeability to calcium of the blood-nerve barrier probably limits marked calcium concentration changes in nerve endoneurium following transient changes of plasma calcium, but should not alter steady-state responses.
Extracellular recordings were obtained from mesencephalic dopamine neurons in urethane-anesthetized rats. A population of neurons responded to electrical stimulation of the frontal cortex with bursts of action potentials. These bursts resembled those that occur spontaneously in midbrain dopamine neurons with regard to length, interspike interval and post-burst inhibition. This is the first afferent input known to elicit bursting in dopamine neurons.
Regional brain and plasma concentrations were determined for a series of radiotracers that differ in molecular weight and size in pentobarbital-anesthetized rats at 1, 5 and 30 min after i.v. injection. The tracers, [3H]inulin (mol. wt. 5000 Da, radius 1.5 nm), 5 [3H]dextrans (10,000-200,000 Da, 2.3-9.5 nm) and [51Cr]transferrin (79,000 Da, 3.8 nm), are not taken up into erythrocytes and do not measurably cross the blood-brain barrier in 30 min. Results were expressed as a brain distribution volume, defined as (dpm/g brain)/(dpm/ml plasma). Within 1 min after injection, all tracers attained an initial distribution volume which varied regionally from 0.4 to 1.6 X 10(-2) ml/g. The volumes remained constant between 1 and 30 min for tracers with radii greater than or equal to 3.8 nm, whereas the volumes increased up to 90% for tracers with radii less than or equal to 3.1 nm. Rates of equilibration for tracers with radii less than or equal to 3.1 nm were size dependent with smaller tracers equilibrating before larger tracers. These results indicate that the brain distribution volume for plasma tracers consists of two compartments: one which is quickly filled (less than or equal to 1 min) by all tracers and comprises approximately 60% of the total volume, and one which allows only tracers with radii less than or equal to 3.1 nm and comprises 40% of the total volume. The inverse relation between the rate of equilibration in the second compartment and molecular size may indicate a diffusion limitation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The effect of the non-opioid antitussive caramiphen was studied in the rat maximal electroshock test. Caramiphen produced a dose- and time-dependent blockade of tonic hindlimb extension and was nearly twice as potent as the prototypical anticonvulsant drug diphenylhydantoin. Pretreatment with a subthreshold-effective dose of caramiphen potentiated the anticonvulsant effects of diphenylhydantoin, lowering its ED50 33-fold. The anticonvulsant effects of caramiphen were not associated with its cholinolytic activity since (a) its anticonvulsant effects were not antagonized by physostigmine and (b) the more potent cholinolytic atropine was only weakly effective against maximal electroshock convulsions when tested at doses 25 times the minimally effective dose of caramiphen. Anticonvulsant effects of caramiphen were associated with minimal behavioral impairment. The results demonstrate that caramiphen is a potent anticonvulsant against generalized convulsions and, like other non-opioid antitussives, will enhance the anticonvulsant properties of diphenylhydantoin. It is suggested that the anticonvulsant effects of caramiphen result from specific binding to brain receptors labelled by the non-opioid antitussive dextromethorphan, and that the interactions with diphenylhydantoin involve allosteric interactions between the different binding sites.
The reversible acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, physostigmine, stimulated in a dose-dependent manner the accumulation of [3H]inositol monophosphate ([3H]IP1) in lithium-treated neostriatal slices. The muscarinic agonists, carbachol and oxotremorine, also stimulated [3H]IP1 accumulation. Atropine completely blocked the physostigmine-induced accumulation but had no effect on the basal accumulation. Tetrodotoxin partially inhibited the physostigmine-induced [3H]IP1 accumulation but had no effect on the carbachol-induced accumulation. 4-Aminopyridine stimulated the basal [3H]IP1 accumulation and potentiated the physostigmine-induced accumulation. This potentiation was blocked by tetrodotoxin. The physostigmine dose-response curve for the stimulation of [3H]IP1 accumulation was similar to its dose-response curve to inhibit acetylcholinesterase activity in the neostriatum. The results suggest that, under our experimental conditions, the acetylcholine released spontaneously from intrinsic cholinergic neurons does not activate the striatal muscarinic receptors coupled to phosphoinositide breakdown unless the intrinsic acetylcholinesterases are inhibited.


Previous observations show that neonatal removal of nerve growth factor results in an increased number of fine dorsal root axons in the adult animal. The present study shows that the same treatment results in 49% more axons in the adult tract of Lissauer, which is an area of spinal white matter that contains predominantly fine primary afferent axons. These data are consistent with the idea that postnatal removal of NGF leads to increased numbers of fine primary afferent axons which then pass into the white matter of the spinal cord and there make synaptic contacts. If so, this would be a useful preparation for studies on the mechanisms by which newly formed sensory axons can be induced to enter the spinal cord postnatally.
Dopaminergic control of striatal neurons is retained in rats sustaining lesions of the nigrostriatal bundle (NSB) as long as 10% of the projection remains, suggesting that enhanced efficiency of dopamine (DA) transmission may compensate for the denervation of the striatum. To examine this hypothesis we have studied the extracellular concentration of striatal DA using brain dialysis. In control rats, haloperidol (1 mg/kg, i.p.) or depolarization of striatal tissue with 25 mM KCl increased, and gamma-butyrolactone (500 mg/kg, i.p.) decreased DA and homovanillic acid (HVA) levels in striatal dialysates. Three weeks after unilateral injection of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) to substantia nigra, DA content in the ipsilateral striatum was decreased by 60-98%. Nevertheless, extracellular DA concentration in the lesioned striata remained unchanged in rats with 60-90% DA depletions. More extensive lesions (96% DA depletion) were accompanied by 60% reduction in DA release. In contrast, extracellular HVA levels in the lesioned striata decreased proportionally to the depletion of tissue DA, indicating decreased inactivation of extracellular DA. We propose that the capacity of the residual DA terminals to maintain normal levels of extracellular DA after 60-90% NSB lesions may serve to compensate for the partial denervation of the striatal tissue. Disruption of striatal DA functions and postsynaptic supersensitivity after more extensive lesions may be associated with the failure of the NSB to fully compensate for loss of DA terminals. In striata contralateral to the 6-OHDA lesions, increased DA release was also observed. In addition, 60-90% ipsilateral DA depletions were accompanied by 32% and 42% increases in DA and HVA content in contralateral tissue, respectively. The possibility of the contralateral sprouting of DA terminals is discussed.
The objectives of this study are 1) to examine the potential of [3H]saxitoxin binding as a marker for the neuronal membranes in canine small intestinal muscle membrane preparations, 2) to develop a synaptosomal preparation from deep muscular plexus, and 3) to partially characterize [3H]saxitoxin binding to this fraction. A purified synaptosomal fraction, relatively low in the smooth muscle plasma membrane marker enzyme 5'-nucleotidase but enriched in [3H]saxitoxin binding (2,592 fmol/mg), was obtained on sucrose density gradient. Vasoactive intestinal peptide immunoreactivity was also highest (51.82 pmol/mg protein) in this fraction. The binding was rapid at 20 degrees C with quick and complete dissociation after the addition of excess unlabeled tetrodotoxin (TTX). Scatchard analysis of the saturation binding data revealed a single population of binding sites (Bmax = 5,705 fmol/mg protein). The affinity constants calculated from the kinetic and saturation data were in close agreement (Kd = 0.26 and 0.69 nM, respectively). TTX competed for the binding (Ki = 2.1 nM), whereas veratridine and guanidinium hydrochloride did not. Monovalent and divalent cations had differential effects on the binding.
The canine lower esophageal sphincter (LES) was evaluated as a model for investigation of the electrophysiology of nonadrenergic noncholinergic neurotransmission. The LES contained a dense collection of gap junctions and a moderate number of nerves located at the periphery of muscle bundles, which are often associated with interstitial cells of Cajal. These cells make gap junctions with one another and with smooth muscle cells. The nerve varicosities contained many large dense cored vesicles. In vitro the LES produced spontaneous active tone and relaxed to field stimulation that was blocked by tetrodotoxin (TTX). Increase of stimulus duration or frequency produced a partially TTX-insensitive sphincter relaxation. Basal tone and nerve-mediated relaxation were unaffected by cholinergic, histaminergic, or adrenergic antagonists. Acetylcholine, carbachol, or histamine caused TTX-insensitive contractions mediated by M2- and H1-receptors, respectively. Vasoactive intestinal peptide (10(-6) M) and isoproterenol (10(-6) M) relaxed the LES to the same extent as field stimulation. In the double sucrose gap this tissue regularly produced inhibitory junction potentials when field stimulated. The canine LES has appropriate morphological and pharmacological properties for the electrophysiological study of nonadrenergic noncholinergic neural responses, their mechanisms, and mediators.
Excessive activation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) subtype of glutamate receptor has been implicated in the sequence of neurochemical events that results in irreversible neuronal damage in cerebral ischemia. The effects of the NMDA antagonist (+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-imine maleate (MK-801) upon the amount of ischemic brain damage has been assessed quantitatively in the lightly anesthetized rat. Focal cerebral ischemia was produced by the permanent occlusion of one middle cerebral artery (MCA), and the animals were killed 3 hours after the arterial occlusion. MK-801 (0.5 mg/kg) was administered intravenously either 30 minutes prior to MCA occlusion or 30 minutes after the induction of ischemia. Pretreatment with MK-801 reduced the volume of ischemic damage both in the cerebral cortex (by 38% compared with untreated rats with MCA occlusion; p less than 0.01) and in the caudate nucleus (by 18% compared with controls; p less than 0.05). Treatment with MK-801, initiated 30 minutes after MCA occlusion, reduced the volume of ischemic damage in the cerebral cortex (by 52% compared with controls; p less than 0.01). The volume of ischemic damage in the caudate nucleus was minimally influenced by MK-801 treatment initiated after MCA occlusion. The antiischemic effects of MK-801 were readily demonstrable despite the hypotension that MK-801 induced in rats anesthetized with halothane (0.5%), nitrous oxide (70%), and oxygen (30%). The potency of MK-801 in reducing ischemic brain damage, even when administered after the induction of ischemia, highlights the potential use of NMDA receptor antagonists for the treatment of focal cerebral ischemia in humans.
Results of biological and psychosocial studies of depression completed in the last decade have stimulated the need for new hypotheses that synthesize these findings in a unified etiologic theory. The importance of disruption of biological rhythms on the one hand, and psychosocial losses on the other, in the causation of depressive episodes suggest one possible unifying hypothesis. The concept of loss of &quot;social zeitgebers,&quot; ie, persons, social demands, or tasks that set the biological clock, may provide the link between biological and psychosocial theories of etiology. We suggest that a disruption of social rhythms, which may result in instability in biological rhythms, could be responsible for triggering the onset of a major depressive episode in vulnerable individuals.


The problems of differentiation between environmental and genetic influences on the development of multiple sclerosis are well known. Twin studies may provide valuable information on this question. However, most published twin series are selected and no through clinical twin studies based on epidemiologic series have been carried out. In this study, all available same-sex twin pairs with clinically definite multiple sclerosis derived from the Finnish Twin Cohort of 15815 pairs were studied by clinical evaluation, magnetic resonance imaging, and visual and auditory evoked responses. The mean length of follow-up of the pairs after the onset of symptoms of multiple sclerosis was 20 years. Two of the seven monozygotic pairs were concordant; one was definitely so, and in the other, the co-twin of the index case had, in addition to clinical findings, white matter changes suggestive of multiple sclerosis in magnetic resonance imaging and abnormal visual evoked responses. All six dizygotic pairs were discordant. The frequency of the HLA antigen DR2 in probands (69%) was significantly increased, but the distribution among the healthy subjects and patients showed nonsignificant differences. The results indicate a genetic influence on the susceptibility to multiple sclerosis, although still unknown genetic determinants are possible involved.
The need for standardized operational definitions, as well as a more sensitive, easily applied, and reproducible upper extremity functional assessment for following patients in multiple sclerosis clinical trials is evident. Experience with the use of two upper extremity functional assessment instruments--the nine-hole peg test (9HPT) and the box-and-block test (BBT)--is described. The patients, who were followed for six months, experienced subjective change in functional status but failed to show significant change on the pyramidal, cerebellar, or visual functional scores of the Kurtzke Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS). The prevalence of upper extremity dysfunction in multiple sclerosis, as measured by the 9HPT and the BBT, is higher than previously appreciated. The 9HPT and BBT are more sensitive in detecting upper extremity functional status change than the EDSS and should prove helpful in following patients in clinical trials.
Photoradiation therapy depends on the selective retention of a photosensitizer within the tumour followed by activation of the sensitizer by irradiating the tumour with light of the appropriate wavelength. The present methods of treatment of cerebral glioma are inadequate and the possible benefit of utilizing photoradiation therapy to obtain improved local control of the tumour has been studied in the laboratory and in clinical trials. The biological basis for photoradiation therapy and the laboratory studies and clinical trials involving the use of photoradiation therapy to treat cerebral tumours are discussed.
The human brain produces a characteristic electrical response to relevant events that occur unexpectedly. Recent reports have suggested that a prominent part of this event-related brain potential--the P3 wave--may be related to memory functions and may arise from activity within the medial temporal lobe, especially the hippocampus. The latter idea was tested by means of epidural recordings of brain waves in monkeys. Responses to deviant auditory stimuli bore a close resemblance to P3 waves recorded from human subjects under comparable conditions. Monkeys with bilateral lesions of the medial temporal lobe still produced P3-like brain waves, which indicates that medial temporal brain structures are not critical for their generation.
We examined the mechanism by which adenosine inhibits prolactin secretion from GH3 cells, a rat pituitary tumour line. Prolactin release is enhanced by vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), which increases cyclic AMP, and by thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH), which increases inositol phosphates (IPx). Analogues of adenosine decreased prolactin release, VIP-stimulated cyclic AMP accumulation and TRH-stimulated inositol phospholipid hydrolysis and IPx generation. Inhibition of InsP3 production by R-N6-phenylisopropyladenosine (R-PIA) was rapid (15 s) and was not affected by the addition of forskolin or the removal of external Ca2+. Addition of adenosine deaminase or the potent adenosine-receptor antagonist, BW-A1433U, enhanced the accumulation of cyclic AMP by VIP, indicating that endogenously produced adenosine tonically inhibits adenylate cyclase. The potency order of adenosine analogues for inhibition of cyclic AMP and IPx responses (measured in the presence of adenosine deaminase) was N6-cyclopentyladenosine greater than R-PIA greater than 5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine. This rank order indicates that inhibitions of both cyclic AMP and InsP3 production are mediated by adenosine A1 receptors. Responses to R-PIA were blocked by BW-A1433U (1 microM) or by pretreatment of cells with pertussis toxin. A greater amount of toxin was required to eliminate the effect of R-PIA on inositol phosphate than on cyclic AMP accumulation. These data indicate that adenosine, in addition to inhibiting cyclic AMP accumulation, decreases IPx production in GH3 cells, possibly by directly inhibiting phosphoinositide hydrolysis.
Interest in the long-neglected neuropathology of major affective disorders has recently been rekindled, partly because of the emergence of brain-imaging techniques. We review the literature suggesting that attention be given to the neuroanatomy and neuropathology of primary and secondary affective disorders. Computerised tomography studies show that patients with affective disorders tend to be similar to schizophrenic patients and significantly different from normal control subjects in ventricle:brain ratio, sulcal widening, and cerebellar vermian atrophy. As yet, there are few neuropathological investigations of the brains of patients with primary affective disorders. Suggestions for further research in the neuropathology of affective disorders are offered.
The development of calmodulin stimulated protein phosphorylation, with particular reference to calmodulin-stimulated protein kinase II (CMK II), was investigated in 3 subcellular fractions of chicken forebrain: cytosol (S3), crude synaptic plasma membranes (P2-M) and occluded cytosol (P2-S). Changes in the level of calmodulin-stimulated phosphorylation of endogenous proteins occurred over a protracted time course and were not complete until after day 52 post-hatching. By day 15 post-hatching, calmodulin-stimulated phosphoproteins characteristic of embryonic fractions had all disappeared and those characteristic of adult tissue were present but not necessarily at their mature levels. The levels of CMK II were estimated from the autophosphorylation of the alpha-subunit which was the only phosphoprotein present at 53,000 Da in the 3 fractions. Overall, calmodulin-stimulated phosphorylation and CMK II levels were low in embryonic brain and high in adult brain but two specific changes in CMK II were observed during development: (1) although CMK II concentrations increased in both membrane and cytosolic fractions until day 23 the kinase was predominantly cytoplasmic (approximately 75%) until day 23, after which it became increasingly membrane bound so that by day 52 post-hatching the majority of CMK II was present in the synaptic membrane fraction, and (2) the relative concentrations of the alpha- and beta-subunits changed from an alpha:beta-value of approximately 1:1 in the 19 day embryo to approximately 1:2 by 15 days post-hatch after which no further change was seen. The occurrence of major changes in the calmodulin stimulated protein phosphorylation system for up to 6-8 weeks after synapse formation is completed in the forebrain, provides further support for the existence of a synapse maturation phase of neuronal differentiation which is distinct from synapse formation. This phase involves only a specific subset of the developmental changes occurring in the calmodulin-stimulated phosphorylation system.
The net level of cyclic AMP-stimulated protein phosphorylation was investigated in cytosolic and membrane fractions from chicken forebrain between embryonic day 13 (E13) and 52 days post-hatching. Throughout this period the majority of the net level of cAMP-stimulated phosphorylation of endogenous proteins was in the cytosolic fractions. Between day -8 (E13) and adult, the net level of cAMP-stimulated phosphorylation of endogenous proteins in the cytosol (S3) and crude synaptic plasma membrane (P2-M) fractions fell by 3 and 4 fold, respectively, when expressed per mg protein and rose by 5 and 10 fold, respectively, when expressed per fraction. The changes in specific activity were completed by 6-15 days post-hatching. The occluded cytosol (P2-S) fraction showed little change in the net level of cAMP-stimulated phosphorylation of endogenous proteins per mg protein. Major changes in phosphoprotein patterns involving both decreases and increases in phosphorylation occurred in all fractions from day -8 (E13) to day 6 post-hatch; thereafter the phosphoprotein bands and their relative intensities were unchanged. Three bands (P90 in S3; P41 and P31 in P2-M) contained major cAMP-stimulated phosphoproteins in embryonic brain but were absent after hatching. When cAMP-stimulated phosphorylation activity was measured in S3 and P-2M using an exogenous peptide substrate (Kemptide) there was no change in kinase activity per mg protein between day -8 (E13) and 30 days post-hatch. This suggests that the decrease in the net level of cAMP stimulated phosphorylation of endogenous proteins was due to the decrease in levels of endogenous phosphoproteins rather than protein kinase activity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A portable signal generator that simulates the amplitude and frequency of neuronal signals for testing extracellular recording amplifiers is described. The signal generator is easy to construct and it is extremely useful in tracing signal processing stages in neurophysiological equipment.
Adult, nulliparous female rats were induced to behave maternally via constant cohousing with rat pups. After exhibiting maternal behaviors for 3 days, the animals were transcardially perfused, the supraoptic nuclei (SON) excised and examined quantitatively by transmission electron microscopy. Relative to virgin controls, the animals behaving maternally were found to have significant increases in: a) mean number of dendrites in large (9-12) dendritic bundles, b) mean area per single dendritic profile, c) area of the dendritic zone occupied by dendritic profiles and d) size of the dendritic zone. No significant changes were observed in the cell body zone or in the number of double synapses in the dendritic region. The observed changes are likely to be at least in part associated with the oxytocin-containing cells of the SON. These observations suggest a role for the SON in promoting maternal behaviors and constitute a novel demonstration of a neural modification in the mammalian central nervous system that appears conjointly with a complex set of behaviors.

Lesion placement in the massa intermedia (MI) prior to amygdaloid (AM) kindling distinctively modifies the pattern of transhemispheric ictal transmission to one similar to that of forebrain-bisected cats, and eliminates the positive transfer effect (Hiyoshi and Wada 1988). Since the mechanism of AM seizure development is not the same as that for maintenance of AM-kindled seizure susceptibility, the effect of MI lesioning on established primary site AM-kindled seizures and secondary site AM kindling was studied in 8 cats. Upon the first primary site AM restimulation following MI lesioning, all animals responded with established bisymmetrical generalized tonic-clonic convulsions. Subsequent secondary site AM kindling showed (1) a distinctively modified seizure pattern identical to that observed during primary site kindling in cats with 'prior-to-kindling' MI lesions, and (2) complete absence of positive transfer effects. At primary site retest, the animals again responded with an established bisymmetrical convulsion and a marked interference effect (negative aftereffect) was noted. It is concluded that (1) the positive transfer effect at the contralateral homotopic AM is primary site hemisphere dependent, (2) the MI is critically involved in this effect, (3) the MI is not critical for maintaining the bisymmetrical pattern of AM-kindled convulsions, and (4) the mechanisms underlying the transhemispheric positive and negative transfer effects are different.
Nine cats with electrolytic lesion in the massa intermedia (MI, N = 8) and ipsilateral nucleus centrum medianum (CM, N = 1) underwent primary and secondary site amygdaloid (AM) kindling and primary site retest. During primary site kindling, MI- but not CM-lesioned animals showed a pattern of seizure development strikingly similar to that of forebrain-bisected cats and the development of contralateral hemiconvulsive seizure was coincident with the onset of afterdischarge (AD) in the ipsilateral motor cortex. Unlike the forebrain-bisected ones, the MI-lesioned animals eventually developed bisymmetrical clonic convulsion with initial contralateral and then ipsilateral clonic involvement. At the secondary site, no positive transfer effect was noted in 1 CM-lesioned and 6/7 MI-lesioned cats. When the primary site was retested, a marked interference effect was observed. The lesion site responsible for these unique kindling features was in the rostral half of the MI with varying involvement of the nucleus centralis medialis (NCM). It is concluded that the MI plays an important role both for transhemispheric ictal propagation and for positive transfer effect in feline AM kindling. However, the mechanisms underlying these two phenomenon are unlikely to be the same since these effects can be totally divorced.
To study the retrograde labeling of intact and axotomized retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) over long periods of time, we applied the carbocyanine dye diI to the superior colliculi (SC) and dorsal lateral geniculate nuclei (dLGN) in adult albino rats and examined the retinas by fluorescence microscopy after different periods of survival. Retrogradely labeled RGCs, which were observed in the retinas as early as 3 days after application of the dye, gradually increased in density so that by 7 days more than 80% of the RGCs were labeled and by 30 days diI-labeled cell densities were similar to those observed after short applications of other tracers. Using short-term retrograde labeling with fast blue (FB) as an independent marker of RGCs, it was determined that these neurons remained labeled with diI for periods of up to 9 months without apparent leakage of the tracer to other retinal cells. In addition, diI labeling persisted in the somata of more than 80% of axotomized RGCs whose contact with the source of label had been interrupted for 3 months. Thus, we propose that retrogradely transported diI is a useful label for quantitative studies of neuronal populations, even after axotomy.
The present study evaluates how the activity of neurons in the dentate gyrus of adult rats is affected by removal of the projection from the ipsilateral entorhinal cortex (EC) and by the reinnervation which follows this injury. We evaluated the average firing rate and characterized interstimulus interval (ISI) parameters for single units in the granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus in two ways: (I) by recording the activity of single neurons prior to and at 15 min and 2, 4, 6, and 8 h. following a unilateral EC lesion; and (II) by calculating average rates for samples of neurons at 2, 4, 6, 8, and 14 days postlesion. Of a sample of 31 neurons whose activity was recorded before and after an EC lesion, 27 (87%) showed decreased activity, and 4 (13%) showed increased activity. The average prelesion firing rate for all cells was 6.5 spikes/s, and the average rate decreased to 2.5 spikes/s at 15 min postlesion. The average firing rate remained depressed for the 8-h recording session, although it was not possible to maintain the recordings for all cells. Evaluations of ISI histograms revealed three general types: (a) a skewed distribution with a single peak; (b) a bimodal distribution with an early peak at intervals of a few ms and a later peak at approximately the same interval as the distributions with single peaks; (c) cells with low firing rates and more or less rectangular distributions. Cells producing each type of ISI histogram exhibited decreases in firing after EC lesions. However, the 4 neurons that exhibited increases in firing had relatively low firing rates prior to the lesion. There were no significant changes in the coefficient of variation or skewness of the ISI histograms following the lesions. The statistical dependency of successive ISIs as revealed by serial correlograms was relatively low in the prelesion sample, and showed no consistent change following the lesion. Comparison of the average firing rates of different samples of neurons at 2-14 days postlesion revealed that the average activity of neurons in the granule cell layer remained depressed at 2 and 4 days postlesion. However, the activity recovered to a level comparable to the prelesion control by 8 days postlesion. The time course of recovery of unit activity was comparable to the time course of sprouting as revealed by previous electrophysiological studies.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Damage to the fimbria-fornix, and separately to the perforant path, leads to distinct and dramatic time-dependent increases in glial fibrillary acidic protein immunoreactivity (GFAP-IR) in specific areas of the hippocampal formation. Specifically, fimbria-fornix lesions resulted in an increase in the GFAP-IR in the pyramidal and oriens area of the CA3 as well as the inner molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. In addition, in the septum ipsilateral to the lesion, there was a rapid and robust increase in GFAP-IR in the dorsal lateral quadrant of the septum, but not in the medial region. Only after 30 days did the GFAP-IR reach the medial septum. Following perforant path lesions, there was a selective increase in GFAP-IR in the outer molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. Most of these changes were transient and had disappeared by 30 days postlesion. We speculate that the increase in GFAP-IR in these target areas is a necessary requirement for the sprouting responses that are observed. This hypothesis is supported by the fact that astrocytes secrete NGF in vitro and that NGF activity increases in these target areas following these same lesions. A mechanism for the selective activation of the astrocytes through the initial activation of microglia and secretion of interleukin-1 is postulated.
Basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) is a heparin-binding protein which has trophic effects on hippocampal neurons in vitro. It stimulates neurite extension when bound to surfaces coated with heparin, heparan sulfate, or hyaluronic acid, but not chondroitin sulfate or dermatan sulfate. Stimulation of neurite growth correlated strongly with the amount of [125I]bFGF bound by the different glycosoaminoglycans. Providing accessible stores of bFGF might be one function of glycosoaminoglycans during development.
Previous studies have shown that there are morphologically dissimilar serotonergic (5-HT) axon types in rat cerebral cortex which are differentially sensitive to the neurotoxic effects of certain psychotropic drugs: methylenedioxyamphetamines (MDA and MDMA) and p-chloroamphetamine (PCA) cause degeneration of fine 5-HT axon terminals in cortex, while sparing beaded axons. Moreover, a recent anterograde transport study suggests that fine and beaded 5-HT axons arise from the dorsal raphe (DR) and median raphe (MR) nuclei, respectively. These data led us to propose that the DR projection to neocortex is selectively vulnerable to the neurotoxic effects of PCA, while the MR projection is resistant; this hypothesis was tested in the present study by comparing retrograde axonal transport of the fluorescent tracer Fluoro-Gold in PCA-treated and control rats. Using this method, only axons that survive PCA treatment can take up and transport the injected label back to the cell bodies of origin, thus allowing us to determine which raphe-cortical projections remain intact after PCA. The results show that PCA administration produces a loss of fine 5-HT axon terminals in neocortex and a concomitant reduction in the number of retrogradely labeled neurons in the DR (77% decrease), when compared to controls. In contrast, beaded 5-HT axon terminals are spared and the number of labeled neurons in the MR remains unchanged after PCA. These results demonstrate that DR and MR projections to cortex are differentially vulnerable to PCA: fine axon terminals arise from neurons in the DR and are highly sensitive to the neurotoxic effects, whereas beaded axons from the MR are resistant. We therefore propose that there are two anatomically and functionally separate 5-HT projections to cortex having different (1) nuclei of origin, (2) axon morphology, (3) regional distributions, and (4) pharmacological properties. Since the mood-altering substances MDA, MDMA, and PCA act specifically upon 5-HT axon terminals from the dorsal raphe nucleus, DR neurons may be preferentially involved in the control of affective state.
The study of the motor cortex in behaving monkeys during the past 20 years has provided important information on the brain mechanisms underlying motor control. With respect to reaching movement in space, a key role of motor cortex in specifying the direction of reaching has been proposed on the basis of results from studies of the activity of cells and cell populations during reaching. These results and ideas are reviewed and discussed in the context of recent findings concerning the spinal mechanisms underlying reaching movements.



In depression, the identification of predictors of fast response is necessary to improve patient selection for ECT. In a double-blind, prospective study of 32 endogenously depressed patients treated with ECT, we attempted to identify the clinical characteristics of ECT responders which predicted fast (requiring  5 treatments to produce maximum recovery) and slow (requiring  6 treatments to produce maximum recovery) response to ECT. Of the 22 ECT responders in the study, 13 were fast and 9 were slow responders. We found that male sex, and greater age associated with lesser initial severity of depression were significantly associated with fast recovery. Surprisingly, factors suggested or expected to predict good outcome with ECT failed to predict fast outcome. Finally, the treatment variables of mean seizure duration and stimulus waveform were found to be unrelated to recovery rate. The findings are briefly discussed.
Twelve subjects with a diagnosis of Obsessive Compulsive Disorder who had not shown response to amitryptiline and imipramine/behaviour therapy underwent a cross over double blind trial with clomipramine and nortryptiline. Subjects who had earlier not shown response to the other drugs did not show response to clomipramine. The implications of these findings for clinical management are discussed.
Psychoanalytic medicine can incorporate information from the neurosciences to expand anatomic characterology through new knowledge of brain function. One focus of interest that is not currently targeted by research into specific pathological conditions is that of the highly intelligent, scientific person. This paper designates by the ambivalent popular term &quot;nerds&quot; persons whose brain development enables them to manipulate very abstract concepts such as those in math and physics. This ability, which may be in the direction of human brain evolution, contributes to personality development in a way that is not conflicted but leads to investments of mental abilities with intense interest. Personality traits may result that are misunderstood and unpopular despite the crucial need for such persons at this point in our society's history. Portrayals of the nerd type in films, neurological, mental, and social factors favoring the development of nerds, and biographical and case materials round out this description of the type, for which further refinements of our neuropsychiatric and psychoanalytic understanding may be sought.
The myelogenetic development of the corticospinal fibres in the internal capsule was studied using eight brains of the Yakovlev Collection and two brains of the collection in Hannover Medical School. The myelin sheaths of the corticospinal fibres stained by the Loyez method can best be seen in the third postnatal month. During their course through the internal capsule their relative position changes. In the superior portion of the internal capsule, at the level of the interventricular foramen, the pyramidal tract is located in the middle of the posterior limb and in the inferior portion, at the level of the subthalamic nucleus and metathalamus, in the posterior third of the posterior limb. The classical concept of the localisation of the pyramidal tract has, therefore, to be revised for the inferior portion of the internal capsule. The result of this study confirms those of stereotactic, neuropathological and macroscopic observations and underlines the importance of the Yakovlev Collection for the neurosciences.
The effects of immobilization and femoral artery and vein cannulation on resting rates of local cerebral glucose utilization (LCGU) were measured in 35 brain regions of awake rats by using the quantitative, autoradiographic [14C]2-deoxy-D-glucose [( 14C]DG) technique. Three groups of rats were cannulated on the previous day, and LCGU was measured under conditions of no restraint, 4 h of hindlimb restraint, or acute, four-limb immobilization. A fourth group represented the conventional preparation for [14C]DG experiments, with same-day cannulation followed immediately by 4 h of hindlimb restraint. Plasma catecholamines, corticosterone, and glucose concentrations were measured in all groups; all were elevated significantly above values in unrestrained animals only during four-limb immobilization. LCGU was unchanged by same-day surgery, hindlimb restraint, or both. During four-limb immobilization, LCGU was reduced by 25% in the dorsal hippocampus, and to a lesser extent in the anteroventral thalamic nucleus. It was increased only in the lateral habenula (42%). We conclude that two stressors of the experimental preparation (same-day surgery and hindlimb restraint) do not influence LCGU measurements by the [14C]DG method. More severe, acute stress selectively alters LCGU in a few rat brain regions.
Electrical stimulation and the recording of electrical potentials have made important contributions to the classic formulations of cerebellar function. These electrical methods also have contributed to a re-appraisal, now underway, of the cerebellar role in the human brain. Beyond its accepted role in motor function, the cerebellum seems to contribute to some nonmotor functions. It is now known to communicate with the prefrontal cortex as well as with the motor cortex of the frontal lobe, and it seems to be involved in some prefrontal cognitive and language functions as well as in motor function. Investigations of cerebellar involvement in such functions are now being carried out, with encouraging results. If confirmed by further clinical evidence, this broader concept of cerebellar function would explain the mystery of why the most lateral parts of the cerebellum enlarged dramatically in the human brain, concomitantly with the enlargement of the cerebral association areas.
The relationship between anxiety and depression may be more than the simultaneous expression of two commonly observed but distinct emotional states. Clinical studies suggest that anxiety is not only accompanied by symptoms of depression but may be an expected precursor syndrome in the development of at least some forms of depression. Recent genetic and epidemiological data further indicate that at least some forms of anxiety and depression may represent different phenotypic manifestations of the same genetic predisposition resulting from varying environmental conditions. Animal studies further suggest a causal relationship between anxiety and the development of a behavioral syndrome called &quot;learned helplessness,&quot; an animal model of depression produced by exposing the animal to inescapable stress. Many of the behavioral and physiological features of the syndrome resemble those observed in depressed patients. Recent findings show that the administration to rats of anxiogenic inverse agonists of the benzodiazepine-GABA receptor complex produces the same behavioral syndrome evoked by inescapable stress. Moreover, pretreating animals with benzodiazepine anxiolytics can completely prevent the development of learned helplessness after exposure to inescapable stress. Together, the data suggest a common neurobiological substrate for some forms of anxiety and depression.
Electrical excitability of the longitudinal ventrolateral body wall muscle of the third instar larva of Drosophila melanogaster was demonstrated. This is in contrast to previous papers which have reported that this muscle is electrically inexcitable. It was found that an air supply to the muscle through the tracheoles is essential for maintaining its excitability. In an aerated preparation, the muscle maintained a resting potential of around -80 mV for more than 1.5 h, while a non-aerated muscle depolarized to about -30 mV within 30 min. Muscles with resting potentials larger than -70 mV showed graded regenerative potentials with a double-peaked configuration in response to transmembrane depolarizing current. A tetrodotoxin- (TTX-)sensitive, voltage-dependent inward sodium current, and a tetraethylammonium- (TEA-)sensitive, voltage-dependent outward potassium current were found to be responsible for the first peak of the electrogenic response of this muscle. The rising phase of the second peak was caused by a cobalt/manganese-sensitive, voltage-dependent inward calcium current that had a threshold level near -40 mV. Elimination by TEA or barium of the delayed rectification following the first peak caused the second peak to be triggered at a lower threshold. The second peak was profoundly elongated by barium, and this effect was antagonized by external calcium. Thus, the falling phase of the second peak was most likely driven by a calcium-dependent, outward potassium current.
The effects of nerve growth factor (NGF) on the intracellular content of acetylcholine (ACh) in cultured septal neurons from developing rats have been examined. The content of ACh could be measured by using HPLC and electrochemical detection (HPLC-ECD), coupled with an immobilized enzyme column. This method of determination is very simple and rapid, and is highly sensitive. The content of ACh and the activity of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) in cultured postnatal day 1 (P1) septal neurons grown on an astroglial &quot;feeder&quot; layer was increased during the period of cultivation by the addition of NGF. The activities of ChAT and the content of ACh increased in a dose-dependent manner in direct relationship to the different amounts of NGF employed. These effects of NGF, i.e., elevating the intracellular content of ACh, accompanied by an increase in activity of ChAT, also were confirmed in the P1 septal organotypic cultures. Additionally, embryonic day 17 (E17) septal neurons in a serum-free medium displayed a similar responsiveness to NGF with respect to the elevation in the content of ACh and the increase in activity of ChAT. These results suggest that intracellular levels of ACh are likely to be regulated by NGF in a fashion similar to that of the activity levels of the biosynthetic enzyme.
The regional and cellular distribution of four synaptic vesicle-associated proteins, synapsins Ia and Ib (Mr 86,000 and 80,000, collectively referred to as synapsin I) and proteins IIIa and IIIb (Mr 74,000 and 55,000, collectively referred to as protein III), has been compared in selected rat brain regions, using both radioimmunoassays and back-phosphorylation assays. Lesions of several neuronal populations in the basal ganglia (corticostriatal fibers, intrinsic striatal neurons, striatonigral fibers, nigrostriatal fibers) induced decreases in the levels of these various proteins that were highly correlated (r = 0.96-0.97). Moreover, the synaptic vesicle-associated phosphoproteins displayed a similar and widespread distribution throughout the CNS. This evidence for colocalization indicates that the majority of, and possibly all, CNS neurons and nerve terminals may contain both forms of synapsin I and both forms of protein III.
To elucidate the source and physiological significance of plasma 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine, the immediate product of the rate-limiting step in catecholamine biosynthesis, plasma 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine was quantified in conscious rats after administration of reserpine, desipramine, clorgyline, or forskolin, treatments that affect tyrosine hydroxylase activity. Plasma 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine was also examined during infusions of norepinephrine with or without clorgyline, reserpine, or desipramine pretreatment. After reserpine, the plasma 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine level decreased by 22% and then increased by 40%, a result consistent with modulation of tyrosine hydroxylase activity first by an increased axoplasmic norepinephrine content and then by depletion of norepinephrine stores. After desipramine, the plasma 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine level decreased by 20%, reflecting the depressant effect of neuronal uptake blockade on norepinephrine turnover. Forskolin increased the plasma 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine level by 30%, consistent with activation of tyrosine hydroxylase by cyclic AMP-dependent phosphorylation. Acute administration of clorgyline was without effect on the plasma 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine level. Norepinephrine infusions decreased the plasma 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine concentration, as expected from end-product inhibition of tyrosine hydroxylase. Pretreatment with desipramine prevented the norepinephrine-induced decrease in plasma dihydroxyphenylalanine content, indicating that inhibition of tyrosine hydroxylase required neuronal uptake of norepinephrine. Both reserpine and clorgyline augmented the norepinephrine-induced decrease in plasma 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine level, suggesting that retention of norepinephrine in the axoplasm--due to inhibition of norepinephrine sequestration into storage vesicles or catabolism--caused further inhibition of tyrosine hydroxylase. Changes in plasma 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine concentration during norepinephrine infusions were negatively correlated with those in plasma 3,4-dihydroxyphenylglycol level, a finding consistent with modulation of tyrosine hydroxylase activity by axoplasmic norepinephrine. In reserpinized animals, clorgyline and norepinephrine infusion together decreased the plasma 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine content by 50%, a result demonstrating that hydroxylation of tyrosine was depressed by at least half. The results indicate that quantification of plasma 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine can provide a simple and direct approach for examination of the rate-limiting step in catecholamine biosynthesis.
Binding of the benzodiazepine inverse agonist [3H]methyl-6,7-dimethoxy-4-ethyl-beta-carboline-3-carboxylate [( 3H]DMCM) and the agonist [3H]flunitrazepam [( 3H]FNZ) was compared in rat cortical membranes. Halide ions enhanced [3H]DMCM binding three- to fourfold, increasing both the apparent affinity and the number of binding sites for this radioligand. The effect was present at both 0 and 37 degrees C. In contrast, the magnitude of halide stimulation of [3H]FNZ binding was much smaller, resulting solely from an increase in the apparent affinity for this radioligand, and was not observed at 37 degrees C. The potencies but not the efficacies of a series of anions to stimulate both [3H]DMCM and [3H]FNZ binding to benzodiazepine receptors were highly correlated with their relative permeabilities through gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-gated chloride channels. Two stress paradigms (10 min of immobilization or ambient-temperature swim stress), previously shown to increase significantly the magnitude of halide-stimulated [3H]FNZ binding, did not significantly affect [3H]DMCM binding. Phospholipase A2 treatment of cortical membrane preparations was equipotent in preventing the stimulatory effect of chloride on both [3H]DMCM and [3H]FNZ binding. These data strongly suggest that anions modify the binding of [3H]DMCM and [3H]FNZ by acting at a common anion binding site that is an integral component of the GABA/benzodiazepine receptor chloride channel complex.
Gliotoxin is a fungal metabolite belonging to the class of epipolythiodioxopiperazines which possesses both immunomodulating and anti-phagocytic activities. We have examined the effect of gliotoxin on passively induced allergic encephalomyelitis and report here that pulse treating activated experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) effector lymphocytes with gliotoxin inhibits, in a dose-dependent manner, their ability to transfer disease. Cells treated with 300 ng/ml are unable to replicate in vitro in response to concanavalin A stimulation, nor did they produce interleukin-2 (IL-2) following stimulation. Furthermore this concentration of gliotoxin also causes complete fragmentation of genomic DNA in treated cells, yet these cells are still capable of transferring clinical EAE. These data suggest that replication of donor lymphocytes in the recipient is not essential for the development of EAE.

Neuropeptide Y (NPY), the most abundant peptide in mammalian CNS, has been shown to inhibit excitatory neurotransmission presynaptically at the stratum radiatum-CA1 synapse in the in vitro rat hippocampal slice. We examined the site and mechanism of this inhibition in a series of in vitro intra- and extracellular recordings in areas CA1 and CA3, the source of much of the excitatory synaptic input to the CA1 neurons. NPY's inhibitory action at the stratum radiatum-CA1 synapse was unaffected by high concentrations of the antagonists bicuculline, theophylline, or atropine, suggesting that it does not act by stimulating the release of the known presynaptic inhibitory transmitters GABA, adenosine, or ACh, respectively. Bath application of 10(-6) NPY, a concentration that strongly inhibited the stratum radiatum-CA1 synapse had no effect on CA3 neuron resting potential, input resistance or action potential amplitude, threshold, or duration. NPY also does not alter the amplitude or duration of the prolonged CA3 action potentials evoked in the presence of TTX, tetraethyl-ammonium, and elevated external Ca2+ or those evoked in the presence of TTX and Ba2+ ions. NPY therefore does not alter the passive or active properties of the somata of the presynaptic CA3 neurons. Neither the afferent fiber volley of the Schaffer collaterals in stratum radiatum of area CA1 nor the excitability of the CA3 terminals in CA1 was affected by NPY application. However, application of the transient K+ current blocker, 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) at concentrations of 10 and 50 microM, completely abolished the action of 10(-6) M NPY on the stratum radiatum-CA1 excitatory synaptic potentials. This action of 4-AP could be reversed by reducing extracellular Ca2+ concentrations from a control level of 1.5 to 0.7 mM (in 10 microM 4-AP) and to 0.5 mM (in 50 microM 4-AP). The evidence suggests that NPY inhibits excitatory synaptic transmission at the Schaffer collateral-CA1 synapse by acting directly at the terminal to reduce a Ca2+ influx.
I describe here the successful visualization of interhemispheric callosal connections in the live mammalian cortex. The development of this method was prompted by the finding that fluorescent tracer labeling of groups of cortical neurons, when done under optimal conditions, is sufficiently intense to be visible even in the whole brain preparation. The new approach could provide a useful tool for enhanced precision in localizing cortical modules in vivo. In a typical experiment, rats had their left cortical hemisphere extensively injected with the fluorescent tract-tracer bisBenzimide (BB). After appropriate survival, the right cortical hemisphere was illuminated with UV light and the fluorescing callosal pattern could be discerned under the network of blood vessels even with the unaided eye. The pattern, although diffuse, was grossly similar to the pattern of callosal connections as seen in flattened, sectioned cortex. Features that could be discerned were: the main callosal band straddling the lateral border of area 17, several rings and bands in extrastriate areas 18a and 18b, and a major band straddling the lateral border of area 3. The vitally visualized callosal pattern was used to guide injections of either wheat germ agglutinin conjugated to HRP (WGA-HRP) or rhodamine-labeled microspheres (RLM) into precisely localized sites in occipital cortex. There were numerous instances of doubly labeled neurons stained both with BB and WGA-HRP or RLM, suggesting that uptake of BB combined with UV exposure did not hinder the ability of stained neurons to take up and transport a second tracer. It is suggested that vital tract tracing be used as a tool for enhanced precision in studies of cortical connectivity.
This article discusses concerns related to neuroscience nursing practice in the wake of the AIDS epidemic. Safety issues in the workplace and recommendations for creating a safe environment according to Centers for Disease Control (CDC) guidelines are delineated. Legal considerations from the patient's and nurse's perspectives are also addressed.
In order to formulate accurate nursing diagnoses, neuroscience nurses must determine clinical validity of defining characteristics. Physiologic, psychologic, behavioral or social signs and symptoms may be studied. This article suggests methods to be used in validating defining characteristics including practical and research design considerations.
Progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) is an uncommon, but debilitating, neurological disease. Characterized by paralysis of eye movements, difficulty talking and swallowing, body trunk rigidity, gait ataxia, and dementia, the disease progresses rapidly over a 6-8 year time span. Death usually occurs from aspiration pneumonia. To provide meaningful care for the PSP patient and his/her family, the neuroscience nurse must first understand the disease pathophysiology, then the appropriate care interventions.
Since headache is one of the most common symptoms experienced in the general population, the neuroscience nurse should understand the phenomenon of migraine. We define the various types of migraine and present a strategy, based upon precipitators, inhibitors and a &quot;migraine threshold&quot; to facilitate patient education.
The American Board of Neuroscience Nursing conducted a role delineation and validation study to determine practice areas to be tested. In addition, weighting for each area to be included in the certification examination was determined. This article describes steps taken in the validation process and discusses findings along with application of results to certification examination revision.
The expression of myelin basic protein by the oligodendrocyte is an integral event in the maturation of central nervous system function. Although much is known concerning the various myelin basic protein species, their temporal expression, and processing of RNA transcripts, little is known about the epigenetic factors responsible for the regulation of myelin basic protein (MBP) expression. In this study, we present evidence that insulin/insulin-like growth factor-I can increase the levels of MBP protein in isolated oligodendrocyte progenitor cells cultured in a serumless, chemically defined medium (ODM). Insulin was found to increase MBP protein in a dose-responsive manner, reaching a maximal level at 72 hr of exposure. Both insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) and insulin were demonstrated to have no effect on MBP RNA levels. These data indicate that insulin/IGF-I increased MBP protein levels at a level distal to transcription The dose response of insulin action suggests that it may have a MBP regulatory function, distinct from IGF-I. When added individually, the other supplements of ODM, transferrin (500 ng/ml), and basic fibroblast growth factor (5 ng/ml) had no effect on MBP expression. However, when all three components were combined, a synergistic effect resulting in increased MBP protein and total RNA levels was found. The phorbol ester 12-O-tetradecanoyl phorbol acetate was found to reduce intracellular MBP RNA levels. The cAMP analogue/dibutyryl cAMP had contrasting effects on MBP RNA levels; no effect occurred in cultures grown in fetal calf serum, but a reduction in RNA levels was found in cultures grown in ODM. These data suggest that only a select range of extrinsic factors may be involved in MBP regulation, and depending on the environmental milieu, epigenetic agents may modulate gene activity differently.
1. Nicotinic fast excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fast EPSPs) were recorded intracellularly from postganglionic neurones in the isolated rat superior cervical ganglion. 2. An hours-long potentiation of the fast EPSP could be induced by brief tetanic stimulation of the preganglionic nerve (5 Hz for 5 s to 20 Hz for 20 s). While long-term potentiation (LTP) can be detected in every ganglion by extracellular techniques, LTP was induced in only two-thirds of the nicotinic synaptic responses. 3. Muscarinic blockade with atropine did not prevent LTP of the fast EPSP. 4. LTP of the fast EPSP did not correlate with changes in input resistance nor cell potential, as recorded in the soma. 5. The formation of nicotinic LTP appeared to depend upon stimulation of the nerve terminals. Non-synaptic tetanic depolarization of the postganglionic neurone, effected by injecting depolarizing current pulses through the intracellular microelectrode, was not sufficient. LTP could be induced by synaptic tetani in two-thirds of the same neurones. 6. The response to exogenous 1,1-dimethyl-4-phenylpiperazinium (DMPP), a selective nicotinic agonist, was not increased during nicotinic synaptic LTP. This was true whether DMPP was applied by pressure-ejection from an extracellular micropipette during intracellular recording, or by brief superfusion during sucrose-gap recording of postganglionic responses. 7. Responses to exogenous acetylcholine and carbachol were increased during nicotinic LTP when these non-selective cholinergic agonists were applied by pressure-ejection during intracellular recording. However, the potentiation of the fast EPSP was always at least twofold greater than the potentiation of the response to these exogenous agonists. 8. Potentiation of the responses to acetylcholine and carbachol may have been due to long-term enhancement of muscarinic responses. Thus, no postsynaptic basis for nicotinic LTP was uncovered in these studies.
A wide variety of speech processing strategies for multichannel auditory prostheses were compared in studies of two patients implanted with the UCSF electrode array. Each strategy was evaluated using tests of vowel and consonant confusions, with and without lipreading. Included among the strategies were the compressed analog processor of the present UCSF/Storz prosthesis and a group of interleaved pulses processors in which the amplitudes of nonsimultaneous pulses code the spectral variations of speech. For these patients, each with indications of poor nerve survival, test scores were significantly higher with the interleaved pulses processors. We believe this superior performance was a result of 1. the substantial release from channel interactions provided by nonsimultaneous stimuli and 2. a fast enough rotation among the channels to support adequate temporal and spectral resolution of perceived speech sounds.
There are now many examples of the successful expression of genes transduced by retroviruses in studies from outside the field of neuroscience. Retroviruses will undoubtedly also prove to be effective tools for neuro-scientists interested in expressing cloned neurotransmitter and receptor genes. There are also other less obvious applications of retroviruses, such as their insertional mutagenic effects, which may be useful in studies of the genetic factors and biochemical mechanisms involved in, for example, neurotoxicity. Strong cellular promoters have been identified by retroviral infection and subsequent rescue of the flanking genomic DNA. Retroviruses can be employed again to reintroduce these regulatory sequences back into cells. In this way the complexities of gene expression in the many subpopulations of neurons may be unraveled. Retroviruses can also serve as very useful genetic markers in studies of development and lineage relationships. Retroviruses may be used to efficiently transfer oncogenes into neuronal cells to create new cell lines. This application exploits one of the natural traits of retroviruses--oncogenesis--which led to their original discovery. Finally, there are neurotropic retroviruses that could serve as important vectors for delivering genes into neurons. Studying these retroviruses may lead to an understanding of how they cause neuropathologic changes in the CNS.
We have devised a method for the parallel determination of choline acetyltransferase (CAT) and muscarinic cholinergic receptor (mCh-R) in the same brain tissue. The method for CAT activity determination is more rapid, simplified, stable, and economical than the usual Fonnum's method. With our method, age-associated changes in CAT activity and mCh-R levels were examined. Although CAT activity hardly changed with age except in a few areas, mCh-R binding of aged-rats was markedly reduced in all areas. These results suggest that the change in mCh-R represents an age-associated biochemical change in the brain and that determination of CAT activity is not sufficient for the study of age-associated changes in the brain cholinergic system.
The effects of subacute treatment with lithium on the stimulation-induced release of serotonin (5-HT) and the function of 5-HT autoreceptors in the hippocampus and frontal cortex of the rat were studied. In the rats treated with lithium for 3 days, the high K+-evoked release of endogenous 5-HT from the slices of hippocampus, but not the slices of frontal cortex, was significantly increased. High K+-induced release of [3H]5-HT from the slices of hippocampus of control rats preloaded with [3H]5-HT was decreased when the slices were exposed to 5-HT, while it was increased when they were exposed to methiothepin. In the slices of hippocampus from the lithium-treated rats, this inhibitory effect of 5-HT on the release of [3H]5-HT, evoked by either high K+ or electrical stimulation was significantly attenuated. On the other hand, it was not modified in the slices of frontal cortex. The results suggest that lithium may inhibit the function of 5-HT autoreceptors to regulate the release of 5-HT. This action may, in part, trigger the development of the down-regulation of 5-HT1 receptors occurring in the hippocampus but not in the frontal cortex after chronic treatment with lithium.
Speech, language and voice disorders associated with Tourette Disorder (TD) are reviewed. Two cases of TD associated with falsetto are presented. The relationship between abnormalities in vocal pitch and tic symptomatology is explored.
In North Dakota children, the prevalence rate for DSM-III schizophrenia is 0.19 per 10,000 for both sexes; for males 0.35 per 10,000 and 0 per 10,000 for females. In this report we utilize case studies to convey the symptomatic courses of the 2 child patients with DSM-III-R defined schizophrenia. Both patients first developed Tourette Disorder (TD) and later developed schizophrenia by DSM-III and by DSM-III-R criteria. Among North Dakota children with TD the prevalence rate of schizophrenia is 8.7% for boys. The ramifications of concordance for the two disorders are explored.
The current status of the use of lithium in the treatment of tic disorders is reviewed. Areas of pathophysiologic overlap between bipolar and tic symptomatology are explored from the standpoint of shared etiology versus co-morbidity. Data from ten cases of children and adolescents with tic disorders treated with lithium are presented. Five exhibited a positive response to tic and associated symptoms, while five did not. Treatment responders versus nonresponders were compared along a number of parameters including co-morbidity with other syndromes, family history, prior medication history, medication used concurrently with lithium, and medication used subsequent to treatment with lithium. Differences between the two groups are explored.
The authors discuss the current uncertainty regarding etiology, treatment, and classification of developmental language disorders (DLD). Referring to previous reports in the literature, they propose a specific subclass of DLD associated with a hypothesized dysfunction of the dopaminergic system of the basal ganglia. Mechanisms of dysfunction and treatment implications are discussed.
Tourette Syndrome (TS) is a neuropsychiatric movement disorder characterized by the presence of multiple motor and phonic tics. Monoamine neurotransmitter dysfunction has been implicated in the expression of the condition. Standard as well as novel pharmacologic treatments for TS as a sole entity or as a condition co-morbid with attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and/or obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) target these presumed neurotransmitter abnormalities. Choice of a specific medication is also predicated upon an individual patient's symptom profile, a cost-benefit analysis of desired effects versus side effects, and the impact on co-morbid conditions. Maximum involvement of the patient and parent or significant other is encouraged. It is emphasized that pharmacologic treatment is primarily symptomatic, usually not affecting the longer term outcome of specific syndromes per se. The integration of pharmacologic with psychoeducational interventions is encouraged.
The autoradiographical localization of dopamine D1, D2 and cholecystokinin receptors has been investigated in rat brain 6 months following unilateral infusion of 1-methyl-4-phenyl pyridinium ion (MPP+) (10 micrograms/day for 7 days) into the nigrostriatal dopamine pathway. Treatment with 1-methyl-4-phenyl pyridinium ion produced a marked depletion of dopamine cell bodies in the substantia nigra together with greater than 95% loss of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity in the striatum. Measurement of specific [3H]spiperone binding to D2 receptors indicated a 38% increase (P less than 0.01) in the maximal binding capacity of [3H]spiperone to striatal membrane homogenates and a 13% increase (P less than 0.05) in specific [3H]spiperone binding to striatal tissue sections, verifying striatal D2 receptor denervation supersensitivity. In contrast, MPP+ lesion of the nigrostriatal tract had no effect on the autoradiographical localization of striatal D1 or cholecystokinin receptors. In addition, there was a 38% loss (P less than 0.05) of D2 receptor binding sites in the substantia nigra pars compacta, whilst D1 receptors remained unchanged. Similar changes in dopamine and cholecystokinin receptor number were found following 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of the nigrostriatal dopamine pathway. These results provide further evidence that 1-methyl-4-phenyl pyridinium ion treatment in rats produces extensive destruction of the dopaminergic nigrostriatal tract and supports the differential anatomical localization of striatal and nigral D1, D2 and cholecystokinin receptors.
1-Methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP+), the active metabolite of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine, has been chronically infused (10 micrograms/24 h for 7 days) via osmotic minipumps into the left median forebrain bundle of the rat in order to determine whether it can induce permanent damage to the nigrostriatal dopamine system. Its effects were assessed over a period of 6 months post lesion. Four to 5 days following minipump implantation, all MPP+-treated animals displayed spontaneous ipsilateral postural bias indicating a marked imbalance in striatal dopamine and degeneration of the ipsilateral nigrostriatal dopamine pathway. After 3-5 weeks, MPP+-infused animals showed dose-related ipsilateral and contralateral circling in response to methamphetamine (1-5 mg/kg i.p.) and apomorphine (0.05-0.25 mg/kg s.c.) respectively. In vivo, using bilateral monitoring of striatal dopamine in MPP+-infused animals at 2 and 4 months by push-pull perfusion, both basal and methamphetamine- (2.5 mg/kg i.p.) stimulated release of dopamine was undetectable in the ipsilateral striatum, indicating a complete loss of dopamine terminals. In contrast, in the contralateral striatum of these animals and in striata of saline-infused animals, there were 4-5-fold increases in dopamine release in response to methamphetamine. Six months after lesion, animals infused with MPP+ continue to exhibit robust rotational behaviour in response to methamphetamine and apomorphine. In the ipsilateral striatum of the MPP+-infused animals the tissue concentrations of dopamine and its metabolites, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and homovanillic acid, were all undetectable; however, the levels of noradrenaline, serotonin and its metabolite, 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid, were not significantly different from control values. In contrast to the striatum, MPP+ had no significant effect on the levels of dopamine and its metabolites in the ipsilateral nucleus accumbens; in addition, the levels of noradrenaline and serotonin and its metabolite were comparable to control levels. Histological examination revealed a marked loss of cells and severe gliosis in the substantia nigra pars compacta of MPP+-infused animals. The present results provide evidence that direct infusion of MPP+ into the medial forebrain bundle of the rat can lead to a complete loss of dopamine neurons in the pars compacta of the substantia nigra with ensuing behavioural, neurochemical and biochemical changes characteristic of the lesion.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Peripheral receptive fields of climbing fiber responses from the anterior lobe of the cat display large intersections and distinct organizations. Receptive fields of the extremities and face have boundaries that follow the lines of a grid. Receptive fields of the tail and ventral trunk and some of the receptive fields on the extremities form concentric sets, which can be completely ordered by inclusion. Receptive fields along the spine form a chain, which indicates rostrocaudal position. Such regularities among the intersections, especially in the grid organization, allow the receptive fields to encode combinations and alternative combinations of skin locations as a pianist might distinguish chords rather than notes.
A eukaryotic, transient expression system was used to produce recombinant neuroleukin, a growth factor for neurons. Neuroleukin in media conditioned by transfected monkey COS-1 cells was purified to homogeneity in one step by high-performance cation-exchange chromatography. Purified neuroleukin was used to establish a quantitative two-site enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and the accuracy of the assay was confirmed by analytical high-performance liquid chromatography. The amount of recombinant neuroleukin secreted by the transfected COS-1 cells and the content of endogenous neuroleukin in various murine cell lines was determined. Neuroleukin levels were nearly undetectable in Balb/3T3 embryo cells, intermediate in several leukocytic cell lines and highest in mouse LBRM-33 T lymphoma cells. Maximal survival of sensory neurons was obtained with approximately 10(-9) M recombinant neuroleukin although tissue derived neuroleukin appeared to be significantly more active. Dialysis of the transfected COS-1 cell conditioned medium resulted in increased neuroleukin bioactivity, while binding to the cation-exchange column reduced bioactivity. The expression and purification of the recombinant protein and the detection of natural sources expressing high levels of neuroleukin will greatly facilitate studies of its biological effects.
Egg-laying hormone and alpha-bag cell peptide are two neuropeptides derived from a common precursor protein in the marine mollusk Aplysia. Previous studies indicate that they are neurotransmitters that co-exist in individual bag cell neurons and most bag cell processes in the abdominal ganglion. In the present investigation we used double-label immunocytochemistry with highly specific antisera to describe their distribution elsewhere in the CNS. We found that a small cluster of cells and their fibers in the pleural ganglion that were previously described as being immunoreactive for egg-laying hormone were also immunoreactive for alpha-bag cell peptide(1-9). A previously described group of small cell bodies in the cerebral ganglion also stained for both peptides. However, the fiber arborizations located near them were immunoreactive for alpha-bag cell peptide(1-9), but not egg-laying hormone. This suggests that there is alternative processing of the precursor protein or differential transport of the peptides from the cell bodies. The specificities of the antibodies indicate that all of the neurons that stain for egg-laying hormone-like peptides in the CNS synthesize peptides derived from the egg-laying hormone/bag cell peptide precursor, rather than peptides derived from other members of the egg-laying hormone gene family. They also suggest that peptides derived from the related A or B precursor proteins are not synthesized in the CNS, or at levels too low to detect. The results are consistent with the proposal that the behavior associated with egg-laying is initiated and controlled by peptide transmitters derived from a single gene and expressed in specific neurons of the CNS.
Different antisera to the molluscan cardioexcitatory peptide FMRFamide, and its fragment, RFamide (Arg-Phe-NH2), label a distinct population of neurons in the optic lobe of the blowfly, Calliphora erythrocephala. Seven morphological types of RFamide/FMRFamide-like immunoreactive neurons could be distinguished in the optic lobes based on the locations of their cell bodies, their axonal projections and the distribution of their processes. Of these, two types could be resolved in their entire extent, the others were labeled only in their cell bodies and terminal processes or were partly obscured by other immunoreactive processes. The RF-like immunoreactive neurons in the optic lobes are of two main classes: (1) two types of large field projection neurons and (2) five types of local neurons. One type of projection neurons (five in each lobe) connects the entire projected retinal mosaic of the medulla and lobula in the optic lobe with protocerebral centres associated with the mushroom body calyx. The other type (2-3 invading each lobe) has cell bodies in the protocerebrum and contralateral processes invading optic lobes. Of the class of local neurons there are two amacrine RF-like immunoreactive neurons in each medulla. Each of these amacrines supplies the entire mosaic with fine processes. The remaining local RF-like immunoreactive neurons are present in relatively large numbers (one type in more than 2000 copies in each medulla) and-supply the medulla, lobula and lobula plate neuropils with fine varicose processes. In the medulla the RF-like immunoreactive processes are arranged in strict layers whereas in the lobula complex the distribution is diffuse. Electron microscopic immunocytochemistry, using both pre-embedding immuno peroxidase-antiperoxidase and post-embedding protein A-gold labeling, was employed for analysis of cytology and synaptic connections of RF-like immunoreactive neurons in the medulla. The varicosities of the processes of the large field projection neurons were not found to make chemical synapses with other neurons in the medulla. The spines of the RF-like immunoreactive processes of the large medulla amacrines, however, make pre- and postsynaptic contacts with other neural elements. Our findings indicate that an RFamide/FMRFamide-like substance may be used as a neurotransmitter or neuromodulator by optic lobe neurons of different types. The local and projection RF-like immunoreactive pathways probably play different roles in visual processing.
Using the avidin-biotin immunoperoxidase technique and a diaminobenzidine intensification of the Prussian Blue method, we have compared the distribution of transferrin to that of ferric iron in five normal autopsy brains from adult human males. The observed distribution of transferrin was considerably more widespread than: (1) that of histochemically demonstrable ferric iron; (2) that reported for transferrin in the fetal and neonatal human brain; and (3) that reported for transferrin in other species. Transferrin immunoreactivity was present in neurons, oligodendrocytes, astrocytes, ependymal cells, and choroid plexus epithelial cells, although not in all cells of any type. Ferric iron, on the other hand, was demonstrable only in oligodendrocytes, in myelin sheaths, and possibly in axons. While staining for both transferrin and iron was relatively high in the basal ganglia and substantia nigra, the pattern of staining differed, with striatal efferent fibers staining more heavily than the neuropil for iron and less heavily than the neuropil for transferrin. The choroid plexus, which in the rat has been shown to synthesize transferrin, stained heavily for transferrin and not at all for iron. The findings of low iron and high transferrin in the choroid plexus suggest that the plexus may secrete transferrin into the cerebrospinal fluid, thereby facilitating the translocation of iron within the neuraxis. Furthermore, the nonidentical distribution of ferric iron and transferrin suggests that, in the human brain, transferrin may serve other functions besides the transport of iron from extracellular fluid to cytoplasm.
Evidence from the oscillatory behavior of fish fins and the crayfish swimmeret system suggests that local rhythmic-pattern generators preserve their characteristic properties over the various locomotory co-ordinations in which they participate. This maintenance tendency, as von Holst termed it, was investigated in an experiment in which human subjects swung, through motions at the wrists, hand-held pendulums of variable mass and length. In the experiment (comprising six sessions over 21 months with the same three subjects) the context for the maintenance tendency was steady-state absolute co-ordination: two rhythmic units oscillating at a single, common period and at a bounded phase relation. The experimental methodology permitted systematic control of (a) the characteristic periods of the individual rhythmic units and (b) the deviations from these periods. Relative fluctuations in periodic timing and amplitude were least when a rhythmic unit's period in absolute co-ordination approximated its characteristic period and increased with departures from the characteristic period. Rates of increase in timing fluctuations were approximately the same for deviations on either side of the characteristic period; the rate of increase in spacing fluctuations was substantially greater for the range in which periods were less than the characteristic period. The phase relation between two co-ordinated rhythmic movement units in absolute co-ordination depended on the difference between their characteristic periods. The intended phase relation of 180 degrees was attained only when the characteristic periods were identical. When the characteristic periods differed, the departure from 180 degrees increased systematically with the difference. The fluctuation results are discussed in terms of the relation between relaxation and harmonic dynamics in producing rhythmic movements, with particular emphasis on the harmonic tuning of relaxation oscillations. The phase results are discussed in terms of whether or not the very many stable phase relations in absolute co-ordination are reflective of the nervous system or of differences in response latencies in left and right muscle systems induced by different degrees of inertial compensation.
The development and distribution of methionine-enkephalin-immunoreactive elements were studied in the chicken spinal cord with the indirect immunofluorescence method. Methionine-enkephalin-like immunoreactivity was first detected in the chick spinal cord at embryonic stages 29-30 (incubation day 6). Before stage 35 (day 9), it was mainly observed in fibres almost throughout the white matter. Subsequently, fibres containing the peptide appeared in the ventral half of the gray matter, but mostly in the lateral portion of the neck of the dorsal horn. From stage 40 (day 13 or 14), fibres were especially noticed in laminae 1 and 2, and in the area dorsal to the central canal. In particular, many enkephalin-immunoreactive perikarya were observed in several spinal areas during this period. Such a distribution of both enkephalin-immunoreactive fibres and perikarya remained visible at later embryonic stages, but labelled cells gradually decreased in number and disappeared after hatching. With colchicine treatment, however, a similar distribution of the peptide was found in the spinal cord of adult chickens. As in the embryo, enkephalin-immunoreactive perikarya were mainly observed in the lateral portion of the neck of the dorsal horn, in lamina 1, and in the nucleus of the dorsolateral funiculus throughout the spinal cord. At the thoracic level, many were also located ventral to the central canal. Enkephalin-immunoreactive fibres increased notably in the gray matter of adult chickens. They mainly occurred in laminae 1 and 2, in the lateral portion of the neck of the dorsal horn, and in the area around, especially dorsal to, the central canal. In contrast, enkephalin-immunoreactive fibres decreased in the white matter and they were mainly observed in the dorsolateral funiculus, in Lissauer's tract, and in the lateral funiculus adjacent to the gray. The distribution of enkephalin-immunoreactive fibres was generally comparable at all spinal levels examined. In addition, examination of post-hatched chickens showed virtually the same results as in the adult.
The electrophysiological properties of 87 neurons in the deep dorsal horn (laminae III-VI) of the rat spinal cord have been investigated in vitro. Two preparations have been used; the transverse spinal cord slice preparation from the third or fourth lumbar segments of 14-16-day-old rats (71 cells) and a hemisected lumbar spinal cord preparation from 10-12-day-old rats (16 cells). The input impedances (range 11-128 M omega), membrane potentials (-67 +/- 8 mV S.D.), action potential amplitude (77 +/- 11.8 mV) duration (1.4 +/- 0.5 ms) and afterpotentials, were effectively identical in the neurons recorded from the two preparations. Neurons in both preparations when activated with long-duration (1-2 s) outward current pulses showed a single steady-state firing range with little adaptation of firing frequency or action potential amplitude. This pattern of responses was unaffected by changing the membrane potential. Orthodromic synaptic activity could be elicited in the neurons by stimulating either the small dorsal root remnants in the slice or the dorsal roots in the hemisected spinal cord. The responses evoked by single stimuli of increasing intensity varied in different neurons in both preparations. The commonest response (32/62) consisted of a short-latency, short-duration composite excitatory postsynaptic potential which generated one or two spikes with no further spiking activity at longer latency when the stimulus intensity was increased beyond threshold. In 20 neurons, graded stimulation produced a graded response with recruitment, at high intensities, of a discharge of action potentials lasting several hundred milliseconds. A small number of cells (4) responded to the single stimulus with a train of action potentials lasting several seconds. Stimulating adjacent dorsal roots in the hemisected cord preparation could evoke quite different responses from the neurons. The heterogeneity of the types of orthodromic responses obtained in both preparations, in spite of the almost uniform intrinsic membrane properties, is likely to reflect differences in the strength, location and type of afferent and interneuronal input to different dorsal horn cells.
The distribution of axons according to diameter has been examined in the optic nerve of old world monkeys. Axon diameters were measured from electron micrographs, and histograms were constructed at regular intervals across a section through the optic nerve to reveal the local axon diameter distribution. The total axon diameter distribution was also estimated. Fine-calibre optic axons (less than 2.0 micron in diameter) are found at all locations across the optic nerve. They are most frequent centrotemporally, where very few coarse optic axons can be found, but also make up the majority at the optic nerve's periphery. Coarse optic axons (greater than 2.0 microns in diameter) are increasingly common at progressively peripheral positions in the nerve. Around the nerve's circumference, these coarse optic axons are least numerous temporally, and most common dorsonasally. The axon diameter distribution peaks around 1.25 microns at most locations across the optic nerve, but there are more, slightly larger (1.5-2.0 microns), optic axons dorsally than ventrally. The estimated total axon diameter distribution is unimodal, peaking at 1.0-1.25 microns, with an extended tail towards larger diameters. This centroperipheral gradient of increasing axon diameters across the optic nerve is not substantial enough to account for the partial segregation of axons by size in the monkey's optic tract: there, coarse optic axons form a conspicuously greater proportion of the local axon diameter distribution along the tract's superficial (sub-pial) border, and fine optic axons are the only axons present near the tract's deep border. Hence, the fibre distribution in the optic tract cannot be formed by a simple combination of the fibre distributions of the two respective half-nerves, as described in the classic neuro-ophthalmologic literature. Rather, the present results, in conjunction with previous results from the optic tract, demonstrate that there must be a reorganization of axons by size in or near the optic chiasm.
Ganglion cells were fluorescently labeled, dissociated from 7- to 11-day-old rodent retinas, and placed in tissue culture. Whole-cell recordings with patch electrodes were obtained from solitary cells lacking processes, which permitted a high-quality space clamp. Both GABA (1-200 microM) and glycine (10-300 microM) produced large increases in membrane conductance in virtually every ganglion cell tested, including ganglion cells from different size classes in both rats and mice. Taurine evoked responses similar to those of glycine, but considerably greater concentrations of taurine (150-300 microM) were necessary to observe any effect. Since 20 microM GABA produced approximately the same response as 100 microM glycine, the effects of these two concentrations were compared under various conditions. When recording with chloride distributed equally across the membrane, the reversal potential of the agonist-induced currents was approximately 0 mV. When the internal chloride was reduced by substitution with aspartate, the reversal potential shifted in a negative direction by about 42 mV, indicating that the current was carried mainly by chloride ions. Strychnine (1-5 microM) completely and reversibly blocked the actions of glycine (100 microM) but not those of GABA (20 microM); however, higher concentrations of strychnine (20 microM) nearly totally inhibited the current elicited by GABA (20 microM). The responses to glycine (100 microM) were not affected by bicuculline methiodide (20 microM) or picrotoxinin (20 microM). In contrast, bicuculline methiodide (10 microM) and picrotoxinin (10 microM) reversibly blocked the current evoked by GABA (20 microM); d-tubocurarine (100 microM) only slightly decreased the response to GABA (20 microM). The antagonists were effective over a wide range of holding potentials (-90 mV to +30 mV). The responses to a steady application of both GABA and glycine decayed in a few seconds when recorded under conditions of both symmetric and asymmetric chloride across the membrane. During this decay the current and conductance decreased simultaneously, reflecting receptor desensitization rather than a change in the driving force for chloride caused by agonist-induced ionic fluxes. The time-course of desensitization was usually described by a single exponential with time constants for GABA (20 microM) and glycine (100 microM) of 4.0 +/- 1.6 s and 4.4 +/- 1.9 s (mean +/- S.D.), respectively.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The periaqueductal gray of 5 rats was processed for immunocytochemistry using an antiserum to glutamate decarboxylase. In both colchicine-pretreated (4 rats) and untreated (1 rat) animals, glutamate decarboxylase-positive cell bodies were present in all periaqueductal gray subdivisions, especially in the dorsal and ventrolateral subdivision. The perikaryal cross-sectional area of labelled neurons was smaller than that of periaqueductal gray projecting neurons retrogradely labelled with horseradish peroxidase in separate experiments. The morphology of glutamate decarboxylase-containing neurons resembled that of small polygonal, triangular and fusiform cells described in previous Golgi studies. Glutamate decarboxylase immunoreactivity was also observed in a large number of terminal-like structures, most of which were distributed close to the somata and dendrites of both glutamate decarboxylate-positive and -negative neurons. At all rostrocaudal levels the highest concentration of these elements was observed around the aqueduct. These results suggest that two sub-populations of neurons are present in the periaqueductal gray of rats, one consisting of small-sized glutamate decarboxylase-positive neurons (intrinsic neurons) and the other of large-sized glutamate decarboxylase-negative neurons (projecting neurons). Intrinsic circuits could be present between glutamate decarboxylase-positive and -negative neurons and between glutamate decarboxylase-positive neurons.
Ejaculation by male rats caused an abrupt and marked increase in the concentration of GABA in the cerebrospinal fluid and an equally abrupt and marked inhibition of sexual behaviour in female rats. The increase in the concentration of GABA in the cerebrospinal fluid and the inhibition of the behaviour was specifically mediated by the ejaculation of the male; sexual stimulation unaccompanied by ejaculation had no effect. The post-ejaculatory suppression of sexual receptivity in female rats was partially reversed by intracerebroventricular injection of the GABA antagonist bicuculline and the behaviour of receptive rats was inhibited by intracerebroventricular injection of the GABA agonist muscimol. Increasing the concentration of GABA in the cerebrospinal fluid by i.p. injection of the GABA transminase inhibitor gamma-vinyl GABA caused an increase of the concentration of GABA in the cerebrospinal fluid and inhibited the display of sexual receptivity. It is suggested that GABA mediates physiologically relevant inhibition of sexual behaviour in female rats.
The ability of pentobarbital to modify the direct effects of iontophoretically ejected serotonin on the firing rates of cerebellar Purkinje cells was examined. Serotonin elicited inhibition, excitation, or a biphasic effect on cerebellar Purkinje cells. With continuous application of iontophoretic pentobarbital at currents found to potentiate GABA-induced inhibition, serotonin-mediated inhibitions were also augmented consistently. When application of serotonin elicited excitation, including a late component of biphasic responses, iontophoretic pentobarbital converted the effect to, primarily, inhibition. Besides increasing the magnitude of serotonin-mediated inhibition, iontophoretic pentobarbital increased the duration of this effect. In another series of experiments using pentobarbital rather than urethan as the anesthetic, serotonin-mediated inhibition was significantly augmented for all ejection currents tested. The GABA antagonists bicuculline, pentylenetetrazole and picrotoxin attenuated pentobarbital augmentation of serotonin-elicited inhibition. We conclude that serotonin-mediated inhibition of Purkinje cells is modifiable by pentobarbital and this effect bears a strong semblance to the actions of barbiturates on GABAergic neurotransmission.
The basal forebrain is critically involved in functions representing the highest levels of integration. Only recently has a relatively clear anatomical picture of this important area begun to emerge. The territory that has generally been referred to as the &quot;substantia innominata&quot; appears to be composed of portions of three recognizable forebrain structures: the ventral striatopallidal system, the extended amygdala and the magnocellular corticopetal system. (1) Rostrally, the striatopallidal system reaches ventrally to the base of the brain. (2) Caudal to the ventral extension of the striatopallidal system elements of the centromedial amygdala and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis are merged so that these two areas together with this subpallidal corridor form a large forebrain unit that might be described as an &quot;extended amygdala&quot;. (3) Large cholinergic and non-cholinergic corticopetal neurons form a more or less continuous aggregate that is interwoven with the striatopallidal and extended amygdala systems in basal forebrain. Consideration of morphological and connectional characteristics of basal forebrain suggests that the corticopetal cell groups, together with magnocellular elements of the striatum, serve similar functional roles for the striatopallidal system, the extended amygdala, and the septal-diagonal band complex. Specifically, the output of medium spiny neurons in striatum, extended amygdala, and lateral septum are directed toward somewhat larger sparsely or moderately spiny neurons with radiating dendrites which in turn project to diencephalon and brainstem or provide either local feedback (e.g. in striatum) or distal feedback to cortex. The functional implications of this parallel processing of descending forebrain afferents are discussed.
Specific antibodies raised in rabbits against 3-hydroxyanthranilic acid oxygenase (EC 1.13.11.6) and quinolinic acid phosphoribosyltransferase (EC 1.13.11.6) and quinolinic acid phosphoribosyltransferase (EC 2.4.2.19) were used in immunohistochemical studies to map the cellular localization of the quinolinic acid metabolizing enzymes in the adult male rat brain. 3-Hydroxyanthranilic acid oxygenase immunoreactivity was found to be present in glial cells of presumed astroglial identity, as judged by co-localization with glial fibrillary acidic protein. 3-Hydroxyanthranilic acid oxygenase-immunoreactive glial cells were present in all brain regions and within major fiber tracts. The density of 3-hydroxyanthranilic acid oxygenase-immunoreactive glial cells as well as the intensity of staining of these cells differed among brain regions. In general, telencephalic acid diencephalic areas harbored a larger number of 3-hydroxyanthranilic acid oxygenase-positive cells than did mesencephalic regions. In the former regions the caudate nucleus, septum, nucleus accumbens, neocortex and hippocampus were particularly enriched in 3-hydroxyanthranilic acid oxygenase-immunoreactive cells. In the thalamus, regional differences were noted with regard to the intensity of staining among glial cells with high densities of 3-hydroxyanthranilic acid oxygenase cells in the anteroventral, reticular and ventromedial nuclei. In the inferior and superior colliculi, numerous 3-hydroxyanthranilic acid oxygenase-positive glial cells were found in all layers. In the hypothalamus, 3-hydroxyanthranilic acid oxygenase-immunoreactive glial cells were encountered in the zona incerta, the lateral hypothalamic area, the caudal preoptic region and in the dorsomedial nucleus. In the mesencephalon, the substantia nigra contained numerous, moderately stained cells. At caudal levels of the brain-stem, a relatively large number of cells was detected in the nucleus of the solitary tract, the pontine nucleus and in the fascial nerve nucleus, while other nuclei, such as the reticular formation and the area postrema were relatively poor in 3-hydroxyanthranilic acid oxygenase-immunoreactive cells. In addition to staining of glial cells, neuronal cell bodies containing 3-hydroxyanthranilic acid oxygenase immunoreactivity were detected in the main and in the accessory olfactory bulb, as well as in the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus. Quinolinic acid phosphoribosyltransferase immunoreactivity was observed within glial cells and in association with neuronal cell bodies. Some, but not all, quinolinic acid phosphoribosyltransferase positive glial cells contained glial fibrillary acidic protein (Khl
Indirect immunofluorescence method was used to localize 5-hydroxytryptamine-immunoreactive structures in the superior cervical ganglion of adult rats. In the ganglia of normal rats, 5-hydroxytryptamine immunoreactivity was localized in the small intensely fluorescent cells, but not in principal nerve cells. In the superior cervical ganglion of rats, pretreated with nialamide, a monoamine oxidase inhibitor, 150 mg/kg i.p., and the 5-hydroxytryptamine precursor, L-tryptophan, 45 mg/kg i.p., a large number of 5-hydroxytryptamine-immunoreactive principal nerve cells and small intensely fluorescent cells were detected. The immunoreactive principal nerve cells had long processes, and 5-hydroxytryptamine-immunoreactive nerve fibers were observed traversing the ganglion. In ganglia of rats pretreated with colchicine, occasional 5-hydroxytryptamine-immunoreactive principal nerve cells and several small intensely fluorescent cells were detected. Ligation of the main postganglionic nerve trunks of the superior cervical ganglion of normal rats resulted in the appearance of several 5-hydroxytryptamine-immunoreactive principal nerve cells and nerve fibers in the ganglion. To study whether the 5-hydroxytryptamine immunoreactivity in the superior cervical ganglion represented uptake or synthesis of 5-hydroxytryptamine, rats were injected with a specific 5-hydroxytryptamine uptake inhibitor, fluoxetine, 10 mg/kg i.p. twice a day for 5 days, and then they were treated with nialamide and L-tryptophan, as described above. In the superior cervical ganglion of fluoxetine-treated rats, a few 5-hydroxytryptamine-immunoreactive principal nerve and small intensely fluorescent cells, as well as some nerve fibers, were detected.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The purpose of this study was to determine whether cells of the human neuroblastoma line, LA-N-2, are capable of establishing functional synapses in culture. We used a coculture system in which striated muscle cells from the rat served as postsynaptic targets for the cholinergic LA-N-2 cells. By recording postsynaptic responses from muscle cells, differentiated LA-N-2 cells were found to innervate muscle cells, releasing acetylcholine spontaneously at LA-N-2-muscle synapses. A subpopulation of the LA-N-2 cells forming synapses with the muscle cells also developed the ability to release acetylcholine in response to stimulation. This, coupled with results obtained from experiments examining the time course of synapse formation, led us to propose that the extent to which LA-N-2 cells in our coculture system are differentiated may vary and that this variation may underlie the degree to which they express neuron-like transmission properties.
Hypoglycaemia and anoxia both cause massive release of glutamate from the brain in vivo, and the nature of this release was investigated using guinea-pig cerebral-cortical synaptosomes and iodoacetate and rotenone to simulate the energetic consequences of these conditions. Glutamate release (by continuous fluorimetry), cytoplasmic free Ca2+ (by fura-2), membrane potentials, ATP, ADP and creatine phosphate were determined in parallel, following the addition of iodoacetate or rotenone, alone or in combination. Ca2+-dependent glutamate release had a high energy requirement which could only be satisfied by aerobic glycolysis. Respiration using endogenous substrates, or anaerobic glycolysis following rotenone, caused a progressive inhibition of Ca2+-dependent release, correlating with a decline in the total ATP/ADP ratio and creatine phosphate. With rotenone, an increase in Ca2+-independent glutamate release was observed, correlating with a decline in plasma membrane potential. Only a slight increase in free Ca2+ was seen. Rotenone plus iodoacetate caused an almost immediate collapse of ATP/ADP ratio and a parallel loss of Ca2+-dependent glutamate release before free Ca2+ had risen to a level sufficient for exocytosis. In contrast, Ca2+-independent glutamate release increased. The Ca2+-dependent release of L-glutamate had the characteristics of an exocytotic transmitter release mechanism, being energy-dependent and triggered by elevated cytoplasmic free Ca2+ concentration. A distinct Ca2+-independent release of cytoplasmic glutamate occurred by reversal of the Na+-coupled uptake carrier, which was accelerated by a decline in the Na+ gradient. It is concluded that the Ca2+-independent release of cytoplasmic glutamate may make the major contribution to the excitotoxic release of glutamate in hypoglycaemic and anoxic conditions.
Intracellular recordings from slices of rat neostriatum were utilized to study the effects of endogenous dopamine and of exogenous dopaminergic agonists on the excitatory synaptic potentials evoked by the local stimulation of the slice. D-Amphetamine (0.1-5 microM), as well as dopamine, produced a dose-dependent decrease of the excitatory synaptic potentials. This effect was blocked by membrane hyperpolarization. The blockade of potassium channels by intracellular cesium or by extracellular 4-aminopyridine (0.5-1 mM) did not block the voltage-dependent effect of dopamine. The effects of D-amphetamine were antagonized by (R)-(+)-8-chloro-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-3-methyl-5-phenyl-1H-3-benzazepine-7 -ol (SCH 23390) (0.1-1 microM), an antagonist for D1 dopaminergic receptors, but not by sulpiride (0.1-1 microM), an antagonist for D2 receptors. Pretreatment of the animals with alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine (200 mg/kg) or with reserpine (5 mg/kg) blocked the amphetamine-induced effect on the synaptic potentials. In reserpinized animals, the hyperpolarization of the membrane potential did not block the dopamine-induced decrease of the synaptic excitation. After reserpine pretreatment bromocryptine and lysuride, D2 agonists which in control conditions were ineffective, also mimicked the effects of dopamine. In reserpinized rats, the inhibitory effects of the dopaminergic agonists were antagonized by sulpiride, but not by SCH 23390. We conclude that in naive animals endogenous dopamine mimics the voltage-dependent reduction of synaptic excitation produced by D1 activation, while in catecholamine-depleted rats dopamine lacks its voltage-dependent effect and interacts with &quot;supersensitive&quot; D2 receptors.
The origin and distribution of cerebellar cortical and nuclear afferents from the locus coeruleus complex (the nucleus locus coeruleus, the nucleus subcoeruleus, the medial and lateral subdivisions of the parabrachial nucleus and the Klliker-Fuse nucleus) have been studied by means of retrograde transport of the wheat germ agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase complex in the cat. Cerebellar cortical depositions of the tracer were made by pressure injections, while nuclear depositions were made by implanting the tracer in crystalline form. The projection is bilateral with an ipsilateral preponderance. It reaches all the cerebellar nuclei as well as vermal, intermediate and lateral parts of the cerebellar cortex. The highest cell counts were made after tracer depositions in vermal and intermediate parts of the cerebellum. The projection in the cat has a more widespread origin than previously reported. It originates mainly within the nucleus locus coeruleus and the parabrachial nucleus (especially in its lateral subdivision), but retrogradely labelled neurons were also found in nucleus subcoeruleus, the Klliker-Fuse nucleus and the A4 cell group. The cells of origin were of different shapes, but usually had a maximum diameter of the cell body between 15 and 30 micron. Cerebellar efferent axons passing through the locus coeruleus complex were anterogradely labelled following implants in all the cerebellar nuclei, but definite terminal labelling was not observed within the nuclei of the locus coeruleus complex.
Simultaneous recordings of mechanical and intracellular electrical activity were obtained from the guinea-pig vas deferens, where nerve stimulation, ATP and the stable nucleotide analogue alpha,beta-methylene ATP elicited excitatory responses. Excitatory junction potentials and action potentials were elicited by low-frequency (trains of pulses, generally less than or equal to 2 Hz) field stimulation. alpha,beta-Methylene ATP and ATP elicited only concentration-dependent depolarizations at low concentrations, while higher concentrations elicited a superimposed action potential discharge which was accompanied by mechanical contraction. The voltage threshold at which action potential discharge was initiated by these three stimuli was about -45 mV (resting membrane potential averaged -66 mV). Action potential discharges and contractile responses were antagonized by nifedipine and augmented by Bay K 8644 at concentrations (1 and 0.5 microM, respectively) which exhibited only small effects on either excitatory junction potential amplitudes or nucleotide-induced depolarizations. Bay K 8644 enhanced and nifedipine antagonized the repolarization (rectification) phase of action potential discharge elicited by nerve stimulation and drugs; after-hyperpolarizations were prominent in the presence of Bay K 8644 (0.1-5 microM). Excitatory junction potentials were antagonized after exposure to alpha,beta-methylene ATP. This antagonistic effect of alpha,beta-methylene ATP was also observed following depolarizations elicited in the absence and presence of nifedipine (1 microM). Noradrenaline was approximately 50-100 times less potent than alpha,beta-methylene ATP in eliciting action potential discharge and contraction. It was only when a high concentration of noradrenaline was used (about 60-100 microM) that the noradrenaline-induced depolarization attained the voltage threshold for action potential initiation. These results illustrate the similarity of the electrical components which underlie excitation by nerve stimulation and adenine nucleotides in the vas deferens, and demonstrate the ability of dihydropyridines to regulate voltage-dependent events associated with both the generation and inactivation of muscle action potentials. These are probably voltage-dependent calcium currents and calcium-activated potassium currents, respectively. Neither excitatory junction potentials nor the mechanism of desensitization of the ATP purinoceptor by alpha,beta-methylene ATP involve voltage-dependent calcium channels.
This work, based on Golgi impregnations, transmission electron microscopy and immunocytochemistry, demonstrates that the intermediate filaments found in the radial gliocytes of the adult newt spinal cord are both vimentin and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) structures. Gliocytes appeared as large, arboreous cells, with appendages extending peripherally. They were extensively immunolabelled with both anti-vimentin and anti-GFAP monoclonal antibody conjugates. Outstanding correspondence in cell configuration was found when Golgi-impregnated specimens were compared to the distribution of immunolabels. Electron micrographs showed cytoplasmic bundles of anti-vimentin decorated intermediate filaments occupying the radial projections. The presence of GFAP confirms the astroglial character of the radial glia in urodeles; the existence of vimentin suggests that the spinal cord of the adult animal retains immature astroglia, which should express enlarged capabilities of adaptation.
The present study was undertaken to investigate the possible effects of Spantide [D-Arg1, D-Trp7,9 Leu11]-substance P, a substance P antagonist, and of somatostatin on spinal cord blood flow. The experiments were performed with the laser-doppler technique on the L1 spinal cord segment exposed by laminectomy. The effect of Spantide was also studied in the rat with the [14C]iodoantipyrine technique. In addition, experiments were performed on rabbit skeletal muscle in vivo after administration of Spantide to the local vasculature. In the experiments on spinal cord, approximately the same doses were employed as those earlier shown to be &quot;neurotoxic&quot;. When the vehicle alone (0.9% saline) was administered intrathecally, a slight decrease of brief duration was noted in the blood flow. Spantide, however, caused a dose-dependent decrease, where 2 micrograms caused an immediate drop of the blood flow to approx. 20% of its normal value. A total circulatory arrest was found in several animals. In most cases, the flow was gradually normalized, whereas the effect persisted for up to 60 min in others. Virtually the same effect was exerted by somatostatin. The experiments using the iodoantipyrine technique confirmed the effect of Spantide. Here, the high resolution of this method showed that the gray matter was affected preferentially, with a complete ischemic state or a drastically reduced flow in 4 out of 5 animals 10 min after 2 micrograms of Spantide; one animal was unaffected, and this animal did not show any signs of motor impairment. The vasoconstriction of Spantide was not affected by simultaneous injections with substance P. However, after i.v. pretreatment with thyrotropin-releasing hormone, at a dose that previously has been reported to be protective against the neurodegenerative effects of Spantide, blood flow was markedly increased as compared to Spantide alone. Results from the experiments using intravital microscopy flow studies in the rabbit tenuissimus muscle revealed that Spantide at the doses used had no vasoconstrictor effect in the skeletal muscle of this species. The results suggest that previous demonstrations of motor impairment and &quot;neurotoxic&quot; actions of intrathecally injected substance P antagonists and somatostatin may be related to a marked decrease in spinal cord blood flow. Counteraction of the effect of Spantide by thyrotropin-releasing hormone may be explained by its effect to increase blood flow.
The present investigation was prompted by previous studies in our laboratory which have indicated that tachykinins enhance depressant effects of purines and that the purine adenosine mediates a vibration-induced depression of nociceptive dorsal horn neurons. Extracellular recordings were made from single nociceptive neurons in the lower lumbar segments of anaesthetized cats. Vibration (80 Hz; 2.5-3.5 s every 20-25 s) was applied to the hindlimb using a feedback-controlled mechanical stimulator. The tachykinins physalaemin, substance P and neurokinin A were administered by iontophoresis. Physalaemin was tested on vibration-induced responses of 29 neurons; each neuron was excited by this tachykinin. To control for possible changes in the response to vibration caused by the excitation per se, statistical comparisons were made of the vibration-induced responses during excitation by tachykinins and during excitation by glutamate. In 16 cases the magnitude of the vibration-induced depression was significantly greater during the excitation caused by physalaemin. With the remaining neurons the response to vibration failed to differ during the excitation by physalaemin compared with the excitation by glutamate. In four of the 16 cases subthreshold applications of vibration caused depression after administration of physalaemin. The P1-purinergic (adenosine) antagonist, caffeine, was administered in three cases where vibration caused depression only with application of physalaemin. In each of these cases the depression was reversibly blocked by caffeine (10 or 40 mg kg-1 i.v.). The magnitude of vibration-induced depression was significantly increased during excitation by neurokinin A (5/14 neurons) or by substance P (1/9 neurons). From the results of the present study we suggest that tachykinins enhance the vibration-induced depression. This enhancement may be due to enhanced depression by adenosine.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Retrogradely labelled lamina I neurons were studied after intrathalamic injections of free horseradish peroxidase mixed with dimethylsulphoxide, wheat germ agglutinin conjugated with horseradish peroxidase, and subunit B of cholera toxin. The first two tracers revealed only the perikaryal shape and the orientation of primary dendrites, while cholera toxin subunit B produced Golgi-like stainings. The morphological and morphometric analysis of the labelled marginal neurons in different planes showed them to belong to the pyramidal and the flattened types of our Golgi-based classification. These cells were located predominantly in the intermediate lateromedial portion of lamina I at all spinal levels, and it is suggested that their structural duality is matched by different functional properties. Distributions of the remaining spinothalamic cells labelled with the two horseradish peroxidase tracers were rather similar to those previously reported in the literature, including the almost exclusive occurrence of labelled cells, at lumbar levels, in the internal basilar column group. Cholera toxin subunit B labelled many more spinal cells and revealed considerable numbers of labelled cells in all cell groups at the lumbar enlargement.
In situ hybridization, Northern blotting, and solution hybridization assay were used to examine vasopressin-gene messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) transcripts in hypothalamic tissue from five strains of rats: Long-Evans, Wistar-Kyoto, and diabetes insipidus (Brattleboro) rats, spontaneously hypertensive-stroke-prone rats, and cross-bred diabetes insipidus x spontaneously hypertensive-stroke-prone rats. A 290 base-pair, single-stranded RNA probe, with 221 bases complementary to exon C of the vasopressin gene was synthesized by the SP6 transcription vector system. This probe labeled appropriate neurohypophysial hypothalamic neurons, as well as suprachiasmatic nucleus cells, in tissue samples from all five strains of rats. Confirming other recent hybridization results with diabetes insipidus rat brain tissue, diabetic animals were found to transcribe their mutated vasopressin gene. In addition, this investigation found that the cross-bred diabetic-hypertensive rat also synthesizes a vasopressin-gene messenger ribonucleic acid transcript. Quantitative analyses of solution and in situ hybridization results suggested the cross-bred diabetic-hypertensive rat exhibits a level of vasopressin-gene messenger ribonucleic acid similar to diabetes insipidus rats. This observation is consistent with previous data on the cross-bred diabetic-hypertensive rat which suggests they inherit the mutant vasopressin gene from Brattleboro rats.
Rats were given bilateral injections of colchicine into the dorsal and ventral hippocampus to study the role of the dentate gyrus granule cells in the acquisition and performance of a spatial, working memory task in the radial arm maze. Three weeks after intradentate injections, rats were trained in a task in which all eight arms were baited prior to each daily trail. For up to 20 days of training, colchicine-treated rats were significantly impaired in the performance of the task. In another study, rats received 20 days of training and then were given intradentate colchicine. Three weeks later, the performance of the colchicine-treated rats was impaired for up to 20 days of testing. A third experiment tested the ability of colchicine-treated rats to learn a task in which the same four arms of the maze were baited, while the remaining arms were never baited. Colchicine-treated rats were significantly impaired in their ability to perform this version of the task. Histological verification indicated that colchicine resulted in a relatively select loss of granule cells, while sparing pyramidal cells in the hippocampus. These data suggest that the hippocampus plays an integral role in the performance of the place tasks used in these experiments.
An injection of trimethyltin (TMT) into adult male Wistar rats produced a transient hyperirritability and aggressive behavior. When these effects of the drug subsided, the rats were still markedly impaired in performance of a spatial memory task examined in a watermaze. Activity of neurons in the hippocampus of these TMT-treated rats was studied in a slice preparation. A large (8 mg/kg) or double (7.5 and 3.5 mg/kg, two weeks apart) i.p. injection of TMT caused a loss of slow inhibitory postsynaptic potentials recorded in CA1 neurons in response to stimulation of stratum radiatum. A loss of accommodating properties of the neurons in response to a prolonged depolarizing current pulse was also seen in some of these cells. Other resting properties of the neurons were within the normal range. Topical application of acetylcholine (ACh) produces in normal hippocampal neurons a depolarizing response and a blockade of after-hyperpolarization. Only the latter response to ACh was seen in cells from TMT treated rats. No effect of the drug on reactivity to serotonin was detected. These effects of TMT were not seen when the drug was applied acutely while recording from cells in the slice indicating that it involves a degeneration process. These results suggest that the cognitive deficits in TMT treated rats might be associated with deficits in cholinergic functions.
The purpose of these experiments was to evaluate the utility of a water maze for testing performance in nonfood-restricted rats. Water maze performance was compared to performance in a food-rewarded (food) maze. Separate groups of rats were given single daily trials of 34 days in one of two mazes. The path through each maze was identical; in fact, the same maze was used with the exception that the maze was filled with water during water maze testing and left dry during the food maze testing. In the food maze, a chocolate peanut butter chip was placed at the finish. In the water maze an out-of-the-water platform was placed at the finish. The time to reach the finish was measured for each trial. Both free-feeding and food-restricted rats were tested in each maze. Free-feeding rats learned the food maze with great difficulty, requiring more than 30 trials. Food-restricted rats learned the food maze more quickly than did free-feeding rats. Free-feeding rats learned to solve the water maze more quickly than the food maze. Food-restricted rats also learned the water maze more quickly than the food maze and learned both mazes faster than free-feeding rats. Plasma levels of corticosterone, ACTH and prolactin were measured in all rats immediately following completion of the last maze trial. Plasma corticosterone levels were elevated and plasma prolactin levels were decreased in both food-restricted groups as compared to free-feeding rats, demonstrating that food restriction was chronically stressful.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
To investigate molecular mechanisms involved in the neurotoxicity of clioquinol (5-chloro-7-iodo-8-hydroxyquinoline), the inhibitory effects of this drug on DNA, RNA and protein syntheses were examined, in relation to the action of nerve growth factor (2.5S NGF). We used an organ culture of neonatal rat superior cervical ganglion (SCG). Ten microM clioquinol inhibited completely DNA and protein syntheses and abolished the stimulatory effect of NGF on RNA synthesis. With regard to the chemical structure of clioquinol, hydroxylation at the 8th carbon of quinoline is essential for the inhibition of DNA, RNA and protein syntheses, and the hydrophobicity of the 8-HQ derivatives is a required property for potent inhibition. Compared with effects of EDTA, alizarine, sodium alizarine sulfate, o-phenanthroline and alpha,alpha'-dipyridyl, the loss of the NGF-induced stimulation of RNA synthesis by clioquinol does not seem to be primarily caused by its metal-chelating property. Clioquinol did not significantly alter the uptake rate of thymidine, uridine and leucine, thereby suggesting that the primary action of clioquinol on inhibition of DNA, RNA and protein syntheses does not relate to uptake of the precursor into SCG. Clioquinol did not significantly alter the degradation of 3H-uridine-labeled RNA. NGF suppressed the degradation of RNA and this suppression was overcome by clioquinol. The release of free uridine from SCG into the culture medium was enhanced by clioquinol and was partially suppressed by NGF. The inhibitory effects of clioquinol were completely prevented by bovine serum albumin (BSA), but not by NGF even at a 5-fold concentration of clioquinol.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Progressive cerebral deposition of extracellular filaments composed of the beta-amyloid protein (beta AP) is a constant feature of Alzheimer disease (AD). Since the gene on chromosome 21 encoding the beta AP precursor (beta APP) is not known to be altered in AD, transcriptional or posttranslational changes may underlie accelerated beta AP deposition. Using two antibodies to the predicted carboxyl terminus of beta APP, we have identified the native beta APP in brain and nonneural human tissues as a 110- to 135-kDa protein complex that is insoluble in buffer and found in various membrane-rich subcellular fractions. These proteins are relatively uniformly distributed in adult brain, abundant in fetal brain, and detected in nonneural tissues that contain beta APP mRNA. Similarly sized proteins occur in rat, cow, and monkey brain and in cultured human HL-60 and HeLa cells; the precise patterns in the 110- to 135-kDa range are heterogeneous among various tissues and cell lines. Confirmation that the immunodetected tissue proteins are forms of beta APP was obtained when mammalian cells transfected with a full-length beta APP cDNA showed selectively augmented expression of 110- to 135-kDa proteins and specific immunocytochemical staining. Unexpectedly, the antibodies to the carboxyl terminus of beta APP labeled amyloid-containing senile plaques in AD brain. We conclude that the highly conserved beta APP molecule occurs in mammalian tissues as a heterogeneous group of membrane-associated proteins of approximately 120 kDa. Detection of the nonamyloidogenic carboxyl terminus within plaques suggests that proteolytic processing of the beta APP into insoluble filaments occurs locally in cortical regions that develop beta-amyloid deposits with age.
Using a sensitive histofluorescence staining method that allows for a quantitation of neuronal death, we compared the protective effects of gangliosides (a group of naturally occurring glycosphingolipids), phencyclidine (PCP), and MK-801 (dibenzocyclohepteneimine) on glutamate- and kainate-induced neuronal death in primary cultures of cortical and cerebellar neurons prepared from neonatal rats. PCP and MK-801 block neurotoxicity induced by glutamate doses 50 times higher than the LD50 (LD50 in Mg2+-free medium, 10 microM) but only partially block the kainate neurotoxicity (LD50 in presence of Mg2+, 100 microM). In contrast, pretreatment with gangliosides (GT1b greater than GD1b greater than GM1) results in complete and insurmountable protection against the neurotoxicity elicited by glutamate or kainate. In primary cultures of cerebellar granule cells gangliosides, unlike PCP and MK-801, fail to block glutamate-gated cationic currents and the glutamate-evoked increase of (i) inositol phospholipid hydrolysis (ii) c-fos mRNA content, and (iii) nuclear accumulation of c-fos protein. Protection of glutamate neurotoxicity by gangliosides does not require their presence in the incubation medium; however, it is proportional to the amount of glycosphingolipid accumulated in the neuronal membranes. The ganglioside concentration (30-60 microM) that blocks glutamate-elicited neuronal death also prevents glutamate- and kainate-induced protein kinase C translocation from cytosol to neuronal membranes.
We have studied three low molecular weight phosphoproteins, ARPP-16, ARPP-19, and ARPP-21 (cAMP-regulated phosphoproteins of Mr 16,000, 19,000, and 21,000, respectively) in reaggregate cultures from various regions of fetal mouse brain. ARPP-16 and ARPP-21 were detected only in striatal and cortical cultures. In contrast, ARP-19, which is structurally related to ARPP-16, was also present in reaggregate cultures prepared from thalamus and ventral and dorsal mesencephalon, as well as in monolayer cultures of astroglial cells. In striatal aggregates cultured over a 3-week period, the relative levels of ARPP-16, ARPP-21, and synapsin I/protein IIIa (synaptic vesicle-associated phosphoproteins closely related to each other and treated as a single entity in the present study) increased with time, whereas the level of ARPP-19 decreased. Incubation of striatal aggregates with 8-Br-cAMP, forskolin, or vasoactive intestinal peptide increased the phosphorylation of all these proteins. We conclude that the state of phosphorylation of two proteins enriched in specific neurons (ARPP-16 and ARPP-21) and two more widely distributed proteins (ARPP-19 and synapsin I/protein IIIa) is regulated by cAMP and vasoactive intestinal peptide in striatal cells in culture. These phosphoproteins may therefore play a role in mediating some of the actions of vasoactive intestinal peptide in the caudate-putamen.
A truck driver was injured by a high-voltage line of 10,000 volts when holding a metallic bar in both hands. Initially no neurological abnormalities were found, but during the following few weeks increasing sensory and minor motor symptoms developed in the right upper extremity. After one year numbness of the right thigh and leg appeared, as well as attacks of white finger in both hands. Repeated examinations showed progressive abnormalities of the median and ulnar nerves in both hands. No other cause for Raynaud's syndrome was discovered. The late high-voltage effects, presumably indirect, are suggested to be of multifactorial etiology.
Naturalistic behaviors are behaviors that organisms exhibit 'in nature'. Eating, sleeping and sexual behaviors are examples. Since naturalistic behaviors are observed to occur without any apparent training or learning, some people mistakenly believe that all naturalistic behaviors are unlearned, and are thus different from laboratory behaviors. We maintain that naturalistic behaviors can be studied profitably in the toxicological laboratory, using quantitative techniques from behavioral neuroscience. Understanding of toxicity and underlying mechanisms is enhanced when naturalistic behaviors are thought of as responses to stimuli. Stimuli that influence naturalistic behaviors may arise inside the organisms (e.g., physiological signals of hunger) or outside the organisms (e.g., the smell of food or the start of the nocturnal lighting cycle). A practical, noninvasive, automated system can be used to improve upon the cage-side observation currently used to evaluate naturalistic behaviors in toxicity screening. Effects of alkyltins and other neurotoxicants upon eating, drinking, rearing, and the daily cycle of rest-activity will be shown. The rodent's pattern of nocturnal activity has proven to be particularly sensitive to neurotoxicants, and thus deserves additional attention in developing neurobehavioral toxicology.
We have studied the distribution of tyrosine hydroxylase-containing neurons in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) and supraoptic nucleus (SON) of the adult human hypothalamus. Large numbers of these neurons were seen in these hypothalamic nuclei; approximately 40% of all the cells within the SON and PVN were immunoreactive for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH-ir). Most of these cells were magnocellular. Their distribution was compared to that of arginine-vasopressin-immunoreactive (AVP-ir) cells. In the SON a greater proportion of magnocellular TH-ir cells was found caudally compared to AVP-ir cells. In the PVN the magnocellular TH-ir cells were larger in mean diameter compared to AVP-ir cells. In double-immunofluorescence experiments some TH-ir cells contained oxytocin immunoreactivity but none contained AVP-ir. In the adult human a large number of PVN and SON magnocellular cells appear to synthesize a catecholamine. A subclass of these neurons also synthesize oxytocin but most cells are distinct from the classically described neurosecretory neurons.

Previous immunocytochemical studies have shown immunological differences between neurofilaments in axons and those in dendrites and perikarya of many mature neuron types: it is now known that non-phosphorylated epitopes are normally seen in cell bodies and dendrites of mature neurons, whereas phosphorylated epitopes are observed in axons. Further studies on a variety of cell types have shown that phosphorylated epitopes are induced in the cell-body associated neurofilaments following axotomy, and we show here that comparable changes are observed in axotomized rat superior cervical ganglion neurons (SCG). We have also observed that preganglionic section induces similar changes in the levels of neurofilament phosphorylation, so that phosphorylated epitopes become visible in the cell bodies and dendrites of denervated neurons. The changes in this case appear more slowly and are accompanied by the appearance of punctate nuclear staining detectable with phosphorylation sensitive neurofilament antibodies. The acquisition of these staining patterns by both the axotomized and denervated SCG cells proved to be reversible, so that after 10-12 days no neurons in either experimental group exhibited perikaryal phosphorylated epitopes. These results indicate that changes in the level of neurofilament phosphorylation are not only associated with neuronal damage, but can also be induced by deafferentation.
The release of dopamine (DA) in vivo was compared in the striatum and nucleus accumbens following chronic (21 day) administration of clozapine (CLOZ) and repeated coadministration of haloperidol (HAL) and the alpha 1-noradrenergic (NE) receptor antagonist prazosin. Treatment with HAL reduced basal DA release in both brain regions, whereas treatment with CLOZ decreased basal DA release only in the accumbens. Chronic coadministration of HAL and prazosin resulted in decreased DA release in accumbens but not striatum. These results suggest that the alpha 1-NE receptor blocking properties of CLOZ may, in part, mediate its differential actions on nigrostriatal and mesolimbic DA release, an effect which may in addition contribute to its paucity of extrapyramidal side effects.
Inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (InsP3) is a component of the phosphoinositide second-messenger system which mobilizes Ca2+ from intracellular stores. Recently, an InsP3 receptor binding protein from rat cerebellar membranes was solubilized and purified to homogeneity. The potent inhibition by Ca2+ of [3H]InsP3 binding to the InsP3 receptor in cellular membranes is not apparent in the purified receptor. The Ca2+-dependent inhibition of [3H]InsP3 binding in the crude homogenate (concn. giving 50% inhibition = 300 nM) can be restored by addition of solubilized cerebellar membranes to the purified receptor. In the present study, we further characterize the protein in solubilized membranes which confers Ca2+-sensitivity to the receptor, and which we term 'calmedin'. Calmedin appears to be a neutral membrane protein with an estimated Mr of 300,000 by gel filtration in the presence of Triton X-100. Calmedin confers a Ca2+-sensitivity to InsP3 receptor binding, which can be completely reversed by 10 min incubation with EDTA and therefore does not represent Ca2+-dependent proteinase action. Calmedin effects on the purified InsP3 receptor depend on Ca2+ binding to the calmedin, although Ca2+ also binds directly to the InsP3 receptor. The regional distribution of calmedin differs from that of the InsP3 receptor in the brain, suggesting that it also mediates other Ca2+-dependent functions. Calmedin activity in peripheral tissues is much lower than in brain.



Subcutaneous administration to mice of the sulfated octapeptide of cholecystokinin (CCK; 0.2-1 mg/kg) lowered dopamine release and metabolism in the caudate-putamen and frontal cortex in a dose- and time-related manner. Twelve-fold higher doses of CCK were required to lower dopamine release and metabolism in the olfactory tubercle. Amphetamine-induced increases in dopamine release but not metabolism in the caudate-putamen and olfactory tubercle were attenuated in a dose-related manner by CCK. Increases in dopamine release and metabolism following haloperidol were also attenuated by CCK. These data are consistent with the potential antipsychotic action of CCK receptor agonists. CCK appears to be a suppressor of striatal, limbic and cortical dopamine release, especially when release is augmented.
The firing patterns of visual cortical neurons were studied by intracellular recording in in vitro guinea pig brain slices. On depolarization 57% of the cells exhibited tonic firing of action potentials while the remaining cells (43%) had a phasic component in their response. Phasic cells exhibited a large diversity in their burst characteristics as well as in the burst dependence on the membrane potential. Ionic conductances underlying burst generation appeared to be also diverse, thus bursting neurons in the visual cortex cannot be grouped in a single, homogeneous population.
N-Methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-stimulated [3H]noradrenaline release from rat hippocampal slices was blocked stereospecifically and non-competitively by MK-801 with the (+)-isomer achieving 50% blockade of 100 microM NMDA at 16 nM. The results indicate that MK-801 is the most potent NMDA antagonist yet described and that it blocks NMDA-stimulated neurotransmitter release by an action at the so-called 'phencyclidine (PCP) site'.
The ultimate aim of computational neuroscience is to explain how electrical and chemical signals are used in the brain to represent and process information. This goal is not new, but much has changed in the last decade. More is known now about the brain because of advances in neuroscience, more computing power is available for performing realistic simulations of neural systems, and new insights are available from the study of simplifying models of large networks of neurons. Brain models are being used to connect the microscopic level accessible by molecular and cellular techniques with the systems level accessible by the study of behavior.
The nucleus basalis (NB) of the human brain is a large, complex, and highly differentiated structure. Many of its neurons are magnocellular, hyperchromic, isodendritic, acetylcholinesterase-rich, and choline-acetyltransferase-positive. Concurrent histochemical and immunological staining demonstrated that all choline-acetyltransferase-positive NB neurons in the human brain also contain acetylcholinesterase enzyme activity. Only a small minority of acetylcholinesterase-rich magnocellular cell bodies in the NB failed to show choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity. Sections that were counterstained for Nissl substance showed that 80-90% of all magnocellular neurons in the NB were choline-acetyltransferase-positive and therefore cholinergic. These characteristics, which are very similar to those of the NB in the monkey brain, justified the designation of these cholinergic neurons in the human brain as the Ch4 (or NB-Ch4) complex. On morphological grounds, the compact parts of the human NB-Ch4 complex were divided into distinct sectors which appeared to show a greater level of differentiation than in the monkey brain. In addition to the compact sectors, interstitial elements of NB Ch4 were embedded within adjacent fiber bundles. The putative cortical projections from NB-Ch4 were identified in the form of acetylcholinesterase-rich fibers. These fibers formed a dense plexus in all cortical regions but also displayed laminar and regional variations. Limbic and paralimbic areas had higher concentrations of these fibers than the immediately adjacent neocortical association areas. Alzheimer's disease was associated with a marked depletion of cortical acetylcholinesterase. Two cases of Alzheimer's disease with relatively selective NB-Ch4 cell loss supported the hypothesis that the corticopetal cholinergic pathways in the human brain may have a topographical organization similar to that in the monkey brain.
Rats made tolerant/dependent to morphine by s.c. implantation of drug pellets displayed a significant decrease in striatal preproenkephalin mRNA that persisted during the period of withdrawal. Levels of Met-enkephalin were normal at the end of treatment, but reduced after withdrawal. The direction and time-course of these alterations are consistent with roles for altered neuronal gene expression in the phenomena of opiate tolerance and dependence.

A mutation has been found that dramatically shortens the period of the circadian locomotor rhythm of golden hamsters. The pattern of inheritance of this mutation suggests that it occurred at a single, autosomal locus (tau). Wild-type animals have rhythms with free-running periods averaging about 24 hours; animals heterozygous for the mutation have periods of about 22 hours, whereas homozygous animals have rhythms with periods close to 20 hours. Animals that carry the mutant alleles exhibit abnormal entrainment to 24-hour light:dark cycles or are unable to entrain.
Sublingual lorazepam was successful in controlling serial seizures in ten children. There was both intrasubject and intersubject variability in the effective dose, which ranged from about 0.05 mg/kg to 0.15 mg/kg. Side effects were minimal and consisted of drowsiness, unsteadiness, nausea, and hyperactivity. Sublingual lorazepam is an easy and effective way to treat serial seizures at home.
In 18 anesthetized dogs, antroduodenal and pyloric motility was monitored in vivo by a sleeve and perfused side-hole manometric assembly and by antral and duodenal serosal strain gauges. Close intra-arterial injection to the pylorus of dynorphin-(1-13) (Dyn) for kappa-receptors, [D-Pen2,5]enkephalin (DPen2,5-Enk) for delta-receptors, and [N-Me-Phe3-D-Pro4]morphiceptin (PL017) and [D-Ala2,N-Me-Phe4,Gly5-ol]enkephalin (DAGO) for mu-receptors showed no excitatory effect in the pylorus. When pyloric motor activity was increased by duodenal field stimulation 3-5 cm aboaad from the pylorus, Dyn greater than DPen2,5-Enk greater than DAGO produced a dose-dependent inhibition of the pyloric motor activity. Naloxone (200 micrograms/kg iv and 20 micrograms ia) had no effect on the pyloric excitation due to duodenal field stimulation, but it reduced the inhibitory response of intra-arterially injected opioids. In addition, opioid binding ([3H]diprenorphine) in microsomal and mitochondrial fractions from the inner circular muscle ring of the pylorus showed a distribution similar to the neuronal marker [3H]saxitoxin but no correlation to the plasma membrane marker 5'-nucleotidase. These results suggest the existence of inhibitory opioid receptors (kappa- and delta-receptors) on excitatory neurons in the intestinal neuronal pathway, which activates the canine pylorus.
The effect of superoxide radical on the azide-insensitive ATP-dependent Ca2+-transport by a plasma membrane (PM)-enriched fraction (F2) and an endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-enriched fraction (F3) isolated from pig coronary artery was examined using xanthine oxidase plus xanthine to generate superoxide ions. A preincubation with xanthine oxidase plus xanthine at 37 degrees C preferentially inactivated the oxalate-stimulated Ca2+ uptake by the F3 fraction rather than the phosphate-stimulated uptake by the F2 fraction, indicating that the Ca2+ pump in the ER was more susceptible to this free radical. The inactivation of the Ca2+ uptake depended on the concentrations of xanthine oxidase and xanthine in the preincubation mixture as well as on the preincubation time. Furthermore, the inclusion of superoxide dismutase in the preincubation mixture prevented the inactivation. Thus the inactivation was caused by superoxide radical. Preincubation with xanthine oxidase plus xanthine, however, altered the half-life of efflux of Ca2+ from these vesicles only marginally. On sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, the F3 fraction showed formation of a Ca2+-dependent acid stable phosphoenzyme at 0 degree C predominantly at a protein band corresponding to 100 kDa. The level of the 100-kDa acylphosphate intermediate was inhibited in parallel with the inhibition of the Ca2+ uptake by preincubation with xanthine oxidase plus xanthine. We conclude that superoxide radical inactivates the ER Ca2+ transport by lowering the level of the phosphoenzyme.
New brain imaging techniques may provide evidence for a biological basis for severe psychiatric disorders. The authors used quantitative X-ray computed tomography (CT) to analyze the brain volume of 10 male patients with severe primary obsessive-compulsive disorder and 10 healthy male control subjects. Caudate nucleus volume in the patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder was significantly less than that of control subjects, but lenticular nuclei, third ventricle, and lateral ventricle volumes did not differ between these two groups, and no abnormal asymmetry of bilateral structures was detected. These findings support other evidence of involvement of the caudate nucleus in obsessive-compulsive disorder.
Substance P (SP) is an important neuropeptide that has been implicated in several physiological processes, and it is necessary to devise an analytical procedure to measure endogenous SP with a combination of high sensitivity and maximum molecular specificity. However, the unique chemical nature of SP (polarity, chemical stability, ease of oxidation, peptide bond lability) plays a significant role in its analysis, such as in receptor assays, immunoassays, chromatography, and mass spectrometry. In this study, we evaluated in polypropylene and glass assay tubes the effects on the recovery and stability of tritiated SP ([3H]SP) of several pertinent experimental parameters such as buffer, pH, multiple freeze-thaw cycles, and incubation temperature and time. Bovine serum albumin (BSA) effectively reduced the absorption of [3H]SP to polypropylene and glass tube surfaces. Following multiple (6X) freeze-thaw cycles of solutions in BSA-precoated tubes, the recovery of radioactive [3H]SP remained high (greater than 75%) after the last cycle, whereas recovery was minimal in uncoated or siliconized glass tubes. A high level of radioactivity recovery was maintained for 14 days of storage of [3H]SP in triethylamine formate (TEAF) solution in BSA-precoated tubes at 4 and -20 degrees C, but decreased at 37 degrees C to less than 80% in only 3 h. Following storage in Tris-HCl (pH 7.4) buffer, a combination of HPLC and mass spectrometric analyses revealed that a significant amount of peptide bond cleavage occurred to produce the two peptides ArgProLys (RPK) and ArgProLysProGlnGln (RPKPQQ), with only a small amount of remaining intact SP. That decomposition was not observed in triethylamine formate TEAF (pH 3.14) buffer solutions.
Longitudinal studies of subjects with autopsy-proven Alzheimer's disease in one skilled nursing home and of clinically diagnosed cases (NINCDS/ADRDA criteria) in three community cohorts are compared with regard to the annual rate of change in the error score of the Blessed information-memory-concentration test (IMC) in which the maximum number of errors possible is 33. The four cohorts differed significantly from each other in regard to age, education, sex, and the degree of dementia as measured by the initial IMC score. Subjects spanned the age range of 52 to 96 years and had 2 to 20 years of education. The rate of change in error score per year was similar whether the initial error score was 0 to 7, 8 to 15, or 16 to 23; however, the rate was reduced when the initial error score was 24 or above, due to a ceiling effect of the test. Among subjects with initial IMC scores less than 24, the annual rate of change varied considerably. However, the mean annual rate of change, 4.4 errors (SD +/- 3.6, SEM +/- 0.3) per year, was independent of residence in a nursing home, location of the study site, and of the patient's sex or education. Of particular importance was the finding that the rate of change in mental test score was independent of age. It can be concluded that the rate of cognitive deterioration in patients with Alzheimer's disease is quite variable among individuals and is independent of the patient's age and whether the patient resides in the community or in a nursing home.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Obsessive-compulsive disorder has recently been found to be associated with various biochemical markers; this has revived interest in its biological basis. Most of the work to date has concentrated on the neurotransmitters involved. In this presentation, evidence from electrophysiological, neuropsychological, scan, lesion, and psychosurgical studies are integrated to focus on a possible frontal dysfunction in this disorder.
Video-enhanced contrast, differential-interference contrast microscopy (VEC-DICM) was used to visualize the cytoarchitecture and subcellular neuronal structure of acute brain slices from rat hippocampus and amygdala. Even at low-power magnification, the VEC-DICM system vastly improved our ability to visualize and examine the gross organization of the tissue. With medium-power magnification, the neuronal somata and proximal dendrites were clearly visible. With high-power magnification, some of the subcellular details could be clearly discerned--including cell nuclei, cell nucleoli, fine dendritic processes, and varicosities that may be synaptic expansions. We conclude that improved optical techniques should be valuable to cellular neurobiologists interested in structure-function relationships in brain slices.

This study evaluated with electrophysiological and behavioral techniques the ability of rimcazole, a novel putative antipsychotic and selective sigma-receptor ligand, to antagonize the stimulation of the mesocorticolimbic dopamine system by the sigma-agonist, (+)SKF 10,047. Rimcazole effectively blocked the (+)SKF 10,047-induced excitation of ventral tegmental dopamine neurons while having no effect on either spontaneous activity or apomorphine-elicited slowing of A10 firing. Rimcazole also antagonized the behavioral hyperactivity produced by (+)SKF 10,047, but not by d-amphetamine which is also mediated through the same mesolimbic dopamine pathway. These data provide further evidence that rimcazole's novel pharmacologic profile may involve a blockade of sigma-receptors on mesocorticolimbic dopamine neurons.
The localization of calmodulin kinase II (CaM kinase) was studied in the retina by light and electron microscopic immunocytochemistry, and by enzymatic and immunoblot assay of cellular and subcellular tissue fractions. By light microscopy, both mono- and polyclonal antibodies revealed CaM kinase-like immunoreactivity in the inner and outer plexiform regions (synaptic layers), retinal pigment epithelium (RPE), and ganglion cells. The inner nuclear layer and photoreceptor outer segments stained much less intensely, and the outer nuclear layer did not stain. Electron microscopy confirmed the high concentration of immunoreactive protein in RPE and minimal outer segment staining. In addition, photoreceptor inner segments also contained CaM kinase-like immunoreactivity. Calcium and calmodulin stimulated phosphate incorporation into proteins of retinal cytosol and of isolated and cultured RPE. Calcium- and calmodulin-dependent kinase activity was present to a lesser degree in crude nuclei and synaptic membranes and was absent in isolated rod outer segments. Immunoblot analyses were consistent with enzymatic assays and immunocytochemistry. These data suggest that retinal CaM kinase is ideally located to play an important role in synaptic transmission and modulation of visual processes. Furthermore, its presence in RPE implies that CaM kinase may have a more ubiquitous role in regulating cellular processes than was previously recognized.
Changes in brain serotonin (5-HT) neurotransmission have been implicated in the mammalian response to stressful stimuli. The purpose of this study was to examine the extracellular single-unit activity of 5-HT neurons in cats exposed to three stressors: loud (100 dB) white noise, restraint, and confrontation with a dog. Serotonergic neurons were recorded in the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) and were identified by (i) slow and regular spontaneous activity, (ii) long duration (approximately 2 ms) waveform, (iii) complete suppression of activity during REM sleep and after systemic administration of 5-methoxy-N-N-dimethyltryptamine (250 micrograms/kg i.m.), and (iv) histological localization in the DRN. Despite behavioral and physiological evidence that all three manipulations induced a stress response, the maximal firing rate of 5-HT neurons was not significantly different from that observed under unstressed conditions. These data are consistent with previous studies from our laboratory which have indicated that very few manipulations are able to perturb the slow and regular activity of these neurons. In contrast, previous work has shown that the firing rate of noradrenergic neurons in the locus ceruleus is dramatically increased by these stressors. The relative imbalance in the activity of these two neuronal groups observed during stress may affect postsynaptic neuronal processing patterns and have adaptive significance during stressful conditions.
This work investigated the extent to which constituent proportions of fast- and slow-twitch muscle units determine whole muscle contractile properties. We employed several self- and cross-reinnervation models using synergistic homogeneous and heterogeneous muscles. By comparing the present data with previously published single-unit studies on the same animals, we confirmed that the whole muscle data provide a weighted ensemble of single-unit effects. They corroborate conclusions based upon single-unit data concerning the proportions of fast- and slow-twitch units, the degree of recovery, and the alteration of force- and speed-related properties of muscle by nerve. In particular, the shape of the whole muscle isometric twitch was a reliable indicator of the relative proportions of fast- and slow-twitch motor units in the muscle. The half-rise time was an indicator of the presence or absence of fast units, and the half-relaxation time was an indicator of the presence of slow units.
In order to examine the coexpression of different urotensins in the same caudal neurosecretory neurons, in situ hybridization with synthetic oligonucleotide probes specific for mRNAs for urotensins I, II-alpha, and II-gamma (UI, UII-alpha, and UII-gamma) was applied to the caudal neurosecretory system of the carp, Cyprinus carpio, together with immunohistochemistry. Almost all identifiable caudal neurosecretory neurons were labeled with the oligonucleotide and cDNA probes for UI mRNA. Further, any two of the probes for UI, UII-alpha, and UII-gamma mRNAs labeled the same neurons in serial sections. These results suggest that essentially all caudal neurosecretory neurons of the carp coexpress UI, UII-alpha, and UII-gamma. Although most neurons were densely labeled with oligonucleotide probes, only a small portion of the neurons were intensely immunoreactive. This suggests that most caudal neurosecretory neurons actively synthesize all three hormones, but that in some neurons, all or some of the hormones are rapidly transported to the urophysis, resulting in low or undetectable immunoreactivity in the perikarya.
To elucidate the source and physiological significance of plasma 3,4-dihydroxyphenylglycol (DHPG) and 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol (MHPG) as metabolites of noradrenaline (NA), unlabeled and tritium-labeled NA [( 3H]NA) were infused into conscious rats and the formation of labeled and unlabeled DHPG and MHPG examined. Animals were pretreated with clorgyline to determine the effects of inhibiting monoamine oxidase type A (MAO-A), with desipramine to determine the effects of blockade of NA neuronal uptake, or with reserpine to determine the effects of interference with vesicular translocation of NA. Inhibition of neuronal uptake prevented the formation of DHPG from exogenous NA and halved the formation of MHPG, indicating that DHPG is derived from NA metabolized intraneuronally and that MHPG is derived from NA metabolized extraneuronally and from DHPG produced intraneuronally. Blockade of vesicular translocation of NA with reserpine increased DHPG formation from exogenous NA by 300% and MHPG formation by 70%, consistent with enhanced availability of NA in the neuronal cytoplasm for metabolism by MAO-A. About 74% of NA recaptured by sympathetic nerves was estimated to be sequestered into storage vesicles. Endogenous DHPG and MHPG were derived mainly (60-70%) from leakage of NA from storage vesicles and to a smaller extent (30-40%) from NA recaptured after exocytotic release. An increased plasma DHPG to NA ratio with no change in the MHPG to NA ratio during infusions of physiologically active NA demonstrated that changes in plasma MHPG do not necessarily follow changes in DHPG. Consideration of the intra- and extraneuronal sources of plasma DHPG and MHPG, their main derivation from NA directly released into the neuronal cytoplasm and the influences of neuronal uptake and translocation of NA into storage vesicles is essential for the correct interpretation of plasma concentrations of these metabolites in the evaluation of sympathetic nervous function.
Systemic injection of the peptide hormone cholecystokinin (CCK) is known to inhibit food intake and gastric emptying, and to stimulate neurohypophyseal secretion of oxytocin (OT) in rats. Previous studies also have shown that surgical destruction of afferent fibers in the gastric vagus eliminates the inhibitory effects of CCK on food intake. The present experiments used capsaicin to destroy peripheral sensory fibers in rats, and confirmed the failure of CCK to inhibit food intake. Similarly, capsaicin pretreatment markedly attenuated the stimulatory effect of CCK on OT secretion and the inhibitory effect of CCK on gastric emptying in rats. These and other results suggest that in rats CCK acts on receptors located on afferent fibers in the gastric vagus and stimulates inhibition of gastric emptying predominantly via a vagovagal reflex arc through the brainstem.
Once thought to be hormone-synthesizing cells, the pituicytes are now known to be the resident astroglia of the neurohypophysis (also referred to here as the posterior pituitary). Early investigators interpreted light microscopic observations as demonstrating pituicyte secretion, since pituicytes appeared to contain neuro-secretory material when hormone demand was low and not when it was increased. Ultrastructural studies have shown that pituicytes actually engulf or completely surround neurosecretory axons and axonal endings under basal conditions, and release these neural processes when conditions require increased hormone output. Thus, the pituicytes appeared to the early workers to contain and release hormone when they actually contained and released axons and terminals in which the hormone was, in fact, contained. Dynamic interactions of pituicytes with various of the other elements in the gland have also been demonstrated. When hormone demand is low, the pituicytes not only engulf the neurosecretory processes but also interpose their own processes between the secretory endings and the basal lamina. Since any hormone that is secreted must pass through the basal lamina and into the perivascular spaces in order to enter the fenestrated capillaries, pituicyte interpositions form physical, and perhaps chemical, barriers to hormone entering the circulation. Increasing hormone demand results in retraction of pituicyte processes from the basal lamina, permitting increased neural contact. Studies of isolated neurohypophysis and of cultured adult rat pituicytes have shown that these glia undergo appropriate morphological changes in response to osmotic stimuli or to receptor-mediated activation of adenylate cyclase. Both these events are thought to be effectors of the alterations seen in vivo. Some possible mechanisms by which pituicytes may participate in the control of secretory events are discussed.
One of the goals in studying the electrical properties of neurosecretory cells is to relate their electrical activity to the process of secretion. A central question in these studies concerns the role of transmembrane calcium ion flux in the initiation of the secretory event. With regard to the secretory process in pituitary cells, several research groups have addressed this question in vitro using mixed primary anterior pituitary cell cultures or clonal cell lines derived from pituitary tumours. Other workers, including ourselves, have used homogeneous cell cultures derived from the pituitary intermediate lobes of rats to examine the characteristics of voltage-dependent conductances, the contribution of these conductances to action potentials and their role in stimulus-secretion coupling. Pars intermedia (PI) cells often fire spontaneous action potentials whose frequency can be modified by the injection of sustained currents through the recording electrode. In quiescent cells action potentials can also be evoked by the injection of depolarizing current stimuli. At around 20 degrees C these action potentials have a duration of about 5 ms. Although most of the inward current during action potentials is carried by sodium ions, a calcium ion component can be demonstrated under abnormal conditions. Voltage-clamp experiments have revealed that the membrane of these cells contains high-threshold, L-type, Ca2+ channels and low-threshold Ca2+ channels. Since hormone release from PI cells appears not to be dependent on action potential activity but does depend on external calcium ions, it is not clear what role these Ca2+ channels play in stimulus-secretion coupling in cells of the pituitary pars intermedia. One possibility is that the low-threshold Ca2+ channels are more important to the secretory process than the high-threshold channels.
In 1984 the student body at a midwestern medical school created an honor code and student honor council which supplemented the school's proctoring system. In consideration of recommending that the proctoring system be replaced by an honor system, the authors conducted a controlled experiment in which one trimester's behavioral science midterm and final examinations were unproctored and the midterm and final examinations in physiology and neuroscience were proctored. Using anonymous questionnaires, the authors discovered that significantly more students cheated and observed others cheating in behavioral science than in physiology or neuroscience examinations. Of 17 students who observed cheating, only two reported it, and they did so without providing the offenders' names.
Three experiments are reported that examine whether fast finger-tapping sequences are entirely planned before execution starts (advance planning), or if they can be started while planning is still under way (distributed planning). Subjects performed finger tapping sequences of three to eight taps at a high rate, under both simple and 2-choice reaction time (RT) conditions. The sequences differed in the location of an accentuated element within them. The RT to choose between sequences with different accent locations progressively decreased as an inverse function of the time-distance between the initial tap and the first point at which the alternative sequences differed. The shortening in choice reaction time (CRT) was never accompanied by noticeable changes in the inter-response times or force patterns of the tapping sequences. The RT to initiate sequences with accent location known beforehand (SRT condition) showed, in two of three experiments, a weak decreasing trend as the accentuated tap shifted away from the beginning of the sequence. The SRT results suggest a possible predominance of advance planning when the same sequence is repeated over a series of trials. The CRT results are taken as evidence that planning of the sequence beyond the unpredictable tap could be distributed before and after sequence initiation. Several factors are discussed that may influence the balance between planning in advance of, and planning in parallel with, sequence execution.
1. Pure tone thresholds were determined for five adult male ferrets before and after bilateral ablation of primary auditory cortex. Complete audiograms ranging from 0.016 to 48 kHz were obtained for two animals. The remaining three animals were tested at five frequencies selected to assess hearing throughout the audible range (0.125, 0.5, 2.0, 8.0, and 32.0 kHz). 2. Shortly after surgery one animal had elevated thresholds across the entire frequency range with the most pronounced hearing loss above 12.0 kHz. Four other animals had no elevation of thresholds at low and midrange frequencies but suffered a hearing loss at very high frequencies (32 kHz). 3. Repeated testing over a period of several months revealed substantial recovery of sensitivity. There was complete recovery of sensitivity in the low- and middle-frequency range of the audiogram. Some hearing loss persisted at the extreme upper end of the audiogram (32 kHz), but in two cases there was evidence of recovery at this frequency as well. 4. Following determination of absolute thresholds all animals were assessed for their ability to localize sound in space. Minimum audible angles were obtained on midline as well as within both left and right hemifields, i.e., around 0, -60 and +60 degrees azimuth. All animals had severe and persistent deficits in their ability to localize brief sounds within the lateral fields, but were still capable of midline localization.
1. The transformational properties of the network of hippocampal neurons activated monosynaptically and polysynaptically by electrical stimulation of the perforant path were analyzed using random impulse train and paired impulse stimuli. In response to both types of input, the amplitudes of granule cell population spikes evoked in the dentate gyrus were used as the measure of network output. The random stimulus train consisted of a series of 4,064 electrical impulses, with interimpulse intervals determined by a Poisson distribution; the mean interimpulse interval of the train was 500 ms, and the range was 1-5,000 ms. Paired impulse stimuli consisted of pairs of impulses separated by 10-1,200 ms; impulses pairs were delivered once every 20 s. The procedures were applied to both anesthetized and chronically implanted, unanesthetized preparations. 2. Nonlinear systems analysis of population spike responses evoked during random train stimulation revealed that dentate granule cell output to any impulse was highly dependent on the interval since a prior impulse. Data from anesthetized animals showed that population spike amplitudes were markedly suppressed in response to intervals less than 50 ms, facilitated in response to intervals of approximately 100 ms, suppressed slightly in response to intervals of 300-700 ms, and unaffected by intervals greater than 700 ms. Data from unanesthetized animals showed similar results except that facilitation rather than suppression of spike amplitude was observed in response to intervals of 300-700 ms, and could extend to intervals as great as 1,000 ms. 3. The results of paired impulse stimulation applied to the same preparations also showed that granule cell response was highly dependent on interimpulse interval. However, nonlinearities observed with paired impulse stimulation differed from those revealed by a random impulse signal. Compared to results of random train stimulation, a paired impulse format produced greater magnitude spike suppression in response to short interimpulse intervals (e.g., 10-20 ms), maximum facilitation in response to shorter interstimulus intervals (50 ms rather than 100 ms), greater magnitude spike facilitation, and greater suppression in response to intervals greater than or equal to 300 ms. Furthermore, there were virtually no differences in the nonlinearities of granule cell response recorded from anesthetized and unanesthetized animals when a paired impulse format was used, whereas several differences were observed with random train stimuli. 4.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. Nonlinear systems analytic techniques were used to characterize transformational properties of the network of neurons activated by perforant path input to the rabbit hippocampus. Trains of 4,064 impulses with randomly varying interimpulse intervals were used to stimulate perforant path fibers, and amplitudes of evoked dentate granule cell population spikes were measured. Interimpulse intervals of the random stimulus train were determined by a Poisson distribution with a mean interimpulse interval of 500 ms, and with intervals ranging from 1 to 5,000 ms. The response of dentate granule cells to this stimulation was assumed to reflect activity in the larger hippocampal network, because other subpopulations of neurons activated monosynaptically and polysynaptically within the hippocampal formation contribute to granule cell excitability through multiple feedforward and feedback pathways. System properties were characterized both for halothane anesthetized and chronically implanted, unanesthetized preparations. 2. Second-order kernel analysis showed that population spike amplitude was highly dependent on interimpulse interval. When population spikes of all latencies were included in the same analysis, stimulation impulses produced near-total suppression of spike amplitude when they were preceded 10-20 ms by another impulse in the train. Spike suppression extended to approximately 50 ms and was inversely related to length of the interimpulse interval. Suppression of granule cell response to intervals within the range of 10-50 ms was not influenced by halothane anesthesia. 3. Interstimulus intervals greater than approximately 50 ms resulted in a facilitation of population spike amplitude, with maximum facilitation occurring in response to intervals of 90-100 ms. The magnitude of maximum facilitation was significantly greater for anesthetized (129%) than for unanesthetized (74%) preparations. The range of intervals resulting in facilitation for unanesthetized animals could extend to 1,000-1,100 ms (average range, 61-714 ms). This was much greater than observed for population spikes recorded from anesthetized animals (50-364 ms), which exhibited suppression in response to intervals of approximately 300-700 ms. 4. Further analysis revealed that the nature of nonlinearities in population spike amplitude may depend on spike latency. For example, population spikes of &quot;short&quot; latency (3-4 or 4-5 ms, depending on the animal) exhibited only facilitation in response to interstimulus intervals of 1-4 ms.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. Nonlinear systems analytic procedures, based on an orthogonalized functional power series approach, were developed for study of the transformational properties of the hippocampal formation. As a testing stimulus, the procedures utilize a train of electrical impulses with randomly varying interimpulse intervals. The specific case was considered of applying such a stimulus to the perforant path, a major afferent to the hippocampal dentate gyrus that arises from the entorhinal cortex. Resulting field potentials evoked within the dentate gyrus are recorded to all impulses in the train. Computational algorithms based on cross-correlations determine the relationship between the interimpulse interval within the random train and amplitude of the evoked dentate potentials. The calculations, which reduce to averaging procedures, were derived for first- and second-order terms, or kernels, of the orthogonalized functional power series. 2. It is proposed that such an approach can be applied to a single component of the complex field potential evoked in the dentate gyrus. This component, the population spike, reflects the action potential discharge of dentate granule cells. Thus, a field potential component for which the underlying neuronal generator is well-known can be analyzed with respect to the transformational characteristics of the network of neurons that influence that generator. Other components of the complex field potential produced by other generators can be ignored. It is shown that this adaptation has the effect of greatly simplifying both the computation and presentation of kernels. 3. As a further consequence of this adaptation, the resulting first- and second-order kernels were shown to have specific interpretations. The first-order kernel represents the average response of the orthodromically driven granule cells to the set of stimuli comprising the random impulse train. The second-order kernel quantitatively characterizes the nonlinearity of the granule cell response, and may be interpreted as a generalized recovery function; i.e., the first input of any pair of stimuli in the train activates the newtork, and the second input tests the modulatory influence of the network excited by the initial input. 4. Most past investigations of nonlinearities of the perforant path-dentate projection have utilized pairs of stimulus impulses. We show here that, for a second-order system, the expected results from paired impulse experiments may be predicted from second-order kernels. Disagreement between the measured and predicted results reflects interactions of a higher order, and thus, greater system complexity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. Eye movements were observed following an injection of picrotoxin, a GABA antagonist, into the vitreous of one eye. A spontaneous nystagmus was observed in cats, rabbits, and turtles, even in total darkness, with slow-phase eye movements in the temporal-to-nasal direction for the injected eye. 2. During visual stimulation by a horizontal drifting pattern, injected eyes moved in the temporal-to-nasal direction, irrespective of stimulus direction. In cats, however, the nystagmus was usually slower when the injected eye viewed nasal-to-temporal motion (opposite to the direction of the spontaneous nystagmus). The spontaneous nystagmus could be halted or even reversed by allowing cats to view motion opposite to the direction of the nystagmus with the uninjected eye alone. The nystagmus could not be overridden in this fashion in rabbits or turtles. 3. The nystagmus induced by picrotoxin could also be modified by vestibular stimulation. When cats were placed on their sides, the spontaneous horizontal nystagmus often decreased and spontaneous vertical nystagmus with upward slow phase movements occurred. During sinusoidal horizontal vestibular stimulation, the horizontal nystagmus due to picrotoxin added to the vestibuloocular reflex as a velocity offset in the temporal-to-nasal direction. 4. Following bilateral ablation of the cat visual cortex, picrotoxin's effect became even more pronounced than before the ablation. Therefore, at least some picrotoxin-sensitive cells can use subcortical pathways, perhaps to the accessory optic nuclei. The visual cortex, which also processes directional information, may be able to compensate for changes in retinal processing induced by picrotoxin in intact animals. 5. This study demonstrates the importance of retinal GABA in the control of eye stability. As GABA is known to be responsible for null direction inhibition of directionally sensitive retinal ganglion cells, these results suggest that the output of these cells may be critical for the normal functioning of central optokinetic pathways, even in the absence of visual cortex.
Previous reports have demonstrated powerful neuromodulatory actions of the molluscan tetrapeptide FMRFamide in both the central and peripheral nervous systems of the freshwater snail Helisoma. The present study was designed to examine both the nature of the FMRFamide-like peptides in Helisoma and to define their physiological actions at a peripheral synapse. We report that, as determined by HPLC/RIA and mass spectrometry, Helisoma contains both FMRFamide and 2 of its analogs, FLRFamide and GDPFLRFamide. Whereas whole animals contain about 100 pmol/gm of these peptides, they were enriched in the nervous system (3000 pmol/gm) and in a peripheral target organ, the salivary glands (500 pmol/gm). For histochemical and physiological studies we examined the salivary glands, which are known to be innervated by neuron 4 of the buccal ganglion. We confirmed the presence of FMRFamide-like fibers on the salivary gland by immunohistochemistry using a polyclonal antiserum. These fibers appear to be largely derived from somata located in the central ring ganglia. For physiological tests we examined the neuron 4-gland synapse, at which presynaptic action potentials normally evoke a suprathreshold EPSP in gland cells. Bath application of FMRFamide, FLRFamide, or GDPFLRFamide at micromolar concentration to a buccal ganglia/salivary gland preparation completely suppressed spontaneous rhythmic activity. The sites of action of these peptides were examined by iontophoretic application of FMRFamide to neuron 4 or the salivary gland. Application of the peptide to the soma of neuron 4 caused a hyperpolarization that suppressed spontaneously generated action potentials. When applied to the salivary gland, FMRFamide caused a hyperpolarization that reduced the EPSPs evoked by neuron 4 to below spike threshold. The latter observation implies a postsynaptic locus of action for FMRFamide, and this possibility was tested by direct depolarization of the gland with iontophoresis of ACh (the putative transmitter of neuron 4). Such depolarizations were also reduced by FMRFamide. We conclude that Helisoma contains FMRFamide and 2 of its analogs, these peptides being enriched in the nervous system and salivary glands. Furthermore, these peptides can suppress activation of the salivary glands by actions both directly on gland cells and on the effector neuron.
Protein IIIa (Mr approximately 74,000) and protein IIIb (Mr approximately 55,000), referred to collectively as protein III, are synaptic vesicle-associated phosphoproteins found in all regions of the rat nervous system and in the rat adrenal medulla. In the present study, the presence of protein III and the regulation of its phosphorylation were examined in chromaffin cells isolated from bovine adrenal medullae. Protein III was present in chromaffin cells isolated and purified from bovine adrenal medullae. The levels of protein III were moderately enriched in purified chromaffin cells compared with whole adrenal medullae. Preincubation of chromaffin cells with 32PO4 led to the endogenous phosphorylation of protein III, and phosphopeptide maps of chromaffin cell protein III were similar to those of protein III from bovine cerebral cortex. Treatment of the chromaffin cells with ACh produced calcium-dependent increases in both the phosphorylation of protein III and the release of 3H-norepinephrine. These effects of ACh were mimicked by nicotine but not by muscarine. Other secretagogues (elevated K+, veratridine, Ba2+) also increased both the phosphorylation of protein III and the release of 3H-norepinephrine. However, detailed characterization of the secretagogue-induced increases in protein III phosphorylation and 3H-norepinephrine secretion suggested that protein III phosphorylation was more directly associated with an increase in intracellular calcium than with secretion per se.
We describe unique, high-affinity binding sites for omega[125I]conotoxin GVIA in membranes from rat brain and rabbit sympathetic ganglia which appear to be primarily associated with N-type voltage-dependent calcium channels. The dissociation constant (KD) for the toxin in rat brain membranes is 60 pM. Physiologic extracellular concentrations of calcium inhibit toxin binding noncompetitively (IC50 = 0.2 mM). The regional distribution of the binding sites in rat brain differs markedly from that of dihydropyridine calcium antagonist receptors associated with L-type calcium channels. In detergent-solubilized brain membranes, toxin binding retains the same affinity, specificity, and ionic sensitivity as in particulate preparations.
The present study evaluates protein synthesis in rat hippocampal slices maintained in vitro. Transverse slices of hippocampus were prepared from both adult rats and rat pups during postnatal development and incubated in a gassed (95% O2/5% CO2) balanced salt medium containing 5 nM 3H-leucine. The time course of 3H-leucine incorporation into TCA-precipitable protein was determined using slices removed from the media after 5, 10, 20, 30, 40, 60, and 120 min of incubation. The pattern of 3H-amino acid incorporation was evaluated by fixing slices with paraformaldehyde, embedding the slices in plastic, and sectioning the slices end on and en face for autoradiographic analysis. Biochemical analysis of 300 and 400 micron slices revealed that incorporation of leucine into protein proceeds at a constant rate. The autoradiographic analysis revealed that in adult hippocampal slices of 300-600 micron thickness there was complete penetration of 3H-leucine with no indication of a gradient in the extent of incorporation throughout the slice. The pattern of grain density within 300-600 micron slices matches that previously reported after in vivo injections of radiolabeled amino acid, where grain density is highest over neuronal cell bodies and lower over the laminae that contain dendritic processes and axons (Phillips et al: Mol Brain Res 2:251-261, 1987). Hippocampal slices of 200, 800, and 1,000 micron thickness showed irregular labeling. Slices of 200 micron were filled with pyknotic nuclei and vacuoles and exhibited patchy labeling. In 800 micron slices there were isolated areas of good preservation within the slice core, but these areas exhibited little incorporation. Relative to the 300-600 micron slices, there was a higher number of pyknotic nuclei and a much deeper layer of necrosis along the cut edges. Slices of 1,000 micron thickness showed poor preservation throughout and low levels of incorporation. Biochemical studies revealed a much higher rate of incorporation in the slices prepared from postnatal animals. Autoradiography of the slices from developing rats revealed that penetration was excellent and incorporation appeared to be greater as judged by an overall higher grain density. We believe that rat hippocampal slices provide a good in vitro model of protein metabolism that will be useful for studies of protein synthesis in isolated cell body and dendritic laminae and for the evaluation of whether protein synthesis in particular laminae is regulated by synaptic activity.
When observers dichoptically view bar stimuli at disparities beyond the fusion limit, the bars are perceived as being closer together than they really are. When 6.0-cycle/deg vertical derivative-of-Gaussian bars are adjusted into apparent alignment with binocularly presented spots, the mislocalization of each bar's half-image is typically 2-5 arcmin for disparities below 60 arcmin. The effect does not generalize to an additional monocular probe bar at more-eccentric locations, thus excluding reflex vergence eye movements as an explanation. Instead, the results indicate a process of interocular matching that seeks to attribute similar directions as well as depths to matching half-images.
(-)-Cocaine inhibits M2 muscarinic cholinergic binding measured with [3H]quinuclidinyl benzilate in heart and brain with a Ki of 18.8 microM. The cyclic nucleotide 5'-guanylylimidodiphosphate does not shift the competition curve, suggesting that (-)-cocaine is an antagonist. (-)-Cocaine also reverses the methacholine-induced inhibition of guinea pig atrial contractions at a similar concentration. Although (+)-cocaine is about 8-fold more potent than (-)-cocaine, (+)-cocaine is not present in extracts of the coca plant. Of the many compounds tested, only (-)-cocaine and lidocaine have a higher affinity at M2 muscarinic receptors than at M1 receptors; other compounds such as (+)-cocaine, norcocaine, procaine and dimethocaine are equipotent at the M1 and M2 subtypes. These results indicate that cocaine can act as an antimuscarinic agent, particularly at higher, toxic doses.
The kappa opioid agonist dynorphin A (Dyn A) (1-13) produced dose-related neurological deficits after subarachnoid injection in the lumbar spinal cords of rats. Whereas the neurological dysfunctions produced by low doses of Dyn A (1-13) were transient, higher doses caused persistent deficits, characterized by motor and nociceptive impairment in hindlimbs and tail, hindlimb edema, priapism, bladder infarction and atony and urinary incontinence. These deficits appeared to result from nonopioid actions of Dyn A (1-13), as they were: 1) not blocked by the opioid antagonists naloxone or WIN 44,441-3; 2) shared by Dyn A (3-13), which lacks opioid activity; and 3) not produced or altered by the selective kappa opioid agonist U 50,488. Coinjection of a combination of peptidase inhibitors, shown previously to enhance the actions of Dyn A fragments in vitro, significantly increased the paralytic actions of Dyn A (1-13). The peptidase inhibitors did not by themselves cause neurological dysfunction, and they did not alter the paralytic potency of the peptidase-resistant delta opioid antagonist ICI 174864. These findings indicate that Dyn A effects were: 1) limited appreciably by its rapid enzymatic degradation after injection and 2) most likely the result of actions of the intact peptide rather than proteolytic products generated after injection. Neuroanatomical evaluations revealed extensive neuronal and axonal injury in the lumbosacral spinal cords of rats injected with 25 nmol of Dyn A (1-13). Collectively, these results indicate that Dyn A (1-13) acts through nonopioid mechanisms to cause the injury and death of neurons involved in diverse spinal cord functions.
In rats, the spinal subarachnoid injection of the kappa opioid agonist Dynorphin A (Dyn A)(1-13) and the delta opioid receptor antagonist ICI 174864 produced dose-related flaccid paralysis of hindlimbs and tail that were influenced appreciably by injection procedures. When injected through indwelling intrathecal (i.t.) catheters terminating at L1 to L2, both peptides were significantly more potent producing paralysis 1 day, rather than 10 to 14 days, after i.t. catheterization. Other rats received direct subarachnoid injections of these peptides through 30-gauge needles placed in the L4 to L5 intervertebral space. In naive, uncatheterized and acutely catheterized rats, direct intervertebral injection of these peptides, as well as D-Ala2-Dyn A (1-13) amide (a metabolically stable analog of Dyn A (1-13), produced hindlimb paralysis with potencies comparable to those recorded after injections through acutely implanted catheters. In contrast, chronically catheterized rats showed significantly reduced responsivity to direct intervertebral injections of all three of these peptides. Loss of hindlimb motor function was associated with loss of nociceptive responsiveness. Elevations in tail-flick latencies were only seen with doses of Dyn A (1-13) which produced motor dysfunction, and were not blocked or reversed by high doses of the opioid antagonist naloxone. These results indicate that: 1) indwelling i.t. catheters induce spinal cord alterations which complicate their experimental usefulness, 2) Dyn A (1-13) does not alter responsiveness to thermal nociceptive stimuli through opioid mechanism and 3) Dyn A (1-13) causes parallel disruptions of spinal cord motor and nociceptive function.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
C6-2B rat astrocytoma cells were used to test whether the increase of cellular nerve growth factor (NGF) content and secretion induced by isoproterenol treatment are associated with an increase in the content of mRNA that encodes NGF (NGF mRNA). Incubation of cells with isoproterenol (10 microM) for different time periods produced an increase of NGF mRNA content (3- to 5-fold over control) reaching maximum levels at 3 hr and lasting up to 24 hr. The isoproterenol effect on NGF mRNA was antagonized by the beta adrenergic receptor antagonist I-propranolol (10 microM) but not by phentolamine (10 microM), an alpha adrenergic receptor antagonist. When C6-2B astrocytoma cells were exposed for a short time to isoproterenol (10 microM; 10 or 20 min) followed by a washout period of 3 hr, the NGF mRNA content was increased by about 2-fold. The increase of NGF mRNA was obtained also with 10 microM prostaglandin E1 and this effect was potentiated by 100 microM of 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine. Inasmuch as both isoproterenol and prostaglandin E1 increase cyclic AMP content, one can surmise that cyclic AMP is involved in the stimulation of NGF mRNA accumulation. Whether cyclic AMP directly activates NGF gene transcription or activates an intermediate step, however, cannot be assessed by the present experiments.
1. The activity of the two classes of motoneurones, primary and secondary, which innervate myotomal muscle fibres in the zebra fish, was monitored with electromyographic and intracellular techniques. 2. Simultaneous EMG and intracellular recordings from muscle fibres showed that the activity of the two motor systems and of individual primary motoneurones can be distinguished by recording EMG spikes during swimming. 3. Measurements of EMG spikes demonstrated that primary and secondary motoneurones are co-ordinately activated over a wide range of conditions during normal swimming. 4. During swimming the primary motoneurones within a given segment are usually co-activated although they sometimes fire independently. 5. When different primary motoneurones within a given segment are co-activated, they fire nearly synchronously. 6. We conclude that the primary motoneurones are used principally, although not exclusively, during fast swimming, struggling and the startle response, whereas secondary motoneurones function primarily during slower swimming.
Seven monozygotic (MZ) and six dizygotic (DZ) twin pairs with febrile convulsions (FC) in the general population were studied. The pairwise concordance rate for FC in MZ 85.7% (6/7) was higher than that in DZ 16.7% (1/6). In a discordant MZ pair, the unaffected co-twin was attacked by epileptic seizures later. Between the concordant DZ twins, the clinical symptoms and EEGs differed in quality. According to the ratio of concordance rate in MZ to that in DZ 5.1, a multifactorial mode of inheritance for FC was suspected.
In a previous report, mitochondria were proposed as a subcellular structure where recognition sites for peripheral benzodiazepine ligands are located in adrenal glands. The present study examines the subcellular distribution of specific binding sites for PK 11195 in eight tissues and compares the relative densities of these binding sites in mitochondrial-enriched fractions with the relative activities of two mitochondrial marker enzymes. In all eight tissues examined, PK 11195 binding sites were found to subfractionate in a manner nearly identical to that of the mitochondrial enzyme succinate dehydrogenase. The subcellular distribution patterns of specific PK 11195 binding sites were unrelated to the distribution patterns of marker enzymes for plasma membranes, lysosomes, or endoplasmic reticulum. Scatchard analyses of mitochondrial fractions from all eight tissues demonstrated a greater than 100-fold difference in the densities of PK 11195 binding sites, the extremes being 140 and 1 pmol/mg of protein in adrenal and brain tissues, respectively. There was no correlation between the relative density of PK 11195 binding sites and the specific activities of succinate dehydrogenase and cytochrome c oxidase. These results suggest that the density of peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptors in mitochondria is tissue dependent and apparently regulated independently of the mechanisms by which these two mitochondrial enzymes are expressed or function. The photoaffinity probe PK 14105 was used to photolabel the peripheral-type benzodiazepine binding sites of mitochondrial fractions prepared from the eight tissues. In all preparations, a 17,000-Da polypeptide is specifically labeled as determined by electrophoresis in sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gels. Thus, it appears that the protein recognition site for isoquinoline carboxamides of peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptor complexes is similar in all mitochondrial preparations.
Rats exhibit morphological, biochemical, and metabolic changes in their brains, as well as cognitive deficits, with aging. Aged rats were found to be significantly impaired compared to young rats in a water maze task and test of motor coordination, and show reduced locomotor activity and exploration. Although aged rats did exhibit deficits as a group, not all aged rats were impaired. Additionally, the subgroup that was impaired on one task was not necessarily the subgroup that was impaired on another task. The cholinergic projection neurons in the basal forebrain region were significantly atrophied in the aged rodent. The degree of atrophy was highly correlated with the cognitive impairment exhibited on the Morris water maze task. Swollen choline acetyltransferase (ChAT)-positive &quot;plaque-like&quot; structures were observed in the neocortex of the aged but not the young rats. Declines in cholinergic activity in the brain has also been observed during aging. Biochemical measurements of ChAT in the basal forebrain region of aged rats revealed small but consistent decreases in ChAT activity compared to young rats. General metabolic activity, measured by the 2-deoxyglucose method, was also decreased in the hippocampal CA1 and CA3 fields, the dentate gyrus, the medial septal-diagonal band area, and the prefrontal cortex of aged rats. There was a significant correlation between the decrease in glucose utilization and deficits on the Morris water maze. Most aged rats exhibit pathological EEG patterns as reflected by frequent long-duration high voltage neocortical spindles (HVS) during immobility. Bilateral lesions of the nucleus basalis and scopolamine treatment increased the incidence of HVS, thereby mimicking changes in the aged brain. We attempted to ameliorate the cognitive deficits observed in subgroups or impaired rats by either: (1) implanting fetal cells of basal forebrain origin into the hippocampus, or (2) infusing nerve growth factor (NGF) chronically into the lateral ventricle. The grafts appeared to facilitate an improvement in the ability of the impaired aged rats to perform in the Morris water maze. This improved performance was reversed by injections of atropine at doses that did not affect the behavior of young animals that performed well in the same task. These results suggest that enhancement of the cholinergic system could have an effect on the performance of the impaired aged animals. The study of the effects of infusions of NGF clearly demonstrate that the ability of impaired aged rats to remember what they had previously learned was increased after NGF treatment.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Two experimental models for studying age-related changes in associative learning are described. One involves classical (Pavlovian) conditioning of eyeblink and heart rate in the rabbit. The second involves Pavlovian leg flexion and heart rate conditioning in the rat. Advantages and disadvantages of each model are discussed. Results with both models suggest differential effects of aging on acquisition of autonomic and somatomotor responses, thus underlining the utility of assessing multiple response systems to adequately characterize age-related changes in learning and memory.

The medical records of 229 consecutive patients with supratentorial malignant gliomas were reviewed with respect to histology, age at diagnosis, tumor location, and enhancement pattern on the CT obtained after the administration of contrast material at the time of operation. Nonenhancing tumors were identified in four (4%) of 93 patients with glioblastoma multiforme (GM), three (30%) of ten with gemistocytic astrocytoma (GA), 23 (31%) of 74 with highly anaplastic astrocytoma (HAA), and 28 (54%) of 52 with moderately anaplastic astrocytoma (MoAA). The age-related incidence of the various glioma histiotypes (both enhancing and nonenhancing) was reflected by the median age at diagnosis: 50 years in GM, 52 years in GA, 40 years in HAA, and 34 years in MoAA. The age and CT contrast enhancement pattern were similar in patients with GM, GA, and MoAA; patients with nonenhancing HAAs tended to be younger at presentation. The tumor location and the frequency of enhancing and nonenhancing lesions were similar for all groups except MoAA, in which nonenhancing tumors were most often frontotemporal and enhancing tumors were usually frontoparietal. Our results demonstrate that it is important to obtain histologic confirmation of the diagnosis in patients with supratentorial gliomas regardless of the presence or absence of contrast enhancement of the tumor on CT, because neither of these characteristics correlates with the tumor histology.
Neural crest cells of vertebrate embryos produce neurons, glia, pigment cells, and connective tissue in vivo and in vitro. To test the developmental potential of apparently undifferentiated crest cells, we have used the monoclonal antibody A2B5, which recognizes a cell surface glycolipid characteristic of neurons, to identify and immunoablate a subpopulation of cultured avian neural crest cells with a neuronal phenotype. Our results indicate that a limited neurogenic precursor subpopulation is present in cultures of avian neural crest cells and that the fate of this subpopulation can be influenced by environmental conditions arising when dispersal of neural crest cells is delayed.

The ontogeny of the calcitonin gene-related peptide in the neuron system of the rat brain stem was investigated by means of the indirect immunofluorescence technique. Calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactivity was first detected in the fibers of the nucleus of spinal tract trigeminal nerve on gestational day 18, and thereafter appeared gradually in various brain stem areas such as in the fibers of the solitary tract, gracile nucleus, cuneate nucleus, inferior colliculus, superior colliculus, medial geniculate nucleus and in the neurons of the hypoglossal nucleus, facial nucleus, superior olive, parabrachial area, superior colliculus and peripeduncular nucleus. In colchicine-untreated animals, the immunoreactive fibers increased in number and reached adult level by postnatal day 14, whereas the number of cells reached a maximum between postnatal days 2 and 6 and then decreased in number and immunoreactivity or disappeared, except in some areas such as the superior olive and peripeduncular nucleus, which showed the same immunoreactivity as for adult animals. With colchicine treatment, calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactive cells were found in more areas of the brain stem such as the abducens nucleus, parabigeminal nucleus, principal oculomotor nucleus, trochlear nucleus and central gray, along with the nuclei which had shown calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactivity in the untreated animals. However, the neurons in the inferior olive showed a different ontogenetical pattern of calcitonin gene-related peptide of immunoreactivity. Immunoreactivity disappeared completely by postnatal day 21 in both colchicine-untreated and -treated animals.
Immunohistochemical staining patterns of two monoclonal antibodies produced against the rabbit olfactory bulb were studied in adult rabbit olfactory structures. One monoclonal antibody 112D5 (monoclonal antibody 2D5) stained all of the olfactory receptor cells, whereas the other 114G12 (monoclonal antibody 4G12) stained the upper two-thirds to three-fourths of the receptor cell layer. The negative region in the receptor cell layer was designated the deep compartment. Neither monoclonal antibody stained the supporting cells, basal cells, or Bowman's glands. Monoclonal antibody 2D5 stained the olfactory nerve layer and glomeruli in the olfactory bulb, whereas monoclonal antibody 4G12 stained the whole of the olfactory bulb, particularly the glomeruli and the mitral cells. The piriform cortex was unstained by monoclonal antibody 2D5 whereas the highest immunoreaction to monoclonal antibody 4G12 was in layer Ia. Immunoblot analysis revealed that the molecular weight values of monoclonal antibody 4G12 antigens in the olfactory epithelium were approx. 26,000. Thus, monoclonal antibody 4G12, specific to neurons, recognized an epitope different from the olfactory marker protein specific to the olfactory receptor neurons.
Projections from several brainstem serotonergic nuclei to the nucleus tractus solitarii were investigated in the rat. Experiments were performed using a double labeling method combining retrograde radioautographic tracing and serotonin immunohistochemistry. After injection of the radioactive tracer ([3H] wheat germ agglutinin) into the lateral nucleus tractus solitarii, nerve cell bodies exhibiting both radioautographic labeling and immunostaining were detected in all the serotonergic nuclei investigated, namely the nucleus raphe magnus, the ventromedial paragigantocellular nucleus, the nuclei raphe pontis, medianus and dorsalis, the medial lemniscus and the reticulotegmental nucleus of the pons. Most of the double labeled perikarya observed were in the nucleus raphe magnus, the adjacent part of the paragigantocellular nucleus and the nucleus raphe dorsalis. Nerve cell bodies retrogradely labeled but devoid of immunostaining were also observed, together with the double labeled perikarya, within serotonergic nuclei. These results provide direct evidence that brainstem serotonergic neurons contribute to the innervation of the nucleus tractus solitarii. They indicate that the nucleus raphe magnus and the nucleus raphe dorsalis constitute two major sources of central serotonergic projections to the nucleus tractus solitarii.
Afferent and efferent connections of the hypothalamic and mesencephalic locomotor regions and also the bulbar locomotor strip were studied in cat using retrograde (horseradish peroxidase) transport technique. To study the sources of afferent projections, the enzyme microinjections were performed exactly into the same brain sites eliciting treadmill locomotion by means of electrical stimulation. When studying efferent projections horseradish peroxidase labeled neurons were revealed within locomotor regions after enzyme microinjections into different brain structures. Experimental data have shown that the hypothalamic and mesencephalic locomotor regions have mutual afferent and efferent projections with numerous brain areas including interconnections. Apart from the entopeduncular nucleus, the great number of different sensory nuclei are noted: among the sources of afferent projections are the nucleus tractus spinalis nervi trigemini, nucleus cuneatus, nucleus tractus solitarius and vestibular nuclei. In addition, after horseradish peroxidase injection into the mesencephalic locomotor region labeled neurons were found in the cochlear nuclei. Direct descending neuronal projections of the hypothalamic and mesencephalic locomotor regions are distributed mainly in the ipsilateral brainstem. Only a few of them reach the lumbar spinal cord. The most marked efferent projections of given regions are those to the brainstem reticular formation. After horseradish peroxidase injection into a functionally identified bulbar locomotor strip, labeled neurons were revealed in different stem regions mainly caudal to the enzyme injection site. The existence of a locomotor strip as an independent structural formation is called into question. When studying the locomotor region connections, the structural heterogeneity of these regions is revealed. Transitory fibers of ascending tracts are presumably within their limits side by side with neurons. The role of these fibers in stepping initiation by electrical stimulation of locomotor regions remains uncertain.
New sites in the brainstem eliciting treadmill locomotion have been revealed in decerebrated cats by electrical stimulation. These are the cochlear nuclei, cuneate nucleus, spinocerebellar tracts, and substantia grisea centralis at the level of red nuclei which lie outside the known locomotor regions. Participation of neurons and fibers forming ascending sensory tracts (medial and lateral lemniscus) is of special interest in initiation of locomotion. Collaterals of these tracts pass through the hypothalamic and mesencephalic locomotor regions and may contribute largely to initiation of locomotor generators. Hypotheses about the leading role of non-specific afferent activation of the brainstem reticular formation in initiation of locomotion are put forward.
The connections between nuclei of the septum-diagonal band complex and the clusters of histaminergic neurons in the posterior hypothalamic region were studied with a dual-labeling procedure in which anterograde neuroanatomical tracing with Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin was combined with immunohistochemistry of histidine decarboxylase. Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin was injected in the medial and lateral septal nuclei, and in various parts of the nuclei of the diagonal band of Broca. The fibers arising from the medial and lateral septal nuclei traverse the vertical limb of the diagonal band and, in part, join the medial forebrain bundle in the preoptic area. Other fibers descend diffusely through the lateral hypothalamus to the posterior hypothalamus, or course in a bundle of fibers ensheathing the fornix. The nuclei of the diagonal band project via the medial forebrain bundle and the diffuse pathway to the posterior hypothalamic region. All the nuclei of the septum-diagonal band complex, with the exception of the medial and lateral parts of the nucleus of the horizontal limb of the diagonal band, project to clusters of histaminergic neurons. These projections exhibit the following arrangement: along the axis lateral septal nucleus-medial septal nucleus-vertical limb of the diagonal band-medial part of the horizontal limb of the diagonal band, the septohypothalamic fibers decrease in density and distribute to fewer clusters of histaminergic neurons. Varicosities on the labeled fibers are formed in close proximity to the cell bodies and dendrites of the histaminergic neurons.
The neurotensin-containing projections from the retrosplenial cortex to the anterior ventral thalamus were demonstrated by electrolytic lesion studies and fluorescent retrograde tracing combined with immunocytochemistry. Three-to-five-day-old rats were used, because the immunoreactivity of neurotensin fibers in anterior ventral thalamus was the highest at this age. When neurotensin-containing neurons located in layer VI of the retrosplenial cortex were unilaterally destroyed by applying an electrolytic current to the retrosplenial area, the neurotensin fibers in the ipsilateral anterior ventral thalamus decreased dramatically. Unilateral injection of a fluorescent retrograde tracer, Fast Blue, into the anterior ventral thalamus, labeled neurons in the ipsilateral retrosplenial cortex, and many of these cells also had neurotensin-like immunoreactivity. These results suggested that a major origin of the neurotensin fibers in the anterior ventral thalamus was in the ipsilateral retrosplenial granular cortex.
The effect of an antidepressant drug--imipramine--on the nuclear volume of the rat brain neurons was studied. Imipramine was administered per os, 10 mg/kg acutely or chronically (twice a day, for 14 days). A reduction in the nuclear volume was observed after chronic treatment in neurons of the locus coeruleus and cingular cortex, but not in the hippocampus. The diminution in the nuclear volume of the affected cells suggests a decrease in their activity.
The effects of a hippocampal mossy fiber lesion have been determined on neuronal degeneration and limbic seizures provoked by the subsequent intracerebroventricular administration of kainic acid to unanesthetized rats. Mossy fiber lesions were made either by transecting this pathway unilaterally or by destroying the dentate granule cells unilaterally or bilaterally with colchicine. All control rats eventually developed status epilepticus and each temporally discrete seizure that preceded status epilepticus was recorded from the hippocampus ipsilateral to the kainic acid infusion before the contralateral hippocampus. A mossy fiber lesion of the ipsilateral hippocampus prevented the development of status epilepticus in 26% of subjects and in 52% of subjects seizures were recorded from the contralateral hippocampus before the ipsilateral hippocampus. Unlike electrographic records from other treatment groups, those from rats which had received a bilateral colchicine lesion exhibited no consistent pattern indicative of seizure propagation from one limbic region to another. A bilateral, but not a unilateral, mossy fiber lesion also dramatically attenuated the behavioral expression of the seizures. Regardless of its effects on kainic acid-induced electrographic and behavioral seizures, a mossy fiber lesion always substantially reduced or completely prevented the degeneration of ipsilateral hippocampal CA3-CA4 neurons. This protective effect was specific for those hippocampal neurons deprived of mossy fiber innervation. Neurons in other regions of the brain were protected from degeneration only when the mossy fiber lesion also prevented the development of electrographic status epilepticus. These results suggest that the hippocampal mossy fibers constitute an important, though probably not an obligatory, link in the circuit responsible for the spread of kainic acid seizures. Degeneration of CA3-CA4 neurons appears to depend upon (1) the duration of hippocampal seizure activity and (2) an as yet undefined influence of or interaction with the mossy fiber projection which enhances the neurodegenerative effect of the seizures.
Electroencephalographic activity of the neocortex was evaluated in young (5-7 months) and aged (26-28 months) rats. All animals in the aged group showed behavioral impairment in a spatial task (water maze). A neocortical electroencephalogram was derived simultaneously from 16 different neocortical locations and was subjected to spectral analysis. The frequency of occurrence and duration of high-voltage spindles was determined in two sessions, each involving a total of 30 min alert immobility. Changes in spectral characteristics and high-voltage spindles in response to scopolamine administration were also evaluated. The power of high-frequency activity (8-20 Hz) was significantly reduced in the aged subjects. This was greatest in the temporo-occipital regions, while no significant changes were seen in the mediofrontal region. Scopolamine resulted in a large power increase in all frequency bands, but the increase in the higher-frequency range (8-20 Hz) was significantly less in the aged group. The incidence of high-voltage spindles was 6 times higher and their total duration was 9 times longer in aged rats, with virtually no overlap with the young group. In young rats, scopolamine increased the incidence and total duration of high-voltage spindles, while it decreased both parameters in the aged subjects. Cholinergic neurons in the nucleus basalis appeared shrunken in the aged animals. These findings demonstrate that reliable electroencephalographic changes are present in the neocortex of the aged rat, and that some of the physiological alterations may be due to the pathological changes in the cholinergic nucleus basalis.
Mature male Wistar rats were affected by a strong magnetic field of 0.70 T for 20 min per day for 2 weeks. A short distance between the electromagnet pole expansions allowed interposition of one restrained animal only. The results obtained showed that the immobilization stress increased the peptidergic activity of both light and dark pinealocytes. In the animals exposed to the magnetic field, a dual morphodynamic response was observed: the peptidergic activity of light pinealocytes was obviously reduced versus the unimpaired stress-stimulated functional engagement of dark pinealocytes. The probability that the retina----pineal gland magnetoreceptor-magnetoeffector circuit is formed through the accentuation of the suppression of the noradrenaline input on light pinealocytes is discussed. It is also hypothesized that a potentially harmful bioeffect of a strong magnetic field could be manifested second to the impairment of the activity of light pinealocytes in organisms coping with stress.
Non-cholinergic slow synaptic potentials mediated by the lumbar colonic nerve have been investigated using an in vitro preparation of the guinea-pig inferior mesenteric ganglion attached to a distal colonic segment. Non-cholinergic potential responses to colonic nerve stimulation, colonic distension and chemical activation of sensory afferents were recorded intracellularly from neurons in the inferior mesenteric ganglion. Electrical stimulation of the lumbar colonic nerve produced either a slow excitatory postsynaptic potential, or a slow inhibitory postsynaptic potential followed by a slow excitatory postsynaptic potential. The extrapolated reversal potential of the slow excitatory postsynaptic potential was in the range of 0 to -20 mV and that of the slow inhibitory postsynaptic potential was -90 to 110 mV. The slow excitatory postsynaptic potential and the slow inhibitory postsynaptic potential were reversibly abolished by perfusion of the ganglion with tetrodotoxin (1 microM), or perfusion with low calcium (200 microM), high magnesium (12 mM) containing solution. Capsaicin (1 microM) evoked a reversible depolarization of inferior mesenteric ganglion cells after which desensitization occurred and the slow excitatory postsynaptic potential was abolished but the slow inhibitory postsynaptic potential was enhanced in amplitude and prolonged in duration. Bath application of substance P (2 microM) evoked a prolonged depolarization of inferior mesenteric ganglion neurons, during which the slow excitatory postsynaptic potential but not the slow inhibitory postsynaptic potential was abolished. Distensions of the colon to pressures in the range of 2-25 cm of water produced a stimulus graded non-cholinergic slow depolarization which was occasionally followed by a late slow hyperpolarization. Both types of response were abolished by tetrodotoxin.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The central distribution of the terminations of primary afferent fibers from the gastrocnemius-soleus muscle in the cat was examined with the method of transganglionic transport of horseradish peroxidase. At the segmental level, the main projection areas were found to be laminae I and V-VII; in the rostrocaudal direction, the terminations extended from the third sacral segment to nucleus Z. A 40% solution of horseradish peroxidase in 2% dimethylsulfoxide was applied to the central cut ends of the muscle nerves in an open pool for several hours and subsequently was removed. A capsule of tracer solution applied during the survival period of the animals was found to result in additional labeling due to peripheral leakage. The tissue sections were processed with tetramethylbenzidine. Termination fields were consistently observed ipsilaterally in: lamina I from the L4 through S3 segments, being most dense in L6 and S1; lateral lamina V in L6 and S1-3; medial laminae VI-VII from L5 through S3; medial Clarke's column from L1 through L4; the ventral aspect of the gracile nucleus; and, nucleus Z. Little or no labeling was found in laminae II-IV in experiments in which peripheral leakage of tracer solution was prevented. The distribution of reaction product in laminae VI-VII and Clarke's column corresponds to the projections of large-diameter afferent fibers from the gastrocnemius-soleus muscle. The projections to laminae I and V, which are attributed to small-diameter sensory fibers, indicate involvement of these laminae in sensory modalities mediated by slowly conducting muscle afferent fibers, e.g. deep nociception. This pattern contrasts strongly with the central projections of cutaneous fibers, which terminate heavily in laminae II-IV, but resembles the central distribution of fibers from tooth pulp and viscera.
Degeneration and regeneration of olfactory receptor neurons were studied in adult rabbits by immunohistochemical procedures following unilateral olfactory bulbectomy. Staining patterns of the olfactory receptors of the lesioned side were compared with those of the intact side in the nasal septum at various postoperative periods (12h-6 months) following lesion. Monoclonal antibodies, produced against the rabbit olfactory bulb, were used as histochemical markers. A slight decrease in the number of olfactory receptor neurons occurred at 24 h after lesion. One monoclonal antibody 112D5 stained all receptor neurons including degenerating neurons, but the other 114G12 showed a rapid decrease in immunostaining so that 114G12-positive cells disappeared within 7 days after lesion. 114G12-positive cells reappeared at 4 weeks following lesion. By 3 months, 114G12-positive cells were arranged in a plane at the apical region of the superficial compartment of the receptor cell layer, suggesting a recapitulation of development pattern of the receptor neurons. Thereafter, the number of 114G12-positive cells increased progressively and the staining pattern of the olfactory epithelium was like that of control animals by 6 months. Monoclonal antibody 114G12 is thus the first marker that is not specific to olfactory neurons and can be used to characterize certain embryonic traits during the degeneration and regeneration of the olfactory epithelium in the adult mammal.
Staining patterns for monoclonal antibodies produced against the rabbit olfactory bulb were studied from embryonic day 14 up to 30 days after birth in the rabbit olfactory receptor neurons. One monoclonal antibody, 112D5, stained all of the receptor neurons in the olfactory epithelium and vomeronasal organ during development. The other, 114G12, showed a unique gradual expression in the olfactory receptor neurons. 114G12-Positive cells first appeared in the epithelium of the embryonic day-17 fetus. At embryonic day 25 or 26, 114G12-positive cells were situated in the superficial receptor cell layer. The arrangement in the positive and negative receptor neurons was 'superficial-positive' and 'deep-negative'. Thereafter, a gradual increase in the number of 'superficial-positive' cells was accompanied by a decrease in the 'deep-negative' cells. These changes continued until postnatal day 30. The negativity of staining for monoclonal antibody 114G12 in the deep compartment was retained in the adult rabbit. The supporting cells and basal cells were monoclonal antibody 114G12-negative throughout development. This unique developmental pattern suggests that monoclonal antibody 114G12 is a useful probe for studies on neurogenesis in adult animal. In contrast to the olfactory epithelium, the vomeronasal organ was monoclonal antibody 114G12-negative throughout development. Thus monoclonal antibody 114G12 makes a molecular distinction between the olfactory receptor neurons and vomeronasal system.
The major rat brain microtubule-associated proteins, MAP2 and tau, exhibit various properties that implicate them in the mechanisms underlying the growth of axons and dendrites during neuronal development. To determine if these properties represent fundamental morphogenetic mechanisms, we have examined the phylogenetic conservation of these proteins in Xenopus laevis, quail and rat with respect to their molecular form, cytological distribution and developmental expression. In all three species, the high-molecular weight form of MAP2 migrates as a pair of polypeptides (MAP2a and MAP2b); this doublet as well as the low-molecular weight form of MAP2 (MAP2c) and the tau proteins are markedly similar in size in the different classes of vertebrates. Immunohistochemical staining of the Xenopus and quail cerebellum showed that MAP2 is highly concentrated in dendrites whereas the tau proteins are predominantly confined to axons, exactly as they are in rat. The developmental regulation of these proteins in Xenopus and rat is also conserved. Between the larva and the adult (i.e. during metamorphosis) MAP2c undergoes a marked decrease while MAP2a undergoes a large increase. Thus, in both classes of vertebrates the timing of changes in MAP2 expression coincides with the maturation of neuronal morphology. Taken together, these conserved properties of MAP2 and tau in three phylogenetically divergent classes of vertebrates suggest that these proteins serve fundamental functions during neuronal morphogenesis.
Synaptophysin, previously identified as an integral membrane glycoprotein (mol. wt 38,000) characteristic of presynaptic vesicles of mature neurons, provides a molecular marker to study the origin, formation and traffic of synaptic vesicles. Using the monoclonal antibody SY38 against this polypeptide we have localized synaptophysin by immunofluorescence and electron microscope immunoperoxidase methods in cultured mouse hypothalamic neurons taken from 16-day-old fetuses which achieve synaptogenesis after 10-12 days in vitro. We have compared the localization of synaptophysin in perikarya and nerve endings as a function of age (2-19 days in vitro) and of treatment of mature neurons with nocodazole. Using immunofluorescence microscopy, synaptophysin was already detected in neuronal soma at 2 days in vitro, where the initiation of neurite development is observed. At the electron microscope level, virtually all mature synaptic boutons and varicosities showed an extensive synaptophysin labeling of synaptic vesicles at 12-13 days in culture whereas neurites showed only very few labeled vesicles. In neuronal soma taken before synapse formation (6 days in vitro), synaptophysin was selectively localized in membranes of the innermost cisternae of the Golgi zone and in vesicles of variable size and shape in the core of the Golgi zone. In contrast, after synapse formation, synaptophysin labeling was barely detected in the Golgi zone of neurons but a very strong labeling of synaptic vesicles in synaptic boutons was observed. Treatment of mature neurons (12 days in vitro) with nocodazole (10(-5) M) resulted in a conspicuous synaptophysin staining of the innermost trans-Golgi cisternae and numerous vesicles in the cytoplasm. Furthermore, an accumulation of labeled synaptic vesicles on the presynaptic membrane of nerve terminals was found. The data suggest that synaptophysin is released from the Golgi apparatus in a vesicular form, after glycosylation, and is then transported to nerve endings by a mechanism which requires integrity of microtubules.
Selective unilateral lesion of the nigrostriatal dopamine pathway by the cytotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine was previously shown to enhance the number and staining intensity of neurons expressing neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity in the ipsilateral striatum. This effect was completely reversed by treatment of the 6-hydroxydopamine-injected animals with the directly acting dopamine agonist apomorphine. This finding reinforces our previous hypothesis that changes in striatal neuropeptide Y staining subsequent to 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of this kind reflect changes in intraneuronal neuropeptide Y levels which are directly attributable to the suppression of a tonic dopaminergic control. In contrast to the effect of 6-hydroxydopamine lesion, non-destructive impairment of striatal dopamine transmission by treatments with either the dual dopamine D1/D2 receptor antagonist haloperidol or the dopamine synthesis inhibitor alpha-methylparatyrosine induced a decrease in both the number of neuropeptide Y striatal cells (-29.8% and -34.8%, respectively) and in their labeling intensity. The selective D2-antagonist sulpiride also showed a tendency to reduce the number of neuropeptide Y immunoreactive cells, whereas the selective D1 antagonist SCH 23390 induced a small but constant increase in this number. Taken as a whole, these results suggest that the dopaminergic D1 and D2 receptor subtypes play opposite roles in the dopaminergic control of the striatal neuropeptide Y neuronal system, which may account for the different changes in striatal neuropeptide Y immunostaining observed after 6-hydroxydopamine injury and after non-destructive impairment of nigrostriatal dopaminergic transmission.
In area 3b of primary somatosensory cortex, neurons may be classified as either rapidly adapting or slowly adapting to sustained stimuli and may be differentiated further by the presence or absence of a receptive field and by their threshold of activation. It is also possible to use the rate of adaptation of the background activity to a sustained stimulus to divide the cortex into slowly adapting regions or rapidly adapting regions. By blocking GABA-mediated inhibition with iontophoretically administered bicuculline methiodide, others have observed an increase in receptive field size in rapidly adapting regions but not in slowly adapting regions. The present study was designed to look for a different inhibitory transmitter which might control receptive field size in slowly adapting regions. Iontophoretically delivered strychnine was employed as an antagonist because it interferes with glycine-like inhibitory transmitters such as glycine, taurine and beta-alanine. Pharmacological tests were performed on 157 neurons in two series of experiments. In the first series three effects were documented. (i) In rapidly adapting regions, the size of the receptive field increased in 11 out of 25 cases whereas none of the 20 receptive fields tested in slowly adapting regions enlarged. (ii) In 13 of 24 cases a receptive field was revealed for previously unresponsive neurons in rapidly adapting regions whereas only 5 of 22 unresponsive cells tested in slowly adapting regions developed a receptive field. (iii) In 15 of 25 cells with receptive fields tested in rapidly adapting zones, strychnine reduced the threshold for somatic stimuli but only 8 of 20 cells isolated in slowly adapting zones showed this effect. In a second series of experiments, the effect of beta-alanine, glycine and taurine was examined on neurons of the rapidly adapting regions. beta-Alanine and taurine reduced the excitability of all neurons tested. Glycine inhibited most neurons. However, strychnine only antagonized the inhibitory effects of beta-alanine on responses to peripheral stimuli (9 of 11 cases). When neurons could not be driven by peripheral stimuli, the inhibition of spontaneous or glutamate-induced activity could not be blocked by strychnine (0 of 18 cases). We suggest that glycine-like amino acids contribute to the control of receptive field size and the control of neuronal excitability in rapidly adapting regions but not in slowly adapting regions. Our data suggest that strychnine-sensitive synapses are limited only to a subset of cortical neurons driven by somatic inputs.
Two types of serotonin neurons differentially responding to treatment with p-chlorophenylalanine, a potent inhibitor of serotonin synthesis, have been demonstrated in the rat brain by immunohistochemistry using a serotonin monoclonal antibody in combination with a quantitative morphometric analysis. In control rats, the numerical density of serotonin-immunoreactive varicosities and terminals varied considerably from region to region. In p-chlorophenylalanine-treated rats, the numerical density was reduced in every region, but the degree of reduction in each region differed markedly. No correlation was seen in values of the numerical density between the control and p-chlorophenylalanine-treated rats, indicating that serotonin-positive axons in p-chlorophenylalanine-treated rats were present independent of the degrees of the axon density seen in the controls. It is postulated, therefore, that there are at least two types of positive axons; one highly sensitive to p-chlorophenylalanine treatment and another relatively resistant to it. Since the numerical density in any region was always smaller in p-chlorophenylalanine-treated rats than in the controls, p-chlorophenylalanine-sensitive axons appeared to be more or less distributed in every region where positive axons were detectable under normal conditions. However, a number of regions were innervated purely by p-chlorophenylalanine-sensitive axons. By contrast, p-chlorophenylalanine-insensitive axons were observed in several definite regions. These regions appeared to be related to the limbic system, or cranial motor and parasympathetic nuclei. In the latter nuclei, p-chlorophenylalanine-insensitive axons seemed to possess such common morphological features as having relatively large varicosities and being situated adjacent to neural somata, suggesting their inhibitory roles in neurotransmission. The present result indicates that the two types of serotonin axons may play important roles in the behavioural events observed in rats following p-chlorophenylalanine treatment.
Immunocytochemical demonstration of monoamine oxidase-A, monoamine oxidase-B and tyrosine hydroxylase was performed in the human brain stem using monoclonal antibodies to monoamine oxidase-A and monoamine oxidase-B and polyclonal antibodies to tyrosine hydroxylase. In most of the brain areas examined, except the serotonergic dorsal nucleus of raphe, the noradrenergic locus coeruleus and the dorsal efferent nucleus of vagus, tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons were in greater number than monoamine oxidase-A-stained or monoamine oxidase-B-stained neurons. The dorsal nucleus of raphe showed no tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity, but reacted positively to serotonin- and monoamine oxidase-B antibodies, while monoamine oxidase-A staining was moderate. In none of the investigated brain areas did neurons exclusively react with monoamine oxidase-B antibodies without expressing monoamine oxidase-A in a few neurons, while in some areas neurons expressed both monoamine oxidase-A and tyrosine hydroxylase (locus coeruleus; dorsal efferent nucleus of vagus). The oculomotor nucleus stained only with monoamine oxidase-A antibodies, substantia nigra neurons reacted only with tyrosine hydroxylase antibodies. Glial staining in most of the brain areas examined seemed, with slight differences, to have the same intensity with monoamine oxidase-A and monoamine oxidase-B antibodies used. No glial staining was obtained with tyrosine hydroxylase antibodies.
The pharmacological characteristics and anatomical distribution of benzodiazepine receptors in the human hippocampal formation were studied in seven cases aged 4-68 years. The pharmacology of the receptors was studied by computerized, non-linear least squares regression analysis of [3H]flunitrazepam displacement by flunitrazepam, CL218,872 and ethyl beta-carboline-3-carboxylate binding to membranes and the anatomical localization of these receptors was demonstrated using quantitative autoradiography following in vitro labelling of cryostat sections with [3H]flunitrazepam. The pharmacological studies indicated that the human hippocampal formation contained equal numbers of benzodiazepine receptors with high affinity (Type I) and low affinity (Type II) for CL218,872 and ethyl beta-carboline-3-carboxylate. The autoradiograms demonstrated that the benzodiazepine receptors were distributed in a heterogeneous fashion throughout the major regions of the human hippocampal formation; the highest concentrations of receptors were present in the dentate gyrus (molecular layer) and field CA1 of Ammon's horn (strata pyramidale, oriens, lacunosum), with moderate concentrations in field CA2 of Ammon's horn (stratum pyramidale) and in regions of the subicular complex and entorhinal cortex, and with considerably lower densities in fields CA3 and CA4. Quantitative analyses of the autoradiograms showed that the regions containing the highest densities of receptors (molecular layer of dentate gyrus and the strata oriens, pyramidale and lacunosum of CA1) were enriched with Type 1 receptors whereas other regions of lower receptor densities were enriched with either Type I or Type II receptors.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Co-localization of substance P with serotonin in raphe projection neurons was studied by combining substance P immunocytochemistry and autoradiography following uptake and retrograde axonal transport of [3H]serotonin and/or its products from target areas. In this study, two central pathways in the rat were investigated: the serotonergic projections of the midbrain raphe to the olfactory bulb and those of the medullary raphe that innervate the thoracic spinal cord. Two hours after pargyline pretreatment, injections of 10(-4) M [3H]serotonin were made either into the olfactory bulb or into the spinal cord and respectively 24 or 60 h thereafter, rats were administered with colchicine. After a 24 h survival time, the paraformaldehyde fixed brains were investigated for substance P immunocytochemistry and then treated for light and electron microscopy autoradiography. Combining both methods, we can define on the same tissue sections at least three labeled neuronal populations: substance P immunolabeled neurons, radiolabeled neurons and doubly immuno-radiolabeled neurons. In the midbrain raphe cells as well as in the olfactory bulb nerve terminals, two kinds of labeled profiles were detected: substance P immunoreactive profiles and radiolabeled ones. The radiolabeled cell bodies of the midbrain raphe (403 counted cells) were never reactive to substance P antibodies. Moreover, they were distributed caudally to substance P stained perikarya. In contrast, in the medullary raphe, of the 336 radiolabeled cell bodies 162 were stained after substance P antibody treatment. They represent about 48% of the serotonin radiolabeled neurons projecting to the thoracic spinal cord, where a great number of varicosities were observed immunolabeled, radiolabeled and doubly immuno-radiolabeled in the dorsal horn. At the ultrastructural level, cell bodies and dendritic processes were also doubly labeled. Both labelings were observed over the cytoplasm and some organelles or perikarya. These observations provide a morphological basis to support the hypothesis that substance P can occur within some but not all serotonergic neurons and raise questions about the expression of this peptide in these systems as well as the modes of interaction of these transmitter molecules.
Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP)-immunoreactive nerve fibres occurred predominantly around blood vessels and large ducts and, to a minor extent, around acini and small ducts in the parotid, sublingual and submaxillary glands of the rat. Double immunostaining showed most of the CGRP-containing nerve fibres to contain substance P. However, the vast majority of substance P-immunoreactive periacinar nerve fibres in the parotid and submandibular glands lacked CGRP. After parasympathetic denervation of the parotid gland by section of the auriculotemporal nerve these periacinar substance P-immunoreactive nerve fibres disappeared almost completely, whereas the number of substance P/CGRP-immunoreactive nerve fibres seemed unchanged. After this operation the total amount of substance P in the parotid gland was reduced by about 90% as judged by radioimmunoassay; in denervation experiments the facial nerve was found to contribute to the residual substance P content. In contrast, the contribution of the auriculotemporal nerve to the CGRP content of the gland was small; the reduction in CGRP after section of the nerve was 20%. The facial nerve and the dorsal root nerves (C3 and C4) contributed to the CGRP content with about 50%. The source of the remaining 30% of the parotid gland CGRP is unknown. It is not the sympathetic nerve: sympathetic denervation resulted in a marked increase in CGRP, regardless of whether the auriculotemporal nerve was intact or not. Upon long-lasting electrical stimulation of the auriculotemporal nerve at a high frequency the parotid gland content of CGRP was gradually reduced, indicating depletion of this peptide in response to nerve stimulation. Intravenous injections of CGRP evoked no salivary flow; however, a release of amylase was revealed. Also, when CGRP was tested on isolated parotid gland lobules amylase was released into the medium. When, in vivo, CGRP was injected in combination with substance P, the substance P-evoked flow of parotid and submaxillary saliva was markedly enhanced. In addition, CGRP enhanced the in vivo secretory response to parasympathomimetics and to vasoactive intestinal peptide. The localization of CGRP-containing nerve fibres suggests that CGRP is involved in the regulation of secretion and blood flow of salivary glands. CGRP may interact positively with acetylcholine and certain nonclassical transmitters, and it may be involved (together with other neuropeptides) in the atropine-resistant parasympathetic secretion occurring in the glands under study.
An antibody specific for the C-terminus of rat alpha calcitonin gene-related peptide has been used in radioimmunoassay to measure concentrations of immunoreactive peptide in the upper gastrointestinal tract of capsaicin-treated and coeliac ganglionectomized rats, and to measure axonal transport velocities in the vagus and splanchnic nerves. In adult rats that had been treated soon after birth with capsaicin, immunoreactive calcitonin gene-related peptide in the stomach and duodenum was undetectable (less than 0.1 pmol/g) compared with 4-10 pmol/g in control rats. Removal of the coeliac ganglion also reduced concentrations of immunoreactive calcitonin gene-related peptide by 5-fold, but Leu-enkephalin and Met-enkephalin Arg6Gly7Leu8-immunoreactivities (which are thought to occur in intrinsic gut neurons) were unchanged by coeliac ganglionectomy. Concentrations of calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactivity in coeliac ganglia were depressed by 90% in capsaicin-treated rats but concentrations of opioid peptide immunoreactivity were similar to control. The results suggest calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactivity in the upper gastrointestinal tract in the rat is predominantly of extrinsic afferent origin. Chromatographic separation on Sephadex G50, or high-performance liquid chromatography revealed that the major immunoreactive form in stomach extracts corresponded to intact calcitonin gene-related peptide, although there was evidence of smaller, less hydrophobic C-terminal fragments. Direct evidence of transport of calcitonin gene-related peptide toward the gut was obtained by ligation of the cervical vagus and greater splanchnic nerves. There was accumulation on the central side of ligatures, which suggested axonal transport velocities in the vagus of about 1.5 mm/h and 0.7 mm/h in splanchnic nerves.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The origin of the peptidergic nerve fibers and terminals in the celiac superior mesenteric ganglion of the guinea-pig was studied. The distribution of immunoreactivity to enkephalin, substance P, calcitonin gene-related peptide, cholecystokinin, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide/peptide histidine isoleucine, bombesin and dynorphin was analysed in intact animals and in animals subjected to various denervation and ligation procedures. The present results show that each of the connected nerve trunks carries peptidergic pathways and contributes to the peptidergic networks in the celiac superior mesenteric ganglion. Thus, the thoracic splanchnic nerves contain enkephalin-, substance P- and calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactivity of which substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide coexist in the same nerve fibers. In addition, cholecystokinin-, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide/peptide histidine isoleucine- and dynorphin-immunoreactivity is present in some fibers. All of these immunoreactivities are present in sensory neurons except enkephalin which probably originates in the spinal cord. The mesenteric nerves carry enkephalin-, calcitonin gene-related peptide-, cholecystokinin-, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide/peptide histidine isoleucine-, bombesin- and dynorphin-immunoreactive fibers from the intestine and are the main source for cholecystokinin, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide/peptide histidine isoleucine, bombesin and dynorphin fibers. Double-staining experiments indicate that many of these peptides are synthesized in the same enteric neurons. Also the intermesenteric nerve contains peptide-immunoreactive fibers to the celiac superior mesenteric ganglion from different sources, probably including the distal colon as well as dorsal root ganglia and spinal cord at lower thoracic and lumbar levels. The results are discussed in relation to earlier morphological and physiological studies supporting the view of a role of the celiac superior mesenteric ganglion in local reflex mechanisms involved in regulation of gastrointestinal functions.
Despite von Bergmann's work in the Franco-Prussian War and Makins' experiences in the Boer conflict, military surgeons in World War I were unprepared for the nature and extent of intracranial injuries. Poor triage, disorganized transportation, incomplete surgery, and sepsis resulted in a mortality of over 50%. In 1915, as a volunteer to the Ambulance Amricaine near Paris, Harvey Cushing spent 5 weeks observing the Allied medical system. He quickly recognized the technical importance of early, definitive intracranial surgery and the logistical requirements for a unified triage system located along the main lines of traffic. Cushing returned to France in 1917 as director of Base Hospital #5, known as the Harvard Unit. Immediately detached to the British Expeditionary Force, he operated at a smaller casualty clearing station close to the Belgian front. The patients treated during the third battle of Ypres (Passchendaele) formed the basis of his technical reports. He standardized intracranial injuries into nine categories with separate mortality rates. In addition, he recommended the surgical techniques of en bloc bone resection under local anesthesia with suction debridement and primary two-layer closure. Shell fragments were removed by magnets when possible; dichloramine-T was used as an antiseptic. By reducing infection and secondary complications, Cushing halved the earlier mortality rates. In September 1918, as senior consultant to the American Expeditionary Force, Cushing was in charge of organizing the neurosurgical care for the St. Mihiel and Meuse-Argonne offensives. His instruction of individual surgeons in operative techniques and the creation of identified hospital centers with suitable equipment and trained personnel helped to establish neurological surgery as a military specialty.

Recent reports have indicated that microwave radiation can produce effects on a variety of cell types in vitro. To determine whether microwave radiation might be neurotoxic, the effects of microwave radiation on synapsin I have been examined. Synapsin I is a neuron-specific phosphoprotein that is present in all neurons, where it is localized to the presynaptic terminal and is associated with synaptic vesicles. O'Callaghan and Miller have demonstrated that studies of such neuron-specific proteins can provide reliable indices of neurotoxicity. We have used a radioimmunoassay for synapsin I to determine whether microwave irradiation has any effect on the levels of synapsin I. Neither acute nor chronic exposure to microwave irradiation had any detectable effect on synapsin I levels. We have also examined the calcium-dependent phosphorylation of synapsin I in synaptosomes isolated from rats that had been subjected to microwave radiation. The phosphorylation of synapsin I in synaptosomes reflects numerous components of the presynaptic aspect of neuronal transmission. At intensities below that required to produce mild hyperthermia, no effects of microwave irradiation were seen on synapsin I phosphorylation.
Three children with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and primary lymphoma of the CNS are described. All three children had clinical signs of focal mass lesions and progressive neurologic deficits. In one child the deterioration was extremely rapid. New lesions appeared on serial CT scans every few days, simulating an infectious process and leading to death within 3 weeks. Results of neuroradiologic studies in these patients demonstrated multicentric lesions that were often periventricular. On CT scans, the lesions were hyperdense before contrast and were enhanced with contrast medium. Double-dose delayed contrast CT scans and magnetic resonance imaging studies were more sensitive in indicating additional lesions. Histologically, all three tumors were B cell neoplasms; two lymphomas were large cell type, whereas one was small cell, noncleaved (Burkitt-like). Primary CNS lymphoma occurred with an incidence of 1/26 (4%) in our autopsy series and 3/100 (3%) of all pediatric cases of human immunodeficiency virus-type 1 infection, living and dead, that have been seen at the Children's Hospital of New Jersey. By comparison, opportunistic and reactivated latent CNS infections were less common in this same population and never appeared clinically as mass lesions. Therefore, in our experience, primary lymphoma is the most common cause of focal or multifocal mass lesions in the brains of children with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. This tumor may be radiosensitive. In most cases, early biopsy is probably necessary to establish the diagnosis.
The effects of the methionine-enkephalin analog [D-Ala2-Met5]-enkephalinamide (DAME) upon the threshold for affective defense behavior were determined following microinjections placed into midbrain periaqueductal gray sites from which this response was elicited. Affective defense behavior was elicited by electrical stimulation through a cannula electrode situated in the dorsal aspect of the midbrain periaqueductal gray. Dose-response curves characterizing the effects of DAME upon affective defense behavior were determined utilizing the following doses: 0.25, 0.5 and 1.0 microgram in 0.5 microliter saline, pH = 7.4 or vehicle control (saline). Response thresholds were tested 10-30, 30-60, 60-90, 120-150, 180-210, 1440-1470 and 2880-2910 min postinjection. The results obtained indicated that injections of DAME at a dose of 1.0 microgram/0.5 microliter produced significant, long duration elevations in affective defense thresholds, lasting up to 1440-1470 min postinjection. Lower doses of DAME (0.25 and 0.5 microgram/0.5 microliter) also resulted in significant increases in affective defense thresholds, but these effects were of shorter durations (60-90 and 120-150 min) postinjection, respectively. The suppressive effects of DAME were blocked when animals were pretreated with naloxone (10 micrograms/0.5 microliter) microinjected into the same midbrain periaqueductal gray site into which 0.25 microgram DAME was injected and affective defense behavior was elicited.
The effects of highly selective mu and delta opioid peptide agonists were determined in two rat models of experimentally-induced convulsions, the flurothyl threshold test and the maximal electroshock test. Intracerebroventricular injections of the mu selective enkephalin DAGO (0.3-2.2 nmol) resulted in a dose-related protection in both seizure models. Pretreatment with a low dose of naloxone (29 nmol) or the irreversible mu antagonist beta-FNA (21 nmol), but not the delta opioid antagonist ICI 154,129 (50 nmol), antagonized the anticonvulsant actions of DAGO. Intracerebroventricular injections of the delta selective enkephalin DPDPE (70-140 nmol) also resulted in seizure protection. These effects were selectively antagonized by the delta antagonist ICI 174,864 (2.8 nmol), but not by pretreatment with beta-FNA. Thus, using agonists and antagonists highly selective for mu and delta opioid receptors, anticonvulsant actions of enkephalin have been described against chemically- and electrically-induced convulsions in rats.
Bilateral electrolytic lesion of the striatonigral pathways (which convey massive afferents to the substantia nigra) caused a marked lowering of alpha-neo-endorphin (alpha-Neo) and dynorphin A(1-8) [Dyn A(1-8)] levels in the substantia nigra without affecting the alpha-Neo content in the ventral tegmental area. Moreover, unilateral infusion of the axon sparing neurotoxin ibotenate into the striatum, but not into the substantia nigra, decrease these two opioid peptides in the substantia nigra on the side ipsilateral to the lesion, failing to modify the alpha-Neo levels in the ventral tegmental area. Bilateral electrolytic lesion of the habenula augmented alpha-Neo content in the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area at 8-30 days postlesion without affecting the nigral Dyn A(1-8). These results add further support to the view that alpha-Neo- and Dyn A(1-8)-containing neurons projecting to the substantia nigra originate in the striatum and descend through striatonigral pathways. The present data provide evidence that the habenula may participate in the regulation of the activity of alpha-Neo-immunoreactive neurons in the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area.

Diazepam binding inhibitor (DBI), an endogenous 10-kDa polypeptide was isolated from rat and human brain by monitoring displacement of radioactive diazepam bound to specific recognition sites in brain synaptic and mitochondrial membranes. The cellular location of DBI mRNA was studied in rat brain and selected peripheral tissues by in situ hybridization histochemistry with a 35S-labeled single-stranded complementary RNA probe. DBI mRNA was heterogeneously distributed in rat brain, with particularly high levels in the area postrema, the cerebellar cortex, and ependyma of the third ventricle. Intermediate levels were found in the olfactory bulb, pontine nuclei, inferior colliculi, arcuate nucleus, and pineal gland. Relatively low but significant levels of silver grains were observed overlying many mesencephalic and telencephalic areas that have previously been shown to contain numerous DBI-immunoreactive neurons and a high density of central benzodiazepine receptors. In situ hybridizations also revealed high levels of DBI mRNA in the posterior lobe of the pituitary gland, liver, and germinal center of the white pulp of spleen, all tissues that are rich in peripheral benzodiazepine binding sites. The tissue-specific pattern of DBI gene expression described here could be exploited to further understand the physiological function of DBI in the brain and periphery.
We have used in situ chromosome hybridization and human-mouse somatic cell hybrids to map the gene(s) for human diazepam binding inhibitor (DBI), an endogenous putative modulator of the gamma-aminobutyric acid receptor acting at the allosteric regulatory center of this receptor that includes the benzodiazepine recognition site. In 784 chromosome spreads hybridized with human DBI cDNA, the distribution of 1476 labeled sites revealed a significant clustering of autoradiographic grains (11.3% of total label) on the long arm of chromosome 2 (2q). Furthermore, 63.5% of the grains found on 2q were located on 2q12-21, suggesting regional mapping of DBI gene(s) to this segment. Secondary hybridization signals were frequently observed on other chromosomes and they were statistically significant mainly for chromosomes 5, 6, 11, and 14. In addition, DNA from 32 human-mouse cell hybrids was digested with BamHI and probed with human DBI cDNA. A 3.5-kilobase band, which probably represents the human DBI gene, was assigned to chromosome 2. Four higher molecular weight bands, also detected in BamHI digests, could not be unequivocally assigned. A chromosome 2 location was excluded for the 27-, 13-, and 10-kilobase bands. These results assign a human DBI gene to chromosome 2 (2q12-21) and indicate that three of the four homologous sequences detected by the human DBI probe are located on three other chromosomes.
Glycine markedly potentiates N-methyl-D-aspartate (N-Me-D-Asp) responses in mammalian neurons by an action at a modulatory site on the N-Me-D-Asp receptor-ionophore complex. Here we present evidence that 7-chlorokynurenic acid (7-Cl KYNA) inhibits N-Me-D-Asp responses by a selective antagonism of glycine at this modulatory site. In rat cortical slices 7-Cl KYNA (10-100 microM) noncompetitively inhibited N-Me-D-Asp responses, and this effect could be reversed by the addition of glycine (100 microM) or D-serine (100 microM). Radioligand binding experiments showed that 7-Cl KYNA had a much higher affinity for the strychnine-insensitive [3H]glycine binding site (IC50 = 0.56 microM) than for the N-Me-D-Asp (IC50 169 microM), quisqualate (IC50 = 153 microM), or kainate (IC50 greater than 1000 microM) recognition sites. In whole-cell patch-clamp recordings from rat cortical neurones in culture, the inhibitory effects of 7-Cl KYNA on N-Me-D-Asp-induced currents could not be overcome by increasing the N-Me-D-Asp concentration but could be reversed by increasing the glycine concentration. 7-Cl KYNA could completely abolish N-Me-D-Asp responses, including basal responses in the absence of added glycine, suggesting that it may possess negative modulatory effects at the glycine site. These findings indicate that the glycine modulatory site is functional in intact adult tissue and that 7-Cl KYNA should prove to be a selective tool for elucidating the involvement of this site in physiological and pathological events mediated by N-Me-D-Asp receptors.
Autophosphorylation of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II converts the enzyme to a Ca2+-independent form. The time course for this conversion correlates with the autophosphorylation of a threonine residue located within a thermolytic phosphopeptide common to the alpha and beta/beta' subunits. In the present study, this site was identified in the alpha subunit. After autophosphorylation under conditions that produced near-maximal Ca2+-independent activity, the alpha and beta/beta' subunits were separated by NaDodSO4/PAGE, and the alpha subunit was cleaved with cyanogen bromide. The major phosphopeptide (CB-1), containing phosphothreonine as the only radiolabeled amino acid, was purified by reverse-phase high performance liquid chromatography and subjected to automated gas-phase Edman degradation. The sequence obtained, Xaa-Arg-Gln-Glu-Thr-Val-Asp-Xaa-Leu-Lys-Lys-Phe-Asn-Ala-Arg-Arg-Lys-Leu, represented the NH2-terminal 18 residues (residues 282-299) of a 26-amino acid cyanogen bromide peptide predicted from the deduced primary structure of the alpha subunit and contained a consensus sequence for Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent kinase II phosphorylation that included Thr-286. The sequences obtained for two phosphopeptides derived from secondary chymotryptic digestion of CB-1 confirmed that Thr-286 was the phosphorylated residue.
The drug experience is not a phenomenon of isolated interest to the neurosciences. The investigation of the phases of the drug experience can tell us much about the process of stimulating and losing creativity. This paper aimed to present a human model of creativity and the drug experience to complement the existing animal models. It remains for future research to reject or confirm the hypotheses sketched here. The exploration of these hypotheses would give us better insight into the control mechanisms determining the delicate process of creating functional forms that link words and images to feelings (for example, art). The examination of the drug experience from the point of view of cerebral lateralization provides a better understanding of how the quest for art may be tied up with the consequences of self-destruction. As Luria has noted, the gnostic disturbances associated with damages of the right hemisphere are &quot;the remarkable absence of perception of the patient of his own defects; . . . such patients have unimpaired speech but they lack the precise analysis of the direct flow of information about their own body.&quot; Perhaps this was intuitively known by Coleridge, who in 1803 had already passed into the maintenance phase and wrote the fragment &quot;Reality's Dark Dream&quot;: I know 'tis but a dream, yet feel more anguish Than if 'twere truth. It has been often so: Must I die under it? Is no one near? Will no one hear these stifled groans and wake me?

The effect of phosphorylated delta sleep-inducing peptide (DSIP-P) on sleep of rats was studied. DSIP-P (20 or 200 pmol/kg) was injected into the third cerebroventricle of male rats immediately before the onset of the dark period of a 12:12 h light-dark cycle. DSIP-P resulted in increases of slow-wave sleep (SWS) (17.3%, P less than 0.01) and paradoxical sleep (PS) (32.3%, P less than 0.05) during the subsequent dark period without shortening sleep latency in the dose of 200 pmol/kg. The SWS-promoting effect was carried over to the next light period. These changes returned to control levels on the second day. These results indicate that DSIP-P is a long-lasting sleep-promoting substance in rats.
Schwann cell movement and proliferation occur during peripheral nerve regeneration and remyelination. We asked whether soluble factors promoting these activities were present in fluid surrounding rat sciatic nerves regenerating across a 10-mm gap bridged by a silicone tube. In this model, regenerated and remyelinated axons extend across the gap by 28 days following nerve transection and tube implantation. Fluid conditioned by cells participating in nerve regeneration (RCF) was assayed for its ability to promote Schwann cell adhesion, migration and proliferation in vitro. RCFs collected at post-transectional days 1-28 were equally effective in promoting Schwann cell-substratum adhesion. In contrast, the motility-promoting activity of RCF was minimal at 1-2 days following nerve-transection, peaked at 7 days and remained elevated through 21 days. The RCF peak response was 87-fold greater than control. Schwann cell proliferative activity of RCF exhibited peaks of activity at 1 and 14 days post-transection. The biological potency of this fluid for each activity assayed in vitro correlated well with the behavior of Schwann cells chronicled during nerve repair in vivo. These findings suggest that soluble factors promoting Schwann cell adhesion, migration, and proliferation accumulate extracellularly during peripheral nerve regeneration and remyelination.
GDEE, a specific but low-potency antagonist of the quisqualate or 'Type 2' excitatory amino acid receptor, blocks seizures induced by homocysteine and quisqualic acid. Deaminated analogues of GDEE were examined for anticonvulsant activity in mice, for the purpose of determining the structural properties of GDEE required for anticonvulsant activity. The deaminated derivative of GDEE, diethyl glutarate (5 carbon chain) inhibited homocysteine thiolactone (HTL)-induced seizures with an ED50 of 533 mg/kg. A similar compound with carbon chain length increased by two (diethyl pimelate; 7 carbons) was less effective. Decreases or further increases in carbon chain length resulted in a nearly complete loss of activity. Dimethyl glutarate (5 carbons) and dimethyl adipate (6 carbons) were similar to diethyl glutarate in potency, blocking HTL-induced seizures with ED50s of about 625 and 540 mg/kg, respectively. Diethyl ethylmalonate, diethyl maleate, and diethyl fumarate were much less effective. Diethyl glutarate, but not diethyl succinate (4 carbons), blocked seizures induced by intracerebral quisqualic acid. None of the agents tested blocked pentylenetetrazole-induced seizures. Thus a number of deaminated structural variants of GDEE have anticonvulsant activity equal to that of GDEE. The amino group of GDEE appears therefore to be irrelevant for its anticonvulsant effect.
The neurotoxic lesion produced by direct injection of 25 nmol of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) into the corpus striatum of 7-day-old rats was compared to the effects of injecting 75 nmol into the striatum or hippocampus of adults. The area of histopathology in the immature striatum was 21 X larger than the striatal lesion in adults. Damage from NMDA injected into the immature striatum also extended into the dorsal hippocampus and produced an area of destruction which was 16 X larger than observed after direct injection into the adult hippocampus. Several studies have implicated excessive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation in the pathogenesis of hypoxic-ischemic and hypoglycemic injury and our results suggest that this neurotoxic mechanism is extremely active in the immature brain.
Several complementary DNAs (cDNAs) coding for sphingolipid activator protein-2 (SAP-2) were isolated from a lambda gt-11 human hepatoma library by means of polyclonal antibodies. The nucleotide sequence of the largest cDNA was colinear with the derived amino acid sequence of SAP-2 and with the nucleotide sequence of the cDNA coding for the 70-kilodalton precursor of SAP-1 (SAP precursor cDNA). The coding sequence for mature SAP-2 was located 3' to that coding for SAP-1 in the SAP precursor cDNA. Both SAP-1 and SAP-2 appeared to be derived by proteolytic processing from a common precursor that is coded by a genetic locus on human chromosome 10. Two other domains similar to SAP-1 and SAP-2 were also identified in SAP precursor protein. Each of the four domains was approximately 80 amino acid residues long, had nearly identical placement of cysteine residues, potential glycosylation sites, and proline residues. Each domain also contained internal amino acid sequences capable of forming amphipathic helices separated by helix breakers to give a cylindrical hydrophobic domain that is probably stabilized by disulfide bridges. Protein immunoblotting experiments indicated that SAP precursor protein (70 kilodaltons) as well as immunoreactive SAP-like proteins of intermediate sizes (65, 50, and 31 kilodaltons) are present in most human tissues.
Lesions of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis and the medial septal area have been shown to produce both deficits in memory and decreases in choline acetyltransferase levels. In order to determine whether functional changes in acetylcholine receptor sensitivity also occur, the present experiment examined the ability of acetylcholine, 40 micrograms intraventricularly, to induce motor seizures in nucleus basalis magnocellularis-medial septal area lesioned versus control rats. While choline acetyltransferase activity was only modestly reduced in lesioned rats vs control rats (30%), the seizure scores were considerably higher in lesioned vs. control rats (270%). These results suggest that there is an increased functional response to acetylcholine following bilateral nucleus basalis magnocellularis-medial septal area lesions.
The development of preferential cholinergic projections of spinal cord neurons within superior cervical ganglia (SCG) was analyzed in vitro using cocultures of SCGs (E17) with organotypic explants of fetal mouse cord (E13). The cord explants consisted of: (1) dorsal vs medioventral strips or mediodorsal vs ventral strips (dissected from levels C8-T4), or (2) transverse sections cut at various levels of the neuraxis. After 4 weeks of coculture, choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) was assayed in individual explants to quantify development of the cholinergic neurotransmitter enzyme (a) within the cord neurons, and (b) within the SCG. An index of cholinergic interaction was calculated as the relative ChAT activity in cocultured ganglion per unit ChAT activity in the ipsilateral cord strip. The highest index value (0.7) was obtained in cocultures with mediodorsal strips of cord. The index of interaction was progressively lower with medioventral (0.4), ventral (0.3) and dorsal (0.1) cord. In cocultures of transverse sections of spinal cord and SCGs, the highest indices of cholinergic interaction (expressed per hemisection of cord) were obtained with cord levels T1/T2 (1.0) and T5 (0.9). The index decreased with T9 (0.7) and was significantly lower with segments C2/C3 (0.3) and L2/L3 (0.19). Addition of a skeletal muscle target explant to the cord-SCG cocultures did not alter the preferential index of interaction between SCG and upper thoracic cord levels. Furthermore, the cholinergic cord neurons in medioventral strips did not promote increase of ChAT activity into equally accessible cocultured ganglia of inappropriate phenotype, e.g. sensory dorsal root ganglia. Decentralization of SCGs after coculture with appropriate T1/T2 cord resulted in loss of ganglionic ChAT activity. Electrical stimulation of the medial region in T1/T2 cord explants evoked compound ganglion action potentials in cocultured SCGs. The ganglion responses were blocked by hexamethonium. These data suggested that neurons located in the medial region of upper thoracic cord (presumably autonomic preganglionic) are able to develop enhanced cholinergic projections within cocultured SCGs, in comparison with neurons located in ventral cord (presumably motoneurons). In contrast, dorsal cord neurons showed no significant cholinergic interaction with SCGs. Furthermore, neurons located in upper thoracic spinal cord segments develop enhanced cholinergic projections within cocultured SCGs in comparison with neurons located in cervical and lumbar cord segments.
gamma-Aminobutyric acid (GABA) is an inhibitory transmitter found in the retinae of mammals largely within certain amacrine cells. In previous studies from this laboratory, subcutaneous administration to rats of gabaculine, an enzyme-activated irreversible inhibitor of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-transaminase, produced large, rapid and long-lasting increases in levels of retinal GABA. We employed immunocytochemistry to determine whether such changes in the levels of retinal GABA are accompanied by changes in the cellular distribution of GABA. Using a recently developed antiserum to a GABA-protein conjugate, and the peroxidase-antiperoxidase method, we examined retinae from control rats and from rats 2 or 8 h after administration of 10 mg/kg gabaculine. From previous work, retinal levels of GABA were respectively elevated 3- or 6-fold at those postgabaculine times. In the present study, marked changes in the distribution of GABA-like immunoreactivity (GABA-LIR) were apparent by 2 h after injection of gabaculine, and were more striking at 8 h postgabaculine. The pattern of staining for GABA-LIR strongly suggested that much of the GABA in gabaculine-treated retinae was within Mller glial cells. That observation provides evidence for the importance of those cells in the uptake and degradation of GABA after its release from retinal neurons.
Recent evidence has implicated activation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) class of glutamate receptor in the initiation of hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP), an electrophysiological model of information storage in the brain. A separate line of evidence has suggested that activation of protein kinase C (PKC) and the consequent phosphorylation of its substrates is necessary for the maintenance of the LTP response. To determine if PKC activation is a consequence of NMDA receptor activation during LTP, we applied the NMDA receptor antagonist drug, DL-aminophosphonovalerate (APV) both immediately prior to and following high frequency stimulation, resulting in successful and unsuccessful blockade of LTP initiation, respectively. We then measured the phosphorylation of a PKC substrate (protein F1) in hippocampal tissue dissected from these animals. Only successful blockade of LTP initiation by prior application of APV was seen to block the LTP-associated increase in protein F1 phosphorylation measured in vitro (P less than 0.001 by ANOVA). This suggests that NMDA receptor-mediated initiation triggers maintenance processes that are, at least in part, mediated by protein F1 phosphorylation. These data provide the first evidence linking two mechanisms associated with LTP, NMDA receptor activation and PKC substrate phosphorylation.

Enkephalin analogues were superfused onto hippocampal slices during intracellular recording of dentate granule cells. The enkephalins elicited either weak depolarizations, weak hyperpolarizations, or no effect on membrane potential, in about equal numbers of cells tested. Similarly, input resistance either decreased, increased or did not change, and was not well correlated with the potential changes. However, at all concentrations tested (2-10 microM) the enkephalins reduced evoked depolarizing synaptic potentials by up to 70%. We speculate that a major function of endogenous enkephalin-containing fibers projecting to the dentate is to dampen afferent synaptic transmission.
We have examined the hypothesis that endogenous serotonin (5-HT) exerts an inhibitory influence on the release of acetylcholine (ACh) in striatum. Striatal slices were prepared from adult rats, preincubated with [3H]choline, superfused, and exposed to electrical field stimulation. The stimulation-induced overflow of tritium into the superfusate was used as a measure of ACh release. We observed that fluoxetine, an inhibitor of 5-HT uptake, reduced ACh overflow in slices prepared from caudal striatum, an area of high 5-HT concentration, but not in slices from rostral striatum, an area of low 5-HT concentration. Moreover, methysergide, a 5-HT antagonist, increased ACh efflux in caudal but not rostral striatum. Finally, direct activation of 5-HT receptors with the 5-HT agonist, quipazine, inhibited stimulation-induced ACh overflow in both rostral and caudal striatum. These results suggest that endogenous 5-HT normally is capable of inhibiting striatal ACh release, and that the extent of the modulation is related to the degree of serotonergic innervation. In addition, 5-HT receptors capable of modulating ACh release are present in 5-HT-poor rostral striatum, as well as in 5-HT-rich caudal striatum.
The intraventricular administration of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) depletes the striatum of dopamine (DA). When given to rat pups at an early age, the toxin also increases striatal serotonin (5-HT) content. In the accompanying report we observed that endogenous 5-HT, like DA, exerts an inhibitory influence on the release of acetylcholine (ACh) from striatal slices prepared from control animals and that the extent of this inhibition is related to the degree of serotonergic innervation of the region being examined. To determine whether this hyperinnervation was accompanied by an increase in serotonergic influence on ACh release, striatal slices were prepared from adult rats, preincubated with [3H]choline, superfused, and exposed to electrical field stimulation. The efflux of tritium into the superfusate was used as a measure of ACh release. In confirmation of previous reports, we observed that direct and indirect agonists of DA and 5-HT both reduced ACh overflow from control slices, whereas overflow was increased by antagonists of these amines. Slices prepared from rats given 6-OHDA-induced lesions as adults were responsive to each of these pharmacological manipulations, as well. In contrast, ACh overflow from slices prepared from animals lesioned with 6-OHDA as neonates was not modified by either dopaminergic or serotonergic drugs. These results suggest that the serotonergic hyperinnervation of striatum produced by neonatal 6-OHDA is accompanied by a loss of the inhibitory influence of endogenous 5-HT and DA on striatal ACh release and, thus, provide no evidence for a role for either transmitter in the behavioral sparing associated with such lesions.
Dynorphin A-(1-17) acts through non-opioid mechanisms to produce dose-related neurological deficits following injection into the lumbar spinal subarachnoid space in rats. Hindlimb motor function was examined following subarachnoid injection of dynorphin A fragments and other opioid peptides derived from prodynorphin to establish: (1) which portion(s) of the dynorphin A molecule cause hindlimb motor dysfunction, and (2) whether these paralytic actions are shared by other opioids (dynorphin B, alpha-neo-endorphin, and beta-neo-endorphin) derived from the same promolecule. To minimize the influence of enzymatic inactivation on relative bioactivities, peptides were coinjected with a combination of peptidase inhibitors previously shown to enhance the actions of dynorphin A fragments in vitro. Dynorphin A-(1-17) and -(2-17) produced dose-related neurological deficits with equal potencies and durations. Although without effect when injected alone, dynorphin A-(1-8), -(1-7) and -(3-8) caused transient motor dysfunction when co-injected with peptidase inhibitors. In contrast, dynorphin A-(1-6), -(1-5) and -(6-17) did not disrupt hindlimb motor function with or without peptidase inhibition. Dynorphin B, alpha-neo-endorphin and beta-neo-endorphin also caused hindlimb dysfunction which was potentiated by peptidase inhibition. These deficits appeared to result from non-opioid actions of these three peptides, since they were not blocked by the opioid antagonist naloxone. Thus, the paralytic effects of dynorphin A: (1) result from non-opioid actions involving the 3-7 or 3-8 positions of the molecule, and (2) are shared by other prodynorphin-derived opioid peptides.
The macaque neocortex is very densely innervated by serotonin-containing fibers. The highest density of these fibers is in primary sensory regions such as the primary visual cortex. By using an antibody against serotonin, we analyzed the distribution and morphology of serotonin-immunoreactive fibers and synapses in the primary visual cortex of the adult cynomolgus monkey. In addition, we quantified the laminar distribution of labeled varicosities and the distances between varicosities in single fibers. While serotonin-immunoreactive fibers are found in all cortical layers, at least three bands of heightened density of innervation were readily recognized that were coincident with 1) layer IIIB to IVC alpha, 2) layer VA, and 3) layer VIB. Layer IVC alpha of area 17 contained more varicosities per unit area than any other sublayer. There was a high degree of variability in the intervaricosity distances along single fibers; more than half were longer than 10 microns. At the electron microscopic level, synaptic contacts were also observed throughout the entire thickness of area 17, with the highest frequency in layer IV. The labeled varicosities were packed with electron-lucent synaptic vesicles and formed synaptic complexes with small, but conspicuous, post-synaptic densities. Dendritic shafts were the most common postsynaptic target of the labeled synapses. Among these characteristically slender post-synaptic shafts, profiles with structural features of both spiny and smooth dendrites were observed. The small diameter of most of the postsynaptic dendrites indicated that distal dendrites were preferentially contacted by serotonin-immunoreactive varicosities. Although direct identification of the postsynaptic neurons will be required for complete characterization of this circuitry, the distribution of serotonin-immunoreactive varicosities suggests that serotoninergic interactions in the primary visual cortex of the cynomolgus monkey are directed predominantly at the distal dendrites of granular and infragranular neurons rather than at targets in the supragranular layers.
In the present study, stereological techniques applied to electron micrographs of the molecular layer of the rat cerebellum have been used to estimate the number of parallel fiber synapses on the dendritic tree of a single Purkinje cell. Quantitative features of the parallel fiber to Purkinje cell dendritic spine synapses and of the parallel fibers were investigated as a preliminary to estimating the number of synapses. Parallel fiber to Purkinje cell synapses are flattened disclike structures with a mean axial ratio of 14.7 and a mean diameter of 319 microns in fixed tissue. The density of synapses in our fixed material was 8.17 x 10(8) per microliters of molecular layer. Determination of the length density of the synapses per unit area of micrograph indicated a synapse density of 8.03 x 10(8) per microliters. These densities give a total number of synapses per Purkinje cell of 1.74 x 10(5) and 1.71 x 10(5), respectively. Estimation of the number of parallel fiber varicosities and of varicosity length gave a density of 9.31 x 10(8) varicosities per microliters of molecular layer and determining the mean number of parallel fiber to Purkinje cell synapses per varicosity gave a synapse density of 9.82 x 10(8) per microliters, equivalent to 2.09 x 10(5) per Purkinje cell. The reasons why this estimate is likely to be too high are discussed. We conclude that there are some 175,000 parallel fiber synapses on an individual Purkinje cell dendritic tree in the cerebellar cortex of the rat, considerably more than previously reported.
The number of spines on an individual Purkinje cell in the cerebellar cortex of the rat was determined by stereological methods. Investigations were based on thin section electron micrographs, freeze fracture replicas, and horseradish peroxidase labeled cells. Purkinje cell dendritic spines in our embedded material had a mean length of 1.4 +/- 0.05 micron and mean neck and head diameters of 0.22 +/- 0.01 micron and 0.45 +/- 0.02 micron, respectively. From these dimensions, an estimate of spine volume in embedded material of 0.132 micron 3 was obtained. The density of dendritic spines in our fixed material was 8.15 x 10(8) or 7.24 x 10(8) per microliters of molecular layer from volume fraction and density per mm2, respectively. The number of spines per linear micron of Purkinje cell spiny branchlet was 17.2 from freeze fracture and 17.6 from horseradish peroxidase labeled dendrites. These all indicate that there are between 154,000 and 175,000 spines on the dendritic tree of each Purkinje cell, considerably more than previously reported for the rat.
The numerical densities of granule and Purkinje cells in the cerebellar cortex of the rat were determined by stereological methods. The density of Purkinje cells in our fixed material was 1,018 +/- 39 per mm2 (mean +/- s.e.m.) of Purkinje cell layer and that of granule cells 1.92 +/- 0.03 x 10(6) per microliter of granular layer. The total area of Purkinje cell layer was 332 mm2 and the volume of granular layer was 48 microliters. The rat cerebellum therefore contains 3.38 x 10(5) Purkinje cells and 9.2 x 10(7) granule cells, from which there are 274 granule cells for each Purkinje cell. The density of granule cells and the density of parallel fibers in the molecular layer observed in a companion study indicate that the average length of a parallel fiber is around 5 mm.
Two visuospatial phenomena, serial search and inhibition of return, have recently gained the attention of scientists from such diverse disciplines as neuroscience, artificial intelligence and cognitive psychology. A linear increase in search latency with increasing display size has been assumed to reflect serial focused attention to each item in the display. A delay in the detection of a signal in a previously attended location has been assumed to reflect an inhibitory process that may be used to prevent attention from returning to the same stimulus. The following study of human performance supports these assumptions and, by demonstrating that inhibition of return operates in serial search, presumably to improve search efficiency, provides a functional link between these two phenomena.
Chronic blockade of the dopamine (DA) D2 receptor by repeated systemic administration of the butyrophenone neuroleptic, haloperidol (HAL), is known to lead to a decrease in levels of the neuroactive peptide, substance P (SP), in the rat striatum and substantia nigra (SN). Using a high-resolution, quantitative radioimmunocytochemistry (RIC) technique, we have shown the HAL-induced decrease in rat nigral SP to be both dose- and time-dependent. In addition, chronic administration of the highly selective D2 antagonist, S(-)-sulpiride, also decreased nigral SP. Following blockade of the dopamine D1 receptor by chronic administration of the selective D1 antagonist, SCH 23390, we found, in contrast, that levels of SP in SN were increased in a dose- and time-dependent fashion. The magnitude of the maximum SCH 23390-induced elevation (20-30%) of nigral SP was approximately equal to that of the maximum HAL-induced decrease. The opposite response of nigral SP levels to repeated injections of a D1 or D2 antagonist suggests that the two DA receptor subtypes exert tonic, opposing, modulatory influences on the SP content of the striatonigral pathway.

A three-compartment model was derived to analyze solute exchange among plasma, peripheral nerve epineurium, and endoneurium. The model was fit to measured tibial-nerve epineurial and endoneurial contents of [14C]sucrose after intravenous bolus injection of tracer in pentobarbital sodium-anesthetized rats. The transfer constant (K) for tracer at epineurial vessels approximated 1.1 X 10(-3) ml.s-1.g whole-nerve-1. K at the blood-nerve barrier (BNB) equaled 1.36-1.51 X 10(-5) ml.s-1.g endoneurium-1. The endoneurial uptake data were analyzed also by a simplified two-compartment model incorporating solute exchange between plasma and endoneurium. K at the BNB (1.46 X 10(-5) ml.s-1.g endoneurium-1), determined by multiple uptake time graphic analysis, was only threefold greater than K at the blood-brain barrier. The transfer constant at the perineurium alone was determined in situ and equaled (1 X 10(-6) ml.s-1.g endoneurium-1. Calculated permeability coefficients (X 10(-8) cm/s) equaled 3.2 at the perineurium, 23 at the endoneurial capillaries, and 3.2 at the brain vasculature. The results demonstrate that for hydrophilic nonelectrolytes 1) flux across the perineurium contributes significantly to solute uptake from plasma into the endoneurium; 2) although nerve capillaries are more permeable than brain capillaries, the tissues of the BNB function as a unit to markedly restrict solute diffusion into the endoneurium; and 3) a two-compartment analysis accurately describes hydrophilic solute transfer from plasma into peripheral nerve.


Recent findings suggest that peripheral epinephrine enhancement of memory storage may be mediated in part by an increase in circulating glucose levels subsequent to epinephrine release or injection. Because glucose, unlike epinephrine, has ready access to the central nervous system, it is possible that glucose acts directly on central processes to enhance memory. To test this possibility, rats were trained on a one-trial inhibitory avoidance task and received immediate or delayed injections of glucose in artificial cerebrospinal fluid. On retention tests 24 hr after training, animals that received 3 or 5 micrograms glucose (in 1 microl cerebrospinal fluid over 3 min) had significantly enhanced performance of the learned response. These findings are consistent with the view that glucose can regulate the storage of new information by acting on central processes. Whether there are additional peripheral contributions to glucose effects on memory remains to be determined.
Brattleboro rats are homozygous for diabetes insipidus (HO-DI), lacking the ability to synthesize vasopressin. Besides increasing water consumption, HO-DI rats may compensate for their excessive renal water loss by reducing their intake of and preference for substances that elevate plasma osmolarity. In two experiments we assessed this possibility. In Experiment 1, salt preference of HO-DI and control Long-Evans (LE) rats was measured by presenting the rats with two tubes: one filled with water and the other with NaCl. In the first part of the experiment, 18 NaCl concentrations were presented in increasing order (from 6 to 300 mM). In the second part, other groups of HO-DI and LE rats were presented with 6 concentrations of NaCl, ranging from 6 to 450 mM in either increasing or decreasing order of concentrations. In Experiment 2, preference for 6 concentrations of citric acid ranging from 0.1 to 6 mM was assessed. With NaCl concentrations greater than 100 mM, intake and preference declined rapidly for the HO-DI group but very gradually for the LE group. In contrast, the HO-DI rats preferred all citric acid solutions more than LE rats. The results suggest that HO-DI rats compensate for their inability to concentrate urine not only by increasing water consumption, but also by decreasing consumption of and preference for salty solutions.
Inositol-1,4-bisphosphatase has been purified 13,000-fold from bovine brain supernatant. The enzyme is monomeric, with an apparent subunit Mr of 40,000. Maximal hydrolytic rates were observed in Tris buffer, pH 7.8, in the presence of 9 mM-Mg2+. The enzyme acted as a 1-phosphatase, hydrolysing both inositol 1,4-bisphosphate [Ins(1,4)P2] (Km 0.04 mM) and inositol 1,3,4-trisphosphate [Ins(1,3,4)P3] (Km 0.5 mM) to inositol 4-phosphate and inositol 3,4-bisphosphate respectively. Li+ inhibited the hydrolysis of both substrates in an uncompetitive manner, with apparent Ki values of 9.63 mM and 0.46 mM for Ins(1,4)P2 and Ins(1,3,4)P3 respectively.
This paper examines two methodological issues concerning the N2 component of human event-related potentials. The first issue concerns the circumstance that the most common way to obtain N2 in discrimination tasks is with an infrequent deviant stimulus that mismatches a frequent, standard stimulus. In these studies it is not possible to disentangle the effects of stimulus probability and stimulus mismatch on N2. In the present study it was found that, if two stimuli regularly alternate, N2 is elicited by infrequent repetitions of either stimulus. Thus, N2 is elicited by infrequent stimulus matches as well as infrequent stimulus mismatches. The second issue concerns the effect of stimulus probability on N2. Whereas previous research has established that the amplitude of N2 is inversely related to stimulus probability, the present study found that the number of possible targets in a visual discrimination task also has effects on N2 amplitude, with the overall probability of targets kept constant. Increasing the number of targets was associated with an increase in the duration of N2 and a differential enhancement of N2 at fronto-central as opposed to posterior-lateral recording sites. The latter results provide further evidence for the existence of two visual N2 components and tentative grounds for differentiating N2 from N400.
1. Effects of taurine on primary afferent terminals in the frog spinal cord were examined by a sucrose-gap method applied to a dorsal root (9th or 10th segment). 2. In a normal Ringer solution, taurine (1 mM, applied for 5s at a rate of 0.04 ml s-1, 0.2 mumol) caused a hyperpolarization, but a higher concentration (10 mM, applied at the same rate, 2.0 mumol) caused a biphasic response consisting of a hyperpolarization followed by a slow onset depolarization. A similar biphasic response could also be observed in tetrodotoxin-treated preparations. 3. When the concentration of extracellular Mg2+ was increased up to 9.0 mM, the depolarizing response to taurine was augmented. The rate of the augmentation was dependent upon the extracellular Mg2+ concentration. 4. The depolarizing effect was selectively antagonized by bicuculline in concentrations (10-30 microM) that had no significant antagonizing action on gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-induced depolarization. On the other hand the hyperpolarizing effect of taurine was selectively reduced by strychnine (0.1 microM) which had no antagonizing effect on responses to glycine. 5. These results suggest that in the frog spinal cord there are at least two subtypes of taurine receptor whose pharmacological profiles resemble GABA and glycine receptors in the mammalian central nervous system, and whose sensitivity may be modulated by extracellular Mg2+.
Thirty-nine patients with DSM-III diagnoses of schizophrenia were examined for age disorientation, an inability to produce one's correct chronological age upon request. Six patients were age-disoriented and demented (as defined by Mini-Mental State evaluation), while two patients had delusions concerning their age, but were not demented. Age-disoriented, demented patients had very large cerebral ventricles and very low Mini-Mental State scores. This group differed on the cognitive and neuroanatomic variables from other demented, but not age-disoriented, patients, as well as from non-demented patients who were age-oriented. The age-disoriented patients appeared to be at an extreme end of the dementia spectrum in schizophrenia.
Patients with early stage Parkinson's disease are shown to be selectively impaired in a cognitive task of procedural learning while remaining intact in recall and recognition tests of declarative memory. In contrast, amnestic patients showed the opposite set of deficits, thus demonstrating a double dissociation. Patients with early Huntington's disease were either comparable to the parkinsonian patients or to amnestics. In the advanced Huntington's group, both procedural learning and declarative memory were impaired. It is argued that cognitive procedural learning depends on the establishment of heuristic strategies through the action of a circuit which involves the neostriatum and the prefrontal cortex.
Ependyma adjacent to the goldfish preoptic neurosecretory nucleus was examined with transmission electron microscopy. Ependymal cells adjoining the rostroventral end of the nucleus were spindle-shaped with their long axes perpendicular to the ventricular surface. Gap junctions and desmosomes were common near the apical (ventricular) ends of these cells, and less frequent laterally in the ependymal layer. Ependymal cells in more caudodorsal preoptic regions (adjacent to large neurosecretory cells) were progressively more pleomorphic. The frequent occurrence of apparently internalized gap junctions and of gap junction fragments enclosed within lysosome-like organelles indicated extensive turnover of these junctions, or uncoupling. Ependymal cells in the caudodorsal region formed gap junctions on their lateral and basal (abluminal) surfaces with glial processes containing bundles of intermediate filaments. Subependymally, these processes (presumptive radial glia) were parallel to one another and coupled together by gap junctions. Neurites containing dense core vesicles occasionally invaginated into ependymal cells in the caudal region, but did not appear to form gap junctions. Previous observations indicate continuing maturation and growth of the goldfish preoptic area with neurosecretory cell formation rostroventrally and a rostroventral to caudodorsal gradient of maturation. The present findings suggest a parallel and related gradient in preoptic ependyma. Ependymal cell differentiation possibly involves loss of gap junctions, and radial migration or differentiation into underlying neurons and glia.

The pharmacologic aspects of erection, including neuropharmacology and erectile responses to exogenous agents, are reviewed. The pharmacology of erection is complex and still incompletely understood. Older evidence suggesting acetylcholine as the primary neurotransmitter has been shown to be insufficient. Our recent experiments utilizing strips of human corpus cavernosum indicate the need to consider the roles of other erectogenic substances, such as vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, endothelium-derived relaxation factor (EDRF), and prostaglandins. From the results of these studies, three stages in the development of an erection are postulated: (1) withdrawal of alpha-adrenergic neuromuscular activity, (2) inhibition of alpha-adrenergic neuromuscular activity by endogenous substances such as prostaglandin E1 and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, and (3) activation of NANC neurotransmission and direct relaxation of smooth muscle by endogenous substances such as EDRF.
Monkeys were trained in auditory discrimination tasks resembling human paradigms in which long-latency endogenous components, such as P300, are typically recorded. Morphological, topographical, and functional properties of the monkey event-related potentials (ERPs) were analyzed to determine similarities and differences with human ERPs reported in the literature. ERPs were recorded from epidural electrodes in monkeys trained to produce operant responses. In a conditional discrimination (CD) task, tone pips (2 kHz or 6 kHz, 40 msec duration, and 60 dB above nHL) were presented every 4-8 sec. Target tones presented during 'time-in' (TI) were rewarded when followed by a response in the correct post-stimulus interval (400-3000 msec). In contrast, tones presented during 'time-out' (TO) were not rewarded. Under both conditions, tones elicited an initial frontally dominant triphasic complex (P56-N92-P157). Additionally, TI target tones followed by a response elicited a large negativity (N358) having maximal amplitude over mid-frontal regions and followed by a parietally distributed positivity (P658). The scalp distribution and covariation with task requirements of N358 resemble those reported for the human 'O' wave. ERPs were also recorded in an auditory oddball paradigm in which tone pips (2 kHz and 6 kHz, 40 msec duration, and 60 dB above nHL) were presented in random order every second. Monkeys trained in the CD paradigm, along with additional subjects, were trained to make delayed responses following target tones embedded in a background of different-pitch tones. Tone probabilities were varied in different sessions from 90-10, 70-30, to 50-50 to assess the effects of probability. Background and target tones elicited a triphasic complex (P52-N110-P159) similar in latency and distribution to that recorded in the CD task. Additionally, target tones in this paradigm elicited a long-latency positive component (LPC) that exhibited an inverse relationship with stimulus probability. LPC had an onset latency of approximately 150-200 msec, a duration of approximately 300 msec, and multiple peaks (P244 and P376). These data indicate the importance of stimulus context in eliciting long-latency endogenous activity. It further suggests that strong analogies exist between monkey and human potentials recorded under similar paradigms. The effects of task relevance, stimulus probability, and the act of producing behavioral responses are similar to the effects of these variables on analogous human potentials.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Intracellular transport of two lysosomal enzymes, acid alpha-glucosidase and beta-hexosaminidase, was analyzed in human fibroblasts. The precursors of beta-hexosaminidase in normal fibroblasts were released from the membrane fraction by treatment with mannose 6-phosphate, but the precursor of alpha-glucosidase was not. Percoll density gradient centrifugation revealed a normal amount of acid alpha-glucosidase activity in heavy lysosomes in I-cell disease fibroblasts despite impaired maturation and defective phosphorylation, and beta-hexosaminidase activity was markedly reduced in lysosomes. It was concluded that the membrane-bound precursor of acid alpha-glucosidase is transported to lysosomes by a phosphomannosyl receptor-independent system although the enzyme lacks the recognition marker for the phosphomannosyl receptor and processing of an intermediate form to mature forms does not occur in this disease.
Monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies raised against algal centrin, a protein of algal striated flagellar roots, were used to characterize the occurrence and distribution of this protein in interphase and mitotic Chlamydomonas cells. Chlamydomonas centrin, as identified by Western immunoblot procedures, is a low molecular (20,000-Mr) acidic protein. Immunofluorescence and immunogold labeling demonstrates that centrin is a component of the distal fiber. In addition, centrin-based flagellar roots link the flagellar apparatus to the nucleus. Two major descending fibers extend from the basal bodies toward the nucleus; each descending fiber branches several times giving rise to 8-16 fimbria which surround and embrace the nucleus. Immunogold labeling indicates that these fimbria are juxtaposed to the outer nuclear envelope. Earlier studies have demonstrated that the centrin-based linkage between the flagellar apparatus and the nucleus is contractile, both in vitro and in living Chlamydomonas cells (Wright, R. L., J. Salisbury, and J. Jarvik. 1985. J. Cell Biol. 101:1903-1912; Salisbury, J. L., M. A. Sanders, and L. Harpst. 1987. J. Cell Biol. 105:1799-1805). Immunofluorescence studies show dramatic changes in distribution of the centrin-based system during mitosis that include a transient contraction at preprophase; division, separation, and re-extension during prophase; and a second transient contraction at the metaphase/anaphase boundary. These observations suggest a fundamental role for centrin in motile events during mitosis.
Sertraline is a member of a new class of psychotherapeutic agents that selectively inhibit serotonin reuptake in the brain. Animal studies have demonstrated that inhibition of serotonin reuptake leads to enhanced serotonergic neurotransmission and indirectly results in a down-regulation of beta-adrenoceptors. The preclinical pharmacology of sertraline predicts antidepressant activity without accompanying anticholinergic, cardiotonic, or sedative side effects. Recent laboratory and clinical observations pertaining to body weight and obsessive compulsive disorder suggest the possibility of broader clinical indications for selective serotonin reuptake blockers such as sertraline.
The distribution of neural inputs to the paraventricular (PVH) and supraoptic (SO) nuclei from the regions of the A1, the A2, and the A6 (locus coeruleus) noradrenergic cell groups was investigated by using a plant lectin, Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin (PHA-L), as an anterogradely transported tracer. An immunofluorescence double-labeling procedure was used to determine the extent to which individual anterogradely labeled fibers and terminals in the PVH and the SO also displayed immunoreactive dopamine-beta-hydroxylase (DBH), a marker for catecholaminergic neurons. The results may be summarized as follows: (1) Projections from the A1 region were found primarily, and in some experiments almost exclusively, in those parts of the magnocellular division of the PVH and the SO known to contain vasopressinergic neurons. (2) Projections from the A2 region were distributed primarily throughout the parvicellular division of the PVH and were most dense in the dorsal medial part, a region known to contain a prominent population of corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF)-immunoreactive neurons. In addition, a less-dense projection to the magnocellular division of the PVH and to the SO was consistently found. (3) Fibers originating from the locus coeruleus were distributed almost exclusively to the parvicellular division of the PVH, with the most prominent input localized to the periventricular zone, a part of the PVH known to contain dopamine-, somatostatin-, and thyrotropin-releasing-hormone-containing neurons. We found no evidence for a projection from A6 to the SO. (4) The majority of fibers originating from the A1, the A2 or the A6 regions contained DBH immunoreactivity, although an appreciable number did not. These results suggest that each of the three brainstem noradrenergic cell groups that contribute to the innervation of the PVH and/or the SO is in a position to modulate the activity of anatomically and chemically distinct groups of neurosecretory neurons.
1. An in vitro preparation of the medullary pacemaker nucleus of the weakly electric fish Apteronotus leptorhynchus was studied which fires regularly and synchronously at the fish's characteristic frequency of electric organ discharge (EOD). Upon bipolar stimulation of tissue regions through which pass prepacemaker nucleus afferents to the pacemaker, a brief, transient increase in discharge frequency ensued at short-latency (Fig. 1A). 2. Intracellular recordings revealed that the acceleration was accompanied by a depolarization and decline in action potential amplitude. The magnitude of these changes was both phase- (Fig. 5) and amplitude-dependent, with the latter showing an evident threshold effect (Figs. 4 and 12). The response was reversibly blocked by high Mg2+ saline (Fig. 1B), and the magnitude of the accelerations showed marked facilitation during repeated stimulation (Fig. 6). 3. Optical and histological identification allowed characteristically different responses in the intracellular recordings to be attributed to the two cell types of the pacemaker nucleus: pacemaker and relay cells (Figs. 2 and 3). Similar responses have been observed at these respective recording locations in the intact animal during chirping (Dye and Heiligenberg 1987). 4. Simultaneous recordings of pairs of cells revealed a transient change in the phase relationship of firing during the accelerations which was most marked between relay and pacemaker cells (Fig. 7). These dual recordings also revealed that the relay cells depolarize and accelerate more than pacemaker cells (Fig. 10), suggesting that they are the principal effectors of this behavioral modulation. 5. Trains of pulses additionally elicited a long-lasting frequency elevation which occurred at a slightly higher threshold than the brief accelerations. This slow frequency change relaxed back to baseline following a biexponential time course which closely resembled that of a distinct behavior seen in intact fish, termed 'yodeling' (Dye 1987).
The binding of alpha-[3H]amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid ([3H]AMPA), a structural Glu analog, to rat striatal membranes was studied. In the absence of potassium thiocyanate and Cl-/Ca2+, saturation-curve analysis of [3H]AMPA binding suggested that a single class of noninteracting binding sites with a KD value of 340 +/- 27 nM was involved, although AMPA inhibition of [3H]AMPA binding set at a concentration of 100 nM suggested, in contrast, the presence of multiple populations of striatal binding sites. Several other excitatory amino acid receptor agonists and antagonists were tested, and the most potent and selective quisqualic acid (QA) receptor agonists (QA, L-Glu, and AMPA) were found to represent the most potent inhibitors of [3H]AMPA binding. N-Methyl-D-aspartate receptor agonists and antagonists were ineffective as displacers of the [3H]AMPA binding. Lesions of intrastriatal neurons (using kainic acid local injections) and of corticostriatal afferent fibers led 2-3 weeks later to large decreases (63 and 30%, respectively) in striatal [3H]AMPA binding, whereas selective lesion of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway (using nigral injection of 6-hydroxy-dopamine) was without any influence. Taken together, these results suggest that [3H]AMPA binding is primarily associated with postsynaptic intrastriatal neurons. Some [3H]AMPA binding sites may also be located presynaptically on corticostriatal nerve endings. So, in addition to the possibility that [3H]AMPA binding sites may be involved in corticostriatal synaptic transmission, it is interesting that these putative QA-preferring excitatory amino acid receptor sites may also play some role in autoregulatory processes underlying this excitatory synaptic transmission.
Quisqualate, a glutamate analogue, displaced L-[3H]glutamate binding in a biphasic manner, corresponding to &quot;high-affinity&quot; and &quot;low-affinity&quot; binding sites. High-affinity quisqualate sites were termed &quot;quisqualate-sensitive L-[3H]glutamate&quot; binding sites. Quisqualate-sensitive L-[3H]glutamate binding was regionally distributed, with the highest levels present in the cerebellar molecular layer. This binding was stimulated by millimolar concentrations of chloride and calcium. The stimulatory effects of calcium required the presence of chloride ions, whereas chloride's stimulatory effects did not require calcium. All of the L-[3H]glutamate binding stimulated by chloride/calcium was quisqualate sensitive and only weakly displaced by N-methyl-D-aspartate, L-aspartate, or kainate. At high concentrations (1 mM), the anion blockers 4-acetamido-4'-isothiocyanostilbene-2,2'-disulfonic acid and 4,4'-diisothiocyanatostilbene-2,2'-disulfonic acid both reduced, by 41 and 43%, respectively, the stimulatory effects of chloride. At concentrations of 100 microM, kynurenate, L-aspartate, (RS)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA), and L-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid (L-APB) failed to displace quisqualate-sensitive L-[3H]glutamate binding in the cerebellar molecular layer. In the presence of KSCN, however, 100 microM AMPA displaced 44% of binding. Quisqualate-sensitive L-[3H]glutamate binding was not sensitive to freezing, and, in contrast to other chloride- and calcium-dependent L-[3H]glutamate binding sites that have been reported, quisqualate-sensitive binding observed by autoradiography was enhanced at 4 degrees C compared with 37 degrees C. Quisqualate-sensitive L-[3H]glutamate binding likely represents binding to the subclass of postsynaptic neuronal glutamate receptors known as quisqualate receptors, rather than binding to previously described APB receptors, chloride-driven sequestration into vesicles, or binding to astrocytic membrane binding sites.
Significant differences in the thermal stability of benzodiazepine receptors were found in cerebral cortical membranes prepared from the long-sleep (LS) and short-sleep (SS) selected mouse lines. Thus, benzodiazepine receptors from LS mice were heat inactivated (55 degrees C) at a significantly faster rate than those from SS mice. Although gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) reduced the rate of heat inactivation in both lines, the more rapid rate of inactivation in the LS line was maintained. Furthermore, the potency of GABA to enhance [3H]flunitrazepam binding decreased threefold in membranes from LS mice as the incubation temperature was increased from 0 degrees to 37 degrees C, but was unaltered in membranes from SS mice. These differences in the biophysical properties of the benzodiazepine/GABA receptor chloride channel complex (&quot;supramolecular complex&quot;), together with a higher KD for t-[35S]butylbicyclophosphorothionate in membranes from LS compared to SS mice, suggest that the supramolecular complex may modulate the differential sensitivity to some depressants and convulsants in these lines.
A 3.3-kilobase DNA complementary to human microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2) was sequenced by the dideoxy method. The 3' end terminates at an internal EcoRI site before the polyA tail. Due to the arrangement of the cDNA insert in the lambda gt11 vector, the MAP2 fragment is not fused to beta-galactosidase when expressed. The Chou Fasman algorithm for the initial 58 amino acids from the first in-frame methionine predicts an alpha helix. Beyond this point, a series of turns is predicted until amino acid 160. The frequent presence of basic residues in proximity to serines or threonines is consistent with multiple phosphorylation sites. The minimum specificity determinant for Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent kinase is repeated 13 times. The sequence of a region containing a MAP2 epitope that is shared with the Alzheimer neurofibrillary tangle was determined by DNase treatment of the cDNA and antibody selecting the small resultant clones in a lambda gt11 sublibrary. Likewise, a MAP2 epitope that is not shared with the neurofibrillary tangle also has been located. Both epitopes are in the projection portion of the molecule. A bovine MAP2 cyanogen bromide fragment, which contains the epitope shared with the neurofibrillary tangle, is partially insoluble under aqueous conditions, probably due to the aggregation of oppositely charged residues. Thus, rapid cleavage of MAP2 to small peptides is probably necessary in vivo to prevent the aggregation of larger cleavage fragments.
The concentrations of catecholamine and indoleamine metabolites were measured in intact and adrenalectomized mice to determine whether adrenal hormones mediate or modulate the stress-induced responses. Thirty minutes of footshock resulted in significant increases of the ratios of the dopamine (DA) catabolite, dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC), to DA in prefrontal cortex, nucleus accumbens, striatum, hypothalamus, and brainstem, and of homovanillic (HVA)/DA ratios in nucleus accumbens, striatum, amygdala, and hypothalamus. Ratios of 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylethyleneglycol to norepinephrine (NE) were also increased in prefrontal cortex, nucleus accumbens, septum, amygdala, hypothalamus, hippocampus, and brainstem. The concentration of NE was decreased in amygdala. 5-Hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA)/5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT, serotonin) ratios and free tryptophan were also increased in every brain region. Very similar data were obtained from mice restrained for 30 min. Adrenalectomy resulted in increased HVA/DA ratios in prefrontal cortex and striatum, and 5-HIAA/5-HT in septum. The stress-related changes were largely similar in adrenalectomized mice. Significant interactions between adrenalectomy and footshock treatment occurred in prefrontal cortical DOPAC/DA and hypothalamic NE which was depleted only in adrenalectomized mice, suggesting tendencies for these measures to be more responsive in adrenalectomized mice. Corticosterone administration (0.5-2.0 mg/kg s.c.) which resulted in plasma concentrations in the physiological range did not alter the concentrations of the cerebral metabolites measured in any region. We conclude that adrenal hormones do not mediate cerebral catecholamine or indoleamine metabolism in stress, although adrenalectomy may affect HVA and 5-HIAA metabolism, and there was a tendency for catecholamines to be more sensitive to stress in adrenalectomized animals.
1. We have investigated how the organization of the cutaneus trunci muscle (CTM) motor nucleus might correspond to the pattern of its physiological activation (see accompanying report, 61) by using HRP to label retrogradely the motoneurons supplying different anatomically and physiologically defined muscle compartments. The CTM motoneuron pool was found to be comprised of a tightly packed column of ventrolaterally located cells extending from caudal C6 to rostral T1 and to contain 1,183 cells per side; this unusually large number of motoneurons is consistent with the precisely localized reflex behavior exhibited by the muscle. 2. Each of three major motor nerves that functionally divide the CTM into three major longitudinal muscle fields (dorsal, lateral, ventral) was found to derive from a distinct subcolumn of motoneurons, which extends for the full rostrocaudal length of the parent CTM motor nucleus, such that the dorsal motor nerves derive from a medially located subcolumn, the lateral motor nerves from a centrally located subcolumn, and the ventral motor nerves from a subcolumn of motoneurons that sits most laterally in the CTM motor nucleus. 3. Localized injections of HRP into different rostrocaudal regions of the muscle revealed a further subdivision of the CTM motor nucleus: motoneurons located rostrally in the motoneuron pool supplied the rostral regions of the muscle, whereas more caudally located motoneurons in the pool supplied progressively more caudal sites in the muscle. 4. These results reveal the existence of both a mediolateral and a rostrocaudal subdivision of the motor nucleus; thus this intrinsic spatial organization of motoneurons relates the CTM motor nucleus topographically to the body coordinates of its target, the muscle. The possible relation of these findings to the expression of local sign in the CTM reflex, and how the underlying circuitry could develop appropriately, is discussed.
1. The cutaneus trunci muscle (CTM) is a thin broad sheet of skeletal muscle that originates bilaterally on the humerus and inserts beneath the dermis of back and flank skin. A nociceptive stimulus applied to the skin elicits a localized reflex contraction in that region of the CTM underlying the site of sensory stimulation. While this &quot;local sign&quot; character of the CTM reflex corresponds to the segmental distribution of the afferent nerves (the dorsal cutaneous nerves, or DCNs) that enter the spinal cord in the lower thoracic and the lumbar levels, the motor output originates entirely from a circumscribed region of the cervical spinal cord. 2. Electrophysiological analysis of EMG activity in the muscle reflexly evoked by direct electrical stimulation of individual DCNs revealed a distinct topographic relationship, in that the shortest latency response of EMG activity in the muscle was consistently located approximately 1.0 cm rostral to the dermatome of the stimulated DCN. 3. Histochemical studies of the CTM show that individual muscle fibers run rostrocaudally, are focally innervated, and in adult rats, are approximately 3.0 cm in length. The major motor nerves exit from the brachial plexus, and functionally they divide the muscle into longitudinal (rostrocaudal) territories, which thus lie orthogonal to the dermatomal pattern of sensory innervation. The localized reflex responses to focal sensory stimuli indicate that the major longitudinal muscle fields contain many &quot;reflex compartments.&quot; 4. The compartmentalized nature of the reflex response in the CTM suggests that nociceptive input from any one sensory dermatome has a preferred access to that fraction of the motoneuron pool that supplies the area of muscle underlying that specific region of skin, i.e., there is a sort of &quot;matching&quot; between groups of primary sensory neurons, interneurons, and motoneurons, which relates to the peripheral location of the stimulated nerve endings and of the muscle fibers that are reflexly activated. Although the partitioning of sensory input to motor nuclei has been shown most clearly for monosynaptic Ia connections, the CTM reflex suggests that sensory partitioning may also be demonstrated in a polysynaptic circuit.
In the medulla of the axolotl (Ambystoma mexicanum), Mauthner cells (M-cells) occur as a pair of large identifiable neurons at the level of entry of the vestibular nerve (nVIII). Each receives synapses from the ipsilateral nVIII; the terminals can be identified as club endings and are restricted to a specific set of M-cell dendritic branches. We have examined these branches for morphologic changes following long-term deafferentation in the presence and absence of nerve regeneration. Deafferentation was brought about in a group of young larvae by unilaterally severing nVIII. The nerve was allowed to regenerate in half of the larvae. In those remaining, the nVIII ganglion was damaged to preclude or limit nerve regeneration. The contralateral side served as control. After 3 months survival, the larvae were killed and the medullae prepared for microscopy. To estimate the extent of nerve regeneration, axons in the experimental nVIII tract were counted and compared with the number in the control. The mean number of axons in the nVIII tract ipsilateral to intact ganglia indicated that 69% of the fibers had regenerated. In contrast, only 31% regenerated in larvae with damaged ganglia. Electron microscopic analysis of selected sections revealed that the mean number of nVIII terminals per section through M-cells ipsilateral to destroyed ganglia was significantly less than the mean number in analogous sections through either control cells or cells ipsilateral to intact ganglia. Control and experimental M-cells were reconstructed from serial sections. Deprived M-cells had significantly reduced dendritic branching patterns in the region that normally receives nVIII input. On the other hand, the extent of branching on cells receiving regenerated afferents from intact ganglia was like that of their contralateral controls. The distribution of dendritic branches on many reinnervated M-cells, however, was broader than that on control cells. Electron microscopic examination of the displaced dendritic branches (those extending into adjacent tracts) revealed that they received vestibular synapses. Thus, in some animals, regenerated vestibular fibers were not restricted to the nVIII tract. Deafferentation of the M-cells results in a reduction of dendritic branches in the region deprived of vestibular contacts.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
In one experiment, we studied the relations between the frequency of discharge of 274 single cells in the arm area of the motor cortex of the monkey and the actively maintained position of the hand in space. We found that the frequency of discharge of 63.9% of the cells studied was a multilinear function of the position of the hand in space according to the following equation (multiple linear regression): d = f + fxsx + fysy + fzsz, where d is the discharge rate of a single cell, f, fx, fy, fz are regression coefficients, and sx, sy, sz are the coordinates of the position of the hand. The equation above defines a positional gradient which implies that the frequency of cell discharge will increase at a maximum rate when the position of the hand changes along a certain direction; we call this direction of orientation of the positional gradient, and the rate of change in discharge rate along this orientation, the magnitude of the gradient. The orientations of the positional gradients were distributed throughout three-dimensional (3-D) space and their magnitudes differed among different cells. In a different experiment, we studied the changes in activity of 289 cells in the arm area of the motor cortex when the monkeys made equal-amplitude movements that started from different points in space, were in the same direction, and traveled along parallel trajectories in 3-D space. Four pairs of such movement directions (i.e., a total of 8 movement directions) were studied for every cell, and the changes in cell activity associated with movements within each pair were compared. We found that these changes in cell activity did not differ statistically for 68.4% of the movement pairs studied but did differ for the remaining 31.6%. The data from the whole population of cells studied in this experiment were analyzed using the population vector analysis described in the preceding paper (Georgopoulos et al., 1988). Thus, 8 population vectors were calculated, 1 for each of the 8 movement directions studied. We found that the direction of the population vector was close to the direction of the corresponding movement. These results indicate that the population vector provides unique information concerning the direction of the movement even when the point of origin of the movement varies in 3-D space.
We describe a code by which a population of motor cortical neurons could determine uniquely the direction of reaching movements in three-dimensional space. The population consisted of 475 directionally tuned cells whose functional properties are described in the preceding paper (Schwartz et al., 1988). Each cell discharged at the highest rate with movements in its &quot;preferred direction&quot; and at progressively lower rates with movements in directions away from the preferred one. The neuronal population code assumes that for a particular movement direction each cell makes a vectorial contribution (&quot;votes&quot;) with direction in the cell's preferred direction and magnitude proportional to the change in the cell's discharge rate associated with the particular direction of movement. The vector sum of these contributions is the outcome of the population code (the &quot;neuronal population vector&quot;) and points in the direction of movement in space well before the movement begins.
We describe the relations between the neuronal activity in primate motor cortex and the direction of arm movement in three-dimensional (3-D) space. The electrical signs of discharge of 568 cells were recorded while monkeys made movements of equal amplitude from the same starting position to 8 visual targets in a reaction time task. The layout of the targets in 3-D space was such that the direction of the movement ranged over the whole 3-D directional continuum in approximately equal angular intervals. We found that the discharge rate of 475/568 (83.6%) cells varied in an orderly fashion with the direction of movement: discharge rate was highest with movements in a certain direction (the cell's &quot;preferred direction&quot;) and decreased progressively with movements in other directions, as a function of the cosine of the angle formed by the direction of the movement and the cell's preferred direction. The preferred directions of different cells were distributed throughout 3-D space. These findings generalize to 3-D space previous results obtained in 2-D space (Georgopoulos et al., 1982) and suggest that the motor cortex is a nodal point in the construction of patterns of output signals specifying the direction of arm movement in extrapersonal space.
The psychotropic amphetamine derivatives 3,4-methylenedioxyamphetamine (MDA) and 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) have been used for recreational and therapeutic purposes in man. In rats, these drugs cause large reductions in brain levels of serotonin (5-HT). This study employs immunocytochemistry to characterize the neurotoxic effects of these compounds upon monoaminergic neurons in the rat brain. Two weeks after systemic administration of MDA or MDMA (20 mg/kg, s.c., twice daily for 4 d), there is profound loss of serotonergic (5-HT) axons throughout the forebrain; catecholamine axons are completely spared. Regional differences in drug toxicity are exemplified by partial sparing of 5-HT axons in hippocampus, lateral hypothalamus, basal forebrain, and in some areas of neocortex. The terminals of 5-HT axons are selectively ablated, while axons of passage and raphe cell bodies are spared. Thickened preterminal fibers exhibit increased staining due to damming-up of neurotransmitter and other axonal constituents. Fine 5-HT axon terminals are extremely vulnerable to these drugs, whereas terminal-like axons with large varicosities survive, raising the possibility that some 5-HT axons may be resistant to the neurotoxic effects. At short survivals, visualization of greatly swollen, fragmented 5-HT axons provides anatomic evidence for degeneration of 5-HT projections. The results establish that MDA and MDMA produce structural damage to 5-HT axon terminals followed by lasting denervation of the forebrain. Both drugs have similar effects, but MDA produces a greater reduction of 5-HT axons than does MDMA at the same dosage. The selective degeneration of 5-HT axons indicates that these drugs may serve as experimental tools to analyze the organization and function of 5-HT projections. Caution should be exercised until further studies determine whether these compounds may be hazardous in man.
Applications using radiotracers and quantitative film autoradiography are increasing dramatically in the neurosciences. Microcomputer-based image analyzing systems with video input have been developed to provide rapid quantification of autoradiographic images on relatively inexpensive systems. However, there has been some question as to whether such systems can reliably produce high levels of densitometric accuracy, especially when compared to mechanical scanners which are standard in research requiring extreme fidelity of measurement. We report methods and results from tests done to determine the analytical and functional accuracy of the Drexel Unix-based Microcomputer image Analysis System (DUMAS), which is a video densitometric system designed to provide quantitative data from autoradiograms. Analytical accuracy was determined by measuring photometric uniformity, the optical density transfer function, temporal stability, geometric uniformity, and flare. In addition, data are provided on the resolution of the system at several magnifications. Functional accuracy, the accuracy of the estimates of mean isotope concentrations in diverse neural structures, was determined by comparing the results obtained on the DUMAS system with the results from analyzing the same [14C]2-deoxyglucose images with two different Optronics P1000 systems. Our results show that, provided care is taken in the choice of a camera and a light source, the analytic accuracy of videodensitometry is high. Its functional accuracy is also high in that measurements of radioisotope concentrations in diverse neural structures made on the DUMAS system agree closely with the measurements from a properly adjusted Optronics P1000 system. The rapidity and economy of videodensitometry is not, therefore, obtained at the sacrifice of densitometric accuracy. Given adequately tested hardware and provided that suitable checks on instrument calibration and adjustment are made, the errors in autoradiographic quantification due to the image analyzing system itself are minor in comparison to other sources of error, including, as we show, variations in the user's delineation of the boundaries of neural structures.
A technique for lowering the noise and hence improving the single-unit recording qualities of carbon fibre microelectrodes is described.
To assist neuroscience nurses in their assessment of the client experiencing syncope, the authors propose use of models derived from the three underlying pathophysiological mechanisms of syncope to guide data collection and documentation. This approach is also useful in educating the client and family, as well as nurses and students about the phenomenon of syncope.
Malignant glioma is a devastating disease which presents a clinical challenge to physicians and neuroscience nurses. It carries a dismal prognosis, with a median survival of only nine months following application of conventional therapies of surgical resection, radiotherapy and chemotherapy. Hyperthermia is the application of sufficient heat to raise the temperature in a volume of tumor to cytocidal levels. Patient tolerance and response to volumetric interstitial hyperthermia treatment in this clinical study of over 40 patients has been extremely encouraging. Hyperthermia, as part of multi-modality treatment of brain tumors, presents a change in the nursing management of this patient population. The neuroscience nurse plays a crucial role in linking clinical observations to decisions of patient management and treatment planning. Because hyperthermia is a new treatment modality, nurses, patients and families require additional education and extended support during therapy.
Ten days after bilateral injections of ibotenic acid into the nucleus basalis, rats injected daily (i.m.) with ganglioside GM1 were protected from anterograde degeneration of cholinergic projections to the fronto-lateral cortex. This protection was reflected by reduced losses (associated with ibotenic acid lesions) of cortical acetylcholinesterase, choline acetyltransferase, and lowered animal mortality.
A high molecular weight, fatty acid- and SDS-sensitive protease named ingensin was purified from rat brain in this study. The enzyme purified from rat brain has the same biochemical properties as those purified from other tissues, e.g., porcine skeletal muscle, human placenta, and rat liver in our laboratory, and rat skeletal muscle and bovine pituitary gland in other laboratories, independently. Immunoblot bands were detected in the same positions as those in the case of ingensin from rat liver. In addition, its topographical distribution was studied in rat brain and muscle by means of the immunohistochemical method. The cytoplasm of motor neurons of the spinal cord, pyramidal cells, and granular cells of the hippocampus, Purkinje cells, and glial cells were stained. Axons were stained. The cytoplasm of muscle was also stained, especially that of type 2 fibers.
125I-Tyr8-substance P binding was examined in a plasma membrane enriched fraction from the circular muscle of canine small intestine. The binding was quick in onset, reversible and saturable to a single high affinity binding site; KD and maximum receptor concentration were 0.50 = 0.06 nM and 742 +/- 173 fmol/mg of protein, respectively. KD values from kinetic and saturation studies were in agreement. The rank order of potency of the tachykinins and related compounds in displacing this binding was consistent with that of a neurokinin (NK)-P (NK-1) type binding site. 125I-eledoisin did not bind specifically to these membranes and eledoisin was relatively ineffective in displacing the 125I-Tyr8 substance P. Kassinin was totally ineffective. Based on relative agonist potencies, the tachykinins appeared to contract the circular muscle of canine small intestine in vitro by a mechanism which also could be considered to be a NK-P (NK-1) type receptor. However, a comparison of data obtained by these two techniques suggests that the NK-P (NK-1) type binding site and the receptor(s) responsible for contractile responses are not identical. There were discrepancies in relative orders of potency and in absolute potencies. The simplest explanation is that there is also an NK-A (NK-2) receptor which is functional but not labeled by our ligands. Possible reasons for these discrepancies are discussed.

A comparison of the effect of bombesin, dermorphin and salmon calcitonin on gastric acid secretion was assayed in rats two hours after their intracerebroventricular or subcutaneous administration. All three peptides significantly reduced gastric acid output after central administration. The order of potency was: bombesin greater than salmon calcitonin greater than dermorphin. After subcutaneous injection salmon calcitonin was very potent in reducing gastric acid output, while dermorphin was active only at high doses; bombesin had a very weak effect on the same parameter. Time-course studies demonstrated that the effect of these peptides reached a peak 1-2 h after their central administration, followed by a slow recovery toward control values. Salmon calcitonin, however, has a very prolonged action on the gastric parameters studied. These data indicate that bombesin and dermorphin might act centrally to modulate gastric acid secretion in the rat, while the very potent intracerebroventricular and subcutaneous action of salmon calcitonin suggests a different mechanism of action.
An in situ hybridization procedure was applied to quantify glucocorticoid receptor (GR) mRNAs in the hippocampus of rat brain. Hybridization was carried out using a radiolabeled antisense probe complementary to the rat liver GR gene. The specificity of the method was validated by showing: 1) a high cellular grain density in sections hybridized with an antisense but not a sense probe; 2) agreement between the experimental and theoretical temperature at which 50% of the hybrids melted, and 3) a high signal distribution of GR mRNA in the hippocampus, a region of brain known to preferentially concentrate steroid hormones. Within the hippocampus, however, subregional differences in hybridization densities were observed. Quantitative autoradiography indicated that the average neuronal silver grain number was highest in the pyramidal cell layers of CA2 and CA4 and lowest in those of CA1 and CA3. Also, there was a significant difference in the average grain number between all of the cell fields except for that between CA2 and CA4. These results show that contiguous but neuroanatomically distinct cell fields of the hippocampus express different levels of GR transcripts, and indicate that differential regulation of GR expression occurs in subpopulations of hippocampal neurons.
Single-channel currents were recorded by means of the patch clamp method in outside-out patches excised from rat cortical neurons in primary culture. The excitatory amino acid N-methyl-D-aspartic acid activated mainly 40-50 pS conductance channels. Channel opening durations were characterized by a series of rapid openings and closures induced by the presence of Mg2+ ions. This inhibitory effect was voltage dependent. Strychnine, the antagonist of the glycine-gated Cl- channels, blocks the N-methyl-D-aspartic acid-activated cationic channel in cultured rat cortical neurons. Strychnine action is voltage dependent and it is not counteracted by ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid, ruling out Mg2+ contamination of strychnine. It has been reported recently that glycine increases the rate of openings of N-methyl-D-aspartic acid-activated channels. This action is not affected by the presence of strychnine. Our results show that 1) Mg2+ and strychnine have an apparently similar intermediate blocking action on the NMDA-activated channels, 2) strychnine presumably acts as a sequential open channel blocker producing a different type of block compared with the one reported for Mg2+ ions, and 3) the lack of effect of strychnine on the glycine potentiation of the N-methyl-D-aspartic acid response indicates that this alkaloid does not competitively antagonize glycine but acts as an open channel blocker.
The release and metabolism of dopamine in the mouse caudate-putamen were determined after the oral administration of antipsychotic drugs at doses equal to or sixfold greater than the ED50 dose for their inhibition of apomorphine-induced climbing. Dopamine release was equated with concentrations of 3-methoxytyramine (3-MT) and metabolism was equated with concentrations of dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) and homovanillic acid (HVA) levels. Like the D-1 antagonists SCH 23390 and SKF 83566, most antipsychotic agents with an atypical preclinical profile suggestive of low extrapyramidal symptomatology (CGS 10746B, flumezapine, CL 77328, rimcazole, clozapine, RMI 81582, and fluperlapine) never increased dopamine release and produced variable increases in dopamine metabolism. Other atypical antipsychotics (thioridazine, mesoridazine, melperone) increased dopamine release at only one dose tested but increased dopamine metabolism at most doses. Antipsychotic agents associated with extrapyramidal side effects (setoperone, perlapine, haloperidol, chlorpromazine, and metoclopramide) increased dopamine release and metabolism at almost every dose tested. Thus, atypical antipsychotics increase the metabolism but not release of dopamine at behaviorally effective doses. The resemblance of these minimal effects on dopamine release to those obtained with D-1 antagonists that also have an atypical preclinical profile suggests that a mechanism related to D-1 receptor antagonism may contribute to the action of atypical antipsychotics.
Recently we reported that adding molybdate to crude steroid-free cytosol at 0 degree C results in a dose-dependent reduction in the binding of [3H]aldosterone ([3H]ALDO) to Type I adrenocorticosteroid receptors. In the experiments outlined here, we found that addition of molybdate to steroid-free brain cytosol produces a 30-50% increase in the subsequently measured maximal specific binding capacity (BMAX) of [3H]ALDO-Type I receptors if the cytosol is subjected to Sephadex G-25 gel filtration prior to steroid addition. These manipulations were found to have no effect on the equilibrium dissociation constant (Kd) of the receptors. In contrast, when gel filtration of steroid-free cytosol was performed in the absence of molybdate, there was a 2-fold increase in the Kd and over a 50% reduction in the subsequently measured BMAX of [3H]ALDO-Type I receptors. When molybdate was added to this steroid-free cytosol immediately following gel filtration, there was no reduction (or increase) in Type I receptor [3H]ALDO binding capacity compared with non-gel-filtered controls. The addition of as little as 2 mM molybdate to crude steroid-free cytosol was found to stabilize the binding capacity of Type I receptors during exposure to 22 degrees C incubations; however, when gel-filtered steroid-free cytosol was exposed to these conditions at least 10 mM molybdate was required to stabilize Type I receptor binding capacity. Adding the sulfhydryl reducing reagent, dithiothreitol, to the various steroid-free cytosols had little effect on [3H]ALDO-Type I receptor binding.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The number of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) receptors is known to vary throughout the estrous cycle and in other endocrine states in the rat. These changes in receptors parallel closely the concentrations of serum estradiol during the cycle. In the present study, we used two different cytochemical techniques to determine if changes in GnRH receptors represented alterations in the number of GnRH-receptive cells. Furthermore, we tested the effects of estradiol pretreatment on this phenomenon. Dispersed pituitary monolayers taken at different stages of the cycle were stimulated for 3 min with 1 nM biotinylated [D-lys6]-GnRH (bio-GnRH) which was localized using the avidin-biotin-peroxidase complex (ABC) technique and a black peroxidase substrate. Parallel groups were stained, while living, with an avidin-fluorescein conjugate. Some monolayers were pretreated with physiological concentrations of estradiol benzoate (1 nM-1 pM) prior to bio-GnRH exposure and ABC stains. The resulting stains demonstrated that the percentage of bio-GnRH-receptive cells was 2-3 times greater at 10.00 h proestrus (20.2 +/- 4%) when compared to the same time in estrus (8.7 +/- 2%), diestrus I (5.2 +/- 0.5%), diestrus II (7.6 +/- 1%), and at 17.00 h diestrus II (11.4 +/- 0.9%) and proestrus (7.4 +/- 0.8%). These data correlated well with those obtained from living gonadotropes stained with avidin-fluorescein. Estradiol exerted a biphasic effect dependent upon the stage of the cycle at which the cells were taken.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Ten carefully screened men with very mild symptoms of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and ten healthy controls of similar age were compared on multiple chemosensory tasks: odor detection and identification, and taste detection. The patients scored significantly worse than controls on identification of odors and of a subset of airborne stimuli providing trigeminal stimulation. In contrast, the patients' olfactory detection thresholds as well as taste detection thresholds were not impaired relative to those of controls. The patients' scores on neuropsychological tests and the results 18F-2 deoxy-D-glucose PET studies did not correlate with any of the chemosensory measures. The isolated odor identification deficit suggests that the initial chemosensory impairment in AD is central rather than peripheral.
Twenty-four medically refractory seizure patients, who did not qualify for excisional surgery, had anterior two-thirds corpus callosum section. Three to 11 years' postoperative follow-up suggests that this procedure can (1) lateralize a frontal lobe focus, which may lead to subsequent localized excision and (2) significantly reduce seizure frequency and severity in 75% of the patients without giving any permanent neurologic deficits. Patients with an ictal focus confined to one frontal lobe did best (8/8 improved), followed by patients with secondarily generalized seizures and multifocal bilateral foci (5/6 improved). Patients with mental retardation benefited less frequently (5/10 improved), but 4/4 from this group with ictal falls associated with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome did benefit. In this series, the improvements following the anterior partial section were lasting if present at 1 year of follow-up. Anterior corpus callosum section should be considered as a diagnostic (lateralizing) and therapeutic option in appropriately defined medically refractory patients who do not qualify for excisional surgery.
We measured CSF alpha-melanocyte stimulating hormone-like immunoreactivity (alpha-MSH-LI) in 35 patients with dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT) and in 27 healthy control subjects. Mean alpha-MSH-LI concentration was significantly decreased in DAT patients as compared with age-matched controls. However, when the DAT patients were analyzed according to age at onset of dementia or presence of extrapyramidal signs, alpha-MSH-LI concentrations remained significantly lower than in controls only in DAT patients with late onset of dementia (greater than 65 years of age). No correlation was found between alpha-MSH levels and degree of mental impairment. A significant negative correlation was found between CSF concentrations of alpha-MSH and homovanillic acid in the group of all DAT patients (p less than 0.001). These results suggest that hypothalamic neurons which produce pro-opiomelanocortin-related peptides may be involved in Alzheimer's disease.
Our earlier biochemical studies suggested that the neurosteroid pregnenolone sulfate (PS) may reduce gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) action at the Cl- channel associated with GABAA receptors. In the present electrophysiological study the interaction of PS with the GABAA receptor was tested, using whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings from isolated cerebral cortical neurons of neonatal rats. At micromolar concentrations PS reversibly inhibited GABA-induced current, behaving as an allosteric receptor antagonist.
The role of capsaicin-sensitive sensory nerves of the rat urinary bladder in xylene-induced cystitis was investigated. Instillation of xylene into the urinary bladder of female rats induced cystitis, e.g. detrusor hyperreflexia and increased vascular permeability. Detrusor hyperreflexia was also observed in rats desensitized to capsaicin as adults (50-125 mg/kg s.c., 4 days before) but only for a short period (1 h) after instillation. When a longer time lag (24 h) was allowed to elapse following instillation, reflex micturition was almost abolished. In rats desensitized to capsaicin as newborns (50 mg/kg s.c. on second day of life) reflex micturition was almost abolished and xylene (given 1 h before measurement) was ineffective. The xylene-induced plasma extravasation was greater in the bladder neck than in the dome. In the bladder neck the &quot;early&quot; response to xylene was reduced but not abolished in rats densensitized to capsaicin as adults or pretreated with compound 48/80 and was abolished in rats desensitized to capsaicin as newborns. The bladder content of substance P-like immunoreactivity decreased at various times following xylene instillation but this change occurred in parallel to the increase in bladder weight. These findings indicate that xylene-induced cystitis involves, at least in part, an irritation of capsaicin-sensitive sensory nerves in the bladder wall. The present results further suggest that xylene acts by stimulating at least two populations of sensory nerves which differ in their sensitivity towards capsaicin.
We have investigated some of the physiological, morphological and trophic characteristics of the Merkel cell-neurite complexes in the skin of Xenopus laevis. The Merkel cells, which are specialized sensory cells, occur in groups of 2-4 around the openings of the cutaneous gland ducts. A voltage-controlled mechanical stimulator was used to determine the distribution of mechanosensory thresholds across the skin; an analysis of the results revealed the presence of a single population of rapidly adapting, low threshold mechanoreceptors, whose locations coincided with those of the epidermal Merkel cell-neurite complexes. The possible role of the Merkel cell in the mechanosensory process, and its trophic interactions with the sensory nerve, were examined (i) by following the development of mechanosensitivity when sensory nerves regenerated into denervated, or newly regenerated, skin; (ii) by looking for possible correlations between the expression of physiological function and the appearance of morphological features characteristic of the Merkel cell-neurite complex; and (iii) by investigating the mechanosensitivity that remained after elimination of the Merkel cells. Not only did Merkel cells survive denervation without obvious changes in their fine structure, but they developed with normal morphology in new skin that had regenerated in nerve free limbs. Ingrowing sensory nerves contacted these Merkel cells, and eventually normal mechanosensory function was established; thus the Merkel cells act as targets for these nerves. The full recovery of the normal pattern of mechanosensitivity in the skin following nerve regeneration was correlated with the redevelopment of the specialized contacts between the nerve endings and Merkel cells, that eventually included reciprocal synapses. However, following the mechanical removal of the epidermis by enzymatic treatment, or the selective elimination of the Merkel cells by irradiation after they had taken up the fluorescent dye quinacrine, essentially normal mechanosensory responses could be initiated, though with somewhat increased thresholds. The results indicate that the Merkel cells are not involved in mechanosensory transduction; they do, however, act as targets for the growing nerves, thereby ensuring the appropriate distribution of low threshold mechanosensitivity, and they may have a role in enhancing and even inducing the excitability of the mechanosensitive nerve endings.
Double retrograde axonal tracing was combined with the indirect immunofluorescence antibody method to determine whether noradrenergic neurons have divergent projections to the motor nucleus of the trigeminal nerve and the spinal cord. Rhodamine-labeled microspheres were injected into the motor trigeminal nucleus and True Blue was deposited into lumbar segments of the spinal cord. After a 10-18-day survival period, brainstem sections were processed for immunofluorescence staining of noradrenergic neurons using antibodies to rat dopamine-beta-hydroxylase. Rhodamine-labeled noradrenergic neurons were observed ipsilaterally throughout the A5 and A7 groups; the contralateral A5 and A7 groups contained few rhodamine-labeled cells. A few rhodamine-labeled noradrenergic neurons were observed in the locus coeruleus and subcoeruleus. True Blue-labeled noradrenergic neurons were identified in the A5 and A7 groups, in the ventral part of the locus coeruleus and in the subcoeruleus. Double retrogradely labeled noradrenergic neurons were observed in the A5 and A7 groups but not in the locus coeruleus and subcoeruleus. Of the total number of rhodamine-labeled noradrenergic cells, a large percentage also contained True Blue: 54% in the caudal A5 group, 59% in the rostral A5 group, and 72% in the A7 group. Of the total number of True Blue-labeled noradrenergic neurons, the percentage of double retrogradely labeled cells was 33% in the caudal A5 group, 46% in the rostral A5 group, and 56% in the A7 group. The findings of this study provide the first anatomic evidence for the existence of a prominent population of noradrenergic cells in the A5 and A7 groups with divergent projections to the motor trigeminal nucleus and the spinal cord. We propose that this subpopulation of noradrenergic neurons in the A5 and A7 groups influences motoneurons at multiple levels of the neuraxis.
The somas of primary afferent neurons in the mesencephalic nucleus of the trigeminal nerve in rat have a dense investment of axons immunoreactive for the enzyme adenosine deaminase. We previously suggested that these axons may originate from adenosine deaminase-immunoreactive neurons located in the tuberomammillary nucleus of the hypothalamus [Nagy et al. (1986) Neuroscience 17, 141-156]. Anterograde tracing and immunohistochemical techniques were used to investigate this possibility further. In addition, the appearance of adenosine-immunoreactive axons and the nature of their interactions with mesencephalic neurons was examined ultrastructurally. After injections of either Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin or wheat germ agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase into the region of the tuberomammillary nucleus, punctate deposits of anterogradely transported tracer, detected by immunoperoxidase methods, were seen surrounding mesencephalic neurons. In sections immunostained for tracer and adenosine deaminase by double immunofluorescence, some fibres in the periaqueductal gray matter and around Mes V somas were found to be labelled for both the lectin and the enzyme. Ultrastructurally, only a single morphological class of adenosine deaminase-immunoreactive axons adjacent to, or indenting the cytoplasmic membranes of, large somas in the mesencephalic nucleus could be recognized; they were varicose and contained relatively large immunoreactive vesicles ranging in diameter from 45 to 70 nm. Occasionally, thin processes of these axons could be traced back to small adenosine deaminase-positive neuronal cell bodies located not within the tuberomammillary nucleus, but rather, within the periaqueductal gray matter. In serial ultrathin sections, membrane specializations resembling synaptic junctions were sometimes seen at points where mesencephalic somas were in contact with adenosine deaminase-immunoreactive terminals. Somas within the mesencephalic nucleus also formed such junctions with non-immunoreactive boutons which were morphologically different from, and often seen in close proximity to, those containing adenosine deaminase. These results indicate that in addition to possible afferents from the tuberomammillary nucleus, primary sensory somas within the mesencephalic nucleus are also associated with axonal processes originating from adenosine deaminase-positive neurons located within the periaqueductal gray matter. The infrequent synaptic contacts between these somas and adenosine deaminase-positive axons, despite their close anatomical arrangement, is suggestive of a diffuse endocrine or neurocrine type of axonal relationship with mesencephalic somas or with the n
Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase reactive neurons were found in several regions of human brainstem. Three major groups were located in the medulla: a dorsomedial group in the central gray and floor of the fourth ventricle, a ventromedial group in the vicinity of the medullary raphe, and a lateral group in the lateral reticular nucleus. In the upper pons a large cluster of reactive neurons was centered in the nucleus centralis oralis extending into the locus coeruleus and dorsal tegmental region. A second cluster in the lateral parabrachial nucleus merged with this group more rostrally and continued into the midbrain tegmentum (paracoeruleus-cuneiform group). Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase neurons in this region often contained acetylcholinesterase activity. A second midbrain group was seen in the nucleus paranigralis. Aside from these discrete neuronal collections, scattered reactive neurons were found in the medullary reticular formation, periaqueductal gray, inferior colliculus and superior colliculus. Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase neurons were classified into three groups based on somal size. Parvocellular neurons (10-20 micron) were primarily found in the ventromedial medulla and lateral parabrachial nucleus. Intermediate neurons (20-25 micron) were located in the paranigralis nucleus and dorsomedial medulla. Magnocellular neurons (25-35 micron) were characteristically found in the lateral reticular nucleus and paracoeruleus-cuneiform region. Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase reactive neurons are present in substantial numbers in human brainstem and their distribution is complex. They represent the caudal end of a widespread network of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase-enriched neurons that extend rostrally from the brainstem reticular formation into the basal forebrain, striatum, and cerebral cortex.
The distribution of axons and axon varicosities containing GABA was studied in the superior cervical ganglion of rat by light and electron microscopic immunohistochemistry. Two different polyclonal antibodies were used, which had been made against GABA conjugated by glutardialdehyde to bovine serum albumin. GABA-like immunoreactivity occurred in many axons within the cervical sympathetic trunk and in axons and axon varicosities around the principal nerve cells in the superior cervical ganglion. GABA-positive axons were intermingled with non-stained axons, except for a small group of fibers in the trunk where the staining was absent. The rostral part of the ganglion and some scattered patches were more densely innervated by GABA-positive axons than the middle and caudal parts. Within dense areas, some of the large ganglion cells were abundantly surrounded by GABA-positive nerve fibers, while the vicinity of others was devoid of any immunoreactive axon terminals. None of the principal ganglion cells contained GABA-like immunoreactivity, although a class of small cells scattered within the ganglion was stained. Transection of the cervical sympathetic trunk for 11 days caused the disappearance of GABA-like positivity from most of the fibers, and only very little GABA-like staining was revealed in some small cells, which resembled satellite cells. Ultrastructurally, the GABA-positive nerve fibers were unmyelinated. However, their terminal branches and varicosities accumulated around the perikarya and dendrites of certain principal ganglion cells were partly wrapped in glial processes. The present results provide evidence that the superior cervical ganglion of adult rat receives a significant number of GABA-positive axons from the cervical sympathetic trunk and that these axons provide an innervation which is heterogeneously distributed within the superior cervical ganglion and on ganglionic cells. The source and function of the GABA-positive axons remain to be elucidated.
Following injection of horseradish peroxidase-labeled wheat germ agglutinin or of rhodamine-labeled microspheres as non-selective tracers into the rat red nucleus, the origins of the corticorubral and cerebellorubral pathways, as well as a considerable number of other brain structures including dorsal raph nucleus, zona incerta and several hypothalamic nuclei showed retrogradely labeled perikarya. Labeling patterns obtained with horseradish peroxidase-labeled wheat germ agglutinin compared well with those observed following application of rhodamine-labeled microspheres which produced injection sites restricted to the small nucleus. In these latter cases, counterstaining with phosphine allowed a better definition of anatomical structures. After D-[3H]aspartate application, retrogradely labeled perikarya were observed in cerebral cortex (layer V), zona incerta, dorsal raph nucleus and in several other structures also labeled by non-selective tracers. Following application of [3H]choline and using an improved autoradiographic method, perikaryal labeling was massive within nucleus interpositus, while it was absent in dorsal raph nucleus, cerebral cortex and zona incerta. Retrograde tracing experiments with D-[3H]aspartate and [3H]choline revealed that these transmitter related compounds are selective markers for two subsets of afferents to the red nucleus. The transmitter specificity of the selective labeling with [3H]choline in the cerebellorubral pathway is supported only in part by the results obtained with other methods. The selective labeling with D-[3H]aspartate in the corticorubral pathway, on the other hand, is consistent with its transmitter specificity.
[125I]Iodobolpyramine, a potent and selective histamine H1-receptor antagonist derived from mepyramine, was used to generate light microscopic autoradiograms on sections of guinea-pig brain and spinal cord. Histamine H1-receptors were labelled with high sensitivity over a low background as determined using mianserin or other H1-receptor antagonists as competing agents. An atlas of H1-receptors was established using five sagittal sections and 39 frontal sections, the latter serially prepared at 50 micron intervals. Labelled areas were identified by comparison with corresponding, classically stained sections and their density was rated according to an arbitrary scale. Autoradiographic grains were detected in a large variety of gray matter areas whereas they were generally absent from white matter areas. In the cerebral cortex, H1-receptors are present in all areas and layers with a higher density in lamina IV. In the hippocampal formation, H1-receptors display a laminated pattern of distribution and are the most abundant in the dentate gyrus (hilus and molecular layer) and in several areas of the subiculum and commissural complex. In the amygdaloid complex, the highest densities are found in the medial group of nuclei. In the basal forebrain, the striatum is moderately labelled whereas the nucleus accumbens, islands of Calleja and most septal nuclei are highly labelled. In the thalamus, H1-receptors are present in high density, particularly in the anterior, median and lateral groups of nuclei. In the hypothalamus the labelling is highly heterogeneous with high densities in, for example, medial preoptic area, dorsomedial, ventromedial and most posterior nuclei, including the tuberomammillary complex in which histaminergic perikarya and short axons are present.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Roller tube cultures of parasagittal cerebellar slices were taken from young rats aged 9-11 days, and maintained in vitro for 1-2 weeks. Morphological aspects of cell types and synaptic relationships in such organ cultures were examined at light and electron microscopic levels. Some neurons were marked by intracellular injections of horseradish peroxidase for subsequent identification of their connection patterns. Cytoarchitecture of the cerebellar cortex was largely preserved in the organ cultures. Dendritic trees of Purkinje cells exhibited isoplanar organizations that often resembled their orientation at the time of explanation. Other cerebellar neurons, namely granule cells, Golgi cells, basket cells, stellate cells, all differentiated within the organ cultures. In addition, some neurons of the deep cerebellar nuclei remained viable during the period of culture. Mossy fibers most probably of cerebellar nuclear origin were found terminating on the dendrites of granule cells and Golgi cells. Quite unexpected were certain types of direct synapses of afferent fibers on short necked spines arising from Purkinje cell smooth dendrites and somata. Such terminals resembled climbing fibers. They were most likely modified mossy fiber afferents, since the organ cultures did not include neurons of the inferior olive which are well spearated from the cerebellar mass at postnatal stages. These &quot;ascending&quot; mossy fibers presumably occupied postsynaptic surfaces that were either vacated by deafferentation or induced by the afferent fibers themselves. Intracellularly labeled Purkinje cells had widely distributed axonal collateral branches. Labeled axons were distributed within the Purkinje cell layer. Several recurrent Purkinje cell axon collaterals stained with reaction products of horseradish peroxidase tracer were followed at the ultrastructural level. In one case, labeled terminals were examined in an area of approximately 2 mm2. Terminals of Purkinje cell collaterals formed symmetric synapses with somata of basket cells and dendrites of Golgi cells, but not Purkinje cell somata. Some large boutons of serially traced Purkinje cell axon collaterals formed asymmetric contacts with profiles interpreted as Golgi cell dendrites. In contrast to the apparent axonal sprouting in cerebellar organ cultures, maturation of dendritic processes remained static. Astroglia cells of diverse shapes were observed following immunocytochemical staining with antisera to glia filament proteins. The distribution patterns of immunoreactive astrocytes changed dramatically in cerebellar slice cultures maintained for 3-6 weeks in vitro.
A direct comparison was made between the electrical properties of rat Purkinje cells in cerebellar organotype cultures and those in acute slices from age-matched animals. Cultures were prepared from 9-11-day-old animals. Intracellular recordings were made 5-12 days later, at which time the folia architecture of the cerebellum was still well preserved. The resting membrane potentials and input resistances of Purkinje cells in cultured and acute slice preparations from young animals were comparable to those of mature Purkinje cells in slices. Neurons from animals younger than 14 days differed from mature Purkinje cells in that they fired at low frequencies in response to outward current pulses. The latter property was found in all cultured neurons studied, independent of their time in culture. These action potentials were generated by Na+ and Ca2+ conductances as shown by the application of selective channel blockers. Cultured or acute slice preparations from animals younger than 11 days shared other immature electroresponsive features. In both groups, Na+-dependent plateau depolarizations were observed in less than 10% of Purkinje cells unless K-conductances were blocked, and considerable membrane depolarization was often required to elicit Ca2+-dependent action potentials. These findings are compatible with the relative prominence of voltage-dependent outward currents in immature Purkinje cells, a property which may be enhanced in culture. The injection of hyperpolarizing current pulses revealed a marked time-dependent anomalous rectification in all Purkinje cells. At the breaks of such pulses, several events were observed. In all cells, a rebound conductance was identified which could generate post-anodal spike bursts. In cultured neurons, however, hyperpolarizing pulses were also followed by a slow return to resting potential. This membrane potential profile was similar to that produced by the activation of an A conductance. Experiments on acute slices from animals of different ages (P9-P17) showed that this A-like conductance was expressed only during a brief period in Purkinje cell development. A higher level of spontaneous synaptic activity was observed in cultured than in acute slice preparations. Both unitary excitatory postsynaptic potentials and inhibitory postsynaptic potentials could be elicited in the former by parallel fiber stimulation, and could be fully reversed by outward or inward transmembrane current injections, respectively.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase- and neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive nerve terminal profiles and the glucocorticoid receptor-immunoreactive nuclear profiles have been characterized in the parvocellular part of the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus of the adult (3 month) and the old (24 month) male rat. The phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase-, neuropeptide Y- and glucocorticoid receptor-immunoreactive structures have been demonstrated by means of the indirect immunoperoxidase procedure and analysed in a quantitative way by means of morphometrical and microdensitometrical approaches using both semiautomatic and automatic image analysis. During aging there is (a) a marked reduction in the number of neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive profiles, a moderate reduction of phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase-immunoreactive profiles and a small reduction in the number of glucocorticoid receptor-immunoreactive profiles without a significant change in the evenness of distribution of such profiles as evaluated by means of Gini's index; (b) a loss of the significant correlation in the distribution of the glucocorticoid receptor- and phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase-immunoreactive profiles at the two most caudal levels analysed (A5150 and A5270 micron) while a significant correlation developed between these two distributions at a more rostral level (A5400 micron); (c) a substantial decline in the overlap area of the glucocorticoid receptor- and phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase-immunoreactive profiles at four out of five rostrocaudal levels analysed; (d) a marked reduction in the density-intensity of the neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive profiles and a small significant reduction in the density-intensity of the phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase-immunoreactive profiles without any associated changes in the intensity of the glucocorticoid receptor-immunoreactive profiles. Furthermore, three-dimensional reconstructions of the overall distribution of the glucocorticoid receptor-, phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase- and neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive structures have been made in the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus of the adult male rat. The present results indicate a reduction of neuropeptide Y- and phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase-immunoreactive nerve terminal profiles in the parvocellular part of the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus during aging. These results may in part reflect a loss of neuropeptide Y-like peptides in phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase-immunoreactive nerve terminals of the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus, favouring our view that during aging the modulatory peptides may be lost, leading to a loss of
In the present paper the neuronal systems of the medulla oblongata containing phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase- and neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity have been characterized in adult (3-month-old) and old (24-month-old) male rats. The phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase and neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive neurons have been visualized by means of immunocytochemistry (peroxidase-antiperoxidase technique) and analysed in a quantitative fashion by means of morphometrical (phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase- and neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive cell groups) and microdensitometrical (phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase-immunoreactive cell groups) approaches developed on the IBAS II image analyser (Zeiss-Kontron). During aging there is (a) a reduction in the area covered by the phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase-immunoreactive neuropil for both the C1 and C2 adrenaline cell groups; (b) a reduction in the area covered by the phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase-immunoreactive cell bodies, which is highly significant only for the C2 cell group; (c) a decrease in the area covered by the phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase-positive cell cluster for both C1 and C2 cell groups; (d) a decrease in the degree of phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase immunoreactivity present in the C1 and C2 cell groups; (e) a decay of neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity in the C1 and C2 groups, while the C3 group is unaffected by aging as evaluated by number of phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase- and neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive cell body profiles. These results indicate heterogeneities in the responses of the adrenaline-neuropeptide Y cell groups to the aging process. The possible functional consequences of aging-induced changes in the cardiovascular adrenergic neurons are discussed, especially in relation to development of hypertension.
The projections from the reticular thalamic nucleus and the ventral lateral geniculate nucleus to the lateral posterior-pulvinar thalamic complex were studied in the adult cat using the retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase. Small, stereotaxically guided injections of the enzyme were placed in the various nuclei of this complex, including the pulvinar, lateralis intermedius oralis, lateralis intermedius caudalis, lateralis posterior lateralis, lateralis posterior medialis and lateralis medialis nuclei. The distribution of labeled neurons indicates that these nuclei receive topographically organized projections from the reticular and ventral lateral geniculate nuclei. The pulvinar nucleus receives only very scarce projections from the reticular thalamic nucleus originating in its posterodorsal and posteroventral sectors. The reticular projection to the nucleus lateralis intermedius oralis is even sparser. The nuclei lateralis intermedius caudalis, lateralis posterior lateralis and lateralis posterior medialis receive substantial projections from the suprageniculate sector of the reticular thalamic nucleus. The nucleus lateralis medialis receives an abundant projection from the three sectors (suprageniculate, pregeniculate and infrageniculate) of the reticular thalamic nucleus. Except for the lateralis intermedius caudalis, all nuclei of the lateral posterior-pulvinar complex receive consistent projections from the ventral lateral geniculate nucleus, the nucleus lateralis medialis receiving the densest one. Our findings suggest that visual, auditory, somatosensory, motor and limbic impulses from thalamic nuclei and from primary sensory and association cortical areas modulate the activity of the nucleus lateralis medialis via the reticular thalamic nucleus. The remaining nuclei of the lateral posterior-pulvinar complex are mainly modulated by sectors of the reticular thalamic nucleus that receive afferent connections from visual structures. The intrathalamic projections arising from the ventral lateral geniculate nucleus may be the way through which visuomotor inputs reach the different components of the lateral posterior-pulvinar thalamic complex.
We have previously demonstrated at the light microscopic level that when embryonic day-15 septal neurons are co-cultured for 21 days with their target cells from the hippocampus, increased numbers of septal cholinergic neurons are present as compared with co-cultures employing cells from the non-target cerebellum. In addition, fine varicose axon-like cholinergic fibers are found to be associated with the hippocampal cells but not with cerebellar cells. We now provide ultrastructural evidence for hippocampal target cell-enhanced cholinergic neuronal survival, axonal proliferation, and synapse formation in this culture system. Dissociated cell suspensions from septal, hippocampal, and cerebellar areas were obtained from 15-day mouse embryos; and hippocampal and cerebellar cells were internally labeled with rhodamine-conjugated wheat germ agglutinin. Combinations of septal and hippocampal cells, and septal and cerebellar cells were allowed to reaggregate in rotation mediated culture for either 15 or 21 days. The reaggregates were then fixed, embedded, sectioned, and processed for acetylcholinesterase-positive acetylcholinesterase-positive cells and fibers, and under fluorescence to locate rhodamine-labeled cell populations. Representative reaggregate profiles were then re-embedded for electron microscopic examination. In both types of reaggregates, either labeled hippocampal target or cerebellar non-target cells segregated from the septal cells so that areas containing each of the respective cell populations could be studied. In sections of septal-hippocampal reaggregates from 15-day cultures, 571 out of 665 (85%) cholinergic neurons examined were intact, whereas 15% of the cells showed some ultrastructural features of degeneration. Similarly, at day 21, 297 out of 335 (88%) of the cholinergic neurons were intact. In sections of septal-cerebellar reaggregates from 15-day cultures, 473 out of 572 (83%) cholinergic neurons were intact. By day 21 of culture, however, only 15 out of 110 (14%) cholinergic neurons examined were intact from the septal-cerebellar reaggregates. In areas of septal-hippocampal reaggregates occupied by rhodamine-labeled hippocampal cells, profiles of acetylcholinesterase-labeled axons were identified, and synaptic specializations were observed between cholinergic terminals and dendrites as well as somata of hippocampal target cells. In contrast, areas of septal-cerebellar reaggregates occupied by rhodamine-labeled cerebellar cells were devoid of cholinergic fibers.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Intracellular recordings were made from neurons in the nucleus accumbens in situ to determine how dopamine produces the selective neuromodulatory action in the accumbens observed in previous studies. Electrical stimulation of the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala was found to produce monosynaptically evoked depolarizing and hyperpolarizing postsynaptic potential sequences in a large proportion of the accumbens neurons sampled. Dopamine applied iontophoretically or released endogenously by stimulation of the ventral tegmental area produced consistent membrane depolarization and an increase in membrane conductance but not an increase in spontaneous activity of the accumbens neurons. Stimulation of the ventral tegmental area with trains of 10 pulses at 10 Hz prior to stimulation of the amygdala produced 8-58% reduction in the amplitude of the depolarizing postsynaptic potential but no change in the late hyperpolarizing postsynaptic potential. Although attenuation of the depolarizing postsynaptic potential amplitude from ventral tegmental area stimulation was often accompanied by membrane depolarization, it appeared that the two responses were not causally related. The effect of ventral tegmental area stimulation on the evoked depolarizing postsynaptic potential and the membrane potential were blocked by haloperidol indicating the involvement of dopamine. Iontophoretically applied dopamine produced responses similar to ventral tegmental area stimulation with two exceptions: (i) iontophoretically applied dopamine produced consistently stronger maximal attenuation of the depolarizing postsynaptic potential than did ventral tegmental area stimulation; and (ii) iontophoretically applied dopamine always attenuated both the depolarizing postsynaptic potential and hyperpolarizing postsynaptic potential whereas ventral tegmental area stimulation produced selective attenuation of the depolarizing postsynaptic potential only. These electrophysiological results are complementary to those from pharmacological experiments and suggest that one of several physiological functions of dopamine in the nucleus accumbens is a neuromodulatory one involving presynaptic action on non-dopaminergic terminals.
The labelling of olfactory bulb glomeruli following horseradish peroxidase lavage of the nasal cavity has been studied in the rat. In such conditions, atypical glomeruli, previously described according to their high acetylcholinesterase content, display a strong tracer accumulation. The course of afferent olfactory fibres could be followed along the lateral and dorsal surface of the olfactory bulbs. The primary olfactory axons ending in atypical glomeruli have been identified with horseradish peroxidase in electron microscopy. They differ significantly from classical olfactory terminals owing to the presence of large dense-cored vesicles accompanying small clear ones. Moreover, the olfactory terminals do not gather in dark nodules as they do classically in olfactory glomeruli. The study demonstrates that a subset of olfactory neuroreceptors displaying original ultrastructural characteristics projects selectively into atypical olfactory glomeruli. Ultrastructural features indicate that olfactory information processing taking place in the neuropil might be similar to that which occurs in typical glomeruli. Considered together, the atypical olfactory neuroreceptors, glomeruli and acetylcholinesterase-containing centrifugal fibres could constitute a new olfactory subsystem. This hypothesis is discussed by taking into account previous demonstration of other olfactory subsystems devoted to the processing of olfactory cues of fundamental biological importance.
High rates of conditioned circling have previously been associated with a bilateral augmentation of striatal dopamine metabolism. These results suggest that both striata subserve this response. The present experiment further assessed this possibility by determining the effects of unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the mesotelencephalic dopamine system on conditioned circling. Rats were initially trained to circle in their preferred direction for water reinforcement. Upon establishment of this response, they received unilateral lesions at the level of the lateral hypothalamus either contralateral or ipsilateral to the reinforced direction of circling. Reinforced responding was virtually abolished in rats with contralateral lesions. In contrast, rats lesioned ipsilateral to the direction of reinforced circling exhibited only a 50% decrease in rate of reinforced responding. Non-reinforced responding was increased only in rats with contralaterally placed lesions. Following 5 postoperative test sessions, the experimental contingencies were reversed. 'Ipsilaterally lesioned' rats were now required to circle away from their lesion whereas 'contralaterally lesioned' rats had to turn towards their lesion. The 'Contralateral' group acquired the reversal, such that reinforced responding occurred more frequently than non-reinforced responding. However, reinforced rates of responding did not reach preoperative rates. Conversely, 'ipsilaterally lesioned' rats could not learn to turn contraversively and now made more non-reinforced than reinforced responses. These findings suggest that conditioned circling is mediated by a bilateral involvement of the mesotelencephalic dopaminergic systems. However, the specific role of each side appears to be dependent upon its relationship with the direction of circling emitted.
The effect of sustained activation of excitatory amino acid receptors on neuronal survival was studied using slices of adult rat hippocampus and light and electron microscopy. Kainate, N-methyl-D-aspartate, quisqualate, and ibotenate all produce signs of severe neurotoxicity within 90 min. Neuronal damage occurs in the form of perikaryal and dendritic swelling, cytoplasmic and nucleoplasmic disintegration, and plasma and nuclear membrane ruffling and collapse. The toxicity is restricted to intrinsic neuronal somata, dendrites and spines, while afferent axons, boutons and glia are spared. Although damage is generally distributed throughout all areas of hippocampus, kainate has little effect on pyramidal neurons in the CA2 region. Quantitative analysis of neuronal survival indicates that agonists induce dose-dependent damage over concentration ranges known to be excitatory. Based on selective antagonism by DL-aminophosphonoheptanoate and the patterns of damage produced by each, N-methyl-D-aspartate, kainate, and quisqualate trigger neurotoxicity by acting on distinct receptor classes. It is concluded that, in hippocampal slices, excitatory amino acids induce neurotoxicity in a similar manner to their actions in vivo. The results support the hypothesis that hippocampal neurotoxicity is initiated by excessive excitation, and provide another example of the capacity of adult hippocampal neurons for rapid structural modification.
A combination of immunocytochemical and enzyme histochemical methods have been used to study those neurons which survive lesions of the rat striatum, produced by low doses of the excitotoxin quinolinic acid. Nissl-stained sections revealed that following injection of this toxin many large neurons remained within areas of extensive cell loss. These large cells were found to express both the enzyme acetylcholinesterase and choline acetyltransferase-like immunoreactivity. The surviving cells did not contain the enzyme reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate or the peptides, somatostatin and neuropeptide Y. This pattern of selective cell sparing was also found following lesions induced by low doses of the toxins ibotenic acid and kainic acid. The survival of large neurons indicates that the excitotoxin-lesioned rat striatum shares common features with the pattern of cell loss found in the caudate-putamen in Huntington's disease. The major difference between these two examples of striatal nerve cell degeneration is, however, the selective preservation of somatostatin/neuropeptide Y/nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase-containing neurons found in Huntington's disease but not observed following quinolinic acid lesions.
The neuropeptides somatostatin and neuropeptide Y and the activity of glutamate decarboxylase were determined in the frontal cortex of rats subjected to experimental epilepsy. Two different animal models, (1) rats kindled for 4 weeks by daily injection of pentylenetetrazole, and (2) rats which had undergone strong limbic seizures induced by kainic acid, were used. Decreased seizure threshold, as shown by injection of a subconvulsive dose of pentylenetetrazole, was observed 10 days after the last kindling session and 1 month after injection of kainic acid, respectively. Significantly increased levels of somatostatin (by 60%), neuropeptide Y (135%) and increased activity of glutamate decarboxylase (22%) were found in the frontal cortex of rats previously treated with kainic acid. Separation of somatostatin-like immunoreactivity by size exclusion high-performance liquid chromatography showed a marked increase of immunoreactivity in fractions containing the somatostatin precursor (by 200%) and less prominently of somatostatin-14 and somatostatin-28 (by 60 and 80%, respectively). Michaelis-Menten kinetics of glutamate decarboxylase revealed an increased maximal velocity (Vmax) in the frontal cortex of kainic acid-treated rats, but no change in the Km value was found. Similar results were also obtained in pentylenetetrazole-kindled rats. Injection of cysteamine (100 mg/kg, i.p.) resulting in a 30% decrease of cortical somatostatin in kainic acid-pretreated rats markedly suppressed seizures induced by an otherwise subconvulsive dose of pentylenetetrazole.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The noradrenaline content, the uptake of [3H]noradrenaline, and the release of previously incorporated [3H]noradrenaline were studied in slices of rabbit superior colliculus. The concentration of endogenous noradrenaline was higher in superficial than in deep layers of the superior colliculus. Upon incubation with [3H]noradrenaline, tritium was accumulated by a mechanism that was strongly inhibited by oxaprotiline but little inhibited by 6-nitroquipazine. Electrical stimulation at 0.2 or 3 Hz increased the outflow of tritium from slices preincubated with [3H]noradrenaline; the increase was almost abolished by tetrodotoxin or a low calcium medium. Clonidine reduced the evoked overflow of tritium, whereas yohimbine increased it and antagonized clonidine. The evoked overflow was also reduced by the dopamine D2-receptor-selective agonists apomorphine and quinpirole, an effect antagonized by sulpiride. The preferential opioid kappa-receptor agonist ethylketocyclazocine produced an inhibition that was counteracted by naloxone. Nicotine accelerated the basal outflow of tritium; part of the acceleration was blocked by hexamethonium. The muscarinic agonist oxotremorine slightly diminished the electrically evoked overflow, and its effect was abolished by atropine. The oxaprotiline-sensitive uptake of [3H]noradrenaline as well as the tetrodotoxin-sensitive and calcium-dependent overflow of tritium upon electrical stimulation (presumably reflecting the release of [3H]noradrenaline) indicate that noradrenaline is a neurotransmitter in the superior colliculus. The release of [3H]noradrenaline is modulated through alpha 2-adrenoceptors as well as dopamine D2-receptors, opioid kappa-receptors and nicotine and muscarine receptors. No clear evidence was found for modulation through beta-adrenoceptors, D1-receptors, serotonin receptors, opioid mu- or delta-receptors or receptors for GABA or glutamate. Only the alpha 2-adrenoceptors receive an endogenous agonist input, at least under the conditions of these experiments. The pattern of presynaptic modulation resembles that found for noradrenaline release in other rabbit brain regions, suggesting that all noradrenergic axons arising in the locus coeruleus possess similar presynaptic receptor systems.
The present study uses quantitative and electron microscopic methods to investigate the hypothesis that intraspinal substance P-sympathetic preganglionic neuron circuitry exists in vertebrates. Radioimmunoassay and high-performance liquid chromatography were used to: (1) characterize the chemical nature of the substance P-like immunoreactivity in the sympathetic preganglionic neuropil; and (2) quantify the relative contributions of brain stem, primary sensory and intraspinal neurons to the substance P content within the sympathetic preganglionic neuropil. Electron microscopic observations on the localization of substance P-like immunoreactivity within the preganglionic neuropil caudal to complete thoracic spinal cord transections are also reported. High-performance liquid chromatographic analyses demonstrate that pigeon substance P-like immunoreactivity co-migrates with synthetic substance P, suggesting that the substance P-like material is authentic substance P content within the sympathetic preganglionic neuropil. Electron microscopic observations on the localization of substance P-like immunoreactivity within the preganglionic neuropil caudal to complete preganglionic cell column (inclusive of intermediate spinal laminae V and VII as well as preganglionic neurons located within nucleus intercalatus spinalis); (2) cutting the dorsal rootlets entering the last cervical (C14) and first two thoracic (T1, T2) spinal segments resulted in massive depletion of substance P content in dorsal horn of T1, but no detectable losses within the preganglionic cell column or ventral horn of T1; and (3) total mid-thoracic (T3-4) spinal cord transection significantly depleted the substance P content in the preganglionic cell column (T3-4) as well as in the dorsal (T1-4) and ventral horns (T2-4). Ultrastructural examination of the sympathetic preganglionic neuropil caudal to spinal transections (survival times of 3-14 days) revealed the presence of numerous, intact, normal appearing substance P-like immunoreactive terminals. Immunolabeled terminals formed asymmetric contacts on medium-sized and small caliber dendrites. Extensive degeneration was evident in this material as well. The ultrastructural features of degenerating processes were distinctive and quite dissimilar in appearance from those exhibiting substance P-like immunoreactive staining. No evidence for damage-induced sequestration of substance P-like material into glial elements was found. The above observations are consistent with earlier findings in rat and pigeon, and provide new quantitative and qualitative evidence to support the hypothesis that intraspinal substance P-containing interneurons contribute t
The presence and distribution of multiple neuropeptides in vagal and glossopharyngeal afferent ganglia of the rat were studied using immunohistochemistry. Substance P-, calcitonin-gene related peptide-, cholecystokinin-, neurokinin A-, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-, and somatostatin-immunoreactive neurons were detected in each visceral afferent ganglion. Neurotensin-immunoreactive cells were not observed. In the nodose ganglion (inferior ganglion of the vagus nerve) occasional immunoreactive cells were scattered throughout the main (caudal) portion of the ganglion with small clusters of cells seen in the rostral portion. The pattern of distribution of the various peptides in the nodose ganglion was similar, with the exception of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-immunoreactive neurons which exhibited a more caudal distribution. The relative numbers of immunoreactive cells varied, with the greatest numbers being immunoreactive for substance P or vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, and the lowest numbers being immunoreactive for neurokinin A and somatostatin. A build-up of immunoreactivity for each of the peptides, except somatostatin and neurotensin, was detected in vagal nerve fibers of colchicine-injected ganglia. Numerous peptide-immunoreactive cells were also found in the petrosal (inferior ganglion of the glossopharyngeal nerve) and jugular (superior ganglion of the vagus nerve) ganglia. No specific intraganglionic distribution was noted although the relative numbers of cells which were immunoreactive for the different peptides varied considerably. Substance P and calcitonin-gene related peptide were found in large numbers of cells, cholecystokinin was seen in moderate numbers of cells, and neurokinin A, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and somatostatin were seen in fewer cells. These data provide evidence for the presence and non-uniform distribution of multiple peptide neurotransmitters in vagal and glossopharyngeal afferent neurons. In general, relatively greater numbers of immunoreactive cells were located in the rostral compared with caudal nodose ganglion, and in the petrosal and jugular ganglia compared with the nodose ganglion. Thus, multiple neuropeptides may be involved as afferent neurotransmitters in the reflexes mediated by vagal and glossopharyngeal sensory nerves.




In Experiment 1, the performance of vehicle control rats and rats with 6-hydroxydopamine-induced lesions of the dorsal noradrenergic bundle (DB) was examined in acquisition and extinction of bar pressing and in spontaneous and food-reinforced alternation in a T-shape maze. Plasma corticosterone levels in basal conditions, after chronic food restriction, after transportation to a novel environment, and after sessions of either rewarded or nonrewarded bar pressing were assayed. DB lesions produced a significant decrease of spontaneous alternation and a significant but small resistance to extinction, without reliably altering either corticosterone responses or instrumental spatial alternation. In Experiment 2, bar-press extinction and instrumental alternation were reexamined in new groups of control rats and rats with DB lesions without any blood collection procedures. The DB lesions did not reliably alter either behaviors on any measures. Taken together, these data indicate no consistent effects of forebrain noradrenaline depletion on either extinction or spatial memory or pituitary-adrenocortical function. However, the impairment of spontaneous alternation found in a previous study was confirmed. These findings are discussed in terms of the proposed roles of the dorsal noradrenergic bundle in learning and habituation to novelty.
Inescapable tailshock has been shown to elicit a tissue specific decrease in the density of peripheral benzodiazepine receptors (PBR). We have now explored possible mechanisms that may be responsible for this phenomenon. An 80 minute session of inescapable tailshock produced a reduction in the binding of [3H] Ro5-4864 to renal membranes at 0, 1 and 2 hr after stress, with values returning to control (naive) levels within 24 hr. In cardiac membranes, statistically significant reductions were observed only at 2 and 4 hr after stress. The role of the pituitary-adrenal axis and the sympathetic nervous system in this phenomenon was assessed by subjecting adrenalectomized, hypophysectomized, 6-OHDA-treated or control (sham-operated or saline-treated) rats to inescapable shock. Neither adrenalectomy, hypophysectomy, nor 6-OHDA pretreatment altered the stress-induced reduction in renal PBR. However, the stress-induced decrease in renal PBR was blocked by pretreatment with clonazepam (1 mg/kg), a potent anxiolytic with low affinity for PBR.
A pronounced left/right asymmetry of GABA-gated chloride channels was observed in rat cerebral cortex. This asymmetry was manifest as a higher apparent affinity and density of binding sites for the &quot;cage&quot; convulsant [35S]t-butylbicyclophosphorothionate (TBPS) in the right compared to left cortex. Asymmetries in [35S]TBPS binding were not observed in other brain areas, and were restricted to the occipital and entorhinal/pyriform areas of cerebral cortex. Evaluation of other components of the benzodiazepine/GABA receptor chloride ionophore complex in cerebral cortex suggests that this asymmetry is not present in either benzodiazepine receptors or that population of GABA receptors linked to benzodiazepine receptors. Brief restraint-stress significantly increased both the apparent affinity and number of [35S]TBPS binding sites in cortex, but the left/right asymmetry was no longer apparent. These findings indicate a time-dependent, asymmetric response of cortical GABA-gated chloride channels to stress rather than an anatomical hemispheric difference, and suggest that GABA-gated chloride channels may be involved in a differential processing of stressful stimuli by the cerebral hemispheres.
The amino acid sequence of the Alzheimer disease amyloid precursor (ADAP) has been deduced from the corresponding cDNA, and hydropathy analysis of the sequence suggests a receptor-like structure with a single transmembrane domain. The putative cytoplasmic domain of ADAP contains potential sites for serine and threonine phosphorylation. In the present study, synthetic peptides derived from this domain were used as model substrates for various purified protein kinases. Protein kinase C rapidly catalyzed the phosphorylation of a peptide corresponding to amino acid residues 645-661 of ADAP [ADAP peptide(645-661)] on Ser-655. Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II phosphorylated ADAP peptide (645-661) on Thr-654 and Ser-655. This peptide was virtually ineffective as a substrate for cAMP-dependent protein kinase, cGMP-dependent protein kinase, casein kinase II, or insulin receptor protein-tyrosine kinase. When a homogenate of rat cerebral cortex was used as the source of protein kinase, phosphorylation of ADAP peptide(645-661) was stimulated by calcium/phosphatidylserine/diolein to a level 4.6-fold above the basal level of phosphorylation, consistent with a prominent stimulation by protein kinase C. Using rat cerebral cortex synaptosomes prelabeled with 32Pi, a 32P-labeled phosphoprotein of approximately equal to 135 kDa was immunoprecipitated by using antisera prepared against ADAP peptide(597-624), consistent with the possibility that the holoform of ADAP in rat brain is a phosphoprotein. Based on analogy with the effect of phosphorylation by protein kinase C of juxtamembrane residues in the cytoplasmic domain of the epidermal growth factor receptor and the interleukin 2 receptor, phosphorylation of ADAP may target it for internalization.
Chronic treatment with amitriptyline produces dose-dependent super-sensitivity of a central muscarinic cholinergic mechanism involved in the regulation of core body temperature. The authors demonstrated that chronic treatment with lithium prevents the induction of this response. The potential clinical and theoretical significance of this finding is set forth.
Perfusion of the endogenous neuropeptide, FMRFamide, through the isolated gill of Aplysia facilitated the amplitude of the gill withdrawal reflex (GWR) evoked by tactile stimulation of the gill. The GWR was facilitated in a dose-dependent manner. The facilitation of the GWR produced by FMRFamide perfusion was reversible. In addition to facilitating GWR amplitude, FMRFamide perfusion could also prevent habituation of the reflex. It is hypothesized that FMRFamide may play a role in the peripheral nervous system (PNS) in the gill in the mediation of behavioral state and modulation of adaptive gill behaviors.
This is a report of comparison of developmental changes of spine densities on the different categories of dendrites of neocortical pyramidal neurons (V and VI layers of motor and visual areas) of Wistar rat, during 11-150 days of age, under conditions of normal nutrition and under chronic caloric but not protein deprivation. The studied animals were of F2 generation born to parents undernourished to a degree that their weights were only 40-50% of normal control. At such a level they would be active, reproduce, and not morbid. Similar level of undernutrition also continued in the F2 group studied. A group of undernourished animals was also, for rehabilitation, put on normal diet from 21 days of age. Visual and motor cortical area pieces were impregnated by Stensaas' rapid Golgi method. Spines were counted on successive 20-micron segments (I-IV) of both apical and basal dendritic main shafts as well as primary and secondary branches. The spine count per segment (density) in the normal population reached exuberant values by 26-50 days of age and later underwent a progressive decline or pruning by 30-50% or more by 150 days of age. The degrees of exuberance and pruning varied in different categories of dendrites, generally being more conspicuous in motor than visual cortex, and more in basal than apical dendrites. Under the conditions of chronic caloric restriction, the phenomenon of exuberance was retarded and pruning was not observed. On the contrary, there was a progressive increase in the spine densities on both basal and apical dendrites, in motor and visual cortex. By 150 days of age, the spine densities were not only greater than the final counts for respective segments in the normal animal, but even greater than the exuberant counts. Postweaning caloric rehabilitation had only a modest impact against this deviation. Preliminary data (intersections) of dendritic branching also indicated a similar pattern of changes (lag followed by increase), but of a lesser degree. These alterations in neuronal development are interpreted as biological adaptations evoked in shaping the homeostasis of the organism's brain and behaviour by factors of nurture.
The effects of serotonin (5-HT) on neuronal responses to the excitatory amino acid agonist N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) were examined in neocortical slices of the Fischer rat using current-clamp and single-electrode voltage-clamp techniques. Layer V neocortical neurons responded to application of NMDA by depolarization with no change or an apparent increase in input resistance. Following perfusion with 10(-5) M 5-HT, the response of these neurons to NMDA was significantly increased in both amplitude and duration, whereas neuronal responses to quisqualic acid and acetylcholine were not altered by 5-HT. Furthermore, the enhanced response to NMDA in 5-HT was long-lasting, and could not be reversed during the course of the experiment. Resting membrane potential and the postspike train afterhyperpolarization were not significantly altered by 5-HT, although the input resistance was decreased by 5-HT. Excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) were usually not affected or reversibly decreased by 5-HT. However, in a few cells exhibiting a complex voltage-dependent EPSP, 5-HT produced a long-lasting enhancement in the amplitude of the EPSP. Under voltage-clamp conditions, with Na+- and K+-channels blocked, 5-HT enhanced the inward current stimulated by application of NMDA. It is suggested that 5-HT selectively enhances the voltage- and Ca2+-dependent NMDA response.
Incubation of rat striatal synaptosomes with the adenosine receptor agonist 2-chloroadenosine (2-CADO) produced a concentration-dependent increase of dopamine (DA) synthesis (about 50% of control value). The effect was not additive with the stimulation produced by either 10 microM forskolin or 2 mM dibutyryl cyclic AMP. Pretreatment of striatal synaptosomes with 2-CADO produced an activation of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) which withstood washing and lysing of the tissue. This activation was largely independent of the presence of Ca2+ ion in the preincubation medium and, when analyzed as a function of different concentrations of the pterin cofactor 6-methyl-5,6,7,8-tetrahydropterin (0.08-0.4 mM), it was associated with an apparent increase in the Vmax of the enzyme. Quinpirole, a selective D2 DA receptor agonist, reduced control synaptosomal DA synthesis and caused a persistent inhibition of TH activity. When added together with 2-CADO, quinpirole depressed the stimulation of DA synthesis and TH activity produced by the adenosine analog. The effect of quinpirole was stereospecifically antagonized by the D2 DA antagonist sulpiride. Quinpirole also inhibited the activation of TH elicited by a submaximal concentration of forskolin, but not that produced by dibutyryl cyclic AMP. The inhibitory effect of quinpirole on basal and 2-CADO-stimulated TH activities was mimicked by DA. These results indicate that presynaptic DA autoreceptors and adenosine A2 receptors interact antagonistically in controlling DA synthesis in rat striatal synaptosomes presumably by exerting opposite inputs on a presynaptic adenylate cyclase system.
(-)-[3H]Desmethoxyverapamil ((-)-DMV) binds saturably to homogenates of the osteoblast-like cell lines UMR 106 and ROS 17/2.8 with KD values of 45 and 61 nM and Bmax values of 6.0 and 5 pmol/mg protein, respectively. Binding is stereoselective with (-)-DMV 8-10 times more potent than (+)-DMV. None of the dihydropyridine or benzothiazepine Ca2+ antagonists examined affect (-)-[3H]DMV binding. Monovalent cations such as Li+, Na+, and K+ inhibit (-)[3H]DMV binding in the 100-400 mM range. Divalent cations such as Ba2+, Sr2+, Ca2+, and Mg2+ are effective binding inhibitors in the 2-5 mM range. ROS 17/2.8 cells express a channel on the apical plasma membrane which conducts Ba2+ and Ca2+. With 110 mM BaCl2 or CaCl2 as charge carriers the single channel conductance is 3-5 picosiemens. In cell-excised patches the channel selects for Ba2+ over Na+ 3.3:1. In the absence of divalent ions the channel conducts Na+ ions with a single channel conductance of 13 picosiemens. This Na+ conductance decreases with physiological levels of Ca2+. The channel appears related to the (-)-[3H]DMV binding site, since its conductance is blocked by verapamil in a dose-dependent manner. Moreover, DMV blocks the channel stereoselectively with relative potencies of the isomers corresponding to their affinities for the binding site. The dihydropyridine drugs BAY K 8644 or (+)-202-791 do not affect channel opening. These binding and biophysical data indicate that osteoblast cells have a phenylalkylamine receptor associated with a Ca2+ channel.
The AChE fiber distribution within the human hippocampus and parahippocampal gyrus was studied in order to provide normative data for the examination of cholinergic fiberarchitecture in human pathology and to clarify the cytoarchitectonic organization of these structures. A modification of the Koelle method was used to stain temporal lobe serial sections from 6 neurologically normal human brains collected at autopsy. The hippocampal formation contains some of the densest staining of any cortical area. Regions with the heaviest concentrations of AChE fibers include a thin band along the inner edge of the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus (ml-DG) and parts of the CA2, CA3, and CA4 sectors of Ammon's horn. Staining is of intermediate intensity in the CA1 region. The subiculum (S) is more lightly stained than the CA fields. Staining in the parahippocampal gyrus is generally less dense than in the hippocampal formation. The most conspicuous feature of the human entorhinal cortex (EC) is the AChE-rich fiber patches seen overlapping the stellate cell islands in layer II. An additional band of relatively dense AChE staining is identified in layers IV-V. Prominent AChE-rich polymorphic neurons are present within the hilum of the dentate gyrus. The CA1/subiculum transition in Nissl preparation is characterized by an oblique interdigitation of CA1 cells. The transition from EC to prorhinal cortex occurs along the medial bank of the rhinal sulcus and is characterized by a band of AChE staining, which slopes obliquely away from layer II until it joins an intermediate pyramidal cell layer. Some comparisons with AChE staining in the monkey were made. The monkey has a similar pattern except in DG, where the intensely AChE staining band along the inner ml-DG is thicker and much more prominent. In comparison to the human, the monkey has more conspicuous AChE staining in the parasubicular region.
This report examines the generation of cholinergic neurons in the spinal cord in order to determine whether the transmitter phenotype of neurons is associated with specific patterns of neurogenesis. Previous immunocytochemical studies identified four groups of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT)-positive neurons in the cervical enlargement of the rat spinal cord. These cell groups vary in both somatic size and location along the previously described ventrodorsal neurogenic gradient of the spinal cord. Thus, large (and small) motoneurons are located in the ventral horn, medium-sized partition cells are found in the intermediate gray matter, small central canal cluster cells are situated within lamina X, and small dorsal horn neurons are scattered predominantly through laminae III-V. The relationships among the birthdays of these four subsets of cholinergic neurons have been examined by combining 3H-thymidine autoradiography and ChAT immunocytochemistry. Embryonic day 11 was the earliest time that neurons were generated within the cervical enlargement. Large and small ChAT-positive motoneurons were produced on E11 and 12, with 70% of both groups being born on E11. ChAT-positive partition cells were produced between E11 and 13, with their peak generation occurring on E12. Approximately 70% of the cholinergic central canal cluster and dorsal horn cells were born on E13, and the remainder of each of these groups was generated on E14. Other investigators have shown that all neurons within the rat cervical spinal cord are produced in a ventrodorsal sequence between E11 and E16. In contrast, ChAT-positive neurons are born only from E11 to E14 and are among the earliest cells generated in the ventral, intermediate, and dorsal subdivisions of the spinal cord. However, all cholinergic neurons are not generated simultaneously; rather their birthdays are correlated with their positions along the ventrodorsal gradient of neurogenesis. The fact that large motoneurons and medium-sized partition cells are born before small central canal cluster and dorsal horn cells would appear to support the generalization that large neurons are generated before small ones. However, the location of spinal cholinergic neurons within the neurogenic gradient seems to be more importantly associated with the time of cell generation than somal size. For example, when large and small motoneurons located at the same dorsoventral spinal level are compared, both sizes of cells are generated at the same time and in similar proportions.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The biochemical and pharmacological properties of an endogenous anticonvulsant substance(s) found in rat cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) following seizures are described. CSF taken from donor rats following a single maximal electroshock (MES) seizure caused significant elevations in seizure thresholds in naive recipient rats when intracerebroventricularly injected 15 min prior to exposure to the volatile convulsant flurothyl. Anticonvulsant activity was antagonized by pre-injection in recipients of high doses of naloxone or the selective delta-opioid receptor antagonist ICI 174,864. The anticonvulsant activity was also lost when the CSF was exposed to heat (90 degrees C) or immobilized trypsin. Although unaffected by the peptidase inhibitors thiorphan and bestatin, the anticonvulsant activity was significantly potentiated by a combination of aprotinin and bacitracin. Ultrafiltration of CSF revealed that the anticonvulsant activity passed through membranes with a 10,000 molecular weight cut-off, but was retained by membranes with a 5000 molecular weight cut-off. CSF removed from rats following MES had significantly increased concentrations of beta-endorphin-like, but not dynorphin A, Leu- or Met-enkephalin-like immunoreactivities relative to CSF from sham-treated rats. However, significant increases in Met-enkephalin-like immunoreactivity were measured following exposure of the CSF to the proteolytic enzymes trypsin and carboxypeptidase B, suggesting the seizure-induced presence of a higher molecular weight form of Met-enkephalin not recognized immunologically prior to enzyme exposure. These data reconfirm the anticonvulsant actions of postseizure CSF, and indicate that these effects require mediation through delta-opioid receptors in the recipient rat. These data additionally argue against these effects being mediated by Met-enkephalin, Leu-enkephalin or dynorphin A in the CSF, and suggest instead that anticonvulsant effects are attributable to a heat- and trypsin-sensitive opioid peptide(s) with a molecular weight approximately in the range of 5000-10,000 Da.
In the present study, the origin of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) to the dorsal horn in the rat lumbar spinal cord is investigated. CGRP immunoreactivity is examined following multiple unilateral and bilateral dorsal rhizotomies and isolated cord preparations (spinal cords are isolated by transecting the cord in two places and cutting all dorsal roots between the transections). Seven to 11 days after surgery, unilateral multiple dorsal rhizotomies result in a drastic decrease in CGRP-stained terminals on the operated side; following bilateral dorsal rhizotomies and isolated cord preparations, one or two CGRP varicosities remain in the dorsal horn in each section. The numbers of CGRP-immunostained varicosities observed in the latter two preparations are not significantly different, suggesting that few if any axons descending from the brain contribute to the CGRP terminal population in the spinal cord dorsal horn. Based on these data, we hypothesize that dorsal root ganglion cells are the only source of CGRP to the rat lumbar dorsal horn.
One of the possible causes of Alzheimer's disease is thought to be a lack of nerve growth factor (NGF), which plays an important role in the neuronal differentiation and cell survival of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons. In the present study, we report for the first time a direct in vitro effect of NGF on the survival of magnocellular cholinergic neurons of the nucleus basalis of Meynert. A dissociated culture of cholinergic neurons was prepared after dissecting out the nucleus from vibratome slices of postnatal rat forebrain. After culturing the neurons of this nucleus from 2-week-old rats for 6 days, the cell number of viable acetylcholinesterase-positive cholinergic neurons in the presence of NGF was found to be greater than that in the absence of NGF. Also, more extensive and denser acetylcholinesterase-positive neurites were observed in the NGF-treated culture. Higher activities of choline acetyltransferase were also observed in the NGF-treated culture. Cellular choline acetyltransferase activity, which was calculated by dividing the enzyme activity by the viable number of acetylcholinesterase-positive neurons for each well, was almost the same with or without NGF. These results mean that NGF enhanced cholinergic neuronal survival and cholinergic neurite regeneration, but did not induce cellular choline acetyltransferase activities.
An extensive network of intracellular cross-links occurs between the stereocilia of each cochlear hair cell bundle. These links fall into two main categories; lateral links which run roughly horizontal with respect to the reticular lamina and which join stereocilia of the same or adjacent rows, and tip-to-side links which run at a more vertical angle from the tip of each shorter stereocilium to the side of the adjacent longer stereocilium in the row behind. It has been proposed that deformation of the tip-to-side links causes alteration of the rate of opening of ion channels, producing transduction. Lateral linkages also occur between the stereocilia of adjacent hair cells. Now, intercellular links which resemble the tip-to-side links have been observed. Some of these occur in positions inappropriate to their proposed role in transduction. Several hypotheses are proposed to account for their presence e.g., the links could represent the remnants of a glycocalyx which is best preserved in areas where stereocilia are closely opposed.
The dorsal longitudinal flight muscle (DLM) of Drosophila is composed of six muscle fibers (DLM1-6 from ventral to dorsal) and innervated by five motor neurons (MNs), DLM1-4 being innervated singly by MN1-4, and DLM5 and 6 being jointly innervated by MN5. This study identifies and describes the five motor neurons that innervate these six muscle fibers. Horseradish peroxidase (HRP) applied intracellularly to single identified DLM fibers resulted in the labeling of the single motor neuron innervating that muscle fiber by retrograde transsynaptic transport. This method allowed positive identification of the motor neuron innervating a particular muscle fiber, since only the innervating neuron was labeled. The axonal pathway, soma, and dendritic distribution of each labeled motor neuron was traced in the thoracic ganglion, and their relative positions were determined. The somata of MN1-4 lie in a cluster located near the lateral surface of the thoracic ganglion at the border of the pro- and mesothoracic regions, ipsilateral to the muscle fibers innervated. The somata of MN1 and 2 lie side by side in a horizontal plane with MN1 in a more anterior position. Those of MN3 and 4 lie ventrally to those of MN1 and 2 in a horizontal plane with MN3 in the more anterior position. The soma of MN5 is located contralaterally to the muscle fiber it innervates, lying in the dorsal outermost layer of the thoracic ganglion next to the midline at the border of the pro- and mesothoracic regions.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We have employed immunohistochemical and morphometric procedures to study the distribution of monoamine-synthesizing neurons in the medulla oblongata of the adult human, utilizing antibodies to tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PNMT), and phenylalanine hydroxylase (PH8). In the human brain, the antigen with which PH8 reacts occurs within neurons that presumably synthesize serotonin (Haan et al., '87). Neurons containing these antigens were mapped and counted in successive coronal sections with the aid of a computer-assisted procedure. The results indicate that monoamine-synthesizing neurons are distributed in the human brain in patterns broadly similar to those described for other species. TH-immunoreactive cells extended caudorostrally for approximately 32 mm commencing at the spinomedullary junction and ending 8 mm caudal to the pontomedullary junction. In coronal sections these TH-immunoreactive neurons were seen in the lateral medulla dorsal to the inferior olive extending in a continuous band to the dorsomedial medulla. Above the obex the majority of these cells apparently synthesize adrenaline since many PNMT-immunoreactive cells were also found in this region. There were few or no PNMT-immunoreactive cells caudal to the obex, indicating that the TH-immunoreactive cells in this region synthesize either noradrenaline or dopamine. Approximately 65% of these TH-immunoreactive neurons contained melanin pigment, whereas few or no PNMT-immunoreactive cells contained melanin pigment. PH8-immunoreactive cells extended throughout the rostrocaudal extent of the medulla oblongata (approximately 40 mm). In coronal sections the majority were found in the medullary raphe nuclei. However, many cells throughout the rostrocaudal extent of the medulla were found laterally intermingled with catecholamine-synthesizing neurons. Occasional neurons in the lateral medulla appeared to contain both PH8- and TH-immunoreactivity.
Odorant-binding protein (OBP) is found in nasal epithelium, and it selectively binds odorants. Three complementary DNAs encoding rat odorant-binding protein have now been cloned and sequenced. One clone contains an open reading frame predicted to encode an 18,091-dalton protein. RNA blot analysis confirms the localization of OBP messenger RNA in the nasal epithelium. This OBP has 33 percent amino acid identity to alpha 2-microglobulin, a secreted plasma protein. Other members of an alpha 2-microglobulin superfamily bind and transport hydrophobic ligands. Thus, OBP probably binds and carries odorants within the nasal epithelium to putative olfactory receptors.
Crude cholinergic synaptic vesicles from a homogenate of the electric organ of Torpedo californica were centrifuged to equilibrium in an isosmotic sucrose density gradient. The classical VP1 synaptic vesicles banding at 1.055 g/mL actively transported [3H]acetylcholine (AcCh). An organelle banding at about 1.071 g/mL transported even more [3H]AcCh. Transport by both organelles was inhibited by the known AcCh storage blockers trans-2-(4-phenylpiperidino)cyclohexanol (vesamicol, formerly AH5183) and nigericin. Relative to VP1 vesicles the denser organelle was slightly smaller as shown by size-exclusion chromatography. It is concluded that the denser organelle corresponds to the recycling VP2 synaptic vesicle originally described in intact Torpedo marmorata electric organ [Zimmermann, H., &amp; Denston, C.R. (1977) Neuroscience (Oxford) 2, 695-714; Zimmermann, H., &amp; Denston, C.R. (1977) Neuroscience (Oxford) 2, 715-730]. The properties of the receptor for vesamicol were studied by measuring binding of [3H]vesamicol, and the amount of SV2 antigen characteristic of secretory vesicles was assayed with a monoclonal antibody directed against it. Relative to VP1 vesicles the VP2 vesicles had a ratio of [3H]AcCh transport activity to vesamicol receptor concentration that typically was 4-7-fold higher, whereas the ratio of SV2 antigen concentration to vesamicol receptor concentration was about 2-fold higher. Based on an antibody standardization, in a typical preparation the VP1 vesicles contained 237 +/- 15 pmol of receptor/mg of protein whereas VP2 vesicles contained 102 +/- 3 pmol of receptor/mg of protein, and VP2 vesicles transported AcCh 2-3-fold more actively than VP1 vesicles.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The efferent projections of the medullary respiratory neurons of the rat were studied using an anterograde tracer, Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin (PHA-L). In Nembutal-anesthetized rats, PHA-L was iontophoretically applied to (1) the area of inspiratory neurons of the ventral respiratory group (VRG) around the nucleus ambiguus, or (2) the area ventrolateral to the solitary tract. In addition, a fluorescence retrograde tracer, Fast blue (FB), was injected into the cervical phrenic nerve several days after the PHA-L injection. When PHA-L was injected into the area of predominantly inspiratory neurons of VRG, dense PHA-L-labeled axons were observed bilaterally in the spinal cord: the ipsilateral projections were noticeably denser than the contralateral ones. Fine axonal branches were distributed around a column of the phrenic motoneurons and boutons were observed on the somata of the FB-labeled motoneurons, suggesting monosynaptic connections between VRG inspiratory neurons and phrenic motoneurons. On the other hand, when PHA-L was injected into the area ventrolateral to the solitary tract, only a few descending axons to the spinal cord were seen bilaterally. No contacts between the PHA-L-labeled axons and the FB-labeled phrenic motoneurons were observed. The brainstem projections of the VRG were found bilaterally in the nuclei ambigui, Cajal's interstitial nuclei of the solitary nucleus, the solitary nuclei, the hypoglossal nuclei, the Klliker-Fuse's nuclei, and the subcoeruleus areas.
In Nembutal-anesthetized and spontaneously breathing rats, a total of 226 respiratory neurons were recorded in the medulla extending from the caudal end of the facial nucleus to 1 mm caudal to the obex. They were classified into inspiratory (I) and expiratory (E) neurons by their temporal relationships to diaphragm EMGs. One hundred and seventeen I and 108 E neurons were identified. I and E neurons were further classified into augmenting, decrementing, and other types based on their firing patterns. Almost all the respiratory neurons recorded were located around the nucleus ambiguus and the nucleus retroambigualis, corresponding to the ventral respiratory group (VRG) of the cat. On the other hand, only a few respiratory neurons were identified around the ventrolateral nucleus of the solitary tract, corresponding to the dorsal respiratory group of the cat. In the VRG, 3 subgroups were distinguished rostrocaudally. One group of E neurons was located ventrally to the rostral part of the nucleus ambiguus, presumably corresponding to the Btzinger complex defined in the cat. Another group of E neurons extended caudally beyond the obex, from the caudal portion of the nucleus ambiguus through the nucleus retroambigualis. Between these two groups of E neurons, an assembly of predominantly I neurons existed in the vicinity of the nucleus ambiguus. These characteristics of distributions were basically similar to those of the VRG of the cat.

A previous study from this laboratory demonstrated that ongoing GABAergic neurotransmission in the nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS) functions to maintain baseline arterial pressure (AP). In that study, bilateral microinjection of nipecotic acid into the NTS was observed to elevate AP. Since nipecotic acid is a selective GABA uptake blocker, changes in GABA release should be reflected by changes in the response to nipecotic acid. The present study utilized this approach to assess endogenous GABA activity within the NTS of the spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR). Male SHR, 16-20 weeks of age, were anesthetized with chloralose, paralyzed and ventilated. Age-matched Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats were studied as controls. Bilateral microinjection of nipecotic acid (10 nmol in 100 nl; a maximally effective dose) into the NTS elicited a pressor response which was significantly greater in the SHR than the response observed in the WKY rats. Similarly, direct stimulation of GABAB receptors in the NTS with (-)-baclofen 40 pmol, a maximally effective dose) elicited an increase in AP which was significantly greater in the SHR. In contrast, bilateral microinjection of the direct acting GABAA agonist muscimol (160 pmol, a maximally effective dose) resulted in a similar elevation of AP in both the SHR and WKY rats. These results suggest that the enhanced pressor response caused by endogenous GABA in the NTS of the SHR is due to a greater response evoked by stimulation of GABAB receptors. Thus, enhanced GABAB receptor-mediated neural transmission in the NTS may contribute to the expression or maintenance of hypertension in this genetic model of hypertension.
Tests were carried out to determine if the tolerance that develops in dorsal-horn network responses of mouse dorsal root ganglion (DRG)-spinal cord explants after chronic exposure to opioids could be accounted for by alterations in the excitability and pharmacologic properties of the afferent DRG cells. Intracellular recordings were made from DRG neurons in organotypic DRG-cord explants after chronic treatment with 1 microM D-Ala2-D-Leu5-enkephalin (DADLE) for greater than 4 days in vitro. Acute application of 10 microM DADLE shortened the duration of the Ca2+ component of the somatic action potential (APD) in only 5% of the treated neurons (4 out of 79 cells), in contrast to about 50% of the cells in naive explants (36 out of 74). Thus many DRG neuron perikarya became tolerant to the APD-shortening effects of DADLE. Furthermore, 77% of the treated DRG cells (61 out of 79) showed prolongation of the APD in response to an acute increase in DADLE concentration vs 34% in naive explants (25 out of 74). However, when the DADLE responsivity tests were carried out in the presence of multiple K+ channel blockers, only 20% of the treated DRG neurons showed APD prolongation (3 out of 15 cells), whereas 73% showed APD-shortening responses (11 out of 15 cells). The results suggest that: (1) DADLE-induced APD prolongation of the treated DRG neurons is mediated by opioid receptor subtypes that decrease a voltage-sensitive K+ conductance; (2) the DADLE-induced APD-shortening effects which are unmasked during more complete K+ channel blockade are mediated by opioid-receptor subtypes in the same neuron that reduce a voltage-sensitive Ca2+ conductance (resembling kappa receptors). DRG neurons did not become tolerant to either of these two opioid effects after chronic exposure to DADLE. Opioid shortening of the APD of DRG neuron perikarya has been generally accepted to be a model of opioid inhibition of calcium influx and transmitter release at presynaptic DRG terminals6,52,53,65,75,76. It is postulated that the opioid-induced APD prolongation observed in the present study provides evidence that opioids can also evoke direct excitatory effects on neurons. The enhancement of DADLE-induced excitatory responses and attenuation of DADLE-induced inhibitory responses of DRG neurons after chronic exposure to this opioid show striking similarities to the effects of forskolin or pertussis toxin treatment. These in vitro studies may provide clues to compensatory mechanisms underlying physiologic expression of tolerance to opioid analgesic effects in primary afferent synaptic networks.
Rats made dependent on heroin and morphine exhibit both qualitative and quantitative differences in the characteristics of radioligand binding to mu-opioid receptors in the central nervous system. In brain membranes prepared from control animals, [3H]dihydromorphine (DHM) binding was best described by a two-site model, while in morphine-dependent rats, [3H]DHM binding was best described by a single-site model. In contrast, [3H]DHM binding to membranes from heroin-dependent animals was best described by a two-site model, with an increased density of the high-affinity, and no change in the low-affinity population compared to controls. Furthermore, both the number of binding sites for [3H]DAGO (a ligand that selectively labels a population of high-affinity mu-opiate receptors) and the sensitivity of [3H]DHM to sodium ions was increased in heroin; but not in morphine-dependent rats. These studies demonstrate that opiate receptors are differentially regulated in heroin- and morphine-dependent animals. Such neurochemical changes in mu-opiate receptors may underlie differences in the behavioral and pharmacological profiles of heroin and morphine reported in man.
Digital and palmar dermatoglyphics were examined in 29 men and 27 women with dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT) and 112 age-, sex-, and racial group-matched controls. Female patients had significantly (p less than 0.05) more accessory triradii and complete Sydney creases than controls; no dermatoglyphic differences were detected in the males. Separating the patients by age of onset prior to or after age 65 years did not help differentiate patients from controls by dermatoglyphic profile. This study failed to confirm either the previously reported dermatoglyphic differences between DAT patients and controls or the reported similarity of the dermatoglyphic pattern of DAT to that of Down syndrome patients.
Correlations between regional cerebral metabolic rates for glucose (rCMRglc), determined by positron emission tomography using 18F-2-deoxy-2-fluoro-D-glucose, provide a measure of the functional associations between brain regions. We compared correlations between ratios of resting rCMRglc to global brain metabolism from 14 healthy autistic men (ages, 18 to 39 years) with those from 14 matched control subjects. The autistic group showed significantly fewer large positive correlations between frontal and parietal regions, particularly those with the left inferior frontal region and its right hemispheric homologue, and significantly lower correlations of the thalamus, caudate nucleus, lenticular nucleus, and insula with frontal and parietal regions, with many correlations negative in the autistic group that were positive in the control group. These results are compatible with functionally impaired interactions between frontal/parietal regions and the neostriatum and thalamus, regions that subserve directed attention.
Ten asymptomatic individuals at risk for Huntington's disease (HD) were determined by the use of linked DNA probes to have a high (HD+ group) or low (HD- group) probability of having inherited the mutant gene. Neuropsychological examination, performed without knowledge of DNA results, revealed impairments in five of seven subjects in the HD+ group. Abnormalities were related to visuospatial abilities or to functions associated with the frontal lobes. All three subjects in the HD- group showed no neuropsychological impairment. Statistical analyses confirmed differences between the HD+ and HD- groups. Affected parents of subjects were at least 12 years older at symptom onset. These results demonstrate that clear neuropsychological impairment may be present in HD even when overt signs and symptoms are not expected for a number of years.
A mass spectral characterization of a set of anthracyclines and anthracyclinones comprised of daunorubicin, adriamycin and their modified analogs was carried out by using negative and positive fast atom bombardment (FAB) ionization techniques. Addition of more than one hydrogen to the molecular ions of the anthracyclines was observed. The choice of the FAB matrix played an important role in the characterization of these compounds. The dominant ions in the molecular ion region were M-. (or M+.) and MH- (or MH+.2) when sulfolane and glycerol, respectively, were employed as the FAB solvents. The major fragmentation was cleavage of the glycosidic bond with the charge retention mainly on the aglycone moiety. Aromatization of the tetracyclic ring promoted further fragmentation of the aglycone moiety. The anthracyclinones could be characterized only by negative FAB ionization using sulfolane as the FAB matrix. The assigned fragmentation pathways were confirmed by acquiring metastable ion spectra using B/E linked-field scans.
Growth cone cytoskeletons were prepared by detergent extraction of growth cones isolated from neonatal rat forebrain by the method of Gordon-Weeks and Lockerbie (Neuroscience, 13 (1984) 119-136). SDS-PAGE analysis of growth cone cytoskeletons revealed the presence of several major bands, identified by their mobility as actin (43 kDa Mr), myosin heavy chain (195 kDa Mr), spectrin (235 and 240 kDa Mr), and tubulin (51-54 kDa Mr). The identity of these proteins was confirmed by immunoblot analysis using specific antibodies to these proteins which further revealed that the predominant form of alpha-tubulin in the growth cone cytoskeleton and in the soluble pool of tubulin is tyrosinated at the C-terminal.
Somatostatin immunoreactive (SOM-I) perikarya were first observed in the ventral horn at E12, in the presumptive intermediate gray area at E14, and in the alar plate of the rostral spinal cord at E14. In general, after their initial appearance, their density increased and then decreased during development. A moderate density of SOM-I varicosities became obvious in the superficial laminae of the E20 dorsal horn. By E12 a few SOM-I perikarya, interpreted to be dorsal root ganglia, were observed lateral to the spinal cord, and by E13, SOM immunoreactivity was visualized within the central and peripheral processes of dorsal root ganglion axons. In the marginal zone, SOM-I fibers were first demonstrable in the ventral funiculus at E14, and in the lateral funiculus at E15. After their initial appearance, their density increased and then decreased with age, with the exception of the dorsal part of the lateral funiculus where it increased at the early stages of development to an apparently stable level. The early detection of SOM immunoreactivity in specific spinal regions corresponds well with the birth dates of cells in those regions. This indicates that the SOM-I cells are capable of synthesizing the substance at least as early as they have entered their final cell division.
Two families with five patients affected with fucosidosis are described. Within each family, both type I and type II fucosidosis are present. This suggests that environmental factors or &quot;modifying genes&quot; different from the fucosidase structural gene contribute to the phenotype of a fucosidosis patient.
In a lexical decision paradigm subjects viewed character strings and indicated if they were true words. Half of the stimulus words occur frequently and half occur infrequently in printed English. The probability that a stimulus was a true word varied across conditions. Event-related brain potentials (ERPs) and reaction time (RT) were recorded. The latency of the P300 ERP was used to estimate stimulus evaluation time independently of factors influenced by response selection and execution. Uncommon words were associated with longer P300 latencies, reduced P300 amplitude, and slower responses. The probability of a stimulus being a true word in any given sequence affected RT, but produced only small effects on P300 latency. The results suggest that: (1) the effects of word frequency originate early during processing, (2) stimulus probability affects response priming mostly for stimuli which do not evoke a high-level code, and (3) uncommon words require more processing capacity for their evaluation than common words. The results are discussed in the context of word recognition models.
In the present study two recently developed techniques have been combined to enable the simultaneous in vivo determination of pulsatile release of GnRH, LH, and FSH in the orchidectomized rat. The first of these techniques involves the implantation of two vascular catheters and collecting serial blood samples through one while simultaneously infusing a replacement blood mixture through the other; consequently, blood samples can be collected for an extended period of time, and detailed plasma LH and FSH release profiles can be established for individual animals. The second technique involves push-pull perfusion of the pituitary gland to determine changes in GnRH concentration as might be perceived by the gonadotropes. For each animal (n = 6), blood (150 microliters) and push-pull perfusate (200 microliters) samples were collected at 5- and 10-min intervals, respectively, for approximately 6 h, and the hormone release profiles were determined by RIA. All of the rats showed a clear pulsatile release pattern for GnRH, LH, and FSH. Moreover, the interpulse interval was remarkably similar for each of these hormones (36.9, 41.5, and 43.5 min, respectively, as determined by PULSAR). The percentage of GnRH pulses associated with a gonadotropin pulse was 72% for LH and 76% for FSH; only 14% of the pulses were silent for both gonadotropins. These results demonstrate that in the orchidectomized rat the pulsatile pattern of GnRH release is reflected in the pulsatile pattern of not only LH but also FSH. They may, therefore, be construed to support the concept that the pulsatile secretion of both gonadotropins is primarily orchestrated by a single hypothalamic releasing hormone. Alternatively, if two separate hypothalamic releasing hormones do indeed exist (LHRH and FSH-releasing hormone), it would appear that in the orchidectomized rat their episodic release is tightly coupled to the same hypothalamic pulse generator.
We recently reported structural changes in nodes of Ranvier of frog dorsal roots that are associated with activation at 20 or 50 Hz for 15 min. The structural effects co-occur with alterations in the latency, amplitude, and waveform of the compound action potential. The alterations in nodal morphology include formation of large extracellular vacuoles separating myelin terminal lammelae of the paranodal apparatus. Vacuolization was not apparent when the nerve was allowed to recover for 30 min prior to fixation and processing for transmission electron microscopy, indicating that it is a transient phenomenon. We first observed this effect in axons from nerve roots fixed with aldehydes and processed conventionally for TEM. The possibility that the changes noted actually occur later during tissue processing, reflecting differences in sensitivity to fixation or dehydration, remained. To address this concern we examined activated frog nodes processed by three different methods: (i) rapid freezing/freeze-substitution, (ii) direct osmication, and (iii) primary fixation in a mixture of aldehydes and osmium. Under these conditions paranodal vacuolization is still quite evident, but there are subtle differences, primarily in the appearance of the vacuoles. Also the nonstimulated control nodes fixed by direct osmication and by mixed aldehyde-osmium tended to have more vacuolized paranodes than did either the conventionally fixed or freeze-substituted preparations. Regardless, the changes are similar to those seen previously and very likely reflect changes occurring in situ. We interpret these results in the context of a functional model involving accumulation of potassium in the interstices of the compact myelin during impulse propagation. During periods of extended activity this system may be overloaded promoting focal edema and mechanical disruption of some paranodal structures. These changes could then bias subsequent nodal functions such as activation threshold, firing patterns, and conduction velocity.
The nerve fibers that supply the external muscle of the human gastrointestinal tract were examined for their immunoreactivity to the neuropeptides enkephalin, neuropeptide Y, somatostatin, substance P, and vasoactive intestinal peptide, for tyrosine hydroxylase (a catecholamine-synthesizing enzyme), and for coexistence between immunoreactivities in nerve fibers. Studies on coexistence revealed that the majority of reactive nerve fibers could be placed in one of two classes: (a) those fibers with reactivity to enkephalin or substance P, or both, and (b) fibers containing one or both of the peptides neuropeptide Y and vasoactive intestinal peptide. Many fibers immunoreactive for vasoactive intestinal peptide or neuropeptide Y, or both, were found throughout the external smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract, but neuropeptide Y-reactive fibers were less common in the small and large intestines than in the stomach and esophagus. Fibers immunoreactive for enkephalin or substance P, or both, were sparse in the esophagus, increased in numbers to reach maximal frequency in the pylorus, and maintained a similar frequency in the small and large intestines. Fibers with somatostatin or tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity were rare. In general, sphincter regions were similar to nonsphincter regions in peptide-immunoreactive fiber numbers and types, except that the internal anal sphincter had no enkephalin-immunoreactive fibers and very few substance P-reactive fibers. Moderate numbers of fibers reactive for neuropeptide Y and vasoactive intestinal peptide were found in the internal anal sphincter. It is suggested that enkephalin and substance P are in excitatory fibers and that vasoactive intestinal peptide and neuropeptide Y are in fibers inhibitory to the external muscle.

The importance of electrical dose measurement (&quot;dosimetry&quot;) during electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) has been gaining recognition. There is a need to explicitly provide full details of the electrical stimulus used during ECT. The conventional sinewave ECT stimulators in use in our country suffer from some limitations in this regard. To overcome these, a new model of ECT instrument was designed to deliver unmodified, bidirectional sinewave stimuli, with facilities for measuring the electrical dose incorporated into the instrument. The report outlines the features of this model of ECT instrument, and describes the dosimetric observations carried out in preclinical and clinical settings.
Formal training programmes in psychiatry for general practitioners (GPs) by Psychiatrists so far reported have involved MBBS graduates. But, a considerable proportion of registered medical practitioners who serve the community are non-MBBS about whose training needs, no experience is yet available. This paper describes a training programme in which an attempt was made to know the training needs of the non-MBBS GPs and also to assess the potential of the previously trained GPs to complementarily assist the psychiatrists in such training programmes.
A neurobiological hypothesis is proposed to explain the relation between the percentage cell loss in the cholinergic basal forebrain and the density of neuritic plaques in cortex, as found by Arendt et al. (1985) in Alzheimer's disease: When cells in the cholinergic basal forebrain die, their cortical synaptic target sites can be reoccupied by axonal sprouting of other neurons from the basal forebrain. This neuroplasticity hypothesis leads to equations that are consistent with the quantitative data of Arendt et al. (1985), and it makes specific predictions that can be tested experimentally. Moreover, this hypothesis suggests that the more rapid course of the presenile form of Alzheimer's disease and its more extensive pathology can be understood as a consequence of the decline in neuroplasticity with age.
The efficacy of the potent and selective unicyclic serotonin reuptake inhibitor, fluvoxamine, was evaluated in 38 consecutively admitted depressed patients judged refractory to standard antidepressants using operationalized criteria. Twenty-eight patients completed a single-blind protocol involving greater than or equal to 2 weeks of placebo and 4-6 weeks of active fluvoxamine. Eight (29%) were judged responders to fluvoxamine alone, eight (29%) responded to lithium augmentation of fluvoxamine and two (7%) responded to fluvoxamine, lithium and perphenazine. These data suggest that selective and potent serotonin reuptake inhibitors may be effective in patients refractory to generally available antidepressant medications.

The effect of stimulus frequency on the rate of muscle fatigue has been studied on dorsiflexor muscles of the human ankle. It was found that significantly fewer stimuli were required to abolish twitch and tetanic torque when the stimuli were delivered at 15 Hz rather than 30 Hz. At both stimulus frequencies twitch torque disappeared before tetanic torque. The difference in numbers of stimuli required for fatigue was not due to impaired excitation of muscle fibers at either of the two frequencies. At both stimulating frequencies, twitch fatigue appeared to be due to a defect in excitation-contraction coupling and/or the contractile machinery.
The P300 (P3) component of the event-related brain potential (ERP) was elicited with an auditory discrimination paradigm in a large group (n = 100) of undergraduates. Subjects who displayed bifurcated P3 peaks across trial blocks (n = 35) were classified into three groups based on the consistency of the replication of the two P3 subpeaks. Amplitude and latency measures for the first (P3a) and second (P3b) peaks from each subject demonstrated no statistically reliable differences between groups. Both subcomponents increased in amplitude from the frontal to parietal electrode sites, although the earlier peak was smaller at the frontal electrode site for the second compared to first trial block. The largest P3 peak for each trial block (P3MAX) from each subject was measured and produced amplitude and latency values that closely matched normative data from the same paradigm. The findings suggested that the P3a and P3b subcomponents from auditory stimuli may be distributed in the population in an asymmetric fashion, and that the P3MAX measurement technique provides a reasonable means of assessing amplitude and latency values from individuals with bifurcated peaks.
Voltage-sensitive dyes are a means to optically monitor changes in membrane potential. Their application in research has grown steadily over the last two decades as better dyes have been developed. The techniques presently in use are providing unique information about biologic systems from bacteria to the functional organization of primate occipital cortex. This review provides a history of the dyes, the data supporting their voltage sensitivity, and the techniques required for their use. The limitations in using and interpreting the voltage-sensitive dyes, as well as their diverse applications in all areas of research, especially neurophysiology, are comprehensively presented.
The ultrastructure of the region shown to be essential for pacemaking activity of the circular muscle of the canine colon was studied. This region, at the inner border of the circular muscle, consists of a network of several layers of interstitial cells of Cajal type III. These are interconnected to one another and to the adjacent circular muscle cells by numerous gap junctions. Elsewhere in circular muscle, gap junctions are rare and small. In addition, interstitial cells are in close (often less than 20 nm) contact with nerve varicosities containing large granular vesicles or sometimes small granular vesicles. The morphology of interstitial cells resembles that of others of type III. It is suggested that this arrangement of interstitial cells, circular smooth muscles, and nerves allows for a tightly coupled network of membrane oscillators to be subject to neural modulation.

This study describes regeneration of the neural retina in juvenile goldfish. The retina was destroyed with an intraocular injection of ouabain, a technique introduced by Wolburg and colleagues (Maier and Wolburg, 1979; Kurz-Isler and Wolburg, 1982). We confirmed their observation that the level of damage produced by the toxin was graded, in that neurons in the inner retinal layers were preferentially destroyed, and only in the more severely affected retinas were cells in the outer nuclear layer (i.e., photoreceptor cells) damaged. Evidence of retinal regeneration could be seen beginning about 2 weeks after the injection of ouabain. In contrast to previous studies (Maier and Wolburg, 1979), we found that regeneration took place only in those retinas in which photoreceptors had been destroyed. In cases in which the outer nuclear layer was spared, no regeneration of inner layers occurred, even after 6 months. Thymidine autoradiography was used to document the regeneration of new retinal neurons and to show that rod precursors, like other dividing cells, were not destroyed by the ouabain, but in contrast showed an increased mitotic activity. Regeneration did not proceed uniformly, but was initiated at neurogenic foci scattered across the retina. These foci consisted of clusters of dividing neuroepithelial-like cells. The evidence is consistent with the proposal that these cells were derived from rod precursors. These results imply that rod precursors are capable of a wider range of developmental fates than they normally express.
Isolated myelin has been used for determinations of membrane surface charge density and topographical mapping of components in the membrane. To determine how similar such myelin is to myelin of intact tissue, we have used x-ray diffraction to compare their intermembrane interactions. The interactions were monitored by measuring the myelin period in samples treated with distilled water, buffered saline at pH 4-9 and ionic strength 0.06-0.18, and saline containing HgCl2 or triethyl tin sulfate. Myelin was isolated from whole brains and sciatic nerves of mice by conventional methods involving sucrose gradient centrifugation and osmotic shock. Consistent with previous findings, electron microscopy showed that the multilamellar morphology, staining, and repeat periods of isolated myelin were essentially like those of intact myelin; however, the membrane stacks were less extensive than those in whole tissue. X-ray diffraction revealed that isolated CNS myelin was like intact myelin in showing reversible compaction in acidic media and in distilled water. However, unlike the myelin in whole tissue, isolated CNS myelin did not swell in hypotonic or alkaline media, or in the presence of HgCl2-saline or triethyl tin. The altered membrane interactions could result from an increase in adhesiveness of the apposed membrane surfaces. Reorganization of proteolipid protein and/or a reduction of surface charge could account for the change in surface properties of isolated CNS myelin. Isolated PNS myelin, like the membranes in whole tissue, showed both compaction and swelling; however, the membrane pairs were disordered in the swollen structure. This irregular membrane swelling could result from charge variation in the extracellular surfaces.
The subcellular location of calmodulin- and cyclic AMP stimulated protein kinases was assessed in synaptosomes which were prepared on Percoll density gradients. The distribution of the protein kinases between the outside and the inside and between the soluble and membrane fractions was determined by incubating intact and lysed synaptosomes, as well as supernatant and pellet fractions obtained from lysed synaptosomes, in the presence of [gamma-32P]ATP. Protein kinase activity was assessed by the labelling of endogenous proteins, or exogenous peptide substrates, under conditions optimized for either calmodulin- or cyclic AMP-stimulated protein phosphorylation. When assessed by calmodulin-stimulated autophosphorylation of the alpha subunit of calmodulin kinase II, 44% of this enzyme was on the outside of synaptosomes, and 41% was in the 100,000 g supernatant. Using an exogenous peptide substrate, the distribution of total calmodulin-stimulated kinase activity was 27% on the outside and 34% in the supernatant. The high proportion of calmodulin kinase II on the outside of synaptosomes is consistent with its known localization at postsynaptic densities. The proportion of calmodulin kinase II which was soluble depended on the ionic strength conditions used to prepare the supernatant, but the results suggest that a major proportion of this enzyme which is inside synaptosomes is soluble. When assessed by cyclic AMP-stimulated phosphorylation of endogenous substrates, no cyclic AMP-stimulated kinase activity was observed on the outside of synaptosomes, whereas 21% was found with an exogenous peptide substrate. This suggests that if endogenous substrates are present on the outside of synaptosomes, then the enzyme does not have access to them. The cyclic AMP-stimulated protein kinase present inside synaptosomes was largely bound to membranes and/or the cytoskeleton, with only 10% found in the supernatant when assessed by endogenous protein phosphorylation and 25% with an exogenous substrate. The markedly different distribution of the calmodulin- and cyclic AMP-stimulated protein kinases presumably reflects differences in the functions of these enzymes at synapses.
T lymphocyte subset percentages were determined in 16 total lymphoid irradiation (TLI) treated and 18 sham treated control patients with chronic progressive multiple sclerosis. During the first year after treatment, the ratio of T helper/inducer to T suppressor/cytotoxic cells (Th/Ts ratio) was significantly higher in sham treated multiple sclerosis patients who worsened clinically compared with TLI treated and sham treated multiple sclerosis patients who remained clinically stable. TLI caused a fall in the percentage of T helper cells in treated patients, while the percentage of T suppressor cells remained stable during the first year after treatment. In contrast, the percentage of T suppressor cells fell in sham treated multiple sclerosis patients who worsened clinically.
Immunocytochemical and quantitative immunochemical techniques were used to study the expression of Alz-50 antigen, ubiquitin and Tau in neurologic disorders characterized by the formation of filamentous neuronal inclusions. Alz-50, anti-ubiquitin and Tau-1 immunostained the intraneuronal neurofibrillary tangles and the neuritic component of plaques, both in Alzheimer's disease and in the brains of patients without dementia, but extraneuronal tangles were largely unstained. These antibodies also reacted with Pick bodies, and with the neurofibrillary tangles of Kufs' disease and Guam Parkinsonism-dementia. In sections from the brain of a patient with progressive supranuclear palsy, virtually all of the tangles were immunostained with Tau-1 but only a few with Alz-50 or anti-ubiquitin. Anti-ubiquitin also labelled Lewy bodies and the inclusions of granulovacuolar degeneration. Quantitative analysis of immunoblots of homogenized frontal cortex showed significantly more Alz-50 antigen in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's and Pick's disease than in controls. The level of this antigen was increased both in the crude homogenates and in the cytosolic fraction. Ubiquitin immunoreactivity was increased only in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease and then only in the crude homogenates. The finding that antigenic determinants for Alz-50, anti-ubiquitin and Tau-1 are shared by several filamentous neuronal inclusions occurring in diverse neurologic disorders may reflect common metabolic defects underlying the formation of these inclusions, or common metabolic responses to their presence.
1. Extracellular discharges were recorded from neurons in the inferior temporal cortex (area TE) of three macaque monkeys while they performed visual fixation and pattern discrimination tasks. For the pattern discrimination task, monkey was trained to release the lever quickly at the onset of one of two pattern stimuli and to release the lever at the dimming of the other pattern. During this task, neutral light stimulus (light bar) to which the monkey was not required to respond was presented once a trial either prior to the onset of the discriminandum or during presentation of the pattern that dimmed later. The neuronal activities evoked by the neutral stimulus under these two conditions were compared. 2. When the discriminanda were located at the center or at 5 degrees in the contralateral visual field, one-half of the neurons showed significantly smaller responses to the neutral stimulus when it was presented during presentation of the dimming pattern than when it was presented prior to the onset of the discriminandum. 3. The suppressive effect depended on the location of the two stimuli. When the neutral stimulus was located in the ipsilateral visual field and the pattern was located in the contralateral visual field, the response to the neutral stimulus was suppressed. However, when the pattern was located in the ipsilateral visual field (5 degrees visual angle), still within the receptive field for many neurons, the suppressive effect of the pattern on the response to the neutral stimulus in the contralateral visual field was almost undetectable. 4. When the pattern was located nearer the fovea than was the neutral stimulus, the suppressive effect was greater than when the pattern was located more peripherally to the neutral stimulus. Different from the receptive field of more primary visual neurons, this suppressive effect did not appear to be related to the neuron's responsiveness to the patterns nor to precise stimulus location in the receptive field. 5. The magnitude of suppression by the attended pattern on the visual response during the pattern discrimination task correlated with the suppression noted in the presence of a fixation spot during the fixation tasks, while the animals did not fixate on the attended pattern. The response of some neurons to the neutral stimulus prior to pattern presentation during the pattern discrimination task was enhanced slightly compared with the response recorded during the simple fixation task.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Habituation in Stentor was shown in the previous paper (Wood, 1988) to result from a progressive diminution in mechanoreceptor potential amplitude during the course of repetitive mechanical stimulation. The source of this diminution was analyzed in the present studies by eliciting mechanoreceptor currents from control and habituated cells under voltage clamp control. The I-V plots obtained have a voltage-dependent region between -60 and -20 mV, and a linear voltage-independent region between -20 and 20 mV, with a reversal potential near 20 mV. The slope of the linear region did not change as a result of habituation indicating that the maximum mechanoreceptor current, and hence the total number of mechanoreceptor channels, was the same in control and habituated cells. The mechanoreceptor current reversal potential was changed by only a few millivolts, from 21.6 to 17.2 mV, leaving the driving force term for the mechanoreceptor current at resting potential relatively unchanged. On the other hand, the voltage-dependent region of the I-V plot became significantly steeper after habituation (9.6 mV/e-fold change) compared to its value before habituation (12.3 mV/e-fold change). This shift in voltage dependence is sufficient to explain the diminution in receptor potential amplitude seen during normal recordings at resting potential. The importance of the voltage-dependent characteristic of the mechanoreceptor channels to the habituation process was corroborated by the observation that the amplitude of receptor potentials elicited from cells depolarized by current pulses habituated to only a very limited degree while receptor potentials elicited at resting potential underwent marked habituation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The contractile protozoan Stentor coeruleus habituates during repetition of the mechanical stimulus used to elicit the initial contractions. This decrement in response probability was found to be highly correlated with a reduction in receptor potential amplitude, while the amplitude of the action potentials that triggered the contractions did not change. When mechanical stimulation elicited receptor potentials and not action potentials, the receptor potential did not habituate significantly. Conversely, action potentials repetitively elicited by current pulses habituated animals to mechanical stimuli. Similarly, voltage steps used to simulate action potentials produced pronounced decrements in receptor currents recorded from voltage-clamped cells, while mechanical stimulation produced only small decrements. Thus, habituation depends primarily on action potential production, while mechanical stimulation itself makes a much smaller, but significant, contribution. The temporal relation between mechanical stimuli and action potentials, when both occur, is inconsequential in determining the rate and degree of habituation produced.
Rats were treated for 21 d with the selective D1 dopamine receptor antagonist SCH23390, the selective D2 dopamine receptor antagonist spiperone, the nonselective dopamine receptor antagonist cis-flupentixol, or a combination of SCH23390 and spiperone. In addition, a group of rats received L-prolyl-L-leucyl-glycinamide (PLG) for 5 d after the 21 d chronic spiperone treatment. Chronic treatment with SCH23390 resulted in a significant increase in D1 dopamine receptor density with no change in the D2 dopamine receptor density. Conversely, spiperone treatment resulted in a significant increase in D2 dopamine receptors and no change in D1 dopamine receptor density. PLG treatment had no effect. SCH23390 plus spiperone treatment resulted in a significant increase in both D1 and D2 dopamine receptor densities. However, although in vitro cis-flupentixol has an equal affinity for D1 and D2 dopamine receptors, only the D2 dopamine receptor density increased after chronic treatment with cis-flupentixol. In vivo treatment with the protein-modifying reagent N-ethoxycarbonyl-2-ethoxy-1,2-dihydroquinoline (EEDQ), which irreversibly inactivates D1 and D2 dopamine receptors, was used to investigate the paradoxical, selective D2 dopamine receptor up-regulation induced by cis-flupentixol treatment. In vivo treatment with cis-flupentixol before EEDQ administration prevented the D1 and D2 dopamine receptor reductions induced by EEDQ. However, cis-flupentixol protected, in a dose-dependent manner, a greater percentage of D2 dopamine receptors than of D1 dopamine receptors from EEDQ-induced modification. These data indicate that, in vivo, cis-flupentixol preferentially interacts with D2 dopamine receptors and could explain why only D2 dopamine receptors were up-regulated following chronic treatment with cis-flupentixol. Rats were tested for their cataleptic response to the administered drug over the course of the chronic drug treatment. Catalepsy scores of rats receiving spiperone decreased over the course of treatment, with a significant reduction in catalepsy occurring by treatment day 5. The profound catalepsy observed in rats receiving SCH23390 did not change over the 21 d of treatment. Rats receiving cis-flupentixol demonstrated tolerance to its cataleptogenic effects, with a significant reduction in catalepsy observed by treatment day 7. During the 3 week treatment, the time between drug injection and a full cataleptic response to cis-flupentixol increased from 20 to 60 min, suggesting a tolerance to the D2, but not D1, dopamine receptor antagonism by cis-flupentixol.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The role of the GABA-benzodiazepine receptor complex in the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy was investigated by recording the electrophysiological responses of single cerebellar Purkinje neurons from rabbits with hepatic encephalopathy due to galactosamine-induced fulminant hepatic failure. Both the GABAmimetic muscimol and the benzodiazepine receptor agonist flunitrazepam were 3-4 times more potent in depressing the spontaneous activity of Purkinje neurons from rabbits with hepatic encephalopathy than from control animals. Furthermore, qualitatively different responses of Purkinje neurons to benzodiazepine receptor antagonists (Ro 15-1788 and Ro 14-7437) were found in controls and rabbits with hepatic encephalopathy. These compounds markedly excited Purkinje neurons from rabbits with hepatic encephalopathy, but had either no effect (Ro 14-7437) or partially suppressed (Ro 15-1788) the spontaneous activity of neurons from control animals. In addition, incubation of Purkinje neurons from rabbits with hepatic encephalopathy with subthreshold concentrations of Ro 14-7437 reduced their sensitivity to muscimol, whereas treatment of control neurons with Ro 14-7437 had no effect on their sensitivity to muscimol. Finally, Purkinje neurons from hepatic encephalopathy and control rabbits displayed no difference in sensitivity to the depressant actions of the alpha-adrenoceptor agonist phenylephrine. These findings demonstrate a differential responsiveness of Purkinje neurons from an animal model of hepatic encephalopathy to ligands that interact with the GABA-benzodiazepine receptor complex. Furthermore, the observations made in this experimental model are consistent with the involvement of the GABA-benzodiazepine receptor complex in mediating hepatic encephalopathy, and provide a potential explanation for the reported efficacy of benzodiazepine receptor antagonists in ameliorating this syndrome.
Immunocytochemistry was used to establish the cellular localization of choline acetyltransferase [ChAT] throughout the rostrocaudal portions of the nuclei of the solitary tracts [NTS] in rat brain. By light microscopy, two distinct populations of ChAT-positive cells were identified. The first consisted of relatively few, medium-sized neurons located in the caudal one-half of the medial NTS just dorsal to the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus. The second population of ChAT-labeled neurons was located more anteriorly and surrounded the medial and dorsal borders of the tractus solitarius. These cells were more abundant and smaller diameter than those located more caudally. Thick, non-varicose processes with the light microscopic characteristics of dendrites also were selectively labeled for ChAT. A few of these processes were located near or were continuous with the labeled perikarya of the NTS. However, the vast majority of the immunoreactive processes could be traced from ChAT-labeled perikarya in the ventrally adjacent dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus. These dorsally directed dendrites aborized extensively throughout the NTS, but they were densest in the rostral two-thirds of the nucleus. Caudally, the labeled dendrites coursed horizontally, forming a commissure-like structure between the two vagal motor nuclei. Electron microscopy confirmed the perikaryal and dendritic localization of ChAT in the NTS. The perikarya were characterized by dense peroxidase immunoreactivity throughout the cytoplasm, infolded nuclear membranes, and somatic synapses. The labeled dendritic profiles also were intensely immunoreactive and received synaptic input from unlabeled terminals. The unlabeled afferents to somata and dendrites contained large populations of small clear vesicles.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Photoradiation therapy is a form of local treatment that depends on the selective retention of a photosensitizer, such as hematoporphyrin derivative (HpD), by the tumor followed by treatment with light of an appropriate wavelength to activate the sensitizer in the tumor. The selective uptake of HpD by cerebral tumors has been demonstrated both in laboratory animal model studies and in clinical studies, and selective destruction of intracerebral tumors has been demonstrated in animal glioma models. The biological basis for photoradiation therapy and, in particular, the mechanisms for the selective uptake of the sensitizer into the tumor and the destruction of tumor with photoradiation therapy are discussed. Current evidence suggests that singlet oxygen is the major intermediary leading to cell damage, although other radicals such as hydrogen peroxide and hydroxyl radicals may be involved. Other studies suggest that the initial damage is to the blood vessels, and the tumor subsequently undergoes ischemic changes. Sixty-four patients treated with photoradiation therapy have been reported in the literature. The initial clinical studies were disappointing in their therapeutic effect but these studies often included treatment of recurrent gliomas and low doses of light were used. Technical advances, particularly in laser technology, have enabled more effective photoradiation therapy and the clinical trials are reviewed.
The purpose of this study was to explore the dopaminergic control of the striatonigral dynorphin system. Seven daily injections of a dopamine (DA) agonist, apomorphine (APO, 5 mg/kg, b.i.d., s.c.), caused a significant increase of dynorphin A (1-8)-like immunoreactivity (DN-LI) in the striatum (140% over control) and substantia nigra (41% over control) without changing DN-LI in frontal cortex, hypothalamus and hippocampus. Immunocytochemistry revealed intense dynorphin A (1-17)-like immunostaining in striatal &quot;patch&quot; neurons and striatonigral fibers after APO treatment. In order to understand the mechanism of increase in the peptide level, the abundance of preprodynorphin mRNA was quantified by Northern blot hybridization with a 32P-labeled cRNA probe coding for rat preprodynorphin. Seven daily injections of APO increased the abundance of striatal preprodynorphin mRNA by 60%. In another experiment, rats received a single injection of various doses of APO (0.5-2.5 mg/kg s.c.). Striatal DN-LI was decreased by 15% 1 hr after injection of a dose of 2.5 mg/kg of APO. Seven daily injections or a single injection of D-amphetamine produced effects similar to those elicited by APO. These studies reveal that the nigrostriatal DA system plays an important role in modulating the metabolism of striatonigral dynorphin-containing neurons.
1. After ischaemic ankle dorsiflexor muscles had been fatigued by repetitive stimulation of the peroneal nerve at 15 Hz, there was a reduction in voluntary EMG activity which persisted as long as the arterial cuff remained inflated. 2. The reduction in voluntary EMG activity could not have been due to loss of excitability at the neuromuscular junctions or muscle fibre membranes since the M-waves (muscle compound action potentials) evoked by peroneal nerve stimulation were well maintained. 3. The preceding observations were consistent with the view that the reduction in EMG activity was due to reflex inhibition of motoneurones by afferents from the fatigued muscle. 4. The absence of responses to stimuli interpolated among the voluntary activity indicated that any motor units which could not be recruited in the fatigued muscle were no longer capable of generating tension.
1. In chloralose-urethane-anaesthetized dogs a manometric assembly was inserted via a gastrostomy to monitor pyloric pressure with a sleeve sensor. Antral and duodenal contractions were monitored with both manometric side holes and serosal strain gauges. 2. Subserosal silver wire electrodes were placed in the antrum 5 cm orad and the duodenum 3 cm aborad to the pylorus to facilitate field stimulation of intramural nerves. 3. The pylorus exerted spontaneous tone (10.8 +/- 4.8 mmHg) with phasic contractions occurring at a rate varying from 1-5 min-1 and, at times, with a superimposed higher frequency up to 15 min-1. Atropine (30 micrograms kg-1 I.V. and 10 micrograms I.A.) reduced and tetrodotoxin (50-100 micrograms I.A.) enhanced the phasic activity significantly. 4. Bilateral cervical vagal section had no consistent influence on pyloric motility. 5. Stimulation of the distal ends of the cervical vagal nerves at low frequencies (0.2-0.5 Hz, 1-3 ms, 20 V) induced phasic pyloric contractions, which were abolished by atropine or hexamethonium (10 mg kg-1 I.V. and 1 mg I.A.). Higher frequencies (greater than 0.7 Hz) of stimulation inhibited both phasic and tonic contractions and this inhibition was unaffected by atropine, hexamethonium, phentolamine (1.5 mg kg-1 I.V. and 100 micrograms I.A.) or propranolol (1 mg kg-1 I.V. and 100 micrograms I.A.). All neural responses were blocked by tetrodotoxin (50-100 micrograms I.A.). 6. Duodenal field stimulation (0.2-5 Hz, 0.5 ms, 40 V) induced strong phasic and tonic contractions in the pylorus. This excitation was blocked by atropine, hexamethonium, tetrodotoxin (50-100 micrograms I.A.) or duodenal transection orad to the stimulating electrodes. 7. Antral field stimulation (0.5-1 Hz, 0.5 ms, 40 V) completely abolished phasic activity in the pylorus and reduced tonic activity, regardless of whether the contractile activity was spontaneous or induced by neural stimulation. This inhibitory action was unaffected by atropine, hexamethonium or propranolol but was blocked by tetrodotoxin and antral transection aborad to the stimulating electrodes. Phentolamine attenuated the inhibitory effect of antral field stimulation on pyloric motility. 8. It is concluded that the distal canine pylorus exhibits myogenic tone and phasic activity which is modulated by extrinsic and intrinsic nerve pathways. Vagal nerves contain fibres, activated by different stimulus parameters which can either excite or inhibit pyloric activity. Activation of antral nerves inhibits pyloric activity, with both non-adrenergic, non-cholinergic and phentolamine-sensitive pathways contributing to this inhibitory response.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Immunoreactive-somatostatin (IR-SRIF) levels were investigated in the brain of 4 types of ataxic mice (Rolling Mouse Nagoya, Weaver, PCD, Staggerer) with different cerebellar pathologies. IR-SRIF concentrations (ng/mg) were found to be significantly elevated in both cerebellum and cerebrum of all ataxic mutant mice, IR-SRIF (ng/organ) was found to be increased in the cerebellum and cerebrum in Rolling Mouse Nagoya and PCD compared with control mice. The gel-filtration profile (Sephadex G-50) in the cerebellar extracts of Rolling Mouse Nagoya proved to be identical to that of control mice. Three peaks of IR-SRIF were found to be uniformly elevated in Rolling Mouse Nagoya, with the highest peak coinciding with authentic somatostatin-14. The present results suggest that elevated levels of IR-SRIF in the brain may play a role in the mechanism underlying the manifestation of ataxia in ataxic mutant mice, especially in Rolling Mouse Nagoya and PCD.
Neurotransmitter receptors and ion channels play a critical role in the transduction of signals at chemical synapses. The modulation of neurotransmitter receptor and ion channel function by protein phosphorylation is one of the major regulatory mechanisms in the control of synaptic transmission. The nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAcChR) has provided an excellent model system in which to study the modulation of neurotransmitter receptors and ion channels by protein phosphorylation since the structure and function of this receptor have been so extensively characterized. In this article, the structure of the nAcChR from the electric organ of electric fish, skeletal muscle, and the central and peripheral nervous system will be briefly reviewed. Emphasis will be placed on the regulation of the phosphorylation of nAcChR by second messengers and by neurotransmitters and hormones. In addition, recent studies on the functional modulation of nicotinic receptors by protein phosphorylation will be reviewed.

COP-1 is one of a series of polypeptide preparations developed to stimulate myelin basic protein (MBP), a natural component of the myelin sheath. MBP in Freund's complete adjuvant induces experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE), an animal model of multiple sclerosis (MS). In saline, MBP suppresses EAE. This is the rationale for the use of COP-1 in MS.

A canine limbic system preparation was used as the source of opioid peptide receptors to screen biologic extracts for the presence of opioid receptoractive peptides following their gradient RP-HPLC separation. Eight synthetic dynorphin peptides were studied for their ability to displace the commonly-used ligand 3H-etorphine from the canine limbic system P2 preparation. The peptides studied included the dynorphins 1-7, 1-8, 1-9, 1-10, 1-12, 1-13, 1-17, and dynorphin B. Two different types of opioid peptide molecules were utilized for the determination of the level of non-specific binding. In one study, methionine enkephalin, and in the second study each one of the eight corresponding dynorphins, was used for determination of non-specific binding. The experimental data indicated that 3H-etorphine bound to the canine limbic system P2 receptors, and that those dynorphins displaced effectively the 3H-etorphine from those receptors.
In cultured granule cells prelabeled with [3H]arachidonate the activation of excitatory amino acid receptors by various agonists results in a dose-dependent stimulation of [3H]arachidonic acid release. Glutamate and aspartate were the most potent agonists, whereas N-methyl-D-aspartate, kainate and quisqualate were less potent. Other neurotransmitter receptor agonists--GABA, baclofen and norepinephrine--were inactive, while carbachol induced only a slight effect. Since the transmitter-mediated release of [3H]arachidonate was blocked by phencyclidine, a selective inhibitor of NMDA-sensitive glutamate receptors, it can be inferred that the effects of all other receptor agonists were indirectly mediated via the release of glutamate from granule cells. Aspartate-evoked release was Ca2+-dependent and was abolished by the glutamate receptor inhibitors: Mg2+ ions and 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate. The inhibitors of phospholipase A2, quinacrine and p-bromophenacyl bromide, decreased the release of [3H]arachidonate in a dose-related manner.

Synaptic effects evoked in the entorhinal area by dorsal hippocampal commissure (dorsal psalterium) projections were analysed in anesthetized adult guinea-pigs by means of a field potential analysis. Stimuli applied to the caudal part of the dorsal psalterium evoked a complex response in the dorsal third of the entorhinal area. The early part of the entorhinal response consisted of a slow wave interrupted by a spike potential. The electrophysiological characteristics and the laminar distribution of the slow wave and of the spike potential, together with the presence of time-locked unit activity, suggested that dorsal psalterium projections evoke monosynaptic excitatory postsynaptic potentials leading to cellular discharge in radially oriented neurons of layers II and III. The commissural fibers responsible for these effects originate in the contralateral presubiculum. The early part of the entorhinal response was followed by three waves in close temporal sequence. These waves were polysynaptically generated and associated with excitatory and inhibitory synaptic effects. Inhibition was demonstrated for the monosynaptically generated spike potential. Whether these effects were mediated by intracortical circuits and/or extrinsic projections cannot be stated from the present results. Causal relations were observed between the entorhinal monosynaptic response and that evoked by dorsal psalterium stimulation in the ipsilateral dentate gyrus, previously shown to be relayed by perforant path fibers. The results indicate that presubicular commissural projections to the entorhinal area monosynaptically activate neurons of the perforant pathway, whose discharge brings about activation of the ipsilateral dentate gyrus.
The action of morphine on spontaneous and stimulus-evoked postsynaptic potentials was investigated in rat cortical neurons recorded intracellularly in vivo. Iontophoretically applied, morphine increased supra-threshold evoked depolarizing postsynaptic potentials inducing bursts of spikes, but only slightly increased weak (subthreshold) potentials. Spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic potentials were affected in a similar way, but their frequency did not change. Inhibitory postsynaptic potentials were only subsequently modified. Membrane hyperpolarization, induced by negative current injection, counteracts the morphine-induced burst generation. We suggest that the action of this alkaloid on threshold postsynaptic events involves a voltage-dependent mechanism, which may be triggered by synaptic currents.
The cerebral peptidergic caudodorsal cells of the freshwater snail Lymnaea stagnalis control egg laying and egg-laying behaviour by releasing peptides into (1) the haemolymph, from neurohaemal axon terminals in the periphery of the cerebral commissure and (2) the intercellular space of the central nervous system, from collaterals in the inner compartment of this commissure. Recently, it was shown that collateral release occurs from nonsynaptic release sites, which lack the morphological specializations that are characteristic of classical synapses. Probably, these sites enable the caudodorsal cells to communicate with central neurons in a nonsynaptic (&quot;paracrine&quot;, &quot;diffuse&quot;, &quot;hormone-like&quot;) fashion. The structural and ionic bases of nonsynaptic release were studied using the tannic acid-Ringer incubation-method for the detection of exocytotic release of secretory granule contents in vitro. Elevation of the extracellular potassium concentration strongly stimulates exocytotic activity in the collaterals. No stimulation was found in the absence of extracellular calcium ions. Similar results have been obtained for the neurohaemal axon terminals. Electron-dense material occurs apposed at the cytoplasmic side of the axolemma of collaterals (ethanolic phosphotungstic acid method). This material appears homologous with the presynaptic dense projections forming the &quot;vesicular grid&quot; in classical synapses. Such projections are also present in the neurohaemal axon terminals. It is concluded that secretion from nonsynaptic release sites in caudodorsal cell collaterals shares fundamental characteristics with secretion from conventional neuronal release sites (neurohaemal axon terminals and classical synapses); release occurs by exocytosis of secretory granules, is associated with a vesicular grid, is stimulated by membrane depolarization, and depends on the presence of extracellular calcium ions.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The effects of continuous exposure of chromaffin cells to nicotine, muscarine and excess potassium on the secretion of catecholamines and uptake of radiolabeled calcium were investigated in the isolated perfused adrenal gland of the rat. Perfusion with 20 microM nicotine-Krebs solution increased catecholamine secretion from a basal value of 5 ng to 273 ng in the first 5 min. The secretion declined to about 20 ng after 30 min of continuous exposure to nicotine (slow desensitization). 200 microM muscarine increased the secretion to about 150 ng within the first 5-10 min, and remained at the level of 110 ng even after continuous perfusion with muscarine for up to 40 min (no desensitization). About 700 ng of catecholamines were secreted within the first 5 min of exposure to 55 mM K, the secretion declined to about 350 ng in the next 5 min, and remained almost at this level for 120 min during continuous perfusion with excess K (partial desensitization). When the secretion of catecholamines was depressed by continuous exposure to nicotine for 30 min, introduction of 55 mM K or 200 microM muscarine (along with nicotine) still led to a large increase in the secretion of catecholamines. Omission of calcium ions from the perfusion medium containing either nicotine or 55 mM K caused a rapid decline in the secretion of catecholamines, suggesting influx of external calcium, but muscarine-induced secretion was only modestly reduced by calcium removal, suggesting mobilization of internal calcium. Addition of EGTA to calcium-free medium completely abolished the secretion evoked by all agents.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The carotid body is a major sensor of oxygen partial pressure in the arterial blood, and plays a role in the control of respiration. Despite extensive investigation of the structure, the cellular basis of the transduction mechanism remains poorly understood. We have developed a preparation of freshly dissociated cells from the rabbit carotid body, in which two cell types may be identified using morphological criteria. The preparation allows application of the patch clamp technique to characterize the properties of the cells which have otherwise proved difficult to study in situ. Carotid bodies of rabbits were dissociated using a combination of enzymatic and mechanical procedures. The dissociated preparation obtained consisted of clusters of spherical or ovoid cells of 12-15 microns in diameter and a distinct population of spherical cells of 8-10 microns diameter. Electron microscopic techniques were used to identify the cells present in the preparation. Again two populations of cells could be distinguished. A population of cells 10-12 microns in diameter, often found in clusters, possessed the dense-cored vesicles characteristic of Type I cells, while a population of smaller cells (diameter 5-7 microns) had peripherally condensed nuclear chromatin and fine cytoplasmic surface extensions characteristic of Type II cells. Patch clamp study of the cells showed that they represent two electrophysiologically distinct populations. The larger cells, corresponding to Type I cells, were found to be excitable, generating fast, sodium-dependent action potentials that were recorded both in the cell attached and whole cell recording configurations. The smaller Type II cells did not generate action potentials. Voltage clamp study of Type I cells allowed definition of a range of voltage-gated currents. These included an inactivating, tetrodotoxin-sensitive inward sodium current, a high threshold sustained inward calcium current, and outward potassium currents. A component of the outward current showed a dependence on voltage-gated calcium entry, and was blocked by cobalt or cadmium. Of the calcium-dependent current, a component was sensitive to apamin, and the remaining current was blocked by tetraethylammonium. Type II cells showed only a high threshold outward potassium current. These studies have thus revealed an electrophysiological differentiation that parallels the morphological differentiation of the cells of the carotid body. The Type I cell is essentially neuron-like in its properties, while the Type II cell appears to have properties resembling those of glial elements elsewhere in the nervous system.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The influence of central and peripheral target tissues on the expression of calbindin D-28k by sensory neurons of the chick dorsal root ganglia was tested under various experimental conditions. Firstly, dorsal root ganglia of chick embryos were transplanted at two stages of development onto the chorioallantoic membrane of a host embryo for a period of 4 or 8 days. In dorsal root ganglia grafted at E12, 20% of the ganglion cell bodies were immunoreactive to calbindin 4 and 8 days later; the percentage of calbindin-immunostained neurons in grafted dorsal root ganglia was similar to that observed in control dorsal root ganglia of the same embryonic age (E16 or 20). In contrast, when grafted dorsal root ganglia were taken from a donor embryo at E8, no calbindin-immunoreactive neuron was found 4 or 8 days later. However, when dorsal root ganglia at E8 were cotransplanted with musculature cells, 14% of the grafted ganglion cell bodies were again immunoreactive to calbindin 4 or 8 days later. Secondly, peripheral targets of sensory neurons were suppressed by excision of one hindlimb. After excision at E6, virtually all the ipsilateral dorsal root ganglia cells were free of calbindin immunoreaction after 6 days of reincubation. In contrast, when the excision was performed at E11, calbindin was expressed in about 9% of the nerve cell bodies. Thirdly, central connections were destroyed by cauterization of the lumbosacral spinal cord at E6 or E11. Six days after deprivation of central connections, the percentage of calbindin-immunoreactive ganglion cells was the same as in control dorsal root ganglia of the same age.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The expression of calbindin (28,000 mol. wt Vitamin D-dependent calcium binding protein) was studied in sensory neurons of the chick dorsal root ganglion by combining immunocytochemical and ultrastructural features. In the chick embryo at E10, about 20% of the neuroblasts were immunostained with antibodies raised to calbindin. After hatching, two subpopulations of primary sensory neurons were labeled with calbindin-antibodies and could be identified: the large Al cell bodies (6%) mainly characterized by huge blocks of rough endoplasmic reticulum and the small B1 cell bodies (14%) which contain parallel cisternae of rough endoplasmic reticulum. The other neuronal cell types A2 and B2 were devoid of any immunostaining. Thus, calbindin is an early and reliable marker of two subclasses of primary sensory neurons in the chick dorsal root ganglion.
The [Met]enkephalin, [Leu]enkephalin and [Met]enkephalin-arg-gly-leu contents of the upper part of the digestive tract (lower oesophageal sphincter, fundus, antrum, pylorus, duodenum, ileum) and coeliac ganglia of the cat were determined and identified. The enkephalin content of all the structures studied, expressed in femtomole/mg of wet tissue, was found to range from 83 to 446 with [Met]enkephalin; 19 to 63 with [Leu]enkephalin; 2.5 to 13 with [Met]enkephalin-arg-gly-leu. In the muscular and plexus layers the [Met]- and [Leu]enkephalin contents increase gradually from the lower oesophageal sphincter to the pylorus and then decrease from the duodenum to the ileum. The [Met]enkephalin versus [Leu]enkephalin ratio is 2.7 in the coeliac ganglia and ranges from 4.3 to 8.1 in the areas of the digestive tract investigated. In addition, the presence of authentic [Met]- and [Leu]enkephalin was confirmed in all the structures assayed by high pressure liquid chromatography. Owing to the low amounts of [Met]enkephalin-arg-gly-leu detected in individual samples of the coeliac ganglia and in the areas of the digestive tract investigated, it was not possible to characterize this peptide using high pressure liquid chromatography and therefore to confirm the presence of authentic [Met]enkephalin-arg-gly-leu in these structures. The differences in the enkephalin concentrations observed among these various areas of the digestive tract suggest that these peptides may act differently from one area to another, thus playing a complex integrative role in the nervous control of gastrointestinal tract motility.
The responses of single units in the vestibular nuclei, nucleus praepositus hypoglossi and in the brainstem, deep and posterior to the abducens nucleus, were studied in anaesthetized, paralysed cats. Natural vestibular stimulation was provided by horizontal, sinusoidal oscillation of the animal and extraocular muscle afferents of the ipsilateral eye were activated either by passive eye-movement or by electrical stimulation of the inferior oblique branch of the oculomotor nerve in the orbit. Unit responses to vestibular and/or orbital stimuli were examined in sets of peristimulus time histograms interleaved in time. Of 127 units exposed to both types of stimulus, 40 (32%) responded only to vestibular input; 46 (32%) were affected only by the orbital afferent signal and 19 (15%) received both signals; the remaining 22 units (17%) were discarded because they had polymodal (usually somaesthetic) input. Of the 93 units whose recording sites were determined histologically, 24 were in the medial vestibular nucleus, 16 in the n. praepositus hypoglossi and 45 in the magnocellular nucleus of the reticular formation posterior and deep to the abducens nucleus. In these three nuclei 19 units in total were found which carried the orbital proprioceptive afferent signal and also responded to horizontal vestibular stimulation. The input from the eye muscles proved able to modify the vestibular response by adding excitation or inhibition or both. Effects of the orbital signal were generally phasic. About half of the units which responded to passive eye-movement showed statistically significant differences between their responses to horizontal and to vertical eye-movement. We have shown previously that signals from extraocular muscle proprioceptors reach the vestibulo-oculomotor system in an amphibian and a bony fish; the present experiments show that this is the case in a mammal also. The fact that the visual and visuomotor behaviour of these three species is very different suggests that the proprioceptive signal may play some rather fundamental role in the vestibulo-ocular system. The principal interest of the present results is that they demonstrate that units in the central vestibular system of the cat, in structures which are known to be concerned in oculomotor control, and particularly in the organization of horizontal eye-movement, receive an afferent signal from the eye muscles during passive eye-movement. These brainstem nuclei are known to receive various combinations of input from the vestibular and visual systems and of signals which represent neck movement and eye position and velocity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The distribution of dopamine D1 receptors in the rat, labeled with [125I]SCH 23982, was studied using a quantitative in-vitro light-microscopic autoradiographic method. The binding of [125I]SCH 23982 to slide-mounted tissue sections and membrane preparations of prefrontal cortex was saturable, specific and of high affinity. Scatchard analysis revealed a Kd of 1.15 +/- 0.47 nM and Bmax of 8.76 +/- 0.34 fmol/mg tissue in prefrontal cortex membranes and a Kd of 1.27 +/- 0.14 nM and Bmax of 67.6 +/- 3.75 fmol/mg tissue in slide-mounted tissue sections at the level of the striatum. [125I]SCH 23982 was found to predominantly label D1 receptors, but a small fraction of the binding was to serotonin receptors. D1 receptors were found throughout the forebrain and were concentrated in the substantia nigra pars reticulata, accumbens nucleus, caudate putamen, entopeduncular nucleus, olfactory tubercle and the major island of Calleja. [125I]SCH 23982 binding to serotonin receptors was concentrated in the cortices, dorsal raphe, central gray, anterior hypothalamic area and the molecular cell layer of the cerebellum. Knowledge of the distribution of D1 receptors may increase our understanding of the role of D1 receptors in central nervous system dopaminergic function. Furthermore, data on the potential sites of interaction of [125I]SCH 23982 with serotonin receptors may help to understand the complex physiology and pharmacology of the primarily D1 selective compound.
Antibodies raised against GABA and glutamate were used to stain sections through locust thoracic ganglia for light and electron microscopy. Using a peroxidase-antiperoxidase method for light microscopy, the GABA antibody was shown to label inhibitory motor neurons thought to use GABA as their neurotransmitter, and the glutamate antibody to label excitatory motor neurons thought to use glutamate. An immunogold method was used to reveal labelled neuropilar processes in the electron microscope. Each antibody specifically labels a particular population of processes. With the GABA antibody, labelling is equally clear whether the processes concerned contain synaptic vesicles or not and is strongly contrasted against very low background levels. With the glutamate antibody, most processes show some affinity for the antibody, probably reflecting the presence of metabolic glutamate, however one population can be clearly distinguished by the presence of a much greater density of gold particles over synaptic vesicles. In the locust it appears, therefore, that the antibody can distinguish clearly between the metabolic and neurotransmitter pools of glutamate. It has been proposed that synaptic vesicles in GABAergic neurons have a different shape to those in glutamatergic neurons. This was supported by the electron microscope immunocytochemistry. Those showing GABA-like immunoreactivity contain predominantly pleomorphic agranular vesicles approximately 21 x 30 nm in diameter. Those showing glutamate-like immunoreactivity contain round agranular vesicles of about 38 nm in diameter. The GABA antibody appears to label all processes containing pleomorphic agranular vesicles. By contrast, some processes containing round agranular vesicles are not labelled by the glutamate antibody, even though the vesicles they contain are statistically identical in size to those in labelled profiles. With neither antibody was the labelling of glial cells greater than the background level.
Incubated slices of young rat cerebellum were used to examine the possible relationship between the neurotoxic effects of excitatory amino acids and their ability to elicit large increases in the levels of cyclic GMP in this tissue. No cell death was detectable following exposure of the slices to the guanylate cyclase activator, nitroprusside (up to 0.3 mM), the phosphodiesterase inhibitor, isobutylmethylxanthine (0.5 mM), or to cyclic GMP (10 mM) and its dibutyryl and 8-bromo derivatives (0.5 mM). However, incubation of the slices with tbe guanylate cyclase inhibitors, N-methylhydroxylamine and hydroxylamine (0.1-1 mM), methylene blue (10-100 microM), ethacrynic acid (300 microM) and retinol (1 mM) caused a progressive destruction of the differentiating cells. The damage induced by N-methylhydroxylamine and hydroxylamine was inhibited by nitroprusside, cyclic GMP and isobutylmethylxanthine. It could also be reduced by lowering the partial pressure of oxygen, by oxygen radical scavenging enzymes and by omitting Ca2+ from the medium. Oxygen radical generating enzyme systems mimicked the pattern of toxicity of the guanylate cyclase inhibitors but their effects were not reduced by nitroprusside or omission of Ca2+. The results indicate that guanylate cyclase/cyclic GMP does not mediate amino acid neurotoxicity but, instead, may be part of a protective mechanism against oxygen free radicals.
Primary cultures of astrocytes were used to investigate the effects of glucose deprivation on plasma membrane potential, on the respiration and on the energy status of these cells. Plasma membrane potential, as monitored with a cyanine dye, 3,3'-diethylthiadicarbocyanine, hyperpolarized by about 100% when glucose was added to substrate-deprived cells. The effect of glucose was prevented by iodoacetate or ouabain. In the absence of glucose, cellular adenosine triphosphate/adenosine diphosphate ratio was extensively reduced and pyruvate was unable either to restore energy status or to hyperpolarize the plasma membrane of astrocytes, although it was the preferential substrate for mitochondria within the cells. Glucose deprivation and inhibition of glycolysis or respiration in the presence of glucose caused dramatic decrease in transmembrane potassium ion and L-glutamate gradients. The gradients were not restored in the presence of pyruvate. Thus, aerobic glycolysis, rather than oxidation of pyruvate, is required to maintain maximal plasma membrane potential, adenosine triphosphate/adenosine diphosphate ratios as well as K+ and L-glutamate gradients. This evidence, together with the unresponsiveness of astrocyte respiration to ouabain, indicates a functional dissociation between energy dissipation at the plasma membrane and mitochondrial synthesis of adenosine triphosphate. The results are discussed with regard to the vulnerability of glia at low levels of blood glucose and the contribution of glial dysfunction to development of hypoglycaemic encephalopathy.
We have described the distribution of neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactive neurons in the medulla oblongata of the adult human. The majority of neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactive cells were found in four regions of the medulla: the ventrolateral reticular formation, the dorsomedial medulla, the secondary sensory nuclei and the rostral raphe nuclei. The morphology of neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactive cells varied in each of these regions. In the ventrolateral reticular formation, the labelled neurons were round and pigmented caudal to the obex but elongated and non-pigmented rostral to the obex; in the dorsomedial medulla, they were triangular and pigmented caudal to but not rostral to the obex; in the secondary sensory nuclei, they were multipolar, non-pigmented and significantly smaller than in the other areas; in the rostral raphe nuclei, they were bipolar and non-pigmented. Colocalization studies revealed that many neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactive cells also synthesize monoamines, consistent with conclusions based on a quantitative comparison of their distributions. Neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity was present in about 25% of presumed noradrenaline-synthesizing cells in the caudal ventrolateral medulla (corresponding to the A1 region); about 50% of adrenaline- and 70% of presumed serotonin-synthesizing cells in the rostral ventrolateral medulla (C1 and B2-3 regions); 90-100% of presumed noradrenaline-synthesizing cells in the dorsomedial medulla at and above the obex (A2 region); about 50% of adrenaline-synthesizing cells in the rostral dorsomedial medulla (C2 region); about 5% of presumed serotonin-synthesizing cells in the rostral raphe nuclei (B2-3 region). The largest of these groups was the presumed serotonin-synthesizing cells that contained neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity in the rostral ventrolateral medulla. This is the first report of such a cell group in the medulla of any mammal, and emphasizes the neuroanatomical differences between humans and other species.
Structure/activity relations of agonists and antagonists for the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor have been investigated by measuring the ability of a large range of substances to inhibit binding of [3H]2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoate to rat brain membranes. A major difference between optimum structures for agonist and antagonist activity lay in the differential effectiveness of sulphonic and phosphonic acid groups as the omega-acidic terminal in these two types of compound. The sulphonic acid moiety was an effective omega-acidic terminal in short chain agonists, but not in longer chain antagonists, while the phosphonic acid group was the most effective omega-acidic terminal in longer chain antagonists, but was only very weakly active in short chain agonists. It is proposed that the binding site of the omega-acidic terminal of antagonists is different from that for the omega-acidic group of agonists. Other structural features conducive to effective interaction of ligands with the receptor are discussed.
The distribution of D1 dopamine receptors was studied autoradiographically in the basal ganglia of the cat, monkey and human. These receptor binding sites were labeled directly with the D1-selective antagonist [3H]SCH 23390, and ligand-binding assays were performed concurrently. Serial- or same-action analysis permitted comparisons among D1 binding distributions, acetylcholinesterase staining and tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity. In all species studied, the dorsal striatum exhibited patches of particularly dense D1 binding in correspondence with acetylcholinesterase-poor striosomes. Highly patterned binding was present in the ventral striatum. Distinctions in binding density were observed among the subdivisions of the globus pallidus and of the substantia nigra. The external segment of the pallidum was extremely sparse in D1 binding, whereas the internal segment (or entopeduncular nucleus in the cat) was a site of high D1 binding density. The binding density was greatest in the core of the internal segment, and tyrosine hydroxylase-positive fibers surrounded and weakly dispersed themselves through this core. Weak binding was present in the ventral pallidum. In the substantia nigra, the pars reticulata demonstrated the densest binding, particularly medially. The pars compacta showed much sparser binding, though some of its tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons had dendrites extending ventrally into the zone of dense D1 binding in the pars reticulata. We conclude that [3H]SCH 23390-defined D1 binding is compartmentalized in the dorsal striatum and that, particularly in relation to the reported distributions of striatal D2 dopamine receptors, this is likely to be of functional significance in the dopaminergic modulation of intrastriatal neurotransmission as well as of afferent and efferent neurotransmission. The segregated localizations of D1 receptors in the substantia nigra suggest predominant activation of the pars reticulata, including ventral and medial regions adjacent to the densocellular zone. Specific pathways from compartments in the striatum to subdivisions of the pallidum may also be differentially modulated by dopamine acting via distinct receptor subtypes. At the level of the pallidum, such D1 modulation appears to be restricted to the internal segment, which projects to the thalamus, rather than to the external pallidum, which projects to the subthalamic nucleus.
Tritiated D-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoate has been prepared and evaluated as a radioligand for investigating N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in rat brain membranes. A radioactive impurity, which was more acidic than 2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoate, interfered with the binding assay for [3H]D-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoate in preliminary experiments and developed progressively with time of storage of the ligand, was isolated by ion-exchange purification and its binding site characterized. Binding of the 3H-impurity was increased in the presence of calcium ions, with a maximum effect at a concentration of 1-3 mM, but not by sodium, potassium or magnesium ions. It was inhibited by omega-phosphonate analogues of D-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoate and by inorganic phosphate but not by L-glutamate or any other omega-carboxylates, omega-sulphinates or omega-sulphonates tested. The site of binding for the 3H-impurity was not identified, but from its pharmacological profile it appears to be unrelated to any excitatory amino acid receptor so far described. Binding of purified [3H]D-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoate to rat cerebral cortical membranes was saturable (KD, 0.53 microM; Bmax, 4.3 pmol/mg protein), was maximal at pH 7.3, but was not particularly temperature sensitive. Dissociation of the receptor-ligand complex was very rapid. Magnesium ions had an inhibitory effect on the binding of [3H]D-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoate, but the mechanism of this action was not clear. For a wide range of competitive excitatory amino acid antagonists with different potencies and receptor specificities there was a direct relationship between their Ki values as inhibitors of [3H]D-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoate binding and their KD values for antagonism of N-methyl-D-aspartate induced depolarizations. Thus, [3H]D-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoate binds to electrophysiological N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. Among endogenous agonists, L-glutamate had the highest affinity (Ki 0.9 microM) for the [3H]D-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoate binding site; L-homocysteate and S-sulpho-L-cysteine also had high affinity. However, quinolinate and N-acetylaspartylglutamate had relatively low affinity. It is considered that L-glutamate is the most likely substance to be the transmitter activating N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors physiologically. A study of the regional distribution of [3H]D-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoate binding sites showed the hippocampus and cerebral cortex to have the highest density of these sites, while the cerebellum and spinal cord had the lowest.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The ionic mechanism of the inhibitory effect of serotonin was investigated in vitro in the CA1 region of the rat hippocampus by extra- and intracellular recordings. Local or bath applications of serotonin induced a long-lasting reduction of extracellularly recorded synaptic potentials and orthodromic population spikes without affecting the afferent volley or the antidromic population spike. Serotonin can also reduce the frequency of occurrence of spontaneous excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic potentials without any reduction of input resistance of the pyramidal neuron. During the response to serotonin, the conductance increase evoked by GABA, the inhibitory neurotransmitter, was not changed. A direct postsynaptic effect of serotonin was demonstrated: local or bath applications of serotonin induced a tetrodotoxin-resistant hyperpolarization and conductance increase. The conductance change was not reduced by manual clamp of the neurons to the control resting membrane potential; therefore, a possible involvement of the sodium-potassium electrogenic pump is unlikely. When neurons were loaded with chloride, serotonin could still induce a hyperpolarization with an apparent reversal more negative than the resting membrane potential. When neurons were loaded with caesium, the hyperpolarization and the conductance increase evoked by serotonin were blocked. It is therefore concluded that serotonin increases potassium permeability. Similar effects were induced by a 5-HT1A ligand. The slow after hyperpolarization was reduced by serotonin; the calcium spike was reduced at the same time. In caesium loaded neurons, the spike duration was not modified by serotonin. In the presence of extracellular caesium (4-5 mM), the serotonin-induced hyperpolarization and the conductance change were blocked, but the effect of serotonin on calcium spikes persisted. Tetraethylammonium (5-10 mM) or 4-aminopyridine (0.5 mM) had no effect on the response to serotonin. These data indicate that serotonin has a postsynaptic inhibitory action by an activating potassium conductance. The possibility of a regulation of calcium currents is discussed. The possible role of serotonin on intrinsic synaptic transmission is also discussed.
The anatomical distribution and pharmacological characteristics of the different types of neurohypophysial hormone binding sites were compared in the forebrains and pituitary glands of Long-Evans rats and its mutant Brattleboro strain, genetically deficient in vasopressin. Quantitative autoradiography on sections incubated in the presence of 5 nM of either [3H]oxytocin or [3H]vasopressin revealed the presence of the same types of sites in the brains of both strains but noticeable variations in their densities were found in several areas. In the forebrain, oxytocin/vasopressin sites, which bind both peptides with similar high nanomolar affinities, had the same locations and densities in the ventral subiculum, in several nuclei of the amygdala, the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and the olfactory tubercle. The density of such sites was, in contrast, lower in the ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus of the Brattleboro rat. Selective vasopressin sites which bind [3H]vasopressin with a nanomolar-range affinity and [3H]oxytocin with a much lower affinity showed more variations. They were not found in the Brattleboro rat thalamus but were highly concentrated in several thalamic nuclei in the Long-Evans rat. Conversely, their densities were higher in the dopaminergic A13 cell group of the zona incerta and the suprachiasmatic nucleus of the Brattleboro rat. Their densities were similar in the lateral septal nucleus and in the fundus striati of both strains. In the hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system, [3H]oxytocin and [3H]vasopressin binding occurred in the Long-Evans rat with characteristics different from those found in other brain areas. In the Brattleboro rat, no [3H]vasopressin binding and only low [3H]oxytocin binding, restricted to the magnocellular nuclei, were found.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Oxytocin and vasopressin binding sites were localized and characterized by quantitative autoradiography on consecutive sections of Long-Evans rat forebrains and pituitary glands, incubated in the presence of 5 nM [3H]oxytocin or 5 nM [3H]vasopressin. In the forebrain, two types of neurohypophysial hormone binding sites were thus defined. (1) Oxytocin/vasopressin sites with similar nanomolar-range affinities for [3H]oxytocin and [3H]vasopressin; both tritiated peptides were displaced from these sites in the presence of 10 microM of either oxytocin or vasopressin. The main areas bearing such sites were the ventral subiculum, several nuclei of the amygdala, the ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus, the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and the olfactory tubercle. (2) Selective vasopressin sites, binding [3H]vasopressin with nanomolar-range affinity and [3H]oxytocin with a much lower affinity; these sites were not labelled in the presence of 5 nM [3H]oxytocin, and 10 microM oxytocin displaced [3H]vasopressin binding by 80%. Such sites occurred in several thalamic nuclei, in the dopaminergic A13 cell group of the zona incerta, the suprachiasmatic nucleus, the fundus striati and the lateral septal nucleus. No selective oxytocin sites were detected. Different oxytocin and vasopressin binding characteristics were found in the hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system. In the paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei and in the pituitary neural lobe the [3H]vasopressin binding density was twice that of [3H]oxytocin; vasopressin was always more potent than oxytocin in displacing both [3H]vasopressin and [3H]oxytocin binding from those sites. Interaction of the tritiated peptides with neurophysins cannot be completely ruled out in these locations. The present data are discussed in correlation with the functional roles of the neurohypophysial peptides in the brain and the pharmacological characteristics of their receptors.
Previous work has indicated that nerve growth factor specifically and selectively increases choline acetyltransferase and acetylcholinesterase in organotypic cultures of rat basal forebrain-medial septal area. To determine whether these actions are potentially receptor-mediated, organotypic and dissociated basal forebrain-medial septal area cultures were examined. Two independent methods, [125I]nerve growth factor binding and immunocytochemistry with a monoclonal nerve growth factor receptor antibody (192-IgG), detected specific receptors. The nerve growth factor receptors were localized to two different cellular populations: flat, large, non-neuron-like cells, and small, round, process-bearing, neuron-like cells. Dissociation studies with [125I]nerve growth factor suggested that high-affinity receptors were localized to the neuron-like population, while only low-affinity receptors were localized to the non-neuron-like cells. We tentatively conclude that nerve growth factor may elicit cholinergic effects by directly binding to high-affinity receptors on neurons. To begin examining receptor regulation, cultures were exposed to exogenous, unlabeled nerve growth factor continuously for 10 days before binding studies were performed. Prior exposure to nerve growth factor did not alter binding characteristics of the receptor, using the present methods.
Trimethyltin is a neurotoxicant which produces a distinct pattern of neuronal cell death following peripheral administration of a single dose (8 mg/kg, i.p.) in rats. The cupric-silver degeneration stain was used to produce an atlas documenting the distribution and time course of trimethyltin-induced neuronal damage in adult, male Long-Evans rats. Animals were examined at survival times of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 10 and 18 days after intoxication. The earliest degeneration was observed at day 1 in the intermediate and ventral divisions of the lateral septal nucleus, followed by development of degeneration on days 2-4 in neuron populations including the septohippocampal nucleus, septohypothalamic nucleus, anterior olfactory nucleus, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, endopiriform nucleus, parafascicular nucleus, superior colliculus, interstitial nucleus of the posterior commissure, inferior colliculus, pontine nuclei, raphe nuclei, pars caudalis of the spinal trigeminal nucleus, the caudal aspect of nucleus tractus solitarius, dorsal vagal motor nucleus, granule cells in the dentate gyrus, pyramidal cells in CA fields of the hippocampus, and of neurons in the subiculum, pyriform cortex, entorhinal cortex and neocortex (mainly layer Vb and VI). This was followed by degenerative changes on days 5-7 in other structures, including the amygdaloid nuclei, the ventral posterolateral and ventral posteromedial thalamic nuclei and the periaqueductal gray. The distribution of terminal degeneration from these neurons indicate that specific pools of cells are affected in each structure, and the time course suggests somatofugal degeneration. The trimethyltin damage was also assessed with immunocytochemical visualization of a neuronotypic protein, protein-O-carboxyl methyltransferase and a radioimmunoassay for glial fibrillary acidic protein. Protein-O-carboxyl methyltransferase immunoreactivity was altered in neuronal populations damaged by trimethyltin, but did not appear to be either as sensitive or selective an assay of neuronal damage as the silver stain, especially at short survival times. Glial fibrillary acidic proteins were dramatically elevated 21 days after trimethyltin intoxication, particularly in areas of extensive damage. These studies revealed advantages and problems encountered in the use of each technique in assessing neurotoxic effects, forming a basis for discussion of the relative merits of using a battery of specific molecular probes for neurotoxicity evaluations.
Spinal cord axons and terminals stained for tyrosine hydroxylase-, serotonin- and substance P-like immunoreactivity were examined in guinea-pigs in the paraplegic phase of acute experimental allergic encephalomyelitis, an animal disease model for multiple sclerosis. Fibers positive for monoamine and substance P-like staining that terminated in the lumbar ventral horn appeared to be markedly damaged during the disease. However, no changes were detected in those substance P-containing fibers that terminated in the dorsal horn. It was concluded that small diameter, thinly myelinated or unmyelinated axons that course for long distances in the spinal cord, and, therefore, have a high probability for encountering inflammatory foci, are particularly vulnerable to damage during experimental allergic encephalomyelitis. Damage to these monoaminergic and peptidergic fibers may contribute to the neurological deficits that are associated with this autoimmune nervous system disease.
We have shown previously that intrathecal administration of substance P to the lower thoracic vertebral level increases sympathetic output and increases the adrenal output of catecholamines. As opioid peptides are co-released with catecholamines from the adrenal medullae, experiments were done to determine whether the intrathecal administration of substance P to the eighth thoracic vertebral level would alter reaction time in the tail-flick test. Intrathecal administration of substance P (6.5 nmoles in artificial cerebrospinal fluid) in the awake restrained rat increased the reaction time at 1 and 6 min after injection to about 130-140% of the preadministration values; reaction time returned to preadministration values by 11 min. Similar administration of cerebrospinal fluid was without effect. Administration of 6.5 nmoles of thyrotropin-releasing hormone or oxytocin, peptides which also increase sympathetic output, failed to mimic the effects of substance P. The substance P-induced increase in reaction time was absent in rats which had been medullectomized and in rats pretreated with naloxone (10 mg/kg). Pretreatment with 10 mg/kg of either phentolamine or the quaternary opiate antagonists, nalorphine methochloride and naloxone methobromide, had no effect on the substance P-induced increase in reaction time. These results suggest that substance P given intrathecally to the eighth thoracic vertebral level may activate spinal sympathetic neurons to the adrenal medullae to cause the release of an opioid into the circulation. This circulating opioid may in turn play a role in the regulation of the tail-flick reflex by a centrally-mediated depression.
The tachykinin-like immunoreactivity of the urinary bladder has been measured in various species by means of an antiserum (K12) having negligible cross-reactivity with substance P. The rank order for bladder content of tachykinin-like immunoreactivity was guinea-pig greater than mice greater than rat, similar to that found for substance P-like immunoreactivity. In all three species, both substance P- and tachykinin-like immunoreactivities were depleted by systemic capsaicin desensitization. The time course for depletion of substance P- and tachykinin-like immunoreactivities of the rat bladder following extrinsic denervation was almost superimposable. At reverse phase high pressure liquid chromatography, the major constituent of tachykinin-like immunoreactivity of the rat bladder co-eluted with neurokinin A. In vitro, the contractile response of the rat bladder to capsaicin (1 microM) was directly proportional to bladder tachykinin-like immunoreactivity while the response to field stimulation was not. In vivo, the volume threshold for reflex micturition was inversely proportional to bladder tachykinin-like immunoreactivity while amplitude of micturition contraction was not. Similar correlations were found in a previous study for substance P-like immunoreactivity. The contractile response to capsaicin or neurokinin A of the rat isolated bladder were significantly reduced by incubation with phenoxybenzamine at a concentration reported to produce a selective alkylation of neurokinin-2 receptors, while the response to substance P or KCl was unaffected. These findings indicate that multiple neurokinins co-exist in those bladder sensory nerves which are capsaicin-sensitive in adult rats. Both substance P- and tachykinin-like immunoreactivities in the rat bladder appear to be good functional markers of the sensory and &quot;efferent&quot; functions mediated by capsaicin-sensitive nerves, consistent with the hypothesis of a transmitter role for the corresponding peptides.
The present study examines the distribution of several neuropeptides, as revealed by immunohistochemistry in the isolated cord. Fetal rat spinal cord was grafted to the anterior chamber of the adult Sprague-Dawley albino rats. After intraocular maturation for 2-3 months, the amount and distribution of somatostatin, neuropeptide Y, substance P, enkephalin, vasoactive intestinal peptide, peptide histidine-isoleucine, calcitonin gene-related peptide and cholecystokinin immunoreactive terminals and cell bodies were analysed using indirect fluorescence immunohistochemistry. The visualization of immunoreactive cell bodies in the grafts was enhanced using a novel intraocular colchicine treatment. In the graft a rich network of somatostatin-positive terminals was found with a high density in well-demarcated areas reminiscent of substantia gelatinosa of the dorsal horn of normal spinal cord. A large number of small- to medium-sized somatostatin neurons was found throughout the grafts without colchicine treatment. This is in contrast to normal spinal cord, where positive neurons were difficult to visualize without colchicine and were mainly confined to the dorsal horn. Neuropeptide Y had a distribution in the grafts similar to that of somatostatin and neuropeptide Y cells were found throughout the grafts without colchicine treatment. In normal spinal cord, neuropeptide Y-positive fibers were found mainly in substantia gelatinosa with a sparse network in the ventral horn. Enkephalin-positive fibers were found throughout the grafts. The distribution of fibers resembled that of somatostatin and neuropeptide Y with distinct zones of high fiber density in well-demarcated areas, whereas the density of nerve fibers in the rest of the graft neuropil was moderate to low. The distribution of substance P was similar to that of enkephalin. After colchicine treatment, both enkephalin- and substance P-positive cell bodies were visualized. In the intact spinal cord both peptides were seen in the entire gray matter with the highest concentrations in the superficial laminae of the dorsal horn. Antisera against calcitonin gene related-peptide, revealed a sparse terminal network and many large cells, which might represent motoneurons. A sparse network of varicose cholecystokinin-immunoreactive fibers was found evenly distributed in the grafts. In normal spinal cord a dense cholecystokinin-positive network of primary sensory afferent origin was found in the dorsal horn. In the grafts cholecystokinin cell bodies were seen after colchicine treatment.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Retrograde tracing with a fluorescent dye (Fast Blue) combined with immunohistochemistry was used to determine if the putative neurotransmitters, serotonin and substance P, are present around posterior cricoarytenoid muscle motoneurons. Fast Blue was injected into the posterior cricoarytenoid muscle of the larynx. Following a 14-21 day survival time to allow for transport of the dye, the animals were perfusion fixed and the brainstem was removed for analysis under the fluorescence microscope. Retrogradely labeled cell bodies containing Fast Blue were found within the nucleus ambiguus from 0.5 to 3.0 mm rostral to obex. These motoneurons ranged in size from 23 to 38 micron. The same tissue sections containing labeled posterior cricoarytenoid muscle motoneurons were then used to determine the distribution of serotonin and substance P around these motoneurons using the indirect immunofluorescence technique. A dense network of serotonin-containing immunoreactive fibers was found around posterior cricoarytenoid muscle motoneurons. The fibers contained varicosities which were in close proximity, actually appearing to surround these motoneurons. Substance P immunoreactive fibers and varicosities were also found around posterior cricoarytenoid muscle motoneurons. The density and pattern of distribution of the substance P immunoreactivity was similar to that of the serotonin immunoreactivity. These results suggest that these putative neurotransmitters may be involved in influencing the activity of posterior cricoarytenoid muscle motoneurons. Serotonin and substance P are also present around other respiratory motoneurons such as phrenic motoneurons. Therefore, these two neurotransmitters may have a more general role in influencing respiratory motor outflow.
The dorsal portion of the nucleus submedius of the rat thalamus receives spinal and trigeminal projections which may convey noxious inputs. The present study was undertaken to analyse the fine structure of the nucleus with particular reference to a possible trigemino-thalamo-prefrontal cortical pathway relaying in nucleus submedius. Presynaptic terminals in the dorsal portion of the nucleus submedius were classified into three broad categories usually observed in thalamic nuclei: &quot;small round&quot;, &quot;flat&quot; and &quot;large round&quot; types. Axonal tracing using either anterograde transport of horseradish peroxidase or degeneration methods indicated that some &quot;small round&quot; terminals originate from the pre-frontal cortex. Some &quot;large round&quot; terminals were labelled from the trigeminal subnucleus caudalis. These &quot;large round&quot; terminals exhibited distinct morphological features when compared with trigeminal terminals in other thalamic nuclei. In particular they made synaptic contacts predominantly with dendritic protrusions and were surrounded by multilamellate astrocytic processes. Double-labelling experiments were performed by means of the combined retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase and Wallerian degradation techniques. Terminals degrading after lesion of the trigeminal subnucleus caudalis contacted submedius neurons labelled retrogradely from the prefrontal cortex. These observations demonstrate the existence of a direct monosynaptically relayed pathway from subnucleus caudalis to prefrontal cortex which relays in the dorsal part of nucleus submedius.
The authors report two patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage in whom carotid arteriography revealed aneurysms that had developed at previously normal locations and from infundibula during the years since initial angiography. Neither of these patients had congenital anomalies of the cerebral circulation and, apart from smoking in excess of 30 cigarettes a day, there were no common clinical features. The role of congenital and environmental factors in the formation of aneurysms and the enlargement of infundibula are reviewed.
In a conscious newborn piglet model, exogenous leukotriene D4 was found to be a potent pulmonary and systemic vasoconstrictor with significant left ventricular depressant effect. The pulmonary pressor effect was seen only in the arterioles and not the veins. In hypoxia the pulmonary response was less. The findings were similar to that in lambs. The role of leukotrienes in hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction and the foetal pulmonary circulation needs further elucidation.
The bulk biodistribution of a trifluorinated neuroleptic (fluphenazine) was studied using 19F magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Fifteen male Sprague-Dawley rats were injected with fluphenazine (120 mg/kg) and scanned in a G.E. CSI 2.0 tesla MRI system. The rats were killed following scanning and the brains were removed. The excised brains were then scanned using 1H and 19F MR techniques. The fluorinated neuroleptic was imaged at the injection site, spectroscopically detected in vivo in the head, and spectroscopically localized in the whole brain. These data suggest that in vivo 19F MRI of fluorinated agents is possible and could have clinical and research applications to the neurosciences.
The relationship of cognitive impairment to the course of schizophrenia remains uncertain. By studying psychotic adolescents, 90% of whom were hospitalized for the first time, we hoped to reduce the influence of such confounding variables as lengthy disease process, neuroleptic treatment, and institutionalization. 39 psychotic adolescent subjects who fulfilled DSM-III criteria for schizophrenia, schizophreniform psychosis, paranoid schizophrenia, or atypical psychosis were compared to 41 non-psychotic adolescent psychiatric controls. Subjects were administered the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-Revised, Peabody Individual Achievement tests of reading, reading comprehension, and mathematics, Bender-Gestalt, and Purdue Pegboard test within 3 weeks of admission to a psychiatric hospital. Performance IQ was significantly lower in the psychotic group (72 versus 93, P = 0.03). Thus, the IQ pattern in adolescent psychotic patients at an early stage in their illness was similar to the pattern displayed by chronic adult schizophrenic patients. Results were not consistent with theories of left hemisphere involvement in schizophrenia. Academic achievement was similar in both groups despite marked differences in performance IQ. Psychotropic medication had no significant impact on the results. In summary, deficits in processing novel material seem at the very least to be present at the onset of the psychotic disorder, though they may be non-progressive thereafter.

Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a debilitating X-linked muscle disease. We have used sequence information from complementary DNA clones, derived from the gene that is deleted in DMD patients, to generate an antiserum that stains the surface membrane of intact human and mouse skeletal muscle, but not that of DMD patients and mdx mice. Here we identify the protein reacting with this antiserum as a single component of relative molecular mass 210,000 (Mr = 210K) that fractionates with a low-ionic strength extract of intact human and mouse skeletal muscle. It is therefore distinct from the 400 K protein found in the heavy microsomal fraction of normal muscle and identified as a putative product of the DMD gene. We also analyse further the disease specificity of the antiserum. Positive staining is seen in normal controls, and in samples from patients with a wide range of muscular dystrophies other than DMD. Becker muscular dystrophy, which is allelically related to DMD, was the only other exception, and gave a sporadic staining pattern. The demonstration of a specific defect in the surface membrane of DMD muscle fibres substantiates the hypothesis that membrane lesions may initiate muscle degradation in DMD.
Cholecystokinin (CCK) receptor binding was measured in sections of human, monkey and rat spinal cord using autoradiographical techniques. In each species, high levels of specific 125I-Bolton-Hunter CCK binding were detected in the superficial layers of the dorsal horn (the substantia gelatinosa). In monkey and human but not rat spinal cord, 125I-CCK binding was dose-dependently inhibited by low concentrations of the selective CCK-A antagonist L-364,718. Binding of [3H]L-364,718, which was saturable (Bmax = 29.0 +/- 0.95 pmol/g wet wt.) and of high affinity (pKd) = 9.92 +/- 0.16) was also detected in sections of monkey spinal cord and had a similar localization to that of specific 125I-CCK binding. These data indicate that in striking contrast to CCK receptors in rat spinal cord, those in the primate cord are of the CCK-A receptor subclass.
Recent studies have shown regulation of central nervous system [Ca] after chronic hypo- and hypercalcemia. To investigate the mechanism of this regulation, 3-week-old rats were fed diets for 8 weeks that contained low or normal levels of Ca. Plasma [Ca] was 40% less in rats fed the low Ca diet than in animals fed normal diet. Unidirectional transfer coefficients for Ca (KCa) and Cl (KCl) into cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and brain were determined from the 10 min uptake of intravenously injected 45Ca and 36Cl in awake animals. KCa for CSF was 68% greater in low-Ca rats than in normal rats. Likewise, the values of KCa for brain regions with areas adjacent to the ventricles like the hippocampus and pons-medulla were 50% higher than in normal animals. On the other hand, KCas for parietal cortex, a brain region distant from the choroid plexus and not expected to be influenced by Ca entry into CSF, were similar between the groups. Comparison of the regional ratios of KCa/KCl revealed that a selective increase of Ca transport occurred into CSF and all brain regions except the parietal cortex in Ca-deficient rats. The results suggest that Ca homeostasis of CSF and brain [Ca] during chronic hypocalcemia is due to increased transfer of Ca from blood to brain, and that the regulation occurs via the CSF, possibly at the choroid plexus, but not via the cerebral capillaries.
Using autoradiography, 'peripheral type' or cholecystokinin-A (CCK-A) receptor binding was measured in the interpeduncular nucleus (IPN) of rats which had received electrolytic lesions of the habenular nucleus. Presynaptic GABAB receptor binding was also determined in the IPN in order to verify the loss of input to the nucleus. In animals which showed almost total loss of GABAB receptors. 125I-Bolton Hunter CCK binding in the IPN was reduced from 1.83 +/- 0.28 pmol/g wet weight to 0.87 +/- 0.16 pmol/g wet weight. This was not significantly different from non-specific levels, determined in the same region using 10(-7) M L-365,031 (0.97 +/- 0.14 pmol/g wet weight). These data suggest that CCK-A receptors in rat IPN are localized on presynaptic terminals within the nucleus.


The anatomic relationship between serotonergic (5-HT) axons and 5-HT2 receptors in the rat forebrain was determined by a combined analysis of transmitter immunocytochemistry and receptor autoradiography. High densities of 5-HT2 receptors, localized by the ligand N1-methyl-2-125I-LSD (125I-MIL), are found in neocortex and striatum; these regions also receive a dense serotonergic innervation. Regional variations in the density of 5-HT2 receptors and 5-HT axons correspond closely in most, but not all, areas of the forebrain. In somatosensory cortex (SI), the laminar distribution of 5-HT2 receptors closely matches that of 5-HT axons: in particular, a dense band of 5-HT2 receptors in layer Va of SI is in precise register with a dense plexus of fine 5-HT axons. We have also observed a close spatial relationship between 5-HT2 receptors and fine axons in other areas of the forebrain, suggesting that 5-HT2 receptors may be selectively linked to a particular type of 5-HT axon terminal. Since fine axons of this type have been reported to arise from the dorsal raphe nucleus, it appears likely that 5-HT2 receptors may mediate the effects of dorsal but not median raphe projections.
There are at least two classes of intracellular receptors for adrenocorticosteroid hormones in brain. Type I receptors have a high affinity for the naturally occurring gluco- and mineralocorticoids, corticosterone (CORT) and aldosterone (ALDO), respectively, and a very low affinity for synthetic glucocorticoids such as dexamethasone (DEX). type II receptors have a high affinity for the synthetic glucocorticoids, a lower affinity for CORT and a very low affinity for ALDO. In recent studies with mouse brain cytosol we have found a number of other biochemical differences between these two receptor types. In the present study, brain cytosol from adrenalectomized mice was prepared in HEPES buffer and subjected to various potentially inactivating treatments prior to assessment of Type I and Type II receptor specific binding capacity by incubation for 24 h at 0 degrees C with [3H]ALDO +/- [1H]RU 26988 (to prevent or permit the cross-binding of [3H]ALDO to Type II receptors) or [3H]DEX +/- [1H]Prorenone (to prevent or permit the cross-binding of [3H]DEX to Type I receptors), respectively. These studies revealed that 10-20% of the high-affinity (Kd = 3 nM) [3H]DEX specific binding capacity remained even after extensive, high concentration and repeated pretreatments with dextran-coated charcoal (DDC. to remove endogenous sulfhydryl-reducing reagents and other biochemicals). These procedures had little effect on Type I receptors. Further analyses revealed that DCC-resistant [3H]DEX binders were not Type I receptors since they were not saturated by [1H]Prorenone. These binders were also not inactivated by aging steroid-free cytosol at 0 degree C or by treating it with buffers containing 0.3 M KCl. Since these
Although objects in visual mental images may seem to appear all of a piece, when the time to form images is measured this introspection is revealed to be incorrect; objects in images are constructed a part at a time. Studies with split-brain patients and normal subjects reveal that two classes of processes are used to form images--ones that activate stored memories of the appearances of parts and ones that arrange parts into the proper configuration. Some of the processes used to arrange parts are more effective in the left cerebral hemisphere and some are more effective in the right cerebral hemisphere; the notion that mental images are the product of right hemisphere activity is an oversimplification.
Recent investigations have shown that the heart atrium is an endocrine tissue. In the present studies, high levels of peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM), which catalyzes the formation of bioactive alpha-amidated peptides from their glycine-extended precursors, have been found in particulate fractions from bovine and rat heart atrium; only low levels of PAM activity were present in soluble fractions. Corresponding fractions from the ventricles contained 20-fold less activity. Immunocytochemical studies demonstrated that PAM was localized primarily to atrial cardiocytes, with a distribution resembling that of atriopeptin. Following differential centrifugation of rat atrial homogenates, most of the PAM activity was associated with crude granule fractions, with lesser amounts of activity associated with crude microsomal fractions. Upon further subcellular fractionation, PAM activity in the rat atrium was found primarily with immunoactive atriopeptin in fractions enriched in secretory granules. Following sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, antisera to purified bovine pituitary PAM identified a 113,000-dalton protein in bovine atrial microsomes and secretory granules; the protein predicted from the sequence of the cDNA encoding bovine pituitary PAM is of similar size (Eipper, B. A., Park, L. P., Dickerson, I. M., Keutmann, H. T., Thiele, E. A., Rodriguez, H., Schofield, P. R., and Mains, R. E. (1987) Mol. Endocrinol. 1, 777-790). Northern blot analysis using cDNA probes encoding bovine pituitary PAM demonstrated higher levels of PAM mRNA in heart atrium than in anterior pituitary. Rat heart contains PAM mRNA species of 3.6 and 3.8 kilobases, the smaller mRNA species corresponding in size to the PAM mRNA expressed in rat anterior pituitary.
Tetanic stimulation of the basal dendritic field (stratum oriens) of Ca1 area of rat hippocampal slice can produce a slow depolarization associated with an increase in input resistance, decrease in accommodating properties of the cell to a depolarizing drive and an increase in synaptic activity. These effects are enhanced by an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, eserine, and blocked by the muscarinic antagonists, pirenzepine and atropine. The accommodating property of the cell is more sensitive to the stimulation than the membrane potential or input resistance. The effects of oriens stimulation can be obtained also in fornix-fimbria transected hippocampal slice indicating that it may activate a local cholinergic or non-cholinergic pathway. The stimulation causes a heterosynaptic enhancement of reactivity of neurons to afferent stimulation indicating that acetylcholine may cause an enhanced excitability of hippocampal neurons.
Protein kinase C (PK-C) levels were determined using [3H]phorbol-12,13-dibutyrate (PDB) binding and the in vitro phosphorylation of histone H I (III-S), in autopsied human frontal cortex of age- and postmortem time-matched normal and Alzheimer patients. PK-C levels in Alzheimer particulate fractions determined by both methods were about 50% of those in controls. PK-C levels in Alzheimer cytosol fractions were not significantly different from those in controls. In a parallel study, we measured the phosphorylation of a Mr 86,000 protein (P86), the major protein kinase C substrate in the cytosol fraction prepared from Alzheimer frontal cortex, and found it to be reduced to 43% of that in control brains. This reduction in P86 protein phosphorylation compared to controls was not detected in brain samples prepared from demented patients without Alzheimer's disease. We considered 3 extraneous factors (postmortem delay, age and sex) which may have affected the extent of P86 phosphorylation and concluded that the reduced P86 phosphorylation in the Alzheimer samples is not due to any of them. Reduced PK-C levels and Mr 86,000 protein phosphorylation may reflect a biochemical deficit related specifically to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease.
Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) caused a concentration-dependent increase in dopamine (DA) synthesis measured in rat striatal synaptosomes. The concentrations of CRF producing half-maximal and maximal stimulation were 40 and 300 nM, respectively. The maximal effect corresponded to a 34% increase from the control level of DA synthesis. CRF 1 microM increased DA synthesis in synaptosomes of mouse striatum by 48%. Pretreatment of striatal synaptosomes with CRF produced a persistent activation of tyrosine hydroxylase assayed in extracts of lysed synaptosomes. These results suggest that CRF may play a modulatory role in striatal DA synthesis by acting on receptors located on DA terminals.
The effect of GABA agonists and antagonists on K+-stimulated [3H]GABA release was studied to assess how presynaptic GABA receptors modulate GABA release. The release was affected in a quite different manner in the pars compacta and in the pars reticulata. Muscimol markedly inhibited the release from the pars compacta but had no effect on the release from the pars reticulata. Baclofen inhibited the release from the pars reticulata without affecting the release from the pars compacta. Bicuculline itself facilitated the release from the pars compacta but inhibited the release from the pars reticulata. Picrotoxin facilitated the release from the pars compacta and had no effect in the pars reticulata. The results suggest that the release of GABA from GABAergic terminals in the substantia nigra of the rat brain is modulated by GABAA autoreceptors in the pars compacta and by GABAB receptors in the pars reticulata.
Morphogenesis of photoreceptor outer segment disks appears to occur by an evagination of the ciliary plasma membrane (Steinberg et al., J Comp Neurol 190:501-519, '80). We tested if polymerized actin (F-actin) was necessary for the regulation of this postulated process by incubating Xenopus eyecups with 5 or 25 microM cytochalasin D for 6-28 hours. During the second hour, the incubation medium contained 3H-leucine. Both concentrations of cytochalasin resulted in: 1) dissolution of the rhodamine-phalloidin labeling pattern of photoreceptors, and 2) collapse of the calycal processes (which are normally filled with actin filaments) and disappearance of the inner segment microfilaments. In addition, the few most basal rod and cone outer segment disks appeared several times their normal diameter. These oversized disks had incorporated 3H-leucine and extended along the margin of the outer or inner segment. The nature of the overgrown disks is consistent only with a morphogenetic process involving evaginations of the ciliary plasma membrane. Deregulation by cytochalasin D was manifest by excessive growth of a few nascent disks rather than normal growth of many. Therefore, the normal network of actin filaments is apparently not necessary for continued evagination of the membrane, but it does seem to be an essential part of the mechanism that initiates the evagination of the ciliary plasma membrane and/or the mechanism that controls how far nascent disks grow.
Physiological studies suggest that the function of the visual cortical gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) system is abnormal in cats reared in total darkness. The present study asked whether visual input is necessary for the normal postnatal anatomical development of the GABA system by comparing GABA neurons and receptors in the visual cortex of normal and dark-reared cats. Immunohistochemical techniques (anti-GABA) were used to localize GABA neurons. In both rearing conditions, GABA neurons were stained rather uniformly in all cortical layers. Counts of GABA cells indicated a marked increase in density in dark-reared compared to normal cats. Counts of total cellular density in cresyl-stained sections, however, indicated a comparable increase in dark-reared cats. When corrected for total cellular density, there were no differences between dark-reared and normal cats in the density of GABA cells per layer, or the relative proportion of GABA cells across cortical layers. In vitro receptor binding of 3H-muscimol was used to compare GABAA receptors in the two rearing conditions. When corrected for total cellular density, saturation kinetics indicated no difference in the total number or affinity of receptors. Similarly, autoradiographic histology indicated no difference in the laminar distribution of receptors across cortical layers between dark-reared and normal cats. These results indicate that the postnatal development of GABA neurons and receptors occurs normally in the absence of visual input.
A population of large (A beta) afferents is known to have endings in the wall of the femoral-saphenous vein. These afferents project to the lower lumbar spinal cord. The purpose of the present study was to identify, localize, and characterize spinal neurons that receive inputs from such afferents. Responses of 50 neurons in the L6 spinal cord segment of decerebrate-spinal cats or intact cats anesthetized using alpha-chloralose were recorded following electrical stimulation of these afferents. Observations were also made on the convergence of muscle and cutaneous afferent inputs onto neurons driven by stimulation of afferents terminating in the femoral-saphenous vein. All recording sites were marked either by intracellularly staining the element characterized with HRP or by extracellularly iontophoresing a small quantity of this tracer. The cells were driven for long durations (mean of 51.5 ms, S.E.M. of 10.0) by single-shock stimulation of femoral-saphenous venous afferents. The recording sites were located in Rexed's laminae IV-VIII and X. Eight of the 50 neurons were activated by venous afferent stimulation at latencies equal to or shorter than that of the first negative wave of the cord dorsum potential; these units were driven at a mean latency of 1.4 ms (S.E.M. of 0.25) following the arrival of the afferent volley at the cord and were assumed to receive monosynaptic, or at least relatively direct, inputs from the primary afferents. Most of these cells (6 of 8) were located in lamina V. The majority of the neurons studied (37 of 50) were activated at latencies longer than 3 ms following the arrival of the afferent volley at the cord; about half (19 of 37) of those activated at longer latencies were located in lamina VII, and the rest were scattered among the other laminae. Twenty-eight of 40 venous afferent-driven cells tested could also be activated by electrical stimulation of either the posterior tibial or sural nerve. In general, the stimulation intensities necessary to activate the neurons were only sufficient to excite large (A alpha or A beta) muscle and cutaneous afferents. Neurons receiving the shortest latency inputs from the femoral-saphenous vein were less likely to receive convergent inputs from muscle or skin than were neurons activated by venous afferents at longer latency.
The rearrangement of the terminations of intra-amygdaloid fibers was examined in the medial amygdaloid nucleus (MAN) following denervation of the fibers from the accessory olfactory bulb (AOB) of adult rat using immunohistochemistry of anterogradely transported lectin (Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin, PHA-L). The AOB was removed unilaterally by suction at two months before the PHA-L injection. The PHA-L was injected bilaterally into the posteromedial region of the amygdala (posteromedial amygdaloid nucleus and amygdala-hippocampal transitional area). After the tissue was processed by the routine immunohistochemical method, the immunologically labeled axons and axon terminals in the MAN were observed with the light microscope. On the control side, labeled axons were observed in the cellular part of the MAN, but they were not found in the molecular layer in which the fibers from the accessory olfactory bulb terminate. On the side of the AOB removal, the labeled axons were found not only in the cellular part but also in the molecular layer. Electron microscopic observations showed that the labeled axon terminals made synaptic contacts in the molecular layer. These results indicate that terminals of intra-amygdaloid fibers expand from the cellular part to the molecular layer in the MAN and make synaptic contacts in this layer following the denervation of the AOB fibers.
Membrane-associated peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM) activity was investigated in rat anterior and neurointermediate pituitary tissues and in pituitary AtT-20/D-16v and GH3 cell lines. A substantial fraction of total pituitary PAM activity was found to be membrane-associated. Triton X-100, N-octyl-beta-D-glucopyranoside, and Zwittergent were effective in solubilizing PAM activity from crude pituitary membranes. The distribution of enzyme activity between soluble and membrane-associated forms was tissue-specific. In the anterior pituitary lobe and pituitary cell lines, 40-60% of total PAM activity was membrane-associated while only 10% of the alpha-amidating activity in the neurointermediate lobe was membrane-associated. Soluble and membrane-associated forms of PAM shared nearly identical characteristics with respect to copper and ascorbate requirements, pH optima, and Km values. Upon subcellular fractionation of anterior and neurointermediate pituitary lobe homogenates on Percoll gradients, 12-18% of total PAM activity was found in the rough endoplasmic reticulum/Golgi fractions and 42-60% was localized to secretory granule fractions. For both tissues, membrane-associated PAM activity was enriched in the rough endoplasmic reticulum/Golgi pool, whereas most of the secretory granule-associated enzyme activity was soluble.
A cDNA clone encoding the full coding region of chicken liver arylamine acetyltransferase (EC 2.3.1.5) was isolated from lambda gt10 cDNA library by screening with the 32P-labeled oligonucleotide deduced from the amino acid sequence reported in the preceding paper. The complete nucleotide sequence of the cDNA was determined, from which the amino acid sequence of N-acetyltransferase was deduced. It consisted of 1,302 nucleotides including a 861-nucleotide region coding for 287 amino acids with a molecular weight of 32,914. Two methods were applied to confirm that the cDNA encoded arylamine N-acetyltransferase. First, mRNA was synthesized in vitro by Bluescript and subsequently translated in vitro. The molecular mass of the translation product was 34 kDa consistent with that of the enzyme purified from the chicken liver. The translated protein was immunoprecipitated by a monoclonal antibody to N-acetyltransferase. Second, the cDNA was inserted into an expression vector pcDL1 and introduced into Chinese hamster ovary cells. The supernatant of the homogenate of transfected cells showed a high level of N-acetyltransferase activity with a substrate specificity comparable to that of the liver enzyme. Northern blot analysis revealed three mRNAs corresponding to 4.7, 2.0, and 1.4 kilobases. The levels of N-acetyltransferase mRNAs were relatively high in the liver and distributed in various tissues. Genomic Southern blot analysis indicated the presence of only one gene in the chicken haploid genome.
Five monoclonal antibodies against arylamine acetyltransferase (EC 2.3.1.5) from the chicken liver were established by immunizing a mouse with a partially purified enzyme preparation. None of the antibodies cross-reacted with arylamine N-acetyltransferase from the livers of cow, rabbit, and rat, nor with arylalkylamine N-acetyltransferase from the chicken pineal gland, indicating a high specificity of the antibodies. By using the antibodies, two immunoaffinity purification procedures were elaborated: A partially purified enzyme preparation was incubated with the monoclonal antibody, and the resulting enzyme-IgG complex was separated by a protein A-Sepharose column. Sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis revealed a single protein band with a molecular mass of 34 kDa in addition to the heavy and light chains of IgG. Secondly, an immunoaffinity column was prepared by immobilizing a monoclonal antibody to Sepharose 4B. After a partially purified enzyme preparation was absorbed on the column, N-acetyltransferase activity was eluted with 1 M NaCl and 1 M urea. The eluted sample contained a single 34-kDa protein. The purified enzyme preferred arylamines to arylalkylamines as substrates, indicating that it was arylamine N-acetyltransferase. The purified protein was subjected to digestion by lysylendopeptidase and separated by high performance liquid chromatography. Partial amino acid sequences of three peptides were determined by a gas-phase sequence analyzer.
To determine whether a low pH intracellular &quot;sorting&quot; step is required to route peptides into secretory granules, the effects of pH altering drugs on the biosynthesis and secretion of peptides by AtT-20 mouse corticotrope tumor cells and rat intermediate pituitary cells were examined. Doses of each drug maintaining normal protein synthesis and cell morphology, while obliterating the intracellular pH gradients detected by acridine orange fluorescence, were experimentally determined. Regions of the cell rich in secretory granules were localized by immunocytochemistry and were found to coincide with organelles with a low internal pH. Biosynthetic labeling experiments were coupled with immunoprecipitation and sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel analyses to examine the biosynthesis and secretion of corticotropin (ACTH(1-39], alpha-melanotropin, ACTH(18-39), beta-endorphin, gamma-melanotropin, alpha-amidated joining peptide, and the NH2-terminal region of pro-ACTH/endorphin. Chloroquine (20-40 microM) and a mixture of NH4Cl and methylamine (2-5 mM each) dissipated pH gradients but had no effect on the synthetic rate of pro-ACTH/endorphin, the extent and rate of precursor processing to smaller peptides, the rate of basal secretion of the various peptides, or the extent to which secretion of each of the peptides could be stimulated by secretagogues. Monensin (0.1-1 microM) had no discernible effect on intracellular pH gradients yet totally blocked proteolytic processing of pro-ACTH/endorphin. Thus, a monensin-blockable step occurs in peptide processing, presumably in the trans Golgi region; however, a low pH chloroquine-sensitive sorting step is not required for processing or for routing peptides to a stable storage form which can be released in response to secretagogues.

With a computerized image-analysis apparatus for neocortical morphometry and chemical methods for evaluation of the cholinergic system, five brain specimens of Pick's disease (PD) were studied and the results compared to those from specimens of age-matched normal subjects and Alzheimer's disease (AD). The PD specimens showed major reductions in brain weight, frontal and temporal cortical thickness, and large neuron populations, compared with controls. Lesser reductions were seen in small neurons and thickness of the inferior parietal cortex. The authors found no relationship between age of onset or disease duration and either the degree of cortical thinning or neuron loss or the number of Pick bodies in the neocortex and hippocampus. PD specimens were more atrophic than AD brains, having lower brain weights and more fronto-temporal thinning. Large neurons were comparably reduced in the two conditions in the frontal and temporal lobes, but small neuron losses were greater in the PD midfrontal area. Only the AD cases showed loss of large neurons in the inferior parietal region. Levels of choline acetyltransferase were normal in PD and reduced in AD, whereas muscarinic receptor binding was decreased in both.
Electrical responses evoked by perivascular nerve stimulation were recorded from rat small intrapulmonary artery with the microelectrode technique. Nerve stimulation with a single pulse produced an excitatory junction potential that was insensitive to phentolamine, propranolol, atropine, ketanserin, mepyramine, and guanethidine but was abolished by tetrodotoxin. Treatment with reserpine in vivo or with 6-hydroxydopamine in vitro had no significant effect on the amplitude of the junction potentials. In the mesenteric arteries from the same rats, these procedures led to the inhibition of the junction potentials, confirming adequate functional sympathectomy. Low concentrations of alpha, beta-methylene ATP attenuated the amplitude of the excitatory junction potential without changing the membrane potential. The membrane depolarization induced by norepinephrine or serotonin were not. It is concluded that the excitatory junction potential in rat pulmonary artery results from the release of a nonadrenergic, noncholinergic neurotransmitter from perivascular nerves that are not sympathetic and that the most likely transmitter is ATP. Such neurotransmission may play a role in the regulation of regional pulmonary blood flow.
Twenty-four patients with schizophrenia and 14 normal control subjects underwent magnetic resonance imaging scans using a 0.5-tesla scanner and 600-ms inversion recovery technique. A midsagittal section and twelve 1-cm coronal sections beginning at the frontal pole were obtained, and linear, area, and signal intensity measurements were made on nine brain regions. Volume estimates were made by summing consecutive sections for four of the following regions: the precallosal frontal lobes, temporal lobes, lateral ventricles, amygdala-hippocampal complexes, and cerebral hemispheres. The area of the third ventricle in its most anterior coronal slice was increased by 73% in schizophrenic subjects (0.83 +/- 0.08 cm2) in comparison with controls (0.48 +/- 0.04 cm2). Lateral ventricular volume was increased by 62% in schizophrenic subjects (24.7 +/- 2.6 mL) in comparison with controls (15.2 +/- 1.4 mL). The lateral ventricular enlargement in schizophrenic subjects was more pronounced posteriorly than anteriorly, especially at the level of the anterior thalamus and the colliculi. There were no other significant differences between schizophrenic and control groups in any other spatial or signal intensity measures. There was no brain region the size of which correlated with ventricular size. These data corroborate third and lateral ventriculomegaly in schizophrenia using magnetic resonance imaging but fail to further localize the structural abnormality.
This study examines whether the duration of treatment with antipsychotic drugs influences the regional distribution of cerebral [18F]2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose utilization as measured by positron emission tomography. Two groups of schizophrenic patients are compared with normal volunteers (n = 10). One group (n = 5) consisted of patients treated for one year, and the second (n = 12) of patients medicated for four to 14 years (mean +/- SD duration, 7.4 +/- 3.4 years). The first group was also examined before patients received their first dose ever of antipsychotic medication. One year of medication was not sufficient to alter the schizophrenic profile of cerebral cortical glucose activity but did elevate activity of the corpus striatum. Medication for 7.4 years also did not alter the schizophrenic pattern of frontal hyperactivity and posterior hypoactivity, although deviations from control values appeared less marked than after one year. On the other hand, in patients medicated for 7.4 years, there was perhaps an even greater increase in the activity of the corpus striatum and of the thalamus. Thus, duration of exposure to antipsychotic medication may affect the pattern of cerebral glucose activity; possibly, even longer exposure may contribute to the hypofrontality noted by others, although this can be confounded with the duration of illness as a factor. In considering the biological significance of the observed profile of cortical glucose activity, we introduce the concept of cerebral metabolic tone. We suggest that a disturbance of this tonus may account for some symptoms of schizophrenia and could be consistent with the hypothesis of abnormal developmental changes in the brains of schizophrenics.

The visual field of dark-reared cats was behaviourally measured after several years of recovery in a normal environment. A reduction of the visual field was observed and affected the contralateral field as well as the ipsilateral field when tested in monocular viewing. The longer the deprivation period, the more reduced was the visual field. Our results suggest that binocular deprivation might have stabilized the visual system in an immature state.
The findings of this study indicate distinctive roles of different regions of the rostral striatum of rat in segmental motor control. In order to test the hypothesis of somatotopically organized motoric functions in the striatum, the effects of bilateral ibotenate-induced lesions of either the dorsomedial or the dorsolateral or the ventrolateral regions of the rostral striatum on reaching movements of the tongue and the forelimbs were examined. Lesions of the dorsolateral region chronically impaired reaching movements of the forelimbs but not of the tongue. Lesions of the ventrolateral region impaired initiation and execution of reaching movements of both the tongue and the forelimbs, with the impairment of forelimb reaching being somewhat less severe than that produced by dorsolateral lesions. Neuronal loss in the medial striatum had no chronic effects on either movements. The impairments of reaching performance reflected failures of motor synergisms between tongue and head and between limb and paw, as well as alterations in the scaling of movement amplitude. These findings support the hypothesis of a motor somatotopy in the lateral region of the rat's rostral striatum and of a critical role of the lateral striatum in initiation, scaling, and coordination of reaching movements.
Chemical and morphological changes in cholinergic marker enzymes, acetylcholinesterase (AChE), and choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) of striatum, hippocampus, and cerebral cortex were studied following haloperidol treatment of rats. After short-term (7-21 days) haloperidol treatment, the levels of both enzymes (AChE and ChAT) were increased in striatum and hippocampus (greater than 25%), but not in cortex. After long-term (+40 days) haloperidol treatment, the level of AChE activity returned to control levels in all brain areas, whereas the levels of striatal and hippocampal ChAT decreased by 26% and 29%, respectively. No change in levels of both enzymes was detected after acute treatment (single dose) of haloperidol or chronic treatment with either clozapine or imipramine. Morphological analysis of cholinergic neurons and their processes using monoclonal antibody to ChAT showed two types of changes following 40 days of haloperidol treatment. First, parallel to the observed decrease in the levels of ChAT activity there was a visual decrease in the immunoreactivity in neurons as well as in their processes in striatum and hippocampus. Second, there was an apparent reduction in the size and number of stained neurons and their processes. No changes were seen in immunoreactivity after an acute treatment with haloperidol. These results indicate that the chronic haloperidol treatment in rats causes changes in central cholinergic systems that may be relevant to the pathophysiology of schizophrenia and its treatment.

Some years ago, we proposed, along with others, that the isomorphism between models of information processing by stages and the organization of neural pathways connecting functionally specialized neuronal networks was a guideline for conducting experiments in which the integration of methods and concepts of cognitive psychology and of neurophysiology was a promising approach to increase our knowledge of the processes responsible for motor control. At a time when models of serially organized information processing stages are being increasingly challenged, the deciphering of the underlying brain processes increasingly suggests that current views about the linkage between neural structures and behavioural functions must be reconsidered. First, at the &quot;molar&quot; level, the notion of a functional specialization of neuronal networks as, for example, being &quot;sensory&quot;, &quot;sensorimotor&quot; or &quot;motor&quot;, has to be viewed as a quantitative and not as a qualitative concept. Second, at the &quot;molecular&quot; level, the notion of a clear-cut functional differentiation between neuronal units, or between small sets of neurons, must similarly be revised: a neuron may be more or less &quot;sensory&quot; or &quot;motor&quot; and, moreover, may share both these functional properties to varying degrees. When the brain processes responsible for movement control are reconsidered in the light of these two concepts--that is a functional heterogeneity of structurally defined neuronal networks, as well as a continuum in functional specification of isolated neuronal units--data collected by using single-cell recording of neuronal activity fit well into the model of a continuous flow of information processing: neural pathways from the cortical parietal association areas to the corticospinal apparatus appear as a privileged sensorimotor information stream along which the amount of neuronal activity responsible for movement planning progressively decreases, while the amount of neuronal activity involved in movement execution progressively increases.
In recent years the range of investigations performed in the EEG laboratory has expanded, greatly extending the scope well beyond conventional ink-on-paper tracings. Although these still form the bulk of the output, both their value and that of the newer techniques available are discussed.
1. The binding of the 125I-Bolton Hunter (BH) conjugates of neurokinin A and eledoisin to synaptic plasma membranes prepared from rat cerebral cortex was investigated. 2. Saturation analyses indicated that both radioligands labelled a similar number of binding sites, but [125I]BH-eledoisin had a 7 fold higher affinity than [125I]BH-neurokinin A. 3. An identical pharmacological profile was apparent for both radioligands and tachykinin peptides inhibited the binding in the order: neurokinin B greater than BH-eledoisin greater than kassinin greater than L-363,851, eledoisin greater than substance P, neurokinin A greater than physalaemin greater than DiMeC7 greater than substance P methylester, indicating a profile consistent with the NK3-subtype of tachykinin receptors. 4. The binding of [125I]BH-neurokinin A and [125I]BH-eledoisin was equally sensitive to inhibition by the guanosine triphosphate (GTP) analogue, guanyly-5'-(beta-gamma-imido) diphosphate. 5. These results indicate that [125I]BH-neurokinin A and [125I]BH-eledoisin appear to label a common site in rat cerebral cortex synaptic plasma membranes with the characteristics of an NK3-receptor, and thus [125I]BH-neurokinin A is not a selective radioligand for the NK2-receptor.
The behavioural effects of the selective NK-3 tachykinin receptor agonist senktide were studied following intracisternal and subcutaneous administration in rodents. Behavioural manifestations of 5-hydroxytryptaminergic stimulation, including head twitches (mice), wet dog shakes (rats), forepaw treading, flat body posture, hindlimb splaying and Straub tail, were seen following the intracisternal (0.01-1.2 nmol) or subcutaneous (0.1-2.4 mumol kg-1) administration of senktide in both species. We conclude that stimulation of NK-3 receptors stimulates 5-hydroxytryptaminergic pathways in rodent brain, and that senktide may cross the blood-brain barrier in biologically significant amounts.
Earlier, we reported that true hallucinations may present as a conversion symptom. We here reiterate this and suggest that cultural sanction may be one factor that can lead to hallucinations being classified as true in non-psychotic psychiatric states.
The ability of 5 commissurotomized patients to appreciate semantic anomalies presented to their right and left hemispheres was tested using both electrophysiological and behavioural measures. In all cases, the patients heard sentence fragments that were completed either by semantically congruous or incongruous words briefly flashed to the left visual field, right visual field or to both fields simultaneously. A dissociation between behavioural and event-related brain potential (ERP) measures was observed. All 5 patients were able to indicate by a pointing response with greater than chance accuracy whether the terminal word of a sentence made sense (i.e., appropriate for the context) or was nonsensical. This was true regardless of the hemisphere receiving the terminal word. Likewise, all the patients responded to right visual field anomalies with a cerebral potential (N400) that was typically elicited by such words in control subjects. In contrast, only those 2 patients who developed an overt speech capability under the control of the right hemisphere produced N400 waves in response to left visual field anomalies. These findings were interpreted as suggesting possible relationships within language generation and semantic priming.
The effects of hypophysectomy (HPX) and dexamethasone (DEX) on the levels of Met5-enkephalin (ME), ME precursors, and the abundance of proenkephalin (pEK) mRNA, were examined in the adrenal medulla (AM) and superior cervical ganglia (SCG). To assess possible changes in enkephalin processing, both cryptic (after trypsin and carboxypeptidase B digestions) and native (without enzyme digestions) ME-like immunoreactivity (ME-LI) was measured. Three weeks after HPX the proportion of pEK mRNA to the total RNA content in the AM was not significantly changed when compared to sham-operated (SO) animals. Total (native + cryptic) ME-LI was decreased by 45% in the AM of HPX rats. This decrease was paralleled by a 58% depletion of AM proteins. Cryptic ME-LI was also reduced by 43%. In contrast, native ME-LI was not altered after HPX, indicating enhanced processing of ME precursors. Treatment with DEX (5 daily injections--1 mg/kg, i.p.) increased the relative abundance of pEK mRNA (+27%) and total ME-LI in the AM of HPX group, but not in SO group. Native ME-LI, cryptic ME-LI, and their ratio were not significantly affected by DEX in the AM of HPX or SO rats. In SCG, the relative abundance of pEK mRNA decreased by 25% after hypophysectomy. Total and cryptic ME-LI in the SCG of HPX rats were not changed when compared to SO rats. In contrast, HPX reduced native ME-LI suggesting decreased processing of ME precursors. Similarly, as in AM, DEX produced increase in the SCG pEK mRNA only in HPX (+68%) and not in the SO rats. In SCG, DEX produced decreases in total ME-LI which could be attributed to an increased enkephalin release. An overall reduction of cryptic ME-LI was also observed after DEX, whereas native ME-LI remained unchanged suggesting increased processing of enkephalins. Our findings indicate that the pituitary adrenocortical axis controls the relative proportions of ME to its precursors, and that this control involves both glucocorticoid-dependent (SCG) and glucocorticoid-independent (AM) mechanisms. In contrast, our studies do not suggest specific control of pEK synthesis by the pituitary adrenocortical axis. The pituitary adrenocortical axis may also influence the relative contents of ME and catecholamines in the AM and SCG. The ratio of ME/catecholamines increased after HPX (AM and SCG) and after DEX (SCG). Such regulation may contribute to the control of co-transmitter output in the sympathoadrenal system.
The regional and cellular distribution of the proto-oncogene product pp60c-src, a member of the family of membrane-associated tyrosine-specific protein kinases, was analysed in adult rat brain. High-resolution SDS-PAGE allowed analysis of both the 'fibroblast' 60-kDa form and a variant, 61-kDa neuron-specific form of the c-src gene product which is encoded by an alternately processed c-src mRNA. Studies of microdissected brain regions showed that all CNS regions contained both forms of the enzyme, the 61-kDa form predominating in most regions with high content of gray matter and high density of synapses. Lesion-induced degenerations of specific neuronal elements in the basal ganglia decreased the level of both forms of the c-src gene product both in regions where cell bodies had been lesioned and in regions where nerve terminals had degenerated. The 61-kDa form of the enzyme appeared somewhat more sensitive to the effects caused by these lesions than the 60-kDa form. These results indicate that, within the mature mammalian brain, both cell body regions and nerve terminals of many, and possibly all, nerve cells contain both forms of the c-src gene product, the 61-kDa form being most highly enriched in the nerve cells. These results suggest that the enzyme may be involved in pleiotropic functions, including signal transduction in nerve terminals.
Immunohistochemical techniques and antibodies to gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), parvalbumin, and cyclic guanosine monophosphate-dependent protein kinase were used to identify populations of cerebellar neurons in culture that exhibit morphological features and immunoreactivity characteristic of neuronal types present in the cortical region of the cerebellum in vivo. The cultures were examined at 3 culture ages: 6-9, 12-15 and greater than 15 days in vitro, reflecting early, intermediate and late periods in cerebellar development. Neurons identified as Purkinje neurons (PNs), granule cells or inhibitory interneurons (stellate, basket, Golgi and Lugaro cells) were present at all culture ages. The granule cells (GCs) and inhibitory interneurons (INs) were morphologically well developed at the youngest culture age studied; morphological features did not change dramatically during the culture period. In contrast, the PNs were morphologically immature at 6-9 DIV (DIV = days in vitro) and exhibited dramatic changes in morphological structure with culture age. Extracellular recordings from PNs. GCs and INs in living cultures revealed that all classes of neurons exhibited spontaneous activity, but that only a portion of the GCs and INs were spontaneously active. The spontaneously active GCs and INs exhibited variable patterns of activity and low firing rates (approximately 2-6 Hz) at all culture ages studied. At 6 DIV, PNs exhibited firing rates and patterns similar to that of the interneurons. At older culture ages, the firing rate and pattern of PNs was significantly different from the GCs and INs and was characterized by high frequency (greater than 10 Hz) spike activity usually in a regular pattern. All cerebellar neurons by excited by the transmitter glutamate (Glu). The Glu response in the GCs and INs consisted of a brief burst of single spikes; in PNs, the response to Glu was prolonged and multiphasic. These data indicate that the cerebellar GCs and INs express morphological, physiological and developmental properties that are significantly different from the PN.
The pituitary-adrenocortical axis plays a complex role in the regulation of the levels of enzymes of the catecholamine biosynthetic pathway. In this report we have explored molecular mechanisms of these regulations, by examining the effects of hypophysectomy (HPX) and dexamethasone (DEX) on tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PNMT) mRNA levels in the adrenal medulla (AM) and superior cervical ganglia (SCG). Three weeks after hypophysectomy weights (-48%), total RNA (-49%), and DNA (-22%) contents in AM were significantly reduced, when compared to sham-operated animals (SO). In SCG decreases in weight (-23%) and in the ratio of RNA/DNA (-25%) were also found. TH mRNA contents paralleled decreases in total RNA levels and no significant change in the relative abundance of TH mRNA was found. When HPX rats were injected for 5 days with DEX (1 mg/kg, i.p.), TH mRNA levels in the SCG (+51%) and in the AM (+74%) were significantly increased when compared to saline-treated HPX animals. DEX given to SO rats increased TH mRNA in SCG (+49%); a 27% increase in TH mRNA in the AM was also observed. The relative abundance of PNMT mRNA in the AM was reduced after hypophysectomy (-64%). This decrease was completely reversed by DEX. In contrast, DEX did not affect PNMT mRNA levels in the AM of SO rats. PNMT mRNA was not detected in SCG of saline- or DEX-treated rats. In conclusion, our findings suggest that the pituitary-adrenocortical axis is involved in the regulation of the steady-state levels of TH and PNMT mRNAs. This regulation involves: (1) induction of TH mRNA contents in AM and SCG by increased plasma glucocorticoid levels; and (2) maintenance of the steady-state levels of PNMT mRNA in AM by glucocorticoid-dependent mechanisms.
Chronic administration of morphine to pre- and postnatal rats produced a marked decrease in brain mu-opioid receptor density with-out change in receptor affinity. No significant changes in delta- or kappa-receptors were observed. This downregulation was accompanied by tolerance to the analgesic actions of morphine. In neonates exposed to morphine from postnatal day one, mu-receptor number was significantly depressed until postnatal day 8, then increased gradually to control levels by day 14 of treatment. Longer treatment produced no further change in opioid receptors. These data represent the first demonstration of in vivo downregulation of brain mu-opioid receptors following morphine administration and provide evidence for a unique plasticity of the immature opioid receptor system.
Multiple unit activities (MUA) in 307 brainstem sites were recorded by chronically implanted electrodes in cats, using a polygraph with 4 channel MUA recording units. During transition from waking to slow wave sleep, at 15 sites including the medial preoptic area (11), the diagonal band of Broca (2) and medial anterior hypothalamic area (2), consistently earlier increase of MUA in discharge rate was observed, while MUA in other areas decreased. Also, at 13 sites in these areas, a decrease in discharge rate was demonstrated during paradoxical sleep. These findings suggest a close relationship between the preoptic area and sleep mechanisms, supporting a notion that an active site for induction of slow wave sleep may reside in the preoptic area.

In vivo extracellular recordings from rat supraoptic and paraventricular magnocellular neurosecretory cells (MNCs) indicate that putative vasopressin-secreting MNCs may be identified by an abrupt and brief cessation in firing consequent to a transient drug-induced rise in arterial pressure sufficient to activate arterial baroreceptors. In the diagonal band of Broca (DBB), a population of neurons projecting towards the supraoptic nucleus are activated during this drug-induced hypertension. Electrical stimulation in DBB selectively depresses supraoptic vasopressin-secreting MNCs. Intracellular recordings in perfused hypothalamic explants confirm a DBB-evoked bicuculline-sensitive and chloride-dependent postsynaptic inhibition, similar to that associated with the application of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) in approximately half of supraoptic MNCs. Since bicuculline also selectively blocks baroreceptor-induced inhibition in supraoptic MNCs, it is proposed that the depressant baroreflex input to vasopressin-secreting MNCs involves a population of DBB neurons and GABAergic interneurons located close to MNCs. An excitatory and selective input to vasopressin-secreting MNCs follows chemoreceptor activation, possibly mediated by the A1 noradrenergic cell group in the ventrolateral medulla. Another excitatory input to both vasopressin- and oxytocin-secreting MNCs is triggered by circulating angiotensin II and appears to be relayed centrally through an angiotensinergic projection from the subfornical organ.
This paper first briefly reviews the evidence for synaptic and nonsynaptic plasticity among the neurons and glia of the magnocellular hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system. Emphasis is placed upon the importance of the roles played by astrocytes in the remodeling of the magnocellular nuclei under various conditions of increased hormone demand. Evidence is then reviewed from more recent studies showing that there is electrical coupling among magnocellular neurons, and that this coupling shows plasticity similar to that shown for other characteristics of the system (e.g., chemical synapses, dendritic bundling etc.). Further, evidence is presented that extent of electrical coupling can be modified not only by manipulating the physiological state of the animal (such as lactation), but also by electrical stimulation of newly described olfactory afferent inputs to the cells of the supraoptic nucleus. The possible functional significance of these findings is discussed in relation to the behavior of nursing rats.
Recent advances in the clinical neurosciences have begun to expand and change our understanding of how the brain functions. As further neuroscientific principles are delineated we may gain insights into the underlying pathophysiology of some psychiatric disorders and through this new understanding we may be able to define new therapeutic interventions. Two illustrative examples of neuroscientific research are discussed and reviewed both in terms of the promises and dangers inherent in these new approaches to the mind.

The contributions of orientation and maintenance of attention to the measurement of ear asymmetry was investigated in 20 right handed subjects. The subject listened to dichotic lists and had to respond to a target word in either the male or the female voice only (focused attention), or both voices (divided attention). At random positions throughout the lists the voices changed ears. A switch in voices from one side of space to the other interfered with speech processing during focused attention, but facilitated the detection of targets during divided attention. The interference was greater for the left than the right ear during focused attention. Likewise, facilitation during divided attention was asymmetrical, with right targets receiving faster processing. The qualitative differences of attention strategy on ear asymmetry during dichotic listening may be due to hemispheric differences in preferred attentional modes.
To generate stable lines of transgenic fish, early zebrafish embryos were injected with high concentrations of a linear bacterial plasmid. After injection, the foreign DNA was converted into a high molecular weight form and then amplified approximately tenfold during the initial rapid cleavages characteristic of the early embryo prior to gastrulation. While most of this DNA was subsequently degraded during gastrulation, some of the foreign sequences survived the gastrula stage and could be found in most of the injected fish at 3 weeks of age. Only about 5% of fish analysed 4 months after the injection retained foreign DNA in their fins, usually at less than one copy per cell. One of these fish was also found to contain about 100 copies per cell of foreign DNA in a fraction of its germ cells. Approximately 20% of the F1 offspring from this germ-line-positive parent inherited the foreign DNA, whereas 50% of F2 progeny obtained from an identified F1 individual inherited these sequences. The 50% transmission rate in F2 progeny was as expected for a single, heterozygous genomic insert. These observations indicate that injected DNA can be integrated into the fish genome, that the resulting transgenic fish are mosaic and that some of these mosaic individuals give rise to stable lines of transgenic fish.
Enkephalin convertase (EC; carboxypeptidase-E or -H) is a carboxypeptidase-B-like enzyme proposed to be involved in the synthesis of enkephalins and other neuropeptides. In this study we have characterized and localized EC in the rat heart and examined its correspondence with atrial natriuretic factor. Heart homogenates bind [3H]guanidinoethylmercaptosuccinic acid ([ 3H]GEMSA), a selective ligand for enkephalin convertase, with specificity and high affinity (Kd = 5-10 nM). The pharmacology of these sites matches that of convertase catalytic activity and of [3H]GEMSA binding in other tissues. The binding sites in the heart can be purified 4000-fold using p-aminobenzoylarginine affinity chromatography, and the purified sites have Co2+ stimulated carboxypeptidase activity identical to EC. By subcellular fractionation studies [3H]GEMSA-binding sites are localized to the granule fraction with ANF immunoreactivity. [3H]GEMSA autoradiography localizes EC in the heart to the left and right atria, with very low levels in mature and ventricles. The distribution, biochemical properties, and developmental course of EC suggest that it may be involved in the synthesis of atrial natriuretic factor.
In the mature rat we determined the extent of peripheral nerve collagenosis in response to Wallerian degeneration and examined whether or not nonfibroblastic elements such as Schwann cells were important. Collagen was estimated as the hydroxy-proline content of normal and axotomized nerve fascicles after single or double crush lesions of both myelinated and unmyelinated nerves. Crushed unmyelinated nerve produced two to four times more collagen relative to control nerve than did the sciatic nerve. The nature of the interaction between two successive crushes was different in the two nerves. These results suggest that the degree of collagen fibrillogenesis occurring in Wallerian degeneration is dependent on peripheral nerve type and that the presence of myelin is not necessary for collagen fibrillogenesis.
Regional cerebral incorporation of intravenously injected [U-14C]palmitate was measured from 1 day to 13 weeks after left cochlear destruction in 11-day- and 3 month-old, awake Fischer-344 rats. In 11-day-old animals, statistically significant left-right differences in incorporation were absent 1 day after cochlear destruction and were found only in parts of the cochlear nucleus and inferior colliculus after 1 week. After 6 to 13 weeks, consistent with functional neuroanatomy of central auditory regions, incorporation was reduced by 6 to 9% in the left cochlear nucleus and left lateral superior olivary nucleus, compared with corresponding right-side regions. The right medial superior olivary nucleus, medial nucleus of the trapezoid body, lateral lemniscus nucleus, inferior colliculus, medial geniculate body, and auditory cortex had 5 to 9% less incorporation than did corresponding left-side regions. Fewer significant differences after chronic auditory deprivation occurred in 3-month-old rats than in 11-day-old rats following cochlear destruction. Reduced incorporation corresponded to reported changes in cell morphology, which also were greater in immature than mature rats following auditory deprivation. The results suggest that the palmitate method can be used to identify long-term regional changes in the turnover of brain lipids after sensory deprivation.
Maturational changes at the neuromuscular junction (nmj) of rat neonates were studied using scanning electron microscopy and light microscopy that permitted quantification of muscle fiber diameter, length of nerve terminal branching, end-plate area, and perimeter. Administration of ACTH 4-10 (10 micrograms/kg s.c. daily from day of birth) stimulated nerve terminal branching, an effect most evident in 14-day-old pups. The trisubstituted derivative of ACTH 4-9 (Org 2766) when administered at 0.01 microgram/kg/daily, had a more potent effect, increasing end-plate perimeter and nerve terminal branching on the first postnatal week and markedly increasing only nerve terminal branching at 14 days of age. This is a dose-responsive action since 10 micrograms/kg/daily severely inhibits nerve sprouting. By 21 days, there were no differences between peptide- and saline-treated neonates. Peptide-induced sprouting was elicited only in the first 2 weeks of postnatal life. This time course corresponds with the critical period for nmj maturation and ceases when polyneuronal innervation of muscle fibers also terminates. It is suggested that ACTH peptides may exert a physiological role on nerve sprouting during development.


Specific DNA fragments complementary to the 3' untranslated regions of the beta-, alpha-cardiac, and alpha-skeletal actin mRNAs were used as in situ hybridization probes to examine differential expression and distribution of these mRNAs in primary myogenic cultures. We demonstrated that prefusion bipolar-shaped cells derived from day 3 dissociated embryonic somites were equivalent to myoblasts derived from embryonic day 11-12 pectoral tissue with respect to the expression of the alpha-cardiac actin gene. Fibroblasts present in primary muscle cultures were not labeled by the alpha-cardiac actin gene probe. Since virtually all of the bipolar cells express alpha-cardiac actin mRNA before fusion, we suggest that the bipolar phenotype may distinguish a committed myogenic cell type. In contrast, alpha-skeletal actin mRNA accumulates only in multinucleated myotubes and appears to be regulated independently from the alpha-cardiac actin gene. Accumulation of alpha-skeletal but not alpha-cardiac actin mRNA can be blocked by growth in Ca2+-deficient medium which arrests myoblast fusion. Thus, the sequential appearance of alpha-cardiac and then alpha-skeletal actin mRNA may result from factors that arise during terminal differentiation. Finally, the beta-actin mRNA was located in both fibroblasts and myoblasts but diminished in content during myoblast fusion and was absent from differentiated myotubes. It appears that in primary myogenic cultures, an asynchronous stage-dependent induction of two different alpha-striated actin mRNA species occurs concomitant with the deinduction of the nonmuscle beta-actin gene.
The distribution and morphologic characteristics of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT)-containing neurons were studied throughout the rostrocaudal extent of the rat hippocampus and in a midline area just dorsal to the dorsal hippocampus. Peroxidase reaction product was observed with the aid of immunohistochemical methods and a high-titer polyclonal antibody against ChAT, the acetylcholine biosynthetic enzyme. ChAT-positive cells in the hippocampus were characterized by small, round or oval perikarya with two or more proximal processes. They were located within the caudal and temporal hippocampal formation, predominantly within the subiculum, in the stratum lacunosum moleculare, at the border of the stratum lacunosum moleculare and the stratum radiatum, and in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. The cells resembled in morphology the small, bipolar and multipolar neocortical ChAT-immunoreactive cells. In addition to the hippocampus, ChAT-positive neurons were observed caudally in a region just above the dorsal hippocampal commissure and rostrally in the columns of the fornix. These cells were large with an oval perikarya and darkly labeled compared to neurons in the hippocampus. They more closely resembled the ChAT-positive neurons in the midline raphe of the medial septal nucleus. Examination of the rat hippocampus 2 and 8 weeks following unilateral lesioning of the fimbria-fornix and supracallosal striae revealed a sparse innervation of ChAT-positive fibers in the hippocampus ipsilateral to the lesion. ChAT-labeled neurons in the hippocampus did not appear to sprout in response to the lesion. In contrast, ChAT-positive cells in the midline did appear to sprout into the medial dorsal subiculum and dorsal medial hippocampus. We conclude that these two populations of cells are distinct with respect to their response to hippocampal denervation and, furthermore, that this distinction may be attributed to a differential response to nerve growth factor.

This paper presents the clinical features in 12 patients with the Madras pattern of motor neuron disease (MMND) seen over a period of 10 years. Ten of the patients were from other parts of South India, outside Madras. Young age at onset, sporadic occurrence, sensorineural deafness, bulbar palsy, diffuse atrophy with weakness of limbs and progressive but benign course were the striking features. Electromyography revealed chronic partial denervation. MMND formed 3.7% of all forms of motor neuron disease. Although isolated cases have been seen elsewhere in India, this is the first report of a large number of patients of MMND seen outside Madras (Tamil Nadu). Recognition of this clinical syndrome is of importance for prognostication and as well for search of possible aetiological factors.
The cerebellar Purkinje neuron cultured from 20 d rat embryos is electrically inexcitable when immature, and acquires excitable membrane properties according to a programmed developmental sequence, thus providing a useful model for investigating mechanisms of CNS neuronal development. Using conventional patch-clamp techniques, we have characterized the the predominant classes of active K+-selective channels at a range of ages encompassing the entire developmental process from 5 to 29 d in vitro (DIV), and have shown pharmacologically that these channels are important contributors to the patterns of spontaneous activity generated by the Purkinje neurons. The 4 predominant classes of K+ channels that are active during steady-state depolarizing voltage commands are identified by unit conductances as the 27, 44, 70, and 100 pS channels, and show differences in several properties, including voltage dependence, sensitivity to tetraethylammonium chloride (TEA), mean open time, and time of appearance during development. Intracellular current-clamp recordings show that physiological maturation of the Purkinje neuron entails increases in the firing rate, the diversity of spike events that comprise spontaneous activity, and the sensitivity of spontaneous activity to disruption by the K+ channel blocker TEA. This increase in sensitivity to TEA correlates with the new expression of activity of the larger-conductance TEA-sensitive classes of K+ channel (70 and 100 pS types). These data show that developmental regulation of the activity of K+-selective channels contributes significantly to the ionic mechanisms that underlie the developmental transitions in spontaneous activity patterns in the Purkinje neuron.
After peripheral injections of the electrochemically active drug acetaminophen, striatal levels of the drug were measured in 3 different ways: in vivo electrochemistry, in vivo dialysis, and tissue assay. The time course of the acetaminophen concentrations measured by in vivo dialysis paralleled the in vivo electrochemistry curve and lagged behind the peak tissue concentration. This result suggests that dialysis and electrochemistry provide equivalent measurements of extracellular fluid acetaminophen. In vitro, dialysis recovery of acetaminophen was 28% of the beaker concentration.
This article is part of a study on cortical microcircuitry in which flash evoked potentials (FEPs) were recorded from the anesthetized rat visual cortex. The FEPs were subjected to current source density analysis (CSD). One of the limitations of the CSD method is the need for recording sites outside the sampling volume, in order to obtain a full description of the CSD distribution. This problem is acute in the neocortex where a tissue/fluid boundary exists. A simple solution is provided based on the fact that the field potentials decay minimally under the conditions of these experiments. In the neocortex the most superficial recording site and the deepest recording site are used to provide the extra recording sites necessary to obtain a full description of the CSD distribution. This approach when tested by summing the current sinks and sources across all layers of cortex produces excellent results, with significant reduction of the residual sinks and sources.
We present a novel method for measuring changes in the timing of spikes evoked by a stimulus in single neurons. The result provides an unambiguous separation of the stimulus effect from effects due to intrinsic spike train patterns. This separation facilitates the comparison of responses in different neurons. The analysis is based only on the spike train and requires no models of the underlying cell behavior.
Although the individual's baseline neurological status may appear normal, episodic dyscontrol syndrome presents with recurrent outbursts of rage. In some cases family may describe a history of personality traits reflective of minimal brain dysfunction, and the study by Elliot confirmed organic cerebral disorders in 94% of the sample. Due to difficulty of diagnosis and lack of reporting, as well as social factors, the prevalence of this syndrome may be underestimated. This article discusses the syndrome, reviews a case history and outlines the role of the neuroscience nurse.
Two varieties of memory disorders can be distinguished--those characterized by the phenomenon of forgetfulness and those characterized by the presence of an amnesic state. Although these two conditions may appear similar, they have different anatomical correlates and functional significance. States of forgetfulness and amnesia arise from different etiologies, have different prognoses and require different therapeutic regimes. The purpose of this article is to distinguish these two varieties of memory disorders and contrast them as to anatomical features, functional differences, etiologies, prognoses and therapeutic management regimes. This should assist the neuroscience nurse to better understand relevant nursing assessment features and plan appropriate therapeutic nursing interventions for the client. Teaching protocols for families and significant others as well as clients with memory impairments should also be enhanced.

One hundred twenty-two preterm infants were enrolled in a placebo-controlled, double-blind trial using intravenous indomethacin for the prevention of periventricular-intraventricular hemorrhage (PVH-IVH). Before random assignment, data on the infants were stratified according to low-weight (500 to 999 g) or high-weight (1000 to 1500 g) subgroups. Cranial sonography was used to document the absence of PVH-IVH before enrollment and the occurrence of PVH-IVH during the 7-day protocol. Indomethacin, 0.1 mg/kg, or placebo was administered before 12 hours of age and at 24, 48, and 72 hours of age. Five patients receiving indomethacin and six receiving placebo were withdrawn before completion of the study. In the remaining 111 patients, the indomethacin and placebo groups were comparable with respect to gestational ages, maternal complications, Apgar scores, ventilatory requirements, complications of prematurity, and mortality rate. PVH-IVH developed in six of 56 infants who received indomethacin and 11 of 55 infants who received placebo (P = 0.174). Analysis of the individual strata showed that the indomethacin-treated infants in the low-weight subgroup sustained a higher mortality rate (11/17 vs 3/16; P = 0.008) without a reduction in the incidence of PVH-IVH. Infants in the indomethacin-treated high-weight subgroup demonstrated a significantly lower incidence of PVH-IVH (2/39 vs 8/39; P = 0.04), but the frequency of high-grade hemorrhages was comparable for both indomethacin- and placebo-treated groups. In summary, the prophylactic administration of intravenous indomethacin for the prevention of PVH-IVH cannot be recommended for infants less than 1000 g. In preterm infants between 1000 and 1500 g birth weight, indomethacin significantly reduced the incidence of PVH-IVH.

Morphine, an alkaloid known for its potent analgetic action, also affects a variety of immunologic functions. In the experiments reported here, the time course for the effect of 75-mg morphine pellet implants on spleen and thymus size and cellularity and in vitro proliferative responses of lymphocytes from male C3H/HeN mice is described. T lymphocyte proliferation in response to concanavalin A (Con A) was not significantly affected at 6 or 24 hr after morphine pellet implantation but was reduced at 48 and 72 hr. B lymphocyte proliferation in response to lipopolysaccharide was more sensitive to morphinization, as the response was reduced at the 24, 48 and 72 hr intervals after implantation of the morphine pellet. No differences in Con A- or lipopolysaccharide-induced proliferation were observed 96 hr after pellet implantation. Interestingly, a slight elevation of Con A-induced proliferation was observed 120 hr after morphine pellet implantation. By contrast with Con A proliferative data, lipopolysaccharide-induced proliferation of lymphocytes from morphine-treated mice was not different from placebo-pelleted mice at 120 hr. A marked atrophy of the spleen and thymus accompanied the reduced splenocyte proliferative responses of morphine-treated mice and was greatest at the 48 to 72 hr postimplantation interval. The attenuation of mitogen-induced proliferative responses and atrophy of immune organs was accompanied by hypothermia and a marked tolerance to the antinociceptive effect of morphine in morphine-pelleted mice at all of the time points that were monitored.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A study of the local actions of trimebutine (TMB) maleate and its N-diesmethyl metabolite (TMB-M) was carried out in the gastrointestinal tract of anesthetized dogs. In the unstimulated small intestine, but not in the stomach or colon, i.a. TMB and TMB-M caused activation of circular muscle. Like the activation by i.a. [Met5]-enkephalin, this was antagonized by naloxone. In field-stimulated segments of stomach and small intestine circular muscle, TMB or TMB-M, like dynorphin-1-13 or [Met5]-enkephalin, inhibited the phasic and tonic contractions which were mediated mostly by cholinergic, postganglionic nerves. However, the inhibitory effects of dynorphin-1-13 or [Met5]-enkephalin on small intestine were antagonized by naloxone whereas those of TMB sometimes or those of TMB-M usually were not. TMB or TMB-M did not affect responses to i.a. acetylcholine, but high doses reduced the contractile responses to subsequent field stimulation and excitatory responses to [Met5]-enkephalin. We concluded that the excitatory local actions of TMB or TMB-M on small intestine involved opioid receptors probably of the mu or delta types. Inhibitory local actions on nerve-mediated responses, however, may not have involved opioid receptors. Comparison of these data to results when TMB or TMB-M were given i.v. suggests that these agents also have peripheral actions to affect gastrointestinal motility at sites outside the gastrointestinal tract.
1. Protein kinase C (PKC) stimulators, 12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate (TPA) or cis-unsaturated fatty acid (UFA), have been shown to prolong synaptic enhancement induced by long-term potentiation (LTP). This observation suggests a role for PKC in the biochemical mechanisms underlying maintained enhancement. 2. To determine if PKC stimulators prolong LTP by acting selectively at synapses given high-frequency stimulation or by actions that are not synapse-specific (e.g. increased postsynaptic excitability) we examined the effect of TPA or UFA on input-selective enhancement. Population EPSPs, evoked in the same granule cell population by either the medial (MPP) or lateral (LPP) perforant path, can be selectively enhanced leaving the other perforant path input which receives only low-frequency stimulation as an internal control for PKC stimulator effects not specific to enhanced synapses. 3. Synapse-specific effects were in fact observed, as UFA or TPA selectively prolonged MPP enhancement following two trains of high-frequency MPP stimulation, without affecting responses evoked by the LPP. A similar synapse selectivity of PKC stimulator action was seen following high-frequency LPP stimulation. 4. These findings suggest that PKC stimulators prolong enhancement by acting specifically at high-frequency-stimulated synapses. PKC stimulators do not appear to affect either postsynaptic neurone excitability or synapses given only low-frequency stimulation. This provides further evidence that PKC acts synergistically with the consequences of repetitive synaptic activation to maintain enhancement.

The purpose of this study was to examine whether a microneurography electrode could record from and then selectively stimulate the same afferent fiber in cat sural and tibial nerves. Fiber activity was recorded distally with microneurography needle electrodes and proximally with hook electrodes. Records from the hook electrodes allowed the waveform shape and latency following natural stimulation to be compared with that produced by electrical stimuli delivered through the needle electrode. The action potentials from approximately 50% of the recorded fibers failed to propagate beyond the needle electrode. When propagation did occur and the comparison could be made, only 25% of the afferents recorded could be selectively stimulated. This relatively low success rate suggests that a typical microneurography needle is not particularly good for selectively stimulating identified afferents. Thus in human experiments, attempts to microstimulate identified afferents may often include stimulation of unidentified alternative, or additional, afferent fibers at thresholds of sensory perception.
We measured the cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (CMRglc) with positron emission tomography and [18F]2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose in a 47-year-old man with trisomy 21 Down's syndrome (DS) and autopsy-confirmed Alzheimer's disease. Dementia was evident from a confirmed history of cognitive decline, memory loss, and personality change. CMRglc in the subject was compared with the mean obtained in 13 healthy younger DS subjects, aged 19 to 33 years. Test scores of general intelligence, visuospatial ability, language, and memory function showed poorer performance in the older subject compared with the younger group. Mean hemispheric CMRglc in the older DS subject was 28% less than in the young DS group, and marked hypometabolism was evident in parietal and temporal lobe association cortices. At autopsy, extensive neuropathology was noted, especially in the parietal and temporal cortical regions, more so than reported in DS subjects without documented dementia. This study is the first complete assessment of cerebral metabolism, neuropsychological competence, and neuropathology in a DS subject with a documented course of dementia, and demonstrates the superimposition of Alzheimer type dementia on previous mental retardation.
Neuronal activity regulates the catabolism of specific structural proteins in adult mammalian brain. Pharmacological stimulation of rat hippocampal neurons by systemic or intraventricular administration of the excitatory amino acids kainate or N-methyl-D-aspartate induces selective loss of brain spectrin and the microtubule-associated protein MAP2, as determined by quantitative immunoblotting, but not of actin, the high molecular weight neurofilament polypeptide, or glial fibrillary acidic protein. The spectrin decrease occurs primarily by enhanced proteolysis, as levels of the major breakdown products of the alpha-subunit increase more than 7-fold. This proteolysis may occur from activation of the calcium-dependent neutral protease calpain I. The immunopeptide maps produced by alpha-spectrin degradation, selective loss of spectrin and MAP2, and decrease in calpain I levels are all consistent with calpain I activation accompanied by autoproteolysis. We propose that calcium influx and calpain I activation provide a mechanism by which neuronal activity regulates the degradation of specific neuronal structural proteins and may thereby modify neuronal morphology.
2-Amino-5-phosphonovalerate (APV, icv) phencyclidine (PCP, ip) and scopolamine (sc) dose-dependently disrupted short term working memory in radial maze. These drugs injected before, but not after training attenuated retention of long term memory in passive avoidance task. A relation of PCP action to its antagonism at NMDA receptors may be suggested.
In primary cultures of cerebellar granule cells, glutamate receptors have been classified into metabolotropic (GP1 and GP2) and ionotropic (GC1 and GC2). The GP1 and GC1 receptors are negatively modulated by magnesium and noncompetitively inhibited by phencyclidine; GP2 and GC2 receptors are insensitive to inhibition by magnesium and phencyclidine (Costa, Fadda, Kozikowski, Nicoletti and Wroblewski, 1988). Exposure of cultured cerebellar granule cells to pertussis toxin (PTX, 1 microgram/ml for 14-16 hr) reduced the stimulation of the hydrolysis of inositol phospholipids (PI) by the GP2 receptor agonists, glutamate and quisqualate in the presence of magnesium, but did not inhibit the stimulation of the hydrolysis of PI by GP1 receptor agonists. The stimulation of the hydrolysis of PI by the muscarinic cholinergic receptor agonist, carbamylcholine, remained unchanged after pretreatment with pertussis toxin. In membranes prepared from cerebellar granule cells in primary culture, the addition of guanosine 5'-0-(3-thiotriphosphate) (GTP-gamma-s), a nonhydrolyzable analogue of GTP, enhanced the hydrolysis of PI and reduced the Bmax of quisqualate-displaceable binding of [3H]glutamate. These results indicate that, in primary cultures of cerebellar granule cells, a specific class of metabolotropic glutamate receptors (the GP2 receptor) is coupled with the hydrolysis of PI through a pertussis toxin-sensitive GTP-binding protein.
The effects of idazoxan, a specific alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist, on spinal inhibition by administration of noradrenaline and from electrical stimulation of the dorsolateral pons were studied in 26 cats anaesthetized with sodium pentobarbitone. The excitation of dorsal horn neurons of the spinal cord by noxious heating of the skin or by impulses in unmyelinated primary afferent fibres was markedly reduced when noradrenaline was administered microelectrophoretically in the substantia gelatinosa or near cell bodies. Electrical stimulation of the region of the locus coeruleus selectively inhibited spinal nociceptive transmission when dorsal horn neurons were excited by noxious and non-noxious stimuli. In contrast to stimulation of the locus coeruleus, stimulation of the nucleus Kolliker-Fuse produced non-selective inhibition of both nociceptive and non-nociceptive responses of dorsal horn neurons of the spinal cord. Microelectrophoretic ejection of idazoxan reduced or abolished noradrenaline-induced inhibition with 19 of 20 neurons. This antagonist did not alter inhibition from stimulation of the locus coeruleus and the nucleus Kolliker-Fuse, regardless of whether it was administered microelectrophoretically (11 neurons), systemically (3 neurons) or topically (4 neurons). The results suggest that alpha 2-adrenoceptors do not mediate inhibition of spinal nociceptive transmission from electrical stimulation of the locus coeruleus and the nucleus Kolliker-Fuse. Other possibilities for the failure of idazoxan to modify inhibition from such stimulation are discussed.
The effect of anisosmotic physiological solutions and [K+]o on the resistance in series with the axon membrane were studied in medial giant axons of the crayfish, Procambarus clarkii, to determine if changes in series resistance are correlated with changes in glial cell volume and volume regulatory responses. Series resistance was estimated from computer analysed voltage waveforms generated by constant current and space clamp techniques using piggy-back axial wire current passing and glass pipette recording electrodes. Axons subjected to anisosmotic physiological solution in the range of 23 to 175% of isosmolar solution demonstrated that the series resistance of axons changes in a manner similar to that expected for a volume change in isolated cells. In hyperosmotic solution the series resistance changes biphasically, initially decreasing followed by a recovery of the series resistance, similar to the regulatory volume increase described for glial cells in culture. The increase in series resistance following the initial decrease is inhibited by bumetanide (0.1 mM). Ouabain (1 mM), an inhibitor of the volume decreasing Na-K pump, causes the series resistance to increase significantly above that seen for the no-drug control. Bumetanide, an inhibitor of the volume increasing Na-K-Cl cotransporter, inhibits the volume regulatory response to anisosmotic media. Treating the axon with three times normal external [K+] causes the series resistance to decrease approximately 15% while five times normal [K+] leads to a 15% increase in series resistance. Both ouabain and d-tubocurare (10(-p8) M) prevent the three-fold [K+]-induced decrease in series resistance while carbachol (10(-7) M) and bumetanide have little effect. On the other hand, ouabain enhances the five-fold [K+]-induced increase in series resistance while carbachol and bumetanide cause the five-fold [K+] response to be in a decreasing direction. d-Tubocurare has little effect on the five-fold [K+]-induced increase in series resistance. The study demonstrates that under the conditions of these experiments changes in series resistance are a reflection of changes in cell volume modulated by ouabain- and bumetanide-sensitive K+ uptake mechanisms. The effects of carbachol and d-tubocurare on the series resistance suggest that their effects are modulated through their actions on the glial cell membrane potential and the electrochemical gradient for K+, which in turn controls the amount of K+ that appears in the periaxonal space.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The small electrical resistance in series with the axon membrane is generally modeled as the intercellular pathway for current flow through the periaxonal glial (Schwann cell) sheath. The series resistance of the medial giant axon of the crayfish, Procambarus clarkii, was found to vary with conditions known to affect the electrical properties of the periaxonal glia. Series resistance was estimated from computer analysed voltage waveforms generated by axial wire-constant current and space clamp techniques. The average series resistance for all axons was 6.2 +/- 0.5 omega cm2 (n = 128). Values ranged between 1 and 30 omega cm2. The series resistance of axons with low resting membrane resistance (less than 1500 omega cm2) increased an average of 30% when stimulated for 45 s to 7 min (50 Hz) whereas the series resistance of high membrane resistance (greater than 1500 omega cm2) axons decreased an average of 10%. Carbachol (10(-7) M) caused the series resistance of low membrane resistance axons to decrease during stimulation but had no effect on high membrane resistance axons. d-Tubocurare (10(-8) M) caused the series resistance of high membrane resistance axons to increase during stimulation but had no effect on low membrane resistance axons. Bumetanide, a Na-K-Cl cotransport inhibitor and low [K+]o, prevented the stimulation-induced increase in series resistance of low membrane resistance axons but had no effect on the high membrane resistance axons. The results suggest that the series resistance of axons varies in response to the activity of the glial K+ uptake mechanisms stimulated by the appearance of K+ in the periaxonal space during action potential generation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The ionic basis for the low (-40 mV) resting membrane potential of glial cells surrounding the giant axons of the crayfish and their hyperpolarization by cholinergic agents (to -55 mV) was studied using standard electrophysiological techniques, ionic substitutions and pharmacological agents. The resting membrane potential of the glial cell was depolarized by increasing [K+]o, but the response was not Nernstian. Na+ depletion caused a small depolarization of the glial resting membrane potential, whereas Cl- depletion resulted in a hyperpolarization comparable to that seen with carbachol at various [K+]o. Both furosemide (1 mM) and bumetanide (0.1 mM) produced an 8-10 mV hyperpolarization as compared to 15-17 mV seen with Cl- depletion or carbachol. Carbachol has no further effect on the potential following furosemide treatment or Cl- depletion. After carbachol administration or Cl- depletion the resting membrane potential of the glial cell responded to [K+]o in a more Nernstian manner. The data indicate that the low resting membrane potential of glial cells is due to a combination of a low [K+]i and an outwardly-directed (depolarizing) Cl- electrochemical gradient. Carbachol acts to decrease Cl- conductance, resulting in the hyperpolarization of the glial cell membrane and a decrease in the outwardly-directed K+ electrochemical gradient by approximately two-thirds. We hypothesize that this mechanism for modulation of the glial cell membrane potential and the K+ electrochemical gradient serves to enhance the uptake of K+ by the glial cell transport system.
The distribution of GABA-like immunoreactivity in glutaraldehyde-fixed pigeon brains was studied by means of a monoclonal antibody. GABA-like immunoreactivity was observed in neuronal perikarya of different sizes as well as in neuropil and in certain fiber tracts. Certain staining patterns indicated the existence of several GABAergic projection systems in the pigeon brain. Indeed, a high density of immunostained perikarya and a low density of labeled terminal-like elements was the prominent pattern in the nuclei subpretectalis and posteroventralis, while an absence of perikaryal GABA-like immunoreactivity and accumulations of immunoreactive dots were observed in the isthmo-optic nucleus, amongst others. In the optic tectum, stained cell bodies with radially oriented processes in layer IIi (10) and with horizontally oriented processes in layer IId (5) were seen and were reminiscent of autoradiographic labeling patterns obtained previously following tectal injection of tritiated GABA. In the cerebellum, GABA-like immunoreactivity involved all types of neurons with the exception of granule cells. Purkinje cells showed regionally different intensities of immunostaining. In addition, in folium X no stained basket-like elements were observed. Although there is no evidence as yet about the function of GABA in most of the structures, the present results indicate an important role for this neurotransmitter in the pigeon brain.
The distribution of melanin-concentrating hormone-like immunoreactivity was investigated by radioimmunoassay in the CNS of rat, guinea-pig, pig and man. Highest concentrations of melanin-concentrating hormone-like immunoreactivity were found in the hypothalamus of all the species: rat 204.4 +/- 14.9; guinea-pig 159.5 +/- 23.3; pig 10.9 +/- 4.5 and man 80.1 +/- 19.1 pmol/g. Gel chromatographic analysis of hypothalamic extracts showed five immunoreactive peaks of melanin-concentrating hormone-like immunoreactivity in the rat and pig and six in the guinea-pig and man. High-performance liquid chromatography analysis of hypothalamic extracts showed five immunoreactive peaks in rat, guinea-pig, pig and four in man. However, these peaks appeared at different retention times from that of the single peak of salmon melanin-concentrating hormone. Examination of subcellular fractions of whole rat brain showed that most of the melanin-concentrating hormone-like immunoreactivity is found in the synaptosome fraction. Stimulation of melanin-concentrating hormone-like immunoreactivity release from rat hypothalamic slices revealed that potassium in the presence of calcium stimulated melanin-concentrating hormone-like immunoreactivity release. These findings suggest that mammalian melanin-concentrating hormone-like immunoreactivity has a different amino acid sequence from salmon melanin-concentrating hormone and may exist in multiple molecular forms. It is possible that melanin-concentrating hormone may play a role as a neurotransmitter or modulator in the mammalian CNS.
The autoradiographic 2-deoxy-D-[1-14C]glucose method was used to map the effect of subacute capsaicin administration on local cerebral glucose utilization, an index of brain function. After treatment with an 80 mg/kg, subcutaneous, cumulative dose of capsaicin over 3 days, a challenge dose of 20 mg/kg capsaicin stimulated glucose utilization in dorsal column and brainstem nuclei which receive primary sensory afferent input or are important in autonomic functions. Glucose utilization in the medial septum was simultaneously reduced. Following a 280 mg/kg cumulative dose of capsaicin over 5 days, a capsaicin challenge dose of 20 mg/kg did not stimulate glucose utilization in the hindbrain, but the decrement in the medial septum was maintained and extended into the lateral septum. The findings provide evidence for a central component of the stimulation and subsequent insensitivity observed with continued capsaicin treatment, and suggest that the deoxyglucose procedure is useful in elucidating the neuroanatomical areas involved in several of the sensory and autonomic effects of capsaicin.
The ventrobasal thalamus and adjacent regions were stained for the presence of N-acetylaspartylglutamate-like immunoreactivity. Immunoreactive axonal terminals were observed in this area and also in certain non-specific thalamic nuclei, the reticular thalamic nucleus and the lateral geniculate nucleus. Stained somata were found in the habenula, centrolateral thalamic nucleus and reticular thalamic nucleus. Iontophoretically applied N-acetylaspartylglutamate had variable, although predominantly inhibitory, actions on ventrobasal thalamus neurons. These results indicate that N-acetylaspartylglutamate is unlikely to be the neurotransmitter of ascending somatosensory afferents, but do not rule out the possibility that it has some other neurotransmitter or neuromodulator role in the ventrobasal thalamus.
In the adult rat the striatum is a compartmentalized structure, which is reflected in the inhomogeneous distribution of dopamine. As a first step to test the hypothesis that dopamine plays an organizational role in the development of the striatum, the ontogeny of the dopaminergic system was studied in detail with immunocytochemical methods employing antibodies against dopamine. Rat embryos, fetuses, pups and adults were perfusion-fixed with glutaraldehyde on all prenatal days from E11 onward, postnatally on P2, P4, P6, P7, P8, P13, P14, P20, P21, and in adult age. On E13 the first dopaminergic cells are detected in the ventral prosencephalon. On E14 two dopaminergic cell groups are present in the ventral mesencephalon, and fibres of these cells reach the ventrolateral part of the ganglionic eminence. In the next two days both the cell groups and their projections rapidly increase in size. On E17 the afferent dopaminergic fibres to the striatum become aligned and form huge bundles that are closely associated with the fascicles of the internal capsule. Rostrally, the development of the striatal dopaminergic innervation shows a clear ventrolateral to dorsomedial gradient, whereas more caudally the dopaminergic fibres innervate the striatum from a ventromedial position. The lateral parts of the otherwise compact mesencephalic cell groups consist of loosely arranged cells. From E17 onward these cells become arranged into a dorsal and a ventral group. Just before birth, on E21, the primordia of the dopaminergic cell groups in the substantia nigra pars compacta and pars reticulata can be observed. On E19 several centres with extensive fibre ramifications along the dorsolateral margin of the caudate putamen represent the first signs of the inhomogeneous distribution of dopaminergic fibres in the dorsal striatum seen during the next two weeks. In the following pre- and postnatal days these so-called dopaminergic &quot;patches&quot; also appear more medially. By the third postnatal week most of the patches are no longer detectable, and only the most dorsolaterally located ones, i.e. in the region where they first were detected on E19, remain visible through to the adult stage. Prenatally, no varicosities can be observed in the dopaminergic fibres. The first varicosities appear after birth. Their number increase rapidly during the first and second postnatal weeks and reaches near adult levels on P20. The development of the striatal dopaminergic innervation, and that of the &quot;patches&quot; in particular, is discussed in relation to the development of the mesencephalic dopaminergic cell groups.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Neuromedin U is a newly described regulatory peptide, found by radioimmunoassay in significant concentrations in both the brain and gut of the rat. The aim of the present study was to localize this peptide immunoreactivity to discrete structures of the gut and brain and to map its distribution using immunocytochemistry. In the gut, neuromedin U was confined to nerve fibres mainly in the myenteric and submucous plexuses and the mucosa of all areas except stomach. Immunoreactive ganglion cells were seen in both ganglionated plexuses and their number did not increase following colchicine administration. This observation and the finding that the population of neuromedin U-immunoreactive nerves in the ileum was not affected by complete extrinsic denervation indicated that the nerves are mostly intrinsic in origin. Colocalization studies revealed neuromedin U and calcitonin gene-related peptide were present in the same myenteric and submucosal ganglion cells. Transection experiments showed that, like calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactive nerves, fibres containing neuromedin U project for very short distances in both an oral and anal direction. At the electron microscopic level, neuromedin U immunoreactivity, demonstrated using the immunogold technique, was localized to large granular vesicles. In the central nervous system, neuromedin U immunoreactivity was localized to fibres which were widespread throughout the brain, except in the cerebellum. The presence of neuromedin U-immunoreactive cell bodies was restricted to the rostrocaudal part of the arcuate nucleus. Colocalization studies showed that a proportion of the neuromedin U-immunoreactive cell bodies in the arcuate nucleus also contained pro-opiomelanocortin. Neuromedin U-immunoreactive fibres were first detected in the rat intestinal mucosa at day 1 after birth. In the brain, the arcuate nucleus showed neuromedin U-immunoreactive neuronal cell bodies at E16 but not at E14. In conclusion, neuromedin U is a new member of the group of molecules known as brain-gut peptides.
We have previously shown that rat enteric neurons display many of their in vivo phenotypes when they are dissociated and grown in long-term cell culture. To assess the degree of plasticity of these phenotypes we have examined the effect of medium conditioned by rat heart cells because this treatment strongly affects transmitter properties in rat sympathetic neurons in culture. Growth of enteric neurons for 3-4 weeks in conditioned medium caused several changes that are similar to previously described effects of conditioned medium on other neuronal cell types in culture. When compared to cultures grown in control medium, cultures grown in conditioned medium: (i) contained three times as many large (greater than 25 micron) neurons; (ii) synthesized and stored 3-4 times as much acetylcholine; (iii) contained 4-5 times as many neurons with detectable 5-hydroxytryptamine immunoreactivity; and (iv) contained 10 times as many neurons that fired repetitively during sustained depolarization. Several other changes, which have not been reported in other systems, were also observed. Conditioned medium cultures: (i) contained many fewer neuronal processes with immunohistochemically detectable vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, substance P, somatostatin, and [Met]enkephalin; (ii) contained 70% fewer neuronal cell bodies with vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-like immunoreactivity; and (iii) contained four times as many neurons that had muscarinic responses to acetylcholine. None of the changes in properties described above uniformly affected all enteric neurons, even after 6 weeks of growth in conditioned medium. We conclude that the heterogeneity of enteric neuron phenotypes is established prior to birth and limits the capacity of certain subsets of neurons to respond to exogenous factors in the environment. Nevertheless, the phenotypes of other subsets of neurons displayed considerable plasticity when exposed to conditioned medium.
The degree of participation of grafted neurons in sensory analysis was investigated in embryonal rat somatosensory neocortex transplanted into the cavity at the place of the barrel field in the neocortex (SI) of adult rats. The neurons were investigated extracellularly 3 to 6 months after grafting. In the majority of grafts the neurons had normal levels and patterns of spontaneous activity. Many of them (65%) responded to displacement of the whiskers with latencies insignificantly different (18 +/- 0.8 ms) from those for reactions in the intact barrel field (16 +/- 0.5 ms). The receptive fields of the grafted neurons were very large. None of the neurons responded to stimulation of a single vibrissa, as in intact cortex. As a rule, the same neuron responded to isolated deflections of several (up to 10-20) vibrissae. Many of them were responsive to stimulation of the small anterior vibrissae and tactile stimulation of nose, limbs and body surface. Nevertheless, there was some spatial gradient in the effectiveness of stimulation of the body surface at various distances from the vibrissal pad; among effective vibrissae, usually several adjacent ones (2-4) produced larger responses with shorter latencies than the other ones. All units responded to painful stimuli irrespective of their location. The data show that the grafted neurons receive and may transmit sensory signals. The grafts which were proved histologically to be isolated from the host's brain did not respond to sensory stimulation and were characterized by the presence of aperiodic hypersynchronous bursts in their background activity. Electrophysiological criteria may be used for intravital diagnosis on the degree of the graft morphofunctional integration.
Lanthanum (1.9 mM) has previously been shown to produce a massive increase in the frequency of spontaneous miniature junction potentials at the neuromuscular junctions of goldfish fin muscles. In fins where transmission has been blocked by previous injection of tetanus toxin and where there are few (if any) spontaneous miniature potentials, lanthanum treatment is able to restore a modest frequency. The results of parallel experiments in which the ultrastructure of the nerve endings has been investigated by electron microscopy are reported. In normal goldfish muscles, the lanthanum-induced increase in frequency is accompanied by depletion of synaptic vesicles. In contrast, there is no depletion in tetanus toxin-paralysed nerve endings subjected to lanthanum treatment, which parallels the relative insensitivity of the endings to activation by lanthanum. Of particular interest is the finding that the lanthanum treatment of the toxin muscles apparently causes accumulation of vesicles in a row just inside the terminal membrane, both at synaptic and non-synaptic positions. The results are discussed with respect to the mechanisms of transmitter release and to the actions of tetanus toxin and lanthanum.
An analytical, recursive method has been developed to demonstrate the anisotropic electrotonic geometry of nerve cells containing varicose or spiny dendrites. The procedure has been based on the distribution of the core geometry of dendrites into modules which consist of module elements where the physical length is much shorter than the actual space constant. The unambiguous representation of the anisotropic core geometry has been possible by plotting the decomposed geometries separated under the condition of the unidirectional spread of the wave front of dendritic potentials. This decomposition has revealed the bidirectional, &quot;smoothed&quot; core geometries as a function of irregular distribution of varicosities or spines. The shape of decomposed core geometries may change according to the position of the input site. The shaping of core geometry reflects the electrotonic effectiveness of a synaptic site to any arbitrary locations which may lead to considerable savings in computations on synaptic effects. The detailed, computer-reconstructed geometry of the apical dendritic field of the pyramidal cell has been analysed by the proposed method. The frequency-dependence of input impedances has been compared between the original and the transformed core geometries assuming that the current is injected into the soma. The significance of dendritic irregularities in the impedance matching has been studied when the shaping of the core geometry has been induced by laminar inputs. The proposed approach may be useful in comparing the input dependence of the receptive fields of different non-smooth cells. The mismatch of the core geometries induced by the opposite travelling waves from the same anatomical location has also been studied and the possible control of the preferred, direction-sensitive activities will be discussed. The important differences between the compartmental modelings based on the known isotropic treatment of dendrites and the more realistic anisotropic approach will be illustrated.
Photoreceptor potentials were recorded intracellularly from the isolated pineal organ of the teleost, Salmo gairdneri, maintained in tissue culture medium for 2-20 h. After electrophysiological characterization the photoreceptor cells were iontophoretically injected with Lucifer Yellow or with horseradish peroxidase for subsequent morphological identification. A brief flash of light elicited a hyperpolarization which was graded with light intensity in the dark-adapted photoreceptor. For dim flashes, the responses were purely monophasic. At higher intensities responses either remained purely monophasic or displayed an initial transient wave which became prominent for supersaturating intensities. The latency of the responses and their rise time decreased with increasing light intensity. Threshold responses showed latencies of about 600 ms, reached a maximum in about 1100 ms and returned to the dark potential in about 5 s. Saturating flashes considerably diminished the latency to 55 ms, the rise time to about 250 ms, but increased the time of recovery from peak to dark potential up to 60 s. Intracellular responses to background illumination exhibited two different response types. One type repolarized immediately, when the background light was extinguished, whereas the other type was characterized by a slow recovery of the dark potential. The spectral sensitivity of all intracellular recorded photoreceptors peaked at lambda max = 520-530 nm.
The directly photosensory pineal organ of the rainbow trout functions primarily as a luminance detector. Its neutral output reflects the level of ambient illumination in an almost linear fashion over several orders of magnitude. It may thus transmit information about the daily light-dark cycle to central projection targets in the brain, and exert an important control over putative central oscillators. We have studied single neural elements in the explanted pineal organ of the rainbow trout by combining intracellular recording with intracellular injections of either the fluorescent dye Lucifer Yellow CH or the electron dense marker horseradish peroxidase. After physiological characterization, dye was injected, and the pineal organs were processed for fluorescence or electron microscopy. Horseradish peroxidase-injected cells were selected with light microscopy, and were serially sectioned for electron microscopy. By examining the entire series of ultrathin sections of several labeled cells the following results were obtained. (1) Intensity-graded hyperpolarization that was elicited by light stimuli of all wavelengths could be either purely monophasic at all light intensities, or monophasic at low and intermediate light intensities but with an initial peak transient at response saturation. These two types of responses could be demonstrated to emanate from photoreceptor cells. (2) In addition, an interneuron that responded to light stimulation with intensity-graded hyperpolarizations that decreased in amplitude at high light intensities was identified by analysis of serial ultrathin sections. This interneuron was situated in close opposition to a photoreceptor-like element and another interneuron, both of which contained transcellularly transferred horseradish peroxidase. Transcellular transfer of horseradish peroxidase was repeatedly observed, although in the majority of cases only single cells were labeled. Intracellular injection of Lucifer Yellow CH consistently revealed dye-coupling between photoreceptors and between (inter)neurons. The numbers of labeled elements varied between two and eight cells, after intracellular injection of one cell. The present results indicate that the net neural output of the pineal organ is the result of a relatively complicated neural circuitry, encompassing different types of photoreceptors, interneurons and projection neurons. Electrical coupling between photoreceptors, between neurons, and between photoreceptors and neurons may provide spatial signal averaging. The very slow photoreceptor responses to photic stimulation may provide temporal signal averaging.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Intracellular recordings from hypoglossal motoneurons in the brainstem of cats are described, along with postsynaptic potentials evoked by superior laryngeal, vagal and carotid sinus nerve stimulation. The study concentrates on hypoglossal motoneurons with respiratory-related discharge, which can be categorized into inspiratory, inspiratory/early-expiratory and expiratory patterns. Seven cells were labelled with horseradish peroxidase, their location and morphology are described. Stimulation of laryngeal receptors by balloon inflation or by water injection into the larynx, or mimicked by electrical stimulation of the superior laryngeal nerve results in enhanced postinspiratory activity in those cells (inspiratory/early-expiratory, expiratory) already receiving postinspiratory excitation; or actually produces a wave of postinspiratory depolarization in cells (inspiratory) previously quiescent during that period. It is concluded that the firing pattern of the respiratory-modulated hypoglossal motoneurons is unlikely to be static but depends on other factors, one of these being the level of ongoing, or previous laryngeal receptor stimulation.
The distribution of arginine vasopressin-associated neurophysin (neurophysin II) immunoreactivity was investigated in normal and mutant house mice during development and after various gonadal steroid manipulations. During postnatal development of normal mice dense networks of neurophysin II immunoreactivity in the lateral septal nucleus and lateral habenular nucleus appeared earlier in male than in female mice, with an adult pattern of immunoreactivity being attained by 8 weeks and 12 weeks of age, respectively. The neurophysin II immunoreactivity in the male was denser than that in female mice. After gonadectomy of adult normal mice there was a gradual loss of neurophysin II immunoreactivity in the lateral septum and lateral habenula over a period of 15 weeks. In hypogonadal mice, a mutant in which gonadal development is arrested postnatally due to a deficiency in hypothalamic gonadotrophin releasing hormone, no immunoreactive neurophysin II could be detected in the lateral septum or lateral habenula. A pattern of neurophysin II immunoreactivity similar to that in normal control mice was observed in hypogonadal mice which had been implanted for 4 weeks with silicone elastomer capsules containing testosterone or oestradiol-17 beta, but not 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone or progesterone. Stimulation of gonadal development and endogenous steroid production in hypogonadal mice by third ventricular grafts of preoptic area tissue from normal neonatal animals also produced a normal pattern of neurophysin II immunoreactivity in the lateral septum and lateral habenula. In the androgen-insensitive testicular feminized mouse immunoreactive neurophysin II was undetectable in the lateral septum and lateral habenula. Treatment of testicular feminized mice with oestradiol-17 beta, but not progesterone, produced a normal pattern of neurophysin II immunoreactivity. The main immunohistological findings were confirmed by radioimmunoassay of tissue extracts which showed that the concentration of arginine vasopressin in lateral septum was far greater in normal males than females and was undetectable in hypogonadal mice; no oxytocin could be detected in the septum of normal or hypogonadal mice. These results show that the expression of neurophysin II immunoreactivity in the lateral septum and lateral habenula of the mouse brain is dependent on the presence of aromatizeable androgens or oestrogens.
The neuroprotective effects of the non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist (+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-imine maleate (MK-801) have been evaluated in the gerbil hippocampus when the drug was administered i.p. at various times during and after a 5 min period of transient forebrain ischaemia, induced by bilateral common carotid artery occlusion. A single dose of 1, 3 or 10 mg/kg of MK-801 gave significant protection of hippocampal CA1 and CA2 pyramidal neurons when administered during the occlusion and up to 24 h following the period of ischaemia. A dose of 0.3 mg/kg was effective when administered during the occlusion period but gave no protection at 30 min or 2 h post-ischaemia. Experiments in which MK-801 was administered in repeated doses indicated that significant protection was achieved with 1 mg/kg of MK-801 repeated post-ischaemically and with 1 mg/kg MK-801 supplemented with repeated doses of 0.3 mg/kg of MK-801. However 0.3 mg/kg of MK-801 followed by repeated doses of 0.03 mg/kg administered post-ischaemically was not neuroprotective. These results indicate that MK-801 can protect hippocampal neurons from ischaemia-induced neuronal degeneration when it is administered up to 24 h after the insult. These data provide further evidence that therapeutic intervention in the post-ischaemic period can successfully prevent neurodegenerative events, and that the delayed degeneration of hippocampal neurons following an ischaemic insult occurs by an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated process.
Biological systems are hypothesized to control behavior with reference to invariants, because this would allow the variable but robust accomplishment of tasks observed in biological behaviors. Invariants for legged locomotion are specified. Combined with observed properties of locomotion, they lead to predictions of forms of control for legged locomotion.
Local cerebral glucose utilization was measured in parallel groups of conscious rats following intravenous injection of either 1 mg/kg 8-hydroxy-2-(di-N-propylamino)tetralin (a 5-hydroxytryptamine 1A binding site agonist), 3 mg/kg 5-methoxy 3-(1,2,3,6-tetrahydro-4-pyridinyl)1H indole, succinate (a 5-hydroxytryptamine1B agonist), or saline alone, using the 2-deoxyglucose quantitative autoradiographic techniques (n = 5 in each of the three groups). Following both drugs, local rates of glucose use in the majority of the 72 brain areas analysed remained unaltered, but in some other regions either increases or decreases were observed. In keeping with the observed behavioural response to 8-hydroxy-2-(di-N-propylamino)tetralin there were marked increases in cerebellum (+56%) and motor cortex where a columnar arrangement of increased metabolism (+34%) contrasted with adjacent columns of decrease (-26%). Hippocampal areas showed moderate decreases in glucose use (-13 to -21%). All areas which increased following 8-hydroxy-2-(di-N-propylamino)tetralin also increased following 5-methoxy 3-(1,2,3,6-tetrahydro-4-pyridinyl)1H indole, succinate, but in the latter case all elements of the basal ganglia were also increased, including globus pallidus (+105%) and the striatum where the changes (+54%) were limited to a discrete dorsal region of the nucleus. In the hippocampus only dorsal dentate gyrus was decreased (-24%) whilst a moderate increase (+16%) was observed in dorsal subiculum. The complexity of these results contrasts with previous 2-deoxyglucose investigations where less specific 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor ligands were used, and suggests that certain aspects of brain function may be selectively targeted by systemic pharmacological manipulation of endogenous serotonergic systems.
Sensitive radioimmunoassays for calcitonin gene-related peptide and the tachykinin, neurokinin A, have been used to show that acute administration of the sensory neurotoxin capsaicin (10 mg/kg i.p.) to normal adult rats, causes a substantial release of calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactivity (15-fold increase) and neurokinin A immunoreactivity (4- to 5-fold increase) into the plasma. Neonatal administration of capsaicin (50 mg/kg s.c.) produced a long term deficit in the lumbar dorsal root ganglia content of calcitonin gene-related peptide (76% depletion), and neurokinin A immunoreactivity (86% depletion) in rats killed 6 weeks after administration. Acute capsaicin treatment of neonatally capsaicin-treated rats revealed that these animals still showed a capsaicin-evoked release of calcitonin gene-related peptide and neurokinin A immunoreactivity into the plasma. The increase in plasma content was, however, substantially less than that seen in normal (vehicle-treated) rats and was proportional to the initial basal plasma level of the respective peptides. Immunohistochemical staining using an anti-calcitonin gene-related peptide antiserum revealed that, despite the neonatal capsaicin treatment and loss of dorsal root ganglia content, the lumbar dorsal horn had a near normal pattern of calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactivity. This observation was supported by radioimmunoassays carried out on lumbar dorsal horn samples obtained from the same rats, which showed no significant decrease in calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactivity, whilst the dorsal horn content of neurokinin A was some 70% below control values.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Receptor autoradiography was used to localize and quantify the distribution of benzodiazepine receptor sites in human post mortem materials using [3H]flunitrazepam. The distribution and density of these sites was analysed in the brains of 21 patients dying without reported neurological disease. The distribution of benzodiazepine receptors in the human brain was found to be comparable from case to case although differences in the density occurred among the brains examined. No influence of the post mortem delay, age, gender or pre mortem drug treatment on the distribution and densities was observed in our series. The highest densities of benzodiazepine receptors in human brain were localized in cortical and hippocampal areas, nucleus accumbens, amygdala and mammillary bodies. Intermediate densities were found in the basal ganglia and thalamic and hypothalamic nuclei. [3H]Flunitrazepam binding was low in the brainstem nuclei and very low in white matter. The triazolopyridazine Cl 218872, reported to differentiate between type I and type II benzodiazepine receptor sites, exhibited regional differences in affinity when used to block [3H]flunitrazepam binding. Benzodiazepine receptors in the cerebellar cortex were more sensitive to this compound than those in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus and the tuberal nuclei of the hypothalamus. An enrichment in the concentration of type I benzodiazepine receptor Cl 218872-sensitive sites was observed in motor areas as compared to structures of the limbic system. The addition of GABA to the incubation medium resulted in an increase of [3H]flunitrazepam binding, suggesting the coupling of these sites to a GABAA receptor. The increase in binding was directly proportional to the density of benzodiazepine receptors but unrelated to the density of high-affinity GABAA sites. The distribution of benzodiazepine receptor sites in the human brain compares well with that previously described in the rat brain. The high densities of receptors localized in the limbic system and in the cortical areas suggest that the effects of benzodiazepines are mediated through an interaction with the sites we have visualized in these anatomical structures. Our results provide a detailed map of the distribution of benzodiazepine receptors and a basis for the understanding of pharmacological effects of these drugs in humans and for future studies of modifications of these receptors in neurological and neuropsychiatric conditions in humans.
Female mice which have mated and are subsequently exposed to the odour (pheromones) of a strange male undergo hormonal changes resulting in a block to their pregnancy. The fact that the stud male's odours can also block pregnancies, that is other than his own, implies the formation of a memory or some form of recognition process by the female for this male's pheromones at the time of mating. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of microinfusions of drugs which interfere with neural transmission, into the accessory olfactory bulbs. This was carried out immediately after mating over a 4-h period during which the &quot;memory&quot; to the stud male's pheromones is formed. Infusions of the alpha-blocker, phentolamine, blocked the formation of the olfactory memory, while the GABA receptor blocker, bicuculline, itself blocked pregnancy, but was without effect on memory formation. Protein synthesis inhibition or calpain inactivation in the accessory bulb was without effect on memory formation at any of the doses used. These studies demonstrate that GABAergic transmitter blockade in the accessory olfactory bulb at the time of mating can prevent subsequent blastocyst implantation some 3 days later, while alpha-noradrenergic blockade can prevent the formation of an olfactory memory to the stud male.
Transient increases and decreases in extracellular potassium (delta[K+]o) were recorded from the gray matter of hemisected, neonatal rat spinal cords isolated from 3, 4, 9- and 10-day-old pups. delta[K+]o were evoked in both the ventral and dorsal regions of the gray matter by electrical stimulation. In the ventral horn, repetitive stimulation of the ventral root was required to elicit detectable delta[K+]o. By contrast, single dorsal root stimuli evoked clear delta[K+]o. In the dorsal horn, single orthodromic stimuli elicited delta[K+]o as large as 4-5 mM from a baseline of 4.5 mM. With repetitive stimulation the [K+]o reached, but never exceeded, a ceiling of 10-11 mM. Undershoots were seen only after repetitive stimulation. Spontaneous delta[K+]o were observed in the ventral horn and were well correlated with ventral root activity. Spontaneous delta[K+]o were rare in the dorsal cord, but were recorded after bath application of apamin or tetraethylammonium. The magnitude and distribution of evoked K+ transients and postsynaptic components of the evoked field potential were well correlated in both the dorsal and the ventral gray matter. delta[K+]o were reversibly blocked by 1 mM CdCl2 in the bath and diminished by 1 mM BaCl2. Bath application of mephenesin, apamin or tetraethylammonium diminished evoked delta[K+]o in a stimulus-dependent manner. In apamin and tetraethylammonium, decreases from control responses were largest with high intensity stimulation, the opposite was the case with mephenesin. These results are interpreted in terms of the spinal circuits activated by high- and low-intensity electrical stimulation. We conclude that activity-related delta[K+]o in neonatal spinal cord are large enough to modulate neuronal electrical activity and the [K+]o is well regulated compared to other immature CNS regions studied. Thus, local increases in [K+]o may, by modulating neuronal activity, play a role in neonatal spinal cord developmental processes.
Numerous striatal neurons innervating the substantia nigra contain substance P and/or neurokinin A. In contrast to substance P or neurokinin A, little neurokinin B is found in the substantia nigra. This led us to compare the effects of nigral application of these tachykinins on the release of dopamine from dendrites and nerve terminals of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons. Experiments were made in halothane-anesthetized cats implanted with one push-pull cannula in the substantia nigra and another in the ipsilateral caudate nucleus [3H]Tyrosine was delivered continuously to each push-pull cannula and the release of newly synthesized [3H]dopamine measured in the superfusate. Unlike substance P or neurokinin A, neurokinin B (10(-8) M) applied for 30 min into the pars compacta of the substantia nigra was without effect on the release of [3H]dopamine from nerve terminals or dendrites. When either substance P (10(-8) M) or neurokinin A (10(-8) M) was applied into the pars compacta, the release of [3H]dopamine from nerve terminals was enhanced. While neurokinin A also stimulated the dendritic release of [3H]dopamine, this was reduced by substance P. At a lower concentration (10(-9) M), neurokinin A induced similar effects to those observed at 10(-8) M whereas substance P (10(-9) M) stimulated moderately [3H]dopamine release from nerve terminals but did not affect the dendritic release of the [3H]amine. When superfused into the pars reticulata, substance P (10(-8) M) still stimulated [3H]dopamine release from nerve terminals but not from dendrites while neurokinin A (10(-8) M) was without effect either in the caudate nucleus or the substantia nigra. Additional experiments were made to determine whether or not substance P (10(-8) M) or neurokinin A (10(-8) M) act directly on nigral dopaminergic neurons when applied into the pars compacta. The effects of substance P on [3H]dopamine release from nerve terminals and dendrites were prevented when 2-amino-6-trifluoromethoxy benzothiazole (10(-5) M), an antagonist of glutamatergic transmission, was applied continuously into the caudate nucleus. In contrast, the stimulatory effects of neurokinin A on [3H]dopamine release from nerve terminals and dendrites were insensitive to 2-amino-6-trifluoromethoxy benzothiazole (10(-5) M). These results suggest that neurokinin A, but not substance P, acts directly on dopaminergic cells. In the light of previous observations, we propose that the effects of substance P on dopaminergic transmission are mediated by a nigro-thalamo-cortico-striatal loop.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The mammalian tachykinins, substance P, substance K (neurokinin A) and neuromedin K (neurokinin B), are putative peptide neurotransmitters in both the brain and peripheral tissues. We used quantitative receptor autoradiography to localize and quantify the distribution of binding sites for radiolabeled substance P, substance K and neuromedin K in the canine gastrointestinal tract. Substance P binding sites were localized to smooth muscle cells in the muscularis mucosa and muscularis externa, the smooth muscle and endothelium of arterioles and venules, neurons in the myenteric plexus, mucosal epithelial cells, exocrine cells and lymph nodules. Substance K binding sites were distributed in a pattern distinct from substance P binding sites and were localized to smooth muscle cells in the muscularis mucosa and muscularis externa, the smooth muscle and endothelium of arterioles and venules, and neurons of the myenteric plexus. Neuromedin K binding sites were not observed in any area of the canine gastrointestinal tract although they were localized with high specific/non-specific binding ratios in the canine spinal cord. These results indicate that there are at least two distinct types of tachykinin receptor binding sites in the canine gastrointestinal tract, one of which probably recognizes substance P and the other substance K as endogenous ligands. In correlation with previous physiological data, these substance P and substance K receptor binding sites appear to be involved in the regulation of a variety of gastrointestinal functions including gastric motility, mucosal ion transport, hemodynamics, digestive enzyme secretion and neuronal excitability. In addition these results demonstrate that receptor binding sites for substance P and substance K are expressed by cells involved in mediating inflammatory and immune responses. These data, together with our studies on surgical specimens from patients with inflammatory bowel disease, suggest that in a pathophysiological state tachykinins and their receptors may play a role in inflammatory bowel disease and should permit a rational approach to designing neuropeptide antagonists which may prove effective in treating inflammatory diseases.

Somatostatin immunoreactivity was studied in the avian ciliary ganglion by immunocytochemistry and radioimmunoassay. Immunoreactivity was localized to small diameter cell bodies of neurons from embryos, newly-hatched and adult preparations. Immunostaining of ganglia with a mixture of antisera to substance P and monoclonal antibody to somatostatin indicated that a number of somatostatin-immunoreactive neurons were surrounded by substance P-immunoreactive boutons, which characteristically terminate on choroidal neurons. Staining with a mixture of antisera to choline acetyltransferase and antibody to somatostatin showed that the somatostatin-immunoreactive neurons were less intensely-stained for choline acetyltransferase than were the neurons lacking somatostatin immunoreactivity. Bundles of nerve fibers showing somatostatin and choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity were found in the choroid layers of the eye. Radioimmunoassay indicated the presence of somatostatin immunoreactivity in both chick and quail ganglia; the somatostatin immunoreactivity eluted from high pressure liquid chromatography in the same positions as authentic somatostatin 14 and 28. These results show that somatostatin is contained in cholinergic choroidal neurons in the chick and quail ciliary ganglion.
Secretory vesicles from bovine neurohypophysis were reconstituted into lipid bilayers. Electrical measurements on the lipid bilayers under voltage clamp demonstrated the presence of channels that are permeable to chloride ions, are blocked by 4,4'-diisothiocyanostilbene-2,2'-disulfonate, and are slightly voltage dependent. When several different membrane fractions were used for the reconstitution, the probability of finding channels correlated with the fraction of secretory vesicle membrane in the membrane fraction, indicating that the secretory vesicles are the source of the channels. The observed anion channel can provide a pathway for the anion transport that has previously been described for secretory vesicles. The secretory vesicle anion channel may play a role in calcium-induced secretion.
Carbamazepine has been utilized both as an anticonvulsant and as a psychotropic drug for the treatment of complex partial seizures and various mood and other emotional disorders such as the episodic dyscontrol syndrome. In the present study, we sought to identify the role of carbamazepine in the regulation of two forms of aggressive behavior--affective defense and quiet biting attack behavior--elicited by electrical stimulation of the midbrain periaqueductal gray matter of the cat in the absence of convulsive activity. The experimental paradigm involved establishment of stable baseline thresholds for affective defense and quiet biting attack responses. Following establishment of a stable baseline, carbamazepine (2.5, 5, or 10 mg/kg) and propylene glycol (vehicle control) were administered peripherally (IP). The response thresholds were tested 5-30, 30-60, 60-90, 120-150, 1440-1470, and 2160-2190 minutes following drug administration. It was observed that carbamazepine administration at 5 and 10 mg/kg dose levels preferentially suppressed affective defense behavior but had no effect upon quiet biting attack, indicating that the selective effects of carbamazepine upon affective attack are not due to any possible sedative effects upon motor responses. The effects of carbamazepine upon affective defense were dose dependent and of long duration when administered at the highest dose level (10 mg/kg).
Electrically evoked purine release from rat cerebral cortical slices was evaluated, using a HPLC analysis combined with radioactivity measurement of the identified fractions. Two different pools of released purines have been identified: one probably related to cell metabolism and the other strictly linked to the nervous transmission. Since a linear increase, due to the stimulation frequencies, was found for the purines released from this second pool, a possible dependence on sodium and calcium transmembrane fluxes was evaluated. Pretreatment of the slices with TTX (5 x 10(-7) M) caused only a partial inhibitory effect on purine release (50%). This effect was probably related to the drug activity on the neuronal component of slices, since TTX induces an almost complete inhibition of purine release from isolated neurons &quot;in cultures&quot; and does not affect it from glial cells. Verapamil (1 x 10(-4) M), a calcium-channel blocker at glial and neuronal level, and TEA (3 x 10(-2) M), a specific inhibitor of calcium-mediated potassium efflux from glial cells, administered to the slices alone or in combination, showed a partial calcium-dependence of purine release. These results suggest a glial role in modulation of electrically-evoked purine release. These cells could exert a &quot;buffering action&quot; that regulates the calcium-mediated potassium availability, by which neuronal activity might be influenced.
kappa opioid receptors (kappa receptors) have been characterized in homogenates of guinea pig and rat brain under in vitro binding conditions. kappa receptors were labeled by using the tritiated prototypic kappa opioid ethylketocyclazocine under conditions in which mu and delta opioid binding was suppressed. In the case of guinea pig brain membranes, a single population of high-affinity kappa opioid receptor sites (kappa sites; Kd = 0.66 nM, Bmax = 80 fmol/mg of protein) was observed. In contrast, in the case of rat brain, two populations of kappa sites were observed--high-affinity sites at low density (Kd = 1.0 nM, Bmax = 16 fmol/mg of protein) and low-affinity sites at high density (Kd = 13 nM, Bmax = 111 fmol/mg of protein). To test the hypothesis that the high- and low-affinity kappa sites represent two distinct kappa receptor subtypes, a series of opioids were tested for their abilities to compete for binding to the two sites. U-69,593 and Cambridge 20 selectively displaced the high-affinity kappa site in both guinea pig and rat tissue, but were inactive at the rat-brain low-affinity site. Other kappa opioid drugs, including U-50,488, ethylketocyclazocine, bremazocine, cyclazocine, and dynormphin (1-17), competed for binding to both sites, but with different rank orders of potency. Quantitative light microscopy in vitro autoradiography was used to visualize the neuroanatomical pattern of kappa receptors in rat and guinea pig brain. The distribution patterns of the two kappa receptor subtypes of rat brain were clearly different. The pattern of rat high-affinity kappa sites paralleled that of guinea pig in the caudate-putamen, mid-brain, central gray substance of cerebrum, and substantia nigra; interspecies differences were apparent throughout most of the rest of the brain. Collectively, these data provide direct evidence for the presence of two kappa receptor subtypes; the U-69,593-sensitive, high-affinity kappa 1 site predominates in guinea pig brain, and the U-69,593-insensitive, low-affinity kappa 2 site predominates in rat brain.
The ultrastructure of guinea-pig tracheal smooth muscle and its innervation were studied in control and antigen (ovalbumin) sensitized animals. There was a reduction in the frequency and in the proportion of membrane occupied by gap junctions in sensitized muscle. In addition, there was a decrease in the proportion of varicosities with small granular vesicles relative to other nerve varicosities and to the number of smooth muscle cells. Earlier functional studies in vitro (Mansour and Daniel, 1987) did not reveal altered function of adrenergic nerves or adrenoceptors concentration-response curves to a wide variety of agonists and showed few changes. These studies suggest that inflammatory mediators released during antigen-sensitization may regulate the density of gap junctions and influence nerve structure. These studies also suggest that procedures to evaluate directly cell-to-cell coupling and nerve function after sensitization are needed.
We have studied the possible involvement of the calcium- and phospholipid/diacylglycerol-dependent enzyme, protein kinase C (PKC) in mediating insulin action in the central nervous system (CNS) by testing the effect of direct activation or blockade of the CNS PKC system on the plasma glucose responses to central insulin injection in mice. Insulin (0.1-1 microgram), injected into the CNS, produced rapid transient hypoglycemia. This effect appeared to involve interaction of insulin with specific receptors, since insulin analogs exhibiting diminished receptor binding affinity and peripheral bioactivity compared to the native hormone were much less active (i.e., insulin much greater than acetyl 3 insulin greater than proinsulin greater than IGF-I) or not active at all (i.e., insulin chain A and chain B). Central injection of the specific PKC activator, 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) (0.01-0.5 microgram), but not the inactive TPA analog, 4-alpha-phorbol or the unstable synthetic diacylglycerol analog, 1-oleoyl-2-acetyl-sn-glycerol (OAG), significantly enhanced the hypoglycemic response to co-administered insulin (0.5 microgram) or the insulin derivative, acetyl 3 insulin (2.5 micrograms). Central TPA had no effect on basal glucose levels. Furthermore, central administration of the selective PKC blockers, polymyxin B (PMB, 1-25 micrograms) or 1-beta-galactosylsphingosine (psychosine, 0.5-10 micrograms) but not their respective inactive analogs, polymyxin E and sphingomyelin, strongly inhibited the hypoglycemic response to insulin (1 microgram) or acetyl 3 insulin (5 micrograms). PMB and psychosine, injected alone had no effect on basal glucose levels.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Proenkephalin mRNA shows a biphasic developmental profile in rat striatum, with an initial peak at postnatal day 2, a decline to embryonic levels by day 7, and a second increase to adult levels over the course of the second to 4th week after birth. The same 4-fold increase is seen in cultured striatal neurons, over the same time course but without a biphasic response. Cultured fetal glia also contain proenkephalin mRNA.
The application of muscarine, carbachol or methylfurmethide to the rat superior cervical ganglion in vitro resulted in a complex mixture of effects as recorded from the internal carotid nerve using a greased-gap technique. In addition to the previously described depolarizing and hyperpolarizing responses, increases and decreases in the amplitudes of the synaptically evoked compound action potential and its related afterhyperpolarization were observed. The depolarization and the enhancing effects of the agonists were selectively antagonized by pirenzepine (0.3 microM) whereas the hyperpolarization and depressant effects were antagonized by gallamine (10 microM). Methylfurmethide only induced the pirenzepine-sensitive effects. It is concluded that M1 and M2 (cardiac-like) receptors exert different effects on the synaptically evoked potentials of this preparation.
Anterogradely labeled terminals were found densely in field CA1, but not in any other field, of the hippocampal formation following injections of horseradish peroxidase into the ventral TE area of the inferotemporal cortex, whereas no label was seen in any field of the hippocampal formation following injections into the dorsal TE area. The labeled terminals were distributed mainly in a medial part of the stratum moleculare of field CA1 throughout its rostrocaudal extent. The present finding provides the first demonstration of direct projections from the inferotemporal cortex to the hippocampal formation.
A number of sulfated polysaccharides were tested for their ability to inhibit passively induced experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) in rats. Heparin and fucoidan both completely inhibited passive EAE even when treatment was begun 3 days after transfer of cells. Pentosan sulfate was partially inhibitory whereas chondroitin-4-sulfate had no effect. Inhibition was not merely due to killing of the cells since active sensitization 14 days after cell transfer resulted in an early onset of disease indicating the persistence of transferred cells as memory cells. Although all the inhibitory polysaccharides are anticoagulants, it would appear that this function alone is not the reason for inhibition since a heparin preparation devoid of anticoagulant activity also partially inhibited EAE. Actively induced EAE was also significantly delayed by treatment with heparin. The results are discussed in terms of the polysaccharides inhibiting the enzymatic dependent movement of lymphocytes across central nervous system vascular endothelium.

The three major prosomatostatin-derived peptides found within CNS neurons are a 28-amino acid peptide (SS28), a cyclic 14 amino acid peptide (SS14) and a 12 amino acid peptide (SS1-12). Immunohistochemical studies demonstrate a differential distribution of these related forms of somatostatin within CNS neurons and have led to the suggestion that SS1-12 may represent the predominant neurotransmitter form of this family of peptides. Intracellular recordings from CA1 pyramidal neurons in the in vitro rat hippocampal slice revealed that application of SS14 and SS28 in nanomolar concentration produced neuronal hyperpolarization; synaptic responses, recorded extracellularly, were also reduced. In contrast, we were unable to demonstrate a pre- or postsynaptic action of SS1-12 on these neurons. These results do not support the hypothesis that SS1-12 functions as a central neurotransmitter in area CA1 of the hippocampus.
The effect of an intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of the oxytocin antagonist, d(CH2)5Tyr(Me)-Orn8-vasotocin, on the copulatory behaviour of vigorous male rats in the presence of females in estrus was studied. The peptide (2.5, 25 and 50 ng, 15 min before mating tests) decreased the number of mounts and intromissions, and abolished ejaculation almost completely at all doses tested. The peptide failed to significantly influence motor activity at the doses used. The results support the hypothesis that central oxytocin plays a physiological role in the expression of copulatory behaviour.
The tetradecapeptide somatostatin produced dose-related neurological deficits following subarachnoid injection in the lumbar spinal cords of rats. Lower pharmacological doses (1.6 and 3.1 nmol, i.t.) of somatostatin caused only transient deficits, while higher doses (6.2-25 nmol, i.t.) caused persistent deficits characterized by motor and sensory impairments in hindlimbs and tail, hindlimb edema, priapism, bladder atony with infarction, and urinary incontinence. Pretreatment with 0.3 nmol of the somatostatin receptor antagonist cyclo[7-aminoheptanoyl-Phe-D-Trp-Lys-Thr(Bzl)] blocked the hindlimb paralytic effects of 3.1 and 6.2 nmol of somatostatin, and significantly improved neurological recovery injection of 12.5 nmol of somatostatin. Higher doses of the antagonist produced hindlimb paralysis by itself. Neuroanatomical evaluations revealed extensive cell loss and necrosis in the lumbosacral spinal cords of rats paralyzed by 25 nmol of somatostatin. Collectively, these results suggest that through interactions with a receptor, somatostatin destroys neurons involved in diverse spinal cord functions.
The major objective of the experiments reported in this paper was to test the hypothesis that the maximum distance that peripheral nervous system (PNS) axons can regenerate through a tubular prosthesis may be increased by specific modifications to the internal environment of the prosthesis. The sciatic nerve of adult male rats was transected and proximal and distal nerve stumps were sutured into a silicone tube 20-25 mm in length. The silicone tubes were implanted empty, or the lumen was filled with collagen or a laminin-containing gel. Following 4-16 weeks survival time animals were sacrificed and the contents of the silicone tubes were processed for histological identification of myelinated and unmyelinated axons. All of the tubes with additives, but one of the initially empty tubes, displayed a regenerated nerve cable within the tube. Retrograde labeling studies were carried out to prove that some of the axons present in the regenerated nerve cables arose from primary motor and sensory neurons. These results show that specific modifications to the microenvironment of regenerating PNS axons can affect the success or failure of tubular prostheses for nerve repair.
Fluorescent polystyrene microspheres have been used to mark rat astrocytes for transplantation. Highly fluorescent cells were generated by incorporation of microspheres over periods of the order of 10 h. Microspheres ranging in average diameter from 50 to 200 nm and derivatized with either rhodamine or fluorescein have been used to label cells. There were no apparent cytotoxic effects of microsphere incorporation. Loaded astrocytes retained their complement of microspheres over periods of at least several weeks. The microspheres could be visualized in the transmission electron microscope. They were most likely phagocytosed by a coated-pit mechanism and accumulated in various types of lysosomal vesicles. Labelled astrocytes from neonatal PVG rats were implanted stereotaxically (as a plasma clot) into hippocampi of recipient syngeneic adult rats. Donor cells migrated from transplant to host over about 7 days. Transplant cells tended to be close to blood vessels over this period. Their location in paravascular spaces was determined from observation of microsphere-bearing cells in electron microscopy. Microsphere-loading of astrocytes is a simple method for marking cells for extended periods of time for transplantation which allows direct identification of marked cells with both fluorescence and electron microscopes.
The monoclonal antibody, Alz 50, is known to label many dystrophic neurites and neurofibrillary tangles in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain. Using immunoprecipitation and immunoblotting, we have compared Alz 50 to monoclonal antibodies directed at two known components of neurofibrillary tangles, tau and ubiquitin, in order to characterize further the antigens recognized by Alz 50 in AD brain. Alz 50 labeled purified tau proteins in a highly similar fashion to two well-characterized tau monoclonal antibodies. Alz 50 precipitated proteins at the molecular weight of 50-70 kDa from AD but not normal brain; these proteins were reactive with the tau antibodies. In addition, Alz 50 precipitated proteins migrating principally around 160-180 kDa from AD but not normal brain; the relationship of the latter proteins to tau remains unclear. None of these proteins reacted with a ubiquitin antibody. We hypothesize that the proteins recognized by Alz 50 at much higher levers in AD than normal brain include modified and aggregated forms of tau.


A detailed characterization of the properties of the channel formed by tetanus toxin in planar lipid bilayers is presented. Channel formation proceeds at neutral pH. However, an acidic pH is required to detect the presence of channels in the membrane rapidly and effectively. Acid pH markedly lowers the single-channel conductance, for phosphatidylserine at 0.5 M KCl gamma = 89 pS at pH 7.0 while at pH 4.8, gamma = 30 pS. The toxin channel is cation selective without significant selectivity between potassium and sodium (gamma [K+]/gamma [Na+] greater than or equal to 1.35). In all the lipids studied gamma is larger at positive than at negative voltages. The toxin channel is voltage dependent both at neutral and acidic pH: for phosphatidylserine membranes, the probability of the channel being open is much greater at positive than at negative voltage. In different phospholipids the channel exhibits different voltage dependence. In phosphatidylserine membranes the channel is inactivated at negative voltages, whereas in diphytanoylphosphatidylcholine membranes channels are more active at negative voltages than at positive. The presence of acidic phospholipids in the bilayers increases both the single-channel conductance as well as the probability of the channel being open at positive voltage. A subconductance state is readily identifiable in the single-channel recordings. Accordingly, single-channel conductance histograms are best fitted with a sum of 3 Gaussian distributions corresponding to the closed state, the open subconductance state and the full open state. Channel activity occurs in bursts of openings separated by long closings. Probability density analysis of the open dwell times of the toxin channel indicate the existence of a single open state with a lifetime greater than or equal to 1 ms in all lipids studied. Analysis of intra-bursts closing lifetimes reveals the existence of two components; the slow component is of the order of 1 ms, the fast one is less than or equal to 0.5 ms. The channel activity induced by tetanus toxin in lipid bilayers suggests a mechanism for its neurotoxicity: a voltage dependent, cation selective channel inserted in the postsynaptic membrane would lead to continuous depolarization and, therefore, persistent activation of the postsynaptic cell.
1. Electrically evoked contractions of the rat anococcygeus muscle were inhibited in a concentration-dependent manner by somatostatin-14 (SS14), -28 (SS28) and two synthetic hexapeptide analogues: L-363,301 (Pro-Phe-D-Trp-Lys-Thr-Phe) and L-363,586 (N-Me-Ala-Tyr-D-Trp-Lys-Val-Phe), with pIC50 values of 7.41, 7.38, 7.07 and 8.34, respectively. 2. The inhibitory effects of SS14 were dependent on stimulation frequency and external calcium ion concentration. Calcium behaved as a non-competitive antagonist of SS14, it reduced the maximal inhibitory effect of the peptide and at a concentration of 5.08 mM it significantly affected the pIC50 value. 3. SS14 (3 x 10(-7) M) did not affect the tonic actions of bath-applied noradrenaline in the absence of field stimulation. 4. The effects of SS14 persisted in naloxone (10(-5) M) and were, therefore, not due to an action at opiate receptors. Furthermore, experiments involving the lyophilization of bath contents, showed no evidence to support an indirect mechanism involving the release of an endogenous inhibitory substance. 5. High concentrations (10(-5) M) of SS14 or L-363,301 inhibited the relaxation response evoked by electrical stimulation of guanethidine (3 x 10(-4) M)-treated preparations. 6. These results are consistent with similar actions of SS14 on other smooth muscle preparations and are presumed to reflect a presynaptic inhibition of transmitter release by a direct action on somatostatin receptors. The antagonistic effect of calcium on this response is discussed with reference to a possible role in receptor desensitization.
Bradykinin analogues with specific antagonist activity in several bioassays were evaluated for effects on [3H]-bradykinin receptor binding sites and inositol phosphate production in neuroblastoma N1E-115 cells. The analogues varied in their affinities for bradykinin receptors in guinea-pig ileum and N1E-115 cell membranes, in their effects on uterine and ileal contractions and in their agonist or antagonist activity on phosphoinositide turnover in N1E-115 cells. These tissue specific effects suggest the presence of multiple bradykinin receptor subtypes.
1. Ca currents in rat and mouse sensory dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurones were inhibited by concentrations of (-)-baclofen as low as 1 micron. The proportion of neurones responding to baclofen was low (less than 20%), except in young cultures of neonate rat DRG neurones (3 days in culture), where 86% of the neurones were responsive. 2. Three types of unitary Ca currents were observed in the rat DRG neurones, corresponding to the T-, N- and L-type currents of chick DRG neurones. 3. Baclofen produced two types of response on whole-cell currents of DRG neurones from both species. The first was on an early inactivating component of the Ca current. This early current was partially inactivated at a holding potential of -40 mV. It was also reduced during the second of a pair of depolarizing command pulses. The results suggest that this action of baclofen is due to an action on an N-type component of the current. The second response to baclofen persisted throughout the command step and was not reduced during the second of a pair of command pulses, indicating that this effect is due to an action on the L-type current. 4. Unitary or ensemble Ca currents recorded in cell-attached patches, on neurones previously shown to respond to baclofen in whole-cell clamp mode, were generally not inhibited by baclofen application external to the patch electrode. This indicates that a readily diffusible internal second messenger substance is probably not involved in coupling the GABAB receptor to the ion channels.
Using a combination of in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry, the development of somatostatin (SS)-containing neurons and fibers was examined in the rat dorsal hippocampus and dentate gyrus. The major development of this hippocampal peptidergic system occurs postnatally. At postnatal day 1 (P1), neurons containing SS mRNA are evident primarily in the stratum oriens, but also in the hilus of the dentate gyrus. Similar neurons are also immunoreactive for SS28 and SS28(1-12), suggesting a minimal lag in the transcription of SS mRNA and its translation into specific SS peptides. The number of SS neurons increases postnatally to P10, followed by a decrease in number in the adult. This transient change in the number of SS neurons coincides with dramatic changes in SS28(1-12)-immunoreactive fibers, which are initially present in the stratum lacunosum moleculare, with no significant immunoreactivity in the dentate gyrus. By P15, the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus is densely innervated, while similar immunoreactivity in the stratum lacunosum moleculare is greatly reduced. These data are consistent with a transient projection from the stratum oriens to the stratum lacunosum moleculare, which is replaced by a projection from the hilus to the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus as this structure matures.
Plasma and brain levels of the dopamine metabolite, homovanillic acid, were measured in rats after acute and chronic treatment with fluphenazine. After acute administration, homovanillic acid levels were increased in the whole frontal cortex, caudate nucleus, nucleus accumbens, anterior cingulate (supragenual) cortex, prefrontal cortex and plasma. Following chronic administration, the effects of single doses of fluphenazine in increasing homovanillic acid were markedly attenuated in the caudate nucleus, nucleus accumbens, the whole frontal cortex, anterior cigulate cortex and plasma, but not in the prefrontal (anteromedial) cortex. Following fluphenazine administration plasma homovanillic acid levels were correlated with homovanillic acid concentrations in whole frontal cortex (r = 0.63, p less than 0.01) and caudate nucleus (r = 0.51, p less than 0.05). Further, prior intracerebroventricular administration of 6-hydroxydopamine prevented the fluphenazine-induced increase in plasma homovanillic acid. These data suggest that in the rat, plasma and brain (caudate nucleus and whole frontal cortex) homovanillic acid levels change in a similar fashion during acute and chronic neuroleptic administration.
We have studied 11 patients with neurological deficits due to the pandemic of encephalitis lethargica, all of whom had remained in hospital for more than forty years. Retrospective information obtained from physicians and nurses dating back as far as 1931, our own Webster and Northwestern University Disability Rating Scales available from 1976, photographic records, published narrative and hospital charts all indicate that neurological disabilities attributable to basal ganglia damage frequently increase in late life. Deterioration was most marked in motor function and largely spared the intellect, special senses and somatosensory system. The findings are discussed in relation to current hypotheses concerning the aetiology of Parkinson's disease.
This review summarizes the range of possible mechanisms of action of neuronal grafts in the central nervous system. It aims to illustrate the capacity and limitations of the transplanted tissue in the promotion of neurological recovery after experimental surgical insults.
Assumptions regarding increased risk of dementia in Parkinson's disease and of depression mimicking the endogenous form are reviewed and challenged from the perspectives of recent findings in both the neuropsychological and anatomical domains. Evidence suggests that depression, while frequent, behaviourally resembles the reactive variety and that selective impairment of cognitive functions considered to depend upon the integrity of the frontal lobes accompanies this disorder. In this regard, it is speculated that the cognitive alterations seen in non-demented parkinson patients are the consequences of dysfunction of the caudate nucleus which contributes significantly to the normal activities processed through the frontostriate &quot;complex loop&quot;.
The dendrites of granule cells in hippocampal slices responded to gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) with a depolarization. The response was blocked by picrotoxin in a noncompetitive manner. Reductions in the extracellular chloride ion concentration changed the reversal potential of the response by an amount predicted from the Nernst equation for chloride ion. Chloride-dependent hyperpolarizing responses were sometimes also found in the cell body of the granule cells. Since the reversal potential followed that predicted from the Nernst equation for chloride, we conclude that the response was mediated by chloride ions alone with no contribution from other ions. This has not previously been shown for the depolarizing response to GABA in central neurons.
Partial trisomy 6p with duplications ranging from 6p21 to 6p25-pter is emerging as an established syndrome. We report a case of duplication of 6p (6p23-pter) and deletion of 2q37-qter. Features characteristic of 6p partial trisomy present in the patient are low birthweight, and mental and developmental retardation. Major facial features include prominent forehead, flat occiput, multiple ocular abnormalities, low-set ears, prominent nasal bridge, long philtrum and small pointed mouth. Repeated examinations of the patient from birth to the age of over 5 years revealed that he has infantile autism. Since autistic children are generally not associated with chromosome anomalies, in view of the present case, it is suggested that karyotypic analysis be considered for such children. Where possible, extended study for autism in 6p trisomic children may also be desirable.
A male patient is reported with a mutation of acid alpha-glucosidase causing an altered Km toward natural substrates. Cardiac arrhythmia was found at 12 years of age, and he died of heart failure at 15 years. No skeletal muscle involvement was observed either clinically or histologically. Acid alpha-glucosidase activity in fibroblasts was moderately low (43% of the control mean) with normal Km for 4-methylumbelliferyl alpha-D-glucoside. The hydrolysis of glycogen was markedly decreased (14% of the control mean), and the Km for maltose was increased 4-fold and for glycogen 5-fold. The biosynthesis and the posttranslational processing of the mutant enzyme appeared normal, but the total amount of the enzyme was lower than normal. This mutant enzyme comigrated with normal acid alpha-glucosidase on starch gel electrophoresis, and not with the rare isozyme, acid alpha-glucosidase 2. A possible role of this mutant enzyme in the pathogenesis of this disease and the relationship to glycogenesis II are discussed.
Neuronal retrograde transport of nerve growth factor (NGF) was examined in chick embryos at 5, 6, and 7 days of incubation. Radiolabeled NGF was injected in the target limb muscle and the retrograde transport was viewed following processing for autoradiography. Silver grains were localized in the peripheral nerve, in the ventral root, in neuronal cell bodies within the dorsal root ganglion, and in motoneurons of the lateral motor column. Comparable injections of 125I-cytochrome c resulted in the presence of label at the peripheral injection site only. The possible developmental significance of these observations is discussed.
In the ventral hindbrain and spinal cord of zebrafish embryos, the first neurones that can be identified appear as single cells or small clusters of cells, distributed periodically at intervals equal to the length of a somite. In the hindbrain, a series of neuromeres of corresponding length is present, and the earliest neurones are located in the centres of each neuromere. Young neurones within both the hindbrain and spinal cord were identified in live embryos using Nomarski optics, and histochemically by labelling for acetylcholinesterase activity and expression of an antigen recognized by the monoclonal antibody zn-1. Among them are individually identified hindbrain reticulospinal neurones and spinal motoneurones. These observations suggest that early development in these regions of the CNS reflects a common segmental pattern. Subsequently, as more neurones differentiate, the initially similar patterning of the cells in these two regions diverges. A continuous longitudinal column of developing neurones appears in the spinal cord, whereas an alternating series of large and small clusters of neurones is present in the hindbrain.
The term 'psychopharmacology' was coined as early as 1920, by David Macht, but it was not until three decades later that the discipline started to develop in a substantial way. The fortuitous discovery of the first antipsychotics and antidepressants, in the 1950s, presented new horizons and gave impetus to the study of drug treatments in psychiatry. In the 1980s, advances in the basic neurosciences, and especially in the characterisation of neurotransmitter receptors, are presenting new opportunities for understanding the biology of mental illness and for designing new drug treatments. This article reviews the evidence linking the action of antidepressant drugs to the regulation of neurotransmitter receptors. We then show how this information has led to a pharmacologic model (melatonin secretion by the human pineal) for the study of antidepressants in depressed patients. Finally, we outline how pharmacologic exploitation of neurotransmitter receptors might lead to new approaches for the design of novel antidepressant drugs.
While 80% of patients who develop epilepsy will enter prolonged remissions with drug therapy, there is no agreement about who can safely be withdrawn from treatment without the risk of relapse. In light of the fact that seizure recurrence often has very important social implications, the final decision about drug withdrawal must be made by the patient and their family after full consultation with their physician about possible risks and benefits.
Two neutral alpha-glucosidase isoenzymes were isolated from the muscle of Japanese quails with late-onset acid maltase deficiency. One isoenzyme is predominantly expressed in embryonic muscle and the other in adult muscle. The time of switching from one to the other of these two neutral alpha-glucosidases was the same as in normal birds. The glycogen content in acid maltase-deficient muscle was not inversely proportional to the amount of embryonic neutral alpha-glucosidase. From the results, we conclude that (i) the transition of neutral alpha-glucosidase from the embryonic to the adult type is not influenced by the disease, and (ii) the embryonic neutral alpha-glucosidase seems not to be directly correlated with glycogen storage in skeletal muscle. In acid maltase-deficient muscle, the activity of the embryonic type began to increase again from 14 days after hatching, and attained a level corresponding to 18% of the total neutral alpha-glucosidase activity at 3 months (P less than 0.025). Its biochemical characteristics were the same as those of the normal embryonic neutral alpha-glucosidase. It should be clarified why the reappearance of the normal embryonic type occurs in acid maltase-deficient adult muscle and whether or not the reappearance of the embryonic neutral alpha-glucosidase represents regenerating muscle.


Bleeding time, platelet aggregation and platelet adhesiveness were measured before and after each of 11 consecutive therapeutic sequences in 17 patients who had recently suffered a cerebro-vascular accident of atheromatous ischemic origin. The first 10 sequences were each of 15 days duration and during the first 8 of these, aspirin was increased with each sequence from 300 mg/2 days to 3 g/day. During the 10th sequence a placebo was given. The final sequence (11th) lasted 3 months and during this time the dose of aspirin was fixed at 1 g/day. Significant modification of platelet aggregation was obtained with 300 mg/2 days, platelet adhesiveness was significantly modified with 500 mg/2 days while significant bleeding time modification required a minimum 500 mg/day. The results did not vary significantly with higher doses of acetylsalicylic acid (ASA). Only the results for the platelet aggregation were individually reproducible. There was no statistical correlation between the results of the tests. As far as the 3 tests are considered, the best efficiency is obtained with the therapeutic range of 500 mg to 1 g/day.
The EEG is modelled as the superposition of two component processes: the xi and the alpha processes. In the frequency domain, the xi process is always present and appears as a spectral peak with maximum amplitude at very low frequencies, while the alpha process is characterized by a spectral peak with its maximum located in the traditional alpha band (7-13 Hz), and is not necessarily always present. The multivariate properties of EEG spectra are adequately modelled with frequency independent coherence matrices for each process. Multichannel EEG studies reveal interesting properties: (1) the generalized coherence for alpha is much larger than for xi, indicating increased functional coupling for the alpha process; (2) the alpha coherence matrix has reduced dimensionality, possibly related to a small number of generators; (3) xi coherences are zero phase with magnitudes that decrease exponentially with interelectrode distance; and (4) alpha coherences have significant nonzero phase shifts.
Plasma levels of the dopamine metabolite homovanillic acid (HVA) were examined in depressed patients and controls. There were no significant differences between the groups. In particular, there were no significant differences for plasma HVA levels between depressed patients with and without melancholia or between depressed patients who were cortisol nonsuppressors or suppressors.
The dexamethasone suppression test was performed in 63 depressed patients and 43 normal controls. Cortisol nonsuppression was found in 47.6% of the depressed patients and 4.6% of the controls. Among depressed patients both age and reported weight loss, but not severity of depression, were significantly related to postdexamethasone plasma cortisol levels. Patients who were cortisol suppressors had experienced significantly more life events before the onset of depression and had significantly higher hostility scores on a personality questionnaire than cortisol nonsuppressors.
The objective of this study is to determine which inflammatory mediators had direct effects on canine trachealis muscle neuromuscular control to identify candidate mediators of the hyperresponsiveness observed in vitro after O3 exposure. Studies were carried out in the sucrose gap at 29 degrees C and in the muscle bath at 37 degrees C. Leukotriene (LT) B4, LTD4, and prostaglandin (PG) D2 had neither direct nor significant effects on the excitatory junction potentials (EJP's), the secondary membrane potential oscillations, or the associated contractions that followed field stimulation of cholinergic nerves. U 46619, a stable analogue of thromboxane (Tx) A2, enhanced (10(-10)-10(-7) M) the duration and the amplitude of secondary oscillations and associated contractions without affecting the EJP's. In the muscle bath, U 46619 enhanced field-stimulated contractions; this was antagonized competitively by SQ 29548. In both the sucrose gap and the muscle bath, higher concentrations (10(-9) M and higher) caused direct effects, small depolarizations, and contractions. These effects of U 46619 were unaffected by indomethacin or guanethidine but were abolished by SQ 29548, an antagonist selective at TxA2-PGH2 receptors. U 46619 at 10(-9) M did not affect electrical or mechanical responses to acetylcholine and at 10(-9) M did not increase the sensitivity to acetylcholine. Platelet-activating factor (PAF) was inactive in all muscle-bath and most sucrose-gap experiments. In 7 of 20 of the latter, it caused effects qualitatively like those of U 46619, but whether it acted through release of TxA2 could not be tested because of the rapid tachyphylaxis to PAF. We conclude that TxA2 may mediate the hyperresponsiveness found in vitro after O3 treatment.
cAMP and cGMP had distinct effects on the regulation of ciliary motility in Paramecium. Using detergent-permeabilized cells reactivated to swim with MgATP, we observed effects of cyclic nucleotides and interactions with Ca2+ on the swimming speed and direction of reactivated cells. Both cAMP and cGMP increased forward swimming speed two- to threefold with similar half-maximal concentrations near 0.5 microM. The two cyclic nucleotides, however, had different effects in antagonism with the Ca2+ response of backward swimming and on the handedness of the helical swimming paths of reactivated cells. These results suggest that cAMP and cGMP differentially regulate the direction of the ciliary power stroke.
The spiracular sense organs of the little skate, Raja erinacea, and the smooth dogfish, Mustelus canis, respond to movements of the hyomandibula-cranial joint. Afferent activity was recorded from the spiracular organ nerve in isolated preparations consisting of at least part of the cranium, the hyomandibula, and the spiracular organ and nerve. Afferents are excited by hyomandibular flexion at its joint with the cranium. Single unit recordings in the little skate revealed a single class of units that were slowly adapting, and had a regular firing pattern. Single unit firing rate increased up to about 70 spikes/s during hyomandibular flexion from a spontaneous rate at rest of 15-20 spikes/s, and could often be silenced by hyomandibular extension. The direction of excitation is consistent with the orientation of the hair cell ciliary bundles observed in morphological studies (Barry et al. 1988). Local deformations of the cupula are sufficient to excite or inhibit primary afferent firing, and volume changes in the spiracular organ as a whole are not necessary. The spiracular organs are relatively insensitive to electrical stimuli, vibration, or water movement. In conclusion, the spiracular organ functions as a sensitive joint receptor.
The spiracular organ is a lateral line derived receptor associated with the first gill cleft (spiracle). Its functional morphology was studied in the little skate, Raja erinacea, and a shark, the smooth dogfish, Mustelus canis, with light and electron microscopy. The spiracular organ is a tube (skate) or pouch (shark) with a single pore opening into the spiracle. The lumen is lined with patches of sensory hair cells, and filled with a gelatinous cupula. In the little skate, hair cells form synapses with afferents but apparently not with efferent fibers. In both species, the spiracular organs are deformed by flexion of the hyomandibular cartilage at its articulation with the cranium. The hyomandibula is a suspensory element of the jaws; hyomandibular flexion results in jaw protrusion. The little skate spiracular organ is anchored at one end to the cranium and at the other to the hyomandibula so that it is stretched or relaxed during hyomandibular extension and flexion, respectively. In Mustelus, the effects of hyomandibular flexion on the spiracular organ are mediated indirectly by the superior post-spiracular ligament which inserts on the distal end of the hyomandibula. Deformation of the dogfish shark cupula during hyomandibular movement was observed. In the little skate, as revealed by transmission electron microscopy, there is a measurable deflection of the hair cell ciliary bundles from spiracular organs fixed with the hyomandibula in the flexed relative to the extended positions. In both species, hyomandibula flexion should result in hair cell depolarization, and sensory afferent excitation, based on the direction of the observed (skate) or expected (shark) deflection of hair cell cilia.
The visual pigments of four mesopelagic crustacean species were studied at sea by means of microspectrophotometry. The absorbance maxima obtained for the visual pigments and their metarhodopsins, respectively, were: 493 nm and 481 nm (Systellaspis debilis), 485 nm and 480 nm (Acanthephyra curtirostris), 491 nm and 482 nm (A. smithi), and 495 nm and 487 nm (Sergestes tenuiremis). The spectral characteristics of the rhodopsins and metarhodopsins permit high photosensitivity and facilitate photoregeneration in a nearly monochromatic environment. Photic regeneration of rhodopsins from the deep-sea environment was demonstrated, and data were obtained which are consistent with the occurrence of dark regeneration. Specific optical density of the observed visual pigments was calculated for two species.
Pigeons possess a binocular visual field and a retinal region of higher cellular density pointing to the center of this overlap. These features and the precision of pecking behavior suggest that in this lateral-eyed bird cues other than monocular ones might participate in depth judgements. Pigeons were trained with an operant procedure to discriminate between luminous points differing in depth which appeared to the observer as floating in the dark. The accuracy of depth judgements was found to be a function of the ratio between the interstimulus distance and the mean eyes-to-stimulus distance. In a first test (experiment I) no external binocular disparity cues were available, the animal only seeing one luminous point at a time (near or far). In a second test (experiment II) where binocular disparity cues were available, the animal having this time to discriminate a pair of points placed at equal depth from a pair placed at unequal depths, only one pair being visible at a time, depth resolution did not improve. This suggests that, at least within the range of distances explored, the pigeon has no stereoscopic vision. Notwithstanding this, binocular cues do play a role, since when tests were done comparing binocular with monocular viewing (experiment III), monocular depth resolution was significantly worse.
A calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase was isolated from retina. The retinal enzyme is composed exclusively of 50-kilodalton (kD) subunits and has a molecular mass of approximately 275 kD, in contrast to forebrain calmodulin kinase II, which is composed of 50-kD and 60-kD subunits in a 3:1 ratio and has a molecular mass of approximately 520 kD. Similar substrate specificities, kinetic properties, capacity to bind calmodulin, and immunoreactivity suggest that the retinal kinase is an isoenzyme of forebrain calmodulin kinase II. Both kinases autophosphorylate in an intramolecular manner; however, autophosphorylation has different effects on the activities of the two enzymes. Autophosphorylation of retinal calmodulin kinase converts the enzyme from a calcium/calmodulin-dependent to a calcium/calmodulin-inhibited kinase, with high activity in the absence of calcium, whereas autophosphorylation of the forebrain kinase results in a less active, calcium/calmodulin-independent enzyme. These properties of calmodulin kinase may play an important role in retinal function.
We have shown previously that unoccupied type I receptors for adrenal steroids in brain cytosol lose their capacity to bind [3H]aldosterone ([3H]ALDO) in a time- and temperature-dependent manner. Based on reports that sugars and polyvalent alcohols are capable of stabilizing a variety of globular proteins, we attempted in the present study to stabilize type I receptors by including polyhydric compounds in our brain cytosol preparations. However, contrary to expectations, adjusting cytosol to a 10% (g/dl) concentration of ethylene glycol, glycerol, erythritol, xylitol, ribitol, or sorbitol failed to stabilize these receptors at 0 degree C and in fact produced a slight reduction in [3H]ALDO binding capacity. The magnitude of this reduction was greater when cytosol was incubated for 2 h at 22 degrees C prior to incubation with [3H]ALDO. In contrast to these results, when brain cytosol was adjusted to a 10% (g/dl) concentration of the monohydric compound, ethanol, a significant increase in [3H]ALDO binding to type I receptors was found. Under identical conditions, methanol and propanol failed to have a significant effect on the binding capacity of these receptors. When cytosol was aged for 2 h at 22 degrees C, all three of these monohydric compounds produced a marked loss in the [3H]ALDO binding capacity of type I receptors. An investigation of various doses of ethanol at 0 degree C on the subsequent binding of [3H]ALDO yielded an inverse U-shaped curve with 10% ethanol producing the highest level of specific binding, as reflected by an increase in maximal binding in Scatchard plots, and 40% ethanol producing a complete loss in type I receptor binding capacity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A number of different approaches to the study of functional neurochemistry in human brain are discussed. The advantages and disadvantages of three main techniques are contrasted: (i) using animal tissue preparations as models of the human brain; (ii) using human peripheral tissue preparations as models of dynamic CNS processes; and (iii) studying human tissue, obtained postmortem, directly. Animal models are often readily obtained and reliable, and the high degree of inbreeding of common laboratory animals ensures that they usually yield consistent results. However, there are a number of human disorders for which animal models are either poor or unavailable, and species differences make extrapolation from the animal to the human case difficult. Human peripheral tissue models rely on a degree of homology between peripheral and CNS processes; in most cases, the evidence for such homologies derives from animal, rather than human, studies. Moreover, several examples are known where a peripheral process mimics the equivalent glial cell activity more closely than the neuronal, which can be a serious drawback for studies of neurotransmission. The use of postmortem human brain tissue presents a number of obvious difficulties, resulting from variations in the patient's age, agonal state, sex, preterminal medication, postmortem delay, etc. Human beings are genetically and nutritionally heterogeneous, so that data variability is usually greater here than when using tissue from laboratory animals. However, it is possible to control for a number of these factors, for example, by matching samples for basal metabolic rate and tissue integrity, and recently developed tissue freezing and storage techniques permit the use of within-subject experimental designs to help reduce experimental variation. A range of neurotransmitter functions are well retained in such tissue samples, so that regional variations, differential transmitter activities, drug effects, etc., can be studied in normal tissue samples, as well as in samples taken from cases of neurological and psychiatric disease. This allows, for example, changes in neuroanatomical indices to be correlated with localised alterations in a specific neurotransmitter function. A systematic approach to the analysis and matching of tissue samples is advocated. The three approaches should be considered to be complementary, especially for the study of human brain diseases.
The characteristics of [3H]strychnine and t-[35S]-butylbicyclophosphorothionate ([35S]TBPS) binding to sites associated with glycine- and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-gated chloride channels were compared in the presence of a series of anions with known permeabilities through these channels. Good correlations were found between (a) the potencies (EC50) of these anions to stimulate radioligand binding and their permeabilities relative to chloride; (b) the affinities (KD) of these radioligands in the presence of fixed concentrations of these anions and their relative permeabilities; (c) the potencies (EC50) of these anions to stimulate [35S]TBPS and [3H]strychnine binding; and (d) the affinities (KD) of [3H]strychnine and [35S]TBPS measured at a fixed concentration of these anions. These studies support electrophysiological and biochemical observations demonstrating similarities between glycine- and GABA-gated chloride channels, and suggest that anions enhance [3H]strychnine and [35S]TBPS binding through specific anion binding sites located at the channels.
The rat CNS contains high levels of tyrosine-specific protein kinases that specifically phosphorylate the tyrosine-containing synthetic peptide poly(Glu80,Tyr20). The phosphorylation of this peptide is rapid and occurs with normal Michaelis-Menten kinetics. Using this peptide to assay for enzyme activity, we have measured the protein tyrosine kinase activity in homogenates from various regions of rat CNS. A marked regional distribution pattern was observed, with high activity present in cerebellum, hippocampus, olfactory bulb, and pyriform cortex, and low activity in the pons/medulla and spinal cord. The distribution of protein tyrosine kinase activity was examined in various subcellular fractions of rat forebrain. The majority of the activity was associated with the particulate fractions, with enrichment in the crude microsomal (P3) and crude synaptic vesicle (LP2) fractions. Moreover, the subcellular distribution of pp60csrc, a well-characterized protein tyrosine kinase, was examined by immunoblot analysis using an affinity-purified antibody specific for pp60csrc. The subcellular distribution of pp60csrc paralleled the overall protein tyrosine kinase activity. In addition, using an antibody specific for phosphotyrosine, endogenous substrates for protein tyrosine kinases were demonstrated on immunoblots of homogenates from the various regions and the subcellular fractions. The immunoblots revealed numerous phosphotyrosine-containing proteins that were present in many of the CNS regions examined and were associated with specific subcellular fractions. The differences in tyrosine-specific protein kinase activity, and in phosphotyrosine-containing proteins, observed in various regional areas and subcellular fractions may reflect specific functional roles for protein tyrosine kinase activity in mammalian brain.
The suppressive effect of anti-L3T4 monoclonal antibody (mAb) on murine experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) induced by sensitization with proteolipid apoprotein (PLP) was examined in vivo and in vitro. This mAb inhibited the antigen-specific proliferation of the encephalitogenic T cell lines but did not block the mitogen-mediated response. Serial injections of the mAb during the pre-effector phase of EAE markedly suppressed the development and relapse of the disease but this treatment initiated after appearance of clinical signs was not effective. In treated animals, L3T4+ T cells in the spleen were profoundly decreased and the antigen-specific proliferative response of spleen cells was completely suppressed. Moreover, adoptive transfer of spleen cells from the treated mice induced resistance against EAE induction in the recipients. However, no obvious evidence for antigen-specific suppressor cells was found in vitro in the L3T4- populations of spleen cells from treated mice.
Event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded from 19 closed head injury (CHI) patients, at least 6 months after injury, and an equal number of control subjects, during a task requiring the covert counting of rare auditory &quot;target&quot; stimuli against a background of frequent &quot;non-targets&quot;. In both groups, ERPs to targets contained enhanced frontal N2 and parietal P3 components. N2 was larger in amplitude in the CHI patients than in the controls, and its peak latency was delayed. P3 amplitude was smaller in the patients, but its latency was not significantly different from that of the control group. The delay in N2 latency is interpreted as evidence of an increase in the time needed to achieve stimulus categorisation in CHI patients. The larger N2s in this group are thought to reflect the additional cognitive effort required after CHI to cope with the task. The negative findings with respect to P3 latency suggest that this may be a less sensitive measure of information-processing efficiency in this task than the latency of N2.
Etiology and source of amyloid deposition in senile plaques of Alzheimer's disease (AD) are still unknown. In order to know whether or not fibronectin (Fn), an adhesive glycoprotein, is related to the amyloid deposition in the senile plaque, we conducted immunohistochemical studies using polyclonal anti-Fn and affinity-purified anti-amyloid component (Affi 28). Affi 28 was made by immunizing a rabbit against the synthetic peptide corresponding to residues 1-28 of the amyloid core protein reported by Masters et al. (1985). According to this study, four points became clear. First, Affi 28 is able to stain the subpial regions of AD as well as cerebrovascular amyloid and amyloid plaque cores. Second, it is suggested either that the etiology and source of neurofibrillary tangles and Pick body is distinct from that of the senile plaque or that any Affi 28 determinants of neurofibrillary tangles and Pick body are obscured sterically. Third, Affi 28 is useful to distinguish the senile plaque from the amyloid plaque of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. Last, there is no association between the amyloid in the senile plaque and Fn, at least immunohistochemically. The absence of Fn in the senile plaque suggests that Fn may not be requested for the deposition of amyloid fibrils.
Properties of electrotonic synapses between L14 neurons in the abdominal ganglion of the marine mollusc Aplysia californica were examined in situ and between unidentified buccal neurons maintained in tissue culture. In culture, depolarizing postsynaptic potentials in response to a train of action potentials showed apparent facilitation with increasing spike number, which was attributable to the low-pass filter properties of electrotonic transmission via gap junctions and to network properties. Gap junctional conductance (gj), calculated from current-clamp data or measured directly under voltage clamp, indicated no significant dependence of gj on transjunctional or inside-outside potential in situ or in culture. Octanol, a local anesthetic agent that reduces gj in many other systems, had no effect on gj between Aplysia neurons. The effect of intracellular acidification, a treatment that rapidly and reversibly uncouples a variety of cell types, reduced gj between Aplysia neurons but did not completely abolish it. The relationship between intracellular pH (pHi), measured with ion-sensitive microelectrodes, and gj was steeper in cultured neurons than in situ and was maximally reduced by 70-80%, as compared to 50% or less in situ at the lowest pHi values tested. The coupling coefficient (k) was reduced less by low pHi than was gj, which could be explained by a simultaneous increase in nonjunctional membrane resistance. Permeability properties of Aplysia electrotonic synapses to a variety of tracer molecules were also examined between identified L 14 neurons in situ and in dissociated buccal, abdominal, and bag neurons in culture. The fluorescent dyes Lucifer yellow, 6-carboxyfluorescein, and dichlorofluorescein (1.2-1.4 nm maximal diameters) did not spread detectably from an injected neuron to its electrically coupled neighbors, regardless of the strength of electrotonic coupling. However, the smaller tetraalkylammonium ions TMA and TEA (diameters 0.66 and 0.8 nm, concentrations measured with ion-selective electrodes), could be detected in neighboring cells within minutes. In culture, transfer of the tetraalkylammonium ions was slow and not easily detectable in cell pairs where gj was low (less than 20 nS). The permeability was as high as 10(-10) cm3/sec in situ and 10(-12) cm3/sec in culture, and values were roughly correlated with simultaneously measured values of gj. Electrotonic synapses in the nervous system of Aplysia, therefore, have a quantitatively different spectrum of sensitivities than has been found for gap junctions of other systems and appear to possess reduced permeability to tracer molecules.
A group of mains-powered circuits is described for constant-current stimulation of neuronal tissue. The circuits are linear in form and can be used for sine wave, ramp, or pulse stimulation. Both quasi-isolated and fully-isolated circuits are described.
A multistage dynamic flow dilution olfactometer allowing the delivery of precisely controlled stimuli over a wide concentration range is presented. Discrete concentration values, in the range 10(-6) to 5.6 X 10(-2) of the saturated vapor of an odorous compound, are obtained from two original concentration by combining 4 dilution stages. Short stimulus pulses, of a known and reproducible concentration and with short rising and falling times, are sampled from steady concentration levels. A programmable controller manages the olfactometer dilution stage selection, the odor stimulus switch and starts the peripheral devices required by the experiment. The programming of olfactometer function makes it an extremely flexible system for various experimental projects in olfaction.
Pharmacokinetic parameters of human lymphoblastoid interferon (IFN-alpha) delivery to normal rat brain were examined. IFN-alpha concentrations in brain parenchyma could only be detected 120 min after its intravascular administration, and were 0.003% per gram of the administered dose. The mean cerebrovascular permeability-surface area (permeability x surface area) product to IFN, 120 min after infusion, was 0.35 x 10(-6) sec-1, which is not significantly different from zero. Neither i.v. nor intracarotid IFN-alpha administration significantly affected delivery to brain. Intrathecal administration of IFN-alpha, via the cisterna magna, resulted in undetectable concentrations in brain tissue and plasma at 30 and 60 min. However, osmotic blood-brain barrier opening significantly increased IFN-alpha delivery to brain after its carotid administration. A maximum concentration of 0.18% per gram of the total administered dose was achieved at 120 min, and the cerebrovascular permeability-surface area was increased to 30.8 x 10(-6) sec-1. Intracerebral IFN-alpha concentrations did not decline significantly during the 240 min study. Osmotic blood-brain barrier opening increased the area under the brain concentration vs. time curve, measured between 30 and 240 min, from 0.012 x 10(6) U.min/g, in controls, to 1.24 x 10(6) U.min/g, at least 100-fold. This study indicates that osmotic blood-brain barrier opening significantly increases the delivery of IFN-alpha into brain, and that delivered remains within the brain for many hours.
The pharmacokinetic distribution of human lymphoblastoid interferon (IFN-alpha), (Wellferon, Burroughs Wellcome Company, Research Triangle Park, NC) in plasma and seven tissues was studied for up to 4 hr after intravascular administration as a bolus, 2 x 10(5) U/100 g, or as a 5-min infusion, 2 x 10(6) U/100 g, into anesthetized male Fischer 344 rats. IFN-alpha disappeared rapidly from plasma with elimination T 1/2 of 47 and 68 min, respectively, and was preferentially taken up by the kidney as compared with other organs. After i.v. injection, significant amounts of IFN-alpha, in order of descending concentration, were detected in kidney, lung, spleen, liver and lymph node, but not in brain or skeletal muscle. After a 5-min IFN-alpha infusion, significant amounts, in order of descending priority, were detected in kidney, lung, spleen, lymph node, liver, muscle and brain. The pharmacokinetic parameters of IFN-alpha are described for plasma and different tissues. After intravascular IFN-alpha administration, high blood levels are achieved immediately which encourages rapid distribution throughout body tissues, albeit at the cost of a high renal catabolic loss, in concentrations that can be predicted from our study.
Body temperature is a regulatory function of the hypothalamus. Recently, DeMet et al. (Society for Neuroscience Abstracts Vol 12, 1986) reported that apomorphine stimulation of dopamine autoreceptors caused a significant decrease in metabolic rate in the posterior heat-conserving area of the hypothalamus. The logical hypothesis to follow is that apomorphine administration should induce a decrement in body temperature; this in fact was demonstrated by Cutler et al. (Commun Psychopharmacol 3:375-382, 1979) in humans. It is well known that neuroleptics also disrupt thermoregulation (Clark: Neurosci Biobehav Rev 3:179-231, 1979) and affect dopamine autoreceptors. Therefore, eight chronic treatment-resistant schizophrenics underwent a 6-week single-blind trial of haloperidol and then a subsequent 6-week double-blind trial of clozapine. Both haloperidol and clozapine significantly lowered oral body temperatures relative to baseline washout temperatures. More interestingly, clozapine relative to haloperidol was found to induce a greater decrement in body temperature and was associated with greater clinical improvement. Possible confounding variables are discussed, as is the possible neurochemical basis for the amelioration of psychosis associated with hypothermia.
Cultured astrocytes are depolarized by excitatory amino acids such as kainic acid. In these experiments we tested the hypothesis that the kainic acid-induced depolarization also causes an efflux of K+ from astrocytes in the rat. Using K+-sensitive microelectrodes we measured a K+ efflux from cultured astrocytes during the perfusion of kainic acid. The effects of kainic acid were then tested on glial cells in the neuron-free CA3 region of kainic acid-lesioned hippocampus. Glial cells were depolarized by kainic acid and an efflux of K+ was recorded. These effects are most likely due to direct effects on the glial cells because histological examination of the hippocampus showed this area to be free of neurons. Therefore it is hypothesized that kainic acid and any transmitter that depolarizes glial cells, will increase neuronal excitability indirectly by a K+ efflux from glial cells. This will have widespread implications for iontophoretic studies of transmitter actions.
Changes in electrophysiological properties measured in vitro were correlated with ultrastructural differences at synapses between sense cells and the primary afferent neurons in electrosensory organs of the thornback ray (the ampullae of Lorenzini). Variation in synaptic structure was classified into four synaptic morphotypes, which appear to represent stages in a cyclic pattern of ultrastructural modification associated with changes in synaptic efficacy. Synapses with deeper postsynaptic troughs, and active zone regions located at the &quot;narrow point&quot; of the presynaptic evagination, and other morphological differences, were associated with greater sensitivity and spontaneous activity. Furthermore, the morphology of synapses was different in organs that had shown increasing, decreasing or stable trends in sensitivity prior to fixation, suggesting that changes in synaptic physiology and morphology are interrelated, and providing evidence for the sequence of ultrastructural modifications represented by the four synaptic morphotypes. These results support the conclusion that synaptic morphology is plastic and that this plasticity has functional significance in terms of the threshold sensitivity and spontaneous activity monitored from the afferent nerves. Plasticity of synaptic morphology which is associated with changes in the efficacy of transmitter release at chemically mediated synapses could be important in relatively long-term phenomena.
In bovine adrenal medullary cells, phencyclidine inhibited carbachol-induced influx of 22Na, 45Ca and secretion of catecholamines in a concentration-dependent manner with a similar potency (IC50 7.0 microM). Phencyclidine also suppressed veratridine-induced influx of 22Na, 45Ca and secretion of catecholamines (IC50 60.0 microM). High K-induced 45Ca influx and catecholamine secretion were not affected by phencyclidine. In the cells preloaded with 86Rb (an alternative tracer for 42K), phencyclidine inhibited the efflux of 86Rb caused by carbachol (IC50 10.0 microM) or by veratridine (IC50 56.0 microM), but had no effect on high K-induced 86Rb efflux. [3H]Phencyclidine bound specifically to adrenal medullary cells, and binding was saturable, reversible and with two different equilibrium dissociation constants (4.3 and 77.4 microM). In a competition experiment, the specific binding of [3H]phencyclidine was not inhibited by carbachol, muscarine, D-tubocurarine, hexamethonium, tetrodotoxin, veratridine and scorpion venom. The present findings suggest: (1) phencyclidine does not inhibit voltage-dependent Ca channels and Ca-dependent K channels; (2) phencyclidine binds to two populations of sites, each of which is functionally linked to nicotinic receptor-ion channel complex and to voltage-dependent Na channels, and inhibits Na influx caused by carbachol and veratridine. Inhibition of Na influx by phencyclidine leads to the reduction of Ca influx, K efflux and catecholamine secretion caused by carbachol and veratridine.
The subcellular localization of neuropeptide Y in the bovine adrenal medulla was studied. After differential centrifugation, a large part of total neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity (66%) was recovered in the large granule fraction. This fraction also contained 42% of the total catecholamines and 52% of the total free [Met]enkephalin. Thus neuropeptide Y co-sedimented with these chromaffin granule markers. The large granule fraction was analysed by the technique of rate zonal centrifugation in hypertonic sucrose media (molarities ranging from 1.6 to 2.2 M). Noradrenaline vesicles were preferentially enriched at high sucrose concentration. Adrenaline vesicles as well as enkephalin and neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity pelleted mainly at lower sucrose concentrations. The large granule fraction was also separated by successive centrifugation in self-generating gradients of Percoll-sucrose into two subpopulations, one containing lighter adrenergic vesicles and the other the dense noradrenergic vesicles. Like [Met]enkephalin immunoreactivity, neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity was concentrated in fractions containing the lighter adrenergic vesicles. In these fractions the molar ratio of adrenaline to free [Met]enkephalin to neuropeptide Y was 5000:12:1. This biochemical study supports immunohistochemical studies which described co-localization of neuropeptide Y in adrenaline cells in the rat, mouse, cat, guinea-pig and man and co-localization of neuropeptide Y with enkephalins in bovine adrenal chromaffin cells. Our results are however in contrast with the report of other immunohistochemical work which claimed co-localization of neuropeptide Y in noradrenaline cells of rat, cat, dog, horse and cow.
We have developed a specific radioimmunoassay for &quot;cerebellin&quot;, a 16-amino acid peptide recently isolated from rat cerebellum. In both rat and guinea-pig, cerebellin-like immunoreactivity was highest in the cerebellum but was also present in high concentrations elsewhere in the central nervous system, especially in the hypothalamus. In both species, cerebellin-like immunoreactivity was found in other organs (heart, kidney and stomach) and at lower concentrations in the gastrointestinal tract. In the brain of both species, cerebellin-like immunoreactivity consisted of a single molecular form with an elution position on gel filtration and high-performance liquid chromatography identical to that of synthetic rat cerebellin. However, peripheral tissue contained an additional immunoreactive peak of higher molecular weight. Cerebellin was concentrated in synaptosomal preparations of rat brain, and its subcellular distribution pattern in rat brain was identical to that of two other known synaptosomal peptides, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and substance P. Studies with superfused cerebellar synaptosomes and slices of rat cerebellum and hypothalamus demonstrated calcium-dependent cerebellin release when stimulated by high potassium concentrations as well as the addition of the calcium ionophore A23187. Cerebellin has therefore a widespread distribution and fulfils two criteria for a neurotransmitter, in that it is found in brain synaptosomes and shows calcium dependent, depolarization-induced release from nervous tissues and isolated nerve endings. It may, therefore, be a component of a novel neurotransmitter system.
Our retrograde fluorescent double labeling study demonstrated the existence of divergent collateral projections from the substantia nigra to the striatum and superior colliculus in the rat. These bifurcating projection neurons were located predominantly in the ventrolateral portions of the substantia nigra pars reticulata at its rostral level, where they formed a narrow band along the boundary between the substantia nigra and cerebral peduncle. Such specific projection cells were also seen in the substantia nigra pars lateralis. However, nigral neurons did not give off axonal branches to the striatum and ventromedial thalamic nucleus. The new nigral cell population proposed here might constitute a neuroanatomical substrate for abnormal saccadic eye movements clinically manifested by many parkinsonian patients.
In order to investigate the nigro-tecto-spinal pathway in the rat, the pattern of termination of nigrotectal fibres and the distribution of tectospinal neurons have been investigated in a light and electron microscopic study of the superior colliculus. In addition, the pattern of termination of nigrotectal fibres was compared to the pattern of acetylcholinesterase staining. The light microscopic studies showed that the nigrotectal fibres, which had been identified by anterograde transport of horseradish peroxidase from the substantia nigra, terminated in a distinctive clustered pattern throughout the rostrocaudal extent of the stratum griseum intermedium, stratum album intermedium and adjacent dorsal portion of the stratum griseum profundum of the ipsilateral superior colliculus. The clusters of nigrotectal terminals formed a series of branching, interconnected longitudinal columns which largely corresponded with the pattern of acetylcholinesterase staining. The tectospinal neurons, which had been identified by retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase from the spinal cord, had mainly large-sized somata, were stellate in shape with multiple long dendrites, and formed variable-sized clusters of 4-15 neurons within lateral regions of the ventral stratum album intermedium and dorsal stratum griseum profundum. In experiments where both the nigrotectal terminals and the tectospinal neurons were labelled by the transport of horseradish peroxidase, the clusters of tectospinal neurons largely corresponded with the regions of densest nigrotectal fibre termination in the lateral regions of the superior colliculus. In addition, a small contralateral nigrotectal projection was localized in the rostrolateral region of the superior colliculus where the crossed fibres terminated in a clustered pattern in alignment with clusters of tectospinal neurons in this region. Electron microscopic examination of the superior colliculus following ibotenic acid lesions in the substantia nigra and horseradish peroxidase injections in the spinal cord showed multiple degenerating nigrotectal boutons in synaptic contact with the soma and the mainstem and secondary dendrites of labelled tectospinal neurons in the lateral regions of the stratum album intermedium and stratum griseum profundum of the superior colliculus. The majority of the degenerating nigrotectal boutons showed electron-lucent degenerative changes and were in axodendritic contact. All of the identified nigrotectal synapses were of the symmetrical type.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The rate of overflow and disappearance of dopamine from the extracellular fluid of the rat striatum has been measured during neuronal stimulation. Overflow of dopamine was induced by electrical stimulation of the medial forebrain bundle with biphasic pulse trains. The instantaneous concentration of dopamine was measured with a Nafion-coated, carbon fiber microelectrode implanted in the brain. The measurement technique, fast-scan cyclic voltammetry, samples the concentration of dopamine in less than 10 ms at 100 ms intervals. Identification of dopamine is made with cyclic voltammetry. Stimulated overflow was measured as a function of electrode position, stimulation duration, stimulation frequency, and after administration of L-DOPA and nomifensine. The observed concentration during a 2-s, 60-Hz stimulation was found to alter with position of the carbon fiber electrode. For stimuli of 3 s or less the amount of overflow was found to be a linear function of stimulus duration at a fixed electrode position. The observed overflow was found to be steady-state at a frequency of 30 Hz, suggesting a balance between uptake and synaptic overflow under these conditions. The experimental data was found to be successfully modelled when the balance of uptake and stimulated overflow was considered. It was assumed that each stimulus pulse releases a constant amount of dopamine (125 nM), and that uptake follows a Michaelis-Menten model for a single uptake site with Km = 200 nM and Vmax = 5 microM/s. The increase in stimulated overflow observed after L-DOPA (250 mg/kg) could be modelled by a 1.6-fold increase in the amount of dopamine release with no alteration of the uptake parameters. The increase in modelled by an increase in Km. In addition, the fit of the modelled data to the experimental data was improved when diffusion from the release and uptake sites was considered.
In isolated thalamic slices, responses of relay neurons to electrophoretically applied GABA were recorded intracellularly and compared with inhibitory postsynaptic potentials evoked by electrical stimulation of the reticularis nucleus of the thalamus. Both reduced the excitability of thalamic neurons and were biphasic in the majority of neurons studied, consisting of an early, negative-going and a later, positive-going component, when recorded close to reversal potential (mean reversal potentials -66.6 and -57.7 mV). Bicuculline and picrotoxin applied electrophoretically reduced conductance increases evoked by GABA in all neurons. The later, positive-going component was more sensitive to these antagonists (applied with submaximal doses) than the early component. Current-voltage relations for responses to GABA, like those for inhibitory postsynaptic potentials, were non-linear in the majority of neurons. In particular, there was a region of reduced slope resistance close to the reversal potential. Holding the membrane at a conditioning potential was found to change the subsequent response and its reversal potential. Positive holding potentials shifted reversal potentials in the positive direction only when GABA was applied during the conditioning period. Negative holding potentials were effective whether GABA was applied during the conditioning period or not. Recovery from these effects followed a similar time course at all membrane potentials tested. Injection of Cl- produced a positive shift in the reversal potential for both components of the response to GABA and of the evoked inhibitory postsynaptic potential. Inhibitory postsynaptic potentials evoked in thalamic relay neurons by stimulation of the nucleus reticularis resembled responses to GABA in their biphasic nature, reversal potentials and sensitivity to antagonists and to changes in intracellular chloride.
In isolated slices of rat thalamus, inhibitory postsynaptic potentials evoked by electrical stimulation of the nucleus reticularis, were recorded intracellularly in relay neurons in the anterior part of the thalamus. These inhibitory postsynaptic potentials were found to have reversal potentials close to the resting potential of the recorded cell, to reduce neuronal excitability and to be sensitive to electrophoretic application of the GABA antagonists bicuculline and picrotoxin, indicating that they were GABA-activated, chloride mediated events. Voltage sensitive responses of relay neurons evoked by current injection and by inhibitory postsynaptic potentials were then compared. Hyperpolarizing current pulses and hyperpolarizing inhibitory postsynaptic potential trains elicited from membrane potentials positive to -70 mV resulted in rebound slow spike activation on repolarization. Depolarizing current pulses and depolarizing inhibitory postsynaptic potential trains evoked slow spikes when elicited from membrane potentials negative to -60 mV. There was, however, one major difference, the slow spikes evoked by inhibitory postsynaptic potentials were always delayed to the end of the train. Reversal potentials of evoked inhibitory postsynaptic potentials were found to depend on the potential at which the membrane was held immediately before the inhibitory postsynaptic potential was evoked, indicating that passive distribution of chloride ions contributes to their equilibrium potential. Evoked inhibitory postsynaptic potentials consisted of at least two components with different reversal potentials although current voltage relations indicated that similar decreases in membrane resistance were associated with both components and that they shifted approximately in parallel when inhibitory postsynaptic potentials were evoked from different holding potentials. Trains of GABA-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic potentials, similar to those recorded during spindling, will evoke slow spikes in almost all thalamic relay neurons irrespective of other synaptic inputs. This response will effectively synchronize burst firing in all cells receiving the same inhibitory input.
Recently we reported significant modulation of climbing fiber discharge in cerebellar Purkinje cells during normal and perturbed locomotion in the decerebrate cat walking on a treadmill. In this study covariation of simple spike activity and step cycle behavior with complex spike discharge were studied in decerebrate cats. Purkinje cell simple and complex spike discharge was recorded extracellularly in the intermediate region of lobules IV and V. Forelimb triceps and biceps electromyographic activity and displacement were monitored during the step cycle. A series of analyses were carried out to determine the temporal relationship between the complex spike discharge and forelimb step cycle, electromyographic activity and simple spike discharge. In this paper only the complex spike discharge associated with the onset of locomotion was evaluated. Using a sorting technique the amplitude of the forelimb step cycle and the associated triceps and biceps electromyographic activity covaried with complex spike discharge. For the majority of cells the alterations in the step cycle followed or occurred with the increase in complex spike discharge. However, in some cells the step cycle modifications preceded the increase in climbing fiber afferent activity. Another series of analyses employing an alignment technique demonstrated that a short term increase in simple spike discharge followed and was tightly coupled to the complex spike discharge. Additionally in most Purkinje cells an &quot;oscillation&quot; of simple spike activity which followed the complex spike discharge was uncovered. These observations support an important role for the climbing fiber afferent system in ongoing motor behavior. The results are consistent with the speculation that increased climbing fiber afferent input alters cerebellar cortical output which in turn can alter the ongoing motor behavior.
Monoclonal antibodies, specific for either monoamine oxidases A or B, were used to determine the localization of monoamine oxidase in the human brain. Two distinct populations of neurons were detected by immunocytochemical staining. Neurons in regions rich in catecholamines were positive for monoamine oxidase A, including the nucleus locus coeruleus, the nucleus subcoeruleus and the medullary reticular formation. In these regions, monoamine oxidase A could be co-localized with the synthetic enzyme, dopamine-beta-hydroxylase. Neurons in the substantia nigra and the periventricular region of the hypothalamus, areas rich in dopamine neurons, stained for monoamine oxidase A but with much less frequency and intensity. The major accumulation of monoamine oxidase B-positive neurons was observed in the same regions in which monoamine oxidase B is found to co-localize with serotonin in monkey tissues, including the nucleus raphe dorsalis and the nucleus centralis superior. In addition, both monoamine oxidase A and B were localized in distinct populations of neurons in the lateral and tuberal regions of the hypothalamus, a region shown recently to contain histamine neurons in rats. Some glial cells were stained throughout the brain for monoamine oxidase A or B suggesting that glia are capable of either expression or uptake of these proteins.
Immunocytochemical studies, using an antibody directed against human dopamine beta-hydroxylase, identified an extensive plexus of noradrenergic axons/terminals in normal human hippocampus. In hippocampi of individuals with Alzheimer's disease, the density of noradrenergic innervation was reduced and abnormal noradrenergic axons, which exhibited multifocal enlargements, were present in the neuropil. Some of these neurites were clustered around deposits of amyloid (senile plaques), and these abnormalities were most common in CA3-4, a region normally showing a relatively high density of noradrenergic terminals. This investigation provides direct evidence for structural abnormalities of noradrenergic axons/nerve terminals in hippocampi of individuals with Alzheimer's disease.
Whereas the neurochemistry of the peripheral autonomic nervous system has been well characterized, less is known concerning the neurotransmitters utilized by medullary projections onto sympathetic preganglionic neurons residing in the thoracolumbar spinal intermediolateral cell column. Retrograde transport of rhodamine-labeled fluorescent microspheres following discrete microinjection into the thoracic intermediolateral cell column was combined with immunohistochemistry to determine neuroanatomic location of thyrotropin-releasing hormone-immunoreactive neurons which project to the intermediolateral cell column in the rat. The ventromedial group of raphe nuclei including the nucleus raphe pallidus, obscurus, and magnus possessed the greatest number of medullary thyrotropin-releasing hormone-immunoreactive neurons which also contained rhodamine-labeled microspheres. High numbers of intermediolateral cell column-projecting thyrotropin-releasing hormone-immunoreactive neurons were also observed in nucleus reticularis paragigantocellularis lateralis and magnocellularis, the lateral reticular nucleus, and the superficial ventral (arcuate) medullary surface. Despite the observations that nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis, paramedianus, and ventralis pars beta project to the intermediolateral cell column, double-labeled cells were not observed in these nuclei. Furthermore, whereas the nucleus reticularis magnocellularis and gigantocellularis, and the lateral reticular nucleus displayed strong ipsilateral predominance in projecting to the intermediolateral cell column, other medullary reticular and raphe nuclei displayed bilateral projections. The present findings support the hypothesis that thyrotropin-releasing hormone-containing neurons in the ventral medulla project to the intermediolateral cell column, and may influence sympathetic preganglionic neurons.
The purpose of the present study was to test the respective roles of the intrinsic neurons and of the catecholaminergic fibers in two behaviors elicited by electrical stimulation of the lateral hypothalamus, intracranial self-stimulation and the increase in locomotor activity produced by noncontingent stimulation. One group of rats was unilaterally injected in the middle lateral hypothalamus with a dose of ibotenic acid known to significantly decrease self-stimulation (4 micrograms/0.5 microliter). Two other groups received, in the same area, an injection of a small dose of 6-hydroxydopamine (2 micrograms/0.5 microliter). The rats of one of these groups were pre-treated with desmethylimipramine. Two other groups of rats were respectively injected with the vehicle of each neurotoxin. Eight days later all rats were bilaterally implanted with stimulation electrodes, one in the lesioned area, the other in the contralateral region. Each electrode of each animal was tested first for self-stimulation, then for locomotor activation measured in the open field produced by non-contingent stimulation. Whatever the lesion or the behavior tested, the response of the lateral hypothalamus contralateral to the lesioned area was normal. Self-stimulation was disturbed only with stimulation of the lateral hypothalamus lesioned by ibotenic acid. Self-stimulation in the lateral hypothalamus lesioned by 6-hydroxydopamine was normal. However, a significant loss of noradrenaline in the hippocampus and of dopamine in the striatum was observed. Furthermore, the brains of two rats unilaterally injected with the usual dose of 6-hydroxydopamine were processed for tyrosine hydroxylase immunocytochemistry.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Cultures were prepared from ventral spinal cord tissue from 8-11-week gestational human fetuses and grown for a period of up to 6 months. These cultures were studied by morphological, immunocytochemical and intracellular electrophysiological techniques. From 2 weeks in vitro and onward, small bipolar cells were found in outgrowths of spinal cord explants and were identified as neurons by positive immunoreactions with an antibody specific for neurofilament protein. In addition, a large population of glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive astrocytes and a smaller number of galactocerebroside-positive oligodendrocytes were recognized in these cultures. The development of synaptic terminals was also studied by electron microscopy. The first appearance of synaptic terminal was found in a 3-week culture and was an axo-dendritic synapse. During the next 2 months, there was a steady increase in number and structural maturation of synaptic profiles. In addition to axo-dendritic synapses, which were most common, axo-somatic and axo-axonic synapses were demonstrated. After 3 months in culture, the occurrence of large neurons possessing the characteristic features of mature neurons was also noted. Although the occurrence of oligodendrocytes in these cultures was confirmed, no myelination of axons was demonstrated by electron microscopy. Intracellular recordings were obtained from the cultured spinal cord cells, and these cells were identified clearly as neurons by their action potential responses to depolarizing current pulses. The average input resistance of these neurons was 31 M omega with resting membrane potential of -52 +/- 2.3 mV.
In situ hybridization was used to measure the levels of proenkephalin mRNA and prodynorphin mRNA in regions of rat striatum and nucleus accumbens. Chronic administration of haloperidol (2.4 mg/kg/day for 7 days) increased the levels of proenkephalin mRNA in both striatum and nucleus accumbens. In contrast, the levels of prodynorphin mRNA were not significantly affected in any region. Chronic administration of the D1 antagonist SCH 23390 (2.4 mg/kg/day for 7 days) decreased the striatal content of proenkephalin mRNA. A similar effect was seen in the lateral nucleus accumbens. The levels of prodynorphin mRNA were unaffected by SCH 23390 treatment in all regions examined. These results suggest that there is no major tonic dopaminergic regulation of prodynorphin synthesis in the basal ganglia. However, it appears that there is a tonic suppression, via D2 receptors, and a tonic enhancement, via D1 receptors, of proenkephalin synthesis, in the striatum and nucleus accumbens.


Microinjections of the neuroexcitatory substance L-glutamate, were made directly into various laminae of trigeminal nucleus caudalis to examine the influence of medullary dorsal horn neurons on the adrenal secretion of catecholamines in the anesthetized cat. Microinjections into the marginal layers (lamina I-II) or into the deep magnocellular portion (lamina V-VI) of nucleus caudalis ipsilateral to the adrenal vein sample evoked a prompt increase in the secretion of epinephrine and a smaller, yet consistent, increase in the secretion of norepinephrine. Injections into the magnocellular layers (lamina III-IV) had no significant effect on secretion of catecholamines. Injections into nucleus caudalis, contralateral to the adrenal vein sample, had no consistent effect on secretion suggesting that the central pathway from nucleus caudalis to the spinal cord for control of adrenal secretion of catecholamines is mainly ipsilateral. Changes in the adrenal secretion of epinephrine were not correlated with changes in adrenal venous blood flow, in arterial pressure or in heart rate. Arterial pressure was transiently increased by L-glutamate injections into the marginal layers, whereas injections into other laminae had no consistent effect. Heart rate increased regardless of the laminar site injection. The results indicate that local excitation of nucleus caudalis, in laminae that contain the majority of nociceptive neurons, evokes a consistent increase in the adrenal secretion of catecholamines, whereas excitation of neurons in laminae that mainly process non-noxious sensory input has no significant effect. It is concluded that secondary trigeminal neurons that contribute to the autonomic responses to noxious trigeminal stimuli have a similar distribution within nucleus caudalis as those that underlie the sensory-discriminative aspects of nociceptive.
Double immunolabelling on semithin sections revealed glutamate decarboxylase immunopositive dots surrounding somatostatin-containing cell sections in the rat periventricular hypothalamic area. Up to 12 appositions were observed per cell section with an average number of 2-3 and a unimodal distribution. At the electron microscopical level pre-embedding staining of glutamate decarboxylase showed that most immunoreactive elements consisted of immunolabelled axonal endings. Most of these glutamate decarboxylase immunopositive boutons were found within the neuropil where they frequently made synapses on unidentified dendrites. Some of them were apposed to somatostatin-containing cell bodies that were identified according to the presence of immunolabelled granules using combined immunogold post-embedding staining. In many instances glutamate decarboxylase immunoreactive endings were also found to be involved in synaptic contact with somatostatin-labelled perikarya, or neuronal processes. These contacts provide the morphological basis for a direct GABAergic control of the somatostatin-containing cells regulating the secretion of growth hormone.
The adrenaline-induced hyperpolarization, which was recorded in neurons of bullfrog paravertebral sympathetic ganglia by means of the sucrose gap technique, was antagonized by 1 mM 4-aminopyridine. The response was unaffected by drugs which influence intracellular Ca2+ movements or Ca2+-sensitive K+ conductances, i.e. 100 or 200 microM Cd2+, 60 microM dantrolene Na+, 10 mM tetraethylammonium bromide, 0.5-2.0 microM apamin or 70 microM (+)-tubocurarine chloride. The spontaneous, rhythmic hyperpolarizations which occur in ganglionic neurons in the presence of 5 mM caffeine and reflect activation of Ca2+-sensitive K+ conductances following mobilization of intracellular Ca2+, were examined by means of intracellular recording. These responses were often biphasic, comprising a transient rapid early phase and a slow late phase. Tetraethylammonium (10 mM) and 0.5-2.0 microM apamin antagonized the rapid early phase and 70 microM (+)-tubocurarine chloride antagonized both phases of the response. Neither phase of these spontaneous, rhythmic, caffeine-induced hyperpolarizations were affected by 1 mM 4-aminopyridine. Although the adrenaline-induced hyperpolarization was antagonized by 50 microM 8-(diethylamino)octyl-3,4,5-trimethoxybenzoate and by 50 microM quinidine, the majority of the results argue against the hypothesis that mobilization of intracellular Ca2+ is required for activation of the K+ conductance thought to underlie the adrenaline-induced hyperpolarization.
The localization of glycine receptors was immunocytochemically examined in the rat brain using a monoclonal antibody against the affinity-purified glycine receptor. Glycine receptors were concentrated in the lower brainstem, whereas no immunoreactivity was observed in the diencephalon and forebrain except in a few diencephalic nuclei. The highest density of receptors was found in the cranial motor nuclei, reticular formation, parabrachial area, dorsal and ventral cochlear nuclei, and dorsal and ventral tegmental nuclei. Differences were observed in the distribution of immunoreactive elements in the various brain regions. In the cerebellar cortex, the immunoreactivity was exclusively seen along the dendrites of the Purkinje cells. On the other hand, glycine receptors were detected on the cellular membrane of the soma of the cochlear nuclei, trigeminal motor nucleus, parabrachial area, lateral reticular nucleus, dorsal nucleus of the lateral lemniscus, cerebellar nuclei, trigeminal spinal nucleus, anterior horn and reticular formation. In other regions, the receptors were evenly distributed throughout the neuropil.
A lattice of high oxidative metabolic activity occurs in the intermediate gray layer of the human, monkey, and cat superior colliculus. It is composed of a matrix of high enzyme activity that surrounds pale islands or bands of lower activity. In the human the pale bands are 300-400 micron wide while in the smaller colliculi of the monkey and cat they are 100-200 micron wide. The lattice was demonstrated by studying either cytochrome oxidase or succinate dehydrogenase. In the cat and monkey the lattice occurs at the same depth as the lattice of intense acetylcholinesterase activity, but the two lattices are not in spatial register. In the human the lattice of high oxidative metabolic activity is in the middle of the intermediate gray layer, whereas the lattice of intensely stained cholinesterase activity is at the base of this layer, but again the two lattices are not in spatial register. However, in the middle of the intermediate gray layer of the human, there are elongated islands and bands of very low acetylcholinesterase activity that coincide with the pale islands and bands of low cytochrome oxidase activity. An additional lattice of high enzyme activity occurs based on the enzyme nicotinamide dinucleotide phosphate (reduced form)-diaphorase. This lattice is prominent in the cat, occurs more faintly in the monkey, but did not appear to be present in the human. In the intermediate gray layer it had a high degree of overlap with the acetylcholinesterase lattice. The lattice of high oxidative metabolism contains loosely knit clusters of large multipolar cells containing high cytochrome oxidase activity and these cells do not occur in the pale islands. By contrast the cell bodies in the intermediate gray layer that contain either acetylcholinesterase or the diaphorase occur both between and within the patches of corresponding, high enzyme activity. It is suggested that the acetylcholinesterase and diaphorase lattices are mainly associated with afferent fibers while the lattice of high oxidative metabolism is mainly associated with intrinsic cells. The lattices occur in all mammals studied to date and appear to represent a fundamental principle in the organization of the mammalian colliculus. It is concluded that the lattices will provide a useful basis for further studies of the relationship between the many afferent and efferent modules thought to exist in this structure.
The distribution of substance P, somatostatin, cholecystokinin, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, enkephalin and serotonin in axons, terminals and neurons was compared in the area surrounding the central canal (lamina X) at five representative levels of the monkey spinal cord, using peroxidase-antiperoxidase immunocytochemistry. Immunoreactive neurons containing each of the neurochemicals were identified. At the cervical, thoracic and lumbar levels the area lateral to the canal had dense terminal fields immunoreactive for each neurochemical. The dorsal commissural region, the pericanal area, and the ventral commissural area were supplied by some but not all of the substances. In the lower thoracic cord innervation extended into the dorsal midline area and into the ventromedial commissural region. In contrast, in the sacral cord, the dorsal commissural region could be subdivided on the basis of innervation, and the lateral region was densely supplied by only cholecystokinin and serotonin, while the sacral ventral commissure and the pericanal area were supplied by all six neurochemicals. The immunocytochemical mappings were compared with published maps of functional classes of neurons and with the distribution of primary afferents and descending fibers in lamina X. The dense peptidergic and serotonergic innervation in the lateral area and the dorsal commissural area corresponded particularly with the location of projection neurons and primary afferents described in other studies.
The cholinergic innervation of rat cerebral cortex was studied by immunohistochemical localization of choline acetyltransferase. Stained bipolar cells, fibers and terminals were found in all areas of cortex. The density of cholinergic terminals was similar in all cortical areas with the exception of entorhinal and olfactory cortex, which showed a marked increase in the number of stained terminals. A laminar distribution of cholinergic terminals was found in many cortical areas. In motor and most sensory areas, terminal density was high in layer 1 and upper layer 5, and lowest in layer 4. Visual cortex, in contrast to other cortical areas, was characterized by a dense band of innervation in layer 4. It has been known that the majority of cortical cholinergic structures derive from a projection to cortex from large, multipolar neurons in the basal forebrain, which stain heavily for choline acetyltransferase. In this study, stained fibers were observed to take three different pathways from basal forebrain to cortex. The first, confined to medial aspects of forebrain and cortex, was observed to originate in the septal area, from where fibers formed a discrete bundle, swinging forward around the rostral end of the corpus callosum, then travelling caudally in the cingulate bundle. The second was found to consist of fibers fanning out laterally from the area of the globus pallidus, travelling through the caudate, then continuing for various distances in the corpus callosum before finally turning into the cortex. A third pathway appeared to innervate olfactory and entorhinal cortex. Ibotenic acid injections were made in the area of the globus pallidus to study the effect of lesioning the lateral pathway on the cholinergic innervation in cortex. A major loss of choline acetyltransferase positive terminals was observed in neocortex, but retrosplenial, cingulate, entorhinal and olfactory cortex showed a normal density of cholinergic innervation. The borders separating areas with lesioned cholinergic input from non-lesioned areas were precise. The distribution of stained terminals remaining in cortical areas with lesioned basal forebrain innervation suggests that the basal forebrain projection to cerebral cortex, and not the intrinsic cortical cholinergic neurons, give rise to the laminar distribution of cholinergic terminals observed in normal cortex. To compare the relative densities of different cholinergic cortical systems, the distribution of choline acetyltransferase staining was compared with that of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and substance P, which are co-localized in some choline acetyltransferase-positive neurons innervating cortex.
The basal ganglia and substantia nigra, taken from control human brain and from patients dying with a diagnosis of Parkinson's disease or Huntington's chorea, were analysed with histochemical and biochemical techniques. The pigmented neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta possess tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity and are disposed in three major layers, alpha, beta and gamma. This pattern became obscured in choreic brains by the severe shrinkage of the nigra, but total numbers of pigmented neurons were within the normal range. In contrast, pigmented neurons were lost from all layers of the substantia nigra in Parkinson's disease, although examination of cases with minimal cell loss suggested that an internal part of the lateral alpha sub-layer was most severely and consistently affected. A dopaminergic projection between this internal part of the alpha sub-layer and the putamen was suggested by the preferential loss of catecholamines from the putamen in Parkinson's disease. The distribution of the peptides, substance P, methionine-enkephalin and dynorphin 1-17 were mapped immunohistochemically within the substantia nigra. The different patterns of immunoreactive axons and terminals were found to be extensive, at least partially overlapping, and largely avoided the region of the pigmented perikarya of the alpha sub-layer and nucleus paranigralis. All peptides were depleted in choreic substantia nigra, reflecting the degeneration of the striatonigral pathway. However, concentrations of enkephalin-like immunoreactivity were increased within the interpeduncular nucleus. In Parkinson's disease there was a loss of enkephalin- and dynorphin-like immunoreactivity from the substantia nigra but a fall in substance P-like immunoreactivity was only detected by radioimmunoassay, not by immunocytochemistry. Peptide immunoreactivity was also reduced within choreic basal ganglia. However, no gross changes were found in peptide staining of the parkinsonian basal ganglia. In summary we have reported a number of changes in peptide-containing pathways in human degenerative disorders that may reflect the degeneration of neuronal pathways either as a primary event or secondary to initial lesion. We have also emphasized the sensitivity of the alpha sub-layer of nigral neurons to damage in Parkinson's disease. We suggest that the lower density of peptidergic fibres in the area of the perikarya may contribute to the susceptibility of these neurons to damage.

Magnetic resonance imaging and evoked potential studies were performed on an infant with hydranencephaly. Magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated the absence of cortical tissue with a structurally intact mid- and hind-brain. Evoked potentials confirmed the loss of cortical activity with preservation of brainstem function. These diagnostic tests gave efficient and precise information concerning the extent of the intracranial pathology and prognosis.
Central injection of thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) prevented the rise in plasma glucose due to clonidine challenge in mice. This antihyperglycemic action was dose-related, dependent upon the structural integrity of the peptide, dissociated from the peptide's hypophysiotropic influences, and coupled to reversal of clonidine's suppressive action of insulin release. TRH was effective in preventing the rise in plasma glucose when given at different times before clonidine (up to two hours), and it also reversed the hyperglycemia when administered 30 min after clonidine, when plasma glucose was already exceedingly high. The results suggest that TRH is able to physiologically oppose clonidine-induced hyperglycemia by acting in a specific and durable manner upon central mechanisms which modulate insulin secretion.
We previously reported an increase in the binding of [3H]cyclohexyladenosine ([3H]CHA) to brain membranes from the hypothalamus of rats sacrificed following three days of chronic stress in an around-the-clock intermittent footshock avoidance/escape paradigm (&quot;sustained performance&quot; stress). Here we report stress-induced increases in [3H]CHA binding to hypothalamic membranes from rats stressed for 14 days in that escape/avoidance paradigm, in rats exposed to repeated restraint (3 hr/day for 10 days) and in rats exposed to four days of &quot;activity-stress.&quot; Data from saturation binding experiments indicate that this up-regulation was due to an increase in the apparent number of [3H]CHA binding sites without change in affinity for [3H]CHA. Neither restraint for one three-hr period nor one 15-min exposure to intermittent footshock resulted in significant changes in [3H]CHA binding to hypothalamic membranes. Our present data demonstrate small but consistent increases in the number of [3H]CHA binding sites in hypothalamic membranes from rats stressed in several different chronic stress models but no change by acute stress.
High amplitude spiking representative of seizures, accompanied by an unusual motor behavior pattern of rearing and forelimbic clonus resembling &quot;boxing,&quot; was elicited by microinjection of the cholinergic agonist, carbachol, 4 micrograms, into the medial prefrontal cortex of the rat. A rating scale devised to score the behavior revealed a motor pattern elicited by carbachol from the medial anterior cortex which was similar to that described by Racine for electrical stimulation of the amygdala. Topographical analysis of the areas surrounding the medial anterior cortex region revealed that the motor manifestations of seizures were elicited over a wide region of the anterior cortex, with scores significantly lower at carbachol microinjection sites greater than 1 mm rostral, 2 and 3 mm caudal, and 2 mm lateral to the standard medial prefrontal cortex site. Unilateral microinjection of carbachol yielded motor seizures primarily from the contralateral forepaw, suggesting involvement of a crossed pathway. Retrograde tracing with fast blue dye, combined with immunostaining for choline acetyltransferase and NADPH-diaphorase, found that the cholinergic neurons innervating the standard microinjection site were the dorsolateral tegmental cells, as previously reported, which have been shown to also contain substance P and corticotropin releasing factor. In addition, cholinergic neurons of the nucleus basalis of Meynert region were found to innervate the standard microinjection site. These findings implicate cholinergic innervation of the rostral cortex in classical limbic seizures.

Growth of germinal cells at different angular positions within the posterior portion of the embryonic frog eye has been examined by orthotopically transplanting small groups of germinal cells from pigmented (stage 30-38) donor embryos into albino (stage 28-36) hosts and then serially photographing the polyclonal-cell progeny domain (typically a black sector) in the pigmented retinal epithelium of the living, growing eye. Far-ventral (6 o'clock) germinal cells formed a narrow sector along the ventral fissure, but ventral germinal cells at a position just posterior to the fissure (7 o'clock on a right eye) were seen to expand rapidly their angular territory on the germinal zone and formed huge sectors that widened toward the front of the older larval eye. Posterior (8, 9, and 10 o'clock) germinal cells were seen to shift their angular positions gradually toward dorsal and formed sectors that appeared to veer dorsalward nearing the front of the older eye. Dorsal (11 o'clock) germinal cells showed attenuative growth, forming sectors that narrowed approaching the front of the older eye. A simulation model of the growth dynamic was used to examine how expansive growth ventrally drives the positional variations in growth. When far-ventral germinal cells were programmed to retain the 6 o'clock position and ventral (7 o'clock) germinal cells were programmed to divide symmetrically at a high probability to produce two daughter germinal cells, not only were the observed ventral chimeric patterns simulated, but also simulated were the attenuative growth of dorsal transplants and the dorsal displacement and veering seen in the growth of posterior transplants.
[3H]Forskolin bound to high- and low-affinity sites in the rat brain. The high-affinity site was discretely located, with highest densities in the striatum, nucleus accumbens, olfactory tubercule, substantia nigra, hippocampus, and the molecular layers of the cerebellum. This site did not correlate well with the distribution of adenylate cyclase. The high-affinity striatal binding site may be associated with a stimulatory guanine nucleotide-binding protein. Thus, the number of sites was increased by the addition of Mg2+ and guanylyl imidodiphosphate. Cholera toxin stereotaxically injected into one rat striatum increased the number of binding sites, and no further increase was noted following the subsequent addition of guanyl nucleotide. High-affinity forskolin binding sites in non-dopamine-rich brain areas (hippocampus and cerebellum) were modulated in a qualitatively different manner by guanyl nucleotides. In these areas the number of binding sites was significantly reduced by the addition of guanyl nucleotide. These results suggest that forskolin may have a potential role in identifying different functional/structural guanine nucleotide-binding proteins.
Models of synaptic plasticity in the nervous system have conventionally assumed a mechanism in which spike activity of a postsynaptic cell enhances the efficacy of recently active presynaptic inputs. Making use of the prompt and dramatic response of the visual cortex to occlusion of vision in one eye during the critical period, we tested the role of postsynaptic activity in ocular dominance plasticity. To do so, we selectively blocked cortical cell discharges with a continuous intracortical infusion of the inhibitory neurotransmitter agonist muscimol during a period of monocular deprivation. This drug inhibits cortical cell discharges with no apparent effect on the activity of their presynaptic geniculocortical inputs. Recording from single cortical cells after they had recovered from the muscimol-induced blockade, we found a consistent shift in the responsiveness of the visual cortex in favor of the less-active, closed eye, while the normal shift in favor of the more-active, open eye was evident in regions not affected by the treatment. Such an inhibition-coupled expression of plasticity in favor of the less-active, closed eye cannot be explained by a nonspecific disruption of cortical function. We interpret these results to indicate (i) that the postsynaptic cell is crucially involved in plasticity of the visual cortex, (ii) that the direction of cortical plasticity depends on postsynaptic membrane conductance or polarization, and (iii) that plasticity can occur in the absence of postsynaptic spike activity.
Recent evidence suggest that the N-methyl-D-aspartate (N-Me-D-Asp) channel is functionally and structurally associated with the phencyclidine (PCP) receptor, which mediates the psychotomimetic effects of PCP, sigma opioids, and dioxalanes. To investigate the relationship between N-Me-D-Asp and PCP receptors on a molecular level, we injected mRNA isolated from adult rat brain into Xenopus oocytes. In injected oocytes N-Me-D-Asp application (with glycine) evoked a partially desentizing inward current that was potentiated by glycine and blocked by D-(-)-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (D-APV), by Zn2+ and, in a voltage-dependent manner, by Mg2+. These results show that the distinguishing features of rat brain N-Me-D-Asp channels are reproduced in this translation system. In addition, kainic acid elicited a nondesensitizing inward current at short latency, and quisqualate elicited a delayed oscillatory inward current, presumably mediated by a second-messenger system. Responses to glutamate had both short-latency and delayed components. The PCP derivative N-[1-(2-thienyl)cyclohexyl]piperidine (TCP) blocked the N-Me-D-Asp-evoked current, and its potency was comparable to its binding affinity in rat brain membranes. Onset of block required the presence of antagonist. Antagonism was stereoselective in that the active ligand dexoxadrol was a more effective blocker than its relatively inactive stereoisomer levoxadrol. adrol. Other PCP receptor ligands, (+)SKF-10,047 and MK-801, also blocked. Potencies of compounds active at N-Me-D-Asp and PCP receptors in oocytes were comparable to those obtained previously in electrophysiological and binding assays on neural tissues. These results indicate the coexpression of neuronal PCP and N-Me-D-Asp receptors in Xenopus oocytes.
The growth hormone (GH) response to apomorphine hydrochloride (APO) was examined monthly in 12 schizophrenic patients on drug holiday for up to 22 months and compared with age- and sex-matched controls. There was more variability in the response of patients than controls on the first trial and on several subsequent challenges. Patients' and controls' GH responses to an APO challenge did not distinguish them from each other on the first trial. However, longitudinal data revealed that in a subgroup of five schizophrenic patients and five controls, studied for 12 consecutive trials, the GH response averaged over the 12 trials was significantly lower in the patients than in the controls. Moreover, when schizophrenics' responses on each successive trial were compared, responses decreased over time, but were significantly different from controls only in the later trials. Three of the patients were followed for more than 12 trials, and their GH responsivity increased in the later trials. GH response to APO was significantly correlated with positive symptom scores in three patients but not in four others. There was a trend toward an association between the occurrence of relapse and GH increment induced by APO. A significant association between change in body weight and change in GH response to APO was discovered, suggesting that a changing body weight may contribute to the variability in subjects' response to APO.
Stressful social interactions have been shown to elicit increases in heart rate as well as in plasma levels of epinephrine, norepinephrine, and cortisol in humans. We sought to determine whether a competitive oral examination would affect plasma levels of the pituitary hormones ACTH, beta-endorphin, beta-lipotrophic hormone, and prolactin in a group of healthy young males. Seven min after beginning the examination, heart rate increased 27% and plasma levels of ACTH, beta-endorphin, beta-lipotropic hormone and prolactin rose 59%, 79%, 42%, and 46%, respectively, compared to values shortly before the examination. These hormone values returned to initial levels after the subjects returned to the waiting room. Plasma cortisol changes were similar in direction to those of ACTH but occurred about 15 min later. The present study demonstrates that a stressful social interaction can elicit rapid increases in plasma levels of the proopiomelanocortin derived peptide hormones and prolactin in man.



Biosynthesis and early processing of beta-galactosidase were analyzed by pulse-chase technique in human fibroblasts. In normal cells, an 84 kDa precursor was processed first to an intermediate form of higher molecular weight (88 kDa), and then to a 64 kDa mature enzyme. This intermediate form was detected also in the culture medium. Biosynthesis of the precursor was apparently normal in four cases of GM1-gangliosidosis, and a precursor of abnormally high molecular weight (86 kDa) was observed in one case. No further processing occurred to the 88 kDa form. It was concluded that the enzyme deficiency was caused by heterogeneous molecular mutations of beta-galactosidase with a defect in early processing in this disease.

Morphine pellets produced atrophy of the spleen and thymus and affected mitogen-induced lymphocyte proliferation in mice as characterized by marked suppression of concanavalin A-induced blastogenesis at 48 h, and mild stimulation at 120 h. Morphine blood levels in these animals indicated that changes in the immunomodulatory effects of morphine over time were not related to dramatic shifts in circulating morphine. Enclosure of the pellet in nylon mesh did not alter blood levels or morphine-induced immunomodulation.
Rats were given continuous infusions of (+)-4-propyl-9-hydroxynaphthoxazine (PHNO, 5 micrograms/h), a dopamine D-2 receptor agonist, using subcutaneous implants of ALZET osmotic minipumps. It was observed that tolerance occurred to the motor stimulant effects of PHNO during the light cycle of each day, but not during the dark cycle. Rather, the motor stimulant actions of PHNO were gradually augmented during successive nights. Daytime tolerance to the stimulant actions of PHNO was reversed by a mild environmental stress or by administration of the D-1 receptor agonist, SKF 38393 (6 mg/kg i.p.). Co-administration of the dopamine D-1 receptor antagonist, (SCH 23390, 20 micrograms/h s.c. by ALZET osmotic minipumps), initially blocked the motor stimulant actions of PHNO and also attenuated the reversal of tolerance to PHNO produced by stress, without blocking the actions of stress on activity in vehicle-infused animals. These results indicate that tolerance to the behavioural effects of PHNO may result from a loss of activation of D-1 receptors by endogenous DA.
Cocaine and some related psychostimulants interact with sigma receptors in binding assays. Their Ki values are compatible with blood concentrations reported to produce psychosis in human volunteers. It is proposed that the psychotomimetic effects of some psychostimulants may derive, at least in part, from their interaction with sigma receptors.
We studied the normal development of responses to visual stimulation among neurons in the posteromedial lateral suprasylvian (PMLS) visual cortex, an extrastriate visual cortical area in cats. Recordings were made from 495 single neurons in 19 kittens that were 2, 3, 4, 8, or 12 weeks of age, and the results were compared with those from normal adult cats. The percentage of neurons that respond to light increased from 57% in 2-week-old kittens to approximately adult values in 8-week-old kittens (81%). The strength and consistency of neuronal responses also increased with age. Nearly all of the responsive cells had well-defined excitatory receptive-field centers, and the receptive-field center sizes were similar to adults at all ages studied. However, few cells (5%) had inhibitory receptive-field surrounds in 2-week-old kittens. The incidence of surround inhibition increased to adult levels (about 40% of the cells) by 8 weeks of age, and the strength of surround inhibition also increased with age. Most cells responded best to moving stimuli in 2-week-old kittens, just as in adults. However, only about 20% of the responsive cells were direction sensitive at 2 weeks of age. The percentage of direction-sensitive cells increased gradually with age and reached approximately adult values by 8 weeks of age (74%). Once cells developed complete direction selectivity, with no response in the null direction, directional tuning width was similar to that in adults. When tested with slits of light flashed at various orientations or with spots and slits moving in various directions, few cells (8% or less) showed orientation selectivity at any age, just as in adults. Most of the cells were binocularly driven, and the ocular dominance distribution was similar to adults at all ages studied. These results indicate that many response properties of PMLS neurons are similar to those of adults as early as 2 weeks of age, soon after the time of eye opening. However, some properties show marked developmental changes. The mechanisms and sources of these changes are considered. In addition, the relevance of these results to mechanisms of compensation following early damage to visual cortical areas 17, 18 and 19 is discussed.
We have examined the impact of L-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) on the in vivo release of dopamine (DA) in rat striatum using carbon fiber voltammetry. L-DOPA caused a large increase in the DA released by nigrostriatal bundle stimulation. This was reduced by 94% in animals pretreated with intraventricular 6-hydroxydopamine. We conclude that L-DOPA increases depolarization-induced DA release from DA neurons.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the mechanisms of physiological compensation that is seen in the posteromedial lateral suprasylvian (PMLS) cortex of cats that received visual cortex (areas 17, 18, and 19) damage early in life. The strategy was to compare the response properties of PMLS neurons just after visual cortex damage (before any compensation has occurred) with the properties of PMLS neurons in normal cats and cats with long-standing visual cortex damage. Fourteen animals (aged 8 weeks, 18 weeks, 26 weeks, or adult) received a unilateral visual cortex lesion and recordings were made from ipsilateral PMLS cortex within about 24 h. An additional 4 adult cats were studied within either 24 or 3 h of a bilateral visual cortex lesion. Results from these animals were compared with results from normal cats and cats with long-standing visual cortex damage studied previously in this laboratory. At all ages studied, an acute visual cortex lesion reduced the percentage of direction-sensitive cells in PMLS cortex from nearly 80% in normal cats to about 20% after the lesion. In 8- and 18-week-old kittens, nearly all of the remaining PMLS cells responded best to stimulus movement but were not direction sensitive. In 26-week-old and adult cats, the remaining cells were divided between those that responded to movement without a directional preference and those that responded as well to stationary flashed stimuli as to moving stimuli. The presence of receptive-field surround inhibition was not affected significantly by an acute lesion at any age. In addition, few PMLS cells were orientation selective to elongated slits of light in cats with an acute lesion, just as in normal cats. The ocular dominance distributions of PMLS neurons also were normal following an acute visual cortex lesion at all ages studied. These results suggest that the influences of areas 17, 18, and 19 on the response properties of PMLS neurons are the same when the properties first reach maturity as in adult cats. The results also suggest that the mechanisms of physiological compensation for an early visual cortex lesion differ for different response properties. Compensation of direction sensitivity and orientation selectivity (an anomalous property) develops de novo after the early lesion. In contrast, compensation of ocular dominance appears to be due to the maintenance of a preexisting property that is present immediately after the lesion. Thus, plasticity after early visual cortex damage represents multiple developmental changes in the remaining visual pathways.
Projections from the rat lateral entorhinal cortex (area 28-l) to the dentate gyrus were traced and then interpreted according to a parcellation scheme that recognized four cytoarchitectonic subdivisions of area 28-l: areas dorsolateral (dl), ventrolateral (vl), ventromedial (vm), and TR. Following lesions of area 28-l, anterograde degeneration was traced with the Fink-Heimer method. In parallel experiments iontophoretic injections of horseradish peroxidase (HRP) were made in the lateral perforant path terminal zone of the dentate molecular layer. Retrograde neuronal labeling patterns within area 28-l were charted following dorsal, midseptotemporal (mid ST), and ventral dentate injections. In two additional cases HRP was deposited in the ventral subiculum. Lesions of area dl (which lies entirely on the posterolateral cortex) produced terminal degeneration that was confined to the dorsal one-half of the dentate gyrus. Lesions involving primarily areas vl and vm (which lie on the posteroinferior cortex) caused a complementary pattern of degeneration; silver grains predominated in the ventral dentate gyrus. Injections of HRP into the outer dentate molecular layer labeled layer II neurons within area 28-l. Deposits of HRP in the dorsal one-third of the dentate gyrus labeled a rostrocaudal strip of neurons within the dorsal one-third of area dl; no other subdivisions of area 28-l contained labeling. After mid-ST deposits of HRP, a rostrocaudally oriented strip of labeled cells appeared in the ventral one-third of area dl. Mid-ST injections also labeled neurons in the caudolateral quadrant of area vl. Injection of HRP into the ventral dentate gyrus labeled neurons in the caudomedial quadrant of area vl as well as a few neurons in caudal area vm. No labeled cells were ever found in area dl following ventral dentate HRP deposits. Neurons within area TR were never retrogradely labeled from injections of HRP into the dentate perforant path zone. However, ventral subicular injections of HRP labeled a few cells in the posterior part of area TR, as well as hundreds of neurons throughout the rostrocaudal extent of area vl. The results indicate a highly organized innervation of the dentate gyrus by several subdivisions of area 28-l. In area dl, rostrocaudal strips of layer II neurons innervate distinct segments of the dorsal ST axis. The posterior half of areas vl and vm innervates the ventral half of the ST axis; a lateromedial gradient there corresponds to increasingly ventral terminations along the dentate ST axis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
A pronounced decrease in dopamine content in both the striatum and the mesolimbic area was observed up to 120 days of age after treatment with 6-hydroxydopamine (100 micrograms, intracisternally) following desipramine pretreatment (20 mg/kg, i.p.) at the 5th postnatal day. In the 6-hydroxydopamine-treated rats, Met-enkephalin-like immunoreactivity in the striatum was found to have increased at 35 and 70 days old, although it remained unchanged at 25 days old. The neonatal administration of 6-hydroxydopamine, however, did not affect the peptide content in the mesolimbic area at any age. These results indicate that the neonatal dopamine reduction changes the Met-enkephalinergic neuronal activity in the striatum at the adult age.
It has long been a problem in neuroscience to known how the brain controls its own activity, how it is able to control the level of CNS excitability and how it is able to select and act on some information as opposed to some other information. In this paper I propose a new theory in which the basal ganglia play a role in selecting information (&quot;selective attention&quot;) and in controlling the general level of excitability of the CNS (&quot;state control&quot;), the two processes being to some extent interdependent. The basal ganglia achieve these functions by actions on the thalamic-frontal cortical axis and on the brainstem mesencephalic reticular formation.
In this study, we investigated the effects of acute caffeine administration on the activity of midbrain dopamine neurons. Caffeine significantly depressed the firing rates of dopamine neurons in the ventral tegmental area (A10 group), but had no significant effect on the firing rates of dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra zona compacta (A9 group). The action of caffeine in A10 was completely blocked by pretreatment with the adenosine agonist L-phenyl-isopropyl-adenosine (L-PIA), confirming numerous lines of evidence that caffeine and other xanthines act as competitive antagonists at adenosine receptors. The dopamine antagonist haloperidol also antagonized the effects of caffeine. This finding is consistent with a mechanism of caffeine-induced depression of dopamine neuron activity involving dopamine release, similar to that observed during amphetamine administration. Finally, the benzodiazepine diazepam also antagonized the dopaminergic effects of caffeine. It appears that, in the rat, caffeine administration inhibits mesolimbic and mesocortical projecting dopamine neurons, but has no effect on dopamine neurons that project to the striatum.
Sciatic nerve blood flow (NBF) during hypercarbia was examined in unanesthetized decerebrate rats by means of laser Doppler flowmetry (LDF). During inspiration of gas mixtures containing no CO2, followed by either 5, 10 or 20% CO2, arterial pCO2 increased by 13, 18 and 68 mm Hg, respectively. Blood pressure (BP) and the LDF signal, which were measured continuously, increased for 30-40 s following the start of inhalation of CO2 and then decreased. Three min after the start of inhalation of 5 or 10% CO2, BP had returned to the baseline and the LDF signal was increased by 14 and 15%, respectively, compared with preinhalation values. In rats inspiring 20% CO2, systemic BP remained elevated 12% above the baseline and NBF was increased by 18%. The results indicate that dilatation of the vasa nervorum during hypercarbia is less than that at cerebral blood vessels. The nerve vasculature dilates maximally in response to 5% CO2, with a rise in NBF of about 1.1% per mm Hg increase in paCO2.
Effects of aspiration lesions of the cerebral cortex on intraventricular substantia nigra grafts were investigated. Increased reinnervation of the dorsal striatum was observed in animals with cortical aspirations. This reinnervation was confined to the dorsal one-fourth of the striatum, immediately underneath the cortical lesions. The increased reinnervation of the striatum by substantia nigra grafts in animals with cortical lesions is suggested to be related either to secretion of neurotrophic substances by the injured brain tissue or to removal of competition between corticostriatal inputs and graft-derived neurites for synaptic contacts.
Low-threshold mechanosensory nerves in the adult rat differ both from their counterparts in lower vertebrates and from high-threshold nociceptive nerves in mammals in that they appear not to undergo collateral sprouting into adjacent denervated skin, although they will clearly regenerate into it after they are damaged. We have now studied the growth capabilities of the low-threshold nerves supplying touch domes, the visible mechanosensory structures scattered throughout the hairy skin. Touch domes in the rat are often multiply innervated. A serendipitous observation on such domes allowed us to investigate the possibility that a functional collateral sprouting of their nerves can indeed occur, but only to a spatially very restricted extent, e.g., within the confines of a partially denervated dome. We used a &quot;prodder&quot; with a tip diameter of 16 micron to examine the mechanosensory profile across single domes that were preselected as being supplied by only two axons, one running in each of two adjacent dorsal cutaneous nerves (DCNs). Simultaneous recordings were made of the afferent discharges evoked in these nerves when the prodder was applied at about 17 or more locations on a selected dome; the spatial resolution was better than 55 micron. We found that within such a shared dome, one axon can supply a discrete territory (its &quot;domain&quot;), which may or may not overlap with the corresponding domain of the other axon. In a preliminary electron microscopic study, we found no evidence for a sharing of single Merkel cells, which are the specialized sensory cells in touch domes, even in the regions of a shared dome where two domains overlapped; each innervated Merkel cell appeared to be contacted by a single nerve ending, implying that in a shared dome each axon probably supplies an exclusive subpopulation of the Merkel cells. We tested for functional collateral sprouting by eliminating one nerve to a shared dome, and at a selected time thereafter mapping the domain of the remaining axon to see whether it had enlarged. The result was the same whether the two domains initially had a region of overlap or not; no expansion of the surviving domain occurred over postoperative periods up to 4 months (an expansion of the domain by 55 micron would have been detected). Thus functional collateral sprouting had failed to occur.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The entire set of giant interneurons (GIs) in the nerve cord of the cockroach, Periplaneta americana, was ablated using either electrolytic or surgical techniques. All animals with these lesions were capable of turning and running away from standard wind puffs. However, all animals responded much less frequently to standard wind stimuli following lesion, and the latency of their responses was significantly increased. These results are discussed in terms of a GI role in extremely short latency escape responses, and the idea that non-GI pathways, perhaps associated with head sensory structures, need to be considered in the normal control of escape in the cockroach.
Computerized tomographic (CT) study of the brain was performed in 15 cases of subacute sclerosing panencephalitis (SSPE). Most patients in Stage II (6/8) had cerebral edema and diffuse white matter low attenuation, and patients in Stages III and IV (5/7) had atrophy of cerebral cortex, brainstem and cerebellum. Low density areas in deep grey matter nuclei (5 cases), large focal areas of white matter hypodensity (3/15) and evidence of brainstem atrophy without cerebral atrophy (2/15) were features not hitherto described. One patient in Stage III had normal scan. Correlation of scan findings was better with the stage of the disease than with the duration of SSPE.
P300 event-related brain potentials (ERPs) were obtained from 20 pairs of male and 20 pairs of female undergraduate subjects. One member of each pair reported having a father who was alcoholic (FHP), the other reported no known alcoholic biological relative (FHN). Pair members were matched on age, height, weight, grade point average, and personal drinking history. Three auditory tasks which differed in stimulus discrimination difficulty were presented to each subject. All tasks employed 20% target and 80% standard tones with the subject required to move their index finger whenever a target stimulus was detected. No significant differences in P300 amplitude or latency were obtained between the family history subject groups, although female FHP subjects tended to have smaller P300 amplitudes than their FHN counterparts. P300 amplitude decreased with increases in the amount of self-reported alcohol consumed for FHP subjects but significantly so only for the most difficult task situation. The results suggest that the relationship between the P300 ERP and the inheritability of alcoholism is not yet clear and may be subject to modulation by task requirements, population differences, and subject sex.
Comparable short latency somaesthetic responses have been observed in the red nucleus and the motor cortex. Since previous experiments showed that a ventral spinal ascending pathway could account for red nucleus responses, the present experiments were designed to establish whether the same pathway could also transmit the short latency peripheral inputs to motor cortex. Two experimental data argue in favour of a such organization: (1) Using the collision technique, it was demonstrated that somaesthetic responses recorded in red nucleus cells are transmitted by collaterals of ascending fibres ending in the ventrobasal thalamus. (2) Intracellular recordings from identified corticospinal cells were performed on cats acutely prepared on section of the brachium conjunctivum and the dorsal columns of the spinal cord. Cortico-cortical connections to motor cortex were also eliminated by lesions of the ipsilateral sensory cortex and contralateral motor cortex. With this preparation it is still possible to record postsynaptic potentials after stimulation of primary afferent fibres in the dorsal columns, caudally to their section. The existence of these somaesthetic parallel inputs to rubro- and corticospinal cells suggest that the ongoing movement might be corrected on-line by these two pathways.
The red nucleus has greatly interested scientists for almost a century. This can be explained by the fact that problems of general interest are encountered when studying this nucleus. Some of them are outlined in this paper, such as the phylogenetic evolution of the rubrospinal tract, the respective roles of the rubrospinal and pyramidal tracts in the execution of various types of movements, and the respective roles of these two tracts in movement automatization.
A variety of putative neurotransmitters has been described in the red nucleus (RN). Measurement of neurotransmitter biochemical markers and study of their specific localizations using morphological techniques in lesion and deafferentation of the RN indicate the participation of glutamate (Glu) in corticorubral transmission and the presence of GABA in RN intrinsic neurones. The cerebellorubral projection may contain at least two populations of fibres, the one using acetylcholine and the other Glu as neurotransmitter. The presence of a serotoninergic input was also demonstrated. Selective deafferentations of the RN, particularly from its cerebellar input, result in biochemical and immunohistochemical responses indicative of increased corticorubral glutamatergic and local GABAergic transmission. These adaptive changes of neuronal transmission as well as the previously described sprouting of corticorubral nerve terminals may contribute to functional recovery after cerebellectomy in adult animals.
In awake chronically implanted cat, the cells in the red nucleus (RN) can be either activated or inhibited by natural stimulation on periphery. The effective stimuli are touching the fur, rotating the joints and tapping the muscles. A somaesthetic map has been constructed with the face area dorsally, the forelimb more ventrally and the hindlimb lateroventrally in the RN. In acute preparations, after ablation of the motor cortex and the cerebellum and section of the dorsal columns of the spinal cord at cervical level, the RN cells were still reacting to natural stimulation of the skin or electrical stimulation of peripheral nerves. The course of the somaesthetic pathway was systematically mapped by microstimulation of the spinal cord. It was shown that it follows the primary afferents which enter the dorsal columns, where they give off collaterals which relay at segment levels. After decussation the fibres ascend the ventromedial quadrant of the cord. A large portion of the fibres relay a second time in the medulla. The existence of such a pathway can account for the somaesthetic responses recorded in the RN in awake cats.
Cerebral ischemia was induced in Mongolian gerbils by bilateral occlusion of the carotid arteries. Subsequent histological assessment revealed neuronal degeneration in the CA1 area of the hippocampus. A functional behavioral change was reflected in an elevation of motor activity compared with sham-operated animals. The degree of hippocampal damage was positively correlated with the increase in motor activity. It is concluded that alterations in both measures result from the interruption of blood flow to the brain but may be brought about by different mechanisms.
TfmLac, a new occurrence of the X-linked mutation testicular feminization, has been isolated in a stock of mice and mapped to the same region as the original TfmH mutation. We compared these two mutants to determine if there are differences in their putative residual androgen receptors or androgen responsiveness. Such differences have been reported for Tfm mutations in humans. We found no evidence for induction of ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) activity in TfmLac despite androgen treatment for up to 3 weeks. This is in agreement with findings for TfmH. Both of these mutants expressed small amounts of androgen binding activity which shared some properties with the normal androgen receptors in mouse kidney. The binding was distinguishable between the two mutants, however, as determined by hormone saturation experiments utilizing DNA-cellulose chromatography. These findings confirm the independence of the two mutations and are consistent with their being allelic: both result in severe deficits of androgen binding and response.
The pineal hormone, melatonin, enhanced the sodium-independent binding of [3H]-gamma-aminobutyric acid ([3H]GABA) and [3H]muscimol in the rat cerebral cortex in vitro. This effect was augmented by preincubation of synaptic membranes with melatonin but was abolished by preincubation with Triton X-100. Saturation binding studies using [3H]GABA (2.5 to 1000 nM) indicated that the melatonin-induced enhancement of binding is due to an increase in low-affinity GABAA binding sites. These findings suggest that the central effects of melatonin involve modulation of GABAergic function.
1. An in vitro receptor autoradiography procedure is described for visualizing binding sites for the excitatory amino acid antagonist radiolabelled MK-801, in rat and gerbil brain sections. 2. Ten micron sections were labelled by incubation at room temperature for 20 min in 30 nM [3H]-MK-801. This was followed by 2 rinses for 20 s in fresh buffer solution. Specifically bound ligand determined with 100 microM unlabelled MK-801 amounted to 55-60% of total. 3. Phencyclidine, (+/-)-SKF 10047, ketamine and 2-aminophosphonovaleric acid (APV) (all 100 microM) prevented the specific binding of [3H]-MK-801. L-Glutamate and N-methyl D-aspartate (NMDA) (100 microM) had no effect. However, L-glutamate prevented the inhibition by APV. 4. The highest concentrations of [3H]-MK-801 binding sites occurred in the hippocampal formation, cerebral cortex, olfactory bulb and thalamus. Very low levels were detected in the brain stem and cerebellum. 5. The distribution of [3H]-MK-801 binding sites was comparable to that of NMDA sites and phencyclidine sites (labelled with [3H]-TCP) but not with high-affinity sigma sites labelled with [3H]-3-PPP. 6. The density of [3H]-MK-801 binding sites in the gerbil hippocampus was examined 1, 2, 6 and 22 days after unilateral carotid artery occlusion for 10 min. Only at 6 and 22 days was the binding reduced (by 36% and 46% respectively) in the CA1 region whereas a significant neuronal loss was apparent at day 2. In CA2 a decrease in binding was only evident at day 22. 7. These results indicate that binding sites for [3H]-MK-801 can be detected in mammalian brain sections by receptor autoradiography. Their distribution supports an association with the NMDA receptor complex and the loss in the hippocampus after carotid artery occlusion indicates their presence on pyramidal cells is vulnerable to ischaemic insult.
It has been suggested that extensive and severe remote memory loss is not a component of a circumscribed amnesic syndrome but may be attributable to problem solving and retrieval deficiencies associated with the frontal lobe damage which is present in some amnesic patients. In order to assess this notion, retrograde amnesia was studied in a patient, W.H., who had no apparent cortical damage revealed by radiological examination, and who evidenced no major cognitive deficiency other than amnesia. Regardless of whether remote memory was measured by recall or recognition procedures, patient W.H. exhibited impaired memory for information from the 1960s, 1970s, and 1980s, but was unimpaired in retrieving information from the 1940s and 1950s. These results demonstrate that retrograde amnesia can occur in patients who have a circumscribed memory deficit.
A trypsin-like endopeptidase which cleaves the synthetic substrate Dansyl-Phe-Leu-Arg-Arg-Ala-Ser-Leu-Gly-COOH (Dansyl-Phe-Kemptide) primarily at the Arg4-Ala5 bond has been partially purified from bovine adrenal chromaffin granules, brain and liver. The enzyme appears to have a relatively homogeneous tissue distribution, although highest levels were found in brain regions such as the hippocampus and corpus striatum. Sucrose density gradient fractionation established that enzyme activity assayed at pH 8.5 is not associated with lysosomes. Purified enzyme displays a dimeric structure with subunit molecular weights of 40 kDa and 42 kDa and a native molecular weight of 85,000 Da. The endopeptidase has a neutral pH optimum, is sensitive to divalent cations and thiol reagents, and can cleave on either the amino or carboxyl side of some but not all internal basic amino acids.
In vitro synthesized complementary RNA (cRNA) transcribed from a non-full length Drosophila choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) cDNA clone will direct the synthesis of enzymatically active and immunologically recognizable protein when injected into Xenopus oocytes. The levels of ChAT activity expressed in injected oocytes are proportional, over 4 orders of magnitude difference, to the concentration of injected 'sense' orientation cRNA. GpppG capping of the in vitro synthesized cRNA is not necessary for expression of active ChAT but inclusion of the capping compound during in vitro transcription results in higher levels of enzyme expression at lower levels of cRNA injection. In addition the capped cRNA results in increasing ChAT expression by the oocytes up to 7 days after injection while uncapped cRNA results in maximum enzyme activity after a single day and decreasing levels of activity during subsequent days. A single immunologically detectable protein is produced by oocytes injected with 'sense' cRNA which has a molecular size of 75 kDa and is indistinguishable from the major form of ChAT present in Drosophila. Oocytes making enzymatically active ChAT also accumulate significant levels of acetylcholine. We conclude from these results that our our non-full length Drosophila ChAT cDNA clone contains all the necessary coding information to make a functional protein which appears to have the same size and activity as native Drosophila ChAT.
The GABAergic properties of dissociated neurons from cerebral cortex of neonatal rats were studied in primary culture using electrophysiological, biochemical and immunohistochemical methods. Cultured neurons had a resting potential of -50 to -60 mV and exhibited spontaneous excitatory and inhibitory synaptic currents. Non-spontaneous (elicited) ionic currents were produced by direct application of GABA and glutamate. Cultures contained measurable amounts of GABA from the first day in culture; GABA content reached a plateau around the 10th day of culture, and continued, nearly unchanged, until the 21st day of culture. Immunohistochemistry showed that 45% of the total cells in culture contained glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD). Octadecaneuropeptide (ODN), a putative neuroregulatory peptide for benzodiazepine recognition sites, was present in approximately 28% of all neurons. Ninety-three percent of ODN-positive cells demonstrated GABAergic properties as well by displaying GAD-immunoreactivity. The peptide GABA-modulin (GM), a putative GABA receptor modulator, was found in about 75% of all neurons, with a further 65% of these cells exhibiting GAD-immunoreactivity. Cells immunopositive for neuropeptide Y (NPY), somatostatin (SRIF), and cholecystokinin-octapeptide (CCK), were found at much lower incidence (1-4%). Double-labelling studies showed that 90-97% of the cells positive for NPY, SRIF and CCK were also positive for GAD. Cells immunoreactive with serotonin or tyrosine hydroxylase were not detected. We suggest that primary cultures of neonatal cortical neurons may provide a useful experimental model to investigate the function and the modulation of GABAergic neurotransmission in the cerebral cortex.

Previous studies of the motor cortex in behaving animals were focused on the relations between the activity of single cells, usually pyramidal tract neurons, and parameters of isometric contraction (e.g., intensity of force) or parameters of movement along one axis (e.g., flexion-extension) of a single joint (e.g., elbow or wrist). However, the commonly meaningful behavioral parameter is the trajectory of the hand in extrapersonal space, which is realized by simultaneous motions about two or three joints (e.g., elbow, shoulder, wrist) and concurrent engagement of several muscles. The spatial parameters of a straight trajectory are its direction and extent. We hypothesized that a major function of the motor cortex, among other possible roles, is the specification and control of the direction of the movement trajectory in space. This reference of motor cortical function to the control of spatial aspects of the trajectory differentiated our approach from the other approaches outlined above. We investigated the directional selectivity cells in the arm area of the motor cortex by recording their activity while monkeys moved their hands in various directions in space towards visual targets. There were two salient findings of these studies. First, the intensity of the discharge of single cells varies in an orderly fashion with the direction of movement in space, so that the discharge rate is highest with movements in a preferred direction, and decreases progressively with movements made in directions more and more away from the preferred one. Thus single cells are broadly tuned around a preferred direction which differs among different cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The diagnosis and therapy of the depressive disorders has entered a new era in the 80s. Though primarily driven by breakthroughs in the neurosciences, such as neuroendocrinology, neurochemistry, and psychopharmacology, the increased sophistication of our diagnostic procedures and therapies of these disorders is by no means limited to the biomedical laboratory. A move away from preconceived concepts of the causes and course of depression has ushered in an era of empirical investigation of the clinical presentation and clinical course of the depressive disorders. This empirical approach has contributed to a new wave of epidemiologic investigations. The psychiatrist's diagnostic and therapeutic approach to the depressive disorders, more so than with any other primary psychiatric disorder, closely parallels the approach of physicians from other specialties, and has thereby increased the bond between psychiatry and the other medical specialties. Some caution, however, must be expressed. First, depressive disorders are considered by many primary care physicians to be easily understood and managed, or to be unworthy of serious attention. The requirement for specialty care in the management of treatment-resistant depressive disorders is as essential as the requirement for the coronary care unit in treating the unstable cardiac patient. In addition, the movement toward the medical management of the depressive disorders should not bias the clinician to the point that he neglects these illnesses and the patients who suffer them. We may view the depressive disorders as being primarily of biomedical causes, but patients still interpret their depressive symptoms within the context of their values, their lifestyles, and the events that impact them.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Extracellular matrix and cell surface proteoglycans are thought to play important roles in neural development and regeneration. Central nervous system proteoglycans have been isolated and characterized from rat and sheep brain and from chick neural retina. An experimental advantage offered by the latter tissue is that it is avascular and can be isolated free of connective tissue and pigment epithelium. Therefore, proteoglycans synthesized by this tissue are derived exclusively from neural cells. However, it has not yet been determined whether neurons and photoreceptors contribute to proteoglycan synthesis or whether these molecules are largely glial in origin. In the present study we have addressed this question using cultures of chick neural retinal cells free of flat, glial-like cells. Proteoglycans synthesized by cultures of retinal neurons, photoreceptors, and undifferentiated, process-free round cells from 8-day embryonic chick neural retina were metabolically labeled in vitro using [35S]sulfate and [3H]glucosamine as precursors. Radiolabeled proteoglycans accumulated in the medium, and could also be extracted from the cell layer by sequential treatments with Triton X-100 and with guanidine HCl. The proteoglycans were isolated by ion-exchange chromatography, and characterized by gel filtration chromatography and by susceptibility to degradation by enzymatic and chemical treatments. Overall, heparan sulfate proteoglycans were the predominant type of proteoglycan synthesized in vitro by the cultured neural retinal cells at this developmental stage. The medium and the Triton extract contained different proportions of both chondroitin sulfate and heparan sulfate proteoglycans, while heparan sulfate was the only proteoglycan recovered from the guanidine extract. These studies demonstrate that heparan sulfate and chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans are actively synthesized by cultures of neural retinal cells free of flat, glial-like cells.
A group of 347 children who had been classed as 'at risk' in the neonatal period were examined by means of academic attainment tests and teacher ratings at the end of their first year in primary school. Matched classroom controls were also examined to estimate the prevalence of reading, spelling and mathematics difficulties. Preterm birth and low birthweight appeared to be significant antecedents of poorer outcome in all three subjects. The attributable risk of low birthweight to academic handicap was estimated to be 29 per cent. There was no additional effect of time to spontaneous respiration (short and long) on academic outcome for the preterm low-birthweight group. In contrast, poor outcome for the low-birthweight children who had not been preterm was associated with longer time to spontaneous respiration. Graduates of neonatal intensive care with normal birthweights performed comparably with their low-risk controls. These results are discussed in relation to other longitudinal studies of the outcome for 'at-risk' infants.
Rats fed a restricted diet during gestation and lactation gave birth to pups with about 60% the normal birthweight. Maintaining the undernutrition after birth reduced the rate of growth of the pups so that their body weights were only 40% of control at PN7. Soleus and lumbrical muscles in these animals had reduced numbers of muscle fibres, and quantitative examination of embryonic muscles revealed that this was due solely to a decreased formation of secondary myotubes; the number of primary myotubes remained normal. Undernutrition did not affect the number of motoneurones surviving normal developmental death. Restoration of normal dietary intake on E21, one day before birth, did not correct the deficit in muscle fibre numbers in soleus muscles examined when the animals reached one month of age. Development of the lumbrical muscle lags behind the soleus and unrestricted feeding from E21 onwards allowed a normal number of fibres to develop from this time on, although the initial deficit was never restored. These experiments define a critical period in muscle development during which the potential maximum number of secondary myotubes is determined.
Two subtypes of pituitary gonadotropes are known to exist: monohormonal and multihormonal. When separated by centrifugal elutriation monohormonal cells are found in the small fractions whereas multihormonal cells predominate in the large gonadotrope-enriched fractions. Since GnRH is known to shift the proportion of subtypes to cells that are mainly multihormonal, we tested its effect on the small monohormonal gonadotropes. Dispersed cells from cycling female rats were plated on glass coverslips overnight. Storage was evaluated by application of dual immunocytochemical stains with anti-LH beta and anti-FSH beta to cells stimulated with 0.5 nM [D-Lys6]GnRH. Secretion was detected by the reverse hemolytic plaque assay for LH and a newly developed RHPA for FSH. After 4 h of GnRH stimulation, the percentage of total gonadotropes was increased only in fraction (Fr.) 3 [13.9 +/- 0.4% (+/- SE) to 25.2 +/- 2%]. However, cells in Fr. 2 responded with an increase in multihormonal cells from 18.2 +/- 7% to 46.2 +/- 5%, a proportion not different from that in gonadotrope-enriched fractions. GnRH had less striking effects on changing the size or number of LH and FSH plaques. It seems, therefore, that these small gonadotropes are multipotential and respond initially to stimulation by synthesizing and storing the other gonadotropin. In contrast, the large gonadotropes (Frs. 6 and 7) showed no significant changes in storage patterns. Gonadotropes in both fractions were predominantly multihormonal. The LH and FSH reverse hemolytic plaque assays run with cells from Fr. 7 showed striking increases in both the number of plaque-forming cells and the area of the plaques in response to GnRH. However, in the multihormonal cells in Fr. 6, which were 53.5 +/- 9% of the total cell population, a heterogeneous secretory pattern was observed. In the basal state, there were 36.6 +/- 9% LH and only 2.7 +/- 2% FSH plaques, whereas after GnRH stimulation there were 43.1 +/- 10% LH and 10.5 +/- 4% FSH plaques. This finding is the first direct evidence for nonparallel release of gonadotropins from cells known to store both hormones. These studies show that gonadotrope subpopulations exhibit differences in their storage and secretory responses to GnRH. It is suggested that other factors may be required for the release of FSH from unresponsive gonadotropes in Fr. 6.
Internodal Schwann cell fingers were present in the lumbar, cervical, and thoracic spinal roots of adult mice at the age of 3 months, but they were not recognized in five mice examined at the age of 3 weeks. In the L4 ventral roots of ICR mice aged 3 months, the incidence of internodal Schwann cell fingers was 0.79% at the central-peripheral transitional zone and 2.43% at the distal regions, respectively. The ratio of axon diameter to total fiber diameter of myelinated fibers with internodal Schwann cell fingers was lower than that of fibers without them. Therefore, we conclude that internodal Schwann cell fingers are probably related to the developmental increase in the thickness of the myelin sheaths in the ventral spinal roots at all levels of the spinal cord.

Twenty EEG recordings obtained in children showed temporo-parieto occipital or temporo-occipital spikes or spike-wave complexes suppressed by eye-opening. Patients showed different neurological syndromes: classic migraine, vertebrobasilar migraine, visual phenomena, epilepsy, psychomotor retardation. Thirteen subjects were affected by epileptic seizures, which were preceded by visual phenomena in 12 cases. In 6 cases, a combination of classic migraine, visual phenomena and seizures was found. In one case of vertebrobasilar migraine, seizures occurred 5 years after the first episode of migraine. Follow-up data indicate a non-benign evolution of occipital epilepsy: partial or generalized seizures persisted in 13 treated cases. Moreover, the EEG finding of occipital spike-wave complexes seems to extend to different neurological syndromes.
In the following communication the major neurotransmitter systems postulated to be involved in the pathophysiology of Tourette's syndrome are discussed. Malfunctions of the opioid and serotoninergic systems are discussed regarding their role in the pathophysiology of the neuropsychological, behavioural and other manifestations of the disease.
One hundred consecutive women attending psychiatric services at NIMHANS during the period of January 1987 - March 1987 were studied to see differences in demographic profile, presenting complaints and psychiatric diagnosis in the two different age groups (25-35 years and 40-50 years). The majority of patients in age group 40-50 years (Perimenopausal) were illiterate, multiparous and coming from a rural Hindu background. Somatic, depressive/somatic features were commonest presenting complaints (66%). Most of the perimenopausal women were suffering from affective/neurotic syndromes (87%). 21 % of the women (age group 40-50 years) had associated physical problems.
Intrahypothalamic injections of the excitotoxin N-methyl-D,L-aspartic acid (NMA) that destroyed the parvocellular regions of the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) prevented gonadal regression in male hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus) kept in short days (LD 6:18). After 17 weeks in short days, these NMA-injected animals had large, functional gonads and displayed all components of male sexual behavior. These findings confirm that neurons of the PVN are part of the pathway that mediates photoperiodism in hamsters.
A circadian biologic time structure of grooming behavior may be detected on the basis of chronobiologic procedures. Results are presented and discussed in the broader scope of a series of behavioral chronobiologic studies with comparison of standard biometric and rhythmometric analyses. Moreover, such experiments provide a quantitative approach for a better functional understanding of psychophysiological mechanisms regulating the stress-related grooming behavior. Such circadian studies show also that chronobiology raises some working hypotheses in experimental psychology and permits the development of new heuristic concepts in the field of behavioral neuroscience.
To determine which dimensions of the Older Americans Resources and Services (OARS) would best predict the status of the medically disabled elderly, veteran inpatients, outpatients, and nonpatient volunteers were administered the multidimensional functional assessment portion of the OARS. To determine whether any of the OARS subscales would be related to age-related functional deficits in this population, serial learning and differential reaction time were also assessed in these three groups of participants. Inpatients showed significantly more impaired ratings on all five of the OARS subscales than the outpatients and nonpatients, while outpatients were more impaired than nonpatients on two of the subscales (mental health and activities of daily living). However, physical health and mental health were the only OARS subscales consistently related to serial learning and reaction time performance. These data provide information about the validity of the OARS when used to assess the medically disabled elderly, and suggest a profile of variables that may contribute to overall dysfunctioning in the medically disabled elderly person.
Hydrophobic interaction chromatography has been used to demonstrate an increase in the surface hydrophobicity of [3H]triamcinolone acetonide ([3H]TA)-labeled type II receptors in mouse brain cytosol following transformation of these receptor complexes to the activated DNA-binding form. After removing unbound [3H]TA and molybdate (which prevents activation) by gel filtration, [3H]TA-type II receptors were activated by incubation at 22 degrees C for 20 min. Gel filtration was then used to remove newly dissociated steroid and to readjust the molybdate and/or KCl concentration. Unactivated and activated receptors were then added to propyl, butyl, pentyl, hexyl, octyl, decyl, and dodecyl alkyl agarose, phenyl agarose, or unmodified agarose columns equilibrated and eluted with buffers of various molybdate and KCl concentrations and/or other additions, including glycerol, ethylene glycol, and urea. Under high-salt conditions, activated receptors were retained longer than unactivated receptors run on butyl, pentyl, hexyl, and phenyl agaroses. With the longer alkyl chain columns, essentially none of the [3H]TA was eluted in association with receptor macromolecules. Removal of the remaining steroid required receptor denaturation with urea. Under low-salt conditions, both receptor forms were retained more avidly on all alkyl agarose columns; however, on phenyl agarose only activated receptors displayed this increased retention. Further studies revealed that optimal separation and subsequent recovery of unactivated and activated [3H]TA-type II receptor complexes were achieved on pentyl agarose columns equilibrated and eluted with buffers containing 50 mM molybdate and 600-1,200 mM KCl.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Regional transport of 1-aminocyclohexanecarboxylic acid (ACHC), a nonmetabolizable amino acid, across the blood-brain barrier was studied in pentobarbital-anesthetized rats using an in situ brain perfusion technique. The concentration dependence of influx was best described by a model with a saturable and a nonsaturable component. Best-fit values for the kinetic constants of the frontal cortex equaled 9.7 X 10(-4) mumol/s/g for Vmax, 0.054 mumol/ml for Km, and 1.0 X 10(-4) ml/s/g for KD in the absence of competing amino acids. Saturable influx could be reduced by greater than 85% by either L-phenylalanine or 2-aminobicyclo[2.2.1]heptane-2-carboxylic acid, consistent with transport by the cerebrovascular neutral amino acid transport system. The transport Km for ACHC was one-fifth that for the more commonly used homologue, 1-aminocyclopentanecarboxylic acid, and was similar to values for several natural amino acids, such as L-methionine, L-isoleucine, and L-tyrosine. The results indicate that ACHC may be a useful probe for in vivo studies of amino acid transport into brain.
N-Acetylated-alpha-linked acidic dipeptidase (NAALADase) is a Cl- dependent, membrane bound, metallopeptidase that cleaves the endogenous neuropeptide N-acetyl-L-aspartyl-L-glutamate (NAAG) in vitro. To examine the pattern of NAALADase expression in the CNS, subcellular, regional, and developmental studies were conducted. Subcellular fractionation of lysed synaptosomal membranes revealed a substantial enrichment of the peptidase in synaptic plasma membranes as compared to mitochondrial or myelin subfractions. Regional studies reveal an apparent restriction of peptidase activity to kidney and brain. A threefold variation in specific activity was observed among brain regions, with highest specific activity in the cerebellum and lowest in telencephalic structures, a pattern that does not, in general, correlate with NAAG levels. Ontogenetic studies demonstrate a region-dependent, postnatal pattern of expression of NAALADase activity, with adult levels attained earliest in brainstem, as was previously reported for NAAG. Postnatal NAALADase expression would not appear to support a role for the peptidase in constitutive protein processing, but rather suggests that NAALADase may play a role in synaptic peptide degradation. Glutamate (Glu) excised from NAAG by NAALADase could be transported efficiently by uptake processes. Lesion studies, however, do not support a close structural association between NAALADase activity and the corticostriatal sodium-dependent, high-affinity, Glu uptake system. Similar to in vitro data documenting the route of NAAG degradation by NAALADase, after intrastriatal injection, NAAG was rapidly cleaved to two major products, N-acetyl-aspartate and Glu, with a t1/2 of approximately 10 min. Thus, the route of in vivo catabolism of NAAG parallels results from studies on NAALADase activity in vitro. These results are consistent with a role of NAALADase in the synaptic processing of NAAG. However, certain discrepancies in the regional and ontogenetic profiles of NAAG and NAALADase suggest that this relationship is not an exclusive one and may reflect a role for NAALADase on additional N-acetylated acidic peptides in vivo.
The properties of muscimol, beta-carboline (BC), and benzodiazepine (BZD) binding to crude synaptic membranes were studied in the spinal cord and cerebellum of rats. In cerebellar membranes, the density of high-affinity [3H]muscimol and [3H]6,7-dimethoxy-4-ethyl-beta-carboline ([3H]BCCM) binding sites is almost identical to that of [3H]flunitrazepam ([3H]FLU) or [3H]flumazenil (Ro 15-1788; ethyl-8-fluoro-5,6-dihydro-5-methyl-6-oxo-4H-imidazo[1,5-a] [1-4]benzodiazepine-3-carboxylate). In contrast to the cerebellum, the number of muscimol and BC binding sites in rat spinal cord is approximately 20-25% of the number of FLU or flumazenil binding sites. Moreover, in spinal cord membranes, BC recognition site ligands displace [3H]-flumazenil bound to those sites, with low affinity and a Hill slope significantly less than 1; the potency of the different BCs in displacing [3H]flumazenil is 20-50-fold lower in the spinal cord than in the cerebellum. [3H]Flumazenil is not displaced from spinal cord membranes by the peripheral BZD ligand Ro 5-4864 (4'-chlorodiazepam), whereas it is displaced with low affinity and a Hill slope of less than 1 (nH = 0.4) by CL 218,872 (3-methyl-6-(3-trifluoromethylphenyl)-1,2,4-triazolol[4,3-b] pyridazine). These data suggest that a large number of BZD binding sites in spinal cord (approximately 80%) are of the central-type, BZD2 subclass, whereas the BZD binding sites in cerebellum are predominantly of the central-type, BZD1 subclass.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In primary cultures of cerebellar granule cells, [3H]nitrendipine binds with high affinity to a single site (KD 1 nM and Bmax 20 fmol/mg protein). The 1,4-dihydropyridine (DHP) class of compounds such as nitrendipine, nifedipine, and BAY K 8644 displace [3H]nitrendipine binding at nanomolar concentrations. Verapamil partially inhibits whereas diltiazem slightly increases the [3H]nitrendipine binding. In these cells, the calcium influx that is induced by depolarization is very rapid and is blocked by micromolar concentrations of inorganic calcium blockers such as cadmium, cobalt, and manganese. The calcium influx resulting from cell depolarization is potentiated by BAY K 8644 and partially inhibited (approximately 40%) by nitrendipine and nifedipine. Other non-DHP voltage-sensitive calcium channel (VSCC) antagonists, such as verapamil and diltiazem, completely blocked the depolarization-induced calcium influx. This suggested that nitrendipine and nifedipine block only a certain population of VSCCs. In contrast, verapamil and diltiazem do not appear to be selective and block all of VSCCs. Perhaps some VSCCs can be allosterically modulated by the binding site for the DHPs, whereas verapamil and diltiazem may block completely the function of all VSCCs by occupying a site that differs from the DHP binding site.
Radioligand binding studies with the water-soluble cannabinoid [3H]5'-trimethylammonium delta 8-tetrahydrocannabinol ([3H]TMA) have revealed a saturable high-affinity site in brain that is specific for cannabinoids. To determine whether endogenous compounds of brain might act upon the site physiologically, we sought inhibitors in extracts of brain. An endogenous inhibitor has been purified to homogeneity by acid extraction of rat brain followed by adsorption to a reverse-phase matrix and gel filtration chromatography. The purified inhibitor has a subunit molecular mass of 14,500 daltons by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE). Inhibition of [3H]TMA binding by the purified inhibitor occurs with a Ki of about 4 nM in a noncompetitive manner. The molecular weight, abundance, and extraction properties are the same as a species of myelin basic protein (MBP). The MBPs of rat, rabbit, pig, and cow also inhibit [3H]TMA binding noncompetitively with similar potencies. The purified inhibitor comigrates with rat MBP-small form on SDS-PAGE, has a similar amino acid composition, and is recognized by antibody directed against MBP. Studies of fragments of rabbit MBP suggest that the determinants of affinity for the [3H]TMA site are contained primarily within the C-terminal half of the rabbit MBP. Synthetic polycationic peptides such as polylysine and polyarginine mimic the effects of MBP, suggesting that the high-affinity cannabinoid binding site recognizes large polycations. The identification of the endogenous inhibitor of [3H]TMA binding as MBP suggests that MBP interacts physiologically with the high-affinity cannabinoid site.
The phenomenon termed 'double myelination', present in sympathetic nerve of normal adult rats and mice, comprises regions of a myelinated axon which are concentrically ensheathed by additional (outer) myelinating Schwann cells. Evidence has been presented that in some instances the outer Schwann cell fails to make contact with an axon, yet its myelin sheath characteristically remains ultrastructurally intact. The present study has sought to identify and analyse configurations intermediate between single and double myelination, in order to determine the mechanism(s) underlying the formation of double ensheathment. Superior cervical ganglia from normal male mice aged 12-24 months were prepared for electron microscopy by systemic aldehyde perfusion. Regions of interest were extensively serial-sectioned for detailed electron microscopical analysis and reconstruction. The earliest evidence for alteration to the expected intimate ensheathment of axons by myelinating Schwann cells involved invasion of supernumerary Schwann cells and their processes at the node of Ranvier, resulting in displacement of the paranodal pockets from axonal contact. Similar paranodal displacement occurred at heminodes as a result of lateral extension and invasion of processes from the adjacent Schwann cell (i.e. the cell investing the unmyelinated domain of the axon). Subsequently, processes of the invading cell extended progressively into internodal regions, located at all times between the plasma membranes of the axon and displaced Schwann cell. The cytoplasmic pockets at the remaining paranode were then subject to invasion. At various stages of displacement myelin formation commenced within the invading cell, representing the first acquisition of double myelin ensheathment in the development of the configuration. Involvement of haematogenous cells in displacement was not detected. There was also evidence consistent with paranodal displacement by adjacent pre-existing myelinating cells, but this additional mechanism appeared minor relative to the involvement of (initially) non-myelinating Schwann cells. We found no evidence for the alternative possibility that Schwann cells could synthesize a myelin sheath around a pre-existing myelinated axon de novo, independent of any direct axonal contact. These results are consistent with the well-established requirement for axonal contact by Schwann cells engaging in initial myelin formation, in the sense that the myelin sheath of the outer cell was synthesized prior to its displacement, and that a myelin sheath was not formed by the invading cell until it had invested the axon in a 1:1 relationship.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
This study has examined the structural features and distribution of 'doubly myelinated' axons in normal adult and aged mice. Investigation focused on the superior cervical ganglion (SCG) and paravertebral sympathetic ganglia, which were extensively serial-sectioned for light and electron microscopy. In the SCG, the principal features of doubly myelinated regions were that an apparently normal myelinated axon was enclosed for part of its length by an additional (outer) myelinating Schwann cell. The separate nature of the inner and outer Schwann cells was emphasized by the consistent presence of individual nuclei in each, and by the presence of endoneurial space, often containing collagen fibrils, between the inner and outer cells. In some cases more than a single outer Schwann cell was present, arranged serially along the inner myelinated fibre. While double myelination forms through a mechanism involving displacement of an original myelinating Schwann cell by an interposed Schwann cell (see companion paper), we here provide evidence that in some instances the outer Schwann cell fails to retain any direct axonal contact, either with the axon centrally enclosed within the configuration or with any neighbouring axon. In contrast to the rat, delicate cytoplasmic processes often extended from the lateral extremes of outer Schwann cells. However, again no evidence for axonal contact was found, and similar processes also extended from the paranodal region of some singly myelinated non-displaced Schwann cells. Without exception the outer myelin sheath remained structurally intact, and characteristically underwent a series of conformational changes (progressive infolding of the paranodes and new areas of myelin compaction) which infer a continuing capacity of the outer Schwann cell to translocate myelin-specific components in a co-ordinated manner. A basal lamina was always present on the 'abaxonal' plasma membrane of the outer cell, but not on the 'adaxonal' surface except in areas involved in infolding, thus retaining the polarity which existed at the time of displacement from the axon. At single cross-sectional levels through the SCG, up to approximately 4% of myelinated axons were involved in double myelination. Double myelination was not detected in the sciatic nerve or in the paravertebral ganglia, thus indicating a predilection for the SCG as a site of development of these configurations. Though not challenging the role of the axon in initiating the formation of myelin, these data indicate that in this tissue myelin maintenance does not require direct contact between axonal and Schwann cell plasma membranes.
Infection related to the placement of intracranial pressure (ICP) monitoring systems has been examined closely by practitioners. Review of the literature identifies many factors contributing to infection. In this two-year retrospective study of 52 patients who underwent ICP monitoring, 12 variables were studied: diagnosis, type of monitor, date and place of insertion, duration of monitoring, drainage, frequency of system change or irrigation and personnel involved, dressing changes, range of patient temperatures, culture results, concurrent infections and antibiotic therapy. Practices that minimized infection rates in our patient population are identified as well as implications for nursing practice and quality assurance measures for ICP monitoring.
The American Association of Neuroscience Nurses (AANN) has accepted the concept of nursing diagnosis as one component of a general nursing framework which is designed to direct and evaluate the care of individuals with neuroscience dysfunction. Continuing development of nursing diagnosis as a conceptual basis for neuroscience practice is dependent upon several factors, one of which is research-based identification and validation of defining characteristics associated with nursing diagnoses commonly used in the care of patients with neurologic dysfunction. Defining characteristics are observable signs and symptoms present in the person with the problem. Identification and validation of defining characteristics are essential to the continued development and use of nursing diagnosis in nursing practice. Without clear, specific defining characteristics, neuroscience nurses are unable to effectively assess patients for the signs and symptoms necessary to formulate nursing diagnoses, monitor patient status or evaluate nursing interventions. One way to validate defining characteristics is the use of retrospective design.
Since its inception in 1968 the American Association of Neuroscience Nurses (AANN) has devoted the majority of its energy and resources to establishing and maintaining excellence in continuing education (CE). Building and sustaining a program for CE is both challenging and rewarding. AANN, accredited as a provider and approver of CE in nursing by the American Nurses' Association, has awarded hundreds of contact hours to individuals and AANN chapters. It now has the authority to approve CE for any organization or individual meeting specific criteria. In order to promote ongoing growth of its CE program, and thus the knowledge of nurses caring for neuroscience patients, AANN encourages groups and individuals to provide CE and offers this article as assistance. The article defines terms, addresses components of development of CE and offers the opportunity to earn contact hours.
The incidence of pulmonary compromise in neuromuscular disease is a well-established phenomenon. Classic symptoms of impending respiratory failure may be absent or nebulous however, in the neuromuscular patient. It is for this reason, that the neuroscience nurse should develop expertise in both the neuro and pulmonary sciences. The focus of this article will be on two neuromuscular patient populations at high risk of respiratory failure--myasthenics and those with Guillain-Barr Syndrome.
In the isolated rat vas deferens the release and intraneuronal disposition of endogenous norepinephrine (NE) were compared with those of newly synthesized or exogenous radioactive NE by preloading tissues with trace amounts of tritiated dopamine ([3H]DA) or tritiated NE ([3H]NE) and measuring release of radioactive and endogenous NE and dihydroxyphenylglycol (DHPG). Tissues were examined before and during electrical simulation, exposure to tyramine or exposure to depolarizing concentrations of K+. In [3H]DA-preloaded tissues the [3H]DA was converted readily to [3H]NE. Newly synthesized radioactive NE formed from exogenous [3H]DA was distributed differently from endogenous NE within at least two intraneuronal pools. One pool contained a high concentration (high specific activity) of newly synthesized [3H]NE and less than 3% of the total NE content of the tissues, and it released NE more readily than the larger low specific activity pool which contained over 95% of the total tissue NE content. Exogenous [3H]NE in [3H]NE-preloaded vasa deferentia was distributed among at least three different tissue pools, one consisting of extraneuronally bound NE containing [3H]NE of high specific activity, and two intraneuronal pools containing [3H]NE of intermediate and low specific activity in which NE was released from the intermediate specific activity pool more readily than from the low specific activity pool.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The recognition of muscarinic cholinergic receptors (mAChRs) in human SK-N-SH neuroblastoma cells by hydrophilic (quaternary) and lipophilic (tertiary) ligands has been examined. When quiescent cells were incubated at 37 degrees, the same maximum number of mAChRs was revealed by antagonists that possessed either a quaternary nitrogen, e.g., N-methylscopolamine (NMS) and N-methylquinuclidinyl benzilate, or a tertiary nitrogen, e.g., scopolamine and quinuclidinyl benzilate (QNB). If cells were incubated at 0 degree, the quaternary [3H]NMS labeled 15-20% fewer sites than the tertiary [3H]scopolamine; but upon warming to 37 degrees, these inaccessible sites also became labeled. This suggests that mAChRs are present at both cell surface and sequestered sites in this cell, and that an equilibrium exists between the two cellular compartments. In competition studies at 37 degrees, NMS detected a population of [3H]QNB-binding sites which exhibited a very low affinity for the quaternary antagonist. However, the sites were not evident when mAChRs were labeled with [3H]scopolamine, suggesting that factors other than the lipophilic nature of the probe are involved. Although mAChRs were equally accessible to charged and uncharged antagonists at 37 degrees, the quaternary agonist carbamoylcholine competed for the sites labeled by quaternary antagonists with a 10- to 29-fold higher affinity than those labeled by tertiary antagonists, whereas the tertiary agonist OXO-2 displaced all sites with an equal affinity. However, carbamoylcholine competed equally well for [3H]scopolamine-and [3H]NMS-binding sites in either hypotonic cell lysates at 37 degrees or in intact cells maintained at 0 degree. These results suggest that, at 37 degrees, agonists induce the sequestration of cell surface receptors into a lipophilic environment in which receptors become inaccessible to quaternary, but not tertiary, ligands. Addition of NMS inhibited the stimulation of phosphoinositide hydrolysis elicited by either carbamoylcholine or OXO-2. The Ki values were similar for both agonists. It is concluded that mAChRs in SK-N-SH cells cycle between cell surface and sequestered sites. At 37 degrees, this cycling is rapid and all receptors have access to the cell surface compartment, whereas at 0 degree, receptor translocation is prevented and a population of sequestered mAChRs is detected. When cells are exposed to an agonist at 37 degrees, the equilibrium shifts such that more mAChRs are found in a sequestered cell compartment that is inaccessible to quaternary ligands.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
One acid alpha-glucosidase and two neutral alpha-glucosidases were separated from human skeletal muscle by DEAE-cellulose column chromatography. The appearance of the two human neutral alpha-glucosidase isoenzymes was found to be age dependent. We called them &quot;fetal&quot; and &quot;adult&quot; neutral alpha-glucosidases. The biochemical properties of the fetal and adult types of neutral alpha-glucosidases appeared to be similar to those previously reported for neutral alpha-glucosidases AB and C, respectively. The neutral alpha-glucosidase activity in the column eluate of the infantile acid maltase deficiency (AMD; 5-month-old) muscle was completely of the adult type, whereas 18% of the total neutral alpha-glucosidase activity in age-matched control muscle was of the fetal type. In contrast, the eluate of the late-onset AMD (32-year-old) muscle contained both the adult and fetal neutral alpha-glucosidases, 68 and 32%, respectively.
We measured monoamine metabolites and biopterin in the CSF of 37 patients with dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT), with or without extrapyramidal signs, and in 14 age-matched healthy controls. Compared with concentrations in DAT and controls, the concentrations of homovanillic acid (HVA) and biopterin were significantly decreased in DAT with extrapyramidal signs (EDAT). CSF 3-methoxy-4-hydroxy-phenethyleneglycol and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid did not differ significantly among these groups. Age at onset of dementia was positively correlated with CSF HVA (r = 0.49, p less than 0.05). The two dementia groups did not differ significantly in the extent of ventricular dilation as measured by quantitative CT, but EDAT patients had lower Mini-Mental State Examination scores than did DAT patients. When patients were matched for age and dementia severity, CSF HVA and biopterin concentrations remained significantly lower in EDAT than in DAT patients. These results indicate that EDAT patients form a distinct subgroup of DAT with evidence of central monoamine dysfunction.
The growth-associated protein (GAP-43) is considered a crucial component of an effective regenerative response in the nervous system. Its phosphorylation by protein kinase C correlates with long-term potentiation. Sequence analysis of human cDNAs coding for this protein shows that the human GAP-43 gene is highly homologous to the rat gene; this homology extends into the 3'-untranslated region. However, the human protein contains a 10 amino acid insert. Somatic cell hybrids demonstrate localization of the GAP-43 gene to human chromosome 3 and to mouse chromosome 16.
The content of proenkephalin messenger RNA (PEmRNA) in cultured bovine adrenal chromaffin cells was reduced in the presence of reserpine (1 nM to 0.1 microM) with a return to basal levels 3 days after removal of the drug. In these cells, the basal release of Met5-enkephalin-Arg6-Phe7 immunoreactivity (MERF-IR) into the medium was significantly decreased when the cultures were pretreated with 0.2 microM reserpine for 3 days. The addition of 0.1 microM etorphine for 3 days also decreased the basal release of MERF-IR without depleting stores of catecholamines. Neither drug modified the total (cells + medium) amount of MERF-IR. In contrast, reserpine was without effect on levels of PEmRNA or release of Met5-enkephalin immunoreactivity (ME-IR) in primary cultures of the striatum of the fetal rat. The present data establish a correlation between inhibition of the secretion of enkephalin and reduced accumulation of its specific mRNA, suggesting a negative feedback inhibition by low molecular weight enkephalins.
We have employed the retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase alone or conjugated to wheat germ agglutinin, to label neurons within the medullary reticular formation which project to the spinal cord, the diencephalon and the cerebellum at different stages of development in the North American opossum. At selected ages, the fluorescent markers Fast Blue and Diamidino Yellow were also used in double-labeling experiments to determine if single neurons innervate both the spinal cord and diencephalon or the spinal cord and cerebellum, presumably via axonal collaterals. The opossum was employed because it is born in a very immature state, 12 days after conception, and is thus available for injections at early stages of development. At all ages studied, the location of retrograde labeling within the medullary reticular formation after spinal, diencephalic or cerebellar placements of horseradish peroxidase or its conjugate appeared similar to that obtained in the adult animal. Such results suggest that the origin of projections from the medullary reticular formation to the areas injected is specified early in development. At some ages, however, the labeling density appeared greater than in the adult animal. When either Fast Blue or Diamidino Yellow was injected into the spinal cord and the other marker was placed into the diencephalon at such ages, relatively few neurons of the medullary reticular formation were double-labeled. When one marker was injected into the spinal cord and the other was placed within the cerebellum, no double-labeled neurons were found. These results indicate that at the ages studied, relatively few neurons of the medullary reticular formation provide collateral innervation to either the spinal cord and diencephalon or the spinal cord and cerebellum. Similar conclusions have been reached previously for the adult opossum. We have interpreted our results to suggest that the organization of reticular projections, at least to the areas injected, may not be shaped by the selective elimination of axonal collaterals as in certain other areas of the brain.
We combined the retrograde transport of wheat germ agglutinin conjugated with horseradish peroxidase with choline acetyltransferase immunohistochemistry to study the projections of cholinergic and non-cholinergic neurons of the upper brainstem core to rostral and caudal intralaminar thalamic nuclei, reticular thalamic complex and zona incerta in the cat. After wheat germ agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase injections in the rostral pole of the reticular thalamic nucleus, the distribution and amount of retrogradely labeled brainstem neurons were similar to those found after tracer injection in thalamic relay nuclei (see preceding paper). After wheat germ agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase injections in the caudal intralaminar centrum medianum-parafascicular complex, rostral intralaminar central lateral-paracentral wing, and zona incerta, the numbers of retrogradely labeled brainstem neurons were more than three times higher than those found after injections in thalamic relay nuclei. The larger numbers of horseradish peroxidase-positive brainstem reticular neurons after tracer injections in intralaminar or zona incerta injections results from a more substantial proportion of labeled neurons in the central tegmental field at rostral midbrain (perirubral) levels and in the ventromedial part of the pontine reticular formation, ipsi- and contralaterally to the injection site. Of all retrogradely labeled neurons in the caudal midbrain core at the level of the cholinergic peribrachial area and laterodorsal tegmental nucleus, 45-50% were also choline acetyltransferase-positive after the injections into central lateral-paracentral and reticular nuclei, while only 25% were also choline acetyltransferase-positive after the injection into the centrum medianum-parafascicular complex. These findings are discussed in the light of physiological evidence of brainstem cholinergic mechanisms involved in the blockade of synchronized oscillations and in activation processes of thalamocortical systems.
The projections of brainstem core neurons to relay and associational thalamic nuclei were studied in the cat and macaque monkey by combining the retrograde transport of wheat germ agglutinin conjugated with horseradish peroxidase with choline acetyltransferase immunohistochemistry. All major sensory (medial geniculate, lateral geniculate, ventrobasal), motor (ventroanterior, ventrolateral, ventromedial), associational (mediodorsal, pulvinar, lateral posterior) and limbic (anteromedial, anteroventral) thalamic nuclei of the cat were found to receive projections from cholinergic neurons located in the peribrachial area of the pedunculopontine nucleus and in the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus as well as from non-cholinergic neurons in the rostral (perirubral) part of the central tegmental mesencephalic field. Specific relay nuclei receive less than 10% of their brainstem afferents from non-cholinergic neurons located at rostral midbrain levels and receive 85-96% of their brainstem innervation from a region at midbrain-pontine junction where the cholinergic peribrachial area and laterodorsal tegmental nucleus are maximally developed. Of the total number of horseradish peroxidase-positive brainstem neurons seen after injections in various specific relay nuclei, the double-labeled (horseradish peroxidase + choline acetyltransferase) neurons represent approximately 70-85%. Three to eight times more numerous horseradish peroxidase-labeled brainstem cells were found after injections in associational (mediodorsal and pulvinar-lateral posterior complex) and diffusely cortically-projecting (ventromedial) thalamic nuclei of cat than after injections in specific relay nuclei. The striking retrograde cell labeling observed after injections in nuclei with associative functions and widespread cortical projections was due to massive afferentation from non-cholinergic parts of the midbrain and pontine reticular formation, on both ipsi- and contralateral sides. After wheat germ agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase injections in the associative pulvinar-lateral posterior complex and mediodorsal nucleus of Macaca sylvana, 45-50% of horseradish peroxidase-positive brainstem peribrachial neurons were also choline acetyltransferase-positive. While cells in the medial part of the cholinergic peribrachial area were found to project especially towards the pulvinar-lateral posterior nuclear complex in monkey, the retrograde cell labeling seen after the mediodorsal injection was mostly confined to the lateral part of both dorsal and ventral aspects of the peribrachial area.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The distribution and origin of perivascular acetylcholinesterase-active and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-immunoreactive nerve fibers were studied in the rat lower lip by means of acetylcholinesterase histochemistry and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide immunohistochemistry. The perivascular nerve fibers stained intensely with both histochemical techniques and were widely distributed on small arteries and arterioles of the lower lip, especially in the transitional zone between the hairy skin and the mucous membrane. The distributions of the two types of fibers were very similar and most of them showed overlapping coloration, on consecutive staining for vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and acetylcholinesterase. Both acetylcholinesterase-positive and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-immunoreactive fibers were completely lost on removal of the otic ganglion, while they were not affected by sympathetic ganglion removal or sensory nerve sectioning. In the otic ganglion, most cells exhibited acetylcholinesterase activity, and about 60% of the cells showed light to heavy vasoactive intestinal polypeptide immunoreactivity. These findings indicate that vessels in the rat lip are innervated by parasympathetic fibers originating from the otic ganglion and support the view that vasoactive intestinal polypeptide is present in cholinergic neurons. This may suggest the possible control by the parasympathetic nervous system of cutaneous blood vessels through vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-containing cholinergic neurons, in general or at least in the facial area.
A glycoprotein was isolated from detergent solubilized membranes of bovine chromaffin granules by high-performance liquid chromatography. Specific antisera raised against this glycoprotein reacted in one- and two-dimensional immunoblots with a heterogeneous component with a pI of 4.2-4.7 and Mr 100,000. The antiserum against bovine glycoprotein II cross-reacted with an analogous component in several species. The specific localization of glycoprotein II in chromaffin granules was established by density gradient centrifugation followed by immunoblotting. The antiserum, as shown by one- and two-dimensional immunoblotting, reacted with an analogous antigen in the posterior pituitary, in endocrine (anterior pituitary, parathyroid gland) and exocrine (parotid gland, pancreas) organs. In the pancreas the protein reacting with the antiserum was found in the membranes of zymogen granules. The results demonstrate for the first time that secretory vesicles of endocrine and exocrine tissues have at least one common antigen, i.e. the glycoprotein II. It seems likely that this protein is involved in a basic function common to all secretory vesicles.
The distribution of angiotensinogen-like immunoreactivity in the rat brain was investigated using specific antisera against pure rat plasma angiotensinogen in conjunction with the sensitive streptavidin-biotin peroxidase method. Angiotensinogen antisera were shown by radioimmunoassay and Western blotting to recognize angiotensinogen from both rat plasma and cerebrospinal fluid, and to cross-react with des-AI-angiotensinogen (100%) but not with angiotensin I and II, tetradecapeptide, luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone, rat albumin and angiotensinogen from eight other species. Angiotensinogen-like immunoreactivity was detected throughout the rat brain in both neuroglia and neurons. The highest concentration of neuroglial angiotensinogen-like immunoreactivity was in the hypothalamus and preoptic areas, with moderate to heavy concentrations in the mesencephalon and myelencephalon. The cerebellum demonstrated neuroglial staining in the granular layer and fibre tracts. Very little neuroglial staining was noted in the cerebral cortex or olfactory bulbs. Neuronal immunostaining was observed throughout the globus pallidus and the caudate putamen, in various parts of the thalamus and the supraoptic nucleus of the hypothalamus. In the midbrain moderate immunostaining was observed in periaquaductal central gray, the deep mesencephalic nucleus, the inferior colliculus and in scattered cells in the anterior mesencephalon. In the medulla, neuronal staining was localized to the vestibular nuclei and to other cell bodies mainly in the dorsolateral regions. In the cerebellum, staining was noted mainly in the deeper cerebellar nuclei and in the Purkinje cells. Immunostaining in the cerebral cortex was localized to the cingulate cortex and the primary olfactory cortex. Light staining was present in the endopiriform cortex and in scattered neurons adjacent to the external capsule. In the olfactory bulbs light neuronal staining was mainly associated with the mitral cell layer. The widespread distribution of angiotensinogen-like immunoreactivity supports the view that it is synthesized in the central nervous system and forms part of a brain renin-angiotensin system. In addition, its presence at sites other than those normally associated with the control of blood pressure and fluid and electrolyte homeostasis suggests that its involvement may not be limited to these regulatory functions.
Monoclonal antibodies were raised against larval tissues from Xenopus laevis. Two of them which bound to neural tissue were examined for their cytological specificities by indirect immunofluorescence on larval frozen sections. One of the monoclonal antibodies (NM1) had affinity for both neural and muscular tissues, while the other (N1) bound exclusively to neural tissue. NM1 was shown in the neural tissue to possess a high affinity for the axons from a large population of neurons and possibly the radial fibers from ependymal cells as well. On the other hand, N1 showed a high specificity for some cellular elements other than axons in the white matter, most likely dendrites. For both antibodies, binding to cell bodies could not be detected. The spatial and temporal distribution of the NM1 and N1 antigens was investigated. In the mid-trunk region the NM1 antigen in axons was first detected at stage 29/30, nearly 10 h earlier than the N1 antigen (stage 33/34). In a larva at stage 37/38, the axonal NM1 antigen was distributed throughout the nervous system, whereas the distribution of N1 antigen was restricted to the brainstem and the trunk spinal cord. The N1 antigen-positive area continued expanding rostrocaudally with increasing developmental age. The distribution of NM1 and N1 antigens, thus, follows patterns which are consistent with the previously shown general patterns of neuronal process development; the earlier outgrowth of axons than dendrites, and the rostrocaudal gradient in process development. We also examined the two monoclonal antibodies in a cell culture system derived from hatching larvae and found that cytological specificity was substantially conserved; NM1 possessed affinity for both neuronal and muscular cells and N1 bound exclusively to neuronal cells, though N1 bound to cell bodies as well as processes in culture.
Putative GABAergic elements in the pontine nuclei have been studied in the rat, cat and two old world monkeys (Macaca mulatta and Papio papio) using an antiserum against GABA-glutaraldehyde-protein conjugates and the peroxidase-antiperoxidase method. In addition, an antiserum against glutamate decarboxylase has been used in the cat. For comparison, Golgi impregnated material from cat and macaque has been studied. In all species there is a moderately dense plexus of fibres with GABA-like immunoreactivity with only minor regional differences between different parts of the pontine nuclei. The number of cell bodies showing GABA-like immunoreactivity is, however, strikingly different. Thus, in the rat there are very few such neurons. In the cat, they make up about 1% of the total cell population, while the corresponding number in the two primate species is about 5%. The number is consistently somewhat higher in rostral than in caudal parts of the pontine nuclei. Numbers in the cat are essentially the same with the glutamate decarboxylase antiserum as with the GABA antiserum. The size of GABA-like immunoreactivity positive somata is very similar in cat, macaque and baboon, averaging about 160 micron2 in cross-sectional area. The average cross-sectional area of the total neuronal population as measured in adjacent thionin-stained sections is about 280 micron2. However, the range of sizes for GABA-like immunoreactivity positive cells is wide, so that size alone is not a good criterion for their identification. Although their dendritic morphology is varied, a significant proportion of GABA-like immunoreactivity positive cells have very long and straight dendrites. A few examples were found in the primate species of GABA-like immunoreactivity positive cells with processes tentatively identified as axons. Such processes could be seen to divide several times. No such branching processes could be identified, however, in Golgi impregnated material from the same species. In order to determine whether GABA-like immunoreactivity positive cells project to the cerebellum, retrograde tracing of horseradish peroxidase-wheat germ agglutinin was combined with immunocytochemistry. No double labelled cells could be found in the pontine nuclei. Comparison of size distribution of retrogradely labelled pontocerebellar and GABA-like immunoreactivity positive cell bodies showed a high degree of overlap, although the average size of projection neurons and GABA-like immunoreactivity positive ones is clearly different.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The rat brain was examined immunocytochemically for estrogen-dependent changes of oxytocin immunoreactivity at the light microscopical level. Ovariectomized rats were treated with subcutaneous silastic implants with estradiol, or empty implants as controls for 2 days (short term treatment). Another group of rats was injected weekly for 2 months with 1 mg estradiol (long term, high dose treatment). After perfusion fixation serial Vibratome sections were stained with antibodies to oxytocin. In control animals, oxytocin immunoreactive perikarya were found in the magnocellular hypothalamic nuclei. Accessory oxytocin neurons appeared in various hypothalamic sites: immunostained neuronal processes were visible in the preoptic region, the lateral septum, the ventromedial hypothalamus and the median eminence. In short term estradiol treated animals, additional immunoreactive perikarya could be observed in the septohypothalamic nucleus, the lateral subcommissural area, the medial preoptic area, the perifornical region, the zona incerta and the ansa lenticularis. An increased number of immunostained fibers was found in the lateral septum, the preoptic region, the striatum and the amygdala. Animals treated with high doses of estradiol for 2 months showed oxytocin immunostaining only in the paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei and in the median eminence. The distribution of oxytocin immunoreactive neurons in the magnocellular nuclei did not change with changing estradiol levels. Physiological amounts of estrogen given for 2 days increased the number of oxytocinergic neurons visible outside the classical magnocellular nuclei while prolonged, high dose estrogen treatment diminished immunostaining in these oxytocinergic systems.
In Golgi preparations of retinae from macaque monkeys the lengths of the fibres of Henle from photoreceptors, and Mller's fibres were measured. It was shown that the lengths of Mller's fibres provide a good estimate of the lengths of adjacent fibres of Henle of photoreceptors. The fibres form a radiate pattern with respect to the fovea. They are longest at the fovea and their length decreases in a systematic way with distance from the fovea. The implications of the fibre length are considered with respect to the relationship between the ganglion cell distribution and central magnification factors. We show that even when the functional offset introduced by the fibres of Henle and by bipolar and ganglion cells is taken into account there is not a constant proportional relationship between ganglion cells and central magnification factors. The representation of the central few degrees of the visual field on the striate cortex is greater than would be predicted on the basis of the ganglion cell density for the central retina.
Close to the fovea of the primate retina the ganglion cell layer is at its maximal thickness and several layers of cells deep. In whole-mount preparations in which the ganglion cells had been retrogradely labelled to reveal the dendritic trees we have studied the distribution of the different ganglion cell types across the depth of the ganglion cell layer. The ganglion cells which project to the parvocellular layers (P ganglion cells) are found more vitread than those which project to the magnocellular layers (M ganglion cells). The cells which project to the midbrain lie in the outer part of the ganglion cell layer among the M cells and adjacent to the inner plexiform layer. Within the P and M classes of ganglion cell the On-centre cells lie more vitread than the Off-centre cells. These results are discussed with relation to the proportions of different cell types sampled with intraocular recordings from ganglion cells and the possible significance for the development of different types of ganglion cell.
Intracellular methods were used to record fast excitatory postsynaptic potentials in myenteric neurons of the guinea-pig small intestine in vitro. The excitatory postsynaptic potentials were suppressed by hexamethonium, mimicked by acetylcholine and assumed to be mediated by nicotinic cholinergic receptors. Application of histamine either by addition to the superfusion solution or by focal application from fine-tipped pipettes reversibly reduced the amplitude or abolished the excitatory postsynaptic potentials. Postsynaptic responses to focal application of acetylcholine by pressure ejection from micropipettes were either unaffected or were potentiated by histamine. Failure of histamine to affect antidromic action potentials excluded a local anesthetic action on the presynaptic fibers. Neither 2-methylhistamine nor dimaprit, which are selective H1 and H2 agonists respectively, suppressed the excitatory postsynaptic potentials when applied in concentrations nearly one hundred times greater than the ED50 for histamine. The selective H1 and H2 antagonists, pyrilamine and cimetidine did not suppress the inhibitory action of histamine when applied separately or in combination. Based on these results, the presynaptic receptors involved in this inhibitory mechanism appeared to be of a pharmacologically atypical histamine receptor subtype. The putative histamine agonist, N,alpha-methylhistamine, which has been reported to have high stereoselectivity and activity for a receptor subtype classified as H3, potently reduced or abolished the excitatory postsynaptic potentials. The ED50 for N,alpha-methylhistamine was 8.8 nM compared to an ED50 of 220 nM for histamine. Burimamide, a histamine antagonist with higher activity at putative H3 receptors than H2 receptors, effectively reversed the inhibitory action of histamine on the excitatory postsynaptic potentials.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Following conventional glutaraldehyde-osmium tetroxide fixation, a rich myenteric plexus was detected in the gastrointestinal tract of the snail Helix pomatia. Although hundreds of nerve processes were observed in the extensive myoneural neuropil, true synaptic specializations were not recognized in them. In the absence of synaptic specializations, tannic acid-Ringer incubation was applied to visualize the non-synaptic release sites in the enteric nerve plexus. After incubation for 1 h, a great number of exocytosis profiles were recorded at nerve-muscle contacts, at axoglial connections and in the myoneural neuropil. The frequency of occurrence of exocytosis profiles was the same for adrenergic and peptidergic fibres. In some gut wall areas, a dense staining of both basal lamina and collagen fibres was observed. Invagination of dense basal lamina into the omega-shaped profiles of the axolemma led to &quot;false exocytosis&quot; profiles. A detailed morphological analysis is needed to distinguish false exocytosis profiles from the true transmitter-releasing loci.
The enteric neuromuscular junctions of snail (Helix pomatia), locust (Locusta migratoria migratorioides), cockroach (Periplaneta americana), carp (Cyprinus carpio) and tench (Tinca tinca) were studied by means of different light and electron microscopic methods. The nitroblue tetrazolium staining revealed that the myenteric plexuses of the above species are composed of nerve cells, a network of varicose nerves and nerve bundles. Instead of highly organized ganglia, single neurons or small groups of 2-4 cells are characteristic of the invertebrates and fish studied. Catecholaminergic fluorescence induced by glyoxylic acid was detected in the muscular layer of the entire alimentary tract in snail and the hindgut of tench. Fluorescent nerves and perikarya were frequent in the snail gut, while only nerves and no perikarya were found in tench. A close contact between enteric muscles and nerves is the most common form of enteric neuromuscular junction in both the smooth (i.e. the molluscan and fish gut) and the striated (i.e. the insect gut) musculature. The striated musculature (i.e. the insect gut, the oesophagus of carp, and the oesophagus, stomach and the midgut of tench) also receives a synaptic input. Cytochemical evidence is provided of the cholinergic character of fish motor endplates. The ultrastructural appearance and vesicle population of certain nerve terminals suggest a universal role of aminergic and peptidergic control in gut motility.
In the cerebellum there is scant evidence for cholinergic transmission but a large amount of acetylcholinesterase. Although it exists most commonly in a membrane-bound form, the release of a soluble form of this enzyme, within the cerebrum, has indicated that it may have a novel non-cholinergic role. In order to understand why the cerebellum is rich in acetylcholinesterase, the first step has been to investigate the possibility of its release in this structure. Following unilateral application of a depolarizing concentration of potassium ions, there was a large, sustained, calcium-dependent increase in release of acetylcholinesterase, specifically in the local cerebellar cortex; a marked enhancement of acetylcholinesterase release also occurred in the contralateral cerebellum, suggesting that the phenomenon reflected polysynaptic neuronal events. Indeed, systemic administration of harmaline, which modifies activity in certain cerebellar afferent pathways, induced a significant increase in acetylcholinesterase release in the cerebellar cortex. Local administration of the cholinomimetic, carbachol, had no effect. It is concluded that acetylcholinesterase is released from cerebellar neurons in association with physiological events, yet unrelated to cholinergic transmission.
Relationships between cholinergic neurons and adrenergic fibers in the intermediate region of the rat thoracic spinal cord were examined using a new immunohistochemical double-staining method for light and electron microscopic observations. Cholinergic neurons were labeled by a monoclonal antibody to choline acetyltransferase and stained bluish green by 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-beta-D-galactoside reaction products using beta-galactosidase as a marker. On the same sections, adrenergic fibers were labeled by a polyclonal antiserum to phenyl-ethanolamine-N-methyltransferase and stained brown by diaminobenzidine reaction products using peroxidase as a marker. After embedding in Epon, the sections were examined in the light and electron microscopes. In the light microscope, choline acetyltransferase-like immunoreactive cells were seen in the four discrete areas of the intermediate region: the principal intermediolateral nucleus, the central autonomic nucleus, the intercalated nucleus and the funicular intermediolateral nucleus. These cell groups seemed to be connected to each other by their processes, and they showed a &quot;ladder-like appearance&quot; as a whole. Phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase-like immunoreactive fibers were present only along this &quot;ladder-like structure&quot; and were the most rich in the principal intermediolateral nucleus. In the electron microscope, some of the choline acetyltransferase-like immunoreactive neurons, which were identified by light micrographs, were found to receive synaptic inputs from phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase-like immunoreactive boutons in the principal intermediolateral nucleus. These findings suggest that the adrenergic axons in the principal intermediolateral nucleus directly affect the activity of the cholinergic preganglionic sympathetic neurons.
The motor output to the lateral rectus eye muscle was studied in decerebrate cats with electromyographic recordings and in alert cats with multi-unit and single neuron recordings from abducens nucleus. The axis of rotation that produced maximal excitation of the lateral rectus was calculated from responses to rotations in many different stimulus orientations, and was found to lie near the axis of the horizontal semicircular canals, but pitched slightly nose down from the canal axis (4.6 degrees). The results from decerebrate and alert cats were in agreement. The dynamics of lateral rectus activation were quite similar in all planes. Responses at high frequencies were in phase with rotation velocity and responses lagged toward position phase as frequency and velocity were decreased. Differences in decerebrate cat low frequency responses to rotations with and without a sinusoidal gravitational stimulus implicated an otolith input to lateral rectus.
The detailed distribution of neuropeptide Y immunoreactive neurons and fibres is given for the rat locus coeruleus. The studies were carried out using indirect immunofluorescence and avidin-biotin-peroxidase techniques. It was shown that in colchicine pretreated rats, about 15-20% of locus coeruleus neurons contain neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity. Neuropeptide Y immunoreactive neurons form two populations: (1) medium-sized or large neurons, poorly immunostained, situated mainly in the dorsal and central locus coeruleus nucleus, and (2) small, strongly immunostained neurons in ventromedial parts of the nucleus. Neuropeptide Y immunoreactive fibres and terminals are scattered throughout the locus coeruleus, but are more numerous in its ventromedial and ventrorostral parts.
Several antibodies directed against the heterogeneous microtubule-associated protein group tau have been used to determine the immunocytochemical localization of these proteins in the developing rat cerebellum. Immunoblot analysis of brain extracts showed that both monoclonal and polyclonal anti-tau antibodies revealed not only the adult tau proteins (50,000-70,000 mol. wt) but also the immature (48,000 mol. wt) tau form. Immunocytochemical studies showed that, whatever the stage of development, anti-tau antibodies stained several types of axonal fibres. The Purkinje cell bodies and their dendrites were never significantly labelled. This means that immature tau is, as adult tau, localized essentially in axons. Axonal labelling seems to follow the cerebellar developmental pattern. For instance, the climbing fibres which reach the cerebellum during the embryonic life were stained soon after birth by the anti-tau antibodies. In contrast, the parallel fibres, that begin to develop perinatally, do not express tau at early (5 days) postnatal stages; a clear labelling of the deeper parallel fibres (which are more mature than the superficial ones) was seen at day 10 after birth in the vicinity of the developing dendrites of the Purkinje cells. This suggests that (1) the appearance of tau immunoreactivity reflects a certain stage of maturity of the parallel fibre; (2) both immature and mature tau microtubule-associated proteins seem to be axon specific in the developing rat cerebellum.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Using immunocytochemical method in conjunction with antibodies to tyrosine hydroxylase and phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase, catecholaminergic cell groups and axon pathways are mapped in the human hind brain. Adrenergic perikarya are located mainly in the rostral medulla, as in lower animals, and contribute a subset of axons to the main longitudinal catecholaminergic bundle which runs through the medulla oblongata, pons and midbrain such as the dorsal part of the central nucleus of the medulla oblongata, the parvocellular reticular formation ventromedial to the facial nerve and ventrolateral to the locus coeruleus. Adrenergic terminals are present in the locus coeruleus and other medullary and pontine structures. The locus coeruleus contains only tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive cells and appears to be the source of a discrete dorsal catecholaminergic bundle which runs through the central tegmental field just ventrolateral to the periaqueductal gray of the rostral pons and mesencephalon and which does not contain adrenergic axons. A ventral catecholaminergic bundle arising in the medullary cells does contain a subset of adrenergic axons in the mesencephalic tegmental field. These two longitudinal axon bundles run near each other in the mesencephalic reticular formation. Additional descriptions are provided of catecholaminergic axons near the dorsal and ventral surface of the human medulla.
Electrical stimulation of the preganglionic cervical sympathetic trunk produces an acute increase in the rate of DOPA synthesis in the rat superior cervical ganglion. The present study was designed to test the possibility that this acute transsynaptic stimulation of catechol biosynthesis could be, at least in part, a consequence of an increase in the firing rate of the postganglionic sympathetic neurons. For this purpose, the effect of stimulation in vitro of the preganglionic cervical sympathetic trunk was compared to that of stimulation of the predominantly postganglionic internal and external carotid nerves. Stimulation of the cervical sympathetic trunk at 10 Hz for 30 min produced a 4.6-fold increase in DOPA synthesis, while simultaneous stimulation of the two postganglionic trunks produced a 3.1-fold increase. The internal carotid nerve is known to contain a small population of preganglionic fibers that synapse on principal neurons in the ganglion before entering this nerve trunk. To eliminate the possibility that the effect of stimulation of the internal carotid nerve is mediated by synaptic stimulation via these preganglionic &quot;through fibers&quot;, the effect of stimulation of previously decentralized ganglia was examined. While decentralization reduced the magnitude of the effect of stimulation of the internal and external carotid nerves, a 2.0-fold increase in DOPA synthesis was still seen. In addition, when these nerve trunks were stimulated in control ganglia that had been maintained in organ culture for 48 h to allow time for the degeneration of afferent nerve terminals, DOPA synthesis increased 4.1-fold.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Embryonic habenular or striatal cholinergic tissues were transplanted to the hippocampal formation of adult rats. The connectivity of these grafts with the host hippocampal formation was analysed using acetylcholinesterase histochemistry and immunocytochemistry with a monoclonal antibody to choline acetyltransferase. Both graft types produced laminar arrangements of acetylcholinesterase-positive fibers in the hippocampal formation that closely resembled the native pattern of cholinergic innervation. In addition, graft-derived choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive synapses were found in the host hippocampal formation. These synapses were formed on non-immunoreactive dendritic structures and were similar to the types of cholinergic synapses found in the hippocampal formation of normal animals. These data indicate that the cholinergic transmitter phenotype is a major determinant of whether a neuron will form typical cholinergic synapses with hippocampal targets.
Using in vitro receptor autoradiographic techniques we have analysed the pre- and postnatal development of neurotensin receptors in the rat brain. Receptors were labeled with [3H] or [125I]neurotensin in mounted tissue sections from animals of ages gestational day 14 until the postnatal day 21 as well as young adult animals. Very low densities of neurotensin receptors were visualized on gestational days 14 and 15. Between gestational days 16 and 18 a marked increase in the density of neurotensin receptors was seen in the developing neocortex. Densities in other brain areas, particularly the midbrain and brainstem were much lower than cortical densities. The density of neurotensin receptors in the cortex increased through the last part of the gestation and early postnatal life until it peaked at the end of the first postnatal week. After that, neurotensin receptor binding decreased dramatically reaching lower densities seen in the adult animal at the end of the third postnatal week. Development of neurotensin receptors in other brain areas followed very different time patterns. Neurotensin receptors in the midbrain were seen first at gestational day 18 and increased slowly with development to reach adult levels at about the second week of postnatal life. Neurotensin receptors in the hippocampal formation demonstrated postnatal development; they were detected at postnatal day 5 and showed a developmental peak around the second week. These patterns were seen with both 3H- and 125I-labeled neurotensin, thus excluding possible differential quenching artifacts. These clear differential regional ontogenetic patterns for neurotensin receptors are the main findings of these experiments. The very high densities present in the cortex even in fetal stages suggest that neurotensin could play a role in the development of the brain.
The decrease in amplitude of endplate potentials that occurs with high frequency nerve stimulation at the rat phrenic-diaphragm preparation is greater after blockade of choline uptake by hemicholinium-3. The effect is mainly presynaptic and occurs after presumably only a small fraction of the total number of releasable quanta has been discharged. Moreover, when the phrenic nerve is stimulated with a rapid sequence of short tetanic trains, the decrease of the amplitude of both the &quot;first&quot; and the &quot;last&quot; endplate potential of each train which is usually monoexponential becomes not only greater but also biphasic. The effect on the &quot;first&quot; endplate potentials is particularly large. This can be interpreted as further evidence that newly synthesized acetylcholine preferentially replenishes the immediately available store of quanta released by nerve stimulation.
The phrenic nerve of an unparalysed &quot;cut&quot; rat diaphragm preparation was stimulated with a rapid sequence of short tetanic trains. The amplitudes of both the first and the last (25th) endplate potentials produced by short tetanic trains progressively decreased with repeated application, but the latter diminished faster. Both relative depression and relative recovery (defined as fractional decrease and fractional recovery of endplate potential amplitudes that occur during and after each short train) became more pronounced with time. Relative facilitation (defined as fractional increase of endplate potential amplitudes observed at the beginning of each train) when initially present, persisted or increased slightly with duration of stimulation. Present results suggest that the &quot;classic&quot; depletion model for depression ought to be modified. They can be explained if it is assumed that during stimulation the capacity of the immediately available store to contain transmitter increases, and/or that newly formed transmitter preferentially replenishes the store of quanta immediately available for release. (An interesting consequence of the former model is that the immediately available store is replenished even when the small store behind is relatively more depleted.
The distribution of sigma receptors in guinea-pig brain is demonstrated using quantitative autoradiography and the new selective sigma receptor probe, 1,3-di(2[5-(3)H]tolyl)guanidine. Pharmacological analysis, using slide-mounted brain sections, reveals that this site is saturable and has a drug-specificity profile similar to that found in homogenate binding studies. Autoradiography reveals a moderate to high density of discrete, specific labeling superimposed on a lower level of homogeneous 1,3-di(2[5-(3)H]tolyl)guanidine binding. Both patterns are displaced by incubation with 10 microM haloperidol or 1,3-di-ortho-tolyl-guanidine. In the forebrain, the highest density of binding is associated with the magnocellular-neuroendocrine and limbic systems; lower densities are distributed in non-limbic nuclei and the lowest levels occur in the extrapyramidal system. In the midbrain and hindbrain, motor nuclei involved in voluntary and involuntary motor behavior are discretely labeled, as are many of the cranial nerve nuclei. The anatomical distribution of the haloperidol-sensitive sigma receptors is distinct from the pattern of phencyclidine receptors and suggests sigma compounds may effect endocrine, emotional and motor behavior.
