




It is widely assumed that mosaics of retinal ganglion cells establish the optimal representation of visual space. However, relay cells in the visual thalamus often receive convergent input from several retinal afferents and, in cat, outnumber ganglion cells. To explore how the thalamus transforms the retinal image, we built a model of the retinothalamic circuit using experimental data and simple wiring rules. The model shows how the thalamus might form a resampled map of visual space with the potential to facilitate detection of stimulus position in the presence of sensor noise. Bayesian decoding conducted with the model provides support for this scenario. Despite its benefits, however, resampling introduces image blur, thus impairing edge perception. Whole-cell recordings obtained in vivo suggest that this problem is mitigated by arrangements of excitation and inhibition within the receptive field that effectively boost contrast borders, much like strategies used in digital image processing.
Defining the rules governing synaptic connectivity is key to formulating theories of neural circuit function. Interneurons can be connected by both electrical and chemical synapses, but the organization and interaction of these two complementary microcircuits is unknown. By recording from multiple molecular layer interneurons in the cerebellar cortex, we reveal specific, nonrandom connectivity patterns in both GABAergic chemical and electrical interneuron networks. Both networks contain clustered motifs and show specific overlap between them. Chemical connections exhibit a preference for transitive patterns, such as feedforward triplet motifs. This structured connectivity is supported by a characteristic spatial organization: transitivity of chemical connectivity is directed vertically in the sagittal plane, and electrical synapses appear strictly confined to the sagittal plane. The specific, highly structured connectivity rules suggest that these motifs are essential for the function of the cerebellar network.
Midbrain dopamine neurons fire in bursts conveying salient information. Bursts are associated with pauses in tonic firing of striatal cholinergic interneurons. Although the reciprocal balance of dopamine and acetylcholine in the striatum is well known, how dopamine neurons control cholinergic neurons has not been elucidated. Here, we show that dopamine neurons make direct fast dopaminergic and glutamatergic connections with cholinergic interneurons, with regional heterogeneity. Dopamine neurons drive a burst-pause firing sequence in cholinergic interneurons in the medial shell of the nucleus accumbens, mixed actions in the accumbens core, and a pause in the dorsal striatum. This heterogeneity is due mainly to regional variation in dopamine-neuron glutamate cotransmission. A single dose of amphetamine attenuates dopamine neuron connections to cholinergic interneurons with dose-dependent regional specificity. Overall, the present data indicate that dopamine neurons control striatal circuit function via discrete, plastic connections with cholinergic interneurons.
Biochemical studies suggest that excitatory neurons are metabolically coupled with astrocytes to generate glutamate for release. However, the extent to which glutamatergic neurotransmission depends on this process remains controversial because direct electrophysiological evidence is lacking. The distance between cell bodies and axon terminals predicts that glutamine-glutamate cycle is synaptically localized. Hence, we investigated isolated nerve terminals in brain slices by transecting hippocampal Schaffer collaterals and cortical layer I axons. Stimulating with alternating periods of high frequency (20 Hz) and rest (0.2 Hz), we identified an activity-dependent reduction in synaptic efficacy that correlated with reduced glutamate release. This was enhanced by inhibition of astrocytic glutamine synthetase and reversed or prevented by exogenous glutamine. Importantly, this activity dependence was also revealed with an in-vivo-derived natural stimulus both at network and cellular levels. These data provide direct electrophysiological evidence that an astrocyte-dependent glutamate-glutamine cycle is required to maintain active neurotransmission at excitatory terminals.
Olfactory sensory neurons express just one out of a possible  1,000 odorant receptor genes, reflecting an exquisite mode of gene regulation. In one model, once an odorant receptor is chosen for expression, other receptor genes are suppressed by a negative feedback mechanism, ensuring a stable functional identity of the sensory neuron for the lifetime of the cell. The signal transduction mechanism subserving odorant receptor gene silencing remains obscure, however. Here, we demonstrate in the zebrafish that odorant receptor gene silencing is dependent on receptor activity. Moreover, we show that signaling through G protein  subunits is both necessary and sufficient to suppress the expression of odorant receptor genes and likely acts through histone methylation to maintain the silenced odorant receptor genes in transcriptionally inactive heterochromatin. These results link receptor activity with the epigenetic mechanisms responsible for ensuring the expression of one odorant receptor per olfactory sensory neuron.
Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) and age-related macular degeneration (AMD) are blinding diseases caused by the degeneration of rods and cones, leaving the remainder of the visual system unable to respond to light. Here, we report a chemical photoswitch named DENAQ that restores retinal responses to white light of intensity similar to ordinary daylight. A single intraocular injection of DENAQ photosensitizes the blind retina for days, restoring electrophysiological and behavioral responses with no toxicity. Experiments on mouse strains with functional, nonfunctional, or degenerated rods and cones show that DENAQ is effective only in retinas with degenerated photoreceptors. DENAQ confers light sensitivity on a hyperpolarization-activated inward current that is enhanced in degenerated retina, enabling optical control of retinal ganglion cell firing. The acceptable light sensitivity, favorable spectral sensitivity, and selective targeting to diseased tissue make DENAQ a prime drug candidate for vision restoration in patients with end-stage RP and AMD.
Stratification of retinal neuronal cell bodies and lamination of their processes provide a scaffold upon which neural circuits can be built. However, the molecular mechanisms that direct retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) to resolve into a single-cell retinal ganglion cell layer (GCL) are not well understood. The extracellular matrix protein laminin conveys spatial information that instructs the migration, process outgrowth, and reorganization of GCL cells. Here, we show that the 1-Integrin laminin receptor is required for RGC positioning and reorganization into a single-cell GCL layer. 1-Integrin signaling within migrating GCL cells requires Cas signaling-adaptor proteins, and in the absence of 1-Integrin or Cas function retinal neurons form ectopic cell clusters beyond the inner-limiting membrane (ILM), phenocopying laminin mutants. These data reveal an essential role for Cas adaptor proteins in 1-Integrin-mediated signaling events critical for the formation of the single-cell GCL in the mammalian retina.
Despite the importance of the insect nervous system for functional and developmental neuroscience, descriptions of insect brains have suffered from a lack of uniform nomenclature. Ambiguous definitions of brain regions and fiber bundles have contributed to the variation of names used to describe the same structure. The lack of clearly determined neuropil boundaries has made it difficult to document precise locations of neuronal projections for connectomics study. To address such issues, a consortium of neurobiologists studying arthropod brains, the Insect Brain Name Working Group, has established the present hierarchical nomenclature system, using the brain of Drosophila melanogaster as the reference framework, while taking the brains of other taxa into careful consideration for maximum consistency and expandability. The following summarizes the consortium's nomenclature system and highlights examples of existing ambiguities and remedies for them. This nomenclature is intended to serve as a standard of reference for the study of the brain of Drosophila and other insects.
Among the three human apolipoprotein E (apoE) isoforms, apoE4 increases the risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD). While transporting cholesterol is a primary function, apoE also regulates amyloid- (A) metabolism, aggregation, and deposition. Although earlier work suggests that different affinities of apoE isoforms to A might account for their effects on A clearance, recent studies indicate that apoE also competes with A for cellular uptake through apoE receptors. Thus, several factors probably determine the variable effects apoE has on A. In this Review, we examine biochemical, structural, and functional studies and propose testable models that address the complex mechanisms underlying apoE-A interaction and how apoE4 may increase AD risk and also serve as a target pathway for therapy.
The identification of the presence of active signaling between astrocytes and neurons in a process termed gliotransmission has caused a paradigm shift in our thinking about brain function. However, we are still in the early days of the conceptualization of how astrocytes influence synapses, neurons, networks, and ultimately behavior. In this Perspective, our goal is to identify emerging principles governing gliotransmission and consider the specific properties of this process that endow the astrocyte with unique functions in brain signal integration. We develop and present hypotheses aimed at reconciling confounding reports and define open questions to provide a conceptual framework for future studies. We propose that astrocytes mainly signal through high-affinity slowly desensitizing receptors to modulate neurons and perform integration in spatiotemporal domains complementary to those of neurons.
Numerous metaphors have been employed to describe the achievements of the 2013 Nobel Laureates in Physiology or Medicine, James E. Rothman, Randy W. Schekman, and Thomas C. Sdhof, who were honored for &quot;their discoveries of machinery regulating vesicle traffic, a major transport system in our cells.&quot; Most of these metaphors referred to the mundane issue of business logistics, and there is probably no other cell type in which the logistics problem is more pressing than in neurons.
Retrograde signaling is a powerful tool to shape synaptic transmission, typically inducing inhibition of transmitter release. A new study published in this issue of Neuron by Carta et al. (2014) now provides strong support for arachidonic acid as a potentiating retrograde messenger.
Primary sensory neurons convey information from the external world to relay circuits within the CNS, but the identity and organization of the neurons that process incoming sensory information remains sketchy. Within the CNS, viral tracing techniques that rely on retrograde transsynaptic transfer provide a powerful tool for delineating circuit organization. Viral tracing of the circuits engaged by primary sensory neurons has, however, been hampered by the absence of a genetically tractable anterograde transfer system. In this study, we demonstrate that rabies virus can infect sensory neurons in the somatosensory system, is subject to anterograde transsynaptic transfer from primary sensory to spinal target neurons, and can delineate output connectivity with third-order neurons. Anterograde transsynaptic transfer is a feature shared by other classes of primary sensory neurons, permitting the identification and potentially the manipulation of neural circuits processing sensory feedback within the mammalian CNS.
Voltage-gated potassium (Kv) channels are involved in action potential (AP) repolarization in excitable cells. Exogenous application of membrane-derived lipids, such as arachidonic acid (AA), regulates the gating of Kv channels. Whether membrane-derived lipids released under physiological conditions have an impact on neuronal coding through this mechanism is unknown. We show that AA released in an activity-dependent manner from postsynaptic hippocampal CA3 pyramidal cells acts as retrograde messenger, inducing a robust facilitation of mossy fiber (Mf) synaptic transmission over several minutes. AA acts by broadening presynaptic APs through the direct modulation of Kv channels. This form of short-term plasticity can be triggered when postsynaptic cell fires with physiologically relevant patterns and sets the threshold for the induction of the presynaptic form of long-term potentiation (LTP) at hippocampal Mf synapses. Hence, direct modulation of presynaptic Kv channels by activity-dependent release of lipids serves as a physiological mechanism for tuning synaptic transmission.
The peripheral terminals of primary nociceptive neurons play an essential role in pain detection mediated by membrane receptors like TRPV1, a molecular sensor of heat and capsaicin. However, the contribution of central terminal TRPV1 in the dorsal horn to chronic pain has not been investigated directly. Combining primary sensory neuron-specific GCaMP3 imaging with a trigeminal neuropathic pain model, we detected robust neuronal hyperactivity in injured and uninjured nerves in the skin, soma in trigeminal ganglion, and central terminals in the spinal trigeminal nucleus. Extensive TRPV1 hyperactivity was observed in central terminals innervating all dorsal horn laminae. The central terminal TRPV1 sensitization was maintained by descending serotonergic (5-HT) input from the brainstem. Central blockade of TRPV1 or 5-HT/5-HT3A receptors attenuated central terminal sensitization, excitatory primary afferent inputs, and mechanical hyperalgesia in the territories of injured and uninjured nerves. Our results reveal central mechanisms facilitating central terminal sensitization underlying chronic pain.






Sibling care is a hallmark of social insects, but its evolution remains challenging to explain at the molecular level. The hypothesis that sibling care evolved from ancestral maternal care in primitively eusocial insects has been elaborated to involve heterochronic changes in gene expression. This elaboration leads to the prediction that workers in these species will show patterns of gene expression more similar to foundress queens, who express maternal care behaviour, than to established queens engaged solely in reproductive behaviour. We tested this idea in bumblebees (Bombus terrestris) using a microarray platform with approximately 4500 genes. Unlike the wasp Polistes metricus, in which support for the above prediction has been obtained, we found that patterns of brain gene expression in foundress and queen bumblebees were more similar to each other than to workers. Comparisons of differentially expressed genes derived from this study and gene lists from microarray studies in Polistes and the honeybee Apis mellifera yielded a shared set of genes involved in the regulation of related social behaviours across independent eusocial lineages. Together, these results suggest that multiple independent evolutions of eusociality in the insects might have involved different evolutionary routes, but nevertheless involved some similarities at the molecular level.










The lipids and proteins in eukaryotic cells are continuously exchanged between cell compartments, although these retain their distinctive composition and functions despite the intense interorganelle molecular traffic. The techniques described in this paper are powerful means of studying protein and lipid mobility and trafficking in vivo and in their physiological environment. Fluorescence recovery after photobleaching (FRAP) and fluorescence loss in photobleaching (FLIP) are widely used live-cell imaging techniques for studying intracellular trafficking through the exo-endocytic pathway, the continuity between organelles or subcompartments, the formation of protein complexes, and protein localization in lipid microdomains, all of which can be observed under physiological and pathological conditions. The limitations of these approaches are mainly due to the use of fluorescent fusion proteins, and their potential drawbacks include artifactual over-expression in cells and the possibility of differences in the folding and localization of tagged and native proteins. Finally, as the limit of resolution of optical microscopy (about 200 nm) does not allow investigation of the fine structure of the ER or the specific subcompartments that can originate in cells under stress (i.e. hypoxia, drug administration, the over-expression of transmembrane ER resident proteins) or under pathological conditions, we combine live-cell imaging of cultured transfected cells with ultrastructural analyses based on transmission electron microscopy.

The dentate gyrus (DG) of the hippocampus is critical for spatial memory and is also thought to be involved in the formation of drug-related associative memory. Here, we attempt to test an aspect of the Gateway Hypothesis, by studying the effect of consecutive exposure to nicotine and cocaine on long-term synaptic potentiation (LTP) in the DG. We find that a single injection of cocaine does not alter LTP. However, pretreatment with nicotine followed by a single injection of cocaine causes a substantial enhancement of LTP. This priming effect of nicotine is unidirectional: There is no enhancement of LTP if cocaine is administrated prior to nicotine. The facilitation induced by nicotine and cocaine can be blocked by oral administration of the dopamine D1/D5 receptor antagonist (SKF 83566) and enhanced by the D1/D5 agonist (SKF 38393). Application of the histone deacetylation inhibitor suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid (SAHA) simulates the priming effect of nicotine on cocaine. By contrast, the priming effect of nicotine on cocaine is blocked in genetically modified mice that are haploinsufficient for the CREB-binding protein (CBP) and possess only one functional CBP allele and therefore exhibit a reduction in histone acetylation. These results demonstrate that the DG of the hippocampus is an important brain region contributing to the priming effect of nicotine on cocaine. Moreover, both activation of dopamine-D1 receptor/PKA signaling pathway and histone deacetylation/CBP mediated transcription are required for the nicotine priming effect in the DG.










Decision-making is explained by psychologists through stochastic accumulator models and by neurophysiologists through the activity of neurons believed to instantiate these models. We investigated an overlooked scaling problem: How does a response time (RT) that can be explained by a single model accumulator arise from numerous, redundant accumulator neurons, each of which individually appears to explain the variability of RT? We explored this scaling problem by developing a unique ensemble model of RT, called e pluribus unum, which embodies the well-known dictum &quot;out of many, one.&quot; We used the e pluribus unum model to analyze the RTs produced by ensembles of redundant, idiosyncratic stochastic accumulators under various termination mechanisms and accumulation rate correlations in computer simulations of ensembles of varying size. We found that predicted RT distributions are largely invariant to ensemble size if the accumulators share at least modestly correlated accumulation rates and RT is not governed by the most extreme accumulators. Under these regimes the termination times of individual accumulators was predictive of ensemble RT. We also found that the threshold measured on individual accumulators, corresponding to the firing rate of neurons measured at RT, can be invariant with RT but is equivalent to the specified model threshold only when the rate correlation is very high.
Recent progress in neuroscience has been facilitated by tools for neuronal activation and inactivation that are orthogonal to endogenous signaling systems. We describe here a chemical-genetic approach for inducible silencing of Caenorhabditis elegans neurons in intact animals, using the histamine-gated chloride channel HisCl1 from Drosophila and exogenous histamine. Administering histamine to freely moving C. elegans that express HisCl1 transgenes in neurons leads to rapid and potent inhibition of neural activity within minutes, as assessed by behavior, functional calcium imaging, and electrophysiology of neurons expressing HisCl1. C. elegans does not use histamine as an endogenous neurotransmitter, and exogenous histamine has little apparent effect on wild-type C. elegans behavior. HisCl1-histamine silencing of sensory neurons, interneurons, and motor neurons leads to behavioral effects matching their known functions. In addition, the HisCl1-histamine system can be used to titrate the level of neural activity, revealing quantitative relationships between neural activity and behavioral output. We use these methods to dissect escape circuits, define interneurons that regulate locomotion speed (AVA, AIB) and escape-related omega turns (AIB), and demonstrate graded control of reversal length by AVA interneurons and DA/VA motor neurons. The histamine-HisCl1 system is effective, robust, compatible with standard behavioral assays, and easily combined with optogenetic tools, properties that should make it a useful addition to C. elegans neurotechnology.
Retinal cones are photoreceptors for daylight vision. For lower vertebrates, cones are known to give monophasic, hyperpolarizing responses to light flashes. For primate cones, however, they have been reported to give strongly biphasic flash responses, with an initial hyperpolarization followed by a depolarization beyond the dark level, now a textbook dogma. We have reexamined this primate-cone observation and, surprisingly, found predominantly monophasic cone responses. Correspondingly, we found that primate cones began to adapt to steady light at much lower intensities than previously reported, explainable by a larger steady response to background light for a monophasic than for a biphasic response. Similarly, we have found a monophasic cone response for several other mammalian species. Thus, a monophasic flash response may in fact be the norm for primate and other mammalian cones as for lower-vertebrate cones. This revised information is important for ultimately understanding human retinal signal processing and correlating with psychophysical data.
Previous research has implicated a large network of brain regions in the processing of risk during decision making. However, it has not yet been determined if activity in these regions is predictive of choices on future risky decisions. Here, we examined functional MRI data from a large sample of healthy subjects performing a naturalistic risk-taking task and used a classification analysis approach to predict whether individuals would choose risky or safe options on upcoming trials. We were able to predict choice category successfully in 71.8% of cases. Searchlight analysis revealed a network of brain regions where activity patterns were reliably predictive of subsequent risk-taking behavior, including a number of regions known to play a role in control processes. Searchlights with significant predictive accuracy were primarily located in regions more active when preparing to avoid a risk than when preparing to engage in one, suggesting that risk taking may be due, in part, to a failure of the control systems necessary to initiate a safe choice. Additional analyses revealed that subject choice can be successfully predicted with minimal decrements in accuracy using highly condensed data, suggesting that information relevant for risky choice behavior is encoded in coarse global patterns of activation as well as within highly local activation within searchlights.


It has been postulated that there is a link between age related degenerative diseases and cancer. The TNF-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) has been shown to selectively kill tumor cells by binding to pro-apoptotic and anti-apoptotic receptors. Our aim was to study the levels of anti-apoptotic receptor (DcR1) in age related macular degeneration (AMD) and controls. AMD patients (115) were classified into two groups: Dry and Wet AMD. Wet AMDs were further classified into occult, predominant classic and minimal classic. 61 healthy individuals were recruited as normal controls. After normalization with total protein, DcR1 levels were analyzed by ELISA. Mann Whitney U-statistic was used for analysis of DcR1 ELISA results. We have observed DcR1 levels in serum sample which were significantly lower in AMD patients as compared to controls (p = 0.001). On the other hand, we did not find difference in DcR1 levels between wet and dry AMD. The present study defines the plausible role of DcR1 in AMD pathology signifying a new therapeutic target for AMD.

A recent publication reported an exciting polygenic effect of schizophrenia (SCZ) risk variants, identified by a large genome-wide association study (GWAS), on total brain and white matter volumes in schizophrenic patients and, even more prominently, in healthy subjects. The aim of the present work was to replicate and then potentially extend these findings. According to the original publication, polygenic risk scores-using single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) information of SCZ GWAS-(polygenic SCZ risk scores; PSS) were calculated in 122 healthy subjects, enrolled in a structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) study. These scores were computed based on P-values and odds ratios available through the Psychiatric GWAS Consortium. In addition, polygenic white matter scores (PWM) were calculated, using the respective SNP subset in the original publication. None of the polygenic scores, either PSS or PWM, were found to be associated with total brain, white matter or gray matter volume in our replicate sample. Minor differences between the original and the present study that might have contributed to lack of reproducibility (but unlikely explain it fully), are number of subjects, ethnicity, age distribution, array technology, SNP imputation quality and MRI scanner type. In contrast to the original publication, our results do not reveal the slightest signal of association of the described sets of GWAS-identified SCZ risk variants with brain volumes in adults. Caution is indicated in interpreting studies building on polygenic risk scores without replication sample.



A 69-year-old man presented with a sudden headache followed by unconsciousness. There was no head injury. The Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score was 3/15 and there was a left mydriasis, unreactive to light. The CT-scan showed a left acute subdural haematoma causing a remarkable mass effect. A supratentorial hemispheric craniotomy was performed. Nevertheless, after several weeks at the intensive care unit (ICU), the patient was still unresponsive to external stimuli and did not show any motor activity. A comfort care attitude was decided on with the family and the patient was extubated. However, a few days later, the patient subsequently showed a surprisingly favourable course, with improved wakefulness. Indeed, the GCS score improved, and the treatment plan was modified so that the patient benefited from rehabilitation. The MRI showed a right cerebral peduncle lesion, consistent with a Kernohan-Woltman notch phenomenon (KWNP). Six months later, the patient was able to walk and live quite normally.


A recent study in humans shows that the same neurons that represent location during spatial navigation also code elements of verbal recall. This study thus provides a critical missing link between two previously unconnected functions of the hippocampus.
Unlike humans, monkeys, or carnivores, mice are thought to lack a retinal subregion devoted to high-resolution vision; systematic analysis has now shown that mice encode visual space non-uniformly, increasing their spatial sampling of the binocular visual field.









Abstract available from the publisher.


Amyloid- (A) has long been implicated as a causative protein in Alzheimer's disease. Cellular A accumulation is toxic and causes mitochondrial dysfunction, which precedes clinical symptoms of Alzheimer's disease pathology. In the present study, we explored the possible use of epoxyeicosatrienoic acids (EETs), epoxide metabolites of arachidonic acid, as therapeutic target against A-induced mitochondrial impairment using cultured neonatal hippocampal astrocytes. Inhibition of endogenous EET production by a selective epoxygenase inhibitor, MS-PPOH, caused a greater reduction in mitochondrial membrane potential in the presence of A (1, 10 M) exposure versus absence of A. MS-PPOH preincubation also aggravated A-induced mitochondrial fragmentation. Preincubation of the cells with either 14,15- or 11,12-EET prevented this mitochondrial depolarization and fragmentation. EET pretreatment also further improved the reduction observed in mitochondrial oxygen consumption in the presence of A. Preincubation of the cells with EETs significantly improved cellular respiration under basal condition and in the presence of the protonophore, carbonyl cyanide 4-(trifluoromethoxy) phenylhydrazone (FCCP). The uncoupling of ATP synthase from the electron transfer chain that occurred in A-treated cells was also prevented by preincubation with EETs. Lastly, cellular reactive oxygen species production, a hallmark of A toxicity, also showed significant reduction in the presence of EETs. We have previously shown that A reduces EET synthesis in rat brain homogenates and cultured hippocampal astrocytes and neurons (Sarkar P, Narayanan J, Harder DR. Differential effect of amyloid beta on the cytochrome P450 epoxygenase activity in rat brain. Neuroscience 194: 241-249, 2011). We conclude that reduction of endogenous EETs may be one of the mechanisms through which A inflicts toxicity and thus supplementing the cells with exogenous EETs improves mitochondrial dynamics and prevents metabolic impairment.
Previous work has shown that hindbrain catecholamine neurons are required components of the brain's glucoregulatory circuitry. However, the mechanisms and circuitry underlying their glucoregulatory functions are poorly understood. Here we examined three drugs, glucosamine (GcA), phloridzin (Phl) and 5-thio-d-glucose (5TG), that stimulate food intake but interfere in different ways with cellular glucose utilization or transport. We examined feeding and blood glucose responses to each drug in male rats previously injected into the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus with anti-dopamine--hydroxylase conjugated to saporin (DSAP), a retrogradely transported immunotoxin that selectively lesions noradrenergic and adrenergic neurons, or with unconjugated saporin (SAP) control. Our major findings were 1) that GcA, Phl, and 5TG all stimulated feeding in SAP controls whether injected into the lateral or fourth ventricle (LV or 4V), 2) that each drug's potency was similar for both LV and 4V injections, 3) that neither LV or 4V injection of these drugs evoked feeding in DSAP-lesioned rats, and 4) that only 5TG, which blocks glycolysis, stimulated a blood glucose response. The antagonist of the MEK/ERK signaling cascade, U0126, attenuated GcA-induced feeding, but not Phl- or 5TG-induced feeding. Thus GcA, Phl, and 5TG, although differing in mechanism and possibly activating different neural populations, stimulate feeding in a catecholamine-dependent manner. Although results do not exclude the possibility that catecholamine neurons possess glucose-sensing mechanisms responsive to all of these agents, currently available evidence favors the possibility that the feeding effects result from convergent neural circuits in which catecholamine neurons are a required component.
Frequency mixing magnetic detection (FMMD) was used to detect superoxide from hypoxanthine and xanthine reaction and to detect hydroxyl radical from the Fenton reaction. FMMD was also applied to measure the reactive oxygen species (ROS) level released from microglial cells. We could assess the formation and extinction of the free radicals without a spin trap reagent. The FMMD signal amplitude scaled with the concentration of the radicals. It was verified that no signals are obtained from the substrates and reagents. Based on the observations and on previous research, we suggest that the FMMD signals originate from superoxide and hydroxyl radicals, indicating that FMMD can be used to detect O-centered radicals. Subsequent analysis of free radicals generated from living microglial cells showed that there were significant differences between the activated microglial cells and resting ones. The results of this research are promising regarding the applications of FMMD for in situ measurement of free radicals from various sources, including the cell.

Although the etiology of schizophrenia (SZ) remains unknown, it is increasingly clear that immune dysregulation plays a central role. Genome-wide association studies reproducibly indicate an association of SZ with immune genes within the major histocompatibility complex (MHC). Moreover, environmental factors that increase risk for SZ, such as maternal infection, alter peripheral immune responses as well as the expression of immune molecules in the brain. MHC class I (MHCI) molecules might mediate both genetic and environmental contributions to SZ through direct effects on brain development in addition to mediating immunity. MHCI molecules are expressed on neurons in the central nervous system throughout development and into adulthood, where they regulate many aspects of brain development, including neurite outgrowth, synapse formation and function, long-term and homeostatic plasticity, and activity-dependent synaptic refinement. This review summarizes our current understanding of MHCI expression and function in the developing brain as well as its involvement in maternal immune activation, from the perspective of how these roles for MHCI molecules might contribute to the pathogenesis of SZ.
In the last decade, autoantibodies targeting proteins on the neuronal surface and that are believed to be directly pathogenic have been described in patients with autoimmune encephalitis. Since then, new antigenic targets have been discovered, and new clinical phenotypes have been recognized. The psychotic disorders are one example of this expanding spectrum. Here, we consider the defining criteria of antibody-mediated central nervous system disease and the extent to which the psychiatric data currently satisfy those criteria. We discuss the implications these findings have for our understanding, nosology, and treatment of psychiatric disorders.

This review concentrates on the evidence for autoantibodies to cell surface synaptic proteins in psychosis and schizophrenia. We and others have recently found antibodies to the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor in first-episode psychosis. We describe the evidence for pathogenicity and disease-relevance of these antibodies, which builds on the novel field in neuroimmunology of cell surface antibody-associated central nervous system disorders. Relevant autoantibodies in psychosis and schizophrenia are likely to be those directed to cell surface proteins, in which the likelihood of pathogenicity is greater. We discuss the evidence for this from the field of paraneoplastic neurologic syndromes and the discovery of novel cell surface antigen central nervous system autoimmune syndromes.

This Letter describes the development and SAR of a novel series of GlyT1 inhibitors derived from a scaffold hopping approach, in lieu of an HTS campaign, which provided intellectual property position. Members within this new [3.3.0]-based series displayed excellent GlyT1 potency, selectivity, free fraction, and modest CNS penetration. Moreover, enantioselective GlyT1 inhibition was observed, within this novel series and a number of other piperidine bioisosteric cores.
This Letter describes the development and SAR of a novel series of GlyT1 inhibitors derived from a scaffold hopping approach that provided a robust intellectual property position, in lieu of a traditional, expensive HTS campaign. Members within this new [3.1.0]-based series displayed excellent GlyT1 potency, selectivity, free fraction, CNS penetration and efficacy in a preclinical model of schizophrenia (prepulse inhibition).
A number of 2H-1,3-benzoxazin-4(3H)-one derivatives containing indole or benzofuran moieties were synthesized by using Pd/C-Cu mediated coupling-cyclization strategy as a key step. The o-iodoanilides or o-iodophenol were coupled with 3-{2-(prop-2-ynyloxy)ethyl}-2H-benzo[e][1,3]oxazin-4(3H)-one using 10%Pd/C-CuI-PPh3 as a catalyst system and Et3N as a base to give the target compounds. All the synthesized compounds were tested for their PDE4B inhibitory potential in vitro using a cell based cAMP reporter assay. Some of them showed fold increase of the cAMP level when tested at 30 M. A representative compound showed encouraging PDE4B inhibitory properties that were supported by its docking results.

Malignant mesothelioma, a very aggressive tumor associated to asbestos exposure, is expected to increase in incidence, and unfortunately, no curative modality exists. Reactivation of p53 is a new attractive antitumoral strategy. p53 is rarely mutated in mesothelioma, but it is inactivated in most tumors by the lack of p14(ARF). Here, we evaluated the feasibility of this approach in pleural mesothelioma by testing RITA and nutlin-3, two molecules able to restore p53 function through a different mechanism, on a panel of mesothelioma cell lines representing the epithelioid (NCI-H28, NCI-H2452, IST-MES 2), biphasic (MSTO-211H), and sarcomatoid (NCI-H2052) histotypes compared with the normal mesothelial HMC-hTERT. RITA triggered robust caspase-dependent apoptosis specifically in epithelioid and biphasic mesothelioma cell lines, both through wild-type and mutant p53, concomitant to p21 downregulation. Conversely, nutlin-3 induced a p21-dependent growth arrest, rather than apoptosis, and was slightly toxic on HMC-hTERT.  Interestingly, we identified a previously undetected point mutation of p53 (p.Arg249Ser) in IST-MES 2, and showed that RITA is also able to reactivate this p53 mutant protein and its apoptotic function. RITA reduced tumor growth in a MSTO-211H-derived xenograft model of mesothelioma and synergized with cisplatin, which is the mainstay of treatment for this tumor. Our data indicate that reactivation of p53 and concomitant p21 downregulation effectively induce cell death in mesothelioma, a tumor characterized by a high intrinsic resistance to apoptosis. Altogether, our findings provide the preclinical framework supporting the use of p53-reactivating agents alone, or in combination regimens, to improve the outcome of patients with mesothelioma.
Bortezomib (BTZ) is the first proteasome inhibitor entered in clinical practice. Peripheral neuropathy is likely to be a class side effect of these drugs, although its severity is largely variable, and it deserves to be further investigated, since the mechanisms of BTZ-induced peripheral neurotoxicity (BiPN) are still unknown.  In our study, we investigated in vivo and in vitro possible pathogenic events relevant to BiPN using a well-established rat model, with particular reference to the extent of proteasome inhibition and the effects on -tubulin polymerization in sciatic nerves and dorsal root ganglia specimens obtained from animals treated with chronic regimens at a dose of 0.2 mg/kg intravenously. The same assessments were also performed after a single injection. Moreover, these studies were replicated in vitro using embryonic DRG neurons exposed to 100 nM BTZ and adult DRG neurons exposed to 10-50 nM BTZ for 24 h and 48 h. A significant increase in the polymerized fraction of -tubulin and prolonged proteasome inhibition were observed after the chronic BTZ treatment in vivo. Recovery to physiological levels was observed after a 4-week follow-up post-treatment period. Proteasome inhibition and increased -tubulin polymerization were also observed following BTZ treatment of both embryonic and adult DRG neurons in vitro. Our in vivo results suggest that proteasome inhibition and alteration of tubulin dynamics contribute to BiPN. The in vitro systems here described reliably replicate the in vivo results, and might therefore be used for further mechanistic studies on the effects of proteasome inhibitors on neurons.


The basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcriptional activator Ptf1a determines inhibitory GABAergic over excitatory glutamatergic neuronal cell fate in progenitors of the vertebrate dorsal spinal cord, cerebellum and retina. In an in situ hybridization expression survey of PR domain containing genes encoding putative chromatin-remodeling zinc finger transcription factors in Xenopus embryos, we identified Prdm13 as a histone methyltransferase belonging to the Ptf1a synexpression group. Gain and loss of Ptf1a function analyses in both frog and mice indicates that Prdm13 is positively regulated by Ptf1a and likely constitutes a direct transcriptional target. We also showed that this regulation requires the formation of the Ptf1a-Rbp-j complex. Prdm13 knockdown in Xenopus embryos and in Ptf1a overexpressing ectodermal explants lead to an upregulation of Tlx3/Hox11L2, which specifies a glutamatergic lineage and a reduction of the GABAergic neuronal marker Pax2. It also leads to an upregulation of Prdm13 transcription, suggesting an autonegative regulation. Conversely, in animal caps, Prdm13 blocks the ability of the bHLH factor Neurog2 to activate Tlx3. Additional gain of function experiments in the chick neural tube confirm that Prdm13 suppresses Tlx3(+)/glutamatergic and induces Pax2(+)/GABAergic neuronal fate. Thus, Prdm13 is a novel crucial component of the Ptf1a regulatory pathway that, by modulating the transcriptional activity of bHLH factors such as Neurog2, controls the balance between GABAergic and glutamatergic neuronal fate in the dorsal and caudal part of the vertebrate neural tube.
Haploinsufficiency of Euchromatin histone methyltransferase 1 (EHMT1), a chromatin modifying enzyme, is the cause of Kleefstra syndrome (KS). KS is an intellectual disability (ID) syndrome, with general developmental delay, hypotonia, and craniofacial dysmorphisms as additional core features. Recent studies have been focused on the role of EHMT1 in learning and memory, linked to the ID phenotype of KS patients. In this study we used the Ehmt1(+/-) mouse model, and investigated whether the core features of KS were mimicked in these mice. When comparing Ehmt1(+/-) mice to wildtype littermates we observed delayed postnatal growth, eye opening, ear opening, and upper incisor eruption, indicating a delayed postnatal development. Furthermore, tests for muscular strength and motor coordination showed features of hypotonia in young Ehmt1(+/-) mice. Lastly, we found that Ehmt1(+/-) mice showed brachycephalic crania, a shorter or bent nose, and hypertelorism, reminiscent of the craniofacial dysmorphisms seen in KS. In addition, gene expression analysis revealed a significant upregulation of the mRNA levels of Runx2 and several other bone tissue related genes in P28 Ehmt1(+/-) mice. Runx2 immunostaining also appeared to be increased. The mRNA upregulation was associated with decreased histone H3 lysine 9 dimethylation (H3K9me2) levels, the epigenetic mark deposited by Ehmt1, in the promoter region of these genes. Together, Ehmt1(+/-) mice indeed recapitulate KS core features and can be used as an animal model for Kleefstra syndrome. The increased expression of bone developmental genes in the Ehmt1(+/-) mice likely contributes to their cranial dysmorphisms and might be explained by diminished Ehmt1-induced H3K9 dimethylation.
Transient receptor potential, melastatin-like 7 (Trpm7) is a combined ion channel and kinase implicated in the differentiation or function of many cell types. Early lethality in mice and frogs depleted of the corresponding gene impedes investigation of the functions of this protein particularly during later stages of development. By contrast, zebrafish trpm7 mutant larvae undergo early morphogenesis normally and thus do not have this limitation. The mutant larvae are characterized by multiple defects including melanocyte cell death, transient paralysis, and an ion imbalance that leads to the development of kidney stones. Here we report a requirement for Trpm7 in differentiation or function of dopaminergic neurons in vivo. First, trpm7 mutant larvae are hypomotile and fail to make a dopamine-dependent developmental transition in swim-bout length. Both of these deficits are partially rescued by the application of levodopa or dopamine. Second, histological analysis reveals that in trpm7 mutants a significant fraction of dopaminergic neurons lack expression of tyrosine hydroxylase, the rate-limiting enzyme in dopamine synthesis. Third, trpm7 mutants are unusually sensitive to the neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium, an oxidative stressor, and their motility is partially rescued by application of the iron chelator deferoxamine, an anti-oxidant. Finally, in SH-SY5Y cells, which model aspects of human dopaminergic neurons, forced expression of a channel-dead variant of TRPM7 causes cell death. In summary, a forward genetic screen in zebrafish has revealed that both melanocytes and dopaminergic neurons depend on the ion channel Trpm7. The mechanistic underpinning of this dependence requires further investigation.
Recent reports suggest that N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) blockade by MK-801 decreases tumor growth. Thus, we investigated whether other ionotropic glutamate receptor (iGluR) antagonists were also able to modulate the proliferation of melanoma cells. On the other hand, the antiestrogen tamoxifen (TAM) decreases the proliferation of melanoma cells, and is included in combined therapies for melanoma. As the efficacy of TAM is limited by its metabolism, we investigated the effects of the NMDAR antagonist MK-801 in combination with TAM and its active metabolites, 4-hydroxytamoxifen (OHTAM) and endoxifen (EDX). The NMDAR blockers MK-801 and memantine decreased mouse melanoma K1735-M2 cell proliferation. In contrast, the NMDAR competitive antagonist APV and the AMPA and kainate receptor antagonist NBQX did not affect cell proliferation, suggesting that among the iGluR antagonists only the NMDAR channel blockers inhibit melanoma cell proliferation. The combination of antiestrogens with MK-801 potentiated their individual effects on cell biomass due to diminished cell proliferation, since it decreased the cell number and DNA synthesis without increasing cell death. Importantly, TAM metabolites combined with MK-801 promoted cell cycle arrest in G1. Therefore, the data obtained suggest that the activity of MK-801 and antiestrogens in K1735-M2 cells is greatly enhanced when used in combination.
Recessive mutations in the alsin gene cause three clinically distinct motor neuron diseases: juvenile amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS2), juvenile primary lateral sclerosis (JPLS) and infantile-onset ascending hereditary spastic paraplegia (IAHSP). A total of 23 different ALS2 mutations have been described for the three disorders so far. Most of these mutations result in a frameshift leading to a premature truncation of the alsin protein. We report the novel ALS2 truncating mutation c.2761C&gt;T; p.R921X detected by homozygosity mapping and sequencing in two infants affected by IAHSP with bulbar involvement. The mutation c.2761C&gt;T resides in the pleckstrin domain, a characteristic segment of guanine nucleotide exchange factors of the Rho GTPase family, which is involved in the overall neuronal development or maintenance. This study highlights the importance of using homozygosity mapping combined with candidate gene analysis to identify the underlying genetic defect as in this Saudi consanguineous family.
Dominant mutations in transactive response DNA-binding protein-43 (TDP-43) cause amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. TDP-43 inclusions occur in neurons, glia and muscle in this disease and in sporadic and inherited forms of frontotemporal lobar degeneration. Cytoplasmic localization, cleavage, aggregation and phosphorylation of TDP-43 at the Ser409/410 epitope have been associated with disease pathogenesis. TDP-43 aggregation is not a common feature of mouse models of TDP-43 proteinopathy, and TDP-43 is generally not thought to acquire an amyloid conformation or form fibrils. A number of putative TDP-43 kinases have been identified, but whether any of these functions to regulate TDP-43 phosphorylation or toxicity in vivo is not known. Here, we demonstrate that human TDP-43(Q331K) undergoes cytoplasmic localization and aggregates when misexpressed in Drosophila when compared with wild-type and M337V forms. Coexpression of Q331K with doubletime (DBT), the fly homolog of casein kinase I (CKI), enhances toxicity. There is at best modest basal phosphorylation of misexpressed human TDP-43 in Drosophila, but coexpression with DBT increases Ser409/410 phosphorylation of all TDP-43 isoforms tested. Phosphorylation of TDP-43 in the fly is specific for DBT, as it is not observed using the validated tau kinases GSK-3, PAR-1/MARK2 or CDK5. Coexpression of DBT with TDP-43(Q331K) enhances the formation of high-molecular weight oligomeric species coincident with enhanced toxicity, and treatment of recombinant oligomeric TDP-43 with rat CKI strongly enhances its toxicity in mammalian cell culture. These data identify CKI as a potent TDP-43 kinase in vivo and implicate oligomeric species as the toxic entities in TDP-43 proteinopathies.
Galectin-1 is a glycan-binding protein, which is involved in the aggressiveness of glioblastoma (GBM) in part by stimulating angiogenesis. In different cancer models, galectin-1 has also been demonstrated to play a pivotal role in tumor-mediated immune evasion especially by modulating cells of the adaptive immune system. It is yet unknown whether the absence or presence of galectin-1 within the glioma microenvironment also causes qualitative or quantitative differences in innate and/or adaptive antitumor immune responses. All experiments were performed in the orthotopic GL261 mouse high-grade glioma model. Stable galectin-1 knockdown was achieved via transduction of parental GL261 tumor cells with a lentiviral vector encoding a galectin-1-targeting miRNA. We demonstrated that the absence of tumor-derived but not of host-derived galectin-1 significantly prolonged the survival of glioma-bearing mice as such and in combination with dendritic cell (DC)-based immunotherapy. Both flow cytometric and pathological analysis revealed that the silencing of glioma-derived galectin-1 significantly decreased the amount of brain-infiltrating macrophages and myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSC) in tumor-bearing mice. Additionally, we revealed a pro-angiogenic role for galectin-1 within the glioma microenvironment. The data provided in this study reveal a pivotal role for glioma-derived galectin-1 in the regulation of myeloid cell accumulation within the glioma microenvironment, the most abundant immune cell population in high-grade gliomas. Furthermore, the prolonged survival observed in untreated and DC-vaccinated glioma-bearing mice upon the silencing of tumor-derived galectin-1 strongly suggest that the in vivo targeting of tumor-derived galectin-1 might offer a promising and realistic adjuvant treatment modality in patients diagnosed with GBM.

With fatiguing exercise, firing of group III/IV muscle afferents reduces voluntary activation and force of the exercised muscles. These afferents can also act across agonist/antagonist pairs, reducing voluntary activation and force in nonfatigued muscles. We hypothesized that maintained firing of group III/IV muscle afferents after a fatiguing adductor pollicis (AP) contraction would decrease voluntary activation and force of AP and ipsilateral elbow flexors. In two experiments (n = 10) we examined voluntary activation of AP and elbow flexors by measuring changes in superimposed twitches evoked by ulnar nerve stimulation and transcranial magnetic stimulation of the motor cortex, respectively. Inflation of a sphygmomanometer cuff after a 2-min AP maximal voluntary contraction (MVC) blocked circulation of the hand for 2 min and maintained firing of group III/IV muscle afferents. After a 2-min AP MVC, maximal AP voluntary activation was lower with than without ischemia (56.2  17.7% vs. 76.3  14.6%; mean  SD; P &lt; 0.05) as was force (40.3  12.8% vs. 57.1  13.8% peak MVC; P &lt; 0.05). Likewise, after a 2-min AP MVC, elbow flexion voluntary activation was lower with than without ischemia (88.3  7.5% vs. 93.6  3.9%; P &lt; 0.05) as was torque (80.2  4.6% vs. 86.6  1.0% peak MVC; P &lt; 0.05). Pain during ischemia was reported as Moderate to Very Strong. Postfatigue firing of group III/IV muscle afferents from the hand decreased voluntary drive and force of AP. Moreover, this effect decreased voluntary drive and torque of proximal unfatigued muscles, the elbow flexors. Fatigue-sensitive group III/IV muscle nociceptors act to limit voluntary drive not only to fatigued muscles but also to unfatigued muscles within the same limb.

The amygdala plays a critical role in emotional processing and has been implicated in the etiology of numerous psychiatric disorders. It is an evolutionarily ancient structure that is enlarged in primates relative to rodents. Certain amygdala nuclei, such as the lateral nucleus, show relatively greater phylogenetic expansion than other nuclei. However, it is unknown whether there is also differential alteration in neuronal features. To address this question, we examined the dendritic arbors of principal neurons, visualized by using the Golgi method, in the lateral and central nuclei of young adult rhesus macaques and rats. Total dendritic length is greater in the macaque than in the rat. Dendritic trees are increased by 250% in length in the lateral nucleus of the monkey compared with the rat (6,009 m vs. 2,473 m); dendritic tree length in the central nucleus is increased by 50% (1,786 m vs. 1,232 m). Somal volume is increased 62% between species in the lateral nucleus and 48% in the central nucleus. Spine density is lower on macaque lateral nucleus dendrites compared with rat (-22%) but equivalent in the central nucleus. Spines are equally long in the lateral nucleus of rat and macaque, but spines are longer by about 20% in the central nucleus of the macaque. The alterations in dendritic structure that we observed between the two species suggest differences in the number and spacing of inputs into these nuclei that undoubtedly influence amygdala function.
Regulation of BNSTALG neuronal firing activity is tightly regulated by the opposing actions of the fast outward potassium current, IA , mediated by  subunits of the Kv4 family of ion channels, and the transient inward calcium current, IT . Together, these channels play a critical role in regulating the latency to action potential onset, duration, and frequency, as well as dendritic back-propagation and synaptic plasticity. Previously we have shown that Type I-III BNSTALG neurons express mRNA transcripts for each of the Kv4  subunits. However, the biophysical properties of native IA channels are critically dependent on the formation of macromolecular complexes of Kv4 channels with a family of chaperone proteins, the potassium channel-interacting proteins (KChIP1-4). Here we used a multidisciplinary approach to investigate the expression and function of Kv4 channels and KChIPs in neurons of the rat BNSTALG . Using immunofluorescence we demonstrated the pattern of localization of Kv4.2, Kv4.3, and KChIP1-4 proteins in the BNSTALG . Moreover, our single-cell reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (scRT-PCR) studies revealed that mRNA transcripts for Kv4.2, Kv4.3, and all four KChIPs were differentially expressed in Type I-III BNSTALG neurons. Furthermore, immunoelectron microscopy revealed that Kv4.2 and Kv4.3 channels were primarily localized to the dendrites and spines of BNSTALG neurons, and are thus ideally situated to modulate synaptic transmission. Consistent with this observation, in vitro patch clamp recordings showed that reducing postsynaptic IA in these neurons lowered the threshold for long-term potentiation (LTP) induction. These results are discussed in relation to potential modulation of IA channels by chronic stress.
Cat auditory cortex is known to undergo cross-modal reorganization following deafness, such that behavioral advantages in visual motion detection are abolished when a specific region of deaf auditory cortex, the dorsal zone (DZ), is deactivated. The purpose of the present investigation was to examine the connectional adaptations that might subserve this plasticity. We deposited biotinylated dextran amine (BDA; 3,000 MW), a retrograde tracer, unilaterally into the posterior portion of the suprasylvian fringe, corresponding to area DZ of hearing, early-deafened (onset &lt;1 month), and late-deafened (onset &gt;3 months) cats to reveal cortical afferent projections. Overall, the pattern of cortical projections to DZ was similar in both hearing and deafened animals. However, there was a progressive increase in projection strength among hearing and late- and early-deafened cats from an extrastriate visual cortical region known to be involved in the processing of visual motion, the posterolateral lateral suprasylvian area (PLLS). Additionally, although no such change was documented for the posteromedial lateral suprasylvian area (PMLS), labeled neurons were present within a subregion of PMLS devoted to foveal vision in both late- and early-deafened animals but not in hearing controls. PMLS is also an extrastriate visual motion processing area and is widely considered to be the homolog of primate middle temporal area. No changes in auditory cortical connectivity were observed among groups. These observations suggest that amplified cortical projections from extrastriate visual areas involved in visual motion processing to DZ may contribute to the cross-modal reorganization that functionally manifests as superior visual motion detection ability in the deaf animal.
There are many different types of enteric neurons. Previous studies have identified the time at which some enteric neuron subtypes are born (exit the cell cycle) in the mouse, but the birthdates of some major enteric neuron subtypes are still incompletely characterized or unknown. We combined 5-ethynynl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU) labeling with antibody markers that identify myenteric neuron subtypes to determine when neuron subtypes are born in the mouse small intestine. We found that different neurochemical classes of enteric neuron differed in their birthdates; serotonin neurons were born first with peak cell cycle exit at E11.5, followed by neurofilament-M neurons, calcitonin gene-related peptide neurons (peak cell cycle exit for both at embryonic day [E]12.5-E13.5), tyrosine hydroxylase neurons (E15.5), nitric oxide synthase 1 (NOS1) neurons (E15.5), and calretinin neurons (postnatal day [P]0). The vast majority of myenteric neurons had exited the cell cycle by P10. We did not observe any EdU+/NOS1+ myenteric neurons in the small intestine of adult mice following EdU injection at E10.5 or E11.5, which was unexpected, as previous studies have shown that NOS1 neurons are present in E11.5 mice. Studies using the proliferation marker Ki67 revealed that very few NOS1 neurons in the E11.5 and E12.5 gut were proliferating. However, Cre-lox-based genetic fate-mapping revealed a small subpopulation of myenteric neurons that appears to express NOS1 only transiently. Together, our results confirm a relationship between enteric neuron subtype and birthdate, and suggest that some enteric neurons exhibit neurochemical phenotypes during development that are different from their mature phenotype.
The pro-inflammatory cytokine IL-1 is known to play a role in several models of aging, neuroinflammation, and neurodegenerative diseases. Here, we document a detailed time- and age-dependent pattern of pro- and anti-inflammatory biomarkers following bilateral intrahippocampal injection of interleukin-1. During the first 12h several pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines increased in the aged (24 mo old) rats, some of which returned to baseline levels by 24h post-injection while others remained elevated for 72 h post-injection. In contrast, no such increases were observed in the young (3 mo old) rats. Interestingly, young rats up-regulated mRNA of two pro-inflammatory cytokines, interleukin-1 and tumor necrosis factor-, but did not translate these transcripts into functional proteins, which may be related to expression of suppressor of cytokine signaling type-2. These results contribute to our understanding of how neuroinflammation may contribute to the pathogenesis of age-related neurodegenerative disorders due to an age-related bias towards a hyper-reactive immune response that is not selective for a pro- or anti-inflammatory phenotype following an inflammatory stimulus.
Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) limits mouse autoimmune neuroinflammation by promoting the development of tolerogenic dendritic cells (DCs). Given the role played by DCs in the establishment of immunological tolerance, agents that coerce DCs to adopt a protolerogenic function are currently under investigation for multiple sclerosis (MS) therapy. Here, we studied the immunomodulatory effects of HGF on DCs derived from human monocytes. DCs differentiated in the presence of HGF adopt a protolerogenic phenotype with increased ability to generate regulatory T cells, a property that might be exploited therapeutically in T cell-mediated immune disorders such as MS.
Immune cells often express various nicotinic ACh receptor (nAChR) subtypes, including 7 nAChRs, as well as mRNA encoding secreted lymphocyte antigen-6/urokinase-type plasminogen activator receptor-related peptide (SLURP)-1, an endogenous 7 nAChR allosteric ligand. We detected SLURP-1 immunoreactivity in CD205(+) dendritic cells (DCs) residing in human tonsils. Phytohemagglutinin (PHA, 10 g/ml), a T cell activator, attenuated cell proliferation and increased the ACh content of MOLT-3 human leukemic T cells compared with the vehicle control. Methyllycaconitine (MLA, 100nM), a specific 7 nAChR antagonist, abolished all effects elicited by PHA. Recombinant (r)SLURP-1 (0.5 g/ml) attenuated peripheral blood mononuclear cell proliferation and increased ChAT gene expression and the ACh content in MOLT-3 cells compared with the control, all of which were abolished by MLA. This suggests SLURP-1 activates cholinergic transmission by potentiating ACh synthesis and its action at 7 nAChRs, thereby facilitating functional development of T cells. These findings support the notion that SLURP-1 acts as a key modulator of immune responses.

Paraneoplastic stiff-person syndrome (SPS) has been associated with antibodies against amphiphysin. Current evidence supports a pathogenic role for anti-amphiphysin antibodies. A 74-year-old female was diagnosed with amphiphysin-associated paraneoplastic stiff-person syndrome and associated encephalomyelitis. She had initial response to IVIG, however her symptoms worsened after two months and were resistant to further treatment. Subsequently the patient died and a post-mortem was performed. Neuropathology revealed perivascular and parenchymal lymphocytic infiltrates, with neuronophagia mediated by CD8+ T cells and microglia in brainstem, spinal cord, and mesial temporal lobe structures. These findings suggest a pathogenic role of cytotoxic CD8+ T-cells, with potential implication for therapy of future patients.


Progressive myoclonic ataxia (PMA) is a clinical syndrome defined as progressive ataxia and myoclonus and infrequent seizures in the absence of progressive dementia. Due to the extremely heterogeneous nature of PMA, a large proportion of PMA cases remain molecularly undiagnosed. The aim of this study was to clarify the molecular etiology of PMA. The patient was a 52-year-old female from consanguineous parents. She developed a jerking neck movement at age 9, which gradually expanded to her entire body. On physical examination at age 47, she exhibited generalized, spontaneous myoclonus that occurred continuously. She also presented with mild limb and truncal ataxia. An electroencephalogram revealed no abnormalities. A brain MRI displayed no atrophy of the cerebellum. Electrophysiological studies suggested myoclonus of a subcortical origin. For further evaluation, we performed exome sequencing, and we identified a novel homozygous missense mutation in the MRE11 gene (NM_005590:c.140C&gt;T:p.A47V). Subsequently, we analyzed the expression of MRE11 and related proteins (RAD50 and NBS1) via Western blot, and they were markedly decreased compared to a healthy control. Mutations in the MRE11 gene have been known to cause an ataxia-telangiectasia-like (ATLD) disorder. Accumulating evidence has indicated that its wide phenotypic variations in ATLD correspond to genotypic differences. Interestingly, our case exhibited a relatively mild decrease in NBS1 compared to previously reported cases of a homozygous missense mutation, which may account for the milder phenotype in this patient. Moreover, together with a recently reported case of an MRE11 mutation, it is suggested that MRE11 mutations can present as PMA.


Thermal laser stimulation of the skin is an efficient exploratory tool to characterize the nociceptive system. In the present study, finite element simulations are done to calculate the intra-cutaneous spatio-temporal temperature profiles following the delivery of such laser stimuli. The proposed computer-aided modeling considers a number of important parameters that have been disregarded in previous approaches: (i) variability of water content across the skin in both hairy and glabrous skin, (ii) temperature dependency of optical and thermal skin parameters, (iii) laser wavelength and corresponding absorption coefficient, (iv) beam shape (Gaussian vs. flat top) and (v) power emission (closed vs. open loop). Numerical simulations allow determining at each instant of time the volume and area of skin tissue whose temperature exceeds a given nociceptor activation threshold. This knowledge allows a finer characterization of the subpopulations of primary afferents that encode and convey nociceptive signals to the central nervous system. As an example, the approach is used to obtain an estimate of intraepidermal nerve fiber density in both physiological and pathological conditions. Moreover, a better knowledge of the heat distribution also reduces the risk of injury to the skin. Finally, in order to make the finite element simulations accessible to investigators with no prior background in numerical analysis, a specific open-source user-interface has been developed with the ONELAB software.

N-Methyl-d-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) are Ca(2+)-permeable glutamate receptors that play a critical role in synaptic plasticity and promoting cell survival. However, overactive NMDARs can trigger cell death signalling pathways and have been implicated in substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) pathology in Parkinson's disease. Calcium ion influx through NMDARs recruits Ca(2+)-dependent proteins that can regulate NMDAR activity. The surface density of NMDARs can also be regulated dynamically in response to receptor activity via Ca(2+)-independent mechanisms. We have investigated the activity-dependent regulation of NMDARs in SNc dopaminergic neurones. Repeated whole-cell agonist applications resulted in a decline in the amplitude of NMDAR currents (current run-down) that was use dependent and not readily reversible. Run-down was reduced by increasing intracellular Ca(2+) buffering or by reducing Ca(2+) influx but did not appear to be mediated by the same regulatory proteins that cause Ca(2+)-dependent run-down in hippocampal neurones. The NMDAR current run-down may be mediated in part by a Ca(2+)-independent mechanism, because intracellular dialysis with a dynamin-inhibitory peptide reduced run-down, suggesting a role for clathrin-mediated endocytosis in the regulation of the surface density of receptors. Synaptic NMDARs were also subject to current run-down during repeated low-frequency synaptic stimulation in a Ca(2+)-dependent but dynamin-independent manner. Thus, we report, for the first time, regulation of NMDARs in SNc dopaminergic neurones by changes in intracellular Ca(2+) at both synaptic and extrasynaptic sites and provide evidence for activity-dependent changes in receptor trafficking. These mechanisms may contribute to intracellular Ca(2+) homeostasis in dopaminergic neurones by limiting Ca(2+) influx through the NMDAR.
There are five mammalian stomatin-domain genes, all of which encode peripheral membrane proteins that can modulate ion channel function. Here we examined the ability of stomatin-like protein 1 (STOML1) to modulate the proton-sensitive members of the acid-sensing ion channel (ASIC) family. STOML1 profoundly inhibits ASIC1a, but has no effect on the splice variant ASIC1b. The inactivation time constant of ASIC3 is also accelerated by STOML1. We examined STOML1 null mutant mice with a -galactosidase-neomycin cassette gene-trap reporter driven from the STOML1 gene locus, which indicated that STOML1 is expressed in at least 50% of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurones. Patch clamp recordings from mouse DRG neurones identified a trend for larger proton-gated currents in neurones lacking STOML1, which was due to a contribution of effects upon both transient and sustained currents, at different pH, a finding consistent with an endogenous inhibitory function for STOML1.



In recent years the study of the intrinsic brain dynamics in a relaxed awake state in the absence of any specific task has gained increasing attention, as spontaneous neural activity has been found to be highly structured at a large scale. This so called resting-state activity has been found to be comprised by nonrandom spatiotemporal patterns and fluctuations, and several Resting-State Networks (RSN) have been found in BOLD-fMRI as well as in MEG signal power envelope correlations. The underlying anatomical connectivity structure between areas of the brain has been identified as being a key to the observed functional network connectivity, but the mechanisms behind this are still underdetermined. Theoretical large-scale brain models for fMRI data have corroborated the importance of the connectome in shaping network dynamics, while the importance of delays and noise differ between studies and depend on the models' specific dynamics. In the current study, we present a spiking neuron network model that is able to produce noisy, distributed alpha-oscillations, matching the power peak in the spectrum of group resting-state MEG recordings. We studied how well the model captured the inter-node correlation structure of the alpha-band power envelopes for different delays between brain areas, and found that the model performs best for propagation delays inside the physiological range (5-10 m/s). Delays also shift the transition from noisy to bursting oscillations to higher global coupling values in the model. Thus, in contrast to the asynchronous fMRI state, delays are important to consider in the presence of oscillation.
Recently several novel image contrasts derived from whole-brain fibre tracking-data (tractograms) have been introduced. The novel contrasts of these track-weighted imaging (TWI) methods may provide important information for clinical neuroscience studies. However, before they can be used reliably to generate quantitative measures, it is important to characterise their within-subject reproducibility, and between-subject variability. In this work we compute the within-subject reproducibility (intra-scan, intra-session and inter-session), and between-subject variability of TWI for a number of different TWI contrasts across multiple subjects. The results are used in simple voxel-wise power calculations within illustrative regions of interest to provide guidelines for required sample sizes and observable effect sizes for individual subjects and between groups. It was found that the required sample sizes and observable effect sizes varied considerably between different TWI maps and for different ROIs. For some TWI contrast and ROI combinations, the power calculations yielded clinically practical values. These results provide important information concerning the potential usefulness and sensitivity of TWI maps for individual diagnosis, longitudinal studies and group comparisons, as well as for study designs.
Human connectome mapping is important to understand both normal brain function and disease-related dysfunction. Although blood-oxygen-level-dependent (BOLD) fMRI has been the most commonly used method for human connectome mapping, arterial spin labeling (ASL) is an fMRI technique to measure cerebral blood flow (CBF) directly and noninvasively, and thus provides a more direct quantitative correlate of neural activity. In this study, investigations on properties of CBF networks using ASL perfusion data have been conducted on 10 healthy subjects. As with BOLD fMRI studies, the extracted networks exhibited small-world network properties. In addition, highly connected brain regions are shown to overlap mostly with hub regions detected from BOLD fMRI studies. Taken together, this demonstrates the capability of ASL fMRI for mapping the brain connectome. Furthermore, a sigmoid model was then employed to fit the extracted network metrics vs. CBF measurements. Interestingly, the relationships between 4 specific network metrics and region-wise CBF demonstrate that consistently nonlinear patterns exist across all subjects. In contrast to the positive nonlinear pattern of other network metrics (degree, vulnerability, and eigenvector centrality), the characteristic path length shows a negative nonlinear pattern, reflecting the mechanism underlying the small-world properties. To our knowledge, this is the first study to unravel the intrinsic relationships between specific network metrics and CBF estimates. This should have diagnostic and therapeutic implications for those studies focusing on patients who suffer from abnormal functional connectivity.
The increase in spatiotemporal resolution of neuroimaging devices is accompanied by a trend towards more powerful multivariate analysis methods. Often it is desired to interpret the outcome of these methods with respect to the cognitive processes under study. Here we discuss which methods allow for such interpretations, and provide guidelines for choosing an appropriate analysis for a given experimental goal: For a surgeon who needs to decide where to remove brain tissue it is most important to determine the origin of cognitive functions and associated neural processes. In contrast, when communicating with paralyzed or comatose patients via brain-computer interfaces, it is most important to accurately extract the neural processes specific to a certain mental state. These equally important but complementary objectives require different analysis methods. Determining the origin of neural processes in time or space from the parameters of a data-driven model requires what we call a forward model of the data; such a model explains how the measured data was generated from the neural sources. Examples are general linear models (GLMs). Methods for the extraction of neural information from data can be considered as backward models, as they attempt to reverse the data generating process. Examples are multivariate classifiers. Here we demonstrate that the parameters of forward models are neurophysiologically interpretable in the sense that significant nonzero weights are only observed at channels the activity of which is related to the brain process under study. In contrast, the interpretation of backward model parameters can lead to wrong conclusions regarding the spatial or temporal origin of the neural signals of interest, since significant nonzero weights may also be observed at channels the activity of which is statistically independent of the brain process under study. As a remedy for the linear case, we propose a procedure for transforming backward models into forward models. This procedure enables the neurophysiological interpretation of the parameters of linear backward models. We hope that this work raises awareness for an often encountered problem and provides a theoretical basis for conducting better interpretable multivariate neuroimaging analyses.
Cognitive regulation of emotions is a fundamental prerequisite for intact social functioning which impacts on both well being and psychopathology. The neural underpinnings of this process have been studied intensively in recent years, without, however, a general consensus. We here quantitatively summarize the published literature on cognitive emotion regulation using activation likelihood estimation in fMRI and PET (23 studies/479 subjects). In addition, we assessed the particular functional contribution of identified regions and their interactions using quantitative functional inference and meta-analytic connectivity modeling, respectively. In doing so, we developed a model for the core brain network involved in emotion regulation of emotional reactivity. According to this, the superior temporal gyrus, angular gyrus and (pre) supplementary motor area should be involved in execution of regulation initiated by frontal areas. The dorsolateral prefrontal cortex may be related to regulation of cognitive processes such as attention, while the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex may not necessarily reflect the regulatory process per se, but signals salience and therefore the need to regulate. We also identified a cluster in the anterior middle cingulate cortex as a region, which is anatomically and functionally in an ideal position to influence behavior and subcortical structures related to affect generation. Hence this area may play a central, integrative role in emotion regulation. By focusing on regions commonly active across multiple studies, this proposed model should provide important a priori information for the assessment of dysregulated emotion regulation in psychiatric disorders.
General knowledge acquisition entails the extraction of statistical regularities from the environment. At high levels of complexity, this may involve the extraction, and consolidation, of associative regularities across event memories. The underlying neural mechanisms would likely involve a hippocampo-neocortical dialog, as proposed previously for system-level consolidation. To test these hypotheses, we assessed possible differences in consolidation between associative memories containing cross-episodic regularities and unique associative memories. Subjects learned face-location associations, half of which responded to complex regularities regarding the combination of facial features and locations, whereas the other half did not. Importantly, regularities could only be extracted over hippocampus-encoded, associative aspects of the items. Memory was assessed both immediately after encoding and 48 h later, under fMRI acquisition. Our results suggest that processes related to system-level reorganization occur preferentially for regular associations across episodes. Moreover, the build-up of general knowledge regarding regular associations appears to involve the coordinated activity of the hippocampus and mediofrontal regions. The putative cross-talk between these two regions might support a mechanism for regularity extraction. These findings suggest that the consolidation of cross-episodic regularities may be a key mechanism underlying general knowledge acquisition.
The age of acquisition (AoA) of objects and their names is a powerful determinant of processing speed in adulthood, with early-acquired objects being recognized and named faster than late-acquired objects. Previous research using fMRI (Ellis et al., 2006. Traces of vocabulary acquisition in the brain: evidence from covert object naming. NeuroImage 33, 958-968) found that AoA modulated the strength of BOLD responses in both occipital and left anterior temporal cortex during object naming. We used magnetoencephalography (MEG) to explore in more detail the nature of the influence of AoA on activity in those two regions. Covert object naming recruited a network within the left hemisphere that is familiar from previous research, including visual, left occipito-temporal, anterior temporal and inferior frontal regions. Region of interest (ROI) analyses found that occipital cortex generated a rapid evoked response (~75-200 ms at 0-40 Hz) that peaked at 95 ms but was not modulated by AoA. That response was followed by a complex of later occipital responses that extended from ~300 to 850 ms and were stronger to early- than late-acquired items from ~325 to 675 ms at 10-20 Hz in the induced rather than the evoked component. Left anterior temporal cortex showed an evoked response that occurred significantly later than the first occipital response (~100-400 ms at 0-10 Hz with a peak at 191 ms) and was stronger to early- than late-acquired items from ~100 to 300 ms at 2-12 Hz. A later anterior temporal response from ~550 to 1050 ms at 5-20 Hz was not modulated by AoA. The results indicate that the initial analysis of object forms in visual cortex is not influenced by AoA. A fastforward sweep of activation from occipital and left anterior temporal cortex then results in stronger activation of semantic representations for early- than late-acquired objects. Top-down re-activation of occipital cortex by semantic representations is then greater for early than late acquired objects resulting in delayed modulation of the visual response.
The brain has limited capacity, and so selective attention enhances relevant incoming information while suppressing irrelevant information. This process is not always successful, and the frequency of such cognitive failures varies to a large extent between individuals. Here we hypothesised that individual differences in cognitive failures might be reflected in inhibitory processing in the sensory cortex. To test this hypothesis, we measured GABA in human visual cortex using MR spectroscopy and found a negative correlation between occipital GABA (GABA+/Cr ratio) and cognitive failures as measured by an established cognitive failures questionnaire (CFQ). For a second site in parietal cortex, no correlation between CFQ score and GABA+/Cr ratio was found, thus establishing the regional specificity of the link between occipital GABA and cognitive failures. We further found that grey matter volume in the left superior parietal lobule (SPL) correlated with cognitive failures independently from the impact of occipital GABA and together, occipital GABA and SPL grey matter volume statistically explained around 50% of the individual variability in daily cognitive failures. We speculate that the amount of GABA in sensory areas may reflect the potential capacity to selectively suppress irrelevant information already at the sensory level, or alternatively that GABA influences the specificity of neural representations in visual cortex thus improving the effectiveness of successful attentional modulation.
There have been a number of studies suggesting that oscillatory alpha activity (~10 Hz) plays a pivotal role in attention by gating information flow to relevant sensory regions. The vast majority of these studies have looked at shifts of attention in the spatial domain and only in a single modality (often visual or sensorimotor). In the current magnetoencephalography (MEG) study, we investigated the role of alpha activity in the suppression of a distracting modality stream. We used a cross-modal attention task where visual cues indicated whether participants had to judge a visual orientation or discriminate the auditory pitch of an upcoming target. The visual and auditory targets were presented either simultaneously or alone, allowing us to behaviorally gauge the &quot;cost&quot; of having a distractor present in each modality. We found that the preparation for visual discrimination (relative to pitch discrimination) resulted in a decrease of alpha power (9-11 Hz) in the early visual cortex, with a concomitant increase in alpha/beta power (14-16 Hz) in the supramarginal gyrus, a region suggested to play a vital role in short-term storage of pitch information (Gaab et al., 2003). On a trial-by-trial basis, alpha power over the visual areas was significantly correlated with increased visual discrimination times, whereas alpha power over the precuneus and right superior temporal gyrus was correlated with increased auditory discrimination times. However, these correlations were only significant when the targets were paired with distractors. Our work adds to increasing evidence that the top-down (i.e. attentional) modulation of alpha activity is a mechanism by which stimulus processing can be gated within the cortex. Here, we find that this phenomenon is not restricted to the domain of spatial attention and can be generalized to other sensory modalities than vision.
Multiple Sclerosis (MS) is a neurodegenerative disease characterized by demyelinated lesions. PET imaging using specific myelin radioligands might solve the lack of a specific imaging tool for diagnosing and monitoring demyelination and remyelination in MS patients. In recent years, a few tracers have been developed for in vivo PET imaging of myelin, but they have not been fully evaluated yet. In this study, we compared [(11)C]CIC and [(11)C]MeDAS as PET tracers for monitoring demyelination and remyelination in cuprizone-fed mice. The ex vivo biodistribution of [(11)C]CIC showed decreased tracer uptake in mice fed with 0.2% cuprizone diet for 5 weeks, as compared to control mice. However, tracer uptake did not increase again after normal diet was restored for 5 weeks (remyelination). Surprisingly, in vivo PET imaging with [(11)C]CIC in cuprizone-fed mice revealed a significant reduction in whole brain tracer uptake after 5 weeks of remyelination. No correlation between ex vivo biodistribution and in vivo imaging data was found for [(11)C]CIC (r(2)=0.15, p=0.11). However, a strong correlation was found for [(11)C]MeDAS (r(2)=0.88, p&lt;0.0001). [(11)C]MeDAS ex vivo biodistribution revealed significant decreased brain uptake in the demyelination group, as compared to controls and increased the tracer uptake after 5 weeks of remyelination. [(11)C]MeDAS images showed a low background signal and clear uptake in the brain white matter and spinal cord. Taken together, the results of this comparative study between [(11)C]CIC and [(11)C]MeDAS clearly show that [(11)C]MeDAS is the preferred PET tracer to monitor myelin changes in the brain and spinal cord in vivo.
Myelin is a critical element of the central and peripheral nervous systems of all higher vertebrates. Any disturbance in the integrity of the myelin sheath interferes with the axon's ability to conduct action potentials. Thus, the study of myelin structure and biochemistry is critically important. Accurate and even staining of myelin is often difficult because of its lipid-rich nature and multiple tight membrane wraps, hindering penetration of immunoprobes. Here we show a method of visualizing myelin that is fast, inexpensive and reliable using the cross-linking fixative glutaraldehyde that produces strong, broad-spectrum auto-fluorescence in fixed tissue. Traditionally, effort is generally aimed at eliminating this auto-fluorescence. However, we show that this intrinsic signal, which is very photostable and particularly strong in glutaraldehyde-fixed myelin, can be exploited to visualize this structure to produce very detailed images of myelin morphology. We imaged fixed rodent tissues from the central and peripheral nervous systems using spectral confocal microscopy to acquire high-resolution 3-dimensional images spanning the visual range of wavelengths (400-750 nm). Mathematical post-processing allows accurate and unequivocal separation of broadband auto-fluorescence from exogenous fluorescent probes such as DAPI and fluorescently-tagged secondary antibodies. We additionally show the feasibility of immunohistochemistry with antigen retrieval, which allows co-localization of proteins of interest together with detailed myelin morphology. The lysolecithin model of de- and remyelination is shown as an example of a practical application of this technique, which can be routinely applied when high-resolution microscopy of central or peripheral myelinated tracts is required.
White matter of the brain contains a majority of long T2 components as well as a minority of short T2 components. These are not detectable using clinical magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) sequences with conventional echo times (TEs). In this study we used ultrashort echo time (UTE) sequences to investigate the ultrashort T2 components in white matter of the brain and quantify their T2*s and relative proton densities (RPDs) (relative to water with a proton density of 100%) using a clinical whole body 3T scanner. An adiabatic inversion recovery prepared dual echo UTE (IR-dUTE) sequence was used for morphological imaging of the ultrashort T2 components in white matter. IR-dUTE acquisitions at a constant TR of 1000 ms and a series of TIs were performed to determine the optimal TI which corresponded to the minimum signal to noise ratio (SNR) in white matter of the brain on the second echo image. T2*s of the ultrashort T2 components were quantified using mono-exponential decay fitting of the IR-dUTE signal at a series of TEs. RPD was quantified by comparing IR-dUTE signal of the ultrashort T2 components with that of a rubber phantom. Nine healthy volunteers were studied. The IR-dUTE sequence provided excellent image contrast for the ultrashort T2 components in white matter of the brain with a mean signal to noise ratio of 18.7  3.7 and a contrast to noise ratio of 14.6  2.4 between the ultrashort T2 white matter and gray matter in a 4.4 min scan time with a nominal voxel size of 1.25  1.25  5.0mm(3). On average a T2* value of 0.42  0.08 ms and a RPD of 4.05  0.88% were demonstrated for the ultrashort T2 components in white matter of the brain of healthy volunteers at 3T.
There has been extensive interest in assessing the long-term effects of preterm birth on brain white matter microstructure using diffusion MRI. Our aim in this study is to explore diffusion MRI differences between adolescents born preterm and term born controls, with a specific interest in characterising how such differences are manifested in white matter regions containing predominantly single or crossing fibre populations. Probabilistic high angular resolution tractography together with large deformation spatial normalisation were used to objectively investigate diffusion tensor parameters at regular intervals along fibre tracts of 45 adolescents born before 33 weeks of gestation and 30 term-born typically developing adolescents. Diffusion parameters were significantly different between preterms and controls at several levels along the cortico-spinal, thalamo-cortical and transcallosal pathways. Within the predominantly single fibre regions of the corpus callosum and internal capsule, in the preterms mean diffusivity (MD) was found to be increased while fractional anisotropy (FA) was decreased compared to controls. In contrast, however, where these pathways traversed the centrum semiovale, FA and MD were both significantly increased. The major contributor to reduced FA in preterms in predominantly single fibre regions was the increased radial eigenvalue (i.e. increased radial diffusivity). In predominantly crossing-fibre regions, the tensor eigenvalues are not meaningful, and the observed increase in FA is likely to be due to a decrease in anisotropy in one of the contributing fibre bundles. Similar differences (although less pronounced) were observed after excluding preterms with radiological signs of preterm brain injury from the sample. In summary, white matter microstructure was found to be altered in motor pathways in adolescents born preterm. Disruption of white matter (WM) microstructure in a single fibre region with resulting higher radial diffusivity leads to lower FA, whereas selective disruption of one fibre population in a crossing fibre region is observed to lead to higher FA. These findings challenge the common simplistic interpretation of FA as a measure of WM tract integrity.
Thoracic spinal cord injured rats rely largely on forelimbs to walk, as their hindlimbs are dysfunctional. This increased limb use is accompanied by expansion of the cortical forelimb sensory representation. It is unclear how quickly the representational changes occur and whether they are at all related to the behavioral adaptation. Using blood oxygenation level dependent functional mangetic resonance imaging (BOLD-fMRI) we show that major plastic changes of the somato-sensory map can occur as early as one day after injury. The extent of map increase was variable between animals, and some animals showed a reduction in map size. However, at three or seven days after injury a significant enhancement of the forelimb representation was evident in all the animals. In a behavioral test for precise limb control, crossing of a horizontal ladder, the injured rats relied almost entirely on their forelimbs; they initially made more mistakes than at 7 days post injury. Remarkably, in the individual animals the behavioral performance seen at seven days was proportional to the physiological change present at one day after injury. The rapid increase in cortical representation of the injury-spared body part may provide the additional neural substrate necessary for high level behavioral adaptation.
Pre-stimulus  power has been shown to correlate with the behavioral accuracy of perceptual decisions. In most cases, these correlations have been observed by comparing  power for different behavioral outcomes (e.g. correct vs incorrect trials). In this paper we investigate such covariation within the context of behaviorally-latent fluctuations in task-relevant post-stimulus neural activity. Specially we consider variations of pre-stimulus  power with post-stimulus EEG components in a two alternative forced choice visual discrimination task. EEG components, discriminative of stimulus class, are identified using a linear multivariate classifier and only the variability of the components for correct trials (regardless of stimulus class, and for nominally identical stimuli) are correlated with the corresponding pre-stimulus  power. We find a significant relationship between the mean and variance of the pre-stimulus  power and the variation of the trial-to-trial magnitude of an early post-stimulus EEG component. This relationship is not seen for a later EEG component that is also discriminative of stimulus class and which has been previously linked to the quality of evidence driving the decision process. Our results suggest that early perceptual representations, rather than temporally later neural correlates of the perceptual decision, are modulated by pre-stimulus state.
The influence of external factors on food preferences and choices is poorly understood. Knowing which and how food-external cues impact the sensory processing and cognitive valuation of food would provide a strong benefit toward a more integrative understanding of food intake behavior and potential means of interfering with deviant eating patterns to avoid detrimental health consequences for individuals in the long run. We investigated whether written labels with positive and negative (as opposed to 'neutral') valence differentially modulate the spatio-temporal brain dynamics in response to the subsequent viewing of high- and low-energetic food images. Electrical neuroimaging analyses were applied to visual evoked potentials (VEPs) from 20 normal-weight participants. VEPs and source estimations in response to high- and low- energy foods were differentially affected by the valence of preceding word labels over the ~260-300 ms post-stimulus period. These effects were only observed when high-energy foods were preceded by labels with positive valence. Neural sources in occipital as well as posterior, frontal, insular and cingulate regions were down-regulated. These findings favor cognitive-affective influences especially on the visual responses to high-energetic food cues, potentially indicating decreases in cognitive control and goal-adaptive behavior. Inverse correlations between insular activity and effectiveness in food classification further indicate that this down-regulation directly impacts food-related behavior.
Sensorimotor rhythms (SMRs) are oscillatory brain activities in the - and -bands across the sensorimotor regions of the brain. Each frequency band has its own specific function. The -band oscillations are closely related to intrinsic cortical networks, whereas oscillations in the -band are relevant for the information transfer between the cortex and periphery, as well as for visual and proprioceptive feedback. This study aimed to investigate the interaction between these two frequency bands, under the premise that the regional modulation of -band power is linked to a cortical network in the -band. We therefore designed a procedure to maximize the modulation of -band activity over the sensorimotor cortex by combining kinesthetic motor-imagery with closed-loop haptic feedback. The cortical network activity during this procedure was estimated via the phase slope index in electroencephalographic recordings. Analysis of effective connectivity within the -band network revealed an information flow between the precentral (premotor and primary motor), postcentral (primary somatosensory) and parietal cortical areas. The range of -modulation was connected to a reduction of an ipsilateral sensorimotor and parietal -network and, consequently, to a lateralization of this network to the contralateral side. These results showed that regional sensorimotor oscillatory activity in the -band was regulated by cortical coupling of distant areas in the -band.
Brain responses to stimulus presentations may vary widely across subjects in both time course and spatial origins. Multi-subject EEG source imaging studies that apply Independent Component Analysis (ICA) to data concatenated across subjects have overlooked the fact that projections to the scalp sensors from functionally equivalent cortical sources vary from subject to subject. This study demonstrates an approach to spatiotemporal independent component decomposition and alignment that spatially co-registers the MR-derived cortical topographies of individual subjects to a well-defined, shared spherical topology (Fischl et al., 1999). Its efficacy for identifying functionally equivalent EEG sources in multi-subject analysis is demonstrated by analyzing EEG and behavioral data from a stop-signal paradigm using two source-imaging approaches, both based on individual subject independent source decompositions. The first, two-stage approach uses temporal infomax ICA to separate each subject's data into temporally independent components (ICs), then estimates the source density distribution of each IC process from its scalp map and clusters similar sources across subjects (Makeig et al., 2002). The second approach, Electromagnetic Spatiotemporal Independent Component Analysis (EMSICA), combines ICA decomposition and source current density estimation of the artifact-rejected data into a single spatiotemporal ICA decomposition for each subject (Tsai et al., 2006), concurrently identifying both the spatial source distribution of each cortical source and its event-related dynamics. Applied to the stop-signal task data, both approaches gave IC clusters that separately accounted for EEG processes expected in stop-signal tasks, including pre/postcentral mu rhythms, anterior-cingulate theta rhythm, and right-inferior frontal responses, the EMSICA clusters exhibiting more tightly correlated source areas and time-frequency features.
Laboratory mouse models represent a powerful tool to elucidate the biological foundations of disease, but translation to and from human studies rely upon valid cross-species measures. Resting-state functional connectivity (rsFC) represents a promising translational probe of brain function; however, no convincing demonstration of the presence of distributed, bilateral rsFC networks in the mouse brain has yet been reported. Here we used blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) and cerebral blood volume (CBV) weighted fMRI to demonstrate the presence of robust and reproducible resting-state networks in the mouse brain. Independent-component analysis (ICA) revealed inter-hemispheric homotopic rsFC networks encompassing several established neuro-anatomical systems of the mouse brain, including limbic, motor and parietal cortex, striatum, thalamus and hippocampus. BOLD and CBV contrast produced consistent networks, with the latter exhibiting a superior anatomical preservation of brain regions close to air-tissue interfaces (e.g. ventral hippocampus). Seed-based analysis confirmed the inter-hemispheric specificity of the correlations observed with ICA and highlighted the presence of distributed antero-posterior networks anatomically homologous to the human salience network (SN) and default-mode network (DMN). Consistent with rsFC investigations in humans, BOLD and CBV-weighted fMRI signals in the DMN-like network exhibited spontaneous anti-correlation with neighbouring fronto-parietal areas. These findings demonstrate the presence of robust distributed intrinsic functional connectivity networks in the mouse brain, and pave the way for the application of rsFC readouts in transgenic models to investigate the biological underpinnings of spontaneous BOLD fMRI fluctuations and their derangement in pathological states.
We describe the visualization of the barrel cortex of the primary somatosensory area (S1) of ex vivo adult mouse brain with short-tracks track density imaging (stTDI). stTDI produced much higher definition of barrel structures than conventional fractional anisotropy (FA), directionally-encoded color FA maps, spin-echo T1- and T2-weighted imaging and gradient echo T1/T2*-weighted imaging. 3D high angular resolution diffusion imaging (HARDI) data were acquired at 48 micron isotropic resolution for a (3mm)(3) block of cortex containing the barrel field and reconstructed using stTDI at 10 micron isotropic resolution. HARDI data were also acquired at 100 micron isotropic resolution to image the whole brain and reconstructed using stTDI at 20 micron isotropic resolution. The 10 micron resolution stTDI maps showed exceptionally clear delineation of barrel structures. Individual barrels could also be distinguished in the 20 micron stTDI maps but the septa separating the individual barrels appeared thicker compared to the 10 micron maps, indicating that the ability of stTDI to produce high quality structural delineation is dependent upon acquisition resolution. Close homology was observed between the barrel structure delineated using stTDI and reconstructed histological data from the same samples. stTDI also detects barrel deletions in the posterior medial barrel sub-field in mice with infraorbital nerve cuts. The results demonstrate that stTDI is a novel imaging technique that enables three-dimensional characterization of complex structures such as the barrels in S1 and provides an important complementary non-invasive imaging tool for studying synaptic connectivity, development and plasticity of the sensory system.




Alzheimer's disease (AD) is still being recognized today as an unmet medical need. Currently, there is no cure and early preclinical diagnostic assay available for AD. Therefore much attention is now being directed at the development of novel methods for quantitative determination of AD biomarkers in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Here, we describe the liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry method for determination of 5-hydroxytryptamine (SER), 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA), homovanilic acid (HVA), noradrenaline (NADR), adrenaline (ADR), dopamine (DA), glutamic acid (Glu), -aminobutyric acid (GABA), 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) and histamine (HIS) in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from the rat model for human tauopathy. The benzoyl chloride was used as pre-column derivatization reagents. Neurotransmitters and metabolites were analysed on ultra performance liquid chromatography (UPLC) on C18 column in combination with tandem mass spectrometry. The method is simple, highly sensitive and showed excellent linearity with regression coefficients higher than 0.99. The accuracy was in a range of 93-113% for all analytes. The inter-day precision (n=5 days), expressed as %RSD, was in a range 2-10% for all analytes. Using this method we detected significant changes of CSF levels of two important neurotransmitters/metabolites, ADR and 5-HIAA, which correlates with progression of neurodegeneration in our animal model.
This paper describes development and validation of a simple and efficient bioanalytical procedure for simultaneous determination of phenobarbital and carbamazepine in human serum samples using high performance liquid chromatography with photodiode-array detection (HPLC-DAD) regarding a fast elution methodology in less than 5 min. Briefly, this method consisted of a simple deproteinization step of serum samples followed by HPLC analysis on a Bonus-RP column using an isocratic mode of elution with acetonitrile/K2HPO4 (pH=7.5) buffer solution (45:55). Due to the presence of serum endogenous components as non-calibrated components in the sample, second-order calibration based on multivariate curve resolution-alternating least squares (MCR-ALS), has been applied on a set of absorbance matrices collected as a function of retention time and wavelengths. Acceptable resolution and quantification results were achieved in the presence of matrix interferences and the second-order advantage was fully exploited. The average recoveries for carbamazepine and phenobarbital were 89.7% and 86.1% and relative standard deviation values were lower than 9%. Additionally, computed elliptical joint confidence region (EJCR) confirmed the accuracy of the proposed method and indicated the absence of both constant and proportional errors in the predicted concentrations. The developed method enabled the determination of the analytes in different serum samples in the presence of overlapped profiles, while keeping experimental time and extraction steps at minimum. Finally, the serum concentration levels of carbamazepine in three time intervals were reported for morphine-dependents who had received carbamazepine for treating their neuropathic pain.




The synapse number and the related dendritic spine number in the cerebral cortex of primates shows a rapid increase after birth. Depending on the brain region and species, the number of synapses reaches a peak before adulthood, and pruning takes place after this peak (overshoot-type synaptic formation). Human mental disorders, such as autism and schizophrenia, are hypothesized to be a result of either too weak or excessive pruning after the peak is reached. Thus, it is important to study the molecular mechanisms underlying overshoot-type synaptic formation, particularly the pruning phase. To examine the molecular mechanisms, we used common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). Microarray analysis of the marmoset cortex was performed in the ventrolateral prefrontal, inferior temporal, and primary visual cortices, where changes in the number of dendritic spines have been observed. The spine number of all the brain regions above showed a peak at 3 months (3 M) after birth and gradually decreased (e.g., at 6 M and in adults). In this study, we focused on genes that showed differential expression between ages of 3 M and 6 M and on the differences whose fold change (FC) was greater than 1.2. The selected genes were subjected to canonical pathway analysis, and in this study, we describe axon guidance signaling, which had high plausibility. The results showed a large number of genes belonging to subsystems within the axon guidance signaling pathway, macrophages/immune system, glutamate system, and others. We divided the data and discussion of these results into 2 papers, and this is the first paper, which deals with the axon guidance signaling and macrophage/immune system. Other systems will be described in the next paper. Many components of subsystems within the axon guidance signaling underwent changes in gene expression from 3 M to 6 M so that the synapse/dendritic spine number would decrease at 6 M. Thus, axon guidance signaling probably contributes to the decrease in synapse/dendritic spine number at 6 M, the phenomenon that fits the overshoot-type synaptic formation in primates. Microglial activity (evaluated by quantifying AIF1 expression) and gene expression of molecules that modulate microglia, decreased at 6 M, just like the synapse/dendritic spine number. Thus, although microglial activity is believed to be related to phagocytosis of synapses/dendritic spines, microglial activity alone cannot explain how pruning was accelerated in the pruning phase. On the other hand, expression of molecules that tag synapses/dendritic spines as a target of phagocytosis by microglia (e.g., complement components) increased at 6 M, suggesting that these tagging proteins may be involved in the acceleration of pruning during the pruning phase.
The mechanisms underlying paclitaxel-induced peripheral neuropathy remain unknown. Nerve growth factor (NGF) is a representative neurotrophic factor that maintains neuronal function, promotes survival, and mediates neuropathic pain. We investigated expression levels of NGF and its receptors in the dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and spinal dorsal horn (DH) following paclitaxel treatment. Intraperitoneal (I.P.) administration of paclitaxel induced significant mechanical hypersensitivity and cold allodynia in rats, significantly increased the expression of NGF and its receptor tyrosine kinase receptor A (trkA) in the DRG, and increased NGF expression in the DH. In contrast, paclitaxel treatment did not alter the mRNA levels of NGF or its receptors in the DRG, DH, sciatic nerve, or hindpaw skin. Moreover, expression of NEDD4-2, a negative regulator of trkA, was significantly increased in the DRG of paclitaxel-treated rats. Intrathecal (I.T.) administration of the tyrosine kinase receptor inhibitor k252a significantly alleviated mechanical hypersensitivity in paclitaxel-treated rats. Our results suggest that NGF-trkA signaling is involved in mechanical allodynia in paclitaxel-induced neuropathy.
This is the second report of a series paper, which reports molecular mechanisms underlying the occurrence of pruning spine phase after rapid spinogenesis phase in neonates and young infant in the primate brain. We performed microarray analysis between the peak of spine numbers [postnatal 3 months (M)] and spine pruning (postnatal 6M) in prefrontal, inferior temporal, and primary visual cortices of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). The pruning phase is not clearly defined in rodents but is in primates including the marmoset. The differentially expressed genes between 3M and 6M in all three cortical areas were selected by two-way analysis of variance. The list of selected genes was analyzed by canonical pathway analysis using &quot;Ingenuity Pathway Analysis of complex omics data&quot; (IPA; Ingenuity Systems, Qiagen, Hilden, Germany). In this report, we discuss these lists of genes for the glutamate receptor system, G-protein-coupled neuromodulator system, protector of normal tissue and mitochondria, and reelin. (1) Glutamate is a common neurotransmitter. Its receptors AMPA1, GRIK1, and their scaffold protein DLG4 decreased as spine numbers decreased. Instead, GRIN3 (NMDA receptor) increased, suggesting that strong NMDA excitatory currents may be required for a single neuron to receive sufficient net synaptic activity in order to compensate for the decrease in synapse. (2) Most of the G protein-coupled receptor genes (e.g., ADRA1D, HTR2A, HTR4, and DRD1) in the selected list were upregulated at 6M. The downstream gene ROCK2 in these receptor systems plays a role of decreasing synapses, and ROCK2 decreased at 6M. (3) Synaptic phagosytosis by microglia with complement and other cytokines could cause damage to normal tissue and mitochondria. SOD1, XIAP, CD46, and CD55, which play protective roles in normal tissue and mitochondria, showed higher expression at 6M than at 3M, suggesting that normal brain tissue is more protected at 6M. (4) Reelin has an important role in cortical layer formation. In addition, RELN and three different pathways of reelin were expressed at 6M, suggesting that new synapse formation decreased at that age. Moreover, if new synapses were formed, their positions were free and probably dependent on activity.


Pathophysiological responses to peripheral nerve injury include alterations in the activity, intrinsic membrane properties and excitability of spinal neurons. The intrinsic excitability of -motoneurons is controlled in part by the expression, regulation, and distribution of membrane-bound ion channels. Ion channels, such as Kv2.1 and SK, which underlie delayed rectifier potassium currents and afterhyperpolarization respectively, are localized in high-density clusters at specific postsynaptic sites (Deardorff et al., 2013; Muennich and Fyffe, 2004). Previous work has indicated that Kv2.1 channel clustering and kinetics are regulated by a variety of stimuli including ischemia, hypoxia, neuromodulator action and increased activity. Regulation occurs via channel dephosphorylation leading to both declustering and alterations in channel kinetics, thus normalizing activity (Misonou et al., 2004; Misonou et al., 2005; Misonou et al., 2008; Mohapatra et al., 2009; Park et al., 2006). Here we demonstrate using immunohistochemistry that peripheral nerve injury is also sufficient to alter the surface distribution of Kv2.1 channels on motoneurons. The dynamic changes in channel localization include a rapid progressive decline in cluster size, beginning immediately after axotomy, and reaching maximum within one week. With reinnervation, the organization and size of Kv2.1 clusters do not fully recover. However, in the absence of reinnervation Kv2.1 cluster sizes fully recover. Moreover, unilateral peripheral nerve injury evokes parallel, but smaller effects bilaterally. These results suggest that homeostatic regulation of motoneuron Kv2.1 membrane distribution after axon injury is largely independent of axon reinnervation.







Mammalian cells encode three closely related Ras proteins, H-Ras, N-Ras, and K-Ras. Oncogenic K-Ras mutations frequently occur in human cancers, which lead to dysregulated cell proliferation and genomic instability. However, mechanistic role of the Ras isoform regulation have remained largely unknown. Furthermore, the dynamics and function of negative regulation of GTP-loaded K-Ras have not been fully investigated. Here, we demonstrate RasG, the Dictyostelium orthologue of K-Ras, is targeted for degradation by polyubiquitination. Both ubiquitination and degradation of RasG were strictly associated with RasG activity. High resolution tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analysis indicated that RasG ubiquitination occurs at C-terminal lysines equivalent to lysines found in human K-Ras but not in H-Ras and N-Ras homologues. Substitution of these lysine residues with arginines (4KR-RasG) diminished RasG ubiquitination and increased RasG protein stability. Cells expressing 4KR-RasG failed to undergo proper cytokinesis and resulted in multinucleated cells. Ectopically expressed human K-Ras undergoes polyubiquitin-mediated degradation in Dictyostelium, whereas human H-Ras and a Dictyostelium H-Ras homologue (RasC) are refractory to ubiquitination. Our results indicate the existence of GTP-loaded K-Ras orthologue-specific degradation system in Dictyostelium, and further identification of the responsible E3-ligase may provide a novel therapeutic approach against K-Ras-mutated cancers.


In vivo electrophysiological recordings in the awake, behaving animal provide a powerful method for understanding neural signaling at the single-cell level. The technique allows experimenters to examine temporally and regionally specific firing patterns in order to correlate recorded action potentials with ongoing behavior. Moreover, single-unit recordings can be combined with a plethora of other techniques in order to produce comprehensive explanations of neural function. In this article, we describe the anesthesia and preparation for microwire implantation. Subsequently, we enumerate the necessary equipment and surgical steps to accurately insert a microwire array into a target structure. Lastly, we briefly describe the equipment used to record from each individual electrode in the array. The fixed microwire arrays described are well-suited for chronic implantation and allow for longitudinal recordings of neural data in almost any behavioral preparation. We discuss tracing electrode tracks to triangulate microwire positions as well as ways to combine microwire implantation with immunohistochemical techniques in order to increase the anatomical specificity of recorded results.
An important cellular mechanism contributing to the strength and duration of memories is activity-dependent alterations in the strength of synaptic connections within the neural circuit encoding the memory. Reversal of the memory is typically correlated with a reversal of the cellular changes to levels expressed prior to the stimulation. Thus, for stimulus-induced changes in synapse strength and their reversals to be functionally relevant, cellular mechanisms must regulate and maintain synapse strength both prior to and after the stimuli inducing learning and memory. The strengths of synapses within a neural circuit at any given moment are determined by cellular and molecular processes initiated during development and those subsequently regulated by the history of direct activation of the neural circuit and system-wide stimuli such as stress or motivational state. The cumulative actions of stimuli and other factors on an already modified neural circuit are attenuated by homeostatic mechanisms that prevent changes in overall synaptic inputs and excitability above or below specific set points (synaptic scaling). The mechanisms mediating synaptic scaling prevent potential excitotoxic alterations in the circuit but also may attenuate additional cellular changes required for learning and memory, thereby apparently limiting information storage. What cellular and molecular processes control synaptic strengths before and after experience/activity and its reversals? In this review we will explore the synapse-, whole cell-, and circuit level-specific processes that contribute to an overall zero sum-like set of changes and long-term maintenance of synapse strengths as a consequence of the accommodative interactions between long-term synaptic plasticity and homeostasis.



Serotonin/substance P synthesizing cells in the raph nuclei of the brain are candidates for designation as central chemoreceptors that are stimulated by CO2/pH. We have previously demonstrated that these neurons are CO2-stimulated in situ. Evidence also suggests that CO2-inhibited raph neurons recorded in vitro and in situ synthesize GABA. Unknown is whether there are other types of chemosensitive cells in the raph. Here, we showed that a previously unrecognized pool of raph neurons also exhibit chemosensitivity, and that they are not serotonergic. We used extracellular recording of individual raph neurons in the unanesthetized juvenile rat in situ perfused decerebrate brainstem preparation to assess chemosensitivity of raph neurons. Subsequent juxtacellular labeling of individually recorded cells, and immunohistochemistry for the serotonin synthesizing enzyme tryptophan hydroxylase and for neurokinin-1 receptor (NK1R; the receptor for substance P) indicated a group of CO2-stimulated cells that are not serotonergic, but express NK1R and are closely apposed to surrounding serotonergic cells. CO2-stimulated 5-HT and non-5-HT cells constitute distinct groups that have different firing characteristics and hypercapnic sensitivities. Non-5-HT cells fire faster and are more robustly stimulated by CO2 than are 5-HT cells. Thus, we have characterized a previously unrecognized type of CO2-stimulated medullary raph neuron that is not serotonergic, but may receive input from neighboring serotonin/substance P synthesizing chemosensitive neurons. The potential network properties of the three types of chemosensitive raph neurons (the present non-5-HT cells, serotonergic cells, and CO2-inhibited cells) remain to be elucidated.
How does our mind produce physical, goal-directed action of our body? For about 200years, philosophers and psychologists hypothesized the transformation from mind to body to rely on the anticipation of an action's sensory consequences. Whereas this hypothesis received tremendous support from behavioral experiments, the neural underpinnings of action control via such ideomotor effect anticipations are virtually unknown. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, the present study identified the inferior parietal cortex and the parahippocampal gyrus as key regions for this type of action control - setting the stage for a neuroscientific framework for explaining action control by ideomotor effect anticipations and thus enabling a synthesis of psychological and neuroscientific approaches to human action.
The amino acid taurine is required for development and functioning of the central and peripheral nervous system where it exerts osmoregulatory, neuromodulatory and anti-apoptotic actions. It is subject to cellular import by the taurine transporter slc6a6. Absence of the transporter and consequently, absence of taurine leads to several neurologic deficits and sensory losses. In a slc6a6 knock-out mouse model, consequences of congenital taurine deficiency were assessed in nociceptive sensory processes. The formalin assay, hot plate assay, and summated generator potentials in response to local nociceptive stimulation with gaseous CO2 were applied. Reduced responsiveness of slc6a6(-/-) mice to nociceptive stimulation was observed in particular to chemical nociceptive stimuli. Scl6a6 knock-out mice spent significantly less time licking the formalin injected paw and displayed smaller amplitudes of the nociceptive nasal mucosa potentials than wild-type mice (p=0.002 and 0.01 respectively). In contrast, withdrawal latencies on a hot plate did not significantly differ, suggesting that intracellular taurine deficits lead in particular to a hyposensitivity of nociceptive sensory neurons sensitive to noxious chemical stimulation. As hereditary absence of taurine affects biological processes of anatomical structure development, the altered nociceptive responses likely reflect consequences of compromised peripheral nervous system development.
The 20 amino acid (AA) N-terminus of the vesicular monoamine transporter 2 (VMAT2) was examined as a regulator of VMAT2 function. Removal of the first 16 or 19 AAs of the N-terminus resulted in a molecule with reduced ability to sequester [(3)H]-5HT. A glutathione-S-transferase-construct of the N-terminus underwent phosphorylation in the presence of PKC at serines 15 and 18. These putative phosphorylation sites were examined for effects on function. Phospho-mimetic substitution of serines 15 and 18 with aspartate in the full-length VMAT2 resulted in reduced [(3)H]-5HT sequestration and reduced methamphetamine (METH)-stimulated efflux of preloaded [(3)H]-5HT. In contrast, mutation of serines 15 and 18 to alanines maintained intact net substrate sequestration but eliminated METH-stimulated efflux of pre-accumulated [(3)H]-5HT. In summary, these data suggest a model in which the VMAT2 N-terminus regulates monoamine sequestration.
Sensory input from the temporomandibular joint (TMJ) to neurons in superficial laminae at the spinomedullary (Vc/C1-2) region is strongly influenced by estrogen status. This study determined if GABAergic mechanisms play a role in estrogen modulation of TMJ nociceptive processing in ovariectomized female rats treated with high- (HE) or low-dose (LE) estradiol (E2) for 2days. Superficial laminae neurons were activated by ATP (1mM) injections into the joint space. The selective GABAA receptor antagonist, bicuculline methiodide (BMI, 5 or 50M, 30l), applied at the site of recording greatly enhanced the magnitude and duration of ATP-evoked responses in LE rats, but not in units from HE rats. The convergent cutaneous receptive field (RF) area of TMJ neurons was enlarged after BMI in LE but not HE rats, while resting discharge rates were increased after BMI independent of estrogen status. By contrast, the selective GABAA receptor agonist, muscimol (50M, 30l), significantly reduced the magnitude and duration of ATP-evoked activity, resting discharge rate, and cutaneous RF area of TMJ neurons in LE and HE rats, whereas lower doses (5M) affected only units from LE rats. Protein levels of GABAA receptor 3 isoform at the Vc/C1-2 region were similar for HE and LE rats. These results suggest that GABAergic mechanisms contribute significantly to background discharge rates and TMJ-evoked input to superficial laminae neurons at the Vc/C1-2 region. Estrogen status may gate the magnitude of GABAergic influence on TMJ neurons at the earliest stages of nociceptive processing at the spinomedullary region.
Nobiletin, a polymethoxylated flavonoid found in citrus fruit peel, reportedly improves memory impairment in rodent models. Here we report its effect on 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced motor and cognitive deficits. Nobiletin administration (50mg/kg i.p.) for 2 consecutive weeks improved motor deficits seen in MPTP-induced Parkinson model mice by 2weeks, an effect that continued until 2weeks after drug withdrawal. Drug treatment promoted similar rescue of MPTP-induced cognitive impairment at equivalent time points. Nonetheless, nobiletin treatment did not block loss of dopaminergic neurons seen in the MPTP-treated mouse midbrain, nor did it rescue decreased tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) protein levels seen in the striatum or hippocampal CA1 region of these mice. Interestingly, nobiletin administration (50mg/kg i.p.) rescued reduced levels of Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) autophosphorylation and phosphorylation at Thr-34 of dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein-32 (DARPP-32) in striatum and hippocampal CA1 to levels seen in sham-operated mice. Likewise, CaMKII- and cAMP kinase-dependent TH phosphorylation was significantly restored by nobiletin treatment. MPTP-induced reduction of dopamine contents in the striatum and hippocampal CA1 region was improved by nobiletin administration (50mg/kg i.p.). Acute intraperitoneal administration of nobiletin also enhanced dopamine release in striatum and hippocampal CA1, an effect partially inhibited by treatment with nifedipine (a L-type Ca(2+) channel inhibitor) or NNC 55-0396 (a T-type Ca(2+) channel inhibitor) and completely abolished by combined treatment with both. Overall, our study describes a novel nobiletin activity in brain and suggests that nobiletin rescues motor and cognitive dysfunction in MPTP-induced Parkinson model mice, in part by enhancing dopamine release.
Despite the enormous public health impact of Alzheimer's disease (AD), no disease-modifying treatment has yet been proven to be efficacious in humans. A rate-limiting step in the discovery of potential therapies for humans is the absence of efficient non-invasive methods of evaluating drugs in animal models of disease. Magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) provides a non-invasive way to evaluate the animals at baseline, at the end of treatment, and serially to better understand treatment effects. In this study, MRS was assessed as potential outcome measure for detecting disease modification in a transgenic mouse model of AD. Passive immunization with two different antibodies, which have been previously shown to reduce plaque accumulation in transgenic AD mice, was used as intervention. Treatment effects were detected by MRS, and the most striking finding was attenuation of myo-inositol (mIns) increases in APP-PS1 mice with both treatments. Additionally, a dose-dependent effect was observed with one of the treatments for mIns. MRS appears to be a valid in vivo measure of anti-A therapeutic efficacy in pre-clinical studies. Because it is noninvasive, and can detect treatment effects, use of MRS-based endpoints could substantially accelerate drug discovery.
Immature neurons expressing doublecortin (DCX+) are present around cortical layer II in various mammals including guinea pigs and humans, especially enriched in the paleocortex. However, little is known whether and how functional experience affects the development of this population of neurons. We attempted to explore a modulation by experience to layer II DCX+ cells in the primary olfactory cortex in postnatal and adult guinea pigs. Neonatal and 1-year-old guinea pigs were subjected to unilateral naris-occlusion, followed 1 and 2months later by morphometry of DCX+ cells in the piriform cortex. DCX+ somata and processes were reduced in the deprived relative to the non-deprived piriform cortex in both age groups at the two surviving time points. The number of DCX+ cells was decreased in the deprived side relative to internal control at 1 and 2months in the youths and at 2months in the adults post-occlusion. The mean somal area of DCX+ cells showed a trend of decrease in the deprived side relative to the internal control in the youths. In addition, DCX+ cells in the deprived side exhibited a lower frequency of colocalization with the neuron-specific nuclear antigen (NeuN) relative to counterparts. These results suggest that normal olfactory experience is required for the maintenance and development of DCX+ immature neurons in postnatal and adult guinea pig piriform cortex.
Supplementation with omega-3 has been identified as an adjunctive alternative for the treatment of psychiatric disorders, in order to minimize symptoms. Considering the lack of understanding concerning the pathophysiology of schizophrenia, the present study hypothesized that omega 3 prevents the onset of symptoms similar to schizophrenia in young Wistar rats submitted to ketamine treatment. Moreover, the role of oxidative stress in this model was assessed. Omega-3 (0.8g/kg) or vehicle was given by orogastric gavage once daily. Both treatments were performed during 21days, starting at the 30th day of life in young rats. After 14days of treatment with omega-3 or vehicle, a concomitant treatment with saline or ketamine (25mg/kg ip daily) was started and maintained until the last day of the experiment. We evaluated the pre-pulse inhibition of the startle reflex, activity of antioxidant systems and damage to proteins and lipids. Our results demonstrate that supplementation of omega-3 prevented: decreased inhibition of startle reflex, damage to lipids in the hippocampus and striatum and damage to proteins in the prefrontal cortex. Furthermore, these changes are associated with decreased GPx in brain tissues evaluated. Together, our results suggest the prophylactic role of omega-3 against the outcome of symptoms associated with schizophrenia.
Neuronal loss is the most common and critical feature of a spectrum of brain traumas and neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). The capacity to generate new neurons in the central nervous system diminishes early during brain development and is restricted mainly to two brain areas in the mature brain: subventricular zone and subgranular zone. Extensive research on the impact of brain injury on endogenous neurogenesis and cognition has been conducted primarily using young animals, when neurogenesis is most active. However, a critical question remains to elucidate the effect of brain injury on endogenous neurogenesis and cognition in older animals, which is far more relevant for age-related neurodegenerative disorders such as AD. Therefore, we examined the impact of neuronal loss on endogenous neurogenesis in aged animals using CaM/Tet-DTA mice, a transgenic model of hippocampal cell loss. Additionally, we investigated whether the upregulation of adult neurogenesis could mitigate cognitive deficits following substantial hippocampal neuronal loss. Our findings demonstrate that aged CaM/Tet-DTA mice that sustain severe neuronal loss exhibit an upregulation of endogenous neurogenesis. However, despite this significant upregulation, neurogenesis alone is not able to mitigate the cognitive deficits observed. Our studies suggest that the aged brain has the capacity to stimulate neurogenesis post-injury; however, multiple therapeutic approaches, including upregulation of endogenous neurogenesis, will be necessary to recover brain function after severe neurodegeneration.
Although the expression of the chemokine receptor CCR1 has been demonstrated in several structures related to nociception, supporting the nociceptive role of chemokines able to activate it, the involvement of CCR1 in neoplastic pain has not been previously assessed. We have assayed the effects of a CCR1 antagonist, J113863, in two murine models of neoplastic hyperalgesia based on the intratibial injection of either NCTC 2472 fibrosarcoma cells, able to induce osteolytic bone injury, or B16-F10 melanoma cells, associated to mixed osteolytic/osteoblastic bone pathological features. The systemic administration of J113863 inhibited thermal and mechanical hyperalgesia but not mechanical allodynia in mice inoculated with NCTC 2472 cells. Moreover, in these mice, thermal hyperalgesia was counteracted following the peritumoral (10-30g) but not spinal (3-5g) administration of J113863. In contrast, hyperalgesia and allodynia measured in mice inoculated with B16-F10 cells remained unaffected after the administration of J113863. The inoculation of tumoral cells did not modify the levels of CCL3 at tumor or spinal cord. In contrast, although the concentration of CCL5 remained unmodified in mice inoculated with B16-F10 cells, increased levels of this chemokine were measured in tumor-bearing limbs, but not the spinal cord, of mice inoculated with NCTC 2472 cells. Increased levels of CCL5 were also found following the incubation of NCTC 2472, but not B16-F10, cells in the corresponding culture medium. The intraplantar injection of CCL5 (0.5ng) to nave mice evoked thermal hyperalgesia prevented by the coadministration of J113863 or the CCR5 antagonist, d-Ala-peptide T-amide (DAPTA), demonstrating that CCL5 can induce thermal hyperalgesia in mice through the activation of CCR1 or CCR5. However, contrasting with the inhibitory effect evoked by J113863, the systemic administration of DAPTA did not prevent tumoral hyperalgesia. Finally, the peritumoral administration of an anti-CCL5 antibody completely inhibited thermal hyperalgesia evoked by the inoculation of NCTC 2472 cells.
Rodents exhibit leptin resistance and high levels of prolactin/placental lactogens during pregnancy. A crosstalk between prolactin and leptin signaling has been proposed as a possible mechanism to explain the changes in energy balance during gestation. However, it remains unclear if specific neuronal populations co-express leptin and prolactin receptors. Therefore, our present study was undertaken to identify in the mouse brain prolactin-responsive cells that possibly express the leptin receptor (LepR). In addition, we assessed the leptin response in different brain nuclei of pregnant and nulliparous mice. We used a LepR-reporter mouse to visualize LepR-expressing cells with the tdTomato fluorescent protein. Prolactin-responsive cells were visualized with the immunohistochemical detection of the phosphorylated form of the signal transducer and activator of transcription-5 (pSTAT5-ir). Notably, many neurons that co-expressed tdTomato and pSTAT5-ir were observed in the medial preoptic area (MPA, 27-48% of tdTomato cells), the retrochiasmatic area (34-51%) and the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS, 16-24%) of prolactin-treated nulliparous mice, pregnant mice and prolactin-treated leptin-deficient (ob/ob) mice. The arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus (8-22%), the medial tuberal nucleus (11-15%) and the ventral premammillary nucleus (4-10%) showed smaller percentages of double-labeled cells among the groups. Other brain nuclei did not show significant percentages of neurons that co-expressed tdTomato and pSTAT5-ir. Late pregnant mice exhibited a reduced leptin response in the MPA and NTS when compared with nulliparous mice; however, a normal leptin response was observed in other brain nuclei. In conclusion, our findings shed light on how the brain integrates the information conveyed by leptin and prolactin. Our results corroborate the hypothesis that high levels of prolactin or placental lactogens during pregnancy may directly interfere with LepR signaling, possibly predisposing to leptin resistance.
Age-related hearing loss - presbycusis - is the number one communication disorder and most prevalent neurodegenerative condition of our aged population. Although speech understanding in background noise is quite difficult for those with presbycusis, there are currently no biomedical treatments to prevent, delay or reverse this condition. A better understanding of the cochlear mechanisms underlying presbycusis will help lead to future treatments. Objectives of the present study were to investigate GABAA receptor subunit 1, nicotinic acetylcholine (nACh) receptor subunit 2, and N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor subunit NR1 mRNA and protein expression changes in spiral ganglion neurons (SGN) of the CBA/CaJ mouse cochlea, that occur in age-related hearing loss, utilizing quantitative immunohistochemistry and semi-quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) techniques. We found that auditory brainstem response (ABR) thresholds shifted over 40dB from 3 to 48kHz in old mice compared to young adults. DPOAE thresholds also shifted over 40dB from 6 to 49kHz in old mice, and their amplitudes were significantly decreased or absent in the same frequency range. SGN density decreased with age in basal, middle and apical turns, and SGN density of the basal turn declined the most. A positive correlation was observed between SGN density and ABR wave 1amplitude. mRNA and protein expression of GABAAR 1 and AChR 2 decreased with age in SGNs in the old mouse cochlea. mRNA and protein expression of NMDAR NR1 increased with age in SGNs of the old mice. These findings demonstrate that there are functionally-relevant age-related changes of GABAAR, nAChR, NMDAR expression in CBA mouse SGNs reflecting their degeneration, which may be related to functional changes in cochlear synaptic transmission with age, suggesting biological mechanisms for peripheral age-related hearing loss.
Sensory neurons mediate diabetic peripheral neuropathy. Using a mouse model of diabetic peripheral neuropathy (BKS.Cg-m+/+Lepr(db)/J (db/db) mice) and cultured dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons, the present study showed that hyperglycemia downregulated miR-146a expression and elevated interleukin-1 receptor-activated kinase (IRAK1) and tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) levels in DRG neurons. In vitro, elevation of miR-146a by miR-146a mimics in DRG neurons increased neuronal survival under high-glucose conditions. Downregulation and elevation of miR-146a in DRG neurons, respectively, were inversely related to IRAK1 and TRAF6 levels. Treatment of diabetic peripheral neuropathy with sildenafil, a phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitor, augmented miR-146a expression and decreased levels of IRAK1 and TRAF6 in the DRG neurons. In vitro, blockage of miR-146a in DRG neurons abolished the effect of sildenafil on DRG neuron protection and downregulation of IRAK1 and TRAF6 proteins under hyperglycemia. Our data provide the first evidence showing that miR-146a plays an important role in mediating DRG neuron apoptosis under hyperglycemic conditions.
Recent neuroscientific studies have identified activity changes in an extensive cerebral network consisting of medial prefrontal cortex, precuneus, temporo-parietal junction, and temporal pole during the perception and identification of self- and other-generated stimuli. Because this network is supposed to be engaged in tasks which require agent identification, it has been labeled the evaluation network (e-network). The present study used self- versus other-generated movement sounds (long jumps) and electroencephalography (EEG) in order to unravel the neural dynamics of agent identification for complex auditory information. Participants (N=14) performed an auditory self-other identification task with EEG. Data was then subjected to a subsequent standardized low-resolution brain electromagnetic tomography (sLORETA) analysis (source localization analysis). Differences between conditions were assessed using t-statistics (corrected for multiple testing) on the normalized and log-transformed current density values of the sLORETA images. Three-dimensional sLORETA source localization analysis revealed cortical activations in brain regions mostly associated with the e-network, especially in the medial prefrontal cortex (bilaterally in the alpha-1-band and right-lateralized in the gamma-band) and the temporo-parietal junction (right hemisphere in the alpha-1-band). Taken together, the findings are partly consistent with previous functional neuroimaging studies investigating unimodal visual or multimodal agent identification tasks (cf. e-network) and extent them to the auditory domain. Cortical activations in brain regions of the e-network seem to have functional relevance, especially the significantly higher cortical activation in the right medial prefrontal cortex.
AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) is a serine/threonine kinase that functions as a cellular and whole organism energy sensor to regulate ATP-consuming (anabolic) and ATP-generating (catabolic) pathways. The heterotrimeric AMPK complex consists of a catalytic -subunit, regulatory -subunit, and an AMP/ATP-binding -subunit. Several alternate isoforms exist for each subunit (1, 2, 1, 2, 1, 2 and 3). However, little is known of the expression pattern or function of the individual catalytic complexes in regulating neuronal structure. In this study, we examined the role of AMPK subunits in differentiating hippocampal neurons. We found that during development, the expression of AMPK subunits increase and that activation of AMPK by energetic stress inhibits neuronal development at multiple stages, not only during axon outgrowth, but also during dendrite growth and arborization. The presence of a single functional AMPK catalytic complex was sufficient to mediate these inhibitory effects of energetic stress. Activation of AMPK mediates these effects by suppressing both the mTOR and Akt signaling pathways. These findings demonstrate that the energy-sensing AMPK pathway regulates neuronal structure in distinct regions of developing neurons at multiple stages of development.
In this study, we investigated the effect of neonatal olfactory bulbectomy (nOBX) on behavioral paradigms related to olfaction such as exploratory behavior, locomotor activity in a novel environment and social interaction. We also studied the effect of nOBX on the activity of the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) subtype of glutamate receptors during development. The behavioral effects of nOBX (postnatal day 7, PD7) were investigated in pre- (PD30) and post-pubertal (PD60) Wistar rats. NMDA receptor activity was measured with [(125)I]MK-801 in the brain regions associated with the olfactory circuitry. A significant increase in the novelty-induced locomotion was seen in the pre-pubertal nOBX rats. Although the locomotor effect was less marked than in pre-pubertal rats, the nOBX rats tested post-pubertally failed to habituate to the novel situation as quickly as the sham- and normal- controls. Pre-pubertally, the head-dipping behavior was enhanced in nOBX rats compared with sham-operated and normal controls, while normal exploratory behavior was observed between groups in adulthood. In contrast, social interaction was increased in post-pubertal animals that underwent nOBX. Both pre- and post-pubertal nOBX rats recovered olfaction. Interestingly, pre-pubertal rats showed a significant increase in the [(125)I]MK-801 binding in the piriform cortex, dorsal hippocampus, inner and outer layers of the frontal cortex and outer layer of the cingulate cortex. At post-pubertal age, no significant differences in [(125)I]MK-801 binding were observed between groups at any of the brain regions analyzed. These results suggest that nOBX produces pre-pubertal behavioral disturbances and NMDA receptor changes that are transitory with recovery of olfaction early in adulthood.

Epilepsy is a debilitating disease affecting 1-2% of the world's population. Despite this high prevalence, 30% of patients suffering from epilepsy are not successfully managed by current medication suggesting a critical need for new anti-epileptic drugs (AEDs). In an effort to discover new therapeutics for the management of epilepsy, we began our study by screening drugs that, like some currently used AEDs, inhibit histone deacetylases (HDACs) using a well-established larval zebrafish model. In this model, 7-day post fertilization (dpf) larvae are treated with the widely used seizure-inducing compound pentylenetetrazol (PTZ) which stimulates a rapid increase in swimming behavior previously determined to be a measurable manifestation of seizures. In our first screen, we tested a number of different HDAC inhibitors and found that one, 2-benzamido-1 4-naphthoquinone (NQN1), significantly decreased swim activity to levels equal to that of valproic acid, 2-n-propylpentanoic acid (VPA). We continued to screen structurally related compounds including Vitamin K3 (VK3) and a number of novel Vitamin K (VK) analogs. We found that VK3 was a robust inhibitor of the PTZ-induced swim activity, as were several of our novel compounds. Three of these compounds were subsequently tested on mouse seizure models at the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) Anticonvulsant Screening Program. Compound 2h reduced seizures particularly well in the minimal clonic seizure (6Hz) and corneal-kindled mouse models of epilepsy, with no observable toxicity. As VK3 affects mitochondrial function, we tested the effects of our compounds on mitochondrial respiration and ATP production in a mouse hippocampal cell line. We demonstrate that these compounds affect ATP metabolism and increase total cellular ATP. Our data indicate the potential utility of these and other VK analogs for the prevention of seizures and suggest the potential mechanism for this protection may lie in the ability of these compounds to affect energy production.
Stress affects brain activity and promotes long-term changes in multiple neural systems. Exposure to stressors causes substantial effects on the perception and response to pain. In several animal models, chronic stress produces lasting hyperalgesia. The insular (IC) and anterior cingulate cortices (ACC) are the regions exhibiting most reliable pain-related activity. And the IC and ACC play an important role in pain modulation via the descending pain modulatory system. In the present study we examined the expression of phospho-cAMP response element-binding protein (pCREB) and c-Fos in the IC and ACC after forced swim stress (FS) and complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) injection to clarify changes in the cerebral cortices that affect the activity of the descending pain modulatory system in the rats with stress-induced hyperalgesia. FS (day 1, 10min; days 2-3, 20min) induced an increase in the expression of pCREB and c-Fos in the anterior IC (AIC). CFA injection into the hindpaw after the FS shows significantly enhanced thermal hyperalgesia and induced a decrease in the expression of c-Fos in the AIC and the posterior IC (PIC). Quantitative image analysis showed that the numbers of c-Fos-immunoreactive neurons in the left AIC and PIC were significantly lower in the FS+CFA group (L AIC, 95.96.8; L PIC, 181.923.1) than those in the naive group (L AIC, 151.119.3, p&lt;0.05; L PIC, 274.237.3, p&lt;0.05). These findings suggest a neuroplastic change in the IC after FS, which may be involved in the enhancement of CFA-induced thermal hyperalgesia through dysfunction of the descending pain modulatory system.
Physical exercises and motor skill learning have been shown to induce changes in regional brain morphology, this has been demonstrated for various activities and tasks. Also individuals with special skills show differences in regional brain morphology. This has been indicated for professional musicians, London taxi drivers, as well as for athletes like dancers, golfers and judokas. However little is known about whether sports with different metabolic profiles (aerobic vs. anaerobic) are associated with different patterns of altered brain morphology. In this cross-sectional study we investigated two groups of high-performance athletes, one group performing sports that are thought to be mainly aerobic, and one group performing sports known to have intermittent phases of anaerobic metabolism. Using high-resolution structural imaging and voxel-based morphometry (VBM), we investigated a group of 26 male athletes consisting of 13 martial artists and 13 endurance athletes as well as a group of non-exercising men (n=13). VBM analyses revealed higher gray matter (GM) volumes in the supplementary motor area/dorsal premotor cortex (BA 6) in both athlete groups as compared to the control group. In addition, endurance athletes showed significantly higher GM volume in the medial temporal lobe (MTL), specifically in the hippocampus and parahippocampal gyrus, which was not seen in the martial arts group. Our data suggest that high-performance sports are associated with changes in regional brain morphology in areas implicated in motor planning and motor learning. In addition high-level endurance sports seem to affect MTL structures, areas that have previously been shown to be modulated by aerobic exercise.
Hemokinin-1 (HK-1) is a peptide encoded by the preprotachykinin gene, TAC-4, and shares the hydrophobic carboxyl-terminal (C-terminal) region common to mammalian tachykinin peptides, such as substance P (SP). It is generally believed that C-terminal fragments of SP elicit an excitatory effect, while pretreatment with amino-terminal (N-terminal) fragments of SP inhibits the function of SP; however, there is no available information on HK-1. Therefore, to clarify the characteristics of C-terminal and N-terminal fragments of HK-1, HK-1 was divided into HK-1 (1-5) as the N-terminal fragment and HK-1 (6-11) as the C-terminal fragment based on the similarity of amino acids between HK-1 and SP. Intrathecal administration of HK-1 (6-11) induced scratching behavior similar to HK-1, while HK-1 (1-5) hardly induced scratching. Pretreatment with HK-1 (1-5), however, attenuated scratching induced by HK-1 and SP, whereas pretreatment with SP (1-5) attenuated SP-induced scratching, but not HK-1. Furthermore, intrathecal administration of HK-1 (1-5) and SP (1-5) markedly attenuated the induction of flinching and enhancement of c-Fos expression in the spinal cord following the intradermal administration of formalin, a noxious stimulant, while pretreatment with HK-1 (1-5), but not SP (1-5), markedly attenuated the induction of scratching behavior by subcutaneous administration of pruritic agents, such as serotonin or histamine. Taken together, these findings indicate that HK-1 (1-5) suppresses pruritic and nociceptive processing, while SP (1-5) suppresses nociceptive processing. Therefore, it is suggested that HK-1 (1-5) may be a useful tool for revealing pruritic processing and HK-1 may play a crucial role in pruritic processing.

An original design and synthesis of fluorescent ligands for melatonin receptor studies is presented and consists in the fusion of the endogenous ligand with the fluorescent BODIPY core. Probes I-IV show high affinities for MT1 and MT2 melatonin receptors and exhibit fluorescence properties compatible with cell observation.


A nano-flow high-resolution screening platform, featuring a parallel chip-based microfluidic bioassay and mass spectrometry coupled to nano-liquid chromatography, was applied to screen animal venoms for nicotinic acetylcholine receptor like (nAChR) affinity by using the acetylcholine binding protein, a mimic of the nAChR. The potential of this microfluidic platform is demonstrated by profiling the Conus textile venom proteome, consisting of over 1,000 peptides. Within one analysis (&lt;90 min, 500 ng venom injected), ligands are detected and identified. To show applicability for non-peptides, small molecular ligands such as steroidal ligands were identified in skin secretions from two toad species (Bufo alvarius and Bufo marinus). Bioactives from the toad samples were subsequently isolated by MS-guided fractionation. The fractions analyzed by NMR and a radioligand binding assay with 7-nAChR confirmed the identity and bioactivity of several new ligands.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a multifactorial neurological condition associated with a genetic profile that is still not completely understood. In this study, using a whole gene microarray approach, we investigated age-dependent gene expression profile changes occurring in the hippocampus of young and old transgenic AD (3xTg-AD) and wild-type (WT) mice. The aim of the study was to assess similarities between aging- and AD-related modifications of gene expression and investigate possible interactions between the two processes. Global gene expression profiles of hippocampal tissue obtained from 3xTg-AD and WT mice at 3 and 12 months of age (m.o.a.) were analyzed by hierarchical clustering. Interaction among transcripts was then studied with the Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA) software, a tool that discloses functional networks and/or pathways associated with sets of specific genes of interest. Cluster analysis revealed the selective presence of hundreds of upregulated and downregulated transcripts. Functional analysis showed transcript involvement mainly in neuronal death and autophagy, mitochondrial functioning, intracellular calcium homeostasis, inflammatory response, dendritic spine formation, modulation of synaptic functioning, and cognitive decline. Thus, overexpression of AD-related genes (such as mutant APP, PS1, and hyperphosphorylated tau, the three genes that characterize our model) appears to favor modifications of additional genes that are involved in AD development and progression. The study also showed overlapping changes in 3xTg-AD at 3 m.o.a. and WT mice at 12 m.o.a., thereby suggesting altered expression of aging-related genes that occurs earlier in 3xTg-AD mice.




A novel series of pyrazolopyrazines is herein disclosed as mGluR5 negative allosteric modulators (NAMs). Starting from a high-throughput screen (HTS) hit (1), a systematic structure-activity relationship (SAR) study was conducted with a specific focus on balancing pharmacological potency with physicochemical and pharmacokinetic (PK) properties. This effort led to the discovery of 1-methyl-3-(4-methylpyridin-3-yl)-6-(pyridin-2-ylmethoxy)-1H-pyrazolo[3,4-b]pyrazine (PF470, 14) as a highly potent, selective, and orally bioavailable mGluR5 NAM. Compound 14 demonstrated robust efficacy in a 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-rendered Parkinsonian nonhuman primate model of l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (PD-LID). However, the progression of 14 to the clinic was terminated because of a potentially mechanism-mediated finding consistent with a delayed-type immune-mediated type IV hypersensitivity in a 90-day NHP regulatory toxicology study.
Leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) has drawn significant interest in the neuroscience research community because it is one of the most compelling targets for a potential disease-modifying Parkinson's disease therapy. Herein, we disclose structurally diverse small molecule inhibitors suitable for assessing the implications of sustained in vivo LRRK2 inhibition. Using previously reported aminopyrazole 2 as a lead molecule, we were able to engineer structural modifications in the solvent-exposed region of the ATP-binding site that significantly improve human hepatocyte stability, rat free brain exposure, and CYP inhibition and induction liabilities. Disciplined application of established optimal CNS design parameters culminated in the rapid identification of GNE-0877 (11) and GNE-9605 (20) as highly potent and selective LRRK2 inhibitors. The demonstrated metabolic stability, brain penetration across multiple species, and selectivity of these inhibitors support their use in preclinical efficacy and safety studies.


Inherited alleles account for most of the genetic risk for schizophrenia. However, new (de novo) mutations, in the form of large chromosomal copy number changes, occur in a small fraction of cases and disproportionally disrupt genes encoding postsynaptic proteins. Here we show that small de novo mutations, affecting one or a few nucleotides, are overrepresented among glutamatergic postsynaptic proteins comprising activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated protein (ARC) and N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) complexes. Mutations are additionally enriched in proteins that interact with these complexes to modulate synaptic strength, namely proteins regulating actin filament dynamics and those whose messenger RNAs are targets of fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP). Genes affected by mutations in schizophrenia overlap those mutated in autism and intellectual disability, as do mutation-enriched synaptic pathways. Aligning our findings with a parallel case-control study, we demonstrate reproducible insights into aetiological mechanisms for schizophrenia and reveal pathophysiology shared with other neurodevelopmental disorders.
There are no clinically relevant treatments available that improve function in the growing population of very preterm infants (less than 32 weeks' gestation) with neonatal brain injury. Diffuse white matter injury (DWMI) is a common finding in these children and results in chronic neurodevelopmental impairments. As shown recently, failure in oligodendrocyte progenitor cell maturation contributes to DWMI. We demonstrated previously that the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) has an important role in oligodendrocyte development. Here we examine whether enhanced EGFR signalling stimulates the endogenous response of EGFR-expressing progenitor cells during a critical period after brain injury, and promotes cellular and behavioural recovery in the developing brain. Using an established mouse model of very preterm brain injury, we demonstrate that selective overexpression of human EGFR in oligodendrocyte lineage cells or the administration of intranasal heparin-binding EGF immediately after injury decreases oligodendroglia death, enhances generation of new oligodendrocytes from progenitor cells and promotes functional recovery. Furthermore, these interventions diminish ultrastructural abnormalities and alleviate behavioural deficits on white-matter-specific paradigms. Inhibition of EGFR signalling with a molecularly targeted agent used for cancer therapy demonstrates that EGFR activation is an important contributor to oligodendrocyte regeneration and functional recovery after DWMI. Thus, our study provides direct evidence that targeting EGFR in oligodendrocyte progenitor cells at a specific time after injury is clinically feasible and potentially applicable to the treatment of premature children with white matter injury.


The composition of the postsynaptic ionotropic receptors that receive presynaptically released transmitter is critical not only for transducing and integrating electrical signals but also for coordinating downstream biochemical signaling pathways. At glutamatergic synapses in the adult CNS an overwhelming body of evidence indicates that the NMDA receptor (NMDAR) component of synaptic responses is dominated by NMDARs containing the GluN2A subunit, while NMDARs containing GluN2B, GluN2C, or GluN2D play minor roles in synaptic transmission. Here, we discovered NMDAR-mediated synaptic responses with characteristics not described elsewhere in the adult CNS. We found that GluN2A-containing receptors contribute little to synaptic NMDAR responses while GluN2B dominates at synapses of lamina I neurons in the adult spinal cord. In addition, we provide evidence for a GluN2D-mediated synaptic NMDAR component in adult lamina I neurons. Strikingly, the charge transfer mediated by GluN2D far exceeds that of GluN2A and is comparable to that of GluN2B. Lamina I forms a distinct output pathway from the spinal pain processing network to the pain networks in the brain. The GluN2D-mediated synaptic responses we have discovered in lamina I neurons provide the molecular underpinning for slow, prolonged and feedforward amplification that is a fundamental characteristic of pain.
Major progress in Dengue virus (DENV) biology has resulted from the use of infectious clones obtained through reverse genetics. The construction of these clones is commonly based on high- or low-copy number plasmids, yeast artificial chromosomes, yeast-Escherichia coli shuttle vectors, and bacterial artificial chromosomes (BACs). Prokaryotic promoters have consistently been used for the transcription of these clones. The goal of this study was to develop a novel DENV infectious clone in a BAC under the control of the cytomegalovirus immediate-early promoter and to generate a virus with the fusion envelope-green fluorescent protein in an attempt to track virus infection. The transfection of Vero cells with a plasmid encoding the DENV infectious clone facilitated the recovery of infectious particles that increased in titer after serial passages in C6/36 cells. The plaque size and syncytia phenotypes of the recombinant virus were similar to those of the parental virus. Despite the observation of autonomous replication and the detection of low levels of viral genome after two passages, the insertion of green fluorescent protein and Renilla luciferase reporter genes negatively impacted virus rescue. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study using a DENV infectious clone under the control of the cytomegalovirus promoter to facilitate the recovery of recombinant viruses without the need for in vitro transcription. This novel molecular clone will be useful for establishing the molecular basis of replication, assembly, and pathogenesis, evaluating potential antiviral drugs, and the development of vaccine candidates for attenuated recombinant viruses.










Previous behavioral research suggests enhanced local visual processing in individuals with autism spectrum disorders (ASDs). Here we used functional MRI and population receptive field (pRF) analysis to test whether the response selectivity of human visual cortex is atypical in individuals with high-functioning ASDs compared with neurotypical, demographically matched controls. For each voxel, we fitted a pRF model to fMRI signals measured while participants viewed flickering bar stimuli traversing the visual field. In most extrastriate regions, perifoveal pRFs were larger in the ASD group than in controls. We observed no differences in V1 or V3A. Differences in the hemodynamic response function, eye movements, or increased measurement noise could not account for these results; individuals with ASDs showed stronger, more reliable responses to visual stimulation. Interestingly, pRF sizes also correlated with individual differences in autistic traits but there were no correlations with behavioral measures of visual processing. Our findings thus suggest that visual cortex in ASDs is not characterized by sharper spatial selectivity. Instead, we speculate that visual cortical function in ASDs may be characterized by extrastriate cortical hyperexcitability or differential attentional deployment.
The regenerative failure of mammalian optic axons is partly mediated by Socs3-dependent inhibition of Jak/Stat signaling (Smith et al., 2009, 2011). Whether Jak/Stat signaling is part of the normal regenerative response observed in animals that exhibit an intrinsic capacity for optic nerve regeneration, such as zebrafish, remains unknown. Nor is it known whether the repression of regenerative inhibitors, such as Socs3, contributes to the robust regenerative response of zebrafish to optic nerve damage. Here we report that Jak/Stat signaling stimulates optic nerve regeneration in zebrafish. We found that IL-6 family cytokines, acting via Gp130-coupled receptors, stimulate Jak/Stat3 signaling in retinal ganglion cells after optic nerve injury. Among these cytokines, we found that CNTF, IL-11, and Clcf1/Crlf1a can stimulate optic axon regrowth. Surprisingly, optic nerve injury stimulated the expression of Socs3 and Sfpq (splicing factor, proline/glutamine rich) that attenuate optic nerve regeneration. These proteins were induced in a Jak/Stat-dependent manner, stimulated each other's expression and suppressed the expression of regeneration-associated genes. In vivo, the injury-dependent induction of Socs3 and Sfpq inhibits optic nerve regeneration but does not block it. We identified a robust induction of multiple cytokine genes in zebrafish retinal ganglion cells that may contribute to their ability to overcome these inhibitory factors. These studies not only identified mechanisms underlying optic nerve regeneration in fish but also suggest new molecular targets for enhancing optic nerve regeneration in mammals.
ATP production through oxidative phosphorylation in the mitochondria is the most efficient way to provide energy to various energy-consuming activities of the neurons. These processes require a large amount of ATP molecules to be maintained. Of these, synaptic transmission is most energy consuming. Here we report that lactate transported through monocarboxylate transporters (MCTs) at excitatory synapses constitutively supports synaptic transmission, even under conditions in which a sufficient supply of glucose and intracellular ATP are present. We analyzed the effects of MCT inhibition on neuronal activities using whole-cell recordings in brain slices of rats in the nucleus of the solitary tract. MCT inhibitors (-cyano-4-hydroxycinnamic acid (4-CIN), phloretin, and d-lactate) significantly decreased the amplitude of EPSCs without reducing release probability. Although 4-CIN significantly reduced currents mediated by heterologously expressed AMPA-Rs in oocytes (a novel finding in this study), the IC50 of the inhibitory effect on EPSC in brain slices was 3.8 times smaller than that on AMPA-R currents in oocytes. Removal of intracellular ATP significantly potentiated the inhibition of EPSC with 4-CIN in a manner that was counteracted by intracellular lactate addition. In addition, extracellular lactate rescued aglycemic suppression of EPSC, in a manner that was prevented by 4-CIN. Inhibition of MCTs also reduced NMDA-R-mediated EPSCs and, to a lesser extent, the IPSC. The reduction in EPSC amplitude by -d-glutamylglycine was enhanced by 4-CIN, suggesting also a decreased quantal content. We conclude that &quot;on-site&quot; astrocyte-neuron lactate transport to presynaptic and postsynaptic elements is necessary for the integrity of excitatory synaptic transmission.
Human sensory perception is not a faithful reproduction of the sensory environment. For example, at low contrast, objects appear to move slower and flicker faster than veridical. Although these biases have been observed robustly, their neural underpinning is unknown, thus suggesting a possible disconnect of the well established link between motion perception and cortical responses. We used functional imaging to examine the encoding of speed in the human cortex at the scale of neuronal populations and asked where and how these biases are encoded. Decoding, voxel population, and forward-encoding analyses revealed biases toward slow speeds and high temporal frequencies at low contrast in the earliest visual cortical regions, matching perception. These findings thus offer a resolution to the disconnect between cortical responses and motion perception in humans. Moreover, biases in speed perception are considered a leading example of Bayesian inference because they can be interpreted as a prior for slow speeds. Therefore, our data suggest that perceptual priors of this sort can be encoded by neural populations in the same early cortical areas that provide sensory evidence.
Interleukin-1 (IL-1) is an inflammatory cytokine that plays a prominent role in stress-induced behavioral changes. In a model of repeated social defeat (RSD), elevated IL-1 expression in the brain was associated with recruitment of primed macrophages that were necessary for development of anxiety-like behavior. Moreover, microglia activation and anxiety-like behavior associated with RSD did not occur in IL-1 receptor type-1 knock-out (IL-1R1(KO)) mice. Therefore, the objective of this study was to examine the role of IL-1 signaling in RSD-induced macrophage trafficking to the brain and anxiety-like behavior. Initial studies revealed that RSD did not increase circulating myeloid cells in IL-1R1(KO) mice, resulting in limited macrophage trafficking to the brain. In addition, IL-1R1(KO) bone marrow-chimera mice showed that IL-1R1 expression was essential for macrophage trafficking into the brain. To differentiate cellular mediators of stress-induced IL-1 signaling, endothelial-specific IL-1R1 knock-down (eIL-1R1kd) mice were used. Both wild-type (WT) and eIL-1R1kd mice had increased circulating monocytes, recruitment of macrophages to the brain, and altered microglia activation after RSD. Nonetheless, RSD-induced expression of IL-1, TNF-, and IL-6 mRNA in brain CD11b(+) cells was attenuated in eIL-1R1kd mice compared with WT. Moreover, anxiety-like behavior did not develop in eIL-1R1kd mice. Collectively, these findings demonstrated that there was limited RSD-induced priming of myeloid cells in IL-1R1(KO) mice and disrupted propagation of neuroinflammatory signals in the brain of eIL-1R1kd mice. Furthermore, these data showed that transduction of IL-1 signaling by endothelial cells potentiates stress-induced neuroinflammation and promotes anxiety-like behavior.
The dramatic increase in neocortical size and folding during mammalian brain evolution has been attributed to the elaboration of the subventricular zone (SVZ) and the associated increase in neural progenitors. However, recent studies have shown that SVZ size and the abundance of resident progenitors do not directly predict cortical topography, suggesting that complex behaviors of the progenitors themselves may contribute to the overall size and shape of the adult cortex. Using time-lapse imaging, we examined the dynamic behaviors of SVZ progenitors in the ferret, a gyrencephalic carnivore, focusing our analysis on outer radial glial cells (oRGs). We identified a substantial population of oRGs by marker expression and their unique mode of division, termed mitotic somal translocation (MST). Ferret oRGs exhibited diverse behaviors in terms of division location, cleavage angle, and MST distance, as well as fiber orientation and dynamics. We then examined the human fetal cortex and found that a subset of human oRGs displayed similar characteristics, suggesting that diversity in oRG behavior may be a general feature. Similar to the human, ferret oRGs underwent multiple rounds of self-renewing divisions but were more likely to undergo symmetric divisions that expanded the oRG population, as opposed to producing intermediate progenitor cells (IPCs). Differences in oRG behaviors, including proliferative potential and daughter cell fates, may contribute to variations in cortical structure between mammalian species.
Expression of appropriate ion channels is essential to allow developing neurons to form functional networks. Our previous studies have identified LIM-homeodomain (HD) transcription factors (TFs), expressed by developing neurons, that are specifically able to regulate ion channel gene expression. In this study, we use the technique of DNA adenine methyltransferase identification (DamID) to identify putative gene targets of four such TFs that are differentially expressed in Drosophila motoneurons. Analysis of targets for Islet (Isl), Lim3, Hb9, and Even-skipped (Eve) identifies both ion channel genes and genes predicted to regulate aspects of dendritic and axonal morphology. Significantly, some ion channel genes are bound by more than one TF, consistent with the possibility of combinatorial regulation. One such gene is Shaker (Sh), which encodes a voltage-dependent fast K(+) channel (Kv1.1). DamID reveals that Sh is bound by both Isl and Lim3. We used body wall muscle as a test tissue because in conditions of low Ca(2+), the fast K(+) current is carried solely by Sh channels (unlike neurons in which a second fast K(+) current, Shal, also contributes). Ectopic expression of isl, but not Lim3, is sufficient to reduce both Sh transcript and Sh current level. By contrast, coexpression of both TFs is additive, resulting in a significantly greater reduction in both Sh transcript and current compared with isl expression alone. These observations provide evidence for combinatorial activity of Isl and Lim3 in regulating ion channel gene expression.
Effective interactions between conspecific individuals can depend upon the receiver forming a coherent multisensory representation of communication signals, such as merging voice and face content. Neuroimaging studies have identified face- or voice-sensitive areas (Belin et al., 2000; Petkov et al., 2008; Tsao et al., 2008), some of which have been proposed as candidate regions for face and voice integration (von Kriegstein et al., 2005). However, it was unclear how multisensory influences occur at the neuronal level within voice- or face-sensitive regions, especially compared with classically defined multisensory regions in temporal association cortex (Stein and Stanford, 2008). Here, we characterize auditory (voice) and visual (face) influences on neuronal responses in a right-hemisphere voice-sensitive region in the anterior supratemporal plane (STP) of Rhesus macaques. These results were compared with those in the neighboring superior temporal sulcus (STS). Within the STP, our results show auditory sensitivity to several vocal features, which was not evident in STS units. We also newly identify a functionally distinct neuronal subpopulation in the STP that appears to carry the area's sensitivity to voice identity related features. Audiovisual interactions were prominent in both the STP and STS. However, visual influences modulated the responses of STS neurons with greater specificity and were more often associated with congruent voice-face stimulus pairings than STP neurons. Together, the results reveal the neuronal processes subserving voice-sensitive fMRI activity patterns in primates, generate hypotheses for testing in the visual modality, and clarify the position of voice-sensitive areas within the unisensory and multisensory processing hierarchies.
Deficient selection against irrelevant information has been proposed to underlie age-related cognitive decline. We recently reported evidence for maintained early sensory selection when older and younger adults used spatial selective attention to perform a challenging task. Here we explored age-related differences when spatial selection is not possible and feature-selective attention must be deployed. We additionally compared the integrity of feedforward processing by exploiting the well established phenomenon of suppression of visual cortical responses attributable to interstimulus competition. Electroencephalogram was measured while older and younger human adults responded to brief occurrences of coherent motion in an attended stimulus composed of randomly moving, orientation-defined, flickering bars. Attention was directed to horizontal or vertical bars by a pretrial cue, after which two orthogonally oriented, overlapping stimuli or a single stimulus were presented. Horizontal and vertical bars flickered at different frequencies and thereby elicited separable steady-state visual-evoked potentials, which were used to examine the effect of feature-based selection and the competitive influence of a second stimulus on ongoing visual processing. Age differences were found in feature-selective attentional modulation of visual responses: older adults did not show consistent modulation of magnitude or phase. In contrast, the suppressive effect of a second stimulus was robust and comparable in magnitude across age groups, suggesting that bottom-up processing of the current stimuli is essentially unchanged in healthy old age. Thus, it seems that visual processing per se is unchanged, but top-down attentional control is compromised in older adults when space cannot be used to guide selection.
Memory persistence is critically influenced by retrieval. In rats, a single presentation of a conditioned fear stimulus induces memory reconsolidation and fear memory persistence, while repeated fear cue presentations result in loss of fear through extinction. These two opposite behavioral outcomes are operationally linked by the number of cue presentations at memory retrieval. However, the behavioral properties and mechanistic determinants of the transition have not yet been explored; in particular, whether reconsolidation and extinction processes coexist or are mutually exclusive, depending on the exposure to non-reinforced retrieval events. We characterized both behaviorally and molecularly the transition from reconsolidation to extinction of conditioned fear and showed that an increase in calcineurin (CaN) in the basolateral amygdala (BLA) supports the shift from fear maintenance to fear inhibition. Gradually increasing the extent of retrieval induces a gradual decrease in freezing responses to the conditioned stimulus and a gradual increase in amygdala CaN level. This newly synthesized CaN is required for the extinction, but not the reconsolidation, of conditioned fear. During the transition from reconsolidation to extinction, we have revealed an insensitive state of the fear memory where NMDA-type glutamate receptor agonist and antagonist drugs are unable either to modulate CaN levels in the BLA or alter the reconsolidation or extinction processes. Together, our data indicate both that reconsolidation and extinction are mutually exclusive processes and also reveal the presence of a transitional, or &quot;limbo,&quot; state of the original memory between these two alternative outcomes of fear memory retrieval, when neither process is engaged.
The maintenance of a high density of neurotransmitter receptors at the postsynaptic apparatus is critical for efficient neurotransmission. Acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) are neurotransmitter receptors densely packed on the postsynaptic muscle membrane at the neuromuscular junction (NMJ) via anchoring onto the actin cytoskeletal network. However, how the receptor-associated actin is coordinately regulated is not fully understood. We report here that Coronin 6, a newly identified member of the coronin family, is highly enriched at adult NMJs and regulates AChR clustering through modulating the interaction between receptors and the actin cytoskeletal network. Experiments with cultured myotubes reveal that Coronin 6 is important for both agrin- and laminin-induced AChR clustering. Furthermore, Coronin 6 forms a complex with AChRs and actin in a manner dependent on its C-terminal region and a conserved Arg(29) residue at the N terminus, both of which are critical for the cytoskeletal anchorage of AChRs. Importantly, in vivo knockdown of Coronin 6 in mouse skeletal muscle fibers leads to destabilization of AChR clusters. Together, these findings demonstrate that Coronin 6 is a critical regulator of AChR clustering at the postsynaptic region of the NMJs through modulating the receptor-anchored actin cytoskeleton.
Neurites, both dendrites and axons, are neuronal cellular processes that enable the conduction of electrical impulses between neurons. Defining the structure of neurites is critical to understanding how these processes move materials and signals that support synaptic communication. Electron microscopy (EM) has been traditionally used to assess the ultrastructural features within neurites; however, the exposure to organic solvent during dehydration and resin embedding can distort structures. An important unmet goal is the formulation of procedures that allow for structural evaluations not impacted by such artifacts. Here, we have established a detailed and reproducible protocol for growing and flash-freezing whole neurites of different primary neurons on electron microscopy grids followed by their examination with cryo-electron tomography (cryo-ET). This technique allows for 3-D visualization of frozen, hydrated neurites at nanometer resolution, facilitating assessment of their morphological differences. Our protocol yields an unprecedented view of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurites, and a visualization of hippocampal neurites in their near-native state. As such, these methods create a foundation for future studies on neurites of both normal neurons and those impacted by neurological disorders.
In order to demonstrate the cell-surface localization of a putative transmembrane receptor in cultured neurons, we labeled the protein on the surface of live neurons with a specific primary antibody raised against an extracellular portion of the protein. Given that receptors are trafficked to and from the surface, if cells are permeabilized after fixation then both cell-surface and internal protein will be detected by the same labeled secondary antibody. Here, we adapted a method used to study protein trafficking (&quot;antibody feeding&quot;) to differentially label protein that had been internalized by endocytosis during the antibody incubation step and protein that either remained on the cell surface or was trafficked to the surface during this period. The ability to distinguish these two pools of protein was made possible through the incorporation of an overnight blocking step with highly-concentrated unlabeled secondary antibody after an initial incubation of unpermeabilized neurons with a fluorescently-labeled secondary antibody. After the blocking step, permeabilization of the neurons allowed detection of the internalized pool with a fluorescent secondary antibody labeled with a different fluorophore. Using this technique we were able to obtain important information about the subcellular location of this putative receptor, revealing that it was, indeed, trafficked to the cell-surface in neurons. This technique is broadly applicable to a range of cell types and cell-surface proteins, providing a suitable antibody to an extracellular epitope is available.






It was widely believed that incentives could effectively enhance the motivation of both students and employees. However, psychologists reported that extrinsic reward actually could undermine individuals' intrinsic motivation to a given interesting task, which challenged viewpoints from traditional incentive theories. Numerous studies have been carried out to test and explain the undermining effect; however, the neural basis of this effect is still elusive. Here, we carried out an electrophysiological study with a simple but interesting stopwatch task to explore to what extent the performance-based monetary reward undermines individuals' intrinsic motivation toward the task. The electrophysiological data showed that the differentiated feedback-related negativity amplitude toward intrinsic success failure divergence was prominently reduced once the extrinsic reward was imposed beforehand. However, such a difference was not observed in the control group, in which no extrinsic reward was provided throughout the experiment. Furthermore, such a pattern was not observed for P300 amplitude. Therefore, the current results indicate that extrinsic reward demotivates the intrinsic response of individuals toward success-failure outcome, which was reflected in the corresponding reduced motivational-related differentiated feedback-related negativity, but not in amplitude of P300.






















Fanconi anemia (FA) is an inherited bone marrow failure syndrome associated with a progressive decline in hematopoietic stem cells, developmental defects, and predisposition to cancer. These various phenotypic features imply a role of FA proteins in molecular events regulating cellular homeostasis. Interestingly, we previously found that the Fanconi C protein (FANCC) interacts with the C-terminal-binding protein-1 (CtBP1) involved in transcriptional regulation. Here we report that FANCC with CtBP1 forms a complex with -catenin, and that -catenin activation through glycogen synthase kinase 3 inhibition leads to FANCC nuclear accumulation and FA pathway activation, as measured by the Fanconi D2 protein (FANCD2) monoubiquitination. -catenin and FANCC nuclear entry is defective in FA mutant cells and in cells depleted of the Fanconi A protein or FANCD2, suggesting that integrity of the FA pathway is required for FANCC nuclear activity. We also report that FANCC with CtBP1 acts as a negative regulator of Dickkopf-1 (DKK1) expression, and that a FA disease-causing mutation in FANCC abrogates this function. Our findings reveal that a defective FA pathway leads to up-regulation of DKK1, a molecule involved in hematopoietic malignancies.
Computational neuroscience has uncovered a number of computational principles used by nervous systems. At the same time, neuromorphic hardware has matured to a state where fast silicon implementations of complex neural networks have become feasible. En route to future technical applications of neuromorphic computing the current challenge lies in the identification and implementation of functional brain algorithms. Taking inspiration from the olfactory system of insects, we constructed a spiking neural network for the classification of multivariate data, a common problem in signal and data analysis. In this model, real-valued multivariate data are converted into spike trains using &quot;virtual receptors&quot; (VRs). Their output is processed by lateral inhibition and drives a winner-take-all circuit that supports supervised learning. VRs are conveniently implemented in software, whereas the lateral inhibition and classification stages run on accelerated neuromorphic hardware. When trained and tested on real-world datasets, we find that the classification performance is on par with a nave Bayes classifier. An analysis of the network dynamics shows that stable decisions in output neuron populations are reached within less than 100 ms of biological time, matching the time-to-decision reported for the insect nervous system. Through leveraging a population code, the network tolerates the variability of neuronal transfer functions and trial-to-trial variation that is inevitably present on the hardware system. Our work provides a proof of principle for the successful implementation of a functional spiking neural network on a configurable neuromorphic hardware system that can readily be applied to real-world computing problems.
Prediction error signals enable us to learn through experience. These experiences include economic choices between different rewards that vary along multiple dimensions. Therefore, an ideal way to reinforce economic choice is to encode a prediction error that reflects the subjective value integrated across these reward dimensions. Previous studies demonstrated that dopamine prediction error responses reflect the value of singular reward attributes that include magnitude, probability, and delay. Obviously, preferences between rewards that vary along one dimension are completely determined by the manipulated variable. However, it is unknown whether dopamine prediction error responses reflect the subjective value integrated from different reward dimensions. Here, we measured the preferences between rewards that varied along multiple dimensions, and as such could not be ranked according to objective metrics. Monkeys chose between rewards that differed in amount, risk, and type. Because their choices were complete and transitive, the monkeys chose &quot;as if&quot; they integrated different rewards and attributes into a common scale of value. The prediction error responses of single dopamine neurons reflected the integrated subjective value inferred from the choices, rather than the singular reward attributes. Specifically, amount, risk, and reward type modulated dopamine responses exactly to the extent that they influenced economic choices, even when rewards were vastly different, such as liquid and food. This prediction error response could provide a direct updating signal for economic values.
Anticipatory and consummatory dissociation of hedonic experience may manifest as anhedonia in schizophrenia. However, it is unclear if this temporal dissociation of pleasure experience is also relevant in other symptoms like social anhedonia in the schizophrenia disorder spectrum. The present study applied two incentive delay tasks involving different incentive types (money vs. social affective images) to a sample of 28 participants with elevated social anhedonia (SocAnh) and 38 healthy controls from a population of 476 college students. The results showed that the SocAnh group had comparable anticipatory sensitivity and consummatory pleasure towards monetary incentives as the controls; but they exhibited significant decrease in both anticipatory sensitivity and consummatory experience to positive social affective images. These findings demonstrate the presence of a domain-specific deficit in people with social anhedonia towards social affective information, and suggest that incentive types could confound the findings on the dissociation of anticipatory vs. consummatory hedonic capacities.
The midbrain dopamine system has an important role in processing rewards and the stimuli associated with them, and is implicated in various psychiatric disorders. This system is tightly regulated by various G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). It is becoming increasingly clear that these receptors are not only activated by (endogenous) agonists but that they also exhibit agonist-independent intrinsic constitutive activity. In this review we highlight the evidence for the physiological role of such constitutive GPCR activity (in particular for cannabinoid 1, serotonin 2C and mu-opioid receptors) in the ventral tegmental area and in its output regions like the nucleus accumbens. We also address the behavioral relevance of constitutive GPCR signaling and discuss the repercussions of its abolition in dopamine-related psychiatric diseases.



Chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA) impairment is recognized to play a pathogenetic role in Parkinson's disease (PD). A reduced expression of lysosomal-associated membrane protein (lamp) 2A and heat shock cognate (hsc) 70 protein, the two key regulators of CMA, has been reported in brains of PD patients. To verify the existence of a possible systemic CMA dysfunction in PD, in this study the expression of hsc70 and lamp2A was assessed in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) of patients with sporadic PD and compared to healthy subjects. The expression of myocyte enhancer factor 2D (MEF2D), a transcriptional factor implicated in neuronal survival and specific substrate of CMA, was also evaluated. Protein and gene expression was assessed by Western blot and real-time PCR, respectively, in PBMC obtained from 53 sporadic PD patients and 53 healthy subjects. A significant reduction of hsc70 levels was observed in PBMC of PD patients, both under basal conditions and after autophagy induction obtained with serum deprivation. No difference emerged in lamp2A and MEF2D expression between patients and controls. No influence of the clinical characteristics of patients emerged on hsc70, lamp2A and MEF2D expression. These results, despite being not suggestive of the existence of a CMA impairment in PBMC of PD patients, identify a systemic hsc70 reduction in PD patients. Further studies on specific mechanisms and biological significance of such alteration are needed to corroborate this finding that could lead to the identification of a new trait biomarker for PD.
Peripheral polyneuropathy is a frequent complication of diabetes. One of its consequences is neuropathic pain which is often chronic and difficult to treat. This pain management classically involves anticonvulsant drugs or tricyclic antidepressant drugs (TCA). We have previously shown that 2 adrenoceptors and  opioid receptors are critical for TCA action in a traumatic model of neuropathic pain. In the present work, we used the obese leptin deficient mice (ob/ob) which are a genetic model of type 2 diabetes in order to study the treatment of diabetic polyneuropathy. ob/ob mice with hyperglycemia develop tactile bilateral allodynia. We investigated the action of the TCA nortriptyline and the 2 adrenoceptor agonist terbutaline on this neuropathic allodynia. The consequences of acute and chronic treatments were tested, and mechanical allodynia was assessed by using von Frey hairs. Chronic but not acute treatment with nortriptyline alleviates allodynia caused by the diabetic neuropathy. This effect depends on 2 adrenoceptors but not on 2 adrenoceptors, as shown by the blockade with repeated co-administration of the 2 adrenoceptor antagonist ICI118551 but not with repeated co-administration of the 2 adrenoceptor antagonist yohimbine. Direct stimulation of 2 adrenoceptors appears sufficient to relieve allodynia, as shown with chronic terbutaline treatment.  but not mu opioid receptors seem important to these action since acute naltrindole, but not acute naloxonazine, reverses the effect of chronic nortriptyline or terbutaline treatment.



Periodontitis (PO) is a multifactorial disease affecting about 10% to 20% of the general population. Several studies have suggested that part of the clinical variability in PO might be explained by genetic factors. Among the candidate genes for PO, IL1 gene polymorphisms have been broadly investigated, with variable results, for their relationship with the disease. We studied three IL1 polymorphisms, IL1A C[-889]T (rs1800587), IL1B C[3953/4]T (rs1143634), and IL1RN VNTR [+2018] (rs419598) in relation to different life styles and familiarities. We did not find correlation between these IL1 polymorphisms and chronic PO, as well as between chronic PO and life styles (smoking, alcohol, coffee, fizzy drink and fish). We found a strong correlation, also after adjustment for age, between familiarity and PO onset (P=0.0062; OR 5.754, 95% CI 1.644-20.145). In conclusion, we did confirm the previously suggested association between PO and IL1 gene cluster polymorphisms, and between PO and four common risk factors (coffee, smoking, alcohol and fizzy drinks) and one common protective factor (fish). On the contrary, we found a strong role of familiarity.
DMD gene which is composed of 79 exons is the largest known gene located on X chromosome (Xp21). Point mutations in the dystrophin gene are responsible for 30-35% of cases with DMD/BMD. Mutation analysis of all the exons of the DMD gene is costly in developing countries, therefore, a few of the exons are selected to be analyzed routinely in clinical laboratories. In this study, direct sequencing was used for detection of point mutations in 10 exons of dystrophin gene in patients affected with DMD without detectable large rearrangements. Freely available programs were used to predict the damaging effects of the mutations. Point mutations were successfully detected in three patients. Three novel mutations, two missense mutations located on nonconservative domains and a single nucleotide deletion, were detected. Missense mutations were predicted to change splicing efficiency. Detection of point mutations by DNA analysis followed by prediction of the pathogenecity by using bioinformatic tool might be an asset to provide proper diagnosis or genetic counseling to patients and their family.
Antibodies to transferrin receptor (TfR) have potential use for therapeutic entry into the brain. We have shown that bispecific antibodies against TfR and -secretase (BACE1 [-amyloid cleaving enzyme-1]) traverse the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and effectively reduce brain amyloid  levels. We found that optimizing anti-TfR affinity improves brain exposure and BACE1 inhibition. Here we probe the cellular basis of this improvement and explore whether TfR antibody affinity alters the intracellular trafficking of TfR. Comparing high- and low-affinity TfR bispecific antibodies in vivo, we found that high-affinity binding to TfR caused a dose-dependent reduction of brain TfR levels. In vitro live imaging and colocalization experiments revealed that high-affinity TfR bispecific antibodies facilitated the trafficking of TfR to lysosomes and thus induced the degradation of TfR, an observation which was further confirmed in vivo. Importantly, high-affinity anti-TfR dosing induced reductions in brain TfR levels, which significantly decreased brain exposure to a second dose of low-affinity anti-TfR bispecific. Thus, high-affinity anti-TfR alters TfR trafficking, which dramatically impacts the capacity for TfR to mediate BBB transcytosis.



Brown adipose tissue (BAT) burns calories to produce heat, and is thus relevant to energy balance. Interscapular BAT (IBAT) of donor mice was transplanted into recipient mice (transBATation). To test whether transBATation counteracts high-fat diet (HFD)-induced obesity, some sham-operated and recipient mice were fed a HFD (HFD-sham, HFD-trans) while others remained on a standard chow (chow-sham, chow-trans). HFD-trans mice had lower body weight and fat and greater energy expenditure, but similar caloric intake compared with HFD-sham mice. We hypothesized that HFD-trans mice had elevated sympathetic activity compared with HFD-sham mice, contributing to increased energy expenditure and fuel mobilization. This was supported by findings that HFD-trans mice had greater energy expenditure during a norepinephrine challenge test and higher core temperatures after cold exposure than did HFD-sham mice, implicating enhanced whole-body metabolic response and elevated sympathetic activity. Additionally, transBATation selectively increased sympathetic drive to some, but not all, white adipose tissue depots and skeletal muscles, as well as the endogenous IBAT, heart, and liver. Collectively, transBATation confers resistance to HFD-induced obesity via increase in whole-body sympathetic activity, and differential activation of sympathetic drive to some of the tissues involved in energy expenditure and fuel mobilization.

Zinc oxide (ZnO) nanoparticles (NPs) have been found to readily react with phosphate ions to form zinc phosphate (Zn3(PO4)2) crystallites. Because phosphates are ubiquitous in physiological fluids as well as waste water streams, it is important to examine the potential effects that the formation of Zn3(PO4)2 crystallites may have on cell viability. Thus, the cytotoxic response of NIH/3T3 fibroblast cells was assessed following 24h of exposure to ZnO NPs suspended in media with and without the standard phosphate salt supplement. Both particle dosage and size have been shown to impact the cytotoxic effects of ZnO NPs, so doses ranging from 5 to 50 g/mL were examined and agglomerate size effects were investigated by using the bioinert amphiphilic polymer polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP) to generate water-soluble ZnO ranging from individually dispersed 4 nm NPs up to micron-sized agglomerates. Cell metabolic activity measures indicated that the presence of phosphate in the suspension media can led to significantly reduced cell viability at all agglomerate sizes and at lower ZnO dosages. In addition, a reduction in cell viability was observed when agglomerate size was decreased, but only in the phosphate-containing media. These metabolic activity results were reflected in separate measures of cell death via the lactate dehydrogenase assay. Our results suggest that, while higher doses of water-soluble ZnO NPs are cytotoxic, the presence of phosphates in the surrounding fluid can lead to significantly elevated levels of cell death at lower ZnO NP doses. Moreover, the extent of this death can potentially be modulated or offset by tuning the agglomerate size. These findings underscore the importance of understanding how nanoscale materials can interact with the components of surrounding fluids so that potential adverse effects of such interactions can be controlled.









Multiple system atrophy (MSA) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease characterized by the accumulation of -synuclein protein in the cytoplasm of oligodendrocytes, the myelin-producing support cells of the central nervous system (CNS). The brain is the most lipid-rich organ in the body and disordered metabolism of various lipid constituents is increasingly recognized as an important factor in the pathogenesis of several neurodegenerative diseases. -Synuclein is a 17kDa protein with a close association to lipid membranes and biosynthetic processes in the CNS, yet its precise function is a matter of speculation, particularly in oligodendrocytes. -Synuclein aggregation in neurons is a well-characterized feature of Parkinson's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies. Epidemiological evidence and in vitro studies of -synuclein molecular dynamics suggest that disordered lipid homeostasis may play a role in the pathogenesis of -synuclein aggregation. However, MSA is distinct from other -synucleinopathies in a number of respects, not least the disparate cellular focus of -synuclein pathology. The recent identification of causal mutations and polymorphisms in COQ2, a gene encoding a biosynthetic enzyme for the production of the lipid-soluble electron carrier coenzyme Q10 (ubiquinone), puts membrane transporters as central to MSA pathogenesis, although how such transporters are involved in the early myelin degeneration observed in MSA remains unclear. The purpose of this review is to bring together available evidence to explore the potential role of membrane transporters and lipid dyshomeostasis in the pathogenesis of -synuclein aggregation in MSA. We hypothesize that dysregulation of the specialized lipid metabolism involved in myelin synthesis and maintenance by oligodendrocytes underlies the unique neuropathology of MSA.






Understanding how different species of A are generated by -secretase cleavage has broad therapeutic implications, because shifts in -secretase processing that increase the relative production of Ax-42/43 can initiate a pathological cascade, resulting in Alzheimer disease. We have explored the sequential stepwise -secretase cleavage model in cells. Eighteen BRI2-A fusion protein expression constructs designed to generate peptides from A1-38 to A1-55 and C99 (CTF) were transfected into cells, and A production was assessed. Secreted and cell-associated A were detected using ELISA and immunoprecipitation MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry. A peptides from 1-38 to 1-55 were readily detected in the cells and as soluble full-length A proteins in the media. A peptides longer than A1-48 were efficiently cleaved by -secretase and produced varying ratios of A1-40:A1-42. -Secretase cleavage of A1-51 resulted in much higher levels of A1-42 than any other long A peptides, but the processing of A1-51 was heterogeneous with significant amounts of shorter As, including A1-40, produced. Two PSEN1 variants altered A1-42 production from A1-51 but not A1-49. Unexpectedly, long A peptide substrates such as A1-49 showed reduced sensitivity to inhibition by -secretase inhibitors. In contrast, long A substrates showed little differential sensitivity to multiple -secretase modulators. Although these studies further support the sequential -secretase cleavage model, they confirm that in cells the initial -secretase cleavage does not precisely define subsequent product lines. These studies also raise interesting issues about the solubility and detection of long A, as well as the use of truncated substrates for assessing relative potency of -secretase inhibitors.
The protein mutated in Huntington disease (HD), mutant huntingtin (mHtt), is expressed throughout the brain and body. However, the pathology of HD is characterized by early and dramatic destruction selectively of the striatum. We previously reported that the striatal-specific protein Rhes binds mHtt and enhances its cytotoxicity. Moreover, Rhes-deleted mice are dramatically protected from neurodegeneration and motor dysfunction in mouse models of HD. We now report a function of Rhes in autophagy, a lysosomal degradation pathway implicated in aging and HD neurodegeneration. In PC12 cells, deletion of endogenous Rhes decreases autophagy, whereas Rhes overexpression activates autophagy. These effects are independent of mTOR and opposite in the direction predicted by the known activation of mTOR by Rhes. Rhes robustly binds the autophagy regulator Beclin-1, decreasing its inhibitory interaction with Bcl-2 independent of JNK-1 signaling. Finally, co-expression of mHtt blocks Rhes-induced autophagy activation. Thus, the isolated pathology and delayed onset of HD may reflect the striatal-selective expression and changes in autophagic activity of Rhes.



Cerebral perfusion is important in older adults as it is linked to cognitive declines. Physical activity can improve blood flow in the body but little is known about the relationship between physical activity and cerebral perfusion in older adults. In particular, no study has investigated the relation between strength training and cerebral perfusion. We examined whether different types of physical activity (assessed with the Rapid Assessment of Physical Activity questionnaire) were associated with MRI cerebrovascular perfusion in 59 older adults. There was a significant interaction between gender and strength training, such that women who engaged in strength training (weight lifting or calisthenics) at least once per week exhibited significantly greater cerebrovascular perfusion than women who did not. This interaction remained significant after controlling for other physical activity, demographics, and health variables. These findings suggest that regular strength training can be beneficial for cerebrovascular health in women.
Interhemispheric coherence for 19 channel EEG activity collected over a three year period from 184 men and women who relaxed in a quiet, darkened chamber showed significant increased coherence between caudal temporal regions for the 11 Hz frequency band during increased (&gt;8 nT) global geomagnetic activity at the time of measurement. Detailed analyses from source-localization indicated that a likely origin was the parahippocampal regions whose net differences at 10, 11 and 12 Hz intervals were significantly correlated with geomagnetic activity. Analyses of residuals to obtain a &quot;purer&quot; measure of parahippocampal contributions indicated that interhemispheric temporal lobe coherence across unit increments between 1 and 40 Hz revealed the most statistically significant peaks at 7.5 Hz and 19.5 Hz. These weak but reliable correlations between global geomagnetic activity and the degree of inter-temporal lobe coherence for normal people relaxing in a dark, quiet area are consistent with the results of multiple studies indicating that intrusive experiences such as &quot;presences&quot; or &quot;hallucinations&quot; are more frequent when global geomagnetic activity increases above 15-20 nT.



Improving and Accelerating Therapeutic Development for Nervous System Disorders is the summary of a workshop convened by the IOM Forum on Neuroscience and Nervous System Disorders to examine opportunities to accelerate early phases of drug development for nervous system drug discovery. Workshop participants discussed challenges in neuroscience research for enabling faster entry of potential treatments into first-in-human trials, explored how new and emerging tools and technologies may improve the efficiency of research, and considered mechanisms to facilitate a more effective and efficient development pipeline. There are several challenges to the current drug development pipeline for nervous system disorders. The fundamental etiology and pathophysiology of many nervous system disorders are unknown and the brain is inaccessible to study, making it difficult to develop accurate models. Patient heterogeneity is high, disease pathology can occur years to decades before becoming clinically apparent, and diagnostic and treatment biomarkers are lacking. In addition, the lack of validated targets, limitations related to the predictive validity of animal models - the extent to which the model predicts clinical efficacy - and regulatory barriers can also impede translation and drug development for nervous system disorders. Improving and Accelerating Therapeutic Development for Nervous System Disorders identifies avenues for moving directly from cellular models to human trials, minimizing the need for animal models to test efficacy, and discusses the potential benefits and risks of such an approach. This report is a timely discussion of opportunities to improve early drug development with a focus toward preclinical trials.
Optic nerve atrophy and hypoplasia can be primary disorders or can result from trans-synaptic degeneration arising from cerebral visual impairment (CVI). Here we report six individuals with CVI and/or optic nerve abnormalities, born after an uneventful pregnancy and delivery, who have either de novo heterozygous missense mutations in NR2F1, also known as COUP-TFI, or deletions encompassing NR2F1. All affected individuals show mild to moderate intellectual impairment. NR2F1 encodes a nuclear receptor protein that regulates transcription. A reporter assay showed that missense mutations in the zinc-finger DNA-binding domain and the putative ligand-binding domain decrease NR2F1 transcriptional activity. These findings indicate that NR2F1 plays an important role in the neurodevelopment of the visual system and that its disruption can lead to optic atrophy with intellectual disability.



Following brain injury, reactive glial cells can create scars that inhibit neural repair responses. In this issue of Cell Stem Cell, Guo et al. report that overexpression of NeuroD1 in vivo can directly reprogram reactive glial cells into glutamatergic and GABAergic neurons that integrate into the host's neural circuitry.

















Photoactivatable &quot;caged&quot; neurotransmitters allow optical control of neural tissue with high spatial and temporal precision. However, the development of caged versions of the chief vertebrate inhibitory neurotransmitter, -amino butyric acid (GABA), has been limited by the propensity of caged GABAs to interact with GABA receptors. We describe herein the synthesis and application of a practically useful doubly caged GABA analog, termed bis--carboxy-2-nitrobenzyl-GABA (bis-CNB-GABA). Uncaging of bis-CNB-GABA evokes inward GABAergic currents in cerebellar molecular layer interneurons with rise times of 2 ms, comparable to flash duration. Response amplitudes depend on the square of flash intensity, as expected for a chemical two-photon uncaging effect. Importantly, prior to uncaging, bis-CNB-GABA is inactive at the GABAA receptor, evoking no changes in holding current in voltage-clamped neurons and showing an IC50 of at least 2.5 mM as measured using spontaneous GABAergic synaptic currents. Bis-CNB-GABA is stable in solution, with an estimated half-life of 98 days in the light. We expect that bis-CNB-GABA will prove to be an effective tool for high-resolution chemical control of brain circuits.
Two types of sensory hair cells in the mammalian cochlea signal through anatomically distinct populations of spiral ganglion afferent neurons. The solitary inner hair cell ribbon synapse uses multivesicular release to trigger action potentials that encode acoustic timing, intensity, and frequency in each type I afferent. In contrast, cochlear outer hair cells (OHCs) have a far weaker effect on their postsynaptic targets, the type II spiral ganglion afferents. OHCs typically release single vesicles with low probability so that extensive summation is required to reach the relatively high action potential initiation threshold. These stark differences in synaptic transfer call into question whether type II neurons contribute to the cognitive perception of sound. Given the sparse and weak synaptic inputs from OHCs, the electrical properties of type II afferents are crucial in determining whether synaptic responses can sum to evoke an action potential to convey information to the cochlear nucleus. In the present work, dual-electrode recordings determined that type II afferents of rats have length constants that exceed the length of the distal, spiral process, enabling spatial summation from widespread OHCs. Focal application of tetrodotoxin localized the spike initiation zone to the type II proximal, radial process, near the spiral ganglion, in agreement with the high voltage threshold measured in the spiral process. These measured membrane properties were incorporated into a compartmental model of the type II neuron to demonstrate that neurotransmitter release from at least six OHCs is required to trigger an action potential in a type II neuron.
Long-term depression (LTD) and long-term potentiation (LTP) at cerebellar parallel fiber-Purkinje cell (PF-PC) synapses play critical roles in motor learning. The 1 Hz stimulation at PF-PC synapses induces a postsynaptically expressed LTP that requires a postsynaptic Ca(2+) transient, phosphatases, and nitric oxide (NO). However, the mechanism underlying 1 Hz PF-LTP remains unclear because none of the known events is related to each other. Here, we demonstrated that 1 Hz PF-LTP requires postsynaptic cytosolic phospholipase A2  (cPLA2)/arachidonic acid (AA) signaling and presynaptic endocannabinoid receptors. Using patch-clamp recording in cerebellar slices, we found that 1 Hz PF-LTP was abolished in cPLA2-knock-out mice. This deficit was effectively rescued by the conjunction of 1 Hz PF stimulation and the local application of AA. 2-Arachidonoylglycerol and the retrograde activation of cannabinoid receptor 1 (CB1R) were also involved in 1 Hz LTP because it was blocked by the hydrolysis of 2-AG or by inhibiting CB1Rs. The amount of NO released was detected using an NO electrode in cultured granule cells and PF terminals. Our results showed that the activation of CB1Rs at PF terminals activated NO synthetase and promoted NO production. The 1 Hz PF-stimuli evoked limited NO, but 100 Hz PF stimulation generated a large amount. Therefore, 1 Hz PF-LTP, distinct from classical postsynaptically expressed plasticity, requires concurrent presynaptic and postsynaptic activity. In addition, NO of sufficient amplitude decides between the weakening and strengthening of PF-PC synapses.
Motor neurons are progressively and predominantly degenerated in ALS, which is not only induced by multiple intrinsic pathways but also significantly influenced by the neighboring glial cells. In particular, astrocytes derived from the SOD1 mutant mouse model of ALS or from human familial or sporadic ALS patient brain tissue directly induce motor neuron death in culture; however, the mechanisms of pathological astroglial secretion remain unclear. Here we investigated abnormal calcium homeostasis and altered exocytosis in SOD1G93A astrocytes. We found that purinergic stimulation induces excess calcium release from the ER stores in SOD1G93A astrocytes, which results from the abnormal ER calcium accumulation and is independent of clearance mechanisms. Furthermore, pharmacological studies suggested that store-operated calcium entry (SOCE), a calcium refilling mechanism responsive to ER calcium depletion, is enhanced in SOD1G93A astrocytes. We found that oxidant-induced increased S-glutathionylation and calcium-independent puncta formation of the ER calcium sensor STIM1 underlies the abnormal SOCE response in SOD1G93A astrocytes. Enhanced SOCE contributes to ER calcium overload in SOD1G93A astrocytes and excess calcium release from the ER during ATP stimulation. In addition, ER calcium release induces elevated ATP release from SOD1G93A astrocytes, which can be inhibited by the overexpression of dominant-negative SNARE. Selective inhibition of exocytosis in SOD1G93A astrocytes significantly prevents astrocyte-mediated toxicity to motor neurons and delays disease onset in SOD1G93A mice. Our results characterize a novel mechanism responsible for calcium dysregulation in SOD1G93A astrocytes and provide the first in vivo evidence that astrocyte exocytosis contributes to the pathogenesis of ALS.
Tonically active neurons (TANs)--presumably, striatal cholinergic interneurons--exert a strong influence on striatal information processing. Primate studies often describe a characteristic TAN response comprising suppressed activity followed by rebound firing that occasionally is preceded by a brief activation. By contrast, studies in behaving rats report pronounced excitation during movement. These differences in firing patterns may be due to variations in behavioral conditions or could stem from the fact that TANs in rodents use different neuronal mechanisms. If similar/different task conditions yield similar/different activity patterns, then the two species may share neuronal mechanisms; however, if similar task conditions yield different activity patterns, then the two species use different neuronal mechanisms. To evaluate these possibilities, we recorded TAN activity in the ventral and dorsolateral striatal regions in rats performing a simple instrumental task similar in concept to one used in primate studies. We demonstrate that TAN activity is substantially influenced by event context; yet, under identical task conditions, primate and rat TANs display similar activity patterns, whereas under different conditions they do not. Our results suggest that the observed differences in firing patterns likely reflect dissimilarities in task attributes rather than species-dependent neuronal mechanisms and call for re-evaluation of the excitatory response in primate research.
Cholinergic neurotransmission has been shown to play an important role in modulating attentional processing of visual stimuli. However, it is not yet clear whether the neurochemical acetylcholine (ACh) is necessary exclusively for visual attention, or if it also contributes to attentional functions through some modality-independent (supramodal) mechanism. To answer this question, we examined the effects of reduced cortical cholinergic afferentation on both a traditional visual and a novel olfactory five-choice serial reaction time task (5-CSRTT), the benchmark rodent test of sustained attention in rats. Following the successful acquisition of both modalities of the task, the rats underwent either a cholinergic immunotoxic- or sham-lesion surgery of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis (NBM), the basal forebrain nuclei that provide the majority of neocortical ACh. Reduced cholinergic afferentation to the neocortex was induced by bilaterally infusing the cholinergic immunotoxin 192 IgG-saporin into the NBM. After surgery, ACh-NBM-lesioned rats performed comparably to sham-lesioned rats under the conditions of low attentional demand, but displayed behavioral decrements relative to the sham-lesioned rats when the attentional demands of the task were increased. Moreover, this decrement in attentional functioning correlated significantly with the number of choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive cells in the NBM. Importantly, the nature of this behavioral decrement was identical in the visual and olfactory 5-CSRTTs. Together, these data suggest the presence of a supramodal attentional modulatory cortical network whose activity is dependent on cholinergic innervation from the NBM.
Memory stability and change are considered opposite outcomes. We tested the counterintuitive notion that both depend on one process: hippocampal binding of memory features to associatively novel information, or associative novelty binding (ANB). Building on the idea that dominant memory features, or &quot;traces,&quot; are most susceptible to modification, we hypothesized that ANB would selectively involve dominant traces. Therefore, memory stability versus change should depend on whether the currently dominant trace is old versus updated; in either case, novel information will be bound with it, causing either maintenance (when old) or change (when updated). People in our experiment studied objects at locations within scenes (contexts). During reactivation in a new context, subjects moved studied objects to new locations either via active location recall or by passively dragging objects to predetermined locations. After active reactivation, the new object location became dominant in memory, whereas after passive reactivation, the old object location maintained dominance. In both cases, hippocampal ANB bound the currently dominant object-location memory with a context with which it was not paired previously (i.e., associatively novel). Stability occurred in the passive condition when ANB united the dominant original location trace with an associatively novel newer context. Change occurred in the active condition when ANB united the dominant updated object location with an associatively novel and older context. Hippocampal ANB of the currently dominant trace with associatively novel contextual information thus provides a single mechanism to support memory stability and change, with shifts in trace dominance during reactivation dictating the outcome.
Environmental insults during sensitive periods can affect hippocampal development and function, but little is known about peripheral infection, especially in humans and other animals whose brain is gyrencephalic and experiences major perinatal growth. Using a piglet model, the present study showed that inoculation on postnatal day 7 with the porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV) caused microglial activation within the hippocampus with 82% and 43% of isolated microglia being MHC II(+) 13 and 20 d after inoculation, respectively. In control piglets, &lt;5% of microglia isolated from the hippocampus were MHC II(+). PRRSV piglets were febrile (p &lt; 0.0001), anorectic (p &lt; 0.0001), and weighed less at the end of the study (p = 0.002) compared with control piglets. Increased inflammatory gene expression (e.g., IL-1, IL-6, TNF-, and IFN-) was seen across multiple brain regions, including the hippocampus, whereas reductions in CD200, NGF, and MBP were evident. In a test of spatial learning, PRRSV piglets took longer to acquire the task, had a longer latency to choice, and had a higher total distance moved. Overall, these data demonstrate that viral respiratory infection is associated with a marked increase in activated microglia in the hippocampus, neuroinflammation, and impaired performance in a spatial cognitive task. As respiratory infections are common in human neonates and infants, approaches to regulate microglial cell activity are likely to be important.
The role of spontaneously occurring release events in glutamatergic and GABAergic neurons and their regulation is intensely debated. To study the interdependence of glutamatergic and GABAergic spontaneous release, we compared reciprocally connected &quot;mixed&quot; glutamatergic/GABAergic neuronal pairs from mice cultured on astrocyte islands with &quot;homotypic&quot; glutamatergic or GABAergic pairs and autaptic neurons. We measured mEPSC and mIPSC frequencies simultaneously from both neurons. Neuronal pairs formed both interneuronal synaptic and autaptic connections indiscriminately. We find that whereas mEPSC and mIPSC frequencies did not deviate between autaptic and synaptic connections, the frequency of mEPSCs in mixed pairs was strongly depressed compared with either autaptic neurons or glutamatergic pairs. Simultaneous imaging of synapses, or comparison to evoked release amplitudes, showed that this decrease was not caused by fewer active synapses. The mEPSC frequency was negatively correlated with the mIPSC frequency, indicating interdependence. Moreover, the reduction in mEPSC frequency was abolished when established pairs were exposed to bicuculline for 3 d, but not by long-term incubation with tetrodotoxin, indicating that spontaneous GABA release downregulates mEPSC frequency. Further investigations showed that knockout of synaptotagmin-1 did not affect mEPSC frequencies in either glutamatergic autaptic neurons or in glutamatergic pairs. However, in mixed glutamatergic/GABAergic pairs, mEPSC frequencies were increased by a factor of four in the synaptotagmin-1-null neurons, which is in line with data obtained from mixed cultures. The effect persisted after incubation with BAPTA-AM. We conclude that spontaneous GABA release exerts control over mEPSC release, and GABAergic innervation of glutamatergic neurons unveils the unclamping phenotype of the synaptotagmin-1-null neurons.
Cell-type diversity in the brain enables the assembly of complex neural circuits, whose organization and patterns of activity give rise to brain function. However, the identification of distinct neuronal populations within a given brain region is often complicated by a lack of objective criteria to distinguish one neuronal population from another. In the external segment of the globus pallidus (GPe), neuronal populations have been defined using molecular, anatomical, and electrophysiological criteria, but these classification schemes are often not generalizable across preparations and lack consistency even within the same preparation. Here, we present a novel use of existing transgenic mouse lines, Lim homeobox 6 (Lhx6)-Cre and parvalbumin (PV)-Cre, to define genetically distinct cell populations in the GPe that differ molecularly, anatomically, and electrophysiologically. Lhx6-GPe neurons, which do not express PV, are concentrated in the medial portion of the GPe. They have lower spontaneous firing rates, narrower dynamic ranges, and make stronger projections to the striatum and substantia nigra pars compacta compared with PV-GPe neurons. In contrast, PV-GPe neurons are more concentrated in the lateral portions of the GPe. They have narrower action potentials, deeper afterhyperpolarizations, and make stronger projections to the subthalamic nucleus and parafascicular nucleus of the thalamus. These electrophysiological and anatomical differences suggest that Lhx6-GPe and PV-GPe neurons participate in different circuits with the potential to contribute to different aspects of motor function and dysfunction in disease.
The appearance and disappearance of dendritic spines, accompanied by synapse formation and elimination may underlie the experience-dependent reorganization of cortical circuits. The exact temporal relationship between spine and synapse formation in vivo remains unclear, as does the extent to which synapse formation enhances the stability of newly formed spines and whether transient spines produce synapses. We used in utero electroporation of DsRedExpress- and eGFP-tagged postsynaptic density protein 95 (PSD-95) to investigate the relationship between spine and PSD stability in mouse neocortical L2/3 pyramidal cells in vivo. Similar to previous studies, spines and synapses appeared and disappeared, even in naive animals. Cytosolic spine volumes and PSD-95-eGFP levels in spines covaried over time, suggesting that the strength of many individual synapses continuously changes in the adult neocortex. The minority of newly formed spines acquired PSD-95-eGFP puncta. Spines that failed to acquire a PSD rarely survived for more than a day. Although PSD-95-eGFP accumulation was associated with increased spine lifetimes, most new spines with a PSD did not convert into persistent spines. This indicates that transient spines may serve to produce short-lived synaptic contacts. Persistent spines that were destined to disappear showed, on average, reduced PSD-95-eGFP levels well before the actual pruning event. Altogether, our data indicate that the PSD size relates to spine stability in vivo.
Omega-3 fatty acids are essential for healthy brain and retinal development and have been implicated in a variety of neurodevelopmental disorders. This study used resting-state functional connectivity MRI to define the large-scale organization of the rhesus macaque brain and changes associated with differences in lifetime -3 fatty acid intake. Monkeys fed docosahexaenoic acid, the long-chain -3 fatty acid abundant in neural membranes, had cortical modular organization resembling the healthy human brain. In contrast, those with low levels of dietary -3 fatty acids had decreased functional connectivity within the early visual pathway and throughout higher-order associational cortex and showed impairment of distributed cortical networks. Our findings illustrate the similarity in modular cortical organization between the healthy human and macaque brain and support the notion that -3 fatty acids play a crucial role in developing and/or maintaining distributed, large-scale brain systems, including those essential for normal cognitive function.
Parkinson's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies are associated with abnormal neuronal aggregation of -synuclein. However, the mechanisms of aggregation and their relationship to disease are poorly understood. We developed an in vivo multiphoton imaging paradigm to study -synuclein aggregation in mouse cortex with subcellular resolution. We used a green fluorescent protein-tagged human -synuclein mouse line that has moderate overexpression levels mimicking human disease. Fluorescence recovery after photobleaching (FRAP) of labeled protein demonstrated that somatic -synuclein existed primarily in an unbound, soluble pool. In contrast, -synuclein in presynaptic terminals was in at least three different pools: (1) as unbound, soluble protein; (2) bound to presynaptic vesicles; and (3) as microaggregates. Serial imaging of microaggregates over 1 week demonstrated a heterogeneous population with differing -synuclein exchange rates. The microaggregate species were resistant to proteinase K, phosphorylated at serine-129, oxidized, and associated with a decrease in the presynaptic vesicle protein synapsin and glutamate immunogold labeling. Multiphoton FRAP provided the specific binding constants for -synuclein's binding to synaptic vesicles and its effective diffusion coefficient in the soma and axon, setting the stage for future studies targeting synuclein modifications and their effects. Our in vivo results suggest that, under moderate overexpression conditions, -synuclein aggregates are selectively found in presynaptic terminals.
Many researchers, across incredibly diverse foci, are applying phylogenetics to their research question(s). However, many researchers are new to this topic and so it presents inherent problems. Here we compile a practical introduction to phylogenetics for nonexperts. We outline in a step-by-step manner, a pipeline for generating reliable phylogenies from gene sequence datasets. We begin with a user-guide for similarity search tools via online interfaces as well as local executables. Next, we explore programs for generating multiple sequence alignments followed by protocols for using software to determine best-fit models of evolution. We then outline protocols for reconstructing phylogenetic relationships via maximum likelihood and Bayesian criteria and finally describe tools for visualizing phylogenetic trees. While this is not by any means an exhaustive description of phylogenetic approaches, it does provide the reader with practical starting information on key software applications commonly utilized by phylogeneticists. The vision for this article would be that it could serve as a practical training tool for researchers embarking on phylogenetic studies and also serve as an educational resource that could be incorporated into a classroom or teaching-lab.
Zebrafish is a powerful vertebrate model system for studying development, modeling disease, and performing drug screening. Recently a variety of genetic tools have been introduced, including multiple strategies for inducing mutations and generating transgenic lines. However, large-scale screening is limited by traditional genotyping methods, which are time-consuming and labor-intensive. Here we describe a technique to analyze zebrafish genotypes by PCR combined with high-resolution melting analysis (HRMA). This approach is rapid, sensitive, and inexpensive, with lower risk of contamination artifacts. Genotyping by PCR with HRMA can be used for embryos or adult fish, including in high-throughput screening protocols.


There is accumulating neural evidence to support the existence of two distinct systems for guiding action selection, a deliberative &quot;model-based&quot; and a reflexive &quot;model-free&quot; system. However, little is known about how the brain determines which of these systems controls behavior at one moment in time. We provide evidence for an arbitration mechanism that allocates the degree of control over behavior by model-based and model-free systems as a function of the reliability of their respective predictions. We show that the inferior lateral prefrontal and frontopolar cortex encode both reliability signals and the output of a comparison between those signals, implicating these regions in the arbitration process. Moreover, connectivity between these regions and model-free valuation areas is negatively modulated by the degree of model-based control in the arbitrator, suggesting that arbitration may work through modulation of the model-free valuation system when the arbitrator deems that the model-based system should drive behavior.
Sensory systems adjust continuously to the environment. The effects of recent sensory experience-or adaptation-are typically assayed by recording in a relevant subcortical or cortical network. However, adaptation effects cannot be localized to a single, local network. Adjustments in one circuit or area will alter the input provided to others, with unclear consequences for computations implemented in downstream circuits. Here, we show that prolonged adaptation with drifting gratings, which alters responses in the early visual system, impedes the ability of area MT neurons to integrate motion signals in plaid stimuli. Perceptual experiments reveal a corresponding loss of plaid coherence. A simple computational model shows how the altered representation of motion signals in early cortex can derail integration in MT. Our results suggest that the effects of adaptation cascade through the visual system, derailing the downstream representation of distinct stimulus attributes.
Sensory systems do not work in isolation; instead, they show interactions that are specifically uncovered during sensory loss. To identify and characterize these interactions, we investigated whether visual deprivation leads to functional enhancement in primary auditory cortex (A1). We compared sound-evoked responses of A1 neurons in visually deprived animals to those from normally reared animals. Here, we show that visual deprivation leads to improved frequency selectivity as well as increased frequency and intensity discrimination performance of A1 neurons. Furthermore, we demonstrate invitro that in adults visual deprivation strengthens thalamocortical (TC) synapses in A1, but not in primary visual cortex (V1). Because deafening potentiated TC synapses in V1, but not A1, crossmodal TC potentiation seems to be a general property of adult cortex. Our results suggest that adults retain the capability for crossmodal changes whereas such capability is absent within a sensory modality. Thus, multimodal training paradigms might be beneficial in sensory-processing disorders.
The action potential activity of single cortical neurons can evoke measurable sensory effects, but it is not known how spiking parameters and neuronal subtypes affect the evoked sensations. Here, we examined the effects of spike train irregularity, spike frequency, and spike number on the detectability of single-neuron stimulation in rat somatosensory cortex. For regular-spiking, putative excitatory neurons, detectability increased with spike train irregularity and decreasing spike frequencies but was not affected by spike number. Stimulation of single, fast-spiking, putative inhibitory neurons led to a larger sensory effect compared to regular-spiking neurons, and the effect size depended only on spike irregularity. An ideal-observer analysis suggests that, under our experimental conditions, rats were using integration windows of a few hundred milliseconds or more. Our data imply that the behaving animal is sensitive to single neurons' spikes and even to their temporal patterning.
Oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs) can repair demyelinated lesions by maturing into myelin-producing oligodendrocytes. However, the OPC potential to differentiate can be prevented by inhibitory signals present in the pathological lesion environment. Identification of these signals is essential to promote OPC differentiation and lesion repair. We identified an endogenous inhibitor of remyelination, Endothelin-1 (ET-1), which is highly expressed in reactive astrocytes of demyelinated lesions. Using both gain- and loss-of-function approaches, we demonstrate that ET-1 drastically reduces the rate of remyelination. We also discovered that ET-1 acts mechanistically by promoting Notch activation in OPCs during remyelination through induction of Jagged1 expression in reactive astrocytes. Pharmacological inhibition of ET signaling prevented Notch activation in demyelinated lesions and accelerated remyelination. These findings reveal that ET-1 is anegative regulator of OPC differentiation and remyelination and is potentially a therapeutic target to promote lesion repair in demyelinated tissue.
Abnormal GABAergic interneuron density, and imbalance of excitatory versus inhibitory tone, is thought to result in epilepsy, neurodevelopmental disorders, and psychiatric disease. Recent studies indicate that interneuron cortical density is determined primarily by the size of the precursor pool inthe embryonic telencephalon. However, factors essential for regulating interneuron allocation from telencephalic multipotent precursors are poorly understood. Here we report that Olig1 represses production of GABAergic interneurons throughout the mouse brain. Olig1 deletion in mutant mice results in ectopic expression and upregulation of Dlx1/2 genes in the ventral medial ganglionic eminences and adjacent regions of the septum, resulting in an 30% increase in adult cortical interneuron numbers. We show that Olig1 directly represses theDlx1/2 I12b intergenic enhancer and that Dlx1/2 functions genetically downstream of Olig1. These findings establish Olig1 as an essential repressor ofDlx1/2 and interneuron production in developing mammalian brain.
The RNA-binding protein TDP-43 regulates RNA metabolism at multiple levels, including transcription, RNA splicing, and mRNA stability. TDP-43 is amajor component of the cytoplasmic inclusions characteristic of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and some types of frontotemporal lobar degeneration. The importance of TDP-43 in disease is underscored by the fact that dominant missense mutations are sufficient to cause disease, although the role of TDP-43 in pathogenesis is unknown. Here we show that TDP-43 forms cytoplasmic mRNP granules thatundergo bidirectional, microtubule-dependent transport in neurons invitro and invivo and facilitate delivery of target mRNA to distal neuronal compartments. TDP-43 mutations impair this mRNA transport function invivo and invitro, including in stem cell-derived motor neurons from ALS patients bearing any one of three different TDP-43 ALS-causing mutations. Thus, TDP-43 mutations that cause ALS lead to partial loss of a novel cytoplasmic function of TDP-43.
In this issue of Neuron, Han etal. (2014) develop powerful methods to visualize phagocytosis of Drosophila peripheral sensory neuron dendrites. Remarkably, epidermal cells rather than professional phagocytes are the primary mediators of debris clearance, using both familiar and new molecular players.
Human ventrolateral frontal cortex (vlFC) is identified with cognitive processes such as language and cognitive flexibility. The relationship between it and the vlFC of other primates has therefore been the subject of particular speculation. We used a combination of structural and functional neuroimaging methods toidentify key components of human vlFC. We compared how vlFC areas interacted with other brain areas in 25 humans and 25 macaques using the same methods. We identified a core set of 11 vlFC components that interacted in similar ways with similar distributed circuits in both species and, in addition, one distinctively human component in ventrolateral frontal pole. Fundamental differences in interactions with posterior auditory association areas in the two species were also present-these were ubiquitous throughout posterior human vlFC but channeled todifferent frontal regions in monkeys. Finally, there were some differences in interregional interactions within vlFC in the two species.
The ability of injured axons to regenerate declines with age, yet the mechanisms that regulate axon regeneration in response to age are not known. Here we show that axon regeneration in aging C.elegans motor neurons is inhibited by the conserved insulin/IGF1 receptor DAF-2. DAF-2's function in regeneration is mediated by intrinsic neuronal activity of the forkhead transcription factor DAF-16/FOXO. DAF-16 regulates regeneration independently of lifespan, indicating that neuronal aging is an intrinsic, neuron-specific, and genetically regulated process. In addition, we found that DAF-18/PTEN inhibits regeneration independently of age and FOXO signaling via the TOR pathway. Finally, DLK-1, a conserved regulator of regeneration, is downregulated by insulin/IGF1 signaling, bound by DAF-16 in neurons, and required for both DAF-16- and DAF-18-mediated regeneration. Together, our data establish that insulin signaling specifically inhibits regeneration in aging adult neurons and that this mechanism is independent of PTEN and TOR.
Animals track fluctuating stimuli over multiple timescales during natural olfactory behaviors. Here, wedefine mechanisms underlying these computations in Caenorhabditis elegans. By characterizing neuronal calcium responses to rapidly fluctuating odor sequences, we show that sensory neurons reliably track stimulus fluctuations relevant to behavior. AWC olfactory neurons respond to multiple odors with subsecond precision required for chemotaxis, whereas ASH nociceptive neurons integrate noxious cues over several seconds to reach a threshold for avoidance behavior. Each neuron's response to fluctuating stimuli is largely linear and can be described by a biphasic temporal filter and dynamical model. A calcium channel mutation alters temporal filtering and avoidance behaviors initiated by ASH on similar timescales. A sensory G-alpha protein mutation affects temporal filtering in AWC and alters steering behavior in a way that supports an active sensing model for chemotaxis. Thus, temporal features of sensory neurons can be propagated across circuits to specify behavioral dynamics.
The organization of synaptic connectivity within a neuronal circuit is a prime determinant of circuit function. We performed a comprehensive fine-scale circuit mapping of hippocampal regions (CA3-CA1) using the newly developed synapse labeling method, mGRASP. This mapping revealed spatially nonuniform and clustered synaptic connectivity patterns. Furthermore, synaptic clustering was enhanced between groups of neurons that shared a similar developmental/migration time window, suggesting a mechanism for establishing the spatial structure of synaptic connectivity. Such connectivity patterns are thought to effectively engage active dendritic processing and storage mechanisms, thereby potentially enhancing neuronal feature selectivity.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized pathologically by an abundance of extracellular neuritic plaques composed primarily of the 42-amino acid amyloid  peptide variant (A42). In the majority of familial AD (FAD) cases, e.g., those harboring mutations in presenilin 1 (PS1), there is a relative increase in the levels of A42 compared to the levels of A40. We previously reported the characterization of a series of aminothiazole-bridged aromates termed aryl aminothiazole -secretase modulators or AGSMs [Kounnas, M. Z., et al. (2010) Neuron 67, 769-780] and showed their potential for use in the treatment of FAD [Wagner, S. L., et al. (2012) Arch. Neurol. 69, 1255-1258]. Here we describe a series of GSMs with physicochemical properties improved compared to those of AGSMs. Specific heterocycle replacements of the phenyl rings in AGSMs provided potent molecules with improved aqueous solubilities. A number of these soluble -secretase modulators (SGSMs) potently lowered A42 levels without inhibiting proteolysis of Notch or causing accumulation of amyloid precursor protein carboxy-terminal fragments, even at concentrations approximately 1000-fold greater than their IC50 values for reducing A42 levels. The effects of one potent SGSM on A peptide production were verified by matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry, showing enhanced production of a number of carboxy-truncated A species. This SGSM also inhibited A42 peptide production in a highly purified reconstituted -secretase in vitro assay system and retained the ability to modulate -secretase-mediated proteolysis in a stably transfected cell culture model overexpressing a human PS1 mutation validating the potential for use in FAD.


Circulating PCSK9 destines low-density lipoprotein receptor for degradation in lysosomes, resulting in increased LDL cholesterol. Accordingly, it is an attractive drug target for hypercholesterolemia, and results from clinical trials are promising. While the physiological role of PCSK9 in cholesterol metabolism is well described, its complex mechanism of action remains poorly understood, although it is known to depend on intracellular trafficking. We here identify sortilin, encoded by the hypercholesterolemia-risk gene SORT1, as a high-affinity sorting receptor for PCSK9. Sortilin colocalizes with PCSK9 in the trans-Golgi network and facilitates its secretion from primary hepatocytes. Accordingly, sortilin-deficient mice display decreased levels of circulating PCSK9, while sortilin overexpression in the liver confers increased plasma PCSK9. Furthermore, circulating PCSK9 and sortilin were positively correlated in a human cohort of healthy individuals, suggesting that sortilin is involved in PCSK9 secretion in humans. Taken together, our findings establish sortilin as a critical regulator of PCSK9 activity.
Leptin secreted by adipocytes acts on the brain to reduce food intake by regulating neuronal activity in the mediobasal hypothalamus (MBH). Obesity is associated with resistance to high circulating leptin levels. Here, we demonstrate that peripherally administered leptin activates its receptor (LepR) in median eminence tanycytes followed by MBH neurons, a process requiring tanycytic ERK signaling and the passage of leptin through the cerebrospinal fluid. In mice lacking the signal-transducing LepRb isoform or with diet-induced obesity, leptin taken up by tanycytes accumulates in the median eminence and fails to reach the MBH. Triggering ERK signaling in tanycytes with EGF reestablishes leptin transport, elicits MBH neuron activation and energy expenditure in obese animals, and accelerates the restoration of leptin sensitivity upon the return to a normal-fat diet. ERK-dependent leptin transport by tanycytes could thus play a critical role in the pathophysiology of leptin resistance, and holds therapeutic potential for treating obesity.
Fasting has been practiced for millennia, but, only recently, studies have shed light on its role in adaptive cellular responses that reduce oxidative damage and inflammation, optimize energy metabolism, and bolster cellular protection. In lower eukaryotes, chronic fasting extends longevity, in part, by reprogramming metabolic and stress resistance pathways. In rodents intermittent or periodic fasting protects against diabetes, cancers, heart disease, and neurodegeneration, while in humans it helps reduce obesity, hypertension, asthma, and rheumatoid arthritis. Thus, fasting has the potential to delay aging and help prevent and treat diseases while minimizing the side effects caused by chronic dietary interventions.







Many of the long-term effects of cocaine on the brain's reward circuitry have been shown to be mediated by alterations in gene expression. Several chromatin modifications, including histone acetylation and methylation, have been implicated in this regulation, but the effect of other histone modifications remains poorly understood. Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 (PARP-1), a ubiquitous and abundant nuclear protein, catalyzes the synthesis of a negatively charged polymer called poly(ADP-ribose) or PAR on histones and other substrate proteins and forms transcriptional regulatory complexes with several other chromatin proteins. Here, we identify an essential role for PARP-1 in cocaine-induced molecular, neural, and behavioral plasticity. Repeated cocaine administration, including self-administration, increased global levels of PARP-1 and its mark PAR in mouse nucleus accumbens (NAc), a key brain reward region. Using PARP-1 inhibitors and viral-mediated gene transfer, we established that PARP-1 induction in NAc mediates enhanced behavioral responses to cocaine, including increased self-administration of the drug. Using chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing, we demonstrated a global, genome-wide enrichment of PARP-1 in NAc of cocaine-exposed mice and identified several PARP-1 target genes that could contribute to the lasting effects of cocaine. Specifically, we identified sidekick-1--important for synaptic connections during development--as a critical PARP-1 target gene involved in cocaine's behavioral effects as well as in its ability to induce dendritic spines on NAc neurons. These findings establish the involvement of PARP-1 and PARylation in the long-term actions of cocaine.
Inner hair cells (IHCs) are the primary transducer for sound encoding in the cochlea. In contrast to the graded receptor potential of adult IHCs, immature hair cells fire spontaneous calcium action potentials during the first postnatal week. This spiking activity has been proposed to shape the tonotopic map along the ascending auditory pathway. Using perforated patch-clamp recordings, we show that developing IHCs fire spontaneous bursts of action potentials and that this pattern is indistinguishable along the basoapical gradient of the developing cochlea. In both apical and basal IHCs, the spiking behavior undergoes developmental changes, where the bursts of action potential tend to occur at a regular time interval and have a similar length toward the end of the first postnatal week. Although disruption of purinergic signaling does not interfere with the action potential firing pattern, pharmacological ablation of the 910 nicotinic receptor elicits an increase in the discharge rate. We therefore suggest that in addition to carrying place information to the ascending auditory nuclei, the IHCs firing pattern controlled by the 910 receptor conveys a temporal signature of the cochlear development.

Individual changes in dopamine-related genes influence prefrontal activity during cognitive-affective processes; however, the extent to which common genetic variations combine to influence prefrontal activity is unknown. We assessed catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) Val108/158Met (rs4680) and dopamine D2 receptor (DRD2) G-T (rs2283265) single nucleotide polymorphisms and functional magnetic resonance imaging during an emotional response inhibition test in 43 healthy adults and 27 people with schizophrenia to determine the extent to which COMT Val108/158Met and DRD2 G-T polymorphisms combine to influence prefrontal response to cognitive-affective challenges. We found an increased number of cognitive-deficit risk alleles in these two dopamine-regulating genes predict reduced prefrontal activation during response inhibition in healthy adults, mimicking schizophrenia-like prefrontal hypoactivity. Our study provides evidence that functionally related genes can combine to produce a disease-like endophenotype.
A new study shows that local field potential oscillations in the human entorhinal cortex and hippocampus are correlated with visual awareness.
Representation of head direction in medial entorhinal cortex shows a gradient of precision, from high directional precision dorsally to low ventrally; this parallels the gradient of spatial scale in place and grid cells, and suggests thatthe brain constructs spatial maps of varying resolution, perhaps to serve different requirements.
The relationship between the firing of single cells and local field potentials (LFPs) has received increasing attention, with studies in animals [1-11] and humans [12-14]. Recordings in the human medial temporal lobe (MTL) have demonstrated the existence of neurons with selective and invariant responses [15], with a relatively late but precise response onset around 300 ms after stimulus presentation [16-18] and firing only upon conscious recognition of the stimulus [19]. This represents a much later onset than expected from direct projections from inferotemporal cortex [16, 18]. The neural mechanisms underlying this onset remain unclear. To address this issue, we performed a joint analysis of single-cell and LFP responses during a visual recognition task. Single-neuron responses were preceded by a global LFP deflection in the theta range. In addition, there was a local and stimulus-specific increase in the single-trial gamma power. These LFP responses correlated with conscious recognition. The timing of the neurons' firing was phase locked to these LFP responses. We propose that whereas the gamma phase locking reflects the activation of local networks encoding particular recognized stimuli, the theta phase locking reflects a global activation that provides a temporal window for processing consciously perceived stimuli in the MTL.
Reprogramming of a differentiated cell back to a naive pluripotent identity is thought to occur by several independent mechanisms. Two such mechanisms include NANOG and activated STAT3 (pSTAT3), known master regulators of naive pluripotency acquisition [1-5]. Here, we investigated the relationship between NANOG and pSTAT3 during the establishment and maintenance of naive pluripotency. Surprisingly, we found that NANOG enhances LIF signal transduction, resulting in elevated pSTAT3. This is mediated, at least in part, by suppression of the expression of the LIF/STAT3 negative regulator SOCS3. We also discovered NANOG to be limiting for the expression of KLF4, a canonical &quot;Yamanaka&quot; reprogramming factor [6] and key pSTAT3 target [2, 7, 8]. KLF4 expression resulted from the codependent and synergistic action of NANOG and pSTAT3 in embryonic stem cells and during initiation of reprogramming. Additionally, within 48hr, the combined actions of NANOG and pSTAT3 in a reprogramming context resulted in reactivation of genes associated with naive pluripotency. Importantly, we show that NANOG can be bypassed during reprogramming by exogenous provision of its downstream effectors, namely pSTAT3 elevation and KLF4 expression. In conclusion, we propose that mechanisms of reprogramming are linked, rather than independent, and are centered on a small number of genes, including NANOG.


An intriguing question in neuroscience concerns how somatosensory events on the skin are represented in the human brain. Since Head and Holmes' [1] neuropsychological dissociation between localizing touch on the skin and localizing body parts in external space, touch is considered to operate in a variety of spatial reference frames [2]. At least two representations of space are in competition during orienting to touch: a somatotopic one, reflecting the organization of the somatosensory cortex (S1) [3], and a more abstract, external reference frame that factors postural changes in relation to body parts and/or external space [4,5]. Previous transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) studies suggest that the posterior parietal cortex (PPC) plays a key role in supporting representations as well as orienting attention in an external reference frame [4, 6]. Here, we capitalized on the TMS entrainment approach [7, 8], targeting the intraparietal sulcus (IPS). We found that frequency-specific (10Hz) tuning of the PPC induced spatially specific enhancement of tactile detection that was expressed in an external reference frame. This finding establishes a tight causal link between a concrete form of brain activity (10Hz oscillation) and a specific type of spatial representation, revealing a fundamental property of how the parietal cortex encodes information.


Working memory (WM) is a core cognitive process fundamental to human behavior, yet the mechanisms underlying it remain highly controversial. Here we provide a new framework for understanding retrieval of information from WM, conceptualizing it as a decision based on the quality of internal evidence. Recent findings have demonstrated that precision of WM decreases with memory load. If WM retrieval uses a decision process that depends on memory quality, systematic changes in response time distribution should occur as a function of WM precision. We asked participants to view sample arrays and, after a delay, report the direction of change in location or orientation of a probe. As WM precision deteriorated with increasing memory load, retrieval time increased systematically. Crucially, the shape of reaction time distributions was consistent with a linear accumulator decision process. Varying either task relevance of items or maintenance duration influenced memory precision, with corresponding shifts in retrieval time. These results provide strong support for a decision-making account of WM retrieval based on noisy storage of items. Furthermore, they show that encoding, maintenance, and retrieval in WM need not be considered as separate processes, but may instead be conceptually unified as operations on the same noise-limited, neural representation.
A great challenge of systems neuroscience is to understand the computations that underlie perceptual constancies, the ability to represent behaviorally relevant stimulus properties as constant even when irrelevant stimulus properties vary. As signals proceed through the visual system, neural states become more selective for properties of the environment, and more invariant to irrelevant features of the retinal images. Here, we describe a method for determining the computations that perform these transformations optimally, and apply it to the specific computational task of estimating a powerful depth cue: binocular disparity. We simultaneously determine the optimal receptive field population for encoding natural stereo images of locally planar surfaces and the optimal nonlinear units for decoding the population responses into estimates of disparity. The optimal processing predicts well-established properties of neurons in cortex. Estimation performance parallels important aspects of human performance. Thus, by analyzing the photoreceptor responses to natural images, we provide a normative account of the neurophysiology and psychophysics of absolute disparity processing. Critically, the optimal processing rules are not arbitrarily chosen to match the properties of neurophysiological processing, nor are they fit to match behavioral performance. Rather, they are dictated by the task-relevant statistical properties of complex natural stimuli. Our approach reveals how selective invariant tuning-especially for properties not trivially available in the retinal images-could be implemented in neural systems to maximize performance in particular tasks.


Although ion channels are increasingly being discovered in cancer cells in vitro and in vivo, and shown to contribute to different aspects and stages of the cancer process, much less is known about the mechanisms controlling their expression. Here, we focus on voltage-gated Na(+) channels (VGSCs) which are upregulated in many types of carcinomas where their activity potentiates cell behaviours integral to the metastatic cascade. Regulation of VGSCs occurs at a hierarchy of levels from transcription to post-translation. Importantly, mainstream cancer mechanisms, especially hormones and growth factors, play a significant role in the regulation. On the whole, in major hormone-sensitive cancers, such as breast and prostate cancer, there is a negative association between genomic steroid hormone sensitivity and functional VGSC expression. Activity-dependent regulation by positive feedback has been demonstrated in strongly metastatic cells whereby the VGSC is self-sustaining, with its activity promoting further functional channel expression. Such auto-regulation is unlike normal cells in which activity-dependent regulation occurs mostly via negative feedback. Throughout, we highlight the possible clinical implications of functional VGSC expression and regulation in cancer.









The demand for functional imaging in clinical medicine is comprehensive. Although the gold standard for the functional imaging of human bones in clinical settings is still radionuclide-based imaging modalities, nonionizing noninvasive imaging technology in small animals has greatly advanced in recent decades, especially the diffuse optical imaging to which Britton Chance made tremendous contributions. The evolution of imaging probes, instruments, and computation has facilitated exploration in the complicated biomedical research field by allowing longitudinal observation of molecular events in live cells and animals. These research-imaging tools are being used for clinical applications in various specialties, such as oncology, neuroscience, and dermatology. The Bone, a deeply located mineralized tissue, presents a challenge for noninvasive functional imaging in humans. Using nanoparticles (NP) with multiple favorable properties as bioimaging probes has provided orthopedics an opportunity to benefit from these noninvasive bone-imaging techniques. This review highlights the historical evolution of radionuclide-based imaging, computed tomography, positron emission tomography, and magnetic resonance imaging, diffuse optics-enabled in vivo technologies, vibrational spectroscopic imaging, and a greater potential for using NPs for biomedical imaging.
The design of drug delivery systems that can deliver multiple drugs to the posterior segment of the eye is a challenging task in retinal disease treatments. We report a polymeric device for multi-drug transscleral delivery at independently controlled release rates. The device comprises a microfabricated reservoir, controlled-release cover and three different fluorescent formulations, which were made of photopolymeized tri(ethyleneglycol)dimethacrylate (TEGDM) and poly(ethyleneglycol)dimethacrylate (PEGDM). The release rate of each fluorescent is controlled by varying the PEGDM/TEGDM ratio in its formulation and the cover. The release kinetics appeared to be related to the swelling ratio of the PEGDM/TEGDM polymers. When the devices were implanted onto rat sclerae, fluorescence was observable in the ocular tissues during 4 weeks' implantation and distributed locally around the implantation site. Our polymeric system, which can administer multiple compounds with distinct kinetics, provides prolonged action and less invasive transscleral administration, and is expected to provide new tools for the treatment of posterior eye diseases with new therapeutic modalities.
One important complication of diabetes mellitus is chronic, non-healing diabetic foot ulcers (DFUs). This study aims to develop and use dressings based on chitosan derivatives for the sustained delivery of neurotensin (NT), a neuropeptide that acts as an inflammatory modulator in wound healing. Three different derivatives, namely N-carboxymethyl chitosan, 5-methyl pyrrolidinone chitosan (MPC) and N-succinyl chitosan, are presented as potential biomaterials for wound healing applications. Our results show that MPC has the best fluid handling capacity and delivery profile, also being non-toxic to Raw 264.7 and HaCaT cells. NT-loaded and non-loaded MPC dressings were applied to control/diabetic wounds to evaluate their in vitro/in vivo performance. The results show that the former induced more rapid healing (50% wound area reduction) in the early phases of wound healing in diabetic mice. A NT-loaded MPC foam also reduced expression of the inflammatory cytokine TNF- (P&lt;0.001) and decreased the amount of inflammatory infiltrate on day 3. On day 10 MMP-9 was reduced in diabetic skin (P&lt;0.001), significantly increasing fibroblast migration and collagen (COL1A1, COL1A2 and COL3A1) expression and deposition. These results suggest that MPC-based dressings may work as an effective support for sustained NT release to reduce DFUs.
Sortilin is a type I membrane glycoprotein belonging to the vacuolar protein sorting 10 protein (Vps10p) family of sorting receptors and is most abundantly expressed in the central nervous system. Sortilin has emerged as a key player in the regulation of neuronal viability and has been implicated as a possible therapeutic target in a range of disorders. Here, the identification of AF40431, the first reported small-molecule ligand of sortilin, is reported. Crystals of the sortilin-AF40431 complex were obtained by co-crystallization and the structure of the complex was solved to 2.7 resolution. AF40431 is bound in the neurotensin-binding site of sortilin, with the leucine moiety of AF40431 mimicking the binding mode of the C-terminal leucine of neurotensin and the 4-methylumbelliferone moiety of AF40431 forming -stacking with a phenylalanine.
Tau-tubulin kinase 1 (TTBK1) is a dual-specificity (serine/threonine and tyrosine) kinase belonging to the casein kinase 1 superfamily. TTBK1 is a neuron-specific kinase that regulates tau phosphorylation. Hyperphosphorylation of tau is implicated in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Two kinase-domain constructs of TTBK1 were expressed in a baculovirus-infected insect-cell system and purified. The purified TTBK1 kinase-domain proteins were crystallized using the hanging-drop vapor-diffusion method. X-ray diffraction data were collected and the structure of TTBK1 was determined by molecular replacement both as an apo structure and in complex with a kinase inhibitor.
To propose a simplified tool to recognize subjects with a moderate risk to develop type 2 diabetes mellitus (Type 2 DM): this method would take into account only variables from metabolic syndrome definitions which are cheaply assessable. A total of 3,003 employees without diabetes in Italy who attended one annual health examination between 2009 and 2012 were enrolled in this cross-sectional study. A questionnaire was administered along with the annual health examination to record personal and familiar anamnesis. To identify Type 2 DM-prone individuals, the diabetes predictive model by Stern MP et al. was used. Then a multiple logistic regression model was developed using the predicted probability 20%+ of developing Type 2 DM as the outcome variable and a panel of easily measurable continuous baseline characteristics as explanatory variables (waist circumference, WC; body mass index, BMI; and systolic blood pressure, SBP). The optimism-adjusted area under the curve of the proposed model receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) is 0.90. The effects of the explanatory variables on the presumed Type 2 DM risk are summarized by the following adjusted odds ratio values: 2.65 for SBP (P &lt; 0.001), 2.01 for WC (P = 0.04) and 4.64 for BMI (P &lt; 0.001). The satisfactory ROC of the proposed model suggests the importance of simple assessments in the prognostic information on Type 2 DM risk. Such ease of use may be particularly relevant in populations facing the transition from traditional to industrial food who do not have a sophisticated health service yet.





Retinopathy of prematurity (ROP) is a disease that can cause blindness in very low birthweight infants. The incidence of ROP is closely correlated with the weight and the gestational age at birth. Despite current therapies, ROP continues to be a highly debilitating disease. Our advancing knowledge of the pathogenesis of ROP has encouraged investigations into new antivasculogenic therapies. The purpose of this article is to review the findings on the pathophysiological mechanisms that contribute to the transition between the first and second phases of ROP and to investigate new potential therapies. Oxygen has been well characterized for the key role that it plays in retinal neoangiogenesis. Low or high levels of pO2 regulate the normal or abnormal production of hypoxia-inducible factor 1 and vascular endothelial growth factors (VEGF), which are the predominant regulators of retinal angiogenesis. Although low oxygen saturation appears to reduce the risk of severe ROP when carefully controlled within the first few weeks of life, the optimal level of saturation still remains uncertain. IGF-1 and Epo are fundamentally required during both phases of ROP, as alterations in their protein levels can modulate disease progression. Therefore, rhIGF-1 and rhEpo were tested for their abilities to prevent the loss of vasculature during the first phase of ROP, whereas anti-VEGF drugs were tested during the second phase. At present, previous hypotheses concerning ROP should be amended with new pathogenetic theories. Studies on the role of genetic components, nitric oxide, adenosine, apelin and -adrenergic receptor have revealed new possibilities for the treatment of ROP. The genetic hypothesis that single-nucleotide polymorphisms within the -ARs play an active role in the pathogenesis of ROP suggests the concept of disease prevention using -blockers. In conclusion, all factors that can mediate the progression from the avascular to the proliferative phase might have significant implications for the further understanding and treatment of ROP.
The aim of this study was to investigate the presence of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) alterations and metabolic dysfunctions in patients with presbyacusis, and to discover correlations between presbyacusis and the degree of hearing loss and mitochondrial damage. Seventy patients with presbyacusis were examined, including 40 Egyptian patients and 30 Italian patients. Forty eight normal subjects were included as control group, including 24 Egyptians and 24 Italians. There was no common point mutation, and A1555G, A3243G, A7445G not were detected in any patients or controls. Haplogroup U was significantly common in patients in comparison to controls. Mutation of antioxidant genes (GSTT1, GSTM1) were significantly present in only Italian patients compared to Italian controls.
Rhinitis and rhinosinusitis (with/without polyposis), either allergic or non-allergic, represent a major medical problem. Their associated comorbidities and relationship with family history have so far been poorly investigated. We assessed these aspects in a large population of patients suffering from rhinosinusal diseases. Clinical history, nasal cytology, allergy testing and direct nasal examination were performed in all patients referred for rhinitis/rhinosinusitis. Fibre optic nasal endoscopy, CT scan and nasal challenge were used for diagnosis, when indicated. A total of 455 patients (60.7% male, age range 4-84 years) were studied; 108 (23.7%) had allergic rhinitis, 128 (28.1%) rhinosinusitis with polyposis, 107 (23.5%) non-allergic rhinitis (negative skin test); 112 patients had associated allergic and non-allergic rhinitis, the majority with eosinophilia. There was a significant association between non-allergic rhinitis and family history of nasal polyposis (OR = 4.45; 95%CI = 1.70-11.61; p = 0.0019), whereas this association was no longer present when allergic rhinitis was also included. Asthma was equally frequent in non-allergic and allergic rhinitis, but more frequent in patients with polyposis. Aspirin sensitivity was more frequent in nasal polyposis, independent of the allergic (p = 0.03) or non-allergic (p = 0.01) nature of rhinitis. Nasal polyposis is significantly associated with asthma and positive family history of asthma, partially independent of the allergic aetiology of rhinitis.



An antisaccade is the execution of a saccade to the mirror-symmetrical location (i.e., same amplitude but opposite visual field) of a single and exogenously presented visual target. Such a response requires top-down decoupling of the normally direct spatial relations between stimulus and response and results in increased planning times and directional errors compared to their spatially compatible prosaccade counterparts. Moreover, antisaccades are associated with diffuse changes in cortical and subcortical saccade networks: a finding that has, in part, been attributed to pre-setting the oculomotor system to withhold a stimulus-driven prosaccade. Moreover, recent work has shown that a corollary cost of oculomotor pre-setting is that the planning time for a to-be-completed prosaccade is longer when preceded by an antisaccade (i.e., the unidirectional prosaccade switch-cost). Notably, this result has been attributed to antisaccades imparting a residual inhibition of the oculomotor networks that support the planning of stimulus-driven prosaccades. In the current investigation, we sought to determine if the number of antisaccades preceding a prosaccade increases this residual inhibition and thus influences the magnitude of the unidirectional prosaccade switch-cost. To that end, participants alternated between pro- and antisaccades after every second (i.e., AABB schedule) and every fourth (i.e., AAAABBBB schedule) trial. In addition, participants completed pro- and antisaccades in separate blocks of trials. Results demonstrated that task-switch prosaccades produced longer reaction times than their task-repetition and blocked condition counterparts, whereas antisaccade reaction times did not vary across task-repetition, task-switch and blocked condition trials. Most notably, the magnitude of the unidirectional prosaccade switch-cost was not modulated across the different task-switching schedules. Thus, we propose that the top-down requirements of the antisaccade task do not produce additive inhibition of stimulus-driven saccade networks.
Sighted individuals are less accurate and slower to localize sounds coming from the peripheral space than sounds coming from the frontal space. This specific bias in favour of the frontal auditory space seems reduced in early blind individuals, who are particularly better than sighted individuals at localizing sounds coming from the peripheral space. Currently, it is not clear to what extent this bias in the auditory space is a general phenomenon or if it applies only to spatial processing (i.e. sound localization). In our approach we compared the performance of early blind participants with that of sighted subjects during a frequency discrimination task with sounds originating either from frontal or peripheral locations. Results showed that early blind participants discriminated faster than sighted subjects both peripheral and frontal sounds. In addition, sighted subjects were faster at discriminating frontal sounds than peripheral ones, whereas early blind participants showed equal discrimination speed for frontal and peripheral sounds. We conclude that the spatial bias observed in sighted subjects reflects an unbalance in the spatial distribution of auditory attention resources that is induced by visual experience.


The chronic and systemic administration of rapamycin extends life span in mammals. Rapamycin is a pharmacological inhibitor of mTOR. Metformin also inhibits mTOR signaling but by activating the upstream kinase AMPK. Here we report the effects of chronic and systemic administration of the two mTOR inhibitors, rapamycin and metformin, on adult neural stem cells of the subventricular region and the dendate gyrus of the mouse hippocampus. While rapamycin decreased the number of neural progenitors, metformin-mediated inhibition of mTOR had no such effect. Adult-born neurons are considered important for cognitive and behavioral health, and may contribute to improved health span. Our results demonstrate that distinct approaches of inhibiting mTOR signaling can have significantly different effects on organ function. These results underscore the importance of screening individual mTOR inhibitors on different organs and physiological processes for potential adverse effects that may compromise health span.
We previously reported that moderate calorie restriction (CR) has minimal impact on testicular gene expression in young adult rhesus macaques, and no obvious negative impact on semen quality or plasma testosterone levels. We now extend these findings by examining the influence of CR on various aspects of the reproductive axis of older males, including 24-h circulating testosterone levels, testicular gene expression, and testicular morphology. Young adult and old adult male rhesus macaques were subjected to either 30% CR for 5-7years, or were fed a standard control diet. Analysis of the 24-h plasma testosterone profiles revealed a significant age-associated decline, but no evidence for CR-induced suppression in either the young or old males. Similarly, expression profiling of key genes associated with testosterone biosynthesis and Leydig cell maintenance showed no significant CR-induced changes in either the young or old animals. The only evidence for CR-associated negative effects on the testis was detected in the old animals at the histological level; when old CR animals were compared with their age-matched controls, there was a modest decrease in seminiferous tubule diameter and epithelium height, with a concomitant increase in the number of depleted germ cell lines. Reassuringly, data from this study and our previous study suggest that moderate CR does not negatively impact 24-h plasma testosterone profiles or testicular gene expression. Although there appear to be some minor CR-induced effects on testicular morphology in old animals, it is unclear if these would significantly compromise fertility.
Human sirtuins are seven proteins with deacetylase activity that are emerging as key modulators of basic physiological functions. Some evidence links SIRT3 to longevity in mammals. This study aimed to investigate whether variants within SIRT3 gene were associated to human longevity. We analyzed 549 genomic DNA collected during the prospective study &quot;Treviso Longeva,&quot; including elderly over 70 years of age from the municipality of Treviso, a small city in the northeast of Italy. We genotyped SIRT3 rs3825075, rs4980329, and rs11555236 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) by real-time polymerase chain reaction allelic discrimination assay. A cross-sectional analysis performed by comparing people over and under 85 years of age did not evidence association among the SIRT3 SNPs and longevity. However, when we performed a longitudinal analysis considering mortality as a dependent variable, we observed an association of SIRT3 rs11555236 and rs4980329 with longevity in the whole population (p values corrected for potential confounders = 0.04 and 0.03, respectively). After stratification according to gender, the same SNPs were associated to female longevity only (p values corrected for potential confounders = 0.03 and 0.02, respectively). Finally, as rs11555236 was reported to be in linkage disequilibrium with a putative functional enhancer within the SIRT3 gene, we assessed whether rs11555236 genotypes correlated with a different level of SIRT3 protein in peripheral blood mononuclear cells. We found an increased level of SIRT3 in subjects homozygous for the (T) allele. We suggest that SIRT3 genetic variability might be relevant for the modulation of human longevity in the Italian population.
Moderate alcohol consumption (one to two drinks per day) has been associated with better cognitive function and lower risk of developing dementia in the elderly. In light of alcohol's well-known neurotoxic properties, more evidence from well-controlled population-based studies is required. The objective of this study was to examine whether self-reported alcohol intake at age 70 is linked to cognitive function (assessed by trail making tests (TMTs) A and B, which are measures of attention, mental speed, and flexibility) in a population-based cohort consisting of 652 cognitively healthy elderly men. Linear regression models were used to assess both cross-sectional (i.e., age 70) and prospective (i.e., age 77) associations between alcohol intake and cognitive function. The analyses were adjusted for education, body mass index, energy intake, self-reported physical activity, smoking, a history of hypertension or diabetes, apolipoprotein E 4 status, and cholesterol levels at the age of 70. Baseline data were obtained from 1990 to 1996. Self-reported alcohol intake (mean 6.97.1g/day) was associated with better performance on TMT-B at ages 70 and 77 (=-0.87, p&lt;0.001). In contrast, alcohol intake was not predictive of the difference in performance on these tests between ages 70 and 77. Despite cross-sectional associations with performance in a test of executive functioning, moderate intake of alcohol was not linked to differences in cognitive performance between ages 70 and 77 in the present study. Thus, our findings do not support the view that daily moderate alcohol consumption is a recommendable strategy to slow cognitive aging in elderly populations.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by pathological deposits of -amyloid (A) in senile plaques, intracellular neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) comprising hyperphosphorylated aggregated tau, synaptic dysfunction and neuronal death. Substantial evidence indicates that disrupted neuronal calcium homeostasis is an early event in AD that could mediate synaptic dysfunction and neuronal toxicity. Sodium calcium exchangers (NCXs) play important roles in regulating intracellular calcium, and accumulating data suggests that reduced NCX function, following aberrant proteolytic cleavage of these exchangers, may contribute to neurodegeneration. Here, we show that elevated calpain, but not caspase-3, activity is a prominent feature of AD brain. In addition, we observe increased calpain-mediated cleavage of NCX3, but not a related family member NCX1, in AD brain relative to unaffected tissue and that from other neurodegenerative conditions. Moreover, the extent of NCX3 proteolysis correlated significantly with amounts of A1-42. We also show that exposure of primary cortical neurons to oligomeric A1-42 results in calpain-dependent cleavage of NCX3, and we demonstrate that loss of NCX3 function is associated with A toxicity. Our findings suggest that A mediates calpain cleavage of NCX3 in AD brain and therefore that reduced NCX3 activity could contribute to the sustained increases in intraneuronal calcium concentrations that are associated with synaptic and neuronal dysfunction in AD.
A number of gender differences have been documented in the incidence and symptomatology of the second most common age-related neurodegenerative disorder, idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD). Overall, previous reports suggest a less frequent incidence and a more benign phenotype in women mainly in Western populations, which is thought to be mediated by estrogens in particular in early stages of the disease. Not only motor symptoms seem to underlie gender effects, but also non-motor symptoms such as psychiatric and cognitive impairments, which can often precede motor manifestation. However, reliable results for gender differences in PD in particular of cognitive function and emotion processing, having a major impact on quality of life, are lacking. Moreover, studies investigating gender effects in PD in these areas have revealed highly heterogeneous results. The present review summarizes findings of currently available studies on gender effects on neuropsychological tests covering major cognitive domains, emotion processing as well as quality of life in patients with PD. Overall, the occurrence of cognitive impairment in PD seems to be associated with male gender, though inconsistent results were shown in cognitive screening tests. Regarding emotion recognition, men with PD were found to be less accurate than women with PD at identifying fearful expressions, whereas vice versa results appeared in healthy subjects. Lower quality of life and greater disability were reported by women compared to men with PD, which corresponds with the results in healthy subjects. Several disease-specific mediators as well as the question of a general gender and age-related effect as observed in healthy individuals are discussed. Increased knowledge on possible gender effects in PD would provide an enhanced insight in underlying pathological mechanisms, and has potential implications for the diagnosis and treatment of PD.

Prenatal ethanol exposure modifies postnatal affinity to the drug, increasing the probability of ethanol use and abuse. The present study tested developing rats (5-day-old) in a novel operant technique to assess the degree of ethanol self-administration as a result of prenatal exposure to low ethanol doses during late gestation. On a single occasion during each of gestational days 17-20, pregnant rats were intragastrically administered ethanol 1g/kg, or water (vehicle). On postnatal day 5, pups were tested on a novel operant conditioning procedure in which they learned to touch a sensor to obtain 0.1% saccharin, 3% ethanol, or 5% ethanol. Immediately after a 15-min training session, a 6-min extinction session was given in which operant behavior had no consequence. Pups were positioned on a smooth surface and had access to a touch-sensitive sensor. Physical contact with the sensor activated an infusion pump, which served to deliver an intraoral solution as reinforcement (Paired group). A Yoked control animal evaluated at the same time received the reinforcer when its corresponding Paired pup touched the sensor. Operant behavior to gain access to 3% ethanol was facilitated by prenatal exposure to ethanol during late gestation. In contrast, operant learning reflecting ethanol reinforcement did not occur in control animals prenatally exposed to water only. Similarly, saccharin reinforcement was not affected by prenatal ethanol exposure. These results suggest that in 5-day-old rats, prenatal exposure to a low ethanol dose facilitates operant learning reinforced by intraoral administration of a low-concentration ethanol solution. This emphasizes the importance of intrauterine experiences with ethanol in later susceptibility to drug reinforcement. The present operant conditioning technique represents an alternative tool to assess self-administration and seeking behavior during early stages of development.




Traumatic brain injury (TBI), either as an isolated injury or in conjunction with other injuries, is an increasingly common event. An estimated 1.7 million injuries occur within the USA each year and 10 million people are affected annually worldwide. Indeed, nearly one third (30.5%) of all injury-related deaths in the USA are associated with TBI, which will soon outpace many common diseases as the major cause of death and disability. Associated with a high morbidity and mortality and no specific therapeutic treatment, TBI has become a pressing public health and medical problem. The highest incidence of TBI occurs in young adults (15-24 years age) and in the elderly (75 years of age). Older individuals are particularly vulnerable to these types of injury, often associated with falls, and have shown increased mortality and worse functional outcome after lower initial injury severity. In addition, a new and growing form of TBI, blast injury, associated with the detonation of improvised explosive devices in the war theaters of Iraq and Afghanistan, are inflicting a wave of unique casualties of immediate impact to both military personnel and civilians, for which long-term consequences remain unknown and may potentially be catastrophic. The neuropathology underpinning head injury is becoming increasingly better understood. Depending on severity, TBI induces immediate neuropathologic effects that, for the mildest form, may be transient; however, with increasing severity, these injuries cause cumulative neural damage and degeneration. Even with mild TBI, which represents the majority of cases, a broad spectrum of neurologic deficits, including cognitive impairments, can manifest that may significantly influence quality of life. Further, TBI can act as a conduit to longer term neurodegenerative disorders. Prior studies of glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) and long-acting GLP-1 receptor agonists have demonstrated neurotrophic/neuroprotective activities across a broad spectrum of cellular and animal models of chronic neurodegenerative (Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases) and acute cerebrovascular (stroke) disorders. In view of the mechanisms underpinning these disorders as well as TBI, we review the literature and recent studies assessing GLP-1 receptor agonists as a potential treatment strategy for mild to moderate TBI.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an age-related neurodegenerative disease leading over the course of decades to the most common form of dementia. Many of its pathologic features and cognitive deficits may be due in part to brain insulin resistance recently demonstrated in the insulin receptorinsulin receptor substrate-1 (IRS-1) signaling pathway. The proximal cause of such resistance in AD dementia and amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) appears to be serine inhibition of IRS-1, a phenomenon likely due to microglial release of inflammatory cytokines triggered by oligomeric A. Studies on animal models of AD and on human brain tissue from MCI cases at high risk of AD dementia have shown that brain insulin resistance and many other pathologic features and symptoms of AD may be greatly reduced or even reversed by treatment with FDA-approved glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) analogs such as liraglutide (Victoza). These findings call attention to the need for further basic, translational, and clinical studies on GLP-1 analogs as promising AD therapeutics.


Human brain imaging has seen many advances in the quantification of white matter invivo. For example, these advances have revealed the association between white matter damage and vascular disease as well as their impact on risk for and development of dementia and depression in an aging population. Current neuroimaging methods to quantify white matter damage provide a foundation for understanding such age-related neuropathology; however, these methods are not as adept at determining the underlying microstructural abnormalities signaling at risk tissue or driving white matter damage in the aging brain. This review will begin with a brief overview of the use of diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) in understanding white matter alterations in aging before focusing in more detail on select advances in both diffusion-based methods and multi-component relaxometry techniques for imaging white matter microstructural integrity within myelin sheaths and the axons they encase. Although DTI greatly extended the field of white matter interrogation, these more recent technological advances will add clarity to the underlying microstructural mechanisms that contribute to white matter damage. More specifically, the methods highlighted in this review may prove more sensitive (and specific) for determining the contribution of myelin versus axonal integrity to the aging of white matter in brain.


Blood-retinal barrier (BRB) breakdown and related vascular changes are implicated in several ocular diseases. The molecules and mechanisms regulating BRB integrity and pathophysiology are not fully elucidated. Caveolin-1 (Cav-1) ablation results in loss of caveolae and microvascular pathologies, but the role of Cav-1 in the retina is largely unknown. We examined BRB integrity and vasculature in Cav-1 knockout mice and found a significant increase in BRB permeability, compared with wild-type controls, with branch veins being frequent sites of breakdown. Vascular hyperpermeability occurred without apparent alteration in junctional proteins. Such hyperpermeability was not rescued by inhibiting eNOS activity. Veins of Cav-1 knockout retinas exhibited additional pathological features, including i) eNOS-independent enlargement, ii) altered expression of mural cell markers (eg, down-regulation of NG2 and up-regulation of SMA), and iii) dramatic alterations in mural cell phenotype near the optic nerve head. We observed a significant NO-dependent increase in retinal artery diameter in Cav-1 knockout mice, suggesting that Cav-1 plays a role in autoregulation of resistance vessels in the retina. These findings implicate Cav-1 in maintaining BRB integrity in retinal vasculature and suggest a previously undefined role in the retinal venous system and associated mural cells. Our results are relevant to clinically significant retinal disorders with vascular pathologies, including diabetic retinopathy, uveoretinitis, and primary open-angle glaucoma.
Remyelination occurs in multiple sclerosis (MS) lesions but is generally considered to be insufficient. One of the major challenges in MS research is to understand the causes of remyelination failure and to identify therapeutic targets that promote remyelination. Activation of pancreatic endoplasmic reticulum kinase (PERK) signaling in response to endoplasmic reticulum stress modulates cell viability and function under stressful conditions. There is evidence that PERK is activated in remyelinating oligodendrocytes in demyelinated lesions in both MS and its animal model, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). In this study, we sought to determine the role of PERK signaling in remyelinating oligodendrocytes in MS and EAE using transgenic mice that allow temporally controlled activation of PERK signaling specifically in oligodendrocytes. We demonstrated that persistent PERK activation was not deleterious to myelinating oligodendrocytes in young, developing mice or to remyelinating oligodendrocytes in cuprizone-induced demyelinated lesions. We found that enhancing PERK activation, specifically in (re)myelinating oligodendrocytes, protected the cells and myelin against the detrimental effects of interferon-, a key proinflammatory cytokine in MS and EAE. More important, we showed that enhancing PERK activation in remyelinating oligodendrocytes at the recovery stage of EAE promoted cell survival and remyelination in EAE demyelinated lesions. Thus, our data provide direct evidence that PERK activation cell-autonomously enhances the survival and preserves function of remyelinating oligodendrocytes in immune-mediated demyelinating diseases.
Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) is an incretin hormone released from intestinal L-cells in response to food entering into the gastrointestinal tract. GLP-1-based pharmaceuticals improve blood glucose regulation and may hold promise for obesity treatment, as GLP-1 drugs reduce food intake and body weight in humans and animals. In an effort to improve GLP-1 pharmacotherapies, we focused our attention on macronutrients that, when present in the gastrointestinal tract, may enhance GLP-1 secretion and improve glycemic regulation and food intake suppression when combined with systemic administration of sitagliptin, a pharmacological inhibitor of DPP-IV (enzyme responsible for GLP-1 degradation). In particular, previous data suggest that specific macronutrient constituents found in dairy foods may act as potent secretagogues for GLP-1 and therefore may potentially serve as an adjunct dietary therapy in combination with sitagliptin. To directly test this hypothesis, rats received intraperitoneal injections of sitagliptin (6 mg/kg) or saline vehicle followed by intraduodenal infusions of either milk protein concentrate (MPC; 80/20% casein/whey; 4 kcal), soy protein (nondairy control infusate; 4 kcal), or 0.9% NaCl. Food intake was assessed 30 min postinfusion. In separate studies, regulation of blood glucose was examined via a 2-h oral glucose tolerance test (2 g/kg) following identical sitagliptin treatment and intraduodenal nutrient infusions. Collectively, results show that intraduodenal MPC, but not soy protein, significantly enhances both the food intake suppression and improved control of blood glucose produced by sitagliptin. These data support the hypothesis that dietary intake of dairy protein may be beneficial as an adjunct behavioral therapy to enhance the glycemic and food intake suppressive effects of GLP-1-based pharmacotherapies.

In hyperhomocysteinemic patients, after reaction with homocysteine-albumin mixed disulfides (HSS-ALB), mesna (MSH) forms the mixed disulfide with Hcy (HSSM) which can be removed by renal clearance, thus reducing the plasma concentration of total homocysteine (tHcy). In order to assess the HSS-ALB dethiolation via thiol exchange reactions, the distribution of redox species of cysteine, cysteinylglycine, homocysteine and glutathione was investigated in the plasma of healthy subjects: (i) in vitro, after addition of 35 M reduced homocysteine (HSH) to plasma for 72 h, followed by MSH addition (at the concentration range 10-600 M) for 25 min; (ii) in vivo, after oral treatment with methionine (methionine, 200 mg/kg body weight, observation time 2-6 h). In both experiments the distribution of redox species, but not the total amount of each thiol, was modified by thiol exchange reactions of albumin and cystine, with changes thermodynamically related to the pKa values of thiols in the corresponding mixed disulfides. MSH provoked a dose-response reversal of the redox state of aged plasma, and the thiol action was confirmed by in vivo experiments. Since it was observed that the dimesna production could be detrimental for the in vivo optimization of HSSM formation, we assume that the best plasma tHcy lowering can be obtained at MSH doses producing the minimum dimesna concentration in each individual.
Ecto-5'-nucleotidase (eN) is a membrane-bound enzyme that hydrolyzes extracellular nucleoside-5'-monophosphates yielding the respective nucleoside and phosphate. Increased levels of eN expression have been observed in many cancer cells. By increasing extracellular adenosine concentrations, they contribute to their proliferative, angiogenic, metastatic, and immunosuppressive effects. Therefore, eN is of considerable interest as a novel drug target for the treatment of cancer as well as of inflammatory diseases. In this study, we developed, optimized, and applied a highly sensitive radiometric assay using [H]adenosine-5'-monophosphate (AMP) as a substrate. The reaction product [H]adenosine was separated from [H]AMP by precipitation of the latter with lanthanum chloride and subsequent filtration through glass fiber filters. Conditions were optimized to reproducibly collect the [H]adenosine-containing filtrate used for quantitative determination. Validation of the assay yielded a mean Z' factor of 0.73, which demonstrates its suitability for high-throughput screening. The new assay shows a limit of detection that is at least 30-fold lower than those of common colorimetric methods (e.g., optimized malachite green assay and capillary electrophoresis-based assay procedures), and it is also superior to a recently developed luciferase-based assay.
We have used the histochemical and immunohistochemical staining methods and maps of gene expression to analyze the structure of the inferior olive of the C57BL mouse. As in other mammals, the inferior olive of the C57BL mouse contains three major nuclei, the medial nucleus, the principal nucleus, and the dorsal nucleus. The medial nucleus can be divided into a rostral medial nucleus and a more complex caudal part, which is formed by subnuclei C, B, A, the cap of Kooy, and the beta subnucleus. The principal nucleus includes the major principal nucleus and the arcuate subnucleus. Most of the inferior olive neurons are small to medium size, the smallest of which are found in the arcuate subnucleus. Calbindin and the vesicular glutamate transporter 2 gene are expressed in nearly all inferior olive neurons, but acetylcholinesterase, glutamate decarboxylase 1 gene, cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript protein prepropeptide gene, galanin gene, and calretinin are selectively expressed within different subnuclei. These findings are consistent with a pattern of extensive functional differentiation among the neuron groups of the inferior olive.




The present study sought to assess the potential application of avian models with different developmental modes to studies on cognition and neuroscience. Six altricial Bengalese finches (Lonchura striata var. domestica), and eight precocial blue-breasted quails (Coturnix chinensis) were presented with color discrimination tasks to compare their respective faculties for learning and memory retention within the context of the two developmental modes. Tasks consisted of presenting birds with discriminative cues in the form of colored feeder lids, and birds were considered to have learned a task when 80% of their attempts at selecting the correctly colored lid in two consecutive blocks of 10 trials were successful. All of the finches successfully performed the required experimental tasks, whereas only half of the quails were able to execute the same tasks. In the learning test, finches required significantly fewer trials than quails to learn the task (finches: 13.59.14 trials, quails: 45.84.35 trials, P&lt;0.05), with finches scoring significantly more correct responses than quails (finches: 98.34.08%, quails: 85.05.77% at the peak of the learning curve). In the memory retention tests, which were conducted 45 days after the learning test, finches retained the ability to discriminate between colors correctly (95.04.47%), whereas quails did not retain any memory of the experimental procedure and so could not be tested. These results suggested that altricial and precocial birds both possess the faculty for learning and retaining discrimination-type tasks, but that altricial birds perform better than precocial birds in both faculties. The present findings imply that developmental mode is an important consideration for assessing the suitability of bird species for particular experiments.



How does general anesthesia (GA) work? Anesthetics are pharmacological agents that target specific central nervous system receptors. Once they bind to their brain receptors, anesthetics modulate remote brain areas and end up interfering with global neuronal networks, leading to a controlled and reversible loss of consciousness. This remarkable manipulation of consciousness allows millions of people every year to undergo surgery safely most of the time. However, despite all the progress that has been made, we still lack a clear and comprehensive insight into the specific neurophysiological mechanisms of GA, from the molecular level to the global brain propagation. During the last decade, the exponential progress in neuroscience and neuro-imaging led to a significant step in the understanding of the neural correlates of consciousness, with direct consequences for clinical anesthesia. Far from shutting down all brain activity, anesthetics lead to a shift in the brain state to a distinct, highly specific and complex state, which is being increasingly characterized by modern neuro-imaging techniques. There are several clinical consequences and challenges that are arising from the current efforts to dissect GA mechanisms: the improvement of anesthetic depth monitoring, the characterization and avoidance of intra-operative awareness and post-anesthesia cognitive disorders, and the development of future generations of anesthetics.
Six clinical studies of chronic electrical modulation of deep brain circuits published between 1968 and 2010 have reported effects in 55 vegetative or minimally conscious patients. The rationale stimulation was to activate the cortex through the reticular-thalamic complex, comprising the tegmental ascending reticular activating system and its thalamic targets. The most frequent intended target was the central intralaminar zone and adjacent nuclei. Hassler et al. also proposed to modulate the pallidum as part of the arousal and wakefulness system. Stimulation frequency varied from 8Hz to 250Hz. Most patients improved, although in a limited way. Schiff et al. found correlations between central thalamus stimulation and arousal and conscious behaviours. Other treatments that have offered some clinical benefit include drugs, repetitive magnetic transcranial stimulation, median nerve stimulation, stimulation of dorsal column of the upper cervical spinal cord, and stimulation of the fronto-parietal cortex. No one treatment has emerged as a gold standard for practice, which is why clinical trials are still on-going. Further clinical studies are needed to decipher the altered dynamics of neuronal network circuits in patients suffering from severe disorders of consciousness as a step towards novel therapeutic strategies.





Diagnosis of paediatric tumours of the central nervous system is often difficult because WHO classification criteria are mainly defined for adults tumours and do not always apply to their paediatric counterparts. These tumours are rare (400 cases/year among more than 50 pathological subtypes per year in France). Pathological diagnosis may be a challenge for a general pathologist with a too low number of paediatric cases in his recruitment. Hence, a reference group of paediatric neuropathologists was formed (GENOP) on the behalf of the comit &quot;Tumeurs Crbrales&quot; de la Socit Franaise de lutte contre les Cancers de l'Enfant. This network is supported by the Institut National du Cancer (INCa). GENOP aim is to structure a centralised review of paediatric central nervous system tumours in order to harmonise neuropathological diagnosis at the national level and enhance patients care. Cases assessed during the last 3 years led GENOP to better identify tumours subtypes for which there is a diagnostic challenge. A set of immunohistochemical or molecular specialised techniques was developed, leading to an increased diagnostic accuracy. It allowed a better distinction between diffuse and circumscribed glioma, a better recognition of glioneuronal differentiation and a better subtyping of embryonal tumours such as medulloblastomas. Inter-observer agreement varied according to the tumour subtypes.

Neuronal cell death happens as a result of the normal physiological process that occurs during development, or as part of the pathological process that occurs during disease. Death-associated protein kinase (DAPK) is an intracellular protein that mediates cell death by its serine/threonine kinase activity, and transmits apoptotic cell death signals in various cells, including neurons. DAPK is elevated in injured neurons in acute models of injury such as ischemia and seizure. The absence of DAPK has been shown to protect neurons from a wide variety of acute toxic insults. Moreover, DAPK also regulates neuronal cell death during central nervous system development. Neurons are initially overproduced in the developing nervous system, following which approximately one-half of the original cell population dies. This &quot;naturally-occurring&quot; or &quot;programmed&quot; cell death is essential for the construction of the developing nervous system. In this review, we focus on the role of DAPK in neuronal cell death after neuronal injury. The participation of DAPK in developmental neuronal death is also explained.


Cirsium japonicum (CJ) has been shown to possess antidepressant-like properties. In the present study, we sought to identify which constituent of CJ might be responsible for its antidepressant effects and determine probable mechanism of action. The ethanol extract of CJ was administered to mice then behavioral changes were evaluated in the forced-swimming test (FST) and open-field test (OFT). In addition, its effects on norepinephrine (NE) reuptake and intracellular chloride (Cl(-)) flux were determined, in vitro. The effects of CJ's major constituents (linarin, pectolinarin, chlorogenic acid, luteolin) were also evaluated. CJ showed antidepressant-like effect by significantly reducing immobile behavior of mice in the FST, without increasing locomotor activity in the OFT. CJ had no effect on monoamine (NE) uptake, but it significantly promoted Cl(-) ion influx in human neuroblastoma cells. This CJ-induced Cl(-) influx was significantly blocked by co-administration of the competitive GABAA receptor antagonist, bicuculline. Among the major constituents of the CJ extract, only luteolin produced similar antidepressant-like effect, in vivo, and Cl(-) ion influx, in vitro. Altogether, the present results suggest that the antidepressant-like effect of CJ was most probably induced by its constituent luteolin, mediated through potentiation of the GABAA receptor-Cl(-) ion channel complex.


In a prior study, we observed that female-typical characteristics in elementary school girls' drawings were correlated with a feminized digit ratio (2D:4D), a marker for prenatal androgen exposure. However, this observation was limited to older girls, suggesting that social factors mediate the relationship between 2D:4D and drawing. To examine the hypothesis that the influence of prenatal androgen on girls' drawing is mediated by an effect of early androgens on sex-typical behavior, we examined 2D:4D, free drawings, and scores on the Recalled Childhood Gender Identity (RCGI) Questionnaire in a population of college students. Characteristics of participants' free drawings were assessed and those that showed sex differences were compared with 2D:4D and RCGI scores. Men had smaller 2D:4D ratios than women, used fewer total colors, used fewer pinks, purples, and blues, and had higher gender-typical scores on the RCGI. Women's drawings were more likely to contain flowers and animals and men's drawings were more likely to represent sports. Within-sex RCGI and 2D:4D scores were not significantly correlated. Significant within-sex relationships between 2D:4D and RCGI and drawing behavior were observed but the effects appeared to be independent; the hypothesis that gender-typical childhood behavior mediates the effect of prenatal androgen on drawing characteristics was not supported.
Testosterone (T) and other androgens are incorporated into an increasingly wide array of human sexuality research, but there are a number of issues that can affect or confound research outcomes. This review addresses various methodological issues relevant to research design in human studies with T; unaddressed, these issues may introduce unwanted noise, error, or conceptual barriers to interpreting results. Topics covered are (1) social and demographic factors (gender and sex; sexual orientations and sexual diversity; social/familial connections and processes; social location variables), (2) biological rhythms (diurnal variation; seasonality; menstrual cycles; aging and menopause), (3) sample collection, handling, and storage (saliva vs. blood; sialogogues, saliva, and tubes; sampling frequency, timing, and context; shipping samples), (4) health, medical issues, and the body (hormonal contraceptives; medications and nicotine; health conditions and stress; body composition, weight, and exercise), and (5) incorporating multiple hormones. Detailing a comprehensive set of important issues and relevant empirical evidence, this review provides a starting point for best practices in human sexuality research with T and other androgens that may be especially useful for those new to hormone research.
High-dosage alcohol intoxication (i.e., binge drinking in humans) is an increasingly prevalent problem. Despite the well-known long-term consequences, the acute effects of high-dosage alcohol intoxication on cognitive control processes have not been investigated with respect to neurophysiological changes in humans. We provide insights into the effects of high-dosage ethanol intoxication on action control functions in humans on the basis of neurophysiological (EEG) data. Action control processes were examined in a stop-change task. Based on a detailed analysis of behavioral and electrophysiological data, we demonstrate a specific modulation of action cascading processes. Opposed to commonly held views, high-dosage ethanol intoxication (0.9-1.13 ) exerts highly specific effects on cognitive subprocesses mediating action control. If action control processes are performed in succession, intoxicated and non-intoxicated participants perform equally well. However, action control processes become compromised during high-dosage ethanol intoxication, when different response options require processing resources in parallel. Under high-dose ethanol intoxication, subjects are not able to prioritize different response options. We could demonstrate that the effects were of high effect sizes ( (2) = 0.702) and rely more on response selection deficits than on deficits in attentional processing. The changes in response selection processes are mediated via the anterior cingulate cortex. The specificity of the observed effects may be due to a differential involvement of dopaminergic and GABAergic processes in action control and attentional selection processes.



Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) paradigms designed to study word generation traditionally utilize a computerized paced version of the verbal fluency task (VFT) comprising 'blocks' of word generation and a baseline word repetition task. The utility of the above paced VFT paradigm in differentiating neuropsychiatric patients from healthy subjects has not been systematically examined. We administered a computerized, paced version of the semantic VFT comprising word generation and word repetition blocks to 24 schizophrenia and 24 matched healthy subjects, both before and during fMRI acquisition. The performance of patients with schizophrenia was significantly inferior to that of healthy control subjects in both the 'pre-scan' and 'intra-scan' sessions of the computerized paced semantic VFT. Specifically, schizophrenia patients generated significantly fewer total responses (VFTR) as well as correct responses (VFCR), but a larger number of 'no response' trials. However, there were no significant group differences in perseverative responses in the pre-scan session or 'intra-scan' sessions. The above computerized task has been reported by us previously to generate a behavioral performance index with hemodynamic correlates (John et al., 2011). Thus, our findings support the use of computerized paced VFT comprising word generation and word repetition blocks in both clinical and research settings.

Shifting visual focus on the basis of the perceived gaze direction of another person is one form of joint attention. In the present study, we investigated whether this socially relevant form of orienting is reflexive and whether it is influenced by age. Green and Woldorff (Cognition 122:96-101, 2012) argued that rapid cueing effects (i.e., faster responses to validly than to invalidly cued targets) were limited to conditions in which a cue overlapped in time with a target. They attributed slower responses following invalid cues to the time needed to resolve the incongruent spatial information provided by the concurrently presented cue and target. In the present study, we examined the orienting responses of young (18-31 years), young-old (60-74 years), and old-old (75-91 years) adults following uninformative central gaze cues that overlapped in time with the target (Exp. 1) or that were removed prior to target presentation (Exp. 2). When the cue and target overlapped, all three groups localized validly cued targets more quickly than invalidly cued targets, and validity effects emerged earlier for the two younger groups (at 100 ms post-cue-onset) than for the old-old group (at 300 ms post-cue-onset). With a short-duration cue (Exp. 2), validity effects developed rapidly (by 100 ms) for all three groups, suggesting that validity effects resulted from reflexive orienting based on the gaze cue information rather than from cue-target conflict. Thus, although old-old adults may be slow to disengage from persistent gaze cues, attention continues to be reflexively guided by gaze cues late in life.


Social Emotional NeuroScience Endocrinology Theatre is a novel intervention program aimed at improving reciprocal social interaction in youth with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) using behavioral strategies and theatrical techniques in a peer-mediated model. Previous research using a 3-month model showed improvement in face perception, social interaction, and reductions in stress. The current study assessed a 2-week summer camp model. Typically developing peers were trained and paired with ASD youth (8-17 years). Social perception and interaction skills were measured before and after treatment using neuropsychological and parental measures. Behavioral coding by reliable, independent raters was conducted within the treatment context (theatre) and outside the setting (playground). Salivary cortisol levels to assess physiological arousal were measured across contexts (home, theatre, and playground). A pretest-posttest design for within-group comparisons was used, and prespecified pairwise comparisons were achieved using a nonparametric Wilcoxon signed-rank test. Significant differences were observed in face processing, social awareness, and social cognition (P &lt; 0.05). Duration of interaction with familiar peers increased significantly over the course of treatment (P &lt; 0.05), while engagement with novel peers outside the treatment setting remained stable. Cortisol levels rose on the first day of camp compared with home values yet declined by the end of treatment and further reduced during posttreatment play with peers. Results corroborate previous findings that the peer-mediated theatre program contributes to improvement in core social deficits in ASD using a short-term, summer camp treatment model. Future studies will explore treatment length and peer familiarity to optimize and generalize gains.
Previously, we demonstrated that electrical stimulation of the superior ovarian nerve (SON), but not the ovarian nerve plexus (ONP), reduces the secretion rate of estradiol from the ovary via activation of alpha 2-adrenoceptors in rats. The inhibitory effect of SON on estradiol secretion may be due to reduced production of testosterone, a direct precursor of estradiol. Here, we examined the effects of electrical stimulation of the SON and the ONP on ovarian testosterone secretion in rats. On the day of estrous, ovarian venous blood samples were collected intermittently from the ovarian vein. The secretion rate of testosterone from the ovary was calculated from the difference in the testosterone concentration between ovarian venous plasma and systemic arterial blood plasma, and the rate of ovarian venous plasma flow. Stimulation of either the SON or ONP reduced the secretion rate of testosterone from the ovary. The reduction of the testosterone secretion rate by SON stimulation was not influenced by an alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist (yohimbine), but it was abolished by an alpha 1-adrenoceptor antagonist (prazosin). Our results show that ovarian nerves have an inhibitory role in ovarian testosterone secretion, via activation of alpha 1-adrenoceptors, but not alpha 2-adrenoceptors. This, therefore, indicates that the reduction of estradiol secretion by SON stimulation is independent of the reduction of testosterone secretion.
The 21st century has brought renewed energy to the field of neural control of the cardiovascular system with interest in assessing directly the role of sympathetic nerve activity (SNA) in initiating and/or maintaining an elevated level of arterial pressure in animal models of cardiovascular disease and in human subjects. Below is a review of some recent studies that use continuous nerve recordings of SNA to look at the time course of changes in activity as hypertension develops. These studies have advanced our understanding of the role of SNA in hypertension, but they also leave us wanting to know more.
Individuals differ in their preference for, sensitivity to, and physiologic need for, salt. Increasing the dietary intake of salt is considered first line treatment for orthostatic hypotension, orthostatic intolerance, and syncope. Dietary salt intake is also an important contributing cause for hypertension, which is the leading modifiable risk factor for mortality worldwide. Recent research calls into question the assumption that there is one ideal dose of dietary salt appropriate for everyone. Individualized salt recommendations for some patients should take into account orthostatic blood pressure patterns and in the future may also be guided by genetic information. An as yet unanswered question is whether high salt diets helpful in the treatment of orthostatic disorders would, if continued long-term, increase the risk of developing hypertension.
Mitophagy, or the selective clearance of mitochondria by autophagy, plays a key role in mitochondrial quality control. Due to their postmitotic nature and metabolic dependence on mitochondria, either insufficient or unchecked mitophagy is detrimental to neurons. To better understand signals that regulate this process, we treated primary rat cortical neurons with the electron transport chain complex I inhibitor rotenone to elicit mitophagy. The lipidomic profiles of mitochondria from control or injured neurons were analyzed by mass spectrometry, revealing a significant redistribution of cardiolipin (CL) from the inner mitochondrial membrane to the outer mitochondrial surface. Direct liposome-binding studies, computational modeling, and site-directed mutagenesis indicate that microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 (MAP1LC3/LC3), a defining protein of autophagic membranes, binds to CL. Preventing this interaction inhibits rotenone-induced mitochondrial delivery to autophagosomes and lysosomes and attenuates mitochondrial loss as assessed by western blot. The CL-LC3 interaction is also important for mitophagy induced by other stimuli including 6-hydroxydopamine, another chemical model of Parkinson disease. Given that a conserved LC3 phosphorylation site is adjacent to key residues involved in CL binding, signaling pathways could potentially modulate this interaction to fine-tune the mitochondrial recycling response.
Understanding the neurobiological basis underlying individual differences in conditioned stimulus (CS) sensitivity is pertinent, given that excessive conditioned responses to CSs is a key feature of anxiety-related disorders and drug addiction. We have previously shown that behaviour of serotonin transporter knockout (5-HTT(-/-)) rats-mimicking the common 5-HTT promoter polymorphism in humans-is strongly driven by Pavlovian CSs. To investigate whether the knockout rats attribute greater incentive salience to CSs, we tested the 5-HTT(-/-) rats and their wild-type counterparts in the sucrose-reinforced sign-versus goal-tracking task. We also assessed whether motivational properties of the unconditioned stimulus (sucrose pellet) are involved in the individual differences under investigation, by testing the animals in a sucrose-reinforced progressive ratio schedule of reinforcement. We found no genotype differences in sign-versus goal-tracking behavior, despite that progressive ratio responding was increased in 5-HTT(-/-) rats. In conclusion, the high CS sensitivity in 5-HTT(-/-) rats cannot be explained by enhanced incentive salience attribution to the CS as measured by the sign- versus goal-tracking paradigm. Rather, 5-HTT(-/-) rats may be more sensitive to the motivational properties of the unconditioned stimulus.
Both the serotonin and glutamate systems have been implicated in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia, as well as in the mechanism of action of antipsychotic drugs. Psychedelic drugs act through the serotonin 2A receptor (5-HT2AR), and elicit a head-twitch response (HTR) in mice, which directly correlates to 5-HT2AR activation and is absent in 5-HT2AR knockout mice. The precise mechanism of this response remains unclear, but both an intrinsic cortico-cortical pathway and a thalamo-cortical pathway involving glutamate release have been proposed. Here, we used a genetic model of NMDAR hypofunction, the serine racemase knockout (SRKO) mouse, to explore the role of glutamatergic transmission in regulating 5-HT2AR-mediated cellular and behavioral responses. SRKO mice treated with the 5-HT2AR agonist ()-2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodoamphetamine (DOI) showed a clearly diminished HTR and lower induction of c-fos mRNA. These altered functional responses in SRKO mice were not associated with changes in cortical or hippocampal 5-HT levels or in 5-HT2AR and metabotropic glutamate-2 receptor (mGluR2) mRNA and protein expression. Together, these findings suggest that D-serine-dependent NMDAR activity is involved in mediating the cellular and behavioral effects of 5-HT2AR activation.
This study compares the neural substrate of moral decision making processes between Korean and American participants. By comparison with Americans, Korean participants showed increased activity in the right putamen associated with socio-intuitive processes and right superior frontal gyrus associated with cognitive control processes under a moral-personal condition, and in the right postcentral sulcus associated with mental calculation in familiar contexts under a moral-impersonal condition. On the other hand, American participants showed a significantly higher degree of activity in the bilateral anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) associated with conflict resolution under the moral-personal condition, and in the right medial frontal gyrus (MFG) associated with simple cognitive branching in non-familiar contexts under the moral-impersonal condition when a more lenient threshold was applied, than Korean participants. These findings support the ideas of the interactions between the cultural background, education, and brain development, proposed in the field of cultural psychology and educational psychology. The study introduces educational implications relevant to moral psychologists and educators.
Deep hypothermia (cryoanesthesia) is often used as general anesthesia during surgery in neonatal rodents. Neonatal cryoanesthesia has been used recently to generate somatic brain transgenic (SBT) mouse models via intracerebral ventricular injection of rAAV vectors into both non-transgenic mice and numerous transgenic mouse models. Since, the evaluation of cognition is one of the main experimental endpoints in many of these studies, we examined the consequences of brief neonatal cryoanesthesia on the physical development and mnemonic function of adult mice. Two groups of 129FVBF1 pups from reciprocal breeding crosses underwent cryoanesthesia for 6 min (Cryo6) or 12 min (Cryo12), respectively, within the first hours (&lt;12h) of postnatal life. A group of pups separated from the nest and kept in ambient temperature of 33 C for 6 min served as a control. Our results revealed that lowering the temperature of pups to ~8 C (Cryo6) or ~5 C (Cryo12) did not affect their body weight at pre-weaning stage and in the adulthood. The evaluation of cognitive function in adult mice revealed strong and comparable to control spatial reference, and context and tone fear memories of neonatally cryoanesthetized mice. Also, the experimental and control groups had comparable brain weight at the end of the study. Our results demonstrate that neonatal cryoanesthesia, lasting up to 12 min, has no adverse effects on the body weight of mice during development, and on their cognition in the adulthood.
Neuromedin U (NmU) is a widely distributed and multifunctional peptide in the central nervous system and the peripheral tissues. Little is know about the mechanisms of NmU on brain functions. The rodent isoform of the NmU, NmU-23, has been shown to have anxiolytic effects involved in the -adrenergic and cholinergic nervous systems in elevated plus maze test. NmU-23 was tested for antidepressant-like effects in modified forced swimming test (FST) in mice and furthermore, the involvement of the adrenergic, serotonergic, cholinergic, dopaminergic or gaba-ergic receptors in the antidepressant-like effect of NmU-23 was studied in modified mice FST. Mice were pretreated with a non-selective -adrenergic receptor antagonist phenoxybenzamine, an 1/2-adrenergic receptor antagonist, prazosin, an 2-adrenergic receptor antagonist, yohimbine, a -adrenergic receptor antagonist, propranolol, a mixed 5-HT1/5-HT2 serotonergic receptor antagonist, methysergide, a non-selective 5-HT2 serotonergic receptor antagonist, cyproheptadine, nonselective muscarinic acetylcholine receptor antagonist, atropine, D2,D3,D4 dopamine receptor antagonist, haloperidol or -aminobutyric acid subunit A (GABAA) receptor antagonist, bicuculline. NmU-23 showed the antidepressant-like effects by decreasing the immobility time and increasing the climbing and swimming time. Prazosin, haloperidol, and bicuculline prevented the effects of NmU-23 on the climbing and swimming time. Methysergide and cyproheptadine prevented the effects of NmU-23 on the immobility, swimming and climbing time. Atropine prevented the effects of NmU-23 on the climbing time. Phenoxybenzamine, yohimbine and propranolol did not change the effects of NmU-23. The results demonstrated that the antidepressant-like effect of NmU-23 is mediated, at least in part, by an interaction of the 2-adrenergic, 5-HT1-2 serotonergic, D2,D3,D4 dopamine receptor, muscarinic acetylcholine receptors and -aminobutyric acid subunit A (GABAA) receptor in a modified mouse FST.
Functional neuroimaging of social anxiety disorder (SAD) support altered neural activation to threat-provoking stimuli focally in the fear network, while structural differences are distributed over the temporal and frontal cortices as well as limbic structures. Previous neuroimaging studies have investigated the brain at the voxel level using mass-univariate methods which do not enable detection of more complex patterns of activity and structural alterations that may separate SAD from healthy individuals. Support vector machine (SVM) is a supervised machine learning method that capitalizes on brain activation and structural patterns to classify individuals. The aim of this study was to investigate if it is possible to discriminate SAD patients (n=14) from healthy controls (n=12) using SVM based on (1) functional magnetic resonance imaging during fearful face processing and (2) regional gray matter volume. Whole brain and region of interest (fear network) SVM analyses were performed for both modalities. For functional scans, significant classifications were obtained both at whole brain level and when restricting the analysis to the fear network while gray matter SVM analyses correctly classified participants only when using the whole brain search volume. These results support that SAD is characterized by aberrant neural activation to affective stimuli in the fear network, while disorder-related alterations in regional gray matter volume are more diffusely distributed over the whole brain. SVM may thus be useful for identifying imaging biomarkers of SAD.
The transgenic SOD1(G93A) mouse is a model of human amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and recapitulates many of the pathological hallmarks observed in humans, including motor neuron degeneration in the brain and the spinal cord. In mice, neurodegeneration particularly impacts on the facial nuclei in the brainstem. Motor neurons innervating the whisker pad muscles originate in the facial nucleus of the brain stem, with contractions of these muscles giving rise to &quot;whisking&quot; one of the fastest movements performed by mammals. A longitudinal study was conducted on SOD1(G93A) mice and wild-type litter mate controls, comparing: (i) whisker movements using high-speed video recordings and automated whisker tracking, and (ii) facial nucleus degeneration using MRI. Results indicate that while whisking still occurs in SOD1(G93A) mice and is relatively resistant to neurodegeneration, there are significant disruptions to certain whisking behaviours, which correlate with facial nuclei lesions, and may be as a result of specific facial muscle degeneration. We propose that measures of mouse whisker movement could potentially be used in tandem with measures of limb dysfunction as biomarkers of disease onset and progression in ALS mice and offers a novel method for testing the efficacy of novel therapeutic compounds.
Alterations of inhibitory GABAergic neurons are implicated in multiple psychiatric and neurological disorders, including schizophrenia, autism and epilepsy. In particular, interneuron deficits in prefrontal areas, along with presumed decreased inhibition, have been reported in several human patients. The majority of forebrain GABAergic interneurons arise from a single subcortical source before migrating to their final regional destination. Factors that govern the interneuron populations have been identified, demonstrating that a single gene mutation may globally affect forebrain structures or a single area. In particular, mice lacking the urokinase plasminogen activator receptor (Plaur) gene have decreased GABAergic interneurons in frontal and parietal, but not caudal, cortical regions. Plaur assists in the activation of hepatocyte growth factor/scatter factor (HGF/SF), and several of the interneuron deficits are correlated with decreased levels of HGF/SF. In some cortical regions, the interneuron deficit can be remediated by endogenous overexpression of HGF/SF. In this study, we demonstrate decreased parvalbumin-expressing interneurons in the medial frontal cortex, but not in the hippocampus or basal lateral amygdala in the Plaur null mouse. The Plaur null mouse demonstrates impaired medial frontal cortical function in extinction of cued fear conditioning and the inability to form attentional sets. Endogenous HGF/SF overexpression increased the number of PV-expressing cells in medial frontal cortical areas to levels greater than found in wildtype mice, but did not remediate the behavioral deficits. These data suggest that proper medial frontal cortical function is dependent upon optimum levels of inhibition and that a deficit or excess of interneuron numbers impairs normal cognition.
The fmr1 knock out (KO) mouse has been a useful animal model to understand pathology and treatment of FXS, both anatomically and behaviorally. Ultrasonic vocalizations (USVs) are a behavioral tool to assess early life communication deficits in mice. Here, we report on the temporal and spectral features of USVs emitted after maternal separation in wild type (FVB/N) and fmr1 KO pups at postnatal days (P) P4, P7 and P10. The results show changes in the number and duration of calls in fmr1 KO pups and wild type pups were dependent on age and call type. Fmr1 KO pups showed an increased number of USVs at P7 but not at P4 or P10. This increase was specific to Frequency Jump calls. In addition, fmr1 KO mice showed a developmental shift in the temporal distribution of calls, with P10 mice calling in distinct bout patterns. Overall, these findings provide evidence that changes in USV outcomes were specific to certain call types and ages in fmr1 KO mice. Because early postnatal life is a window during which multiple neural systems activate and become established, behavioral measures such as using USVs as a measure of communication, may be useful as a predictor of brain changes and later developmental behavioral changes. Work is needed to better understand the functional outcomes of altered development of USVs and how these changes contribute to later emergence of autistic-like behaviors in animal models of autism.
The outcome of behavioral interactions between organisms can have significant fitness implications. Therefore, it is of great theoretical and practical importance to understand the mechanisms that modify different agonistic behaviors. Changes in central monoamines, such as serotonin (5-HT), contribute to modifying the expression of aggressive encounters in both vertebrates and invertebrates. In several invertebrate groups, neural 5-HT has been linked to heightened aggression and conflict escalation. The male stalk-eyed fly (Teleopsis dalmanni) competes with conspecifics daily over access to resources such as food and mates. Because encounters escalate in a stereotypical manner, stalk-eyed flies provide an excellent model system to study behavioral syndromes. We hypothesized that noninvasive, pharmacological augmentation of brain 5-HT by administration of the precursor, 5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP), would increase stereotypic behavioral escalation and the probability of winning a conflict over food. Size-matched male 5-HTP-treated and untreated flies were placed in a forced-fight paradigm and their aggressive behaviors scored. Individuals with higher brain 5-HT levels had a markedly higher probability of winning the contests, displayed greater levels of high-intensity aggressive behaviors and fewer retreats. Pretreatment with 5-HTP did not significantly alter octopamine or tyramine, suggesting that central 5-HT may modulate aggression in these organisms and play a role in determining reproductive success and resource attainment.
Children with fetal alcohol spectrum disorder (FASD) or prenatal alcohol exposure (PAE) frequently exhibit impairment on tasks measuring inhibition. The objective of this study was to determine if a performance-based relationship exists between psychometric tests and eye movement tasks in children with FASD. Participants for this dataset were aged 5-17 years and included those diagnosed with an FASD (n=72), those with PAE but no clinical FASD diagnosis (n=21), and typically developing controls (n=139). Participants completed a neurobehavioral test battery, which included the NEPSY-II subtests of auditory attention, response set, and inhibition. Each participant completed a series of saccadic eye movement tasks, which included the antisaccade and memory-guided tasks. Both the FASD and the PAE groups performed worse than controls on the subtest measures of attention and inhibition. Compared with controls, the FASD group made more errors on the antisaccade and memory-guided tasks. Among the combined FASD/PAE group, inhibition and switching errors were negatively correlated with direction errors on the antisaccade task but not on the memory-guided task. There were no significant correlations in the control group. These data suggests that response inhibition deficits in children with FASD/PAE are associated with difficulty controlling saccadic eye movements which may point to overlapping brain regions damaged by prenatal alcohol exposure. The results of this study demonstrate that eye movement control tasks directly relate to outcome measures obtained with psychometric tests that are used during FASD diagnosis, and may therefore help with early identification of children who would benefit from a multidisciplinary diagnostic assessment.
Epilepsy is a relatively common and chronic neurological condition, affecting 1-2% of the population. However, understanding of the underlying pathophysiology remains incomplete. To identify potential factors in the early environment that may increase the risk for experiencing seizures, maternal stress and environmental enrichment (EE) were utilized. Pregnant Long-Evans rats were exposed to an ethologically relevant predator stress (PS) and maternal glucocorticoid (GC) response was assessed across the exposure period. At birth, litters were divided into standard care (SC) and EE groups until postnatal day 14 (PD14) when a model of febrile convulsions was used to determine seizure susceptibility of the various groups. Pup brains were then processed for immunohistochemical detection of FosB from several structures in the limbic system as a measure of neuronal activation. Maternal PS-induced GC levels were elevated early in the exposure period, and pup birth weights, in both sexes, were lower in litters from dams exposed to PS. Seizure scores at PD14 were highly individualized and litter dependent, suggesting a dam-dependent and variable effect of controlled pre- and postnatal environmental factors. Further, analysis of FosB-immunoreactive (-ir) patterns revealed an activity dependent distribution, reflecting individual seizure susceptibility. EE had a varying effect on FosB-ir that was dependent on region. In the hippocampus FosB-ir levels were greater in the EE groups while extra-hippocampal regions showed lower levels of FosB-ir. Our results support the concept that pre- and postnatal environmental influences affect fetal programming and neurodevelopment of processes that could underlie seizure susceptibility, but that the magnitude of these effects appears to be dam- or litter-dependent.
Memory impairment during aging is believed to be a consequence of decline in neuronal function and increase in neurodegeneration. Accumulation of oxidative damage and reduction of antioxidant defense system play a key role in organismal aging and functional senescence. In our study, we examined the age-related memory impairment (AMI) in relation to oxidative stress using Drosophila model. We observed a decline in cognitive function in old flies with respect to both short-lived and consolidated forms of olfactory memory. Light and electron microscopy of mushroom bodies revealed a reduction in the number of synapses and discernible architectural defects in mitochondria. An increase in neuronal apoptosis in Kenyon cells was also evident in aged flies. Biochemical investigations revealed a comparable age-associated decrease in the activity of antioxidant enzymes such as catalase and superoxide dismutase as well as the GSH level, accompanied by an increase in the level of lipid peroxidation and generation of reactive oxygen species in the brain. There was no significant difference in the activity level of AChE and BChE enzymes between different age groups while immunohistochemical studies showed a significant decrease in the level of ChAT in 50-day-old flies. RNAi-mediated silencing of cat and sod1 genes caused severe memory impairment in 15-day-old flies, whereas, over-expression of cat gene could partially rescue the memory loss in the old flies. We demonstrated that a Drosophila long-lived strain, possessing enhanced activity of antioxidant enzymes and higher rate of resistance to oxidative stress, shows lower extent of AMI compared to normal lifespan strain. Present study provides evidence for involvement of oxidative stress in AMI in Drosophila.
Bentley et al. argue for the social scientific contextualization of &quot;big data&quot; by proposing a four-quadrant model. We suggest extensions of the east-west (i.e., socially motivated versus independently motivated) decision-making dimension in light of findings from social psychology and neuroscience. We outline a method that leverages linguistic tools to connect insights across fields that address the individuals underlying big-data media streams.
We discuss ambiguities of the two main dimensions of the map proposed by Bentley and colleagues that relate to the degree of self-reflection the observed agents have upon their behavior. This self-reflection is a variant of the &quot;looping effect&quot; which denotes that, in social research, the product of investigation influences the object of investigation. We outline how this can be understood as a dimension of &quot;height&quot; in the map of Bentley et al.
The unconscious-thought effect occurs when distraction improves complex decision making. Recent studies suggest that this effect is more likely to occur with low- than high-demanding distraction tasks. We discuss implications of these findings for Newell &amp; Shanks' (N&amp;S's) claim that evidence is lacking for the intervention of unconscious processes in complex decision making.
To what extent do we know our own minds when making decisions? Variants of this question have preoccupied researchers in a wide range of domains, from mainstream experimental psychology (cognition, perception, social behavior) to cognitive neuroscience and behavioral economics. A pervasive view places a heavy explanatory burden on an intelligent cognitive unconscious, with many theories assigning causally effective roles to unconscious influences. This article presents a novel framework for evaluating these claims and reviews evidence from three major bodies of research in which unconscious factors have been studied: multiple-cue judgment, deliberation without attention, and decisions under uncertainty. Studies of priming (subliminal and primes-to-behavior) and the role of awareness in movement and perception (e.g., timing of willed actions, blindsight) are also given brief consideration. The review highlights that inadequate procedures for assessing awareness, failures to consider artifactual explanations of &quot;landmark&quot; results, and a tendency to uncritically accept conclusions that fit with our intuitions have all contributed to unconscious influences being ascribed inflated and erroneous explanatory power in theories of decision making. The review concludes by recommending that future research should focus on tasks in which participants' attention is diverted away from the experimenter's hypothesis, rather than the highly reflective tasks that are currently often employed.
Monoaminergic neurotransmitters regulate different components of sexual behaviors, but how the different monoaminergic cell groups selectively regulate these behaviors is not well understood. We examined the potential contribution of these different cell groups in the control of different aspects of sexual behaviors in male and female quail. We used double-label immunohistochemistry, labeling the protein product of the immediate early gene, Fos, along with tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) or tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH), markers for catecholaminergic or indolaminergic cells, respectively. Rhythmic Cloacal Sphincter Movements (RCSM) were recorded as a measure of male appetitive sexual behavior. Consummatory sexual behaviors were evaluated based on the species-typical copulation sequence. Enhanced Fos expression in the medial preoptic nucleus and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis was observed in association with both physical and visual contact to the opposite sex for males, but not for females. Fos induction associated with physical contact was observed in the ventral tegmental area and anterior periaqueductal gray in both sexes. In males only, the number of Fos-immunoreactive (ir) cells increased in the visual contact condition in these 2 dopaminergic cell groups, however no significant effect was observed for double-labeled TH-Fos-ir cells. In addition, consummatory but not appetitive sexual behavior increased Fos expression in TPH-ir cells in the raphe pallidus of males. This increase following physical but not visual contact agrees with the notion that activation of the serotoninergic system is implicated in the development of sexual satiation but not activated by simply viewing a female, in contrast to the dopaminergic system.
We recently developed a procedure to study fear incubation, in which rats given 100 tone-shock pairings over 10 days show low fear 2 days after conditioned fear training and high fear after 30 days. Notably, fear 2 days after 10 sessions of fear conditioning is lower than fear seen 2 days after a single session of fear conditioning, suggesting that fear is suppressed. Here, we investigate the potential role of CB1 receptor activation by endocannabinoids in this fear suppression. We subjected rats to 10 days of fear conditioning and then administered systemic injections of the CB1 receptor antagonist SR141716 before a conditioned fear test was conducted 2 days later under extinction conditions. A second test was conducted without any injections on the following day (3 days after training) to examine retention of fear extinction. SR141716 injections did not increase fear expression 2 days after extended fear conditioning or affect within-session extinction; however, it impaired retention of between-session fear extinction in the day 3 test. These data suggest that CB1 receptor activation does not suppress fear soon after extended fear conditioning in the fear incubation task. The data also add to the existing literature on the role of CB1 receptors in extinction of conditioned fear.
In a synthetic approach to studying navigational abilities in desert ants, we review recent work comparing ants living in different visual ecologies. Those living in a visually rich habitat strewn with tussocks, bushes, and trees are compared to those living in visually barren salt pans, as exemplified by the Central Australian Melophorus bagoti and the North African Cataglyphis fortis, respectively. In bare habitats the navigator must rely primarily on path integration, keeping track of the distance and direction in which it has travelled, while in visually rich habitats the navigator can rely more on guidance by the visual panorama. Consistent with these expectations, C. fortis performs better than M. bagoti on various measures of precision at path integration. In contrast, M. bagoti learned a visually based associative task better than C. fortis, the latter generally failing at the task. Both these ants, however, exhibit a similar pattern of systematic search as a 'back up' strategy when other navigational strategies fail. A newly investigated salt-pan species of Melophorus (as yet unnamed) resembles C. fortis more, and its congener M. bagoti less, in its path integration. The synthetic approach would benefit from comparing more species chosen to address evolutionary questions. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: CO3 2013.
Transcription factor Nrf2 (NF-E2 p45-related factor 2) regulates the cellular redox homoeostasis and cytoprotective responses, allowing adaptation and survival under conditions of stress. The significance of Nrf2in intermediary metabolism is also beginning to be recognized. Thus this transcription factor negatively affects fatty acid synthesis. However, the effect of Nrf2 on fatty acid oxidation is currently unknown. In the present paper, we report that the mitochondrial oxidation of long-chain (palmitic) and short-chain (hexanoic) fatty acids is depressed in the absence of Nrf2 and accelerated when Nrf2 is constitutively active. Addition of fatty acids stimulates respiration in heart and liver mitochondria isolated from wild-type mice. This effect is significantly weaker when Nrf2 is deleted, whereas it is stronger when Nrf2 activity is constitutively high. In the absence of glucose, addition of fatty acids differentially affects the production of ATP in mouse embryonic fibroblasts from wild-type, Nrf2-knockout and Keap1 (Kelch-like ECH-associated protein 1)-knockout mice. In acute tissue slices, the rate of regeneration of FADH2 is reduced when Nrf2 is absent. This metabolic role of Nrf2 on fatty acid oxidation has implications for chronic disease conditions including cancer, metabolic syndrome and neurodegeneration.
Injury to the peripheral or central nervous system can induce changes within the nervous tissues that promote a state of sensitization that may underlie conditions of pathological chronic pain. A key biochemical event in the initiation and maintenance of peripheral and central neuronal sensitization associated with chronic pain is the phosphorylation and subsequent activation of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) and immediate early gene transcription factors, in particular cAMP-response element binding protein (CREB). In this commentary we review the preclinical data that describe anatomical and mechanistic aspects of nociceptive-induced signaling along nociceptive pathways including peripheral cutaneous axons, the dorsal root ganglia, spinal cord dorsal horn and cerebral cortex. In addition to the regional manifestation of nociceptive signaling, investigations have attempted to elucidate the cellular origin of biochemical nociceptive processing in which communication, i.e. cross-talk between neurons and glia is viewed as an essential component of pathogenic pain development. Here, we outline a research strategy by which nociceptive-induced cellular signaling in experimental pain models, specifically MAPK and CREB phosphorylation can be utilized to provide mechanistic insight into drug-target interaction along the nociceptive pathways. We describe a series of studies using nociceptive inflammatory and neuropathic pain models to investigate the effects of known pain therapeutics on nociceptive-induced biochemical signaling and present this as a complementary research strategy for assessing antinociceptive activity useful in the preclinical development of novel pain therapeutics.





We examined the effects of aging and cognitive fatigue on working memory (WM) related brain activation using functional magnetic resonance imaging. Age-related differences were investigated in 13 young and 16 middle-aged male school teachers. Cognitive fatigue was induced by sustained performance on cognitively demanding tasks (compared to a control condition). Results showed a main effect of age on left dorsolateral prefrontal and superior parietal cortex activation during WM encoding; greater activation was evident in middle-aged than young adults regardless of WM load or fatigue condition. An interaction effect was found in the dorsomedial prefrontal cortex (DMPFC); WM load-dependent activation was elevated in middle-aged compared to young in the control condition, but did not differ in the fatigue condition due to a reduction in activation in middle-aged in contrast to an increase in activation in the young group. These findings demonstrate age-related activation differences and differential effects of fatigue on activation in young and middle-aged adults.
We used a synthetic biology approach to produce myotubes from mammalian C2C12 myoblasts in non-differentiation growth conditions using the expression of basic helix-loop-helix transcription factors, MyoD and E12, in various combinations and configurations. Our approach not only recapitulated the basics of muscle development and physiology, as the obtained myotubes showed qualities similar to those seen in striated muscle fibers in vivo, but also allowed for the synthesis of populations of myotubes which assumed distinct morphology, myofibrillar development and Ca(2+) dynamics. This fashioned class of biomaterials is suitable for the building blocks of soft actuators in micro-scale biomimetic robotics. This production line strategy can be embraced in reparative medicine as synthetic human myotubes with predetermined morphological/functional properties could be obtained using this very approach. This methodology can be adopted beyond striated muscle for the engineering of other tissue components/cells whose differentiation is governed by the principles of basic helix-loop-helix transcription factors, as in the case, for example, of neural or immune cell types.
An urgent unmet need exists for early-stage treatment of spinal cord injury (SCI). Currently methylprednisolone is the only therapeutic agent used in clinics, for which the efficacy is controversial and the side effect is well-known. We demonstrated functional restoration of injured spinal cord by self-assembled nanoparticles composed of ferulic acid modified glycol chitosan (FA-GC). Chitosan and ferulic acid are strong neuroprotective agents but their systemic delivery is difficult. Our data has shown a prolonged circulation time of the FA-GC nanoparticles allowing for effective delivery of both chitosan and ferulic acid to the injured site. Furthermore, the nanoparticles were found both in the gray matter and white matter. The in vitro tests demonstrated that nanoparticles protected primary neurons from glutamate-induced excitotoxicity. Using a spinal cord contusion injury model, significant recovery in locomotor function was observed in rats that were intravenously administered nanoparticles at 2 h post injury, as compared to non-improvement by methylprednisolone administration. Histological analysis revealed that FA-GC treatment significantly preserved axons and myelin and also reduced cavity volume, astrogliosis, and inflammatory response at the lesion site. No obvious adverse effects of nanoparticles to other organs were found. The restorative effect of FA-GC presents a promising potential for treating human SCIs.
Cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) results from the accumulation of A proteins primarily within the media and adventitia of small arteries and capillaries of the cortex and leptomeninges. CAA affects a majority of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients and is associated with a rapid decline in cognitive reserve. Unfortunately, there is no pre-mortem diagnosis available for CAA. Furthermore, treatment options are few and relatively ineffective. To combat this issue, we have designed nanovehicles (nanoparticles-IgG4.1) capable of targeting cerebrovascular amyloid (CVA) and serving as early diagnostic and therapeutic agents. These nanovehicles were loaded with Gadolinium (Gd) based (Magnevist()) magnetic resonance imaging contrast agents or single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) agents, such as (125)I. In addition, the nanovehicles carry either anti-inflammatory and anti-amyloidogenic agents such as curcumin or immunosuppressants such as dexamethasone, which were previously shown to reduce cerebrovascular inflammation. Owing to the anti-amyloid antibody (IgG4.1) grafted on the surface, the nanovehicles are capable of specifically targeting CVA deposits. The nanovehicles effectively marginate from the blood flow to the vascular wall as determined by using quartz crystal microbalance with dissipation monitoring (QCM-D) technology. They demonstrate excellent distribution to the brain vasculature and target CVA, thus providing MRI and SPECT contrast specific to the CVA in the brain. In addition, they also display the potential to carry therapeutic agents to reduce cerebrovascular inflammation associated with CAA, which is believed to trigger hemorrhage in CAA patients.
The recent progress in stem cell techniques has broadened the horizon for in vitro disease modeling. For desired in vivo like phenotypes, not only correct cell type specification will be critical, the microenvironmental context will be essential to achieve relevant responses. We demonstrate how a three dimensional (3D) culture of stem cell derived neurons can induce in vivo like responses related to Alzheimer's disease, not recapitulated with conventional 2D cultures. To acquire a neural population of cells we differentiated neurons from neuroepithelial stem cells, derived from induced pluripotent stem cells. p21-activated kinase mediated sensing of A oligomers was only possible in the 3D environment. Further, the 3D phenotype showed clear effects on F-actin associated proteins, connected to the disease processes. We propose that the 3D in vitro model has higher resemblance to the AD pathology than conventional 2D cultures and could be used in further studies of the disease.
Magnetic nanoparticle (MNP) enabled cell visualization with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is currently an intensively studied area of research. In the present study, we have synthesized polyethylene glycolated (PEG) MNPs and validated their suitability as MR cell labeling agents in in vitro and in vivo experiments. The labeling of therapeutic potent mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) with small core and large core MNPs was evaluated. Both MNPs were, in combination with a transfection agent, stably internalized into the MSCs and didn't show an effect on cell metabolism. The labeled cells showed high contrast in MRI phantom studies. For quantification purposes, the MRI contrast generating properties of cells labeled with small core MNPs were compared with large core MNPs and with the commercial contrast agent Endorem. MSCs labeled with the large core MNPs showed the highest contrast generating properties in in vitro phantom studies and in in vivo intracranial stereotactic injection experiments, confirming the size-relaxivity relationship in biological systems. Finally, the distribution of MSCs pre-labeled with large core PEGylated MNPs was visualized non-invasively with MRI in a glioma model.
Bioengineered fiber substrates are increasingly studied as a means to promote regeneration and remodeling in the injured central nervous system (CNS). Previous reports largely focused on the ability of oriented scaffolds to bridge injured regions and direct outgrowth of axonal projections. In the present work, we explored the effects of electrospun microfibers on the migration and physiological properties of brain astroglial cells. Primary rat astrocytes were cultured on either fibronectin-coated poly-L-lactic acid (PLLA) films, fibronectin-coated randomly oriented PLLA electrospun fibers, or fibronectin-coated aligned PLLA electrospun fibers. Aligned PLLA fibers strongly altered astrocytic morphology, orienting cell processes, actin microfilaments, and microtubules along the length of the fibers. On aligned fibers, astrocytes also significantly increased their migration rates in the direction of fiber orientation. We further investigated if fiber topography modifies astrocytic neuroprotective properties, namely glutamate and glutamine transport and metabolism. This was done by quantifying changes in mRNA expression (qRT-PCR) and protein levels (Western blotting) for a battery of relevant biomolecules. Interestingly, we found that cells grown on random and/or aligned fibers increased the expression levels of two glutamate transporters, GLAST and GLT-1, and an important metabolic enzyme, glutamine synthetase, as compared to the fibronectin-coated films. Functional assays revealed increases in glutamate transport rates due to GLT-1 mediated uptake, which was largely determined by the dihydrokainate-sensitive GLT-1. Overall, this study suggests that aligned PLLA fibers can promote directed astrocytic migration, and, of most importance, our in vitro results indicate for the first time that electrospun PLLA fibers can positively modify neuroprotective properties of glial cells by increasing rates of glutamate uptake.

ATP7B is a copper-transporting ATPase that plays a key role in the regulation of copper homeostasis. Mutations in the ATP7B gene are causative for Wilson's disease, and recent reports have suggested that genetic variants are associated with susceptibility to Alzheimer's disease. Unfortunately, it is difficult to profile experimentally novel genetic variants in the ATP7B gene, because the human protein X-ray structure is not yet entirely understood. In order to investigate ATP7B non-synonymous substitutions, we used an in silico amino acid sequence-based approach. Specifically, we analyzed 337 ATP7B non-synonymous substitutions, which included Wilson's disease-causing mutations (DVs) and non Wilson's disease-causing variants (NDVs), with an algorithm that estimated a combined probability (cPdel) of an amino acidic change to be deleterious for the protein function. This approach appeared to reliably indentify the probability of DVs and NDVs to be deleterious and to profile still unknown gene variants. Specifically, after analyzing ATP7B protein domains with the cPdel method, we found results in line with the predicted-modeled domains and some new suggestions. In conclusion, a functional survey of amino acid changes in the ATP7B protein is provided herein, and we suggest that this bioinformatic method can furnish information about novel ATP7B mutations. Furthermore, the same approach can be applied to other uncharacterized proteins.
Herein we describe the synthesis of novel tricyclic analogues issued from the rigidification of the methoxy group of the benzofuranic analogue of melatonin as MT1 and MT2 ligands. Most of the synthesized compounds displayed high binding affinities at MT1 and MT2 receptors subtypes. Compound 6b (MT1, Ki=0.07nM; MT2, Ki=0.08nM) exhibited with the vinyl 6c and allyl 6d the most interesting derivatives of this series. Functional activity of these compounds showed full agonist activity with EC50 in the nanomolar range. Compounds 6a (EC50=0.8nM and Emax=98%) and 6b (EC50=0.2nM and Emax=121%) exhibited good pharmacological profiles.
Substituted quinoline-2,4-dicarboxylates (QDCs) are conformationally-restricted mimics of glutamate that were previously reported to selectively block the glutamate vesicular transporters (VGLUTs). We find that expanding the QDC scaffold to benzoquinoline dicarboxylic acids (BQDC) and naphthoquinoline dicarboxylic acids (NQDCs) improves inhibitory activity with the NQDCs showing IC5070 M. Modeling overlay studies showed that the polycyclic QDCs resembled steroid structures and led to the identification and testing of estrone sulfate, pregnenolone sulfate and pregnanolone sulfate that blocked the uptake of l-Glu by 50%, 70% and 85% of control, respectively. Pregnanolone sulfate was further characterized by kinetic pharmacological determinations that demonstrated competitive inhibition and a Ki of 20 M.
Redox processes are increasingly being recognized as key elements in the regulation of cellular signaling cascades. They are frequently encountered at the frontier between physiological functions and pathological events. The biological relevance of intracellular redox changes depends on the subcellular origin, the spatio-temporal distribution and the redox couple involved. Thus, a key task in the elucidation of the role of redox reactions is the specific and quantitative measurement of redox conditions with high spatio-temporal resolution. Unfortunately, until recently, our ability to perform such measurements was limited by the lack of adequate technology. Over the last 10 years, promising imaging tools have been developed from fluorescent proteins. Genetically encoded reactive oxygen species (ROS) and redox indicators (GERRIs) have the potential to allow real-time and pseudo-quantitative monitoring of specific ROS and thiol redox state in subcellular compartments or live organisms. Redox-sensitive yellow fluorescent proteins (rxYFP family), redox-sensitive green fluorescent proteins (roGFP family), HyPer (a probe designed to measure H2 O2 ), circularly permuted YFP and others have been used in several models and sufficient information has been collected to highlight their main characteristics. This review is intended to be a tour guide of the main types of GERRIs, their origins, properties, advantages and pitfalls.




Globally benzodiazepines remain one of the most prescribed medication groups, especially in the primary care setting. With such high levels of prescribing it is not surprising that benzodiazepine dependence is common, cutting across all socioeconomic levels. Despite recognition of the potential for the development of iatrogenic dependence and the lack of any effective treatment, benzodiazepines continue to be widely prescribed in general practice. Conventional dependence management, benzodiazepine tapering, is commonly a protracted process over several weeks or months. It is often associated with significant withdrawal symptoms and craving leading to patient drop out and return to use. Accordingly, there is a worldwide need to find effective pharmacotherapeutic interventions for benzodiazepine dependence. One drug of increasing interest is the GABAA benzodiazepine receptor antagonist/partial agonist, flumazenil. Multiple bolus intravenous infusions of low dose flumazenil used either with or without benzodiazepine tapering can reduce withdrawal sequelae, and/or longer term symptoms in the months following withdrawal. Preliminary data suggest that continuous intravenous or subcutaneous flumazenil infusion for 4 days significantly reduces acute benzodiazepine withdrawal sequelae. The subcutaneous infusion was shown to be tissue compatible so the development of a longer acting (i.e. several weeks) depot flumazenil formulation has been explored. This could be capable of managing both acute and longer term benzodiazepine withdrawal sequelae. Preliminary in vitro water bath and in vivo biocompatibility data in sheep show that such an implant is feasible and so is likely to be used in clinical trials in the near future.
Pathological gambling (PG) is a relatively common and often disabling psychiatric condition characterized by intrusive urges to engage in deleterious gambling behaviour. Although common and financially devastating to individuals and families, there currently exist no formally approved pharmacotherapeutic interventions for this disorder. This review seeks to examine the history of medication treatments for PG. A systematic review of the 18 double-blind, placebo-controlled pharmacotherapy studies conducted for the treatment of pathological gambling was conducted. Study outcome and the mean dose of medication administered was documented in an effort to determine a preferred medication choice in this population. A variety of medication classes have been examined in the treatment of PG with varying results. Antidepressants, atypical antipsychotics and mood stabilizers have demonstrated mixed results in controlled clinical trials. Although limited information is available, opioid antagonists and glutamatergic agents have demonstrated efficacious outcomes, especially for individuals with PG suffering from intense urges to engage in the behaviour. Given that several studies have demonstrated their efficacy in treating the symptoms associated with PG, opioid antagonists should be considered the first line treatment for PG at this time. Most published studies, however, have employed relatively small sample sizes, are of limited duration and involve possibly non-representative clinical groups (e.g. those without co-occurring psychiatric disorders). Response measures have varied across studies. Heterogeneity of PG treatment samples may also complicate identification of effective treatments. Identification of factors related to treatment response will help inform future studies and advance treatment strategies for PG.

The long-term effects of dietary strategies designed to combat the metabolic syndrome (MetS) remain unknown. The present study evaluated the effectiveness of a new dietary strategy based on macronutrient distribution, antioxidant capacity and meal frequency (MEtabolic Syndrome REduction in NAvarra (RESMENA) diet) for the treatment of the MetS when compared with the American Heart Association guidelines, used as Control. Subjects with the MetS (fifty-two men and forty-one women, age 49 (se 1) years, BMI 3611 (se 05) kg/m) were randomly assigned to one of two dietary groups. After a 2-month nutritional-learning intervention period, during which a nutritional assessment was made for the participants every 15 d, a 4-month self-control period began. No significant differences were found between the groups concerning anthropometry, but only the RESMENA group exhibited a significant decrease in body weight ( - 17%; P= 0018), BMI ( - 17%; P= 0019), waist circumference ( - 18%; P= 0021), waist:hip ratio ( - 14%; P= 0035) and android fat mass ( - 69%; P= 0008). The RESMENA group exhibited a significant decrease in alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) concentrations ( - 268%; P= 0008 and - 140%; P= 0018, respectively), while the Control group exhibited a significant increase in glucose (79%; P= 0011), AST (113%; P= 0045) and uric acid (90%; P&lt; 0001) concentrations. LDL-cholesterol (LDL-C) concentrations were increased (Control group: 344%; P&lt; 0001 and RESMENA group: 338%; P&lt; 0001), but interestingly so were the LDL-C:apoB ratio (Control group: 287%; P&lt; 0001, RESMENA group: 171%; P= 0009) and HDL-cholesterol concentrations (Control group: 211%; P&lt; 0001, RESMENA group: 87; P= 0001). Fibre was the dietary component that most contributed to the improvement of anthropometry, while body-weight loss explained changes in some biochemical markers. In conclusion, the RESMENA diet is a good long-term dietary treatment for the MetS.









Self-awareness is commonly impaired after traumatic brain injury. This is an important clinical issue as awareness affects long-term outcome and limits attempts at rehabilitation. It can be investigated by studying how patients respond to their errors and monitor their performance on tasks. As awareness is thought to be an emergent property of network activity, we tested the hypothesis that impaired self-awareness is associated with abnormal brain network function. We investigated a group of subjects with traumatic brain injury (n = 63) split into low and high performance-monitoring groups based on their ability to recognize and correct their own errors. Brain network function was assessed using resting-state and event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging. This allowed us to investigate baseline network function, as well as the evoked response of networks to specific events including errors. The low performance-monitoring group underestimated their disability and showed broad attentional deficits. Neural activity within what has been termed the fronto-parietal control network was abnormal in patients with impaired self-awareness. The dorsal anterior cingulate cortex is a key part of this network that is involved in performance-monitoring. This region showed reduced functional connectivity to the rest of the fronto-parietal control network at 'rest'. In addition, the anterior insulae, which are normally tightly linked to the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex, showed increased activity following errors in the impaired group. Interestingly, the traumatic brain injury patient group with normal performance-monitoring showed abnormally high activation of the right middle frontal gyrus, putamen and caudate in response to errors. The impairment of self-awareness was not explained either by the location of focal brain injury, or the amount of traumatic axonal injury as demonstrated by diffusion tensor imaging. The results suggest that impairments of self-awareness after traumatic brain injury result from breakdown of functional interactions between nodes within the fronto-parietal control network.
Insomnia is prevalent, severe and partially heritable. Unfortunately, its neuronal correlates remain enigmatic, hampering the development of mechanistic models and rational treatments. Consistently reported impairments concern fragmented sleep, hyper-arousal and executive dysfunction. Because fronto-striatal networks could well play a role in sleep, arousal regulation and executive functioning, the present series of studies used an executive task to evaluate fronto-striatal functioning in disturbed sleep. Patients with insomnia showed reduced recruitment of the head of the left caudate nucleus during executive functioning, which was not secondary to altered performance or baseline perfusion. Individual differences in caudate recruitment were associated with hyper-arousal severity. Seed-based functional connectivity analysis suggested that attenuated input from a projecting orbitofrontal area with reduced grey matter density contributes to altered caudate recruitment in patients with insomnia. Attenuated caudate recruitment persisted after successful treatment of insomnia, warranting evaluation as a potential vulnerability trait. A similar selective reduction in caudate recruitment could be elicited in participants without sleep complaints by slow-wave sleep fragmentation, providing a model to facilitate investigation of the causes and consequences of insomnia.
Neuroimaging techniques, such as positron emission tomography and functional magnetic resonance imaging are essential tools for the analysis of organized neural systems in working and resting states, both in physiological and pathological conditions. They provide evidence of coupled metabolic and cerebral local blood flow changes that strictly depend upon cellular activity. In 1890, Charles Smart Roy and Charles Scott Sherrington suggested a link between brain circulation and metabolism. In the same year William James, in his introduction of the concept of brain blood flow variations during mental activities, briefly reported the studies of the Italian physiologist Angelo Mosso, a multifaceted researcher interested in the human circulatory system. James focused on Mosso's recordings of brain pulsations in patients with skull breaches, and in the process only briefly referred to another invention of Mosso's, the 'human circulation balance', which could non-invasively measure the redistribution of blood during emotional and intellectual activity. However, the details and precise workings of this instrument and the experiments Mosso performed with it have remained largely unknown. Having found Mosso's original manuscripts in the archives, we remind the scientific community of his experiments with the 'human circulation balance' and of his establishment of the conceptual basis of non-invasive functional neuroimaging techniques. Mosso unearthed and investigated several critical variables that are still relevant in modern neuroimaging such as the 'signal-to-noise ratio', the appropriate choice of the experimental paradigm and the need for the simultaneous recording of differing physiological parameters.
Exposure to an intense, acute stressor, in the absence of a pathogen, alters immune function. Exposure to a single bout of inescapable tail shock increases plasma and tissue concentrations of cytokines, chemokines, and the danger associated molecular pattern (DAMP) Hsp72. Although previous studies have demonstrated that adrenergic receptor (ADR) and glucocorticoid receptor (GCR)-mediated pathways alter pathogen or microbial associated molecular pattern (MAMP)-evoked levels of cytokines, chemokines, and Hsp72, far fewer studies have tested the role of these receptors across multiple inflammatory proteins or tissues to elucidate the differences in magnitude of stress-evoked sterile inflammatory responses. The goals of the current study were to (1) compare the sterile inflammatory response in the circulation, liver, spleen, and subcutaneous (SQ) adipose tissue by measuring cytokine, chemokine, and DAMP (Hsp72) responses; and (2) to test the role of alpha-1 (1), beta-1 (1), beta-2 (2), and beta-3 (3) ADRs, as well as GCRs in signaling the sterile inflammatory response. The data presented indicate plasma and SQ adipose are significantly more stress responsive than the liver and spleen. Further, administration of ADR and GCR-specific antagonists revealed both similarities and differences in the signaling mechanisms of the sterile inflammatory response in the tissues studied. Finally, given the selective increase in the chemokine monocyte chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1) in SQ tissue, it may be that SQ adipose is an important site of leukocyte migration, possibly in preparation for infection as a consequence of wounding. The current study helps further our understanding of the tissue-specific differences of the stress-induced sterile inflammatory response.
Ghrelin is an orexigenic hormone produced mainly by the gastrointestinal system and the brain. Much evidence also indicates a role for ghrelin in sleep and thermoregulation. Further, ghrelin was recently implicated in immune system modulation. Administration of bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) induces fever, anorexia, and increased non-rapid-eye movement sleep (NREMS) and these actions are mediated primarily by proinflammatory cytokines. Ghrelin reduces LPS-induced fever, suppresses circulating levels of proinflammatory cytokines and reduces the severity and mortality of various models of experimental endotoxemia. In the present study, we determined the role of intact ghrelin signaling in LPS-induced sleep, feeding, and thermoregulatory responses in mice. Sleep-wake activity was determined after intraperitoneal, dark onset administration of 0.4, 2 and 10 g LPS in preproghrelin knockout (KO) and wild-type (WT) mice. In addition, body temperature, motor activity and changes in 24-h food intake and body weight were measured. LPS induced dose-dependent increases in NREMS, and suppressed rapid-eye movement sleep, electroencephalographic slow-wave activity, motor activity, food intake and body weight in both Ppg KO and WT mice. Body temperature changes showed a biphasic pattern with a decrease during the dark period followed by an increase in the light phase. The effects of the low and middle doses of LPS were indistinguishable between the two genotypes. Administration of 10 g LPS, however, induced significantly larger changes in NREMS and wakefulness amounts, body temperature, food intake and body weight in the Ppg KO mice. These findings support a role for ghrelin as an endogenous modulator of inflammatory responses and a central component of arousal and feeding circuits.
There has been a growing interest over the past decade into the health benefits of music, in particular examining its psychological and neurological effects. Yet this is the first attempt to systematically review publications on the psychoneuroimmunology of music. Of the selected sixty-three studies published over the past 22 years, a range of effects of music on neurotransmitters, hormones, cytokines, lymphocytes, vital signs and immunoglobulins as well as psychological assessments are cataloged. Research so far points to the pivotal role of stress pathways in linking music to an immune response. However, several challenges to this research are noted: (1) there is very little discussion on the possible mechanisms by which music is achieving its neurological and immunological impact; (2) the studies tend to examine biomarkers in isolation, without taking into consideration the interaction of the biomarkers in question with other physiological or metabolic activities of the body, leading to an unclear understanding of the impact that music may be having; (3) terms are not being defined clearly enough, such as distinctions not being made between different kinds of stress and 'music' being used to encompass a broad spectrum of activities without determining which aspects of musical engagement are responsible for alterations in biomarkers. In light of this, a new model is presented which provides a framework for developing a taxonomy of musical and stress-related variables in research design, and tracing the broad pathways that are involved in its influence on the body.
Toll-like receptors (TLR) are innate immune receptors typically activated by microbial-associated molecular patterns (MAMPs) during infection or damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs) as a result of tissue injury. Recent findings suggest that TLR2 and TLR4 signaling play important roles in developmental and adult neuroplasticity, and in learning and memory. In addition, activation of TLR2 and TLR4 worsens ischemic injury to the heart and brain in animal models of myocardial infarction and stroke. TLR activation is also implicated in thermoregulation and fever in response to infection. However, it is not known whether TLRs participate in the regulation of the sympathetic and/or parasympathetic components of the autonomic nervous system (ANS). Here we provide evidence that TLR2 and TLR4 influence autonomic regulation of heart rate (HR) body temperature and energy metabolism in mice. We show that mice lacking TLR2 or TLR4 exhibit reduced basal HR, which results from an increase of parasympathetic tone. In addition, thermoregulatory responses to stress are altered in TLR2-/- and TLR4-/- mice, and brown fat-dependent thermoregulation is altered in TLR4-/- mice. Moreover, TLR2-/- and TLR4-/- mice consume less food and exhibit a greater mass compared to wild type mice. Collectively, our findings suggest important roles for TLR2 and TLR4 in the ANS regulation of cardiovascular function, thermoregulation, and energy metabolism.
Exposure to infections in early life is considered a risk-factor for developing schizophrenia. Recently we reported that a neonatal CNS infection with influenza A virus in mice resulted in a transient induction of the brain kynurenine pathway, and subsequent behavioral disturbances in immune-deficient adult mice. The aim of the present study was to investigate a potential role in this regard of kynurenic acid (KYNA), an endogenous antagonist at the glycine site of the N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptor and at the cholinergic 7 nicotinic receptor. C57BL/6 mice were injected i.p. with neurotropic influenza A/WSN/33 virus (2400 plaque-forming units) at postnatal day (P) 3 or with L-kynurenine (2200 mg/kg/day) at P7-16. In mice neonatally treated with L-kynurenine prepulse inhibition of the acoustic startle, anxiety, and learning and memory were also assessed. Neonatally infected mice showed enhanced sensitivity to D-amphetamine-induced (5 mg/kg i.p.) increase in locomotor activity as adults. Neonatally L-kynurenine treated mice showed enhanced sensitivity to D-amphetamine-induced (5 mg/kg i.p.) increase in locomotor activity as well as mild impairments in prepulse inhibition and memory. Also, D-amphetamine tended to potentiate dopamine release in the striatum in kynurenine-treated mice. These long-lasting behavioral and neurochemical alterations suggest that the kynurenine pathway can link early-life infection with the development of neuropsychiatric disturbances in adulthood.
Inflammatory processes as well as attenuation of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) availability are involved in the pathophysiology of major depressive disorder (MDD). Although it is generally presumed that these two systems interact negatively in the brain, preclinical and human in vitro studies have shown synergistic rather than antagonistic interactions in the periphery. We therefore examined the association between serum levels of BDNF and plasma levels of interleukin-6 (IL-6) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-) in patients with MDD (n=1070) and non-depressed controls (n=379) from the Netherlands Study of Depression and Anxiety. We used multiple regression analyses with serum BDNF as the dependent variable and we specifically tested the presence of BDNF-cytokine associations in DSM-IV-assigned melancholic MDD patients, identified by the Inventory of Depressive Symptomatology. After adjustment for sociodemographics, sampling variability, lifestyle indicators, somatic diseases and medication use, BDNF levels were predicted by the interaction between MDD diagnosis and IL-6 (p-interaction=.006). Stratified analyses showed that BDNF levels are indeed positively associated with IL-6 levels in MDD patients (=.07, p=.02), but not in non-depressed controls (=-.07, p=.23). When further stratified for melancholic and non-melancholic MDD (p-interaction=.005), IL-6 emerged as a robust positive predictor of BDNF only in the melancholic sample (=.21, p=.01), wherein serum BDNF levels were accordingly enhanced. Post-hoc exploratory analyses verified an accentuated positive association of BDNF levels with leucocyte counts in melancholia. No significant associations emerged between BDNF and TNF-. Overall, our cross-sectional approach may have disclosed an allostatic, BDNF-inducing component of peripheral immunity and/or an immunotrophic function of peripheral BDNF. Both scenarios may warrant further exploration, as they could inform new research concepts towards immune-based antidepressive treatment strategies.
Two experiments were conducted using both behavioral and Event-Related brain Potentials methods to examine conceptual priming effects for realistic auditory scenes and for auditory words. Prime and target sounds were presented in four stimulus combinations: Sound-Sound, Word-Sound, Sound-Word and Word-Word. Within each combination, targets were conceptually related to the prime, unrelated or ambiguous. In Experiment 1, participants were asked to judge whether the primes and targets fit together (explicit task) and in Experiment 2 they had to decide whether the target was typical or ambiguous (implicit task). In both experiments and in the four stimulus combinations, reaction times and/or error rates were longer/higher and the N400 component was larger to ambiguous targets than to conceptually related targets, thereby pointing to a common conceptual system for processing auditory scenes and linguistic stimuli in both explicit and implicit tasks. However, fine-grained analyses also revealed some differences between experiments and conditions in scalp topography and duration of the priming effects possibly reflecting differences in the integration of perceptual and cognitive attributes of linguistic and nonlinguistic sounds. These results have clear implications for the building-up of virtual environments that need to convey meaning without words.
The sensory-motor theory of conceptual representations assumes that motor knowledge of how an artifact is manipulated is constitutive of its conceptual representation. Accordingly, if we assume that the richer the conceptual representation of an object is, the easier that object is identified, manipulable artifacts that are associated with motor knowledge should be identified more accurately and/or faster than manipulable artifacts that are not (everything else being equal). In this study, we tested this prediction by investigating the identification of manipulable artifacts in an individual, DC, who was totally deprived of hand motor experience due to upper limb aplasia. This condition prevents him from interacting with most manipulable artifacts, for which he thus has no motor knowledge at all. However, he had motor knowledge for some of them, which he routinely uses with his feet. We contrasted DC's performance in a timed picture naming task for manipulable artifacts for which he had motor knowledge versus those for which he had no motor knowledge. No detectable advantage on DC's naming performance was found for artifacts for which he had motor knowledge compared to those for which he did not. This finding suggests that motor knowledge is not part of the concepts of manipulable artifacts.
Benign Epilepsy with centrotemporal spikes (BECTS) is considered a benign type of epilepsy; nevertheless a significant number of children present clear and heterogeneous cognitive deficits such as memory disturbances. Thus far, evidence about memory impairment has been less than conclusive. To clarify the quality of memory functioning in BECTS children, an analysis of existing findings has been conducted trying to identify the type of memory deficits and their underlying factors. Short- and long-term declarative memory are impaired in BECTS children, with both verbal and non-verbal material; co-occurrence of attentional, linguistic and behavioral disturbances is reported. In children with continuous spikes and waves during the slow-wave sleep pattern the normal downscaling of slow-wave activity is absent, disrupting plastic brain processes of sleep-related memory consolidation. In BECTS children, NREM sleep interictal epileptiform discharges (IED) may interfere in the dialogue between temporal and frontal cortex, causing declarative memory deficits: the role of NREM sleep IED acquires a special importance, leading to methodological guidance and suggesting aims for future researches in the field of childhood neuroscience.
Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a syndrome resulting from exposure to a severe traumatic event that poses threatened death or injury and produces intense fear and helplessness. The neural structures implicated in PTSD development belong to the limbic system, an important region for emotional processing. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is a neurotrophin that serves as survival factor for selected populations of central nervous system (CNS) neurons and plays a role in the limbic system by regulating synaptic plasticity, memory processes and behavior. Impaired BDNF production in the brain can lead to a variety of CNS dysfunctions including symptoms associated with PTSD. However, so far fewer studies have investigated this neurotrophin in patients with PTSD. Furthermore, given the multiple role of BDNF in various CNS disorders, it cannot be excluded that traumatic events per se may influence neurotrophin levels, without a direct association to the PTSD syndrome. To elucidate these issues, in this study we analyzed BDNF serum levels in two groups of subjects: patients with trauma exposure who developed PTSD, and subjects with trauma exposure who did not develop PTSD. We found that BDNF serum levels were lower in PTSD patients as compared to related control subjects. Thus, these data suggest that BDNF might be involved in pathophysiology of PTSD and consequently therapeutic approaches aimed at restoring BDNF serum levels may be beneficial to this pathology.
Quantum indeterminism is frequently invoked as a solution to the problem of how a disembodied soul might interact with the brain (as Descartes proposed), and is sometimes invoked in theories of libertarian free will even when they do not involve dualistic assumptions. Taking as example the Eccles-Beck model of interaction between self (or soul) and brain at the level of synaptic exocytosis, I here evaluate the plausibility of these approaches. I conclude that Heisenbergian uncertainty is too small to affect synaptic function, and that amplification by chaos or by other means does not provide a solution to this problem. Furthermore, even if Heisenbergian effects did modify brain functioning, the changes would be swamped by those due to thermal noise. Cells and neural circuits have powerful noise-resistance mechanisms, that are adequate protection against thermal noise and must therefore be more than sufficient to buffer against Heisenbergian effects. Other forms of quantum indeterminism must be considered, because these can be much greater than Heisenbergian uncertainty, but these have not so far been shown to play a role in the brain.
Previous research has shown that strength of handedness predicts differences in sensory illusions, Stroop interference, episodic memory, and beliefs about body image. Recent evidence also suggests handedness differences in the susceptibility to common decision biases such as anchoring and sunk cost. The present paper extends this line of work to attribute framing effects. Sixty-three undergraduates were asked to advise a friend concerning the use of a safe allergy medication during pregnancy. A third of the participants received negatively-framed information concerning the fetal risk of the drug (1-3% chance of having a malformed child); another third received positively-framed information (97-99% chance of having a normal child); and the final third received no counseling information and served as the control. Results indicated that, as predicted, inconsistent (mixed)-handers were more responsive than consistent (strong)-handers to information changes and readily update their beliefs. Although not significant, the data also suggested that only inconsistent handers were affected by information framing. Theoretical implications as well as ongoing work in holistic versus analytic processing, contextual sensitivity, and brain asymmetry will be discussed.
Prose reading has been shown to be a very sensitive measure of Unilateral Spatial Neglect. However, little is known about the relationship between prose reading and other measures of neglect and its severity, or between prose reading and single word reading. Thirty participants with a first stroke in the right hemisphere and clear symptoms of spatial neglect in everyday life were assessed with tests of prose reading (text in one column book-like, and in two columns magazine-like), single words reading, and a battery of 13 tests investigating neglect. Seventy percent of these participants omitted words at the beginning of the text (left end), showing Prose Reading Neglect (PRN). The participants showing PRN differed from those not showing PRN only for the overall severity of neglect, and had a lesion centred on the insula, putamen and superior temporal gyrus. Double dissociations emerged between PRN and single word reading neglect, suggesting different cognitive requirements between the two tests: parallel processing in single word reading vs. serial analysis in text reading. Notably, the pattern of neglected text varied dramatically across participants presenting with PRN, including dissociations between reading performance of one and two columns text. Prose reading proved a complex and unique task which should be directly investigated to predict the effects of unilateral neglect. The outcome of this study should also inform clinical assessment and advises given to patients and care-givers.
The present study examined the transfer of higher-order cognitive strategy training to inhibitory control. Middle school students enrolled in a comprehension- and reasoning-focused cognitive strategy training program and passive controls participated. The training program taught students a set of steps for inferring essential gist or themes from materials. Both before and after training or a comparable duration in the case of the passive controls, participants completed a semantically cued Go/No-Go task that was designed to assess the effects of depth of semantic processing on response inhibition and components of event-related potentials (ERP) related to response inhibition. Depth of semantic processing was manipulated by varying the level of semantic categorization required for response selection and inhibition. The SMART-trained group showed inhibitory control gains and changes in fronto-central P3 ERP amplitudes on inhibition trials; whereas, the control group did not. The results provide evidence of the transfer of higher-order cognitive strategy training to inhibitory control and modulation of ERPs associated with semantically cued inhibitory control. The findings are discussed in terms of implications for cognitive strategy training, models of cognitive abilities, and education.
Rapid object visual categorization in briefly flashed natural scenes is influenced by the surrounding context. The neural correlates underlying reduced categorization performance in response to incongruent object/context associations remain unclear and were investigated in the present study using fMRI. Participants were instructed to categorize objects in briefly presented scenes (exposure duration=100ms). Half of the scenes consisted of objects pasted in an expected (congruent) context, whereas for the other half, objects were embedded in incongruent contexts. Object categorization was more accurate and faster in congruent relative to incongruent scenes. Moreover, we found that the two types of scenes elicited different patterns of cerebral activation. In particular, the processing of incongruent scenes induced increased activations in the parahippocampal cortex, as well as in the right frontal cortex. This higher activity may indicate additional neural processing of the novel (non experienced) contextual associations that were inherent to the incongruent scenes. Moreover, our results suggest that the locus of object categorization impairment due to contextual incongruence is in the right anterior parahippocampal cortex. Indeed in this region activity was correlated with the reaction time increase observed with incongruent scenes. Representations for associations between objects and their usual context of appearance might be encoded in the right anterior parahippocampal cortex.
Binding aspects of an experience that are distributed over time is an important element of episodic memory. In the current study, we examined how the temporal complexity of an experience may govern the processes required for its retrieval. We recorded event-related potentials during episodic cued recall following pair associate learning of concurrently and sequentially presented object-picture pairs. Cued recall success effects over anterior and posterior areas were apparent in several time windows. In anterior locations, these recall success effects were similar for concurrently and sequentially encoded pairs. However, in posterior sites clustered over parietal scalp the effect was larger for the retrieval of sequentially encoded pairs. We suggest that anterior aspects of the mid-latency recall success effects may reflect working-with-memory operations or direct access recall processes, while more posterior aspects reflect recollective processes which are required for retrieval of episodes of greater temporal complexity.
The m.3302A&gt;G mutation in the mitochondrial tRNA(Leu(UUR)) gene has been identified in only 12 patients from 6 families, all manifesting adult-onset slowly progressive myopathy with minor central nervous system involvement. An 11-year-old boy presented with progressive proximal-dominant muscle weakness from age 7years. At age 10, he developed recurrent stroke-like episodes. Mitochondrial myopathy, encephalopathy, lactic acidosis, plus stroke-like episodes (MELAS) was diagnosed by clinical symptoms and muscle biopsy findings. Mitochondrial gene analysis revealed a heteroplasmic m.3302A&gt;G mutation. Histological examination showed strongly SDH reactive blood vessels (SSVs), not present in previous cases with myopathies due to the m.3302A&gt;G mutation. These findings broaden the phenotypic spectrum of this mutation.
Two hypotheses about the role of the ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC) in narrative comprehension inferences, global semantic coherence versus socio-emotional perspective, were tested. Seven patients with vmPFC lesions and seven demographically matched healthy comparison participants read short narratives. Using the consistency paradigm, narratives required participants to make either an emotional or visuo-spatial inference, in which a target sentence provided consistent or inconsistent information with a previous emotional state of a character or a visuo-spatial location of an object. Healthy comparison participants made the inferences both for spatial and emotional stories, as shown by longer reading times for inconsistent critical sentences. For patients with vmPFC lesions, inconsistent sentences were read slower in the spatial stories, but not in the emotional ones. This pattern of results is compatible with the hypothesis that vmPFC contributes to narrative comprehension by supporting inferences about socio-emotional aspects of verbally described situations.
Cognitive neuroscience research on semantics recognizes a distinction between categorical and associated relations. However, associations can be divided further, such as into part-whole and functional relations. We investigated the neural basis of both relations using a picture-word interference task in an fMRI study. While the left supramarginal gyrus and the right inferior temporal sulcus were activated by part-whole over functional relations, the same applies to the right parahippocampal complex contrasting the functional over part-whole relations. The small effect sizes of our analyses have to be interpreted with caution. While the parahippocampal complex might reflect global scene processing across objects, the inferior temporal sulcus might be involved in the perceptual encoding of object related knowledge and the supramarginal gyrus might represent a convergence zone which implements within object related perceptual features. The current study gives a first indication that the neural bases for part-whole and functional relations seem to be distinguishable.
Skilled visual word recognition is thought to rely upon a particular region within the left fusiform gyrus, the visual word form area (VWFA). We investigated whether an individual (AA1) with pure alexia resulting from acquired damage to the VWFA territory could learn an alphabetic &quot;FaceFont&quot; orthography, in which faces rather than typical letter-like units are used to represent phonemes. FaceFont was designed to distinguish between perceptual versus phonological influences on the VWFA. AA1 was unable to learn more than five face-phoneme mappings, performing well below that of controls. AA1 succeeded, however, in learning and using a proto-syllabary comprising 15 face-syllable mappings. These results suggest that the VWFA provides a &quot;linguistic bridge&quot; into left hemisphere speech and language regions, irrespective of the perceptual characteristics of a written language. They also suggest that some individuals may be able to acquire a non-alphabetic writing system more readily than an alphabetic writing system.
Exercise has a myriad of health benefits, including positive effects against heart disease, diabetes, and dementia. Cognitive performance improves following chronic exercise, both in animal models and humans. Studies have examined the effect of exercise on feeding, demonstrating a preference towards increased food consumption. Further, sex differences exist such that females tend to prefer carbohydrates over other macronutrients following exercise. However, no clear effect of exercise on macronutrient or carbohydrate selection has been described in animal or human studies. This research project sought to determine the effect of voluntary exercise on carbohydrate selection in female rats. Preference for a complex (starch) versus a simple (dextrose) carbohydrate was assessed using a discriminative preference to context paradigm in non-exercising and voluntarily exercising female rats. In addition, fasting blood glucose and performance in the Morris water task was examined in order to verify the effects of exercise on performance in this task. Female rats given access to running wheels preferred a context previously associated with starch, whereas females with no running wheel access preferred a context previously associated with dextrose. No changes in blood glucose were observed. However, cognitive differences in the Morris water task were observed such that voluntary exercise allowed rats to find a new location of a hidden platform following 4 days of training to an old platform location. These results suggest that voluntary exercise may decrease preservative behaviors in a spatial navigation task through the facilitation of plasticity mechanisms. This study is the first of its kind to demonstrate the influence of exercise on taste preference for complex and simple carbohydrates with this context conditioning paradigm.


Extracellular vesicles have emerged as important mediators of intercellular communication in cancer, including by conveying tumor-promoting microRNAs between cells, but their regulation is poorly understood. In this study, we report the findings of a comparative microRNA profiling and functional analysis in human glioblastoma that identifies miR-1 as an orchestrator of extracellular vesicle function and glioblastoma growth and invasion. Ectopic expression of miR-1 in glioblastoma cells blocked in vivo growth, neovascularization, and invasiveness. These effects were associated with a role for miR-1 in intercellular communication in the microenvironment mediated by extracellular vesicles released by cancer stem-like glioblastoma cells. An extracellular vesicle-dependent phenotype defined by glioblastoma invasion, neurosphere growth, and endothelial tube formation was mitigated by loading miR-1 into glioblastoma-derived extracellular vesicles. Protein cargo in extracellular vesicles was characterized to learn how miR-1 directed extracellular vesicle function. The mRNA encoding Annexin A2 (ANXA2), one of the most abundant proteins in glioblastoma-derived extracellular vesicles, was found to be a direct target of miR-1 control. In addition, extracellular vesicle-derived miR-1 along with other ANXA2 extracellular vesicle networking partners targeted multiple pro-oncogenic signals in cells within the glioblastoma microenvironment. Together, our results showed how extracellular vesicle signaling promotes the malignant character of glioblastoma and how ectopic expression of miR-1 can mitigate this character, with possible implications for how to develop a unique miRNA-based therapy for glioblastoma management.
Nicotinic acid adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NAADP) is the most potent Ca2+ mobilizing second messenger that has been identified. We have previously shown that NAADP analogs substituted at the 5-position of nicotinic acid were recognized by the sea urchin receptor at low concentration, whereas the 4- substituted analogs were not as potent. However, to date the structure-activity relationship (SAR) of these analogs has not been addressed in mammalian systems. Thus, we asked whether these structurally modified analogs behave similarly in an NAADP-responsive mammalian cell line (SKBR3) using microinjection and single cell fluorescent imaging methods. Novel &quot;caged&quot; 4- and 5-substituted NAADP analogs that were activated inside the cell by flash photolysis resulted in Ca2+ mobilizing activity in SKBR3 cells in a concentration dependent manner, but with reduced effectiveness compared to unmodified NAADP. The SAR in mammalian SKBR3 cells was quite different from that of sea urchin and may suggest that there are differences between NAADP receptors in different species or tissues. Importantly, these data indicate that modifications at the 4- and 5-position of the nicotinic acid ring may lead to the development of functional photoaffinity labels that could be used for receptor localization and isolation in mammalian systems.
Cells with aberrations in chromosomal ploidy are normally removed by apoptosis. However, aneuploid neurons have been shown to remain functional and active both in the cortex and in the retina. Lim1 horizontal progenitor cells in the chicken retina have a heterogenic final cell cycle, producing some cells that enter S-phase without proceeding into M-phase. The cells become heteroploid but do not undergo developmental cell death. This prompted us to investigate if the final cell cycle of these cells is under the regulation of an active DNA damage response. Our results show that the DNA damage response pathway, including -H2AX and Rad51 foci, is not triggered during any phase of the different final cell cycles of horizontal progenitor cells. However, chemically inducing DNA adducts or double-strand breaks in Lim1 horizontal progenitor cells activated the DNA damage response pathway, showing that the cells are capable of a functional response to DNA damage. Moreover, manipulation of the DNA damage response pathway during the final cell cycle using inhibitors of ATM/ATR, Chk1/2, and p38MAPK, neither induced apoptosis nor mitosis in the Lim1 horizontal progenitor cells. We conclude that the DNA damage response pathway is functional in the Lim1 horizontal progenitor cells, but that it is not directly involved in the regulation of the final cell cycle that gives rise to the heteroploid horizontal cell population.
Astrocytes emerge as crucial cells for proper neuronal functioning in the developing and adult brain. Neurons and astrocytes are sequentially generated from the same pool of neural stem cells (NSCs). Tight regulation of the neuron-to-astrocyte switch is critical for (1) the generation of a balanced number of astrocytes and neurons and (2) neuronal circuit formation, since newborn astrocytes regulate synapse formation. This review focuses on signaling pathways that instruct astrogenesis, incorporating recently discovered intrinsic and extrinsic regulators. The canonical pathway of astrocytic gene expression, JAK/STAT signaling, is inhibited during neurogenesis to prevent premature astrocyte differentiation. At the onset of astrogenesis, Notch signaling induces epigenetic remodeling of astrocytic genes like glial fibrillary acidic protein to change NSC competence. In turn, astrogenesis is initiated by signals received from newborn neurons. We highlight how key molecular pathways like JAK/STAT and Notch are integrated in a complex network of environmental signals and epigenetic and transcriptional regulators to determine NSC differentiation. It is essential to understand NSC differentiation in respect to future NSC-based therapies for brain diseases, as transplanted NSCs preferentially become astrocytes. As emphasized in this review, many clues in this respect can be learned from development.
3',5'-cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterases (PDEs) are the only known enzymes to compartmentalize cAMP and cGMP, yet little is known about how PDEs are dynamically regulated across the lifespan. We mapped mRNA expression of all 21 PDE isoforms in the adult rat and mouse central nervous system (CNS) using quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) and in situ hybridization to assess conservation across species. We also compared PDE mRNA and protein in the brains of old (26 months) versus young (5 months) Sprague-Dawley rats, with select experiments replicated in old (9 months) versus young (2 months) BALB/cJ mice. We show that each PDE isoform exhibits a unique expression pattern across the brain that is highly conserved between rats, mice, and humans. PDE1B, PDE1C, PDE2A, PDE4A, PDE4D, PDE5A, PDE7A, PDE8A, PDE8B, PDE10A, and PDE11A showed an age-related increase or decrease in mRNA expression in at least 1 of the 4 brain regions examined (hippocampus, cortex, striatum, and cerebellum). In contrast, mRNA expression of PDE1A, PDE3A, PDE3B, PDE4B, PDE7A, PDE7B, and PDE9A did not change with age. Age-related increases in PDE11A4, PDE8A3, PDE8A4/5, and PDE1C1 protein expression were confirmed in hippocampus of old versus young rodents, as were age-related increases in PDE8A3 protein expression in the striatum. Age-related changes in PDE expression appear to have functional consequences as, relative to young rats, the hippocampi of old rats demonstrated strikingly decreased phosphorylation of GluR1, CaMKII, and CaMKII, decreased expression of the transmembrane AMPA regulatory proteins 2 (a.k.a. stargazin) and 8, and increased trimethylation of H3K27. Interestingly, expression of PDE11A4, PDE8A4/5, PDE8A3, and PDE1C1 correlate with these functional endpoints in young but not old rats, suggesting that aging is not only associated with a change in PDE expression but also a change in PDE compartmentalization.
Many noctuid moth species perceive ultrasound via tympanic ears that are located at the metathorax. Whereas the neural processing of auditory information is well studied at the peripheral and first synaptic level, little is known about the features characterizing higher order sound-sensitive neurons in the moth brain. During intracellular recordings from the lateral protocerebrum in the brain of three noctuid moth species, Heliothis virescens, Helicoverpa armigera and Helicoverpa assulta, we found an assembly of neurons responding to transient sound pulses of broad bandwidth. The majority of the auditory neurons ascended from the ventral cord and ramified densely within the anterior region of the ventro-lateral protocerebrum. The physiological and morphological characteristics of these auditory neurons were similar. We detected one additional sound-sensitive neuron, a brain interneuron with its soma positioned near the calyces of mushroom bodies and with numerous neuronal processes in the ventro-lateral protocerebrum. Mass-staining of ventral-cord neurons supported the assumption that the ventro-lateral region of the moth brain was the main target for the auditory projections ascending from the ventral cord.

We used transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to investigate how the visual context provided by viewing one's own body influences somatosensory processing. In the visual enhancement of touch (VET) effect, viewing the body enhances tactile acuity relative to viewing a nonbody object. Single-pulse TMS was delivered over anterior intraparietal sulcus (aIPS), which is crucial for integrating visual and somatosensory information related to the body, during the interval between a brief glimpse of the arm, or an object, and tactile stimulation. TMS to aIPS just after visual stimulation abolished VET, while TMS at the time of touch itself did not. Disrupting nearby areas just anterior or posterior to aIPS left the VET effect intact. Viewing the arm may activate multisensory areas in aIPS, which may then rapidly modulate somatosensory circuits. We suggest that this enhancement of touch by vision involves feedback signals from aIPS to unimodal somatosensory cortex. Our study provides causal evidence of a specific multisensory mechanism that modulates tactile processing in the human brain.
Oxytocin has a fundamental role in social behavior. In humans, supporting evidence shows that oxytocin enhances people's ability to trust or affiliate with others. A key question is whether differences in plasma oxytocin concentration in humans are related to people's differences in their social traits of personality and if such differences are reflected in the structural organization of brain areas responsive to the action of this hormone. We examined the correlation between oxytocin plasma levels and personality traits in 30 healthy subjects, tested with the Inventory revised neuroticism-extroversion-openness personality inventory (NEO-PI-R). By using the voxel-based morphometry technique, we also investigated changes in gray matter volume as a function of the plasma oxytocin level and NEO-PI-R scores. A positive correlation was found between plasma oxytocin and extraversion scores, a dimension that captures social affiliative tendencies. Moreover, we found an inverse correlation between plasma oxytocin and the volume of the right amygdala and the right hippocampus, 2 brain areas implicated in fear and anxiety. Finally, we showed that the amygdala-hippocampal complex correlate negatively with extraversion scores. Our findings provide evidence for a neural mechanism linking physiological oxytocin's variability and structural variation of brain regions relevant for emotion regulation to individual differences in affiliative personality traits.
Compromised functional integration between cerebral subsystems and dysfunctional brain network organization may underlie the neurocognitive deficits seen in psychiatric disorders. Applying topological measures from network science to brain imaging data allows the quantification of complex brain network connectivity. While this approach has recently been used to further elucidate the nature of brain dysfunction in schizophrenia, the value of applying this approach in preclinical models of psychiatric disease has not been recognized. For the first time, we apply both established and recently derived algorithms from network science (graph theory) to functional brain imaging data from rats treated subchronically with the N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptor antagonist phencyclidine (PCP). We show that subchronic PCP treatment induces alterations in the global properties of functional brain networks akin to those reported in schizophrenia. Furthermore, we show that subchronic PCP treatment induces compromised functional integration between distributed neural systems, including between the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus, that have established roles in cognition through, in part, the promotion of thalamic dysconnectivity. We also show that subchronic PCP treatment promotes the functional disintegration of discrete cerebral subsystems and also alters the connectivity of neurotransmitter systems strongly implicated in schizophrenia. Therefore, we propose that sustained NMDA receptor hypofunction contributes to the pathophysiology of dysfunctional brain network organization in schizophrenia.
Interactions between numbers and space have become a major issue in cognitive neuroscience, because they suggest that numerical representations might be deeply rooted in cortical networks that also subserve spatial cognition. The spatial-numerical association of response codes (SNARC) is the most robust and widely replicated demonstration of the link between numbers and space: in magnitude comparison or parity judgments, participants' reaction times to small numbers are faster with left than right effectors, whereas the converse is found for large numbers. However, despite the massive body of research on number-space interactions, the nature of the SNARC effect remains controversial and no study to date has identified its hemodynamic correlates. Using functional near-infrared spectroscopy, we found a hemodynamic signature of the SNARC effect in the bilateral intraparietal sulcus, a core region for numerical magnitude representation, and left angular gyrus (ANG), a region implicated in verbal number processing. Activation of intraparietal sulcus was also modulated by numerical distance. Our findings point to number semantics as cognitive locus of number-space interactions, thereby revealing the intrinsic spatial nature of numerical magnitude representation. Moreover, the involvement of left ANG is consistent with the mediating role of verbal/cultural factors in shaping interactions between numbers and space.
The focus of spatial attention can be not only oriented to a particular location, but also adjusted in its size to select visual information from a narrow (zoom-in) or broad (zoom-out) region of the visual field. Attentional orienting, saccades programming, and visual search have been linked to the frontal eye fields (FEF) activity. However, the FEF causal role in the frontoparietal network for the attentional focus size modulation remains unclear. Here, we delivered single-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) on FEF while participants performed an attentional zooming task. They were asked to detect a visual target appearing at 3 eccentricities from the fixation. Two cue types modulated the size of the attended region: a small cue was employed to narrow the attentional focus, whereas a large cue induced participants to broaden the attended region. Results showed that TMS delivered on the right FEF, but not on the left FEF, was able to interfere with both zoom-in and zoom-out attentional mechanisms. Our results provide the first evidence of the right FEF casual role in the attentional zooming control and give new insights into the neural mechanisms of dysfunctional spatial attention deployment shown in neurodevelopmental disorders, such as autism and dyslexia.
Sensorimotor adaptation ensures movement accuracy despite continuously changing environment and body. Adaptation of saccadic eye movements is a classical model of sensorimotor adaptation. Beside the well-established role of the brainstem-cerebellum in the adaptation of reactive saccades (RSs), the cerebral cortex has been suggested to be involved in the adaptation of voluntary saccades (VSs). Here, we provide direct evidence for a causal involvement of the parietal cortex in saccadic adaptation. First, the posterior intraparietal sulcus (pIPS) was identified in each subject using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Then, a saccadic adaptation paradigm was used to progressively reduce the amplitude of RSs and VSs, while single-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation (spTMS) was applied over the right pIPS. The perturbations of pIPS resulted in impairment for the adaptation of VSs, selectively when spTMS was applied 60 ms after saccade onset. In contrast, the adaptation of RSs was facilitated by spTMS applied 90 ms after saccade initiation. The differential effect of spTMS relative to saccade types suggests a direct interference with pIPS activity for the VS adaptation and a remote interference with brainstem-cerebellum activity for the RS adaptation. These results support the hypothesis that the adaptation of VSs and RSs involves different neuronal substrates.
The experience of learning and using a second language (L2) has been shown to affect the grey matter (GM) structure of the brain. Importantly, GM density in several cortical and subcortical areas has been shown to be related to performance in L2 tasks. Here, we show that bilingualism can lead to increased GM volume in the cerebellum, a structure that has been related to the processing of grammatical rules. Additionally, the cerebellar GM volume of highly proficient L2 speakers is correlated to their performance in a task tapping on grammatical processing in an L2, demonstrating the importance of the cerebellum for the establishment and use of grammatical rules in an L2.
Sensory-specific satiation refers to the decrease in pleasantness derived from a consumed food relative to other unconsumed foods. In the current study, it was investigated to what extent sensory-specific satiation is modality specific. To this end, 80 female participants ate a preferred snack until full while wearing (or not wearing) a blindfold and/or a nose clip. Impaired vision should impede satiation for the appearance of the consumed test snack. Obstructing olfaction should undermine satiation for the smell of the test snack. Indeed, when vision was obstructed, hedonic ratings of specifically snack appearance did not decrease as much. When olfaction was blocked, the hedonic ratings for the flavor of the test snack did not show as much of a reduction. It is concluded that, to a degree, sensory-specific satiation is indeed modality specific.
Deaf youth may be more vulnerable to psychiatric disorders but very little research data is available. The current study identified prevalence rates of psychiatric disorders and examined the psychosocial needs and strengths of deaf youth aged 4-17 receiving specialized outpatient mental health services for the deaf. Compared to hearing peers, deaf youth had greater rates of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, conduct, autism-spectrum and bipolar disorders and spent three times longer in treatment than their hearing peers. In the deaf subsample, moderate-severe risk was found in social functioning (33.3 %) and suicidal behavior (14 %). Deaf youth had moderate to severe impairment in social relationships (54.8 %), school functioning (42.9 %). Over one-third of deaf youth had impaired family relationships, living situation, communication, judgment and physical health. Deaf youth present with higher rates of certain clinical disorders and have deficits in multiple life domains that may impact functioning and create a longer treatment course.


Hereditary angioedema due to C1-inhibitor deficiency (HAE-C1INH) is a rare autosomal-dominant disease caused by mutations in SERPING1 gene. The main clinical feature of C1INH deficiency is the spontaneous edema of the subcutaneous and submucosal layers. More than 280 different mutations scattering the entire SERPING1 gene have been reported. We identified and characterized a new mutation in SERPING1 gene in a Spanish family with hereditary angioedema. The mutation (c.685 + 2 T &gt; A) disrupts the donor splice site of intron 4 leading to the loss of exon 4 in mutant mRNA. We demonstrated that mutant mRNA is mostly degraded, probably by the surveillance pathway no-go mRNA decay. Bioinformatic analysis showed that the mutant protein, if produced, would be non-functional since the protein lacks a stretch of 45 amino acids affecting the functional RCL loop. Finally, we found a reduction of the wild-type mRNA expression in c.685 + 2 T &gt; A carriers.
















Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic disease with an inflammatory and neurodegenerative pathology. Axonal loss and neurodegeneration occurs early in the disease course and may lead to irreversible neurological impairment. Changes in brain volume, observed from the earliest stage of MS and proceeding throughout the disease course, may be an accurate measure of neurodegeneration and tissue damage. There are a number of magnetic resonance imaging-based methods for determining global or regional brain volume, including cross-sectional (e.g. brain parenchymal fraction) and longitudinal techniques (e.g. SIENA [Structural Image Evaluation using Normalization of Atrophy]). Although these methods are sensitive and reproducible, caution must be exercised when interpreting brain volume data, as numerous factors (e.g. pseudoatrophy) may have a confounding effect on measurements, especially in a disease with complex pathological substrates such as MS. Brain volume loss has been correlated with disability progression and cognitive impairment in MS, with the loss of grey matter volume more closely correlated with clinical measures than loss of white matter volume. Preventing brain volume loss may therefore have important clinical implications affecting treatment decisions, with several clinical trials now demonstrating an effect of disease-modifying treatments (DMTs) on reducing brain volume loss. In clinical practice, it may therefore be important to consider the potential impact of a therapy on reducing the rate of brain volume loss. This article reviews the measurement of brain volume in clinical trials and practice, the effect of DMTs on brain volume change across trials and the clinical relevance of brain volume loss in MS.
There is a clear and pressing need to expand pharmacotherapy options for substance use disorders (SUDs) in order to improve sustained abstinence outcomes. Preclinical literature has demonstrated the role of glutamate in addiction, suggesting that new targets for pharmacotherapy should focus on the restoration of glutamatergic function. Glutamatergic agents for SUDs may span multiple addictive behaviors and help demonstrate potentially overlapping mechanisms in addiction. The current review will focus specifically on N-acetylcysteine (NAC), a safe and well-tolerated glutamatergic agent, as a promising potential pharmacotherapy for the treatment of SUDs across several substances of abuse. Building on recently published reviews of the clinical efficacy of NAC across a broad range of conditions, this review will more specifically discuss NAC as a pharmacotherapy for SUDs, devoting particular attention to the safety and tolerability profile of NAC, the wealth of preclinical evidence that has demonstrated the role of glutamate dysregulation in addiction, and the limited but growing clinical literature that has assessed the efficacy of NAC across multiple substances of abuse. Preliminary clinical studies show the promise of NAC in terms of safety, tolerability, and potential efficacy for promoting abstinence from cocaine, nicotine, and cannabis. Results from randomized clinical trials have been mixed, but several mechanistic and methodological factors are discussed to refine the use of NAC in promoting abstinence and relapse prevention across several substances of abuse. Further preclinical and clinical investigation into the use of NAC for SUDs will be vital in addressing current deficits in the treatment of SUDs.
Impulsivity and compulsivity represent useful conceptualizations that involve dissociable cognitive functions, which are mediated by neuroanatomically and neurochemically distinct components of cortico-subcortical circuitry. The constructs were historically viewed as diametrically opposed, with impulsivity being associated with risk-seeking and compulsivity with harm-avoidance. However, they are increasingly recognized to be linked by shared neuropsychological mechanisms involving dysfunctional inhibition of thoughts and behaviors. In this article, we selectively review new developments in the investigation of the neurocognition of impulsivity and compulsivity in humans, in order to advance our understanding of the pathophysiology of impulsive, compulsive, and addictive disorders and indicate new directions for research.
This issue of CNS Spectrums contains a unique collection of manuscripts that examine compulsivity and impulsivity from a broad range of perspectives and helps to shape our evolving understanding of compulsivity and impulsivity as orthogonal symptom dimensions arising from parallel tightly regulated brain circuits giving rise to a spectrum of overlapping diagnostic categories.
Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) and related conditions (trichotillomania, pathological skin-picking, pathological nail-biting) are common and disabling. Current treatment approaches fail to help a significant proportion of patients. Multiple tiers of evidence link these conditions with underlying dysregulation of particular cortico-subcortical circuitry and monoamine systems, which represent targets for treatment. Animal models designed to capture aspects of these conditions are critical for several reasons. First, they help in furthering our understanding of neuroanatomical and neurochemical underpinnings of the obsessive-compulsive (OC) spectrum. Second, they help to account for the brain mechanisms by which existing treatments (pharmacotherapy, psychotherapy, deep brain stimulation) exert their beneficial effects on patients. Third, they inform the search for novel treatments. This article provides a critique of key animal models for selected OC spectrum disorders, beginning with initial work relating to anxiety, but moving on to recent developments in domains of genetic, pharmacological, cognitive, and ethological models. We find that there is a burgeoning literature in these areas with important ramifications, which are considered, along with salient future lines of research.

Impulsivity and compulsivity have been considered opposite poles of a continuous spectrum, but their relationship appears to be more complex. Disorders characterized by impulsivity often have features of compulsivity and vice versa. The overlaps of the constructs of compulsivity and impulsivity warrant additional investigation, not only to identify the similarities and differences, but also to examine the implications for prevention and treatment strategies of both compulsive and impulsive behaviors.
Many cognitive tasks involve transitions between distinct mental processes, which may range from discrete states to complex strategies. The ability of cortical networks to combine discrete jumps with continuous glides along ever changing trajectories, dubbed latching dynamics, may be essential for the emergence of the unique cognitive capacities of modern humans. Novel trajectories have to be followed in the multidimensional space of cortical activity for novel behaviours to be produced; yet, not everything changes: several lines of evidence point at recurring patterns in the sequence of activation of cortical areas in a variety of behaviours. To extend a mathematical model of latching dynamics beyond the simple unstructured auto-associative Potts network previously analysed, we introduce delayed structured connectivity and hetero-associative connection weights, and we explore their effects on the dynamics. A modular model in the small-world regime is considered, with modules arranged on a ring. The synaptic weights include a standard auto-associative component, stabilizing distinct patterns of activity, and a hetero-associative component, favoring transitions from one pattern, expressed in one module, to the next, in the next module. We then study, through simulations, how structural parameters, like those regulating rewiring probability, noise and feedback connections, determine sequential association dynamics.
Intentional choice is an important process underlying human behaviour. Intentional inhibition refers to the capacity to endogenously cancel an about-to-be-executed action at the last moment. Previous research suggested that such intentional inhibitory control requires conscious effort and awareness. Here we show that intentional decisions to inhibit are nevertheless influenced by unconscious processing. In a novel version of the Go/No-Go task, participants made speeded keypress actions to a Go target, or withheld responses to a No-Go target, or made free, spontaneous choices whether to execute or inhibit a keypress when presented with a free-choice target. Prior to each target, subliminal masked prime arrows were presented. Primes could be congruent with the Go or No-Go arrows, or neutral. Response times and proportion of action choices were measured. Primes were presented at latencies that would give either positive or negative compatibility effects (PCE, Experiment 1, and NCE, Experiment 2, respectively), based on previous literature. Go-primes at positive-compatibility latencies facilitated speeded response times as expected, but did not influence number of choices to act on free-choice trials. However, when Go primes were presented at negative-compatibility latencies, &quot;free&quot; decisions to inhibit were significantly increased. Decisions to act or not can be unconsciously manipulated, at least by inhibitory mechanisms. The cognitive mechanisms for intentionally withholding an action can be influenced by unconscious processing. We discuss possible moral and legal implications of these findings.
The sense of control over the consequences of one's actions depends on predictions about these consequences. According to an influential computational model, consistency between predicted and observed action consequences attenuates perceived stimulus intensity, which might provide a marker of agentic control. An important assumption of this model is that these predictions are generated within the motor system. However, previous studies of sensory attenuation have typically confounded motor-specific perceptual modulation with perceptual effects of stimulus predictability that are not specific to motor action. As a result, these studies cannot unambiguously attribute sensory attenuation to a motor locus. We present a psychophysical experiment on auditory attenuation that avoids this pitfall. Subliminal masked priming of motor actions with compatible prime-target pairs has previously been shown to modulate both reaction times and the explicit feeling of control over action consequences. Here, we demonstrate reduced perceived loudness of tones caused by compatibly primed actions. Importantly, this modulation results from a manipulation of motor processing and is not confounded by stimulus predictability. We discuss our results with respect to theoretical models of the mechanisms underlying sensory attenuation and subliminal motor priming.
Planning defined as the predetermination of a sequence of actions towards some goal is crucial for complex problem solving. To shed light on the evolution of executive functions, we investigated the ontogenetic and phylogenetic origins of planning. Therefore, we presented all four great apes species (N=12) as well as 4- and 5-year-old human preschoolers (N=24) with a vertical maze task. To gain a reward placed on the uppermost level of the maze, subjects had to move the reward to the bottom through open gaps situated at each level of the maze. In total, there were ten gaps located over three of the maze's levels, and free passage through these gaps could be flexibly blocked using multiple traps. Due to the decision tree design of the maze, the subjects had to plan their actions depending on the trap configuration up to two steps ahead to successfully retrieve the reward. We found that (1) our measure of planning was negatively correlated with age in nonhuman apes, (2) younger apes as well as 5-year-old children planned their moves up to two steps ahead whereas 4-year-olds were limited to plan one step ahead, and (3) similar performance but different underlying limitations between apes and children. Namely, while all species of nonhuman apes were limited by a lack of motor control, human children exhibited a shortage in shifting their attention across a sequence of subgoals.
Implicit preparation over time is a complex cognitive capacity important to optimize behavioral responses to a target occurring after a temporal interval, the so-called foreperiod (FP). If the FP occurs randomly and with the same a priori probability, shorter response times are usually observed with longer FPs than with shorter ones (FP effect). Moreover, responses are slower when the preceding FP was longer than the current one (sequential effects). It is still a matter of debate how different processes influence these temporal preparation phenomena. The present study used a dual-task procedure to understand how different processes, along the automatic-controlled continuum, may contribute to these temporal preparation phenomena. Dual-task demands were manipulated in two experiments using a subtraction task during the FP. This secondary task was administered in blocks (Experiment 1) or was embedded together with a baseline single-task in the same experimental session (Experiment 2). The results consistently showed that the size of the FP effect, but not that of sequential effects, is sensitive to dual-task manipulations. This functional dissociation unveils the multi-faceted nature of implicit temporal preparation: while the FP effect is due to a controlled, resource-consuming preparatory mechanism, a more automatic mechanism underlies sequential effects.

A disorder of impulsive aggression has been in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual for Mental Disorders (DSM) since the first edition. In DSM-III, this disorder was codified as Intermittent Explosive Disorder (IED) and was thought to be rare. However, DSM criteria for IED were poorly operationalized and empiric research in IED was limited until the past decade when research criteria were developed. Subsequently, renewed interest in disorders of impulsive aggression led to a recent series of community based studies that have now documented IED to be as common as many other psychiatric disorders. Recent research indicates that the core of IED (A criteria) can be captured with new criteria that identify high frequency/low intensity aggressive outbursts (A1) and low frequency/hi intensity outbursts (A2). This paper presents new data regarding the phenomenology, comorbidity/life course of IED as a function of A1 and A2 criteria. Together with reanalysis of previously published data regarding family history, biomarkers, and treatment response in individuals with recurrent, problematic, impulsive aggression, these data provide empirical support for both A1 and A2 criteria for DSM-5 IED.

Psychiatric disorders are not uncommon among severely obese patients who present for bariatric surgery. This paper (1) reviews the results of the published studies using the structured interviews to assess psychopathology in bariatric surgery candidates; (2) compares the prevalence rates of psychiatric disorders across these studies with the data from other population samples; and (3) assesses whether sociodemographic variables appear to affect these prevalence rates. We searched online resources, PubMed, PsychINFO and reference lists of all the relevant articles to provide an overview of evidence so far and highlight some details in the assessment and comparisons of different samples in different countries. The prevalence estimates in the non-treatment obese group did not appear to differ substantially from the general population group in the US or the Italian population samples, although they were relatively higher for the German population. However, the rates of psychopathology in the bariatric surgery candidates were considerably higher than the other two population groups in all the samples. Overall, the most common category of lifetime Axis I disorders in all the studies was affective disorders, with anxiety disorders being the most common category of current Axis I disorders. Certain demographic characteristics are also associated with higher rates of psychopathology, such as, female gender, low socioeconomic status, higher BMI. Overall, methodological and sociodemographic differences make these studies difficult to compare and these differences should be taken into account when interpreting the results.
Despite general support for dimensional models of personality disorder, it is currently unclear which, and how many, dimensions a taxonomy of this kind should include. In an attempt to obtain an empirically-based, comprehensive, and usable structure of personality, three instruments - The Temperament and Character Inventory-Revised (TCI-R), the Personality Diagnostic Questionnaire-4+(PDQ-4+), and the Dimensional Assessment of Personality Pathology-Basic Questionnaire (DAPP-BQ) - were administered to 960 outpatients and their scales factor-analyzed following a bass ackwards approach. The resulting hierarchical structure was interpretable and replicable across gender and methods up to seven factors. This structure highlights coincidences among current dimensional models and clarifies their apparent divergences, and thus helps to delineate the unified taxonomy of normal and abnormal personality that the field requires.

Microalbuminuria (MA) is an independent predictor of cardiovascular and renal disease, development of overt nephropathy, and cardiovascular mortality in patients with type 2 diabetes. Detecting MA is an important screening tool to identify people with high risk of cardiovascular and kidney disease. The gold standard to detect MA is measuring 24-h urine albumin excretion. A new method for MA diagnosis is presented in this manuscript which uses clinical parameters usually monitored in type 2 diabetic patients without the need of an additional measurement of urinary albumin. We designed an expert-based fuzzy MA classifier in which rule induction was performed by particle swarm optimization. A variety of classifiers was tested. Additionally, multiple logistic regression was used for statistical feature extraction. The significant features were age, diabetic duration, body mass index and HbA1C (the average level of blood sugar over the previous 3 months, which is routinely checked every 3 months for diabetic patients). The resulting classifier was tested on a sample size of 200 patients with type 2 diabetes in a cross-sectional study. The performance of the proposed classifier was assessed using (repeated) holdout and 10-fold cross-validation. The minimum sensitivity, specificity, precision and accuracy of the proposed fuzzy classifier system with feature extraction were 95%, 85%, 84% and 92%, respectively. The proposed hybrid intelligent system outperformed other tested classifiers and showed &quot;almost perfect agreement&quot; with the gold standard. This algorithm is a promising new tool for screening MA in type-2 diabetic patients.
Purkinje neurons are the sole output neuron of the cerebellar cortex, and they generate high-frequency action potentials. Electrophysiological dysfunction of Purkinje neurons causes cerebellar ataxia. Mutant med mice have the lack of expression of the Scn8a gene. This gene encodes the NaV1.6 protein. In med Purkinje neurons, regular high-frequency firing is slowed, and med mice are ataxic. The aim of this study was to propose the neuroprotective drugs which could be useful for ataxia treatment in med mice, and to investigate the neuroprotective effects of these drugs by simulation. Simulation results showed that Kv4 channel inhibitors and BK channel activators restored the normal electrophysiological properties of the med Purkinje neurons. 4-Aminopyridine (4-AP) and acetazolamide (ACTZ) were proposed as neuroprotective drugs for Kv4 channel inhibitor and BK channel activator, respectively.
The aim of this research was to provide an articulated assessment of several different ToM components, namely first- vs. third-person, egocentric vs. allocentric, and first- vs. second-order ToM, in preadolescence and adolescence. Our expectations for the sample of 80 juveniles that participated in the research were that: (1) ToM abilities would improve with age; (2) participants would perform better at first-person than at third-person tasks; (3) participants would perform better at first-order than at second-order tasks; (4) girls will perform systematically better than boys. We also explored possible differences in performance (5) in the allocentric vs. the egocentric perspectives as well as (6) in the comprehension of different types of mental states, namely desires, beliefs and positive and negative emotions. Overall our expectations were confirmed. Our data confirmed that all ToM aspects we investigated keep maturing during preadolescence and adolescence.
Grapheme-colour synaesthetes experience unusual colour percepts when they encounter letters and/or digits. Studies of English-speaking grapheme-colour synaesthetes have shown that synaesthetic colours are sometimes triggered by rule-based linguistic mechanisms (e.g., B might be blue). In contrast, little is known about synaesthesia in logographic languages such as Chinese. The current study shows the mechanisms by which synaesthetic speakers of Chinese colour their language. One hypothesis is that Chinese characters might be coloured by their constituent morphological units, known as radicals, and we tested this by eliciting synaesthetic colours for characters while manipulating features of the radicals within them. We found that both the function (semantic vs. phonetic) and position (left vs. right) of radicals influence the nature of the synaesthetic colour generated. Our data show that in Chinese, as in English, synaesthetic colours are influenced by systematic rules, rather than by random associations, and that these rules are based on existing psycholinguistic mechanisms of language processing.
There is currently no consensus regarding what measures are most valid to demonstrate perceptual processing without awareness. Likewise, whether conscious perception and unconscious processing rely on independent mechanisms or lie on a continuum remains a matter of debate. Here, we addressed these issues by comparing the time courses of subjective reports, objective discrimination performance and response priming during meta-contrast masking, under similar attentional demands. We found these to be strikingly similar, suggesting that conscious perception and unconscious processing cannot be dissociated by their time course. Our results also demonstrate that unconscious processing, indexed by response priming, occurs, and that objective discrimination performance indexes the same conscious processes as subjective visibility reports. Finally, our results underscore the role of attention by showing that how much attention the stimulus receives relative to the mask, rather than whether processing is measured by conscious discrimination or by priming, determines the time course of meta-contrast masking.
Neuroscientific studies have shown that brain activity correlated with a decision to move can be observed before a person reports being consciously aware of having made that decision (e.g., Libet, Gleason, Wright, &amp; Pearl, 1983; Soon, Brass, Heinze, &amp; Haynes, 2008). Given that a later event (i.e., conscious awareness) cannot cause an earlier one (i.e., decision-related brain activity), such results have been interpreted as evidence that decisions are made unconsciously (e.g., Libet, 1985). We argue that this interpretation depends upon an all-or-none view of consciousness, and we offer an alternative interpretation of the early decision-related brain activity based on models in which conscious awareness of the decision to move develops gradually up to the level of a reporting criterion. Under this interpretation, the early brain activity reflects sub-criterion levels of awareness rather than complete absence of awareness and thus does not suggest that decisions are made unconsciously.
Deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus (STN-DBS) has acquired a relevant role in the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD). Despite being a safe procedure, it may expose patients to an increased risk to experience cognitive and emotional difficulties. Impairments in emotion recognition, mediated both by facial and prosodic expressions, have been reported in PD patients treated with such procedure. However, it is still unclear whether the STN per se is responsible for such changes or whether others factors like the microlesion produced by the electrode implantation may also play a role. In this study we evaluated facial emotions discrimination and emotions recognition using both facial and prosodic expressions in 12 patients with PD and 13 matched controls. Patients' were tested in four conditions: before surgery, both in on and off medication, and after surgery, respectively few days after STN implantation before turning stimulator on and few months after with stimulation on. We observed that PD patients were impaired in discriminating and recognizing facial emotions, especially disgust, even before DBS implant. Microlesion caused by surgical procedure was found to influence patients' performance on the discrimination task and recognition of sad facial expression while, after a few months of STN stimulation, impaired disgust recognition was again prominent. No impairment in emotional prosody recognition was observed both before and after surgery. Our study confirms that PD patients may experience a deficit in disgust recognition and provides insight into the differential effect of microlesion and stimulation of STN on several tasks assessing emotion recognition.
Meta-analysis and meta-regression were used to evaluate whether evidence to date demonstrates deficits in procedural memory in individuals with specific language impairment (SLI), and to examine reasons for inconsistencies of findings across studies. The Procedural Deficit Hypothesis (PDH) proposes that SLI is largely explained by abnormal functioning of the frontal-basal ganglia circuits that support procedural memory. It has also been suggested that declarative memory can compensate for at least some of the problems observed in individuals with SLI. A number of studies have used Serial Reaction Time (SRT) tasks to investigate procedural learning in SLI. In this report, results from eight studies that collectively examined 186 participants with SLI and 203 typically-developing peers were submitted to a meta-analysis. The average mean effect size was .328 (CI95: .071, .584) and was significant. This suggests SLI is associated with impairments of procedural learning as measured by the SRT task. Differences among individual study effect sizes, examined with meta-regression, indicated that smaller effect sizes were found in studies with older participants, and in studies that had a larger number of trials on the SRT task. The contributions of age and SRT task characteristics to learning are discussed with respect to impaired and compensatory neural mechanisms in SLI.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is associated with neuronal loss, diffuse axonal injury and executive dysfunction. Whereas executive dysfunction has traditionally been associated with prefrontal lesions, ample evidence suggests that those functions requiring behavioral flexibility critically depend on the interaction between frontal cortex, basal ganglia and thalamus. To test whether structural integrity of this fronto-striato-thalamic circuit can account for executive impairments in TBI we automatically segmented the thalamus, putamen and caudate of 25 patients and 21 healthy controls and obtained diffusion weighted images. We assessed components of executive function using the local-global task, which requires inhibition, updating and switching between actions. Shape analysis revealed localized atrophy of the limbic, executive and rostral-motor zones of the basal ganglia, whereas atrophy of the thalami was more global in TBI. This subcortical atrophy was related to white matter microstructural organization in TBI, suggesting that axonal injuries possibly contribute to subcortical volume loss. Global volume of the nuclei showed no clear relationship with task performance. However, the shape analysis revealed that participants with smaller volume of those subregions that have connections with the prefrontal cortex and rostral motor areas showed higher switch costs and mixing costs, and made more errors while switching. These results support the idea that flexible cognitive control over action depends on interactions within the fronto-striato-thalamic circuit.







Parkinson's disease is a common age-related progressive neurodegenerative disorder. Over the last 10 years, advances have been made in our understanding of the etiology of the disease with the greatest insights perhaps coming from genetic studies, including genome-wide association approaches. These large scale studies allow the identification of genomic regions harboring common variants associated to disease risk. Since the first genome-wide association study on sporadic Parkinson's disease performed in 2005, improvements in study design, including the advent of meta-analyses, have allowed the identification of ~21 susceptibility loci. The first loci to be nominated were previously associated to familial PD (SNCA, MAPT, LRRK2) and these have been extensively replicated. For other more recently identified loci (SREBF1, SCARB2, RIT2) independent replication is still warranted. Cumulative risk estimates of associated variants suggest that more loci are still to be discovered. Additional association studies combined with deep re-sequencing of known genome-wide association study loci are necessary to identify the functional variants that drive disease risk. As each of these associated genes and variants are identified they will give insight into the biological pathways involved the etiology of Parkinson's disease. This will ultimately lead to the identification of molecules that can be used as biomarkers for diagnosis and as targets for the development of better, personalized treatment.
The purpose of the study was to evaluate the expression of CD45, CD34, Sca-1 and CD117 in mouse bone marrow, Lin-ve and Lin+ve population. Bone marrow cells were isolated from C57/BL6J mouse and mononuclear population was separated from rest of the cell population. With the help of Magnetic associated cell sorter (MACS), Linve and Lin+ve cells were separated from the bone marrow. The expression of CD45, CD34, Sca1 and CD117 was evaluated in bone marrow, Lin-ve and Lin+ve population by flow cytometry. We found a significant increase in the expression of CD34 and CD117 in Lin-ve as compared to the bone marrow and Lin+ve population. These findings suggest that Lin-ve population has higher expression of stem cell progenitor markers and could be useful for tissue repair and regeneration.
Small multicellular genetic organisms form a central part of modern biological research. Using these small organisms provides significant advantages in genetic tractability, manipulation, lifespan and cost. Although the small size is generally advantageous, it can make procedures such as surgeries both time consuming and labor intensive. Over the past few years there have been dramatic improvements in microfluidic technologies that enable significant improvements in microsurgery and interrogation of small multicellular model organisms.
The initial structural and functional development of visual circuits in reptiles, birds, and mammals happens independent of sensory experience. After eye opening, visual experience further refines and elaborates circuits that are critical for normal visual function. Innate genetic programs that code for gradients of molecules provide gross positional information for developing nerve cells, yet much of the cytoarchitectural complexity and synaptogenesis of neurons depends on calcium influx, neurotransmitter release, and neural activity before the onset of vision. In fact, specific spatiotemporal patterns of neural activity, or 'retinal waves', emerge amidst the development of the earliest connections made between excitable cells in the developing eye. These patterns of spontaneous activity, which have been observed in all amniote retinae examined to date, may be an evolved adaptation for species with long gestational periods before the onset of functional vision, imparting an informational robustness and redundancy to guide development of visual maps across the nervous system. Recent experiments indicate that retinal waves play a crucial role in the development of interconnections between different parts of the visual system, suggesting that these spontaneous patterns serve as a template-matching mechanism to prepare higher-order visually associative circuits for the onset of visuomotor learning and behavior. Key questions for future studies include determining the exact sources and nature of spontaneous activity during development, characterizing the interactions between neural activity and transcriptional gene regulation, and understanding the extent of circuit connectivity governed by retinal waves within and between sensory-motor systems.
The neocortex is a defining feature of the mammalian brain and its expansion is one of the hallmarks of human evolution. Given the complexity of human behavior, it is tempting to think that as a species humans are exclusive compared to other animals. However, comparative studies indicate that human brains follow the same rules of construction and that alterations to the human neocortex take a similar form as in other mammals. Studies from a number of disciplines indicate that many of the morphological specializations associated with the vocal tract, ear and hand were present in early hominins and thus our ancestors had the capacity for speech, language and sophisticated manual abilities, yet much of modern human behavior evolved very recently. In this review, we discuss the possibility that phenotypic changes in modern human brains and behavior may have been mediated by epigenetic mechanisms that allowed for context dependent changes to the cortical phenotype. Further, we consider whether these epigenetic mechanisms may be more readily engaged in humans than in other species in order to rapidly meet the demands of a dynamic environment. We suggest that perhaps it is the extent to which the neocortex incorporates these context dependent alterations that distinguishes humans from other mammals.
Auditory cortical maps have been a long-standing focus of studies that assess the expression, mechanisms, and consequences of sensory plasticity. Here we discuss recent progress in understanding how auditory experience transforms spatially organized sound representations at higher levels of the central auditory pathways. New insights into the mechanisms underlying map changes have been achieved and more refined interpretations of various map plasticity effects and their consequences in terms of behavioral corollaries and learning as well as other cognitive aspects have been offered. The systematic organizational principles of cortical sound processing remain a key aspect in studying and interpreting the role of plasticity in hearing.
Everything the brain knows about the content of the visual world is built from the spiking activity of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs). As the output neurons of the eye, RGCs include 20 different subtypes, each responding best to a specific feature in the visual scene. Here we discuss recent advances in identifying where different RGC subtypes route visual information in the brain, including which targets they connect to and how their organization within those targets influences visual processing. We also highlight examples where causal links have been established between specific RGC subtypes, their maps of central connections and defined aspects of light-mediated behavior and we suggest the use of techniques that stand to extend these sorts of analyses to circuits underlying visual perception.
The hippocampal formation (HF) contains a neural representation of the environment, based on the activity of several classes of neurons whose firing is tuned to an animal's position and orientation in space. Recently, work has begun on understanding when and how this neural map of space emerges during development. Different classes of spatially tuned neurons emerge at different ages, some of them very early during development, before animals have started exploring their environment. The developmental timeline thus far uncovered has yielded insights into both the mechanisms of the ontogeny of the neural code for space, as well as how this system functions in the adult.
The convergent evolution of hearing in insects and vertebrates raises the question about similarity of the central representation of sound in these distant animal groups. Topographic representations of spectral, spatial and temporal cues have been widely described in mammals, but evidence for such maps is scarce in insects. Recent data on insect sound encoding provides evidence for an early integration of sound parameters to form highly-specific representation that predict behavioral output. In mammals, new studies investigating neural representation of perceptual features in behaving animals allow asking similar questions. A comparative approach may help in understanding principles underlying the formation of perceptual categories and behavioral plasticity.
Functional reorganization of the whisker map in rodent barrel cortex has long served as a model for cortical plasticity following changes in sensory experience. Given the heterogeneity of neuronal response properties in neocortex, it has remained unclear how individual neurons in the cortical microcircuit are affected. Novel in vivo imaging and electrophysiology methods allow longitudinal recording of the same neurons' functional properties and therefore have the critical ability to resolve the direction and dynamics of change as plasticity progresses. Tracking sensory responsiveness before and after whisker trimming has uncovered diverse effects in individual neurons, suggesting that longitudinal recording will be essential for elucidating plasticity mechanisms within cortical microcircuits.
Computational brain maps as opposed to maps of receptor surfaces strongly reflect functional neuronal design principles. In echolocating bats, computational maps are established that topographically represent the distance of objects. These target range maps are derived from the temporal delay between emitted call and returning echo and constitute a regular representation of time (chronotopy). Basic features of these maps are innate, and in different bat species the map size and precision varies. An inherent advantage of target range maps is the implementation of mechanisms for lateral inhibition and excitatory feedback. Both can help to focus target ranging depending on the actual echolocation situation. However, these maps are not absolutely necessary for bat echolocation since there are bat species without cortical target-distance maps, which use alternative ensemble computation mechanisms.
A map of sound direction was found in the owl's midbrain more than three decades ago. This finding suggested that the brain reconstructs spatial coordinates to represent them. Subsequent research elucidated the variables used to compute the map. Here we provide a review of the processes leading to its emergence and an updated perspective on how and what information is represented.
Spatial discharge patterns in medial entorhinal cortex consist of grid, head direction, border and spatial-band cells. These firing patterns differ from the single-peaked fields of hippocampal place cells, in that they have well-defined geometries and extend throughout the available space. Such discharge properties could contribute to a metric representation of space. Both functional and anatomical evidence point to principal cell diversity, modularity and columnar organization, but linking entorhinal anatomy and physiology remains challenging. Layer 2 microcircuits consist of pyramidal neurons and a stellate cell network, which lacks recurrent excitation and is coupled by disynaptic inhibition. Intracellular recordings showed that periodic, grid-like firing emerges from depolarization ramps, whereas theta-oscillations determine spike timing. Interference with various inputs to entorhinal cortex abolishes grid activity, often without concomitant loss of hippocampal place activity.
Topographic maps are utilized in many sensory and motor systems to efficiently transfer information between brain regions. The retina's projection to the superior colliculus has served as a model for the identification of molecular cues and mechanistic strategies by which topographic maps are formed. Evidence from both in vitro and in vivo studies points to graded cell surface cues playing a central role, but support for axon-axon competition and selective degeneration have also been advanced recently. In combination with mathematical models, these studies suggest that topographic maps are established using a complex combination of strategies to ensure precise connectivity.
Neurons in the visual system respond to more complex and holistic features at each new stage of processing. Often, these features are organized into continuous maps. Could there be a fundamental link between continuous maps and functional hierarchies? Here, we review recent studies regarding V1 maps providing some of the most noteworthy advances in our understanding of how and why maps exist. In particular, we focus on the common theme that some maps are inherited from the input of parallel pathways, which are then intimately linked to the emergence of new functional properties and their corresponding maps. These results on V1 maps may prove to be a unifying framework for hierarchical representations in the visual cortex.
Astrocytes are a multifunctional cell type in the nervous system that can influence neurons and synapses in numerous ways. Astrocytes have been suggested to play important roles in synapse formation during development, as well as in multiple forms of synaptic plasticity in the developing and adult brain. Astrocytes respond to nearby neural activity with elevations in cytosolic calcium concentration, and in sensory cortex these calcium responses have been shown to be topographically aligned to neuronal sensory maps. Here, we review recent evidence for astrocyte interactions with neural circuits, with particular emphasis on how these interactions may shape the development, arrangement and plasticity of cortical sensory maps.





Cognitive dysfunction characterizes all the various forms of dementia. Evidence is accumulating that all of the progressive neurodegenerative dementias, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), are preceded by years, if not decades, of pathological cognitive decline. The limited effectiveness of the four current medications registered for AD together with the failure of dozens of programmes over the last decade has influenced the decision to evaluate treatment at earlier stages of the disease; even before any cognitive symptoms have appeared. However, it has to be acknowledged that treating mild cognitive impairment (MCI) as a prodrome for AD has also had very limited success. Nonetheless a more important problem in MCI research, and dementia in general, has to be laid at the door of the limited effectiveness of the cognitive tests employed. This problem will become even more severe for the latest research direction of treating preclinical AD because such individuals will have levels of cognitive abilities which are in the normal range; and thus many of the scales currently used in dementia research will not be sufficiently demanding to identify change over time. This paper reviews and discusses the methodology and instruments available for research and clinical practice in this major area; with a focus on the challenges involved in test selection and evaluation.
Functional imaging methods such as fMRI have been widely used to gain greater understanding of brain circuitry abnormalities in CNS disorders and their underlying neurochemical basis. Findings suggest that: (1) drugs with known clinical efficacy have consistent effects on disease relevant brain circuitry, (2) brain activation changes at baseline or early drug effects on brain activity can predict long-term efficacy; and (3) fMRI together with pharmacological challenges could serve as experimental models of disease phenotypes and be used for screening novel drugs. Together, these observations suggest that drug related modulation of disease relevant brain circuitry may serve as a promising biomarker/method for use in drug discovery to demonstrate target engagement, differential efficacy, dose-response relationships, and prediction of clinically relevant changes.
Clinical Pharmacology in Neuroscience Drug Discovery in recent years has concentrated on First Time in Human safety and pharmacokinetics. The more traditional pharmacological research in humans has been reduced mainly as a response to the difficulty of developing human pharmacology models in neuroscience diseases. As a consequence, opportunities are being missed to aid in target selection and in target validation. The decision of big Pharma to reduce investment from the Neurosciences has had implications for clinical pharmacologists in this area. It remains to be seen whether academia, government laboratories and contract houses will respond to the challenge of carrying out increased Clinical Pharmacology in the Neurosciences.
Stroke and multiple sclerosis (MS) illustrate how clinical imaging can facilitate early phase drug development and most effective medicine use in the clinic. Imaging has enhanced understanding of the dynamics of evolution of disease pathophysiology, better defining treatment targets. Imaging measures can enable stratification of patients for clinical trials and for most cost-effective use in the clinic. In MS, imaging has allowed smaller Phase II clinical trials and contributed to medicine differentiation. It also has led to consideration of suppression of inflammation and neurodegeneration as meaningfully distinct pharmacodynamic concepts. Similar imaging measures can be used in preclinical and clinical studies. Testing translational pharmacological hypotheses using clinical imaging more explicitly could improve the success of the next generation of stroke therapeutics.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a chronic neurodegenerative disease leading to cognitive decline, dementia, and ultimately death. Despite extensive R&amp;D efforts, there are no diseases modifying treatments for AD available. The stage in which patients receive a clinical diagnosis of probable AD may be too late for disease modifying pharmacotherapy. Prevention strategies may be required to successfully tackle AD. Preclinical AD applies to over half of all healthy elderly subjects and manifests by signs of amyloid deposition and/or neuronal injury in the brain, preceding the stage in which symptoms of dementia, cognitive and functional impairment become observable. Prevention trials in preclinical AD require longer and larger clinical trials using biomarkers and cognitive endpoints, which requires collaboration across academia, government and industry.
Given the lack of fundamental knowledge about the causes and pathophysiology of depression, it is a challenge for Phase I in antidepressant development to efficiently and thoroughly test new drugs. Initiation of Phase I should always be preceded by a careful consideration of what is known about the target and the molecule. While some early indicators of efficacy, such as the Emotional Test Battery, EEG markers, and fMRI correlates of anhedonia are available, further work is needed for their full incorporation in Phase I. Phase I studies of antidepressants should incorporate new measures and methods to the extent possible, and have the freedom to explore new hypotheses and move beyond the predetermined and inflexible study designs of traditional Phase I studies.
Schizophrenia might be considered a neurodevelopmental disease. However, the fundamental process(es) associated with this disease remain(s) uncertain. Many lines of evidence suggest that schizophrenia is associated with excessive stimulation of dopamine D2 receptors in the associative striatum, with a lack of stimulation of dopamine D1 receptors in prefrontal cortex, and with modifications in prefrontal neuronal connectivity involving glutamate transmission at N-methyl aspartate (NMDA) receptors. This article, whilst briefly discussing the current knowledge of the disease, mainly concentrates on the NMDA hypofunction hypothesis. However, there are also potential consequences for a Dopamine imbalance on NMDA function. Thus, it is proposed that schizophrenia has a complex aetiology associated with strongly interconnected aberrations of dopamine and glutamate transmission.
Occipital nerve stimulation may be effective in treating chronic migraine. Six studies, including three double-blind studies, were performed, with five showing evidence of benefit. However, of the three randomized, controlled trials, none has met a primary endpoint successfully. A separate study suggested a benefit for combined supraorbital and greater occipital nerve stimulation.
The identification of autism spectrum disorders has increased dramatically over the past decade, with the latest estimates indicating prevalence as high as 1 in 54 boys. There is greater awareness of medical conditions that co-occur with autism and expansion of treatment options. Closer scrutiny has led to refinement of the diagnostic criteria, and there have been advances in genetics examining potential causal factors. Transition to adulthood is an area of growing concern, and professionals and families require guidance on this issue. This article summarizes the proceedings of the Autism Speaks conference on Treating the Whole Person with Autism: Care across the Lifespan. The conference was organized with the intent of providing a forum for both families and professionals to learn about the most current research in the field. Dr. Sue Swedo provides important background information regarding the changes in the diagnostic criteria for autism spectrum disorders. She particularly deals with the concerns of individuals and families that their autism diagnosis may change. Recommendations for genetic testing and its interpretation are provided by Dr. David Miller. His discussion helps make sense of the utility of genetic testing for ASD, along with demonstration of the complexity of determining which genetic factors are doing what and through which pathways. Dr. Jeremy Veenstra-VanderWeele provides useful background information on how medicines are initially identified and for what purpose and goes on to describe the present and future treatments in pharmacology. Medical issues are addressed by Dr. Paul Carbone, especially the coordination of comprehensive services through the medical home model of care. Dr. Julie Lounds Taylor concludes with guidance on preparation for adulthood, a topic of great importance to families as their child matures and for the professionals who will help guide this transition.


The purpose of this study was to examine the prevalence of Internet addiction in a nationally representative sample of Chinese elementary and middle school students and to investigate Internet addiction among Internet users with different usages. The data were from the National Children's Study of China (NCSC) in which 24,013 fourth- to ninth-grade students were recruited from 100 counties in 31 provinces in China. Only 54.2% of the students had accessed the Internet. According to the criteria of Young's Diagnostic Questionnaire (YDQ), an eight-item instrument, the prevalence of Internet addiction in the total sample was 6.3%, and among Internet users was 11.7%. Among the Internet users, males (14.8%) and rural students (12.1%) reported Internet addiction more than females (7.0%) and urban students (10.6%). The percentage of Internet addicts in elementary school students (11.5%) was not significantly lower than the percentage of middle school students (11.9%). There was no statistically significant difference between the four geographical regions (9.6%, 11.5%, 12.3%, 11.1%) characterized by different levels of economy, health, education, and social environment. As the frequency of Internet use and time spent online per week increased, the percentage of Internet addicts increased. When considering the location and purpose of Internet use, the percentage of Internet addicts was highest in adolescents typically surfing in Internet cafes (18.1%) and playing Internet games (22.5%).



Proneural transcription factors drive the generation of specialized neurons during nervous system development, and their dynamic expression pattern is critical to their function. The activation of the proneural gene atonal (ato) in the Drosophila eye disc epithelium represents a critical step in the transition from retinal progenitor cell to developing photoreceptor neuron. We show here that the onset of ato transcription depends on two distant enhancers that function differently in subsets of retinal progenitor cells. A detailed analysis of the crosstalk between these enhancers identifies a critical role for three binding sites for the Retinal Determination factors Eyeless (Ey) and Sine oculis (So). We show how these sites interact to induce ato expression in distinct regions of the eye field and confirm them to be occupied by endogenous Ey and So proteins in vivo. Our study suggests that Ey and So operate differently through the same 3' cis-regulatory sites in distinct populations of retinal progenitors.


N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) antibody encephalitis is a well-recognized clinico-immunological syndrome that presents with a movement disorder, cognitive decline, psychiatric symptoms, and epileptic seizures. A pure monosymptomatic presentation is rare; however, some patients present predominantly with a movement disorder in the absence of encephalopathy. Here, we describe three paediatric patients with an NMDAR antibody-mediated movement disorder: a 5-year-old female with acute onset hemichorea, a 10-year-old female with generalized chorea, and a 12-year-old male with abdominal myoclonus. These patients did not develop the characteristic encephalopathy syndrome seen in NMDAR encephalitis, but all three had other associated subtle cognitive deficits. The patients demonstrated good responses to immunotherapy.



Autism spectrum disorders (ASD) are associated with mutations in a host of genes including a number that function in synaptic transmission. Phelan McDermid syndrome involves mutations in SHANK3 which encodes a protein that forms a scaffold for glutamate receptors at the synapse. SHANK3 is one of the genes that underpins the synaptic hypothesis for ASD. We discuss this hypothesis with a view to the broader context of ASD and with special emphasis on highly penetrant genetic disorders including Shankopathies. We propose a blueprint for near and longer-term goals for fundamental and translational research on Shankopathies.
Rett syndrome (RTT) is a disorder that is caused in the majority of cases by mutations in the gene methyl-CpG-binding protein-2 (MeCP2). Children with RTT are generally characterized by normal development up to the first year and a half of age, after which they undergo a rapid regression marked by a deceleration of head growth, the onset of stereotyped hand movements, irregular breathing, and seizures. Animal models of RTT with good construct and face validity are available. Their analysis showed that homeostatic regulation of MeCP2 gene is necessary for normal CNS functioning and that multiple complex pathways involving different neuronal and glial cell types are disrupted in RTT models. However, it is increasingly clear that RTT pathogenetic mechanisms converge at synaptic level impairing synaptic transmission and plasticity. We review novel findings showing how specific synaptic mechanisms and related signaling pathways are affected in RTT models.
Fragile X Syndrome (FXS) is considered the most common form of inherited intellectual disability. It is caused by reductions in the expression level or function of a single protein, the Fragile X Mental Retardation Protein (FMRP), a translational regulator which binds to approximately 4% of brain messenger RNAs. Accumulating evidence suggests that FXS is a complex disorder of cognition, involving interactions between genetic and environmental influences, leading to difficulties in acquiring key life skills including motor skills, language, and proper social behaviors. Since many FXS patients also present with one or more features of autism spectrum disorders (ASDs), insights gained from studying the monogenic basis of FXS could pave the way to a greater understanding of underlying features of multigenic ASDs. Here we present an overview of the FXS and FMRP field with the goal of demonstrating how loss of a single protein involved in translational control affects multiple stages of brain development and leads to debilitating consequences on human cognition. We also focus on studies which have rescued or improved FXS symptoms in mice using genetic or therapeutic approaches to reduce protein expression. We end with a brief description of how deficits in translational control are implicated in FXS and certain cases of ASDs, with many recent studies demonstrating that ASDs are likely caused by increases or decreases in the levels of certain key synaptic proteins. The study of FXS and its underlying single genetic cause offers an invaluable opportunity to study how a single gene influences brain development and behavior.
A number of mutated genes that code for proteins concerned with brain synapse function and circuit formation have been identified in patients affected by intellectual disability (ID) syndromes over the past 15 years. These genes are involved in synapse formation and plasticity, the regulation of dendritic spine morphology, the regulation of the synaptic cytoskeleton, the synthesis and degradation of specific synapse proteins, and the control of correct balance between excitatory and inhibitory synapses. In most of the cases, even mild alterations in synapse morphology, function, and balance give rise to mild or severe IDs. These studies provided a rationale for the development of pharmacological agents that are able to counteract functional synaptic anomalies and potentially improve the symptoms of some of these conditions. This review summarizes recent findings on the functions of some of the genes responsible for ID syndromes and some of the new potential pharmacological treatments for these diseases.

The ability to discriminate and identify people by their voice is important for social interaction in humans. In early development, learning to discriminate important differences in a number of socially relevant stimuli, such as phonemes and faces, has been shown to follow a common pattern of experience-driven perceptual narrowing, where the discrimination of native stimuli improves, while the discrimination of foreign stimuli worsens. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether similar perceptual narrowing occurs for discriminating individuals by voice. We tested the ability of English-speaking adults and English-learning 6- and 12-month-olds to discriminate either native-species (human) or foreign-species (rhesus monkey [Macaca mulatta]) individuals by their vocalizations. Between 6 and 12 months of age, the ability to discriminate monkey voices decreased significantly and there was a non-significant trend for improved ability to discriminate human voices. The results support the hypothesis of experience-driven perceptual narrowing for voice individuation during the first year after birth.

The present study tested Japanese 4.5- and 10-month old infants' ability to discriminate three German vowel pairs, none of which are contrastive in Japanese, using a visual habituation-dishabituation paradigm. Japanese adults' discrimination of the same pairs was also tested. The results revealed that Japanese 4.5-month old infants discriminated the German /bu:k/-/by:k/ contrast, but they showed no evidence of discriminating the /bi:k/-/be:k/ or /bu:k/-/bo:k/ contrasts. Japanese 10-month old infants, on the other hand, discriminated the German /bi:k/-/be:k/ contrast, while they showed no evidence of discriminating the /bu:k/-/by:k/ or /bu:k/-/bo:k/ contrasts. Japanese adults, in contrast, were highly accurate in their discrimination of all of the pairs. The results indicate that discrimination of non-native contrasts is not always easy even for young infants, and that their ability to discriminate non-native contrasts can improve with age even when they receive no exposure to a language in which the given contrast is phonemic.
The capacity to ascribe goals and intentions to others is a fundamental step in child cognitive development. The aim of the present study was to assess the age at which these capabilities are acquired in typically developing children. Two experiments were carried out. In the first experiment, 4 groups of children (age range = 3 years 2 months-7 years 11 months) were shown pictures representing hand-object interactions and asked what the individual was doing (what task) and why (why task). In the why task, observed handgrip could be either congruent with the most typical action performed with that object (e.g., to drink in the case of a mug) or corresponding to the act of putting away the object. In the second experiment, children saw pictures showing a handgrip either within a context suggesting the most typical use of the object or its being put away. Results showed that by 3-4 years, children are able to state the goal relatedness of an observed motor act (what understanding), whereas the ability to report the intention underlying it (why understanding) is a later and gradual acquisition, reaching a high performance by 6-7 years. These results, besides their intrinsic value, provide an important baseline for comparisons with studies on developmental disorders, also highlighting the relevance of distinguishing what and why understanding.
The activation of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) affects multiple aspects of neural precursor behaviour, including proliferation and migration. Telencephalic precursors acquire EGF responsiveness and upregulate EGFR expression at late stages of development. The events regulating this process and its significance are still unclear. We here show that in the developing and postnatal hippocampus (HP), growth/differentiation factor (GDF) 15 and EGFR are co-expressed in primitive precursors as well as in more differentiated cells. We also provide evidence that GDF15 promotes responsiveness to EGF and EGFR expression in hippocampal precursors through a mechanism that requires active CXC chemokine receptor (CXCR) 4. Besides EGFR expression, GDF15 ablation also leads to decreased proliferation and migration. In particular, lack of GDF15 impairs both processes in the cornu ammonis (CA) 1 and only proliferation in the dentate gyrus (DG). Importantly, migration and proliferation in the mutant HP were altered only perinatally, when EGFR expression was also affected. These data suggest that GDF15 regulates migration and proliferation by promoting EGFR signalling in the perinatal HP and represent a first description of a functional role for GDF15 in the developing telencephalon.
In many growing tissues, slowly dividing stem cells give rise to rapidly proliferating progenitors that eventually exit the cell cycle and differentiate. Growth rates are limited by nutrient availability, but it is unclear which steps of the proliferation-differentiation programme are particularly sensitive to fuel supplies. We examined how nutrient deprivation (ND) affects stem and progenitor cells in the ciliary marginal zone (CMZ) of the amphibian retina, a well-characterised neurogenic niche. We show that ND specifically blocks the proliferation and differentiation of progenitor cells through an mTOR-mediated mechanism. By contrast, the identity and proliferation of retinal stem cells are insensitive to ND and mTOR inhibition. Re-feeding starved retinas in vitro rescues both proliferation and differentiation, and activation of mTOR is sufficient to stimulate differentiation even in ND retinas. These results suggest that an mTOR-mediated restriction point operates in vivo to couple nutrient abundance to the proliferation and differentiation programme in retinal progenitor cells.
The architectures of dendritic trees are crucial for the wiring and function of neuronal circuits because they determine coverage of receptive territories, as well as the nature and strength of sensory or synaptic inputs. Here, we describe a cell-intrinsic pathway sculpting dendritic arborization (da) neurons in Drosophila that requires Longitudinals Lacking (Lola), a BTB/POZ transcription factor, and its control of the F-actin cytoskeleton through Spire (Spir), an actin nucleation protein. Loss of Lola from da neurons reduced the overall length of dendritic arbors, increased the expression of Spir, and produced inappropriate F-actin-rich dendrites at positions too near the cell soma. Selective removal of Lola from only class IV da neurons decreased the evasive responses of larvae to nociception. The increased Spir expression contributed to the abnormal F-actin-rich dendrites and the decreased nocifensive responses because both were suppressed by reduced dose of Spir. Thus, an important role of Lola is to limit expression of Spir to appropriate levels within da neurons. We found Spir to be expressed in dendritic arbors and to be important for their development. Removal of Spir from class IV da neurons reduced F-actin levels and total branch number, shifted the position of greatest branch density away from the cell soma, and compromised nocifensive behavior. We conclude that the Lola-Spir pathway is crucial for the spatial arrangement of branches within dendritic trees and for neural circuit function because it provides balanced control of the F-actin cytoskeleton.

Nutrient-sensitive neurons [to glucose and fatty acids (FAs)] are present at many sites throughout the brain, including the hypothalamus and brain stem, and play a key role in the neural control of energy and glucose homoeostasis. Through their neuronal output, FAs can modulate feeding behaviour as well as insulin secretion and activity. Central administration of oleate, for example, inhibits food intake and glucose production in rats. This suggests that daily variations in plasma FA concentrations could be detected by the central nervous system as a signal that contributes to regulation of energy balance. At the cellular level, subpopulations of neurons in the ventromedial and arcuate hypothalamic nuclei are selectively either inhibited or activated by FAs. Possible molecular effectors of these FA effects most likely include the chloride and potassium ion channels. While intracellular metabolism and activation of the ATP-sensitive K(+) channels appear to be necessary for some signalling effects of FAs, at least half the FA responses in ventromedial hypothalamic neurons are mediated by interaction with fatty acid translocase (FAT)/CD36, an FA transporter/receptor that does not require intracellular metabolism to activate downstream signalling. Thus, FAs and their metabolites can modulate neuronal activity by directly monitoring the ongoing fuel availability for brain nutrient-sensing neurons involved in the regulation of energy and glucose homoeostasis. Besides these physiological effects, FA overload or metabolic dysfunction may also impair neural control of energy homoeostasis and contribute to obesity and/or type 2 diabetes in predisposed subjects.






The aim of the present study was to investigate whether reading failure in the context of an orthography of intermediate consistency is linked to inefficient use of the lexical orthographic reading procedure. The performance of typically developing and dyslexic Portuguese-speaking children was examined in a lexical decision task, where the stimulus lexicality, word frequency and length were manipulated. Both lexicality and length effects were larger in the dyslexic group than in controls, although the interaction between group and frequency disappeared when the data were transformed to control for general performance factors. Children with dyslexia were influenced in lexical decision making by the stimulus length of words and pseudowords, whereas age-matched controls were influenced by the length of pseudowords only. These findings suggest that non-impaired readers rely mainly on lexical orthographic information, but children with dyslexia preferentially use the phonological decoding procedure--albeit poorly--most likely because they struggle to process orthographic inputs as a whole such as controls do. Accordingly, dyslexic children showed significantly poorer performance than controls for all types of stimuli, including words that could be considered over-learned, such as high-frequency words. This suggests that their orthographic lexical entries are less established in the orthographic lexicon.


Drosophila larval brain neuroblasts divide asymmetrically to balance between self-renewal and differentiation. Here, we demonstrate that the SCF(Slimb) E3 ubiquitin ligase complex, which is composed of Cul1, SkpA, Roc1a and the F-box protein Supernumerary limbs (Slimb), inhibits ectopic neuroblast formation and regulates asymmetric division of neuroblasts. Hyperactivation of Akt leads to similar neuroblast overgrowth and defects in asymmetric division. Slimb associates with Akt in a protein complex, and SCF(S)(limb) acts through SAK and Akt to inhibit neuroblast overgrowth. Moreover, Beta-transducin repeat containing, the human ortholog of Slimb, is frequently deleted in highly aggressive gliomas, suggesting a conserved tumor suppressor-like function.
An important question in emotion research is what elicits emotions and causes variations in their quality and intensity. Appraisal theories propose a cognitive process through which stimuli are evaluated on a number of different criteria. The combination of results on these criteria determines which specific emotion is elicited. In the present study, we addressed several questions regarding the mechanisms underlying this process, specifically whether appraisal criteria are processed (a) in a fixed sequence, (b) independently of each other, and (c) by different neural structures or circuits. Two appraisal criteria, stimulus novelty and pleasantness, were manipulated with a 3-stimulus oddball paradigm with affective pictures. Electroencephalographic (EEG) markers for the appraisal processes were distinguished using a spatiotemporal clustering analysis. Consistent with theories that assume a fixed sequence of the appraisal process, the analyses revealed early effects of novelty on global field power and the topographical pattern of EEG activity, followed in time by effects involving pleasantness. Moreover, both measures showed significant interactions of novelty and pleasantness in late processing stages (650 ms-800 ms), indicating that the processing of pleasantness depends on the preceding appraisal of novelty. The results of spatiotemporal clustering suggest that the late processing of highly relevant stimuli is not based on a single mechanism, but consists of the initial activation of distinct neural processes to evaluate novel stimuli, followed by activation of different neural mechanisms for the combined evaluation of both novel and highly valenced (i.e., unpleasant or pleasant) stimuli (a distinction that is not apparent in conventional event-related potential measures).
It is well established that emotion recognition of facial expressions declines with age, but evidence for age-related differences in vocal emotions is more limited. This is especially true for nonverbal vocalizations such as laughter, sobs, or sighs. In this study, 43 younger adults (M = 22 years) and 43 older ones (M = 61.4 years) provided multiple emotion ratings of nonverbal emotional vocalizations. Contrasting with previous research, which often includes only one positive emotion (happiness) versus several negative ones, we examined 4 positive and 4 negative emotions: achievement/triumph, amusement, pleasure, relief, anger, disgust, fear, and sadness. We controlled for hearing loss and assessed general cognitive decline, cognitive control, verbal intelligence, working memory, current affect, emotion regulation, and personality. Older adults were less sensitive than younger ones to the intended vocal emotions, as indicated by decrements in ratings on the intended emotion scales and accuracy. These effects were similar for positive and negative emotions, and they were independent of age-related differences in cognitive, affective, and personality measures. Regression analyses revealed that younger and older participants' responses could be predicted from the acoustic properties of the temporal, intensity, fundamental frequency, and spectral profile of the vocalizations. The two groups were similarly efficient in using the acoustic cues, but there were differences in the patterns of emotion-specific predictors. This study suggests that ageing produces specific changes on the processing of nonverbal vocalizations. That decrements were not attenuated for positive emotions indicates that they cannot be explained by a positivity effect in older adults.
There is an ongoing debate concerning the extent to which emotional faces automatically attract attention. Using a single-target Rapid Serial Visual Presentation (RSVP) methodology, it has been found that presentation of task-irrelevant positive or negative emotionally salient stimuli (e.g., negative scenes or erotic pictures) results in a temporary inability to process target stimuli (emotion-induced blindness). In the present study, we sought to examine emotion-induced blindness effects for negative (angry) and positive (happy) facial expressions. Interestingly, task-irrelevant emotional facial expressions facilitated, rather than impaired, target detection when presented in close temporal proximity of the target. Similar facilitation effects were absent for neutral faces or rotated neutral faces that were both included as control stimuli. These results indicate a distinct temporal processing of emotional facial expressions, which accords well with the signal value of emotional expressions in interpersonal situations.



The hypothalamic arcuate nucleus (ARH) controls rat feeding behavior in part through peptidergic neurons projecting to the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVH). Hindbrain catecholaminergic (CA) neurons innervate both the PVH and ARH, and ablation of CA afferents to PVH neuroendocrine neurons prevents them from mounting cellular responses to systemic metabolic challenges such as insulin or 2-deoxy-d-glucose (2-DG). Here, we asked whether ablating CA afferents also limits their ARH responses to the same challenges or alters ARH connectivity with the PVH. We examined ARH neurons for three features: (1) CA afferents, visualized by dopamine--hydroxylase (DBH)- immunoreactivity; (2) activation by systemic metabolic challenge, as measured by increased numbers of neurons immunoreactive (ir) for phosphorylated ERK1/2 (pERK1/2); and (3) density of PVH-targeted axons immunoreactive for the feeding control peptides Agouti-related peptide and -melanocyte-stimulating hormone (MSH). Loss of PVH DBH immunoreactivity resulted in concomitant ARH reductions of DBH-ir and pERK1/2-ir neurons in the medial ARH, where AgRP neurons are enriched. In contrast, pERK1/2 immunoreactivity after systemic metabolic challenge was absent in MSH-ir ARH neurons. Yet surprisingly, axonal MSH immunoreactivity in the PVH was markedly increased in CA-ablated animals. These results indicate that (1) intrinsic ARH activity is insufficient to recruit pERK1/2-ir ARH neurons during systemic metabolic challenges (rather, hindbrain-originating CA neurons are required); and (2) rats may compensate for a loss of CA innervation to the ARH and PVH by increased expression of MSH. These findings highlight the existence of a hierarchical dependence for ARH responses to neural and humoral signals that influence feeding behavior and metabolism.








Complex auditory hallucinations are often characterized by hearing voices and are then called auditory verbal hallucinations (AVHs). While AVHs have been extensively investigated in psychiatric patients suffering from schizophrenia, reports from neurological patients are rare and, in most cases, incomplete. Here, we characterize AVHs in 9 patients suffering from pharmacoresistant epilepsy by analyzing the phenomenology of AVHs and patients' neuropsychological and lesion profiles. From a cohort of 352 consecutively examined patients with epilepsy, 9 patients suffering AVHs were identified and studied by means of a semistructured interview, neuropsychological tests, and multimodal imaging, relying on a combination of functional and structural neuroimaging data and surface and intracranial EEG. We found that AVHs in patients with epilepsy were associated with prevalent language deficits and damage to posterior language areas and basal language areas in the left temporal cortex. Auditory verbal hallucinations, most of the times, consisted in hearing a single voice of the same gender and language as the patient and had specific spatial features, being, most of the times, perceived in the external space, contralateral to the lesion. We argue that the consistent location of AVHs in the contralesional external space, the prominence of associated language deficits, and the prevalence of lesions to the posterior temporal language areas characterize AVHs of neurological origin, distinguishing them from those of psychiatric origin.

The current definition of epilepsy emphasizes the importance of cognitive impairment for a complete understanding of the disorder. Cognitive deficits have distinct functional manifestations that differentially impact the daily life experiences of children and adolescents with epilepsy and are a particular concern as they frequently impair academic performance. In particular, memory impairment and executive dysfunction are common disabilities in adults with temporal lobe epilepsy but are less easily recognized and studied in the pediatric population. This review focuses on the consequences of early-onset temporal lobe epilepsy for the development of memory and executive function and discusses current theories to explain these deficits.
It has been long recognized that there is more to epilepsy than seizures. The prevalence of such neurobehavioral abnormalities as cognitive and mood disorders, autism spectrum disorder, and attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is significantly higher among patients with epilepsy than in the general population. A long-held view that comorbidities of epilepsy represent mere epiphenomena of seizures has undergone substantial transformation during the past decade, as emerging clinical evidence and experimental evidence suggest the involvement of specific neurobiological mechanisms in the evolution of neurobehavioral deficits in patients with epilepsy. Developmental aspects of both epilepsy and its comorbidities, as well as the frequently reported reciprocal connection between these disorders, both add other dimensions to the already complex problem. In light of progress in effective seizure management in many patients with epilepsy, the importance of neurobehavioral comorbidities has become acute, as the latter are frequently more detrimental to patients' quality of life compared with seizures. This calls for a serious increase in efforts to effectively predict, manage, and ideally cure these comorbidities. Coordinated multicenter clinical, translational, and basic research studies focusing on epidemiology, neuropsychology, neurophysiology, imaging, genetics, epigenetics, and pharmacology of neurobehavioral comorbidities of epilepsy are absolutely instrumental for ensuring tangible progress in the field. Clinical research should focus more on new-onset epilepsy and put particular emphasis on longitudinal studies in large cohorts of patients and groups at risk, while translational research should primarily focus on the development of valid preclinical systems which would allow investigating the fundamental mechanism of epilepsy comorbidities. The final goal of the described research efforts would lie in producing an armamentarium of evidence-based diagnostic tools and therapeutic interventions which would at minimum mitigate and at maximum prevent or abolish neurobehavioral comorbidities of epilepsy and, thus, improve the quality of life of those patients with epilepsy who suffer from the said comorbidities.
The objective of this study was to test for the measurement invariance of the Attention and Thought Problems subscales of the Child Behavior Checklist (CBCL) and Youth Self-Report (YSR) in a population-based sample of adolescents with and without epilepsy. Data were obtained from the 14-year follow-up of the Mater University Study of Pregnancy in which 33 adolescents with epilepsy and 1068 healthy controls were included for analysis. Confirmatory factor analysis was used to test for measurement invariance between adolescents with and without epilepsy. Structural equation modeling was used to test for group differences in attention and thought problems as measured with the CBCL and YSR. Measurement invariance was demonstrated for the original CBCL Attention Problems and YSR Thought Problems. After the removal of ambiguous items (&quot;confused&quot; and &quot;daydreams&quot;), measurement invariance was established for the YSR Attention Problems. The original and reduced CBCL Thought Problems were noninvariant. Adolescents with epilepsy had significantly more symptoms of behavioral problems on the CBCL Attention Problems, =0.51, p=0.002, compared with healthy controls. In contrast, no significant differences were found for the YSR Attention and Thought Problems, =-0.11, p=0.417 and =-0.20, p=0.116, respectively. In this population-based sample of adolescents with epilepsy, the CBCL Attention Problems and YSR Thought Problems appear to be valid measures of behavioral problems, whereas the YSR Attention Problems was valid only after the removal of ambiguous items. Replication of these findings in clinical samples of adolescents with epilepsy that overcome the limitations of the current study is warranted.
The aim of this study was to understand the relationship between IQ and glucose metabolism in brain cells in a wide variety of subjects with epilepsy. The study participants were 78 children with epilepsy and 15 healthy children for comparison. All participants were administered the Chinese Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children (C-WISC). The verbal intelligence quotient (VIQ), performance intelligence quotient (PIQ), and full-scale intelligence quotient (FIQ) were compared between children with epilepsy and typically developing children. Seventy-eight patients underwent interictal positron emission computed tomography (PET) using 2-deoxy-2[(18)F]fluoro-d-glucose (FDG) as the tracer for evaluating brain glucose metabolism. Verbal intelligence quotient, PIQ, and FIQ based on the C-WISC were significantly lower in children with epilepsy than those in the healthy comparison group (P&lt;0.001, P=0.001, and P&lt;0.001, respectively). The IQ of patients with normal metabolism, unifocal abnormal hypometabolism, and multifocal abnormal hypometabolism determined by PET differed significantly. The extent of the abnormal hypometabolism was negatively correlated with the FIQ (rs=-0.549, P&lt;0.001). In patients with lateralized hypometabolism based on PET, the VIQ/PIQ discrepancy scores (|VIQ-PIQ|15 points) differed significantly between the left hemisphere abnormal hypometabolism and right hemisphere abnormal hypometabolism subgroups, with negative values in the left and positive values in the right subgroups (P=0.004). In conclusion, brain metabolic abnormalities are correlated with IQ, and performing interictal PET along with C-WISC can better assess the extent of severity of cognitive impairment and VIQ/PIQ discrepancy.

Transient epileptic amnesia (TEA) is a distinctive syndrome and comprises episodic transient amnesia with an epileptic basis, without impairment of other aspects of cognitive function. Additional interictal memory deficits are common in TEA. An epileptic origin, after other etiologies have been excluded, should be considered and carefully investigated in patients complaining of isolated memory disturbances, particularly with recurrent short-lasting amnesic attacks. In all suspected cases of epilepsy, a detailed clinical history is of paramount importance, but ancillary tests including EEG and MRI could be very helpful. Transient epileptic amnesia is typically a benign and treatable condition. Future studies should investigate the exact mechanism(s) of this unique syndrome.
We evaluated several commonly used screening instruments for the detection of mood disorders, anxiety disorders, and attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). These were compared to a criterion-based standardized questionnaire, the Diagnostic Interview Survey (DIS)-IV, designed to make DSM-IV-TR diagnoses in the community-based study of childhood-onset epilepsy. The DIS-IV was administered to young adult cases with epilepsy at a 15-year follow-up assessment and compared to symptom screens administered at the same visit, and at a previous 9-year assessment. Among cases, the specificity of the DIS-IV ranged from 0.77 to 0.99 and the predictive value of a negative psychiatric diagnosis was similarly high. Sensitivity was lower, ranging from 0 to 0.77, with correspondingly low predictive value of a positive diagnosis. Symptom-based instruments assess current symptom burden and are useful for determining associations with ongoing seizures or quality of life. Criterion-based standardized interviews, such as the DIS-IV, provide psychiatric diagnoses over the lifetime, which is most useful in studies of epilepsy genetics and studies of comorbidities and prognosis of epilepsy.
Psychogenic seizures (PSs) convincingly mimic seizure phenomena but with no underlying epileptic activity. However, not much is known about their neurophysiological basis. We had the rare opportunity to analyze intracranial brain recordings of PSs occurring besides epileptic seizures (ESs), which identified distinct frequency changes over the parietal cortex. For further validation, we applied topographic frequency analysis to two other patients who presented PSs and ESs during long-term monitoring. The analysis revealed a power decrease in the theta band at the posterior parietal cortex in all three patients during PSs but not during ESs. These changes may reflect disturbed self-referential processing associated with some PSs.
Predicting postsurgery memory decline is crucial to clinical decision-making for individuals with mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (mTLE) who are candidates for temporal lobe excisions. Extensive neuropsychological testing is critical to assess risk, but the numerous test scores it produces can make deriving a formal prediction of cognitive change quite complex. In order to benefit from the information contained in comprehensive memory assessment, we used principal component analysis (PCA) to simplify neuropsychological test scores (presurgical and pre- to postsurgical change) obtained from a cohort of 56 patients with mTLE into a few easily interpretable latent components. We next performed discriminant analyses using presurgery latent components to categorize seizure laterality and then regression analyses to assess how well presurgery latent components could predict postsurgery memory decline. Finally, we validated the predictive power of these regression models in an independent sample of 18 patients with mTLE. Principal component analysis identified three significant latent components that reflected IQ, verbal memory, and visuospatial memory, respectively. Together, the presurgery verbal and visuospatial memory components classified 80% of patients with mTLE correctly according to their seizure laterality. Furthermore, the presurgery verbal memory component predicted postsurgery verbal memory decline, while the presurgery visuospatial memory component predicted visuospatial memory decline. These regression models also predicted postsurgery memory decline successfully in the independent cohort of patients with mTLE. Our results demonstrate the value of data reduction techniques in identifying cognitive metrics that can characterize laterality of damage and risk of postoperative decline.
Epilepsy is the most common neurological disorder in the world and although there are various treatment options available, 30% of patients remain intractable. Current antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) provide efficacy primarily by decreasing excitation or increasing inhibition in the seizing brain. Isovaline, a unique amino acid, was shown to attenuate seizure-like events (SLEs) in two in vitro hippocampal seizure models by selectively increasing the activity of interneurons, but not pyramidal neurons. Here, we demonstrate that 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) induced hippocampal epileptiform activity in vivo and seizing behavior, which were attenuated with intravenous (IV) isovaline treatment. We are the first to demonstrate that isovaline has potential as an AED and a conceptual framework for managing epilepsy could revolve around its novel mechanism of action.

Novel treatments for epilepsy are necessary because many epilepsy patients are resistant to medication. Metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs), specifically mGluR 2 and 3, may serve as antiepileptic drug targets because of their role in controlling synaptic release. In this study, we administered a Group 2 mGluR agonist, LY379268, one of two mGluR2-specific positive allosteric modulators, BINA or CBiPES, or a cocktail of both BINA and LY379268 in a series of experiments using the pilocarpine model of SE. In one study, groups received treatments 15 min prior to pilocarpine, while in a second study groups received treatments after SE had been initiated to determine whether the drugs could reduce development and progression of SE. We measured bouts of stage 5 seizures, latency to the first seizure, and the maximum Racine score to characterize the seizure severity. We analyzed mouse EEG with implanted electrodes using a power analysis. We found that pretreatment and posttreatment with LY379268 was effective at reducing both behavioral correlates and power in EEG bandwidths associated with seizure, while CBiPES was less effective and BINA was ineffective. These data generally support continued development of mGluR2 pharmacology for novel antiepileptic drugs, though further study with additional drugs and concentrations will be necessary.
Epilepsy is a common neurological disorder in Nigeria. Many individuals are affected in rural areas, although prevalence data is not available. In this study we aimed to establish the prevalence of epilepsy in a rural community in south-east Nigeria, a community suspected for having a high number of people living with epilepsy. We compared this with the prevalence in a nearby semi-urban community in north-central Nigeria. In both communities we identified potential causes of epilepsy and obtained information on the social beliefs regarding epilepsy. We used door-to-door surveys and focus group discussions. The epilepsy prevalence in the rural community was 20.8/1000 [95% confidence interval (CI): 15.7-27.4]. The prevalence in the semi-rural community was lower, namely 4.7/1000 [CI: 3.2-6.9]. The difference in prevalence was highly significant ((2)-test, p&lt;0.0001). In both communities most people with epilepsy were in the age range of 7-24 years. Causes that might be contributory to the prevalence of epilepsy in both communities included poor obstetric practices, frequent febrile convulsions, head trauma, meningitis and neurocysticercosis. In both communities we found stigma of people with epilepsy. In conclusion, the epilepsy prevalence in the semi-urban community is similar to that in industrialized countries. In contrast, the rural community has a much higher prevalence. This may require the establishment of specific community-based epilepsy control programs. Community interventions should focus on treatment of acute epilepsy and on stigma reduction.

Despite the common co-occurrence of symptoms of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in individuals with autism spectrum disorders (ASD), the underlying mechanisms are under-explored. A potential candidate for investigation is response time intra-subject variability (RT-ISV), a hypothesized marker of attentional lapses. Direct comparisons of RT-ISV in ASD versus ADHD are limited and contradictory. We aimed to examine whether distinct fluctuations in RT-ISV characterize children with ASD and with ADHD relative to typically developing children (TDC). We applied both a priori-based and data-driven strategies to RT performance of 46 children with ASD, 46 with ADHD, and 36 TDC (aged 7-11.9 years). Specifically, we contrasted groups relative to the amplitude of four preselected frequency bands as well as to 400 frequency bins from 0.006 to 0.345 Hz. In secondary analyses, we divided the ASD group into children with and without substantial ADHD symptoms (ASD(+) and ASD(-), respectively). Regardless of the strategy employed, RT-ISV fluctuations at frequencies between 0.20 and 0.345 Hz distinguished children with ADHD, but not children with ASD, from TDC. Children with ASD(+) and those with ADHD shared elevated amplitudes of RT-ISV fluctuations in frequencies between 0.18 and 0.345 Hz relative to TDC. In contrast, the ASD(-) subgroup did not differ from TDC in RT-ISV frequency fluctuations. RT-ISV fluctuations in frequencies 0.18-0.345 Hz (i.e., periods between 3 and 5 s) are associated with ADHD symptoms regardless of categorical diagnosis and may represent a biomarker. These results suggest that children with ADHD and those with ASD(+) share common underlying pathophysiological mechanisms of RT-ISV.
Lisdexamfetamine dimesylate (LDX) is a long-acting, prodrug stimulant therapy for patients with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). This randomized placebo-controlled trial of an optimized daily dose of LDX (30, 50 or 70 mg) was conducted in children and adolescents (aged 6-17 years) with ADHD. To evaluate the efficacy of LDX throughout the day, symptoms and behaviors of ADHD were evaluated using an abbreviated version of the Conners' Parent Rating Scale-Revised (CPRS-R) at 1000, 1400 and 1800 hours following early morning dosing (0700 hours). Osmotic-release oral system methylphenidate (OROS-MPH) was included as a reference treatment, but the study was not designed to support a statistical comparison between LDX and OROS-MPH. The full analysis set comprised 317 patients (LDX, n = 104; placebo, n = 106; OROS-MPH, n = 107). At baseline, CPRS-R total scores were similar across treatment groups. At endpoint, differences (active treatment - placebo) in least squares (LS) mean change from baseline CPRS-R total scores were statistically significant (P &lt; 0.001) throughout the day for LDX (effect sizes: 1000 hours, 1.42; 1400 hours, 1.41; 1800 hours, 1.30) and OROS-MPH (effect sizes: 1000 hours, 1.04; 1400 hours, 0.98; 1800 hours, 0.92). Differences in LS mean change from baseline to endpoint were statistically significant (P &lt; 0.001) for both active treatments in all four subscales of the CPRS-R (ADHD index, oppositional, hyperactivity and cognitive). In conclusion, improvements relative to placebo in ADHD-related symptoms and behaviors in children and adolescents receiving a single morning dose of LDX or OROS-MPH were maintained throughout the day and were ongoing at the last measurement in the evening (1800 hours).



Epistasis between interleukin-10 (IL10) and aromatase gene polymorphisms has previously been reported to modify the risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, although the main effects of aromatase variants suggest a sex-specific effect in AD, there has been insufficient power to detect sex-specific epistasis between these genes to date. Here we used the cohort of 1757 AD patients and 6294 controls in the Epistasis Project. We replicated the previously reported main effects of aromatase polymorphisms in AD risk in women, for example, adjusted odds ratio of disease for rs1065778 GG=1.22 (95% confidence interval: 1.01-1.48, P=0.03). We also confirmed a reported epistatic interaction between IL10 rs1800896 and aromatase (CYP19A1) rs1062033, again only in women: adjusted synergy factor=1.94 (1.16-3.25, 0.01). Aromatase, a rate-limiting enzyme in the synthesis of estrogens, is expressed in AD-relevant brain regions ,and is downregulated during the disease. IL-10 is an anti-inflammatory cytokine. Given that estrogens have neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory activities and regulate microglial cytokine production, epistasis is biologically plausible. Diminishing serum estrogen in postmenopausal women, coupled with suboptimal brain estrogen synthesis, may contribute to the inflammatory state, that is a pathological hallmark of AD.






The medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) serves executive control functions and forms direct connections with subcortical areas such as the amygdala. Our previous work showed abnormal inhibition of mPFC pyramidal cells and hyperactivity of amygdala output neurons in an arthritis pain model. To restore mPFC activity and hence control pain-related amygdala hyperactivity this study focused on CB1 and mGluR5 receptors, which are important modulators of cortical functions. Extracellular single-unit recordings of infralimbic mPFC pyramidal cells and of amygdala output neurons in the laterocapsular division of the central nucleus (CeLC) were made in anesthetised adult male rats. mPFC neurons were classified as 'excited' or 'inhibited' based on their response to brief innocuous and noxious test stimuli. After arthritis pain induction, background activity and evoked responses of excited neurons and background activity and inhibition of inhibited neurons decreased. Stereotaxic application of an mGluR5-positive allosteric modulator (N-cyclobutyl-6-((3-fluorophenyl)ethynyl) nicotinamide hydrochloride, VU0360172) into the mPFC increased background and evoked activity of excited, but not inhibited, mPFC neurons under normal conditions but not in arthritis. A selective CB1 receptor agonist (arachidonyl-2-chloroethylamide) alone had no effect but restored the facilitatory effects of VU0360172 in the pain model. Coactivation of CB1 and mGluR5 in the mPFC inhibited the pain-related activity increase of CeLC neurons but had no effect under normal conditions. The data suggest that excited mPFC neurons are inversely linked to amygdala output (CeLC) and that CB1 can increase mGluR5 function in this subset of mPFC neurons to engage cortical control of abnormally enhanced amygdala output in pain.
The endogenous cannabinoid (endocannabinoid) system plays a key role in the modulation of aversive and nociceptive behaviour. The components of the endocannabinoid system are expressed throughout the hippocampus, a brain region implicated in both conditioned fear and pain. In light of evidence that pain can impact on the expression of fear-related behaviour, and vice versa, we hypothesised that exogenous administration of the endocannabinoid 2-arachidonoyl glycerol (2-AG) into the ventral hippocampus (vHip) would differentially regulate fear responding in the absence vs. the presence of formalin-evoked nociceptive tone. Fear-conditioned rats showed significantly increased freezing and a reduction in formalin-evoked nociceptive behaviour upon re-exposure to a context previously paired with footshock. Bilateral microinjection of 2-AG into the vHip significantly reduced contextually induced freezing in non-formalin-treated rats, and reduced formalin-evoked nociceptive behaviour in non-fear-conditioned rats. In contrast, 2-AG microinjection had no effect on fear responding in formalin-treated rats, and no effect on nociceptive behaviour in fear-conditioned rats. The inhibitory effect of 2-AG on fear-related behaviour, but not pain-related behaviour, was blocked by co-administration of the cannabinoid receptor 1 (CB1) antagonist/inverse agonist rimonabant. Tissue levels of the endocannabinoids N-arachidonoylethanolamide (anandamide, AEA) and 2-AG were similar in the vHip of fear-conditioned rats receiving formalin injection and the vHip of fear-conditioned rats receiving saline injection. However, the levels of AEA and 2-AG were significantly lower in the contralateral ventrolateral periaqueductal grey of formalin-treated fear-conditioned rats than in that of their saline-treated counterparts. These data suggest that 2-AG-CB1 receptor signalling in the vHip has an anti-aversive effect, and that this effect is abolished in the presence of a persistent pain state.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) signaling is important in the development and functional maintenance of nociceptors, but it also plays a central role in initiating and sustaining heat and mechanical hyperalgesia following inflammation. NGF signaling in pain has traditionally been thought of as primarily engaging the classic high-affinity receptor tyrosine kinase receptor TrkA to initiate sensitization events. However, the discovery that secreted proforms of nerve NGF have biological functions distinct from the processed mature factors raised the possibility that these proneurotrophins (proNTs) may have distinct function in painful conditions. ProNTs engage a novel receptor system that is distinct from that of mature neurotrophins, consisting of sortilin, a type I membrane protein belonging to the VPS10p family, and its co-receptor, the classic low-affinity neurotrophin receptor p75NTR. Here, we review how this new receptor system may itself function with or independently of the classic TrkA system in regulating inflammatory or neuropathic pain.
Pain in infancy influences pain reactivity in later life, but how and why this occurs is poorly understood. Here we review the evidence for developmental plasticity of nociceptive pathways in animal models and discuss the peripheral and central mechanisms that underlie this plasticity. Adults who have experienced neonatal injury display increased pain and injury-induced hyperalgesia in the affected region but mild injury can also induce widespread baseline hyposensitivity across the rest of the body surface, suggesting the involvement of several underlying mechanisms, depending upon the type of early life experience. Peripheral nerve sprouting and dorsal horn central sensitization, disinhibition and neuroimmune priming are discussed in relation to the increased pain and hyperalgesia, while altered descending pain control systems driven, in part, by changes in the stress/HPA axis are discussed in relation to the widespread hypoalgesia. Finally, it is proposed that the endocannabinoid system deserves further attention in the search for mechanisms underlying injury-induced changes in pain processing in infants and children.
Neurotrophins are traditionally known for their roles in neuronal development, function and survival. More recent data has highlighted the importance of neurotrophin signalling in adult signalling contexts, including the regulation of synaptic transmission. In addition, neurotrophin levels are increased in inflammatory and neuropathic pain leading to sensitization to painful stimuli. Endocannabinoid (eCB) signalling was initially studied in the context of synaptic transmission and pain alleviation whilst recently gaining attention due to its involvement in the development of the nervous system. Similar to neurotrophins, eCB levels also rise during pain perception but result in diminished pain sensations. The overlap of cellular functions between neurotrophins and eCB signalling leads to the hypothesis that these signalling systems are positioned to regulate each other and narrow the multitude of actions that both systems can promote to the specific need of the cell. Therefore, in this review, we examine to what extent the involvement of these two signalling systems is co-ordinated as opposed to being coincidental, and causal to neuronal circuit modifications in pain. Available data point to numerous direct molecular interactions between the neurotrophin and eCB signalling systems in developmental and adult contexts, including receptor-level interplay, transcriptional control and synergistic regulation of downstream signalling cascades. Although experimental observations specifically in pain circuits are limited, the universality of downstream signalling systems from both neurotrophin and endocannabinoid receptors suggest an interdependent relationship between these two diverse signalling systems.

In Parkinson's disease, a loss of dopamine neurons causes severe motor impairments. These motor impairments have long been thought to result exclusively from immediate effects of dopamine loss on neuronal firing in basal ganglia, causing imbalances of basal ganglia pathways. However, motor impairments and pathway imbalances may also result from dysfunctional synaptic plasticity - a novel concept of how Parkinsonian symptoms evolve. Here we built a neuro-computational model that allows us to simulate the effects of dopamine loss on synaptic plasticity in basal ganglia. Our simulations confirm that dysfunctional synaptic plasticity can indeed explain the emergence of both motor impairments and pathway imbalances in Parkinson's disease, thus corroborating the novel concept. By predicting that dysfunctional plasticity results not only in reduced activation of desired responses, but also in their active inhibition, our simulations provide novel testable predictions. When simulating dopamine replacement therapy (which is a standard treatment in clinical practice), we observe a new balance of pathway outputs, rather than a simple restoration of non-Parkinsonian states. In addition, high doses of replacement are shown to result in overshooting motor activity, in line with empirical evidence. Finally, our simulations provide an explanation for the intensely debated paradox that focused basal ganglia lesions alleviate Parkinsonian symptoms, but do not impair performance in healthy animals. Overall, our simulations suggest that the effects of dopamine loss on synaptic plasticity play an essential role in the development of Parkinsonian symptoms, thus arguing for a re-conceptualisation of Parkinsonian pathophysiology.
Assessing risk is an essential part of human behaviour and may be disrupted in a number of psychiatric conditions. Currently, in many animal experimental designs the basis of the potential 'risk' is loss or attenuation of reward, which fail to capture 'real-life' risky situations where there is a trade-off between a separate cost and reward. The development of rodent tasks where two separate and conflicting factors are traded against each other has begun to address this discrepancy. Here, we discuss the merits of these risk-taking tasks and describe the development of a novel test for mice - the 'predator-odour risk-taking' task. This paradigm encapsulates a naturalistic approach to measuring risk-taking behaviour where mice have to balance the benefit of gaining a food reward with the cost of exposure to a predator odour using a range of different odours (rat, cat and fox). We show that the 'predator-odour risk-taking' task was sensitive to the trade-off between cost and benefit by demonstrating reduced motivation to collect food reward in the presence of these different predator odours in two strains of mice and, also, if the value of the food reward was reduced. The 'predator-odour risk-taking' task therefore provides a strong platform for the investigation of the genetic substrates of risk-taking behaviour using mouse models, and adds a further dimension to other recently developed rodent tests.
The diuretic bumetanide, which acts by blocking the Na-K-Cl cotransporter (NKCC), is widely used to inhibit neuronal NKCC1, particularly when NKCC1 expression is abnormally increased in brain diseases such as epilepsy. However, bumetanide poorly penetrates into the brain and, in rodents, is rapidly eliminated because of extensive oxidation of its N-butyl sidechain, reducing the translational value of rodent experiments. Inhibition of oxidation by piperonyl butoxide (PBO) has previously been reported to increase the half-life and diuretic activity of bumetanide in rats. Here we studied whether inhibition of bumetanide metabolism by PBO also increases brain levels of bumetanide in rats, and whether this alters pharmacodynamic effects in the kindling model of epilepsy. Furthermore, we studied the effects of PBO in mice. Mice eliminated bumetanide less rapidly than rats (elimination half-life 47 min vs. 13 min). Pretreatment with PBO increased the half-life in mice to average values (70 min) previously determined in humans, and markedly elevated brain levels of bumetanide. In rats, the increase in plasma and brain levels of bumetanide by PBO was less marked than in mice. PBO significantly increased the diuretic activity of bumetanide in rats and, less effectively, in mice. In epileptic mice, bumetanide (with PBO) did not suppress spontaneous seizures. In the rat kindling model, bumetanide (with or without PBO) did not exert anticonvulsant effects on fully kindled seizures, but dose-dependently altered kindling development. These data indicate that PBO offers a simple means to enhance the translational properties of rodent experiments with bumetanide, particularly when using mice.
The spatial components of a visual scene are processed neurally in a sequence of coarse features followed by fine features. This coarse-to-fine temporal stream was initially considered to be a cortical function, but has recently been demonstrated in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus. The goal of this study was to test the hypothesis that coarse-to-fine processing is present at earlier stages of visual processing in the retinal ganglion cells that supply lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) neurons. To compare coarse-to-fine processing in the cat's visual system, we measured the visual responses of connected neuronal pairs from the retina and LGN, and separate populations of cells from each region. We found that coarse-to-fine processing was clearly present at the ganglion cell layer of the retina. Interestingly, peak and high-spatial-frequency cutoff responses were higher in the LGN than in the retina, indicating that there was a progressive cascade of coarse-to-fine information from the retina to the LGN to the visual cortex. The analysis of early visual pathway receptive field characteristics showed that the physiological response interplay between the center and surround regions was consistent with coarse-to-fine features and may provide a primary role in the underlying mechanism. Taken together, the results from this study provided a framework for understanding the emergence and refinement of coarse-to-fine processing in the visual system.
Dopamine (DA) plays an important role in integrative functions contributing to adaptive behaviors. In support of this essential function, DA modulates synaptic plasticity in different brain areas, including the striatum. Many drugs used for cognitive enhancement are psychostimulants, such as methylphenidate (MPH), which enhance DA levels. MPH treatment is of interest during adolescence, a period of enhanced neurodevelopment during which the DA system is in a state of flux. Recent epidemiological studies report the co-abuse of MPH and ethanol in adolescents and young adults. Although repeated MPH treatment produces enduring changes that affect subsequent behavioral responses to other psychostimulants, few studies have investigated the interactions between MPH and ethanol. Here we addressed whether chronic therapeutic exposure to MPH during adolescence predisposed mice to an altered response to ethanol and whether this was accompanied by altered DA release and striatal plasticity. C57BL/6J mice were administered MPH (3-6 mg/kg/day) via the drinking water between post-natal days 30 and 60. Voltammetry experiments showed that sufficient brain MPH concentrations were achieved during adolescence in mice to increase the DA clearance in adulthood. The treatment also increased long-term depression and reduced the effects of ethanol on striatal synaptic responses. Although the injection of 0.4 or 2 g/kg ethanol dose-dependently decreased locomotion in control mice, only the higher dose decreased locomotion in MPH-treated mice. These results suggested that the administration of MPH during development promoted long-term effects on synaptic plasticity in forebrain regions targeted by DA. These changes in plasticity might, in turn, underlie alterations in behaviors controlled by these brain regions into adulthood.







The primary aim was to compare objective and subjective measures of adherence in a naturalistic cohort of schizophrenia outpatients over 12 months between October 2008 and June 2011. Antipsychotic medication adherence was monitored in 117 outpatients diagnosed with schizophrenia or schizophrenia-like psychosis according to DSM-IV criteria in a naturalistic prospective study. Adherence was determined by the Medication Event Monitoring System (MEMS), pill count, plasma levels and patient, staff, psychiatrist and close informant ratings. The plasma level adherence measure reflects adherence to medication and to lab visits. Relationships between MEMS adherence and other measures were expressed as a concordance index and kappa (K). Non-adherence (MEMS 0.80) was observed in 27% of the patients. MEMS adherence was highly correlated with pill count (concordance= 89% and K=0.72, p&lt;0.001). Concordance and K were lower for all other adherence measures and very low for the relationship between MEMS adherence and plasma levels (concordance=56% and K=0.05, p=0.217). Adherence measures were also entered into a principal component analysis that yielded three components. MEMS recordings, pill count and informant ratings had their highest loadings in the first component, plasma levels alone in the second and patient, psychiatrist and staff ratings in the third. The strong agreement between MEMS and pill count suggests that structured pill count might be a useful tool to follow adherence in clinical practice. The large discrepancy between MEMS and the adherence measure based on plasma levels needs further study in clinical settings.
Depression could be an independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease. We assessed bupropion response in depressed patients by polysomnography (PSG) and cardiopulmonary coupling (CPC) variables. Nineteen subjects participated in a two-session, two consecutive night PSG protocol. Participants received either placebo or bupropion-SR 150 mg, orally, in a randomized, double-blind cross-over fashion on night two. Outcome variables were: sleep stages, REM latency, stable, unstable sleep and very low frequency coupling (VLFC). CPC analysis uses heart rate variability and the electrocardiogram's R-wave amplitude fluctuations associated with respiration to generate frequency maps. Bupropion increased REM latency (p=0.043) but did not impact PSG sleep continuity, architecture and CPC variables. A trend (p=0.092) was observed towards increasing VLFC duration. Bupropion increased the number of stable-unstable sleep transitions (p=0.036). Moderate to strong correlations between PSG and CPC variables were found on placebo and bupropion nights. Limitations include a small sample size, limited power to detect CPC changes and lack of normal controls for comparison. Increased stable-unstable sleep transitions and VLFC duration may indicate vulnerability to cardiovascular disease due to their association with low heart rate variability that has been associated with increased mortality raising the question whether the beneficial effects of the antidepressant medication outweighs the impact on cardiopulmonary dynamics.
The endocannabinoid system (ECS) is an important modulatory and potentially neuroprotective homeostatic system in the brain. In Alzheimer's disease (AD), the role of type 1 cannabinoid receptor (CBR) is unclear, with contradictory findings in post-mortem studies showing upregulation, downregulation or unchanged CBR status. We have investigated CBR availability in vivo in patients with AD, in relation to amyloid deposition, cognitive functioning and apolipoprotein E (ApoE) genotype. Eleven AD patients and 7 healthy volunteers (HV) underwent combined [F]MK-9470 PET and [C]PIB PET scans to assess CBR availability and amyloid deposition, respectively, and T1 volumetric MRI for partial volume correction. We found no difference in CBR availability between AD and HV, VOI-based fractional uptake values (FUR) were 0.0430.01 for AD and 0.0450.01 for controls (p=0.9). CBR availability did not correlate with neuropsychological test scores and was not modulated by ApoE genotype. As expected, global [C]PIB SUVR (standardized uptake value ratio) was increased in AD (SUVR 1.90.3) compared to HV (1.20.1) with p&lt;0.001, but no correlation was found between amyloid  (A) deposition and CBR availability. In conclusion, we found no in vivo evidence for a difference in CBR availability in AD compared to age-matched controls. Taken together with recently reported in vivo CBR changes in Parkinson's and Huntington's disease, these data suggest that the CBR is differentially involved in neurodegenerative disorders.
Our previous study showed enhanced declarative memory consolidation after acute methylphenidate (MPH) administration. The primary aim of the current study was to investigate the duration of this effect. Secondary, the dopaminergic contribution of MPH effects, the electrophysiological correlates of declarative memory, and the specificity of memory enhancing effects of MPH to declarative memory were assessed. Effects of 40 mg of MPH on memory performance were compared to 100mg of levodopa (LEV) in a placebo-controlled crossover study with 30 healthy volunteers. Memory performance testing included a word learning test, the Sternberg memory scanning task, a paired associates learning task, and a spatial working memory task. During the word learning test, event-related brain potentials (ERPs) were measured. MPH failed to enhance retention of words at a 30 min delay, but it improved 24 h delayed memory recall relative to PLA and LEV. Furthermore, during encoding, the P3b and P600 ERP latencies were prolonged and the P600 amplitude was larger after LEV compared to PLA and MPH. MPH speeded response times on the Sternberg Memory Scanning task and improved performance on the Paired Associates Learning task, relative to LEV, but not PLA. Performance on the Spatial working memory task was not affected by the treatments. These findings suggest that MPH and LEV might have opposite effects on memory.
Bifunctional drug therapy targeting distinct receptor signalling systems can generate increased efficacy at lower concentrations compared to monofunctional therapy. Non-competitive blockade of the NMDA receptors or the potentiation of AMPA receptors is well documented to result in memory enhancement. Here, we compared the efficacy of the low-affinity NMDA receptor blocker memantine or the positive modulator of AMPA receptor QXX (in C57BL/6J at 1 or 5mg/kg, ip) with new derivatives of isothiourea (0.5-1 mg/kg, ip) that have bifunctional efficacy. Low-affinity NMDA blockade by these derivatives was achieved by introducing greater flexibility into the molecule, and AMPA receptor stimulation was produced by a sulfamide-containing derivative of isothiourea. Contextual learning was examined in a step-down avoidance task and extinction of contextual memory was studied in a fear-conditioning paradigm. Memantine enhanced contextual learning while QXX facilitated memory extinction; both drugs were effective at 5 mg/kg. The new derivative IPAC-5 elevated memory scores in both tasks at the dose 0.5 mg/kg and exhibited the lowest IC values of NMDA receptor blockade and highest potency of AMPA receptor stimulation. Thus, among the new drugs tested, IPAC-5 replicated the properties of memantine and QXX in one administration with increased potency. Our data suggest that a concomitant manipulation of NMDA- and AMPA-receptors results in pro-cognitive effects and supports the concept bifunctional drug therapy as a promising strategy to replace monofunctional therapies with greater efficacy and improved compliance.
Medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) play critical roles in cognition and behavioural control. Glutamatergic, GABAergic, and monoaminergic dysfunction in the prefrontal cortex has been hypothesised to underlie symptoms in neuropsychiatric disorders. Here we characterised electrically-evoked field potentials in the mPFC and OFC. Electrical stimulation evoked field potentials in layer V/VI of the mPFC and layer V of the OFC. The earliest component (approximately 2 ms latency) was insensitive to glutamate receptor blockade and was presumed to be presynaptic. Later components were blocked by 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (DNQX (20 M)) and were assumed to reflect monosynaptic (latency 4-6 ms) and polysynaptic activity (latency 6-40 ms) mediated by glutamate via AMPA/kainate receptor. In the mPFC, but not the OFC, the monosynaptic component was also partly blocked by 2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (AP-5 (50-100M)) indicating the involvement of NMDA receptors. Bicuculline (3-10 M) enhanced the monosynaptic component suggesting electrically-evoked and/or glutamate induced GABA release inhibits the monosynaptic component via GABAA receptor activation. There were complex effects of bicuculline on polysynaptic components. In the mPFC both the mono- and polysynaptic components were attenuated by 5-HT (10-100 M) and NA (30 and 60 M) and the monosynaptic component was attenuated by DA (100 M). In the OFC the mono- and polysynaptic components were also attenuated by 5-HT (100 M), NA (10-100 M) but DA (10-100 M) had no effect. We propose that these pharmacologically characterised electrically-evoked field potentials in the mPFC and OFC are useful models for the study of prefrontal cortical physiology and pathophysiology.
Tobacco dependence is the most common substance use disorder in adults with mental illness. The prevalence rates for tobacco dependence are two to four times higher in these patients than in the general population. Smoking has a strong, negative influence on the life expectancy and quality of life of mental health patients, and remains the leading preventable cause of death in this group. Despite these statistics, in some countries smokers with mental illness are disadvantaged in receiving intervention and support for their tobacco dependence, which is often overlooked or even tolerated. This statement from the European Psychiatric Association (EPA) systematically reviews the current evidence on tobacco dependence and withdrawal in patients with mental illness and their treatment. It provides seven recommendations for the core components of diagnostics and treatment in this patient group. These recommendations concern: (1) the recording process, (2) the timing of the intervention, (3) counselling specificities, (4) proposed treatments, (5) frequency of contact after stopping, (6) follow-up visits and (7) relapse prevention. They aim to help clinicians improve the care, health and well-being of patients suffering from mental illness.



Presenilin-1 (PS1) and presenilin-2 (PS2) are transmembrane proteins widely expressed in the central nervous system, which function as the catalytic subunits of -secretase, the enzyme that releases amyloid- protein (A) from ectodomain cleaved amyloid precursor protein (APP) by intramembrane proteolysis. Mutations in PS1, PS2, and A protein precursor are involved in the etiology of familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD), while the cause of the sporadic form of AD (SAD) is still not known. However, since similar neuropathological changes have been observed in both FAD and SAD, a common pathway in the etiology of the disease has been suggested. Given that age-related deranged Ca(2+) regulation has been hypothesized to play a role in SAD pathogenesis via PS gene regulation and -secretase activity, we studied the in vitro regulation of PS1 and PS2 in the human neuron-like SK-N-BE cell line treated with the specific endoplasmic reticulum (ER) calcium ATPase inhibitor Thapsigargin (THG), to introduce intracellular Ca(2+) perturbations and mimic the altered Ca(2+) homeostasis observed in AD. Our results showed a consistent and significant down-regulation of PS2, while PS1 appeared to be unmodulated. These events were accompanied by oxidative stress and a number of morphological alterations suggestive of the induction of apoptotic machinery. The administration of the antioxidant N-acetylcysteine (NAC) did not revert the THG-induced effects reported, while treatment with the Ca(2+)-independent ER stressor Brefeldin A did not modulate basal PS1 and PS2 expression. Collectively, these results suggest that Ca(2+) fluctuation rather than ER stress and/or oxidative imbalance seems to play an essential role in PS2 regulation and confirm that, despite their strong homology, PS1 and PS2 could play different roles in AD.
Patterns of adaptive changes to the exposure to a sinusoidal visual stimulus can be influenced by stimulus characteristics as well as the integrity of the sensory and motor systems involved in the task. Sensorimotor deficits due to aging might alter postural responses to visual manipulation, especially in more demanding tasks. The purpose of this study was to compare postural control between young and older adults at different levels of complexity and to examine whether possible sensory and/or motor changes account for postural performance differences in older adults. Older and young adults were submitted to the following tests: postural control assessments, i.e., body sway during upright stance and induced by movement of a visual scene (moving room paradigm); sensory assessments, i.e., visual (acuity and contrast sensitivity) and somatosensory (tactile foot sensitivity and detection of passive ankle motion); and motor assessments, i.e., isometric ankle torque and muscular activity latency after stance perturbation. Older adults had worse sensory and motor performance, larger body sway amplitude during stance and stronger coupling between body sway and moving room motion than younger adults. Multiple linear regression analyses indicated that the threshold for the detection of passive ankle motion contributed the most to variances in body sway and this contribution was more striking when visual information was manipulated in a more unpredictable way. The present study suggests that less accurate information about body position is more detrimental to controlling body position, mainly for older adults in more demanding tasks.
Recent research has provided evidence suggesting a link between inefficient processing of multisensory information and incidence of falling in older adults. Specifically, Setti et al. (Exp Brain Res 209:375-384, 2011) reported that older adults with a history of falling were more susceptible than their healthy, age-matched counterparts to the sound-induced flash illusion. Here, we investigated whether balance control in fall-prone older adults was directly associated with multisensory integration by testing susceptibility to the illusion under two postural conditions: sitting and standing. Whilst standing, fall-prone older adults had a greater body sway than the age-matched healthy older adults and their body sway increased when presented with the audio-visual illusory but not the audio-visual congruent conditions. We also found an increase in susceptibility to the sound-induced flash illusion during standing relative to sitting for fall-prone older adults only. Importantly, no performance differences were found across groups in either the unisensory or non-illusory multisensory conditions across the two postures. These results suggest an important link between multisensory integration and balance control in older adults and have important implications for understanding why some older adults are prone to falling.
Central pain is one of the most important complications after spinal cord injury (SCI), and thereby, its treatment raises many challenges. After SCI, in a cascade of molecular events, a marked increase in glutamate at the injury site results in secondary changes which may impact on supraspinal regions, mainly ventroposterolateral (VPL). There is little information about the changes in glutamate metabolism in the VPL and whether it contributes to SCI-related central pain. The present study was performed to evaluate glutamate release in the VPL following electrolytic lesion of spinothalamic tract (STT). A laminectomy was performed at spinal segments of T9-T10 in male rats, and then, unilateral electrolytic lesions were made in the STT. Glutamate concentrations in ipsilateral VPL dialysate were measured by HPLC method at days 3, 7, 14, 21 and 28 post-injury. Tactile pain and motor activity were also examined. Glutamate levels were significantly increased in ipsilateral VPL of spinal-cord-injured rats 2 weeks after SCI and remained high up to day 28 post-surgery. The STT lesions had no marked effect on our measures of motor activity, but there was a significant decrease in paw withdrawal threshold in the hind paws at day 14 post-SCI. These findings suggest that an increased release of glutamate in VPL plays a role in secondary pathologic changes, leading to neuronal hyperexcitation and neuropathic pain after SCI.
This study examined the extent to which haptic perception of two-dimensional (2-D) shape is modified by the design of the perceptual task (single-interval categorization vs. two-interval discrimination), the orientation of the angles in space (oblique vs. horizontal), and the exploration strategy (one or two passes over the angle). Subjects (n = 12) explored 2-D angles using the index finger of the outstretched arm. In the categorization task, subjects scanned individual angles, categorizing each as &quot;large&quot; or &quot;small&quot; (2 angles presented in each block of trials; range 80 vs. 100 to 89 vs. 91; implicit standard 90). In the discrimination task, a pair of angles was scanned (standard 90; comparison 91-103) and subjects identified the larger angle. The threshold for 2-D angle categorization was significantly lower than for 2-D angle discrimination, 4 versus 7.2. Performance in the categorization task did not vary with either the orientation of the angles (horizontal vs. oblique, 3.9 vs. 4) or the number of passes over the angle (1 vs. 2 passes, 3.9 vs. 4). We suggest that the lower threshold with angle categorization likely reflects the reduced cognitive demands of this task. We found no evidence for a haptic oblique effect (higher threshold with oblique angles), likely reflecting the presence of an explicit external frame of reference formed by the intersection of the two bars forming the 2-D angles. Although one-interval haptic categorization is a more sensitive method for assessing 2-D haptic angle perception, perceptual invariances for exploratory strategy and angle orientation were, nevertheless, task-independent.
The principal neural cell types forming the mature central nervous system (CNS) are now understood to be diverse. This cellular subtype diversity originates to a large extent from the specification of the earlier proliferating progenitor populations during development. Here, we review the processes governing the differentiation of a common neuroepithelial cell progenitor pool into mature neurons, astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, ependymal cells and adult stem cells. We focus on studies performed in mice and involving two distinct CNS structures: the spinal cord and the cerebral cortex. Understanding the origin, specification and developmental regulators of neural cells will ultimately impact comprehension and treatments of neurological disorders and diseases.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small, non-coding RNAs that negatively regulate gene expression at the post-transcriptional level. In the brain, a large number of miRNAs are expressed and there is a growing body of evidence demonstrating that miRNAs are essential for brain development and neuronal function. Conditional knockout studies of the core components in the miRNA biogenesis pathway, such as Dicer and DGCR8, have demonstrated a crucial role for miRNAs during the development of the central nervous system. Furthermore, mice deleted for specific miRNAs and miRNA-clusters demonstrate diverse functional roles for different miRNAs during the development of different brain structures. miRNAs have been proposed to regulate cellular functions such as differentiation, proliferation and fate-determination of neural progenitors. In this review we summarise the findings from recent studies that highlight the importance of miRNAs in brain development with a focus on the mouse model. We also discuss the technical limitations of current miRNA studies that still limit our understanding of this family of non-coding RNAs and propose the use of novel and refined technologies that are needed in order to fully determine the impact of specific miRNAs in brain development.
We recently reported that the tetra(ethylene glycol) derivative of benzothiazole aniline, BTA-EG4, acts as an amyloid-binding small molecule that promotes dendritic spine density and cognitive function in wild-type mice. This raised the possibility that BTA-EG4 may benefit the functional decline seen in Alzheimer's disease (AD). In the present study, we directly tested whether BTA-EG4 improves dendritic spine density and cognitive function in a well-established mouse model of AD carrying mutations in APP, PS1 and tau (APPswe;PS1M146V;tauP301L, 3xTg AD mice). We found that daily injections of BTA-EG4 for 2 weeks improved dendritic spine density and cognitive function of 3xTg AD mice in an age-dependent manner. Specifically, BTA-EG4 promoted both dendritic spine density and morphology alterations in cortical layers II/III and in the hippocampus at 6-10 months of age compared to vehicle-injected mice. However, at 13-16 months of age, only cortical spine density was improved without changes in spine morphology. The changes in dendritic spine density correlated with Ras activity, such that 6-10 month old BTA-EG4 injected 3xTg AD mice had increased Ras activity in the cortex and hippocampus, while 13-16 month old mice only trended toward an increase in Ras activity in the cortex. Finally, BTA-EG4 injected 3xTg AD mice at 6-10 months of age showed improved learning and memory; however, only minimal improvement was observed at 13-16 months of age. This behavioral improvement corresponds to a decrease in soluble A 40 levels. Taken together, these findings suggest that BTA-EG4 may be beneficial in ameliorating the synaptic loss seen in early AD.
Stroke induces pathophysiological and adaptive processes in regions proximal and distal to the infarct. Recent studies suggest that plasticity at the level of the spinal cord may contribute to sensorimotor recovery after cortical stroke. Here, we compare the time course of heightened structural plasticity in the spinal cord against the temporal profile of cortical plasticity and spontaneous behavioral recovery. To examine the relation between trophic and inflammatory effectors and spinal structural plasticity, spinal expression of brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), neurotrophin-3 (NT-3), tumor necrosis factor- (TNF-), and interleukin-6 (IL-6) was measured. Growth-associated protein 43 (GAP-43), measured at 3, 7, 14, or 28 days after photothrombotic stroke of the forelimb sensorimotor cortex (FL-SMC) to provide an index of periods of heightened structural plasticity, varied as a function of lesion size and time after stroke in the cortical hemispheres and the spinal cord. Notably, GAP-43 levels in the cervical spinal cord were significantly increased after FL-SMC lesion, but the temporal window of elevated structural plasticity was more finite in spinal cord relative to ipsilesional cortical expression (returning to baseline levels by 28 post-stroke). Peak GAP-43 expression in spinal cord occurred during periods of accelerated spontaneous recovery, as measured on the Montoya Staircase reaching task, and returned to baseline as recovery plateaued. Interestingly, spinal GAP-43 levels were significantly correlated with spinal levels of the inflammatory cytokines TNF- and IL-6 as well as the neurotrophin NT-3, while a transient increase in BDNF levels preceded elevated GAP-43 expression. These data identify a significant but time-limited window of heightened structural plasticity in the spinal cord following stroke that correlates with spontaneous recovery and the spinal expression of inflammatory cytokines and neurotrophic factors.
There is controversy whether accumulation of the tumor suppressor PTEN protein in the cell nucleus under stress conditions such as trauma and stroke causes cell death. A number of in vitro studies have reported enhanced apoptosis in neurons possessing nuclear PTEN, with the interpretation that its nuclear phosphatase activity leads to reduction of the survival protein phospho-Akt. However, there have been no in vivo studies to show that nuclear PTEN in neurons under stress is detrimental. Using a mouse model of injury, we demonstrate here that brain trauma altered the nucleo-cytoplasmic distribution of Pten, resulting in increased nuclear Pten but only in surviving neurons near the lesion. This event was driven by Ndfip1, an adaptor and activator of protein ubiquitination by Nedd4 E3 ligases. Neurons next to the lesion with nuclear PTEN were invariably negative for TUNEL, a marker for cell death. These neurons also showed increased Ndfip1 which we previously showed to be associated with neuron survival. Biochemical assays revealed that overall levels of Pten in the affected cortex were unchanged after trauma, suggesting that Pten abundance globally had not increased but rather Pten subcellular location in affected neurons had changed. Following experimental injury, the number of neurons with nuclear Pten was reduced in heterozygous mice (Ndfip1(+/-)) although lesion volumes were increased. We conclude that nuclear trafficking of Pten following injury leads to neuron survival not death.
Ibuprofen is commonly used as an anti-inflammatory analgesic drug, although it is not amongst the first-line treatments for neuropathic pain. Its main effects are mediated by non-specific inhibition of COX enzymes, but it also exerts some COX-independent effects, such as the inhibition of RhoA signaling and the modulation of glial activity. These effects have boosted the use of ibuprofen as a tool to promote axonal regeneration and to increase functional recovery after neural injuries, although with controversial results showing positive and negative outcomes of ibuprofen treatment in several experimental models. We have evaluated the effects of ibuprofen administered at 60 mg/kg twice a day to rats subjected to a mild spinal cord contusion. Our results indicate that ibuprofen ameliorates mechanical hyperalgesia in rats by reducing central hyperexcitability, but failed to produce improvements in the recovery of locomotion. Despite an early effect on reducing microglial reactivity, the ibuprofen treatment did not provide histological evidence of neuroprotection; indeed the volume of cord tissue spared rostral to the lesion was decreased in ibuprofen treated rats. In summary, the early modulation of neuroinflammation produced by the administration of ibuprofen seems to eventually lead to a worse resolution of detrimental events occurring in the secondary injury phase, but also to reduce the development of neuropathic pain.

Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is a common and often a highly disabling condition that was considered untreatable before the 1960s. The advent of serotonin reuptake inhibitors and exposure and response prevention revolutionized the treatment of OCD. Although they are still the first line treatments for OCD, new treatments like augmentation strategies, brain stimulation techniques, psychosurgery, newer forms of psychotherapy (like cognitive therapy, acceptance and commitment therapy) have been added to the armamentarium. With the available treatment strategies, many patients can achieve at least partial remission of symptoms. Nevertheless, the plethora of information gives rise to many questions on their application for practicing clinicians. We provide evidence-based responses to these questions and suggest a broad guideline for treatment of OCD.
Aquaporin-4 (AQP4), the principal water channel in astrocytes, is involved in brain water movement, inflammation, and neuroexcitation. In this study, there was strong neuroprotection in mice lacking AQP4 in a model of global cerebral ischemia produced by transient, bilateral carotid artery occlusion (BCAO). Survival and neurological outcome were greatly improved in the AQP4(-/-) vs. AQP4(+/+) mice after occlusion, with large and robust differences in both outbred (CD1) and inbred (C57bl/6) mouse strains without or with mechanical ventilation. Improved survival was also seen in mice lacking the scaffold protein -syntrophin, which manifest reduced astrocyte water permeability secondary to defective AQP4 plasma membrane targeting. Intracranial pressure elevation and brain water accumulation were much reduced in the AQP4(-/-) vs. AQP4(+/+) mice after carotid artery occlusion, as were blood-brain barrier (BBB) disruption and neuronal loss. Brain slices from AQP4(-/-) mice showed significantly reduced cell swelling and cytotoxicity in response to oxygen-glucose deprivation, compared with slices from AQP4(+/+) mice. Our findings suggest that the neuroprotective effect of AQP4 deletion in global cerebral ischemia involves reduced astrocyte swelling and brain water accumulation, resulting in reduced BBB disruption, inflammation, and neuron death. AQP4 water transport inhibition may improve survival and neurological outcome after cardiac arrest and in other conditions associated with global cerebral ischemia.
Elongation factor-2 (eEF2) catalyzes the movement of the ribosome along the mRNA. A single histidine residue in eEF2 (H715) is modified to form diphthamide. A role for eEF2 in the cellular stress response is highlighted by the fact that eEF2 is sensitive to oxidative stress and that it must be active to drive the synthesis of proteins that help cells to mitigate the adverse effects of oxidative stress. Many of these proteins are encoded by mRNAs containing a sequence called an &quot;internal ribosomal entry site&quot; (IRES). Under high oxidative stress conditions diphthamide-deficient cells were significantly more sensitive to cell death. These results suggest that diphthamide may play a role in protection against the degradation of eEF2. This protection is especially important in those situations in which eEF2 is necessary for the reprogramming of translation from global to IRES synthesis. Indeed, we found that the expression of X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis (XIAP) and fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF2), two proteins synthesized from mRNAs with IRESs that promote cell survival, is deregulated in diphthamide-deficient cells. Our findings therefore suggest that eEF2 diphthamide controls the selective translation of IRES-dependent protein targets XIAP and FGF2, critical for cell survival under conditions of oxidative stress.


Knee recurvatum (KR) during gait is common in hemiplegic patients. Quadriceps spasticity has been postulated as a cause of KR in this population. The aim of this study was to assess the role of rectus femoris spasticity in KR by using selective motor nerve blocks of the rectus femoris nerve in hemiparetic stroke patients. The data from six adult, post-stroke hemiplegic patients who underwent a rectus femoris nerve block for a stiff-knee gait were retrospectively analyzed. An extensive clinical and functional evaluation was performed and gait was assessed by motion analysis (kinematic, kinetic and electromyographic parameters) before and during the block realized using 2% lidocaine injected under a neurostimulation and ultrasonographic targeting procedure. The main outcome measures were the peak knee extension in stance and peak knee extensor moment obtained during gait analysis. No serious adverse effect of the nerve block was observed. The block allowed a reduction of rectus femoris overactivity in all patients. Peak knee extension and extensor moment in stance did not improve in any patient, but peak knee flexion during the swing phase was significantly higher after block (mean: 31.2 post, 26.4 pre, p &lt; 0.05). Our results provide arguments against the hypothesis that the spasticity of the rectus femoris contributes to KR.


Photoperiodic regulation of physiology, morphology, and behavior is crucial for many animals to survive seasonally variable conditions unfavorable for reproduction and survival. The photoperiodic response in mammals is mediated by nocturnal secretion of melatonin under the control of a circadian clock. However, artificial light at night caused by recent urbanization may disrupt the circadian clock, as well as the photoperiodic response by blunting melatonin secretion. Here we examined the effect of dim light at night (dLAN) (5lux of light during the dark phase) on locomotor activity rhythms and short-day regulation of reproduction, body mass, pelage properties, and immune responses of male Siberian hamsters. Short-day animals reduced gonadal and body mass, decreased spermatid nuclei and sperm numbers, molted to a whiter pelage, and increased pelage density compared to long-day animals. However, animals that experienced short days with dLAN did not show these short-day responses. Moreover, short-day specific immune responses were altered in dLAN conditions. The nocturnal activity pattern was blunted in dLAN hamsters, consistent with the observation that dLAN changed expression of the circadian clock gene, Period1. In addition, we demonstrated that expression levels of genes implicated in the photoperiodic response, Mel-1a melatonin receptor, Eyes absent 3, thyroid stimulating hormone receptor, gonadotropin-releasing hormone, and gonadotropin-inhibitory hormone, were higher in dLAN animals than those in short-day animals. These results suggest that dLAN disturbs the circadian clock function and affects the molecular mechanisms of the photoperiodic response.
ATAD3 (ATPase family AAA-Domain containing protein 3) is a mitochondrial inner membrane ATPase with unknown but vital functions. Initial researches have focused essentially on the major p66-ATAD3 isoform, but other proteins and mRNAs are described in the data banks. Using a set of anti-peptide antibodies and by the use of rodent and human cell lines and organs, we tried to detail ATAD3 gene expression profiles and to verify the existence of the various ATAD3 isoforms. In rodent, the single ATAD3 gene is expressed as a major isoform of 67 kDa, (ATAD3l; long), in all cells and organs studied. A second isoform, p57-ATAD3s (small), is expressed specifically throughout brain development and in adult, and overexpressed around the peri-natal period. p57-ATAD3s is also expressed in neuronal and glial rodent cell lines, and during in vitro differentiation of primary cultured rat oligodendrocytes. Other smaller isoforms were also detected in a tissue-specific manner. In human and primates, ATAD3 paralogues are encoded by three genes (ATAD3A, 3B and 3C), each of them presenting several putative variants. Analyzing the expression of ATAD3A and ATAD3B with four specific anti-peptide antibodies, and comparing their expressions with in vitro expressed ATAD3 cDNAs, we were able to observe and define five isoforms. In particular, the previously described p72-ATAD3B is confirmed to be in certain cases a phosphorylated form of ATAD3As. Moreover, we observed that the ATAD3As phosphorylation level is regulated by insulin and serum. Finally, exploring ATAD3 mRNA expression, we confirmed the existence of an alternative splicing in rodent and of several mRNA isoforms in human. Considering these observations, we propose the development of a uniform denomination for ATAD3 isoforms in rodent and human.
RNA interference (RNAi) is a powerful strategy for unraveling gene function and for drug target validation, but exogenous expression of short hairpin RNAs (shRNAs) has been associated with severe side effects. These may be caused by saturation of the microRNA pathway. This study shows degenerative changes in cell morphology and intrusion of blood vessels after transduction of the ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH) of rats with a shRNA expressing adeno-associated viral (AAV) vector. To investigate whether saturation of the microRNA pathway has a role in the observed side effects, expression of neuronal microRNA miR-124 was used as a marker. Neurons transduced with the AAV vector carrying the shRNA displayed a decrease in miR-124 expression. The decreased expression was unrelated to shRNA sequence or target and observed as early as 1 week after injection. In conclusion, this study shows that the tissue response after AAV-directed expression of a shRNA to the VMH is likely to be caused by shRNA-induced saturation of the microRNA pathway. We recommend controlling for miR-124 expression when using RNAi as a tool for studying (loss of) gene function in the brain as phenotypic effects caused by saturation of the RNAi pathway might mask true effects of specific downregulation of the shRNA target.
The rat genome sequencing and mapping consortium found evidence for an association between the catenin-2 gene (CTNND2) and anxious behaviour. We replicated these results in humans by carrying out a genetic association test in patients with panic disorder, social phobia, generalized anxiety disorder and/or agoraphobia (N=1714) and controls (N=4125). We further explored the association between CTNND2 and other psychiatric disorders based on publicly available genome-wide association results. A gene-based test showed that single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in CTNND2 have a significantly increased signal (P&lt;1e(-5) ) and decreased P-values. Single nucleotide polymorphism rs1012176 showed the strongest association with any anxiety disorder (odds ratio: 0.8128, SE=0.063, P=0.00099), but this effect was not significant after correction for multiple testing. In available genome-wide association results from the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium we found that SNPs in CTNND2 collectively showed an increased signal for schizophrenia (P&lt;1e(-5) ) and major depressive disorder (P&lt;1e(-5) ), but not for bipolar disorder. These signals remained significant after correction for potential confounders. The association between CTNND2 and anxiety was not strong enough to be picked up in the current generation of human genome-wide analyses, indicating the usefulness of and need for animal genetic studies to identify candidate genes for further study in human samples.
Drinking in the dark (DID) is a limited access ethanol-drinking phenotype in mice. High Drinking in the Dark (HDID-1) mice have been bred for 27 selected generations (S27) for elevated blood ethanol concentrations (BECs) after a 4-h period of access to 20% ethanol. A second replicate line (HDID-2) was started later from the same founder population and is currently in S20. An initial report of response to selection in HDID-1 was published after S11. This article reports genetic and behavioral characteristics of both lines in comparison with the HS controls. Heritability is low in both replicates (h(2) =0.09) but the lines have shown 4-5 fold increases in BEC since S0; 80% of HDID-1 and 60% of HDID-2 mice reach BECs greater than 1.0mg/ml. Several hours after a DID test, HDID mice show mild signs of withdrawal. Although not considered during selection, intake of ethanol (g/kg) during the DID test increased by approximately 80% in HDID-1 and 60% in HDID-2. Common genetic influences were more important than environmental influences in determining the similarity between BEC and intake for HDID mice. Analysis of the partitioning of intake showed that 60% of intake is concentrated in the last 2h of the 4h session. However, this has not changed during selection. Hourly BECs during the DID test reach peak levels after 3 or 4h of drinking. HDID mice do not differ from HS mice in their rate of elimination of an acute dose of alcohol.
Mitochondrial dysfunction is implicated in the etiology and pathogenesis of numerous human disorders involving tissues with high energy demand. Murine models are widely used to elucidate genetic determinants of phenotypes relevant to human disease, with recent studies of C57BL/6J (B6), DBA/2J (D2) and B6xD2 populations implicating naturally occurring genetic variation in mitochondrial function/dysfunction. Using blue native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, immunoblots and in-gel activity analyses of complexes I, II, III, IV and V, our studies are the first to assess abundance, organization and catalytic activity of mitochondrial respiratory complexes and supercomplexes in mouse brain. Remarkable strain differences in supercomplex assembly and associated activity are evident, without differences in individual complexes I, II, III or IV. Supercomplexes I1 III2 IV2-3 exhibit robust complex III immunoreactivity and activities of complexes I and IV in D2, but with little detected in B6 for I1 III2 IV2 , and I1 III2 IV3 is not detected in B6. I1 III2 IV1 and I1 III2 are abundant and catalytically active in both strains, but significantly more so in B6. Furthermore, while supercomplex III2 IV1 is abundant in D2, none is detected in B6. In aggregate, these results indicate a shift toward more highly assembled supercomplexes in D2. Respiratory supercomplexes are thought to increase electron flow efficiency and individual complex stability, and to reduce electron leak and generation of reactive oxygen species. Our results provide a framework to begin assessing the role of respiratory complex suprastructure in genetic vulnerability and treatment for a wide variety of mitochondrial-related disorders.
Some common genetic factors appear to influence risk for drug dependence across multiple drugs of abuse. In previous research, mice that were selectively bred for higher amounts of methamphetamine consumption, using a two-bottle choice methamphetamine drinking procedure, were found to be less sensitive to the locomotor stimulant effects of morphine and of the more selective -opioid receptor agonist fentanyl, compared to mice that were bred for low methamphetamine consumption. This suggested that -opioid receptor-mediated pathways may influence genetic risk for methamphetamine consumption. We hypothesized that these differences in opioid sensitivity would impact opioid intake in the methamphetamine drinking lines and that drugs with -opioid receptor activity would impact methamphetamine intake. Consumption of morphine was examined in 2, two-bottle choice studies, one that compared morphine to quinine consumption and another that used a saccharin fading procedure. Next, naltrexone (0, 0.5, 1, 2, 5, 10 and 20mg/kg), a -opioid receptor antagonist, and buprenorphine (0, 1, 2 or 4mg/kg), a -opioid receptor partial agonist, were each examined for their effects on the acquisition of methamphetamine consumption. Low methamphetamine drinking mice consumed more morphine compared to high methamphetamine drinking mice. Naltrexone did not alter methamphetamine consumption in either selected line; however, buprenorphine reduced methamphetamine intake in the high methamphetamine drinking line. These data show that greater sensitivity to opioids is associated with greater opioid intake and warrant further investigation of drugs with -opioid receptor-specific agonist activity in genetically determined differences in methamphetamine consumption.
Maintenance of calcium homeostasis is necessary for the development and survival of all animals. Calcium ions modulate excitability and bind effectors capable of initiating many processes such as muscular contraction and neurotransmission. However, excessive amounts of calcium in the cytosol or within intracellular calcium stores can trigger apoptotic pathways in cells that have been implicated in cardiac and neuronal pathologies. Accordingly, it is critical for cells to rapidly and effectively regulate calcium levels. The Na(+) /Ca(2+) exchangers (NCX), Na(+) /Ca(2+) /K(+) exchangers (NCKX), and Ca(2+) /Cation exchangers (CCX) are the three classes of sodium calcium antiporters found in animals. These exchanger proteins utilize an electrochemical gradient to extrude calcium. Although they have been studied for decades, much is still unknown about these proteins. In this review, we examine current knowledge about the structure, function, and physiology and also discuss their implication in various developmental disorders. Finally, we highlight recent data characterizing the family of sodium calcium exchangers in the model system, Caenorhabditis elegans, and propose that C. elegans may be an ideal model to complement other systems and help fill gaps in our knowledge of sodium calcium exchange biology.

The essential zinc finger protein ASCIZ (also known as ATMIN, ZNF822) plays critical roles during lung organogenesis and B cell development in mice, where it regulates the expression of dynein light chain (DYNLL1/LC8), but its functions in other species including invertebrates are largely unknown. Here we report the identification of the Drosophila ortholog of ASCIZ (dASCIZ) and show that loss of dASCIZ function leads to pronounced mitotic delays with centrosome and spindle positioning defects during development, reminiscent of impaired dynein motor functions. Interestingly, similar mitotic and developmental defects were observed upon knockdown of the DYNLL/LC8-type dynein light chain Cutup (Ctp), and dASCIZ loss-of-function phenotypes could be suppressed by ectopic Ctp expression. Consistent with a genetic function of dASCIZ upstream of Ctp, we show that loss of dASCIZ led to reduced endogenous Ctp mRNA and protein levels and dramatically reduced Ctp-LacZ reporter gene activity in vivo, indicating that dASCIZ regulates development and mitosis as a Ctp transcription factor. We speculate that the more severe mitotic defects in the absence of ASCIZ in flies compared to mice may be due to redundancy with a second, ASCIZ-independent, Dynll2 gene in mammals in contrast to a single Ctp gene in Drosophila. Altogether, our data demonstrate that ASCIZ is an evolutionary highly conserved transcriptional regulator of dynein light-chain levels and a novel regulator of mitosis in flies.
Exome and whole-genome analyses powered by next-generation sequencing (NGS) have become invaluable tools in identifying causal mutations responsible for Mendelian disorders. Given that individual exomes contain several thousand single nucleotide variants and insertions/deletions, it remains a challenge to analyze large numbers of variants from multiple exomes to identify causal alleles associated with inherited conditions. To this end, we have developed user-friendly software that analyzes variant calls from multiple individuals to facilitate identification of causal mutations. The software, termed exomeSuite, filters for putative causative variants of monogenic diseases inherited in one of three forms: dominant, recessive caused by a homozygous variant, or recessive caused by two compound heterozygous variants. In addition, exomeSuite can perform homozygosity mapping and analyze the variant data of multiple unrelated individuals. Here we demonstrate that filtering of variants with exomeSuite reduces datasets to a fraction of a percent of their original size. To the best of our knowledge this is the first freely available software developed to analyze variant data from multiple individuals that rapidly assimilates and filters large data sets based on pattern of inheritance.
Adenosine receptor activation is involved in myelination and in apoptotic pathways linked to neurodegenerative diseases. In this study, we investigated the effects of adenosine receptor activation in the viability of oligodendrocytes of the rat optic nerve. Selective activation of A3 receptors in pure cultures of oligodendrocytes caused concentration-dependent apoptotic and necrotic death which was preceded by oxidative stress and mitochondrial membrane depolarization. Oligodendrocyte apoptosis induced by A3 receptor activation was caspase-dependent and caspase-independent. In addition to dissociated cultures, incubation of optic nerves ex vivo with adenosine and the A3 receptor agonist 2-CI-IB-MECA(1-[2-Chloro-6-[[(3-iodophenyl)methyl]amino]-9H-purin-9-yl]-1-deoxy-N-methyl-b-D-ribofuranuronamide)-induced caspase-3 activation, oligodendrocyte damage, and myelin loss, effects which were prevented by the presence of caffeine and the A3 receptor antagonist MRS 1220 (N-[9-Chloro-2-(2-furanyl)[1,2,4]-triazolo [1,5-c]quinazolin-5-yl]benzene acetamide). Finally, ischemia-induced injury and functional loss to the optic nerve was attenuated by blocking A3 receptors. Together, these results indicate that adenosine may trigger oligodendrocyte death via activation of A3 receptors and suggest that this mechanism contributes to optic nerve and white matter ischemic damage.
Multiple system atrophy (MSA) is a neurodegenerative disease characterized by the pathological accumulation of alpha-synuclein (-syn) within oligodendroglial cells. This accumulation is accompanied by neuroinflammation with astrogliosis and microgliosis, that leads to neuronal death and subsequent parkinsonism and dysautonomia. Antidepressants have been explored as neuroprotective agents as they normalize neurotrophic factor levels, increase neurogenesis and reduce neurodegeneration, but their anti-inflammatory properties have not been fully characterized. We analyzed the anti-inflammatory profiles of three different antidepressants (fluoxetine, olanzapine and amitriptyline) in the MBP1-h-syn transgenic (tg) mouse model of MSA. We observed that antidepressant treatment decreased the number of -syn-positive cells in the basal ganglia of 11-month-old tg animals. This reduction was accompanied with a similar decrease in the colocalization of -syn with astrocyte markers in this brain structure. Consistent with these results, antidepressants reduced astrogliosis in the hippocampus and basal ganglia of the MBP1-h-syn tg mice, and modulated the expression levels of key cytokines that were dysregulated in the tg mouse model, such as IL-1. In vitro experiments in the astroglial cell line C6 confirmed that antidepressants inhibited NF-B translocation to the nucleus and reduced IL-1 protein levels. We conclude that the anti-inflammatory properties of antidepressants in the MBP1-h-syn tg mouse model of MSA might be related to their ability to inhibit -syn propagation from oligodendrocytes to astroglia and to regulate transcription factors involved in cytokine expression. Our results suggest that antidepressants might be of interest as anti-inflammatory and -syn-reducing agents for MSA and other -synucleinopathies.
Microglia, the resident immune cells of the central nervous system, responds to brain disarrangements by becoming activated to contend with brain damage. Here we show that the expression of P2X4 receptors is upregulated in inflammatory foci and in activated microglia in the spinal cord of rats with experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) as well as in the optic nerve of multiple sclerosis patients. To study the role of P2X4 receptors in microgliosis, we activated microglia with LPS in vitro and in vivo. We observed that P2X4 receptor activity in vitro was increased in LPS-activated microglia as assessed by patch-clamp recordings. In addition, P2X4 receptor blockade significantly reduced microglial membrane ruffling, TNF secretion and morphological changes, as well as LPS-induced microglial cell death. Accordingly, neuroinflammation provoked by LPS injection in vivo induced a rapid microglial loss in the spinal cord that was totally prevented or potentiated by P2X4 receptor blockade or facilitation, respectively. Within the brain, microglia in the hippocampal dentate gyrus showed particular vulnerability to LPS-induced neuroinflammation. Thus, microglia processes in this region retracted as early as 2 h after injection of LPS and died around 24 h later, two features which were prevented by blocking P2X4 receptors. Together, these data suggest that P2X4 receptors contribute to controlling the fate of activated microglia and its survival.


The relationship between auditory processing and language skills has been debated for decades. Previous findings have been inconsistent, both in typically developing and impaired subjects, including those with dyslexia or specific language impairment. Whether correlations between auditory and language skills are consistent between different populations has hardly been addressed at all. The present work presents an exploratory approach of testing for patterns of correlations in a range of measures of auditory processing. In a recent study, we reported findings from a large cohort of eleven-year olds on a range of auditory measures and the data supported a specific role for the processing of short sequences in pitch and time in typical language development. Here we tested whether a group of individuals with dyslexic traits (DT group; n = 28) from the same year group would show the same pattern of correlations between auditory and language skills as the typically developing group (TD group; n = 173). Regarding the raw scores, the DT group showed a significantly poorer performance on the language but not the auditory measures, including measures of pitch, time and rhythm, and timbre (modulation). In terms of correlations, there was a tendency to decrease in correlations between short-sequence processing and language skills, contrasted by a significant increase in correlation for basic, single-sound processing, in particular in the domain of modulation. The data support the notion that the fundamental relationship between auditory and language skills might differ in atypical compared to typical language development, with the implication that merging data or drawing inference between populations might be problematic. Further examination of the relationship between both basic sound feature analysis and music-like sound analysis and language skills in impaired populations might allow the development of appropriate training strategies. These might include types of musical training to augment language skills via their common bases in sound sequence analysis.
Studies over several decades have identified many of the neuronal substrates of music perception by pursuing pitch and rhythm perception separately. Here, we address the question of how these mechanisms interact, starting with the observation that the peripheral pathways of the so-called &quot;Core&quot; and &quot;Matrix&quot; thalamocortical system provide the anatomical bases for tone and rhythm channels. We then examine the hypothesis that these specialized inputs integrate acoustic content within rhythm context in auditory cortex using classical types of &quot;driving&quot; and &quot;modulatory&quot; mechanisms. This hypothesis provides a framework for deriving testable predictions about the early stages of music processing. Furthermore, because thalamocortical circuits are shared by speech and music processing, such a model provides concrete implications for how music experience contributes to the development of robust speech encoding mechanisms.
Songbirds spend much of their time learning, producing, and listening to complex vocal sequences we call songs. Songs are learned via cultural transmission, and singing, usually by males, has a strong impact on the behavioral state of the listeners, often promoting affiliation, pair bonding, or aggression. What is it in the acoustic structure of birdsong that makes it such a potent stimulus? We suggest that birdsong potency might be driven by principles similar to those that make music so effective in inducing emotional responses in humans: a combination of rhythms and pitches-and the transitions between acoustic states-affecting emotions through creating expectations, anticipations, tension, tension release, or surprise. Here we propose a framework for investigating how birdsong, like human music, employs the above &quot;musical&quot; features to affect the emotions of avian listeners. First we analyze songs of thrush nightingales (Luscinia luscinia) by examining their trajectories in terms of transitions in rhythm and pitch. These transitions show gradual escalations and graceful modifications, which are comparable to some aspects of human musicality. We then explore the feasibility of stripping such putative musical features from the songs and testing how this might affect patterns of auditory responses, focusing on fMRI data in songbirds that demonstrate the feasibility of such approaches. Finally, we explore ideas for investigating whether musical features of birdsong activate avian brains and affect avian behavior in manners comparable to music's effects on humans. In conclusion, we suggest that birdsong research would benefit from current advances in music theory by attempting to identify structures that are designed to elicit listeners' emotions and then testing for such effects experimentally. Birdsong research that takes into account the striking complexity of song structure in light of its more immediate function - to affect behavioral state in listeners - could provide a useful animal model for studying basic principles of music neuroscience in a system that is very accessible for investigation, and where developmental auditory and social experience can be tightly controlled.
The outer hair cells of the organ of Corti are the target of abundant efferent projections from the olivocochlear system. This peripheral efferent auditory subsystem is currently thought to be modulated by central activity via corticofugal descending auditory system, and to modulate active cochlear micromechanics. Although the function of this efferent subsystem remains unclear, physiological, psychophysical, and modeling data suggest that it may be involved in ear protection against noise damage and auditory perception, especially in the presence of background noise. Moreover, there is mounting evidence that its activity is modulated by auditory and visual attention. A commonly used approach to measure olivocochlear activity noninvasively in humans relies on the suppression of otoacoustic emissions by contralateral noise. Previous studies have found substantial interindividual variability in this effect, and statistical differences have been observed between professional musicians and non-musicians, with stronger bilateral suppression effects in the former. In this paper, we review these studies and discuss various possible interpretations for these findings, including experience-dependent neuroplasticity. We ask whether differences in olivocochlear function between musicians and non-musicians reflect differences in peripheral auditory function or in more central factors, such as top-down attentional modulation.
Experience-dependent characteristics of auditory function, especially with regard to speech-evoked auditory neurophysiology, have garnered increasing attention in recent years. This interest stems from both pragmatic and theoretical concerns as it bears implications for the prevention and remediation of language-based learning impairment in addition to providing insight into mechanisms engendering experience-dependent changes in human sensory function. Musicians provide an attractive model for studying the experience-dependency of auditory processing in humans due to their distinctive neural enhancements compared to nonmusicians. We have only recently begun to address whether these enhancements are observable early in life, during the initial years of music training when the auditory system is under rapid development, as well as later in life, after the onset of the aging process. Here we review neural enhancements in musically trained individuals across the life span in the context of cellular mechanisms that underlie learning, identified in animal models. Musicians' subcortical physiologic enhancements are interpreted according to a cognitive framework for auditory learning, providing a model in which to study mechanisms of experience-dependent changes in human auditory function.
Natural auditory environments contain multiple simultaneously-sounding objects and the auditory system must parse the incoming complex sound wave they collectively create into parts that represent each of these individual objects. Music often similarly requires processing of more than one voice or stream at the same time, and behavioral studies demonstrate that human listeners show a systematic perceptual bias in processing the highest voice in multi-voiced music. Here, we review studies utilizing event-related brain potentials (ERPs), which support the notions that (1) separate memory traces are formed for two simultaneous voices (even without conscious awareness) in auditory cortex and (2) adults show more robust encoding (i.e., larger ERP responses) to deviant pitches in the higher than in the lower voice, indicating better encoding of the former. Furthermore, infants also show this high-voice superiority effect, suggesting that the perceptual dominance observed across studies might result from neurophysiological characteristics of the peripheral auditory system. Although musically untrained adults show smaller responses in general than musically trained adults, both groups similarly show a more robust cortical representation of the higher than of the lower voice. Finally, years of experience playing a bass-range instrument reduces but does not reverse the high voice superiority effect, indicating that although it can be modified, it is not highly neuroplastic. Results of new modeling experiments examined the possibility that characteristics of middle-ear filtering and cochlear dynamics (e.g., suppression) reflected in auditory nerve firing patterns might account for the higher-voice superiority effect. Simulations show that both place and temporal AN coding schemes well-predict a high-voice superiority across a wide range of interval spacings and registers. Collectively, we infer an innate, peripheral origin for the higher-voice superiority observed in human ERP and psychophysical music listening studies.
Developmental dyslexia is associated with rhythmic difficulties, including impaired perception of beat patterns in music and prosodic stress patterns in speech. Spoken prosodic rhythm is cued by slow (&lt;10 Hz) fluctuations in speech signal amplitude. Impaired neural oscillatory tracking of these slow amplitude modulation (AM) patterns is one plausible source of impaired rhythm tracking in dyslexia. Here, we characterise the temporal profile of the dyslexic rhythm deficit by examining rhythmic entrainment at multiple speech timescales. Adult dyslexic participants completed two experiments aimed at testing the perception and production of speech rhythm. In the perception task, participants tapped along to the beat of 4 metrically-regular nursery rhyme sentences. In the production task, participants produced the same 4 sentences in time to a metronome beat. Rhythmic entrainment was assessed using both traditional rhythmic indices and a novel AM-based measure, which utilised 3 dominant AM timescales in the speech signal each associated with a different phonological grain-sized unit (0.9-2.5 Hz, prosodic stress; 2.5-12 Hz, syllables; 12-40 Hz, phonemes). The AM-based measure revealed atypical rhythmic entrainment by dyslexic participants to syllable patterns in speech, in perception and production. In the perception task, both groups showed equally strong phase-locking to Syllable AM patterns, but dyslexic responses were entrained to a significantly earlier oscillatory phase angle than controls. In the production task, dyslexic utterances showed shorter syllable intervals, and differences in Syllable:Phoneme AM cross-frequency synchronisation. Our data support the view that rhythmic entrainment at slow (5 Hz, Syllable) rates is atypical in dyslexia, suggesting that neural mechanisms for syllable perception and production may also be atypical. These syllable timing deficits could contribute to the atypical development of phonological representations for spoken words, the central cognitive characteristic of developmental dyslexia across languages.
Genetic variants in DTNBP1 encoding the protein dysbindin-1 have often been associated with schizophrenia and with the cognitive deficits prominent in that disorder. Because impaired function of the hippocampus is thought to play a role in these memory deficits and because NMDAR-dependent synaptic plasticity in this region is a proposed biological substrate for some hippocampal-dependent memory functions in schizophrenia, we hypothesized that reduced dysbindin-1 expression would lead to impairments in NMDAR-dependent synaptic plasticity and in contextual fear conditioning. Acute slices from male mice carrying 0, 1, or 2 null mutant alleles of the Dtnbp1 gene were prepared, and field recordings from the CA1 striatum radiatum were obtained before and after tetanization of Schaffer collaterals of CA3 pyramidal cells. Mice homozygous for the null mutation in Dtnbp1 exhibited significantly reduced NMDAR-dependent synaptic potentiation compared to wild type mice, an effect that could be rescued by bath application of the NMDA receptor coagonist glycine (10 M). Behavioral testing in adult mice revealed deficits in hippocampal memory processes. Homozygous null mice exhibited lower conditional freezing, without a change in the response to shock itself, indicative of a learning and memory deficit. Taken together, these results indicate that a loss of dysbindin-1 impairs hippocampal plasticity which may, in part, explain the role dysbindin-1 plays in the cognitive impairments of schizophrenia.
New neurons are continuously produced in the subgranular zone of the adult hippocampus and can modulate hippocampal plasticity across life. Adolescence is characterized by dramatic changes in sex hormone levels, and social and emotional behaviors. It is also an age for increased risk of psychiatric disorders, including schizophrenia, which may involve altered hippocampal neurogenesis. The extent to which testosterone and other testicular hormones modulate hippocampal neurogenesis and adolescent behavioral development is unclear. This study aimed to determine if removal of testicular hormones during adolescence alters neurogenesis in the male rhesus macaque hippocampus. We used stereology to examine levels of cell proliferation, cell survival and neuronal differentiation in late adolescent male rhesus macaques (4.6-yrs old) that had previously been gonadectomized or sham operated prior to puberty (2.4-yrs old). While the absence of adolescent testicular hormones had no effect on cell proliferation, cell survival was increased by 65% and indices of immature neuronal differentiation were increased by 56% in gonadectomized monkeys compared to intact monkeys. We show for the first time that presence of circulating testicular hormones, including testosterone, may decrease neuronal survival in the primate hippocampus during adolescence. Our findings are in contrast to existing studies in adults where testosterone tends to be a pro-survival factor and demonstrate that testicular hormones may reduce hippocampal neurogenesis during the age typical of schizophrenia onset.
Matrix metalloproteases (MMP) play a pivotal role in long-term synaptic plasticity, learning, and memory. The roles of different MMP subtypes are emerging, but the proteolytic activity of certain MMPs was shown to support these processes through the structural and functional modification of hippocampal Schaeffer collateral and mossy fiber (MF) synapses. However, certain patterns of synaptic activity are additionally associated with non-synaptic changes, such as the scaling of neuronal excitability. However, the extent to which MMPs affect this process remains unknown. We determined whether MMP activity interferes with excitatory post-synaptic potential EPSP-to-spike (E-S) coupling under conditions of varying synaptic activity. We evoked short- and long-term synaptic plasticity at associational/commissural (A/C) synapses of CA3 pyramidal neurons and simultaneously recorded population spikes (PSs) and EPSPs in acute rat (P30-60) brain slices in the presence of various MMP inhibitors. We found that MMP inhibition significantly reduced E-S coupling and shortened the PS latency associated with 4 100 Hz stimulation or paired burst activity of MF-CA3 and A/C synapses. Moreover, MMP inhibition interfered with the scaling of amplitude of measured signals during high-frequency trains, thus affecting the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP). The inhibition of L-type voltage-gated calcium channels with 20 M nifedipine or GABA-A receptors with 1-30 M picrotoxin did not occlude the effects of MMP inhibitors. However, MMP inhibition significantly reduced the LTP of NMDA receptor-mediated EPSPs. Finally, the analysis of LTP saturation with multiple single (1 100 Hz) or packed (4 100 Hz) trains indicated that MMPs support E-S coupling evoked by selected synaptic activity patterns and set the ceiling for tetanically evoked E-S LTP. In conclusion, the activity of MMPs, particularly MMP-3, regulated the magnitude of EPSPs and spike plasticity in the CA3 network and may affect information processing. Our data provide a novel link between MMP activity and neural excitability. Therefore, by limiting the number of firing neurons, MMP may functionally act beyond the synapse.
In vertebrates, glucocorticoids mediate a wide-range of responses to stressors. For this reason, they are implicated in adaptation to changes in predation pressure. Trinidadian guppies (Poecilia reticulata) from high-predation environments have repeatedly and independently colonized and adapted to low-predation environments, resulting in parallel changes in life history, morphology, and behavior. We validated methods for non-invasive waterborne hormone sample collection in this species, and used this technique to examine genetic and environmental effects of predation on basal glucocorticoid (cortisol) levels. To examine genetic differences, we compared waterborne cortisol levels in high- and low-predation fish from two distinct population pairs. We found that fish from high-predation localities had lower cortisol levels than their low-predation counterparts. To isolate environmental influences, we compared waterborne cortisol levels in genetically similar fish reared with and without exposure to predator chemical cues. We found that fish reared with predator chemical cues had lower waterborne cortisol levels than those reared without. Comparisons of waterborne and whole-body cortisol levels demonstrated that populations differed in overall cortisol levels in the body, whereas rearing conditions altered the release of cortisol from the body into the water. Thus, evolutionary history with predators and lifetime exposure to predator cues were both associated with lower cortisol release, but depended on distinct physiological mechanisms.
Estradiol-17 (E2) synthesized in the brain plays a critical role in the activation of sexual behavior in many vertebrate species. Because E2 concentrations depend on aromatization of testosterone, changes in aromatase enzymatic activity (AA) are often utilized as a proxy to describe E2 concentrations. Utilizing two types of stimuli (sexual interactions and acute restraint stress) that have been demonstrated to reliably alter AA within minutes in opposite directions (sexual interactions=decrease, stress=increase), we tested in Japanese quail whether rapid changes in AA are paralleled by changes in E2 concentrations in discrete brain areas. In males, E2 in the pooled medial preoptic nucleus/medial portion of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (POM/BST) positively correlated with AA following sexual interactions. However, following acute stress, E2 decreased significantly (approximately 2-fold) in the male POM/BST despite a significant increase in AA. In females, AA positively correlated with E2 in both the POM/BST and mediobasal hypothalamus supporting a role for local, as opposed to ovarian, production regulating brain E2 concentrations. In addition, correlations of individual E2 in POM/BST and measurements of female sexual behavior suggested a role for local E2 synthesis in female receptivity. These data demonstrate that local E2 in the male brain changes in response to stimuli on a time course suggestive of potential non-genomic effects on brain and behavior. Overall, this study highlights the complex mechanisms regulating local E2 concentrations including rapid stimulus-driven changes in production and stress-induced changes in catabolism.
Exposure of developing female rats to estradiol during the perinatal period induced long-lasting dysregulation of gonadal axis and decreased cerebrocortical and plasma concentrations of allopregnanolone. We have now examined the effects of neonatal estradiol administration in female rats on hypothalamic allopregnanolone concentrations and on exploratory, affective, agonistic and sexual behaviors as well as social learning. A single administration of -estradiol 3-benzoate (EB, 10g) on the day of birth resulted in a delay of vaginal opening, acyclicity and ovarian failure. These alterations were associated with a significant decrease in the concentrations of allopregnanolone in the hypothalamus at 21 and 60days, but not at 7days, after birth. Neonatal administration of EB also increased agonistic behaviors in adult rats, such as dominant behaviors and following of an ovariectomized intruder, while living attacks unaffected. EB-treated rats showed also an increase in anogenital investigation, associated with a drastic reduction in spontaneous and induced female sexual behaviors (receptivity and proceptivity). In contrast, neonatal administration of EB did not affect locomotor activity, anxiety- and mood-related behaviors, the social transmission of flavor preferences, and seizures sensitivity. These effects of estradiol suggest that it plays a major role in regulation of both the abundance of allopregnanolone and the expression of agonistic and sexual behaviors, while failing to influence affective behaviors and social learning. Thus, the pronounced and persistent decrease in hypothalamic allopregnanolone concentration may be related to the manifestation of agonistic and sexual behaviors.
Thyroid hormone levels are implicated in mood disorders in the adult human but the mechanisms remain unclear partly because, in rodent models, more attention has been paid to the consequences of perinatal hypo and hyperthyroidism. Thyroid hormones act via the thyroid hormone receptor (TR)  and  isoforms, both of which are expressed in the limbic system. TR's modulate gene expression via both unliganded and liganded actions. Though the thyroid hormone receptor (TR) knockouts and a transgenic TR1 knock-in mouse have provided us valuable insight into behavioral phenotypes such as anxiety and depression, it is not clear if this is because of the loss of unliganded actions or liganded actions of the receptor or due to locomotor deficits. We used a hypothyroid mouse model and supplementation with tri-iodothyronine (T3) or thyroxine (T4) to investigate the consequences of dysthyroid hormone levels on behaviors that denote anxiety. Our data from the open field and the light-dark transition tests suggest that adult onset hypothyroidism in male mice produces a mild anxiogenic effect that is possibly due to unliganded receptor actions. T3 or T4 supplementation reverses this phenotype and euthyroid animals show anxiety that is intermediate between the hypothyroid and thyroid hormone supplemented groups. In addition, T3 but not T4 supplemented animals have lower spine density in the CA1 region of the hippocampus and in the central amygdala suggesting that T3-mediated rescue of the hypothyroid state might be due to lower neuronal excitability in the limbic circuit.

Rapid changes in societal and environmental conditions mean that many health issues remain unresolved, especially in the realms of childhood social-emotional and mental problems. These problems threaten to affect the future development of affected children. Therefore, this article introduces the new perspective on gene-environment interactions and epigenetics in neuroscience, the definition of resilience, and current developments in related research. This article further integrates the literature to identify the association of resilience in children's emotional and behavioral adjustment. These evidence-based studies demonstrate the significance of resilience intervention and assessment in psychiatric nursing. These developments hold the potential to upgrade clinical applications and enhance the development of individuals.
Resting state brain activity, as measured with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in the absence of stimulation, is widely investigated in clinical, pharmacological, developmental and cross-species neuroscience research. However, despite the general and broad interest in understating the nature of resting state networks (RSNs), there has not been a thorough investigation into the relationship between these functional networks and their adherence to underling brain anatomy. We acquired resting state fMRI data from 10 subjects and extracted individual and group RSN maps respectively using independent component analysis (ICA) and self organising group-level ICA (sogICA). Cortex based alignment (CBA), an advanced surface based alignment technique which uses individual curvature information to align individual subjects' brains to a dynamic group average, was used to maximise anatomical correspondence across subjects. Cross subject spatial correlations of the RSN maps (independent components) were carried out with and without CBA. Seven RSNs, which are amongst the most reported and studied networks, were identified. We observed a systematic gain in the spatial correlation in all of them following CBA, although this gain was not uniform across RSNs. The observed increase in similarity of the functional RSNs after anatomical alignment illustrates that these functional networks are indeed related to underlying macroanatomical features. Moreover, our results demonstrate that by correcting for individual anatomical differences, advanced surface based alignment techniques increase the overlap of corresponding resting state networks across subjects, thereby providing a useful means to improve resting state group statistics with no need for substantial smoothing.
Loss in insight is a major feature of frontotemporal dementia (FTD) but has been investigated relatively little. More importantly, the neural basis of insight loss is still poorly understood. The current study investigated insight deficit profiles across a large cohort of neurodegenerative patients (n = 81), including FTD and Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. We employed a novel insight questionnaire, which tapped into changes across different domains: social interaction, emotion, diagnosis/treatment, language, and motivation. FTD subtypes varied considerably for insight loss, with the behavioral variant worst and the progressive non-fluent variant least affected. All other subtypes and AD showed milder but consistent insight loss. Voxel-based morphometry analysis revealed that overall insight loss correlated with ventromedial and frontopolar prefrontal atrophy, with exception of social interaction and emotion insight loss, which additionally correlated with lateral temporal and amygdala atrophy, respectively. Our results show that patients with neurodegenerative conditions show variable loss of insight, with ventromedial and frontopolar cortex regions appearing to be particularly important for insight.
Several studies have shown activation of the mirror neuron system (MNS), comprising the temporal, posterior parietal, and sensorimotor areas when observing plausible actions, but far less is known on how these cortical areas interact during the recognition of a plausible action. Here, we recorded neural activity with magnetoencephalography while subjects viewed point-light displays of biologically plausible and scrambled versions of actions. We were interested in modulations of oscillatory activity and, specifically, in coupling of oscillatory activity between visual and motor areas. Both plausible and scrambled actions elicited modulations of  (5-7 Hz),  (7-13 Hz),  (13-35 Hz), and  (55-100 Hz) power within visual and motor areas. When comparing between the two actions, we observed sequential and spatially distinct increases of  (65 Hz),  (25 Hz), and  (11 Hz) power between 0.5 and 1.3 s in parieto-occipital, sensorimotor, and left temporal areas. In addition, significant clusters of  (65 Hz) and / (15 Hz) power decrease were observed in right temporal and parieto-occipital areas between 1.3 and 2.0 s. We found -power in sensorimotor areas to be positively correlated on a trial-by-trial basis with parieto-occipital  and left temporal -power for the plausible but not for the scrambled condition. These results provide new insights in the neuronal oscillatory activity of the areas involved in the recognition of plausible action movements and their interaction. The power correlations between specific areas underscore the importance of interactions between visual and motor areas of the MNS during the recognition of a plausible action.

In previous functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies concerning romantic love, several brain regions including the caudate and putamen have consistently been found to be more responsive to beloved-related than control stimuli. In those studies, infatuated individuals were typically instructed to passively view the stimuli or to think of the viewed person. In the current study, we examined how the instruction to attend to, or ignore the beloved modulates the response of these brain areas. Infatuated individuals performed an oddball task in which pictures of their beloved and friend served as targets and distractors. The dorsal striatum showed greater activation for the beloved than friend, but only when they were targets. The dorsal striatum actually tended to show less activation for the beloved than the friend when they were distractors. The longer the love and relationship duration, the smaller the response of the dorsal striatum to beloved-distractor stimuli was. We interpret our findings in terms of reinforcement learning. By virtue of using a cognitive task with a full factorial design, we show that the dorsal striatum is not activated by beloved-related information per se, but only by beloved-related information that is attended.
In natural viewing conditions, different stimulus categories such as people, objects, and natural scenes carry relevant affective information that is usually processed simultaneously. But these different signals may not always have the same affective meaning. Using body-scene compound stimuli, we investigated how the brain processes fearful signals conveyed by either a body in the foreground or scenes in the background and the interaction between foreground body and background scene. The results showed that left and right extrastriate body areas (EBA) responded more to fearful than to neutral bodies. More interestingly, a threatening background scene compared to a neutral one showed increased activity in bilateral EBA and right-posterior parahippocampal place area (PPA) and decreased activity in right retrosplenial cortex (RSC) and left-anterior PPA. The emotional scene effect in EBA was only present when the foreground body was neutral and not when the body posture expressed fear (significant emotion-by-category interaction effect), consistent with behavioral ratings. The results provide evidence for emotional influence of the background scene on the processing of body expressions.
Quantities can be represented using either mathematical language (i.e., numbers) or natural language (i.e., quantifiers). Previous studies have shown that numerical processing elicits greater activation in the brain regions around the intraparietal sulcus (IPS) relative to other semantic processes. However, little research has been conducted to investigate whether the IPS is also critical for the semantic processing of quantifiers in natural language. In this study, 20 adults were scanned with functional magnetic resonance imaging while they performed semantic distance judgment involving six types of materials (i.e., frequency adverbs, quantity pronouns and nouns, animal names, Arabic digits, number words, and dot arrays). Conjunction analyses of brain activation showed that numbers and dot arrays elicited greater activation in the right IPS than did words (i.e., animal names) or quantifiers (i.e., frequency adverbs and quantity pronouns and nouns). Quantifiers elicited more activation in left middle temporal gyrus and inferior frontal gyrus than did numbers and dot arrays. No differences were found between quantifiers and animal names. These findings suggest that, although quantity processing for numbers and dot arrays typically relies on the right IPS region, quantity processing for quantifiers typically relies on brain regions for general semantic processing. Thus, the IPS does not appear to be the only brain region for quantity processing.
Motor imagery (MI) is often used in combination with neuroimaging techniques to study the cognitive control of gait. However, imagery ability (IA) varies widely across individuals, potentially influencing the pattern of cerebral recruitment during MI. The aim of the current study was to investigate this effect of IA on the neural correlates of gait control using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Twenty healthy young subjects were subdivided into a good and bad imagers group, on the basis of their performance on two mental chronometry tests. For the whole group, MI activated a bilateral network of areas highly consistent with previous studies, encompassing primary motor cortex (BA 4), supplementary motor area, and other frontal and parietal areas, anterior insula, and cerebellum. Compared to bad imagers, good imagers showed higher activation in the right BA 4, left prefrontal cortex (BA 10), right thalamus, and bilateral cerebellum. Good imagers thus appear better able to recruit motor areas during MI, but also activate a prefrontal executive area (BA 10), which integrates information from the body and the environment and participates in higher-order gait control. These differences were found even though the two groups did not differ in other imagery abilities according to a standard questionnaire for vividness of motor and visual imagery. Future studies on MI should take into account these effects, and control for IA when comparing different populations, using appropriate measures. A better understanding of the neural mechanisms that underlie MI ability is crucial to accurately evaluate locomotor skills in clinical measures and neurorehabilitation techniques.
Relapse presents a significant problem for patients recovering from stimulant dependence. Here we examined the hypothesis that patterns of brain function obtained at an early stage of abstinence differentiates patients who later relapse versus those who remain abstinent. Forty-five recently abstinent stimulant-dependent patients were tested using a randomized event-related functional MRI (ER-fMRI) design that was developed in order to replicate a previous ERP study of relapse using a selective attention task, and were then monitored until 6 months of verified abstinence or stimulant use occurred. SPM revealed smaller absolute blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) response amplitude in bilateral ventral posterior cingulate and right insular cortex in 23 patients positive for relapse to stimulant use compared with 22 who remained abstinent. ER-fMRI, psychiatric, neuropsychological, demographic, personal and family history of drug use were compared in order to form predictive models. ER-fMRI was found to predict abstinence with higher accuracy than any other single measure obtained in this study. Logistic regression using fMRI amplitude in right posterior cingulate and insular cortex predicted abstinence with 77.8% accuracy, which increased to 89.9% accuracy when history of mania was included. Using 10-fold cross-validation, Bayesian logistic regression and multilayer perceptron algorithms provided the highest accuracy of 84.4%. These results, combined with previous studies, suggest that the functional organization of paralimbic brain regions including ventral anterior and posterior cingulate and right insula are related to patients' ability to maintain abstinence. Novel therapies designed to target these paralimbic regions identified using ER-fMRI may improve treatment outcome.
The hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology is an accumulation of amyloid  (A) and phosphorylated tau, which are encoded by the amyloid precursor protein (APP) and microtubule-associated protein tau (MAPT) genes, respectively. Less than 5% of all AD cases are familial in nature, i.e. caused by mutations in APP, PSEN1 or PSEN2. Almost all mutations found in them are related to an overproduction of A1-42, which is prone to aggregation. While these genes are mutation free, their function, or those of related genes, could be compromised in sporadic AD as well. In this study, pyrosequencing analysis of post-mortem brains revealed aberrant CpG methylation in APP, MAPT and GSK3B genes of the AD brain. These changes were further evaluated by a newly developed in vitro-specific DNA methylation system, which in turn highlighted an enhanced expression of APP and MAPT. Cell nucleus sorting of post-mortem brains revealed that the methylation changes of APP and MAPT occurred in both neuronal and non-neuronal cells, whereas GSK3B was abnormally methylated in non-neuronal cells. Further analysis revealed an association between abnormal APP CpG methylation and apolipoprotein E 4 allele (APOE 4)-negative cases. The presence of a small number of highly methylated neurons among normal neurons contribute to the methylation difference in APP and MAPT CpGs, thus abnormally methylated cells could compromise the neural circuit and/or serve as 'seed cells' for abnormal protein propagation. Our results provide a link between familial AD genes and sporadic neuropathology, thus emphasizing an epigenetic pathomechanism for sporadic AD.
The oxidation-sensitive chaperone protein DJ-1 has been implicated in several human disorders including cancer and neurodegenerative diseases. During neurodegeneration associated with protein misfolding, such as that observed in Alzheimer's disease and Huntington's disease (HD), both oxidative stress and protein chaperones have been shown to modulate disease pathways. Therefore, we set out to investigate whether DJ-1 plays a role in HD. We found that DJ-1 expression and its oxidation state are abnormally increased in the human HD brain, as well as in mouse and cell models of HD. Furthermore, overexpression of DJ-1 conferred protection in vivo against neurodegeneration in yeast and Drosophila. Importantly, the DJ-1 protein directly interacted with an expanded fragment of huntingtin Exon 1 (httEx1) in test tube experiments and in cell models and accelerated polyglutamine aggregation and toxicity in an oxidation-sensitive manner. Our findings clearly establish DJ-1 as a potential therapeutic target for HD and provide the basis for further studies into the role of DJ-1 in protein misfolding diseases.
In this study, the handwriting performances of dysgraphic children were compared to those of proficient children and adults. The task consisted in writing a single word at normal and fast speeds. A distinction was made between two kinds of pauses, which are often confounded: pen lifts, when the pen is above the paper, and pen stops, when it is immobile on the paper. The number and duration of lifts and stops were analyzed, together with the mean velocity. No difference in the number of lifts was observed between the three groups of writers, but the lift durations were shorter for adults. While dysgraphic children were able to write as fast as proficient children, their stops were more numerous and longer than those of proficient children who, themselves, made more stops than adults. A distinction was made between short, normal, and long, abnormal, stops. The results of this study suggest that pen stops are more appropriate than pen lifts in differentiating the handwriting fluency of dysgraphic and proficient children.
Successful motor performance requires a process of response selection that chooses the correct response out of a set of possible ones. Most theories of response selection assume that this selection process operates on spatial codes, which define the location of stimuli and responses in environmental coordinates, with little or no role for the anatomical codes of the effectors involved. In this study, we tested this assumption by investigating response-repetition effects in a response-cuing paradigm using two motor sets (fingers on one hand vs. fingers on two hands). Reaction time results demonstrated a robust response-repetition benefit that was greater for the one-hand set than for the two-hands set. Furthermore, with the one-hand set the repetition benefit was independent of cue type and cue-stimulus interval on the previous trial, whereas with the two-hands set it was strongly modulated by these two factors. These differential response-repetition effects for one- and two-hands motor sets demonstrate the important role of the neuro-anatomical hand distinction in response selection, thereby supporting multiple coding notions.
Although there is general agreement in the sport science community that the focus of attention (FOA) has significant effects on performance, there is some debate about whether or not the FOA adopted during training affects learning. A large number of studies on the focus of attention have shown that subjects who train with an external FOA perform better on subsequent retention and transfer tests. However, the FOA in these studies was not experimentally controlled during testing. Therefore, the current study used a dart-throwing paradigm in which the FOA was experimentally manipulated at both acquisition and testing over very short and long training times. Performance at test, in terms of accuracy and precision, was improved by adopting an external focus at test regardless of the focus instructed during acquisition, in both Experiment 1 and 2. Although an effect of acquisition focus during testing in Experiment 2 provides some evidence that FOA affects learning, the current data demonstrate a much stronger effect for performance than learning, and stronger effects of attention on precision than accuracy. Theoretical implications of these results are discussed, but in general these data provide a more nuanced understanding of how attentional focus instructions influence motor learning and performance.
Midlife hypertension is a risk factor for dementia, but little is known about the cognitive trajectories of individuals with incident hypertension. This study follows the cognitive functioning in prevalent and incident hypertension for 12 years and in relation to age and treatment status. Cognitively intact adults aged 25 to 84 years (n=1805) were serially assessed at baseline, 6 years, and 12 years. Hypertension was defined by sphygmomanometry or antihypertensive medication use, and its association with cognitive decline was tested in random-effects models. At baseline, 638 (35.3%) participants had hypertension. They showed faster decline in memory ((2) test for homogeneity=35.75; df=2; P&lt;0.001), executive functions ((2)=21.68; df=2; P&lt;0.001), and information processing speed ((2)=81.96; df= 2; P&lt;0.001) than baseline normotensive participants. At follow-up, 352 individuals (30.2%) developed incident hypertension. They showed faster decline in memory ((2)=7.88; df=2; P=0.019) and information processing speed ((2)= 18.06; df=2; P&lt;0.001), especially from 6- to 12-year follow-up. Effects were most pronounced and widespread in midlife for both prevalent and incident hypertension and in those with untreated and uncontrolled hypertension. This study shows that incident hypertension predicts cognitive decline in middle-aged individuals, and those with poorly controlled blood pressure are most at risk. In newly diagnosed individuals, decline evolves gradually, possibly opening a window for early intervention.
Recently, magnetoencephalography (MEG)-based real-time brain computing interfaces (BCI) have been developed to enable novel and promising methods of neuroscience research and therapy. Artifact rejection prior to source localization largely enhances the localization accuracy. However, many BCI approaches neglect real-time artifact removal due to its time consuming processing. With cardiac artifact rejection for real-time analysis (CARTA), we introduce a novel algorithm capable of real-time cardiac artifact (CA) rejection. The method is based on constrained independent component analysis (ICA), where a priori information of the underlying source signal is used to optimize and accelerate signal decomposition. In CARTA, this is performed by estimating the subject's individual density distribution of the cardiac activity, which leads to a subject-specific signal decomposition algorithm. We show that the new method is capable of effectively reducing CAs within one iteration and a time delay of 1 ms. In contrast, Infomax and Extended Infomax ICA converged not until seven iterations, while FastICA needs at least ten iterations. CARTA was tested and applied to data from three different but most common MEG systems (4-D-Neuroimaging, VSM MedTech Inc., and Elekta Neuromag). Therefore, the new method contributes to reliable signal analysis utilizing BCI approaches.
A combination of near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) and electrocorticography (ECoG) provides beneficial information on cortical activity from different aspects. Integration of such multimodal measurement capability into a single apparatus and the direct measurement of cortical activity during chronic subdural implantation may be a powerful means for clinical diagnosis and neuroscience. However, an optical fiber-based NIRS probe cannot be miniaturized for implantation into the brain, and the light-scattering effect of ECoG electrodes in NIRS measurements is unknown. We describe here the development of a flexible probe, small enough for chronic subdural implantation, for simultaneous NIRS and ECoG. Two light-emitting diodes of different wavelengths and two photodiodes were mounted on a polyimide-based flexible substrate, and ECoG electrodes were formed with a design minimizing artifacts in NIRS recording. The fabricated probe measured ECoGs at sufficient spatial resolution and submicromolar changes in hemoglobin concentrations in in vivo experiments with acute implantation into a rat. Comparison of measured changes in hemoglobin concentrations for different source-detector distances reveals the reliability of the measured values and the practicality of the simulation model. The proposed intracranial multimodality probe may provide beneficial evidence for pre- and intrasurgical assessment of neurosurgery and reveal the interaction of electrophysiology and hemodynamics at high spatial resolution without artifacts due to scalp blood flow.

Calcium calmodulin dependent protein ser/thr phosphatase, also referred to as protein phosphatase 2B (PP2B), is rich in neural tissue, and plays an important role in the overall function of the nervous system. Routinely phosphatase assay employs, para-Nitrophenlylphosphate (p-NPP), as a substrate, is also extended to assay PP2B. However, in the present study, the differential spectral characterstic property of tyrosine and phopshotyrosine has been exploited to employ the latter as a candidate substrate for the PP2B assay. The specific activity of PP2B using phosphortyrosine in bovine Bos Taurus indicus brain extract (Bos Taurus indicus), was measured in presence of different metal ions like Ca(2+), Mn(2+) and Mg(2+). Further modulators like dithiothreitol (DTT), calmodulin (CaM) and metal chelators such as EGTA and EDTA were applied to confirm the role of divalent cations and to determine calcium calmodulin dependent phoshphatase activity. PP2B activity was higher with phosphotyrosine in presence of Ca(2+) than with p-NPP. Further experiments, involving calmodulin as a modulator, confirmed phosphotyrosine as a better substrate over p-NPP. Calmodulin further enhanced the effect of phosphotyrosine as a potential substrate confirming calcium calmodulin dependent phosphatase activity. Phosphotyrosine is proposed as a better substrate in assaying calcium dependent phosphatase activity when compared to para-nitrophenylphosphate.
Patellar tendon rerupture is a relatively uncommon condition that severely compromises the function of the extensor mechanism of the knee. Few cases described in the literature does not show a unique mode of treatment for this type of lesion. We report the case of a young athlete with traumatic patellar tendon rerupture. The first rupture was treated with the use of Statak anchors. Following a second rerupture incident as a result of a sporting accodent, the tendon was reconstructed with the use of an autologous graft tendon of semitendinosus and biological augmentation with gracilis tendon. For both tendons the distal insertion part was preserved to facilitate the healing process. The treatment was completed with the application of a neutralization cerclage wire and with local injection of plateket reach plasma (PRP). At 12 months follow up, a full recovery of the structure and function of the extensor mechanism was observed and the patient was able to resume normal sports competitive activity.
The success of prosthetic surgery has led to an increase in the percentage of the population having more than one prosthetic implant. This, combined with an increase in the average life expectancy and functional requirements for the elderly, has led to a higher incidence of periprosthetic and interprosthetic fractures. More precisely, the femoral shaft is compressed between two ipsilateral implants with most of these fractures being located on the supracondylar femoral shaft. Their treatment is not only technically demanding and challenging, but can also be associated with serious complications. Treatment must be determined and assessed according to the type of fracture, the stability of the prosthesis, the bone quality and the general condition of the patient. There is little information in the literature about this type of injury: there are several published case reports detailing unconventional solutions and the case studies presented are limited and not significant. This review aims to provide an updated and comprehensive list of diagnostic and therapeutic protocols accepted today, while recognising that these protocols are being continuously updated according to experience gained.
Cladribine is a purine nucleoside analog developed to treat lymphoid malignancies. Reported therapeutic benefits for the autoimmune disease multiple sclerosis indicate additional immunomodulatory effects beyond the well-characterized cytotoxic activity causing lymphopenia. Here, we demonstrate that cladribine reduces the secretion of inflammatory cytokines and chemokines by murine and human dendritic cells, the most potent antigen-presenting cells. This compound also modulates the expression of the activation markers CD86 and MHC II. Furthermore, cladribine affects the T cell priming capacity of dendritic cells, resulting in reduced induction of interferon-- and tumor necrosis factor--producing T cells and increased induction of interleukin-10-producing T cells. These effects, observed at cladribine concentrations in the therapeutically relevant range of serum steady-state concentrations for leukemia and multiple sclerosis, confirm the immunomodulatory activity of cladribine.


The development of the brain is structure-specific, and the growth rate of each structure differs depending on the age of the subject. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is often used to evaluate brain development because of the high spatial resolution and contrast that enable the observation of structure-specific developmental status. Currently, most clinical MRIs are evaluated qualitatively to assist in the clinical decision-making and diagnosis. The clinical MRI report usually does not provide quantitative values that can be used to monitor developmental status. Recently, the importance of image quantification to detect and evaluate mild-to-moderate anatomical abnormalities has been emphasized because these alterations are possibly related to several psychiatric disorders and learning disabilities. In the research arena, structural MRI and diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) have been widely applied to quantify brain development of the pediatric population. To interpret the values from these MR modalities, a &quot;growth percentile chart,&quot; which describes the mean and standard deviation of the normal developmental curve for each anatomical structure, is required. Although efforts have been made to create such a growth percentile chart based on MRI and DTI, one of the greatest challenges is to standardize the anatomical boundaries of the measured anatomical structures. To avoid inter- and intra-reader variability about the anatomical boundary definition, and hence, to increase the precision of quantitative measurements, an automated structure parcellation method, customized for the neonatal and pediatric population, has been developed. This method enables quantification of multiple MR modalities using a common analytic framework. In this paper, the attempt to create an MRI- and a DTI-based growth percentile chart, followed by an application to investigate developmental abnormalities related to cerebral palsy, Williams syndrome, and Rett syndrome, have been introduced. Future directions include multimodal image analysis and personalization for clinical application.
Developmental abnormalities of optic nerve are the leading cause of child blindness. The goal of this study was to use diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) to characterize the optic nerve development of non-human primates during the normal maturation from birth to adulthood. Forty healthy rhesus monkeys aged from 2 weeks to 6 years old were scanned with a clinical 3T scanner. It was demonstrated that the DTI parameters followed an exponential pattern during optic nerve maturation. The time constants of mean diffusivity (MD), fractional anisotropy (FA), axial diffusivity () and radial diffusivity () were 16, 14, 18 and 15 months in rhesus monkeys, respectively. Significant decrease in RD was observed firstly at 12 months after birth (p&lt;0.05). No significant differences were observed between the left and right optic nerves in any age group. The in vivo imaging results reveal the normal evolution patterns of DTI parameters during optic nerve maturation in primates. The data might be used as a reference in the examination of optic nerve developmental abnormalities or injury in children or preclinical studies.





Nitric oxide (NO) is a gaseous neurotransmitter that plays a significant role in the establishment and refinement of functional neural circuits. Genetic and post-mortem studies have suggested that neuronal NO synthase (NOS-1) activity may be compromised in frontal and temporal lobes, and related structures, in schizophrenia. The goal of this study was to determine if there is a link between neonatal disruptions in NO signalling and disturbances in the development and function of prefrontal-temporolimbic circuits. Neonatal rats were injected on postnatal days PD3-5 with the selective NOS-1 inhibitor N-propyl-L-arginine (NPA) and tested in adulthood (PD60) or as juveniles (PD30). Adult rats treated with NPA as neonates exhibited increased amphetamine-induced locomotion compared to animals receiving vehicle as neonates, whereas this was not observed in juvenile rats treated with NPA as neonates. Adult rats exposed to NPA as neonates also exhibited deficits in social interaction and short-term recognition memory, as well as reduced brain weight, compared to vehicle-treated controls. Finally, neonatal NPA exposure increased the responsiveness of nucleus accumbens neurons to prefrontal cortical input and disrupted the modulation of cortico-accumbens circuits by hippocampal afferents that is normally observed in adult animals. These results show for the first time that neonatal inhibition of NOS-1 during a critical neurodevelopmental period leads to aberrant behaviours that manifest in adulthood, as well as electrophysiological abnormalities in prefrontal-temporolimbic circuits. Greater understanding of the role of NOS-1 in the development of these circuits will shed light on how developmental insults translate to pathophysiology associated with schizophrenia.
Increases in alpha calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase type II (CaMKII) activity in the nucleus accumbens shell has been proposed as a core component in the motivation to self-administer cocaine and in priming-induced drug-seeking. Since cocaine withdrawal promotes drug-seeking, we hypothesized that abstinence from cocaine self-administration should enhance CaMKII as well. We found that short-term abstinence from contingent, but not non-contingent, cocaine i.v. self-administration (2 h/d for 14 d; 0.25 mg/0.1 ml, 6 s infusion) elevates CaMKII autophosphorylation, but not the kinase expression, in a dynamic, time- and brain region-dependent manner. Increased CaMKII autophosphorylation in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) and medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), but not dorsolateral striatum (dlS), was found 24 h, but not immediately, after the last cocaine self-administration session. Notably, in the mPFC, but not NAc and dlS, CaMKII autophosphorylation was still enhanced 7 d later. The persistent enhancement in the mPFC of abstinent rats may represent a previously unappreciated contribution to initial incubation of cocaine-seeking.




The journal Psychological Science (PS) has undergone various changes over 22years since its birth in 1990. Analysis of Web of Science's records shows that the publication has increased in volume and collaborations between authors, and has become more international. Keyword analysis suggests the new role of neuroscience in contemporary psychology and indicates that the PS of today is more oriented than in the 1990s towards psychosocial and emotional issues as well as natural situations in our daily lives (ecological validity).
Prior research suggests that event-related potentials (ERP) obtained during active and passive auditory paradigms, which have demonstrated abnormal neurocognitive function in schizophrenia, may provide helpful tools in predicting transition to psychosis. In addition to ERP measures, reduced modulations of EEG alpha, reflecting top-down control required to inhibit irrelevant information, have revealed attentional deficits in schizophrenia and its prodromal stage. Employing a three-stimulus novelty oddball task, nose-referenced 48-channel ERPs were recorded from 22 clinical high-risk (CHR) patients and 20 healthy controls detecting target tones (12% probability, 500Hz; button press) among nontargets (76%, 350Hz) and novel sounds (12%). After current source density (CSD) transformation of EEG epochs (-200 to 1000ms), event-related spectral perturbations were obtained for each site up to 30Hz and 800ms after stimulus onset, and simplified by unrestricted time-frequency (TF) principal components analysis (PCA). Alpha event-related desynchronization (ERD) as measured by TF factor 610-9 (spectral peak latency at 610ms and 9Hz; 31.9% variance) was prominent over right posterior regions for targets, and markedly reduced in CHR patients compared to controls, particularly in three patients who later developed psychosis. In contrast, low-frequency event-related synchronization (ERS) distinctly linked to novels (260-1; 16.0%; mid-frontal) and N1 sink across conditions (130-1; 3.4%; centro-temporoparietal) did not differ between groups. Analogous time-domain CSD-ERP measures (temporal PCA), consisting of N1 sink, novelty mismatch negativity (MMN), novelty vertex source, novelty P3, P3b, and frontal response negativity, were robust and closely comparable between groups. Novelty MMN at FCz was, however, absent in the three converters. In agreement with prior findings, alpha ERD and MMN may hold particular promise for predicting transition to psychosis among CHR patients.
Despite indications in the split-brain and lesion literatures that the right hemisphere is capable of some syntactic analysis, few studies have investigated right hemisphere contributions to syntactic processing in people with intact brains. Here we used the visual half-field paradigm in healthy adults to examine each hemisphere's processing of correct and incorrect grammatical number agreement marked either lexically, e.g., antecedent/reflexive pronoun (&quot;The grateful niece asked herself/*themselves&quot;) or morphologically, e.g., subject/verb (&quot;Industrial scientists develop/*develops&quot;). For reflexives, response times and accuracy of grammaticality decisions suggested similar processing regardless of visual field of presentation. In the subject/verb condition, we observed similar response times and accuracies for central and right visual field (RVF) presentations. For left visual field (LVF) presentation, response times were longer and accuracy rates were reduced relative to RVF presentation. An event-related brain potential (ERP) study using the same materials revealed similar ERP responses to the reflexive pronouns in the two visual fields, but very different ERP effects to the subject/verb violations. For lexically marked violations on reflexives, P600 was elicited by stimuli in both the LVF and RVF; for morphologically marked violations on verbs, P600 was elicited only by RVF stimuli. These data suggest that both hemispheres can process lexically marked pronoun agreement violations, and do so in a similar fashion. Morphologically marked subject/verb agreement errors, however, showed a distinct LH advantage.







The aim of this study is to examine key features within the cultural context in a Canadian Paediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU) environment as experienced by nurses and to identify what these influences are and how they shape nurses' intentions to remain at critically ill children's bedsides for the duration of their careers. This is a qualitative study which follows a critical ethnographic approach. Over 20 hours of observation and face-to-face semi-structured interviews were conducted. Approximately one third of the nursing population at the research site PICU were interviewed (N=31). Participants describe a complex process of becoming an expert PICU nurse that involved several stages. By the time participants became experts in this PICU they believed they had significantly narrowed the power imbalance that exists between nursing and medicine. This study illuminates the role both formal and informal education plays in breaking the power barrier for nurses in the PICU. This level of expertise and mutual respect between professions aids in retaining nurses in the PICU. The lack of autonomy and/or respect shown to nurses by administrators appears to be one of the major stressors in nurses' working lives and can lead to attrition from the PICU. Family Centred Care (FCC) is practiced in paediatrics and certainly accentuated in the PICU as there is usually only one patient assigned per nurse, who thus afforded the time to provide comprehensive care to both the child and the family. This is considered one of the satisfiers for nurses in the PICU and tends to encourage retention of nurses in the PICU. However, FCC was found to be an inadequate term to truly encompass the type of holistic care provided by nurses in the PICU.




Previous studies have emphasized that antisocial personality disorder (APD) and psychopathy overlap highly but differ critically in several features, notably negative emotionality (NEM) and possibly amygdala reactivity to social signals of threat and distress. Here we examined whether dimensions of psychopathy and APD correlate differentially with NEM and amygdala reactivity to emotional faces. Testing these relationships among healthy individuals, dimensions of psychopathy and APD were generated by the profile matching technique of Lynam and Widiger (2001), using facet scales of the NEO Personality Inventory-Revised, and amygdala reactivity was measured using a well-established emotional faces task, in a community sample of 103 men and women. Higher psychopathy scores were associated with lower NEM and lower amygdala reactivity, whereas higher APD scores were related to greater NEM and greater amygdala reactivity, but only after overlapping variance in APD and psychopathy was adjusted for in the statistical model. Amygdala reactivity did not mediate the relationship of APD and psychopathy scores to NEM. Supplemental analyses also compared other measures of factors within psychopathy in predicting NEM and amygdala reactivity and found that Factor 2 psychopathy was positively related to NEM and amygdala reactivity across measures of psychopathy. The overall findings replicate seminal observations on NEM in psychopathy by Hicks and Patrick (2006) and extend this work to neuroimaging in a normative population. They also suggest that one critical way in which APD and psychopathy dimensions may differ in their etiology is through their opposing levels of NEM and amygdala reactivity to threat.
Growing evidence suggests that abnormalities in the synchronized oscillatory activity of neurons in schizophrenia may lead to impaired neural activation and temporal coding and thus lead to neurocognitive dysfunctions, such as deficits in facial affect recognition. To gain an insight into the neurobiological processes linked to facial affect recognition, we investigated both induced and evoked oscillatory activity by calculating the Event Related Spectral Perturbation (ERSP) and the Inter Trial Coherence (ITC) during facial affect recognition. Fearful and neutral faces as well as nonface patches were presented to 24 patients with schizophrenia and 24 matched healthy controls while EEG was recorded. The participants' task was to recognize facial expressions. Because previous findings with healthy controls showed that facial feature decoding was associated primarily with oscillatory activity in the theta band, we analyzed ERSP and ITC in this frequency band in the time interval of 140-200 ms, which corresponds to the N170 component. Event-related theta activity and phase-locking to facial expressions, but not to nonface patches, predicted emotion recognition performance in both controls and patients. Event-related changes in theta amplitude and phase-locking were found to be significantly weaker in patients compared with healthy controls, which is in line with previous investigations showing decreased neural synchronization in the low frequency bands in patients with schizophrenia. Neural synchrony is thought to underlie distributed information processing. Our results indicate a less effective functioning in the recognition process of facial features, which may contribute to a less effective social cognition in schizophrenia.
The longitudinal distribution of the cord dorsum potentials (CDPs) produced by electroacupuncture (EA) stimulation at acupuncture points (APs) located on the hind limbs of rats was analyzed in this study. Single electrical pulses (0.05 ms, 1 Hz) applied to the bladder (BL) and the gallbladder (GB) APs produced CDPs on several spinal segments and were composed of the following four components: an afferent volley, two negative components (N1 and N2), and one positive component (P wave). The larger evoked CDPs differed in their rostrocaudal distributions depending on the stimulated AP site, with those evoked by GB32-33 (at L3) and GB36-37 (at L4) being more caudal than those generated by BL58-59 (at L5) and BL37-38 (at L6). The CDPs produced by stimulating nonacupoints (NAPs) showed similar components and rostrocaudal distributions that were smaller in amplitude than those evoked by stimulating APs. The CDPs produced by stimulating NAPs located on a meridian acupuncture area were similar in amplitude and longitudinal distribution to those produced by stimulating APs. Our results suggest that the specificity of EA stimulation for CDPs responses is mainly related to an activation of meridian pathways associated with peripheral nerve routes rather than to a restricted point specificity of APs.
Changes in social behaviour from childhood to adulthood have been suggested to be driven by an increased sensitivity to others' perspectives. Yet, the link between perspective-taking and social processes, such as trust and reciprocity, has rarely been investigated during adolescence. Using two trust games with a cooperative and an unfair counterpart and an online perspective-taking task with 50 adolescents, we show that those with a higher perspective-taking tendency demonstrate greater trust towards others and higher levels of trust during cooperative interactions. Both low and high perspective-takers adapted their levels of trust in response to unfair behaviour. However, high perspective-takers reduced their trust more drastically and showed more malevolent and less benevolent tit-for-tat when they were treated unfairly by their counterpart. The findings suggest that a higher perspective-taking tendency in adolescence is associated with specific mechanisms of trust and reciprocity, as opposed to undifferentiated increases in positive social behaviour towards others.













Jung's writings on schizophrenia are almost completely ignored or forgotten today. The purpose of this paper, along with a follow-up article, is to review the primary themes found in Jung's writings on schizophrenia, and to assess the validity of his theories about the disorder in light of our current knowledge base in the fields of psychopathology, cognitive neuroscience and psychotherapy research. In this article, five themes related to the aetiology and phenomenology of schizophrenia from Jung's writings are discussed:1) abaissement du niveau mental; 2) the complex; 3) mandala imagery; 4) constellation of archetypes and 5) psychological versus toxic aetiology. Reviews of the above areas suggest three conclusions. First, in many ways, Jung's ideas on schizophrenia anticipated much current thinking and data about the disorder. Second, with the recent (re)convergence of psychological and biological approaches to understanding and treating schizophrenia, the pioneering ideas of Jung regarding the importance of both factors and their interaction remain a useful and rich, but still underutilized resource. Finally, a more concerted effort to understand and evaluate the validity of Jung's concepts in terms of evidence from neuroscience could lead both to important advances in analytical psychology and to developments in therapeutic approaches that would extend beyond the treatment of schizophrenia.
The caudal zona incerta is the target of a recent modification of established procedures for deep brain stimulation (DBS) for Parkinson's disease and tremor. The caudal zona incerta contains a number of neuronal populations that are distinct in terms of their cytoarchitecture, connections, and pattern of immunomarkers and is located at a position where a number of major tracts converge before turning toward their final destination in the forebrain. However, it is not clear which of the anatomical features of the region are related to its value as a target for DBS. This paper has tried to identify features that distinguish the caudal zona incerta of rodents (mouse and rat) and primates (marmoset, rhesus monkey, and human) from the remainder of the zona incerta. We studied cytoarchitecture, anatomical relationships, the pattern of immunomarkers, and gene expression in both of these areas. We found that the caudal zona incerta has a number of histological and gene expression characteristics that distinguish it from the other subdivisions of the zona incerta. Of particular note are the sparse population of GABA neurons and the small but distinctive population of calbindin neurons. We hope that a clearer appreciation of the anatomy of the region will in the end assist the interpretation of cases in which DBS is used in human patients.

The carbonic anhydrase (CA) inhibitor acetazolamide (AZ) is used routinely to estimate cerebrovascular reserve capacity in patients, as it reliably increases cerebral blood flow (CBF). However, the mechanism by which AZ accomplishes this CBF increase is not entirely understood. We recently discovered that CA can produce nitric oxide (NO) from nitrite, and that AZ enhances this NO production in vitro. In fact, this interaction between AZ and CA accounted for a large part of AZ's vasodilatory action, which fits well with the known vasodilatory potency of NO. The present study aimed to assess whether AZ acts similarly in vivo in the human cerebrovascular system. Hence, we increased or minimized the dietary intake of nitrate in 20 healthy male participants, showed them a full-field flickering dartboard, and measured their CBF response to this visual stimulus with arterial spin labeling. Doing so, we found a significant positive interaction between the dietary intake of nitrate and the CBF modulation afforded by AZ during visual stimulation. In addition, but contrary to studies conducted in elderly participants, we report no effect of nitrate intake on resting CBF in healthy human participants. The present study provides in vivo support for an enhancing effect of AZ on the NO production from nitrite catalyzed by CA in the cerebrovascular system. Furthermore, our results, in combination with the results of other groups, indicate that nitrate may have significant importance to vascular function when the cerebrovascular system is challenged by age or disease.
Historically, brief awakenings from sleep (cortical arousals) have been assumed to be vitally important in restoring airflow and blood-gas disturbances at the end of obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) breathing events. Indeed, in patients with blunted chemical drive (e.g., obesity hypoventilation syndrome) and in instances when other defensive mechanisms fail, cortical arousal likely serves an important protective role. However, recent insight into the pathogenesis of OSA indicates that a substantial proportion of respiratory events do not terminate with a cortical arousal from sleep. In many cases, cortical arousals may actually perpetuate blood-gas disturbances, breathing instability, and subsequent upper airway closure during sleep. This brief review summarizes the current understanding of the mechanisms mediating respiratory-induced cortical arousal, the physiological factors that influence the propensity for cortical arousal, and the potential dual roles that cortical arousal may play in OSA pathogenesis. Finally, the extent to which existing sedative agents decrease the propensity for cortical arousal and their potential to be therapeutically beneficial for certain OSA patients are highlighted.
The upper airway is a complex, multifunctional, dynamic neuromechanical system. Its patency during breathing requires moment-to-moment coordination of neural and mechanical behavior and varies with posture. Failure to continuously recruit and coordinate dilator muscles to counterbalance the forces that act to close the airway results in hypopneas or apneas. Repeated failures lead to obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). Obesity and anatomical variations, such as retrognathia, increase the likelihood of upper airway collapse by altering the passive mechanical behavior of the upper airway. This behavior depends on the mechanical properties of each upper airway tissue in isolation, their geometrical arrangements, and their physiological interactions. Recent measurements of respiratory-related deformation of the airway wall have shown that there are different patterns of airway soft tissue movement during the respiratory cycle. In OSA patients, airway dilation appears less coordinated compared with that in healthy subjects (matched for body mass index). Intrinsic mechanical properties of airway tissues are altered in OSA patients, but the factors underlying these changes have yet to be elucidated. How neural drive to the airway dilators relates to the biomechanical behavior of the upper airway (movement and stiffness) is still poorly understood. Recent studies have highlighted that the biomechanical behavior of the upper airway cannot be simply predicted from electromyographic activity (electromyogram) of its muscles.
Phalloidin, a toxin isolated from the death cap mushroom, Amanita phalloides, binds to filamentous actin with high affinity, and this has made fluorophore-conjugated phalloidin a useful tool in cellular imaging. Hepatocytes take up phalloidin via the liver-specific organic anion transporting polypeptide 1b2, but phalloidin does not permeate most living cells. Rapid entry of styryl dyes into live hair cells has been used to evaluate function, but the usefulness of those fluorescence dyes is limited by broad and fixed absorption spectra. Since phalloidin can be conjugated to fluorophores with various spectra, we investigated whether it would permeate living hair cells. When we incubated mouse utricles in 66 nM phalloidin-CF488A and followed that by washes in phalloidin-free medium, we observed that it entered a subset of hair cells and labeled entire hair bundles fluorescently after 20 min. Incubations of 90 min labeled nearly all the hair bundles. When phalloidin-treated utricles were cultured for 24 h after washout, the label disappeared from the hair cells and progressively but heterogeneously labeled filamentous actin in the supporting cells. We investigated how phalloidin may enter hair cells and found that P2 receptor antagonists, pyridoxalphosphate-6-azophenyl-2', 4'-disulfonic acid and suramin, blocked phalloidin entry, while the P2Y receptor ligands, uridine-5'-diphosphate and uridine-5'-triphosphaste, stimulated uptake. Consistent with that, the P2Y6 receptor antagonist, MRS 2578, decreased phalloidin uptake. The results show that phalloidin permeates live hair cells through a pathway that requires metabotropic P2Y receptor signaling and suggest that phalloidin can be transferred from hair cells to supporting cells in culture.
Autism spectrum disorders (ASD) are associated with an increased incidence of epilepsy and of epileptiform discharges on electroencephalograms. It is unknown whether epileptiform discharges correlate with symptoms of ASD. We completed a retrospective chart review of 101 patients with ASD who had overnight electroencephalograms. We looked for a relationship between epileptiform abnormalities and diagnosis, history of regression, communication skills, and other features associated with ASD. There was a higher incidence of epileptiform activity in children with stereotypies and aggressive behavior. The incidence of epileptiform abnormalities was significantly lower in Asperger's compared with more severe forms of autism. Results suggest that increasing severity of autistic symptoms may be associated with higher likelihood of epileptiform abnormalities. Whether treatment alters outcome is unknown.
A large number of topics in biology, medicine, neuroscience, psychology and sociology can be generally described via complex networks in order to investigate fundamental questions of structure, connectivity, information exchange and causality. Especially, research on biological networks like functional spatiotemporal brain activations and changes, caused by neuropsychiatric pathologies, is promising. Analyzing those so-called complex networks, the calculation of meaningful measures can be very long-winded depending on their size and structure. Even worse, in many labs only standard desktop computers are accessible to perform those calculations. Numerous investigations on complex networks regard huge but sparsely connected network structures, where most network nodes are connected to only a few others. Currently, there are several libraries available to tackle this kind of networks. A problem arises when not only a few big and sparse networks have to be analyzed, but hundreds or thousands of smaller and conceivably dense networks (e.g. in measuring brain activation over time). Then every minute per network is crucial. For these cases there several possibilities to use standard hardware more efficiently. It is not sufficient to apply just standard algorithms for dense graph characteristics. This article introduces the new library FALCON developed especially for the exploration of dense complex networks. Currently, it offers 12 different measures (like clustering coefficients), each for undirected-unweighted, undirected-weighted and directed-unweighted networks. It uses a multi-core approach in combination with comprehensive code and hardware optimizations. There is an alternative massively parallel GPU implementation for the most time-consuming measures, too. Finally, a comparing benchmark is integrated to support the choice of the most suitable library for a particular network issue.
Peripheral nerve injuries can be surgically repaired by suturing the transected nerve stumps or, in case of larger lesions, by the transplantation of an autologous nerve graft. To avoid donor site morbidity, the development of artificial implants is desired. Clinically, hollow conduits have been used for this purpose but are inferior to the autograft because they lack internal guidance cues for Schwann cells and regenerating axons. In this article, we describe the design of a three-dimensional (3D) scaffold consisting of parallel fibers embedded in a collagen matrix. For this purpose, an electrospinning device was developed to produce and manipulate a 3D array of aligned poly(-caprolactone) (PCL) microfibers. This fiber array was then incorporated into biodegradable PCL tubes to serve as artificial nerve bridges. Using primary cultures of embryonic chicken dorsal root ganglia, we show that PCL microfibers in the 3D matrix of our composite scaffold guide the direction of Schwann cell migration and axonal growth.
Anti-inflammatory drugs can minimize the trauma and inflammation in the inner ear caused by cochlear implantation surgery. For this reason, much effort has recently been devoted to finding the best way to administer these anti-inflammatory drugs for a prolonged time and in a personalized dosage. One solution is constructing an electrode with a dispenser filled with anti-inflammatory drugs with a dosage adapted to suit each new cochlear implant user. The purpose of this study was to measure in vitro, by high-performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry assay, the amount of dexamethasone released in 78 days in a physiological solution by a filled dispenser. The drug release continued for more than 2 months in three different phases: (1) during the first 1-5 days, (2) within about 2 weeks, and (3) from about 3 weeks until the end of experiment. This release trend is in accordance with the 3 main phases of damage caused by the cochlear implantation: (1) insertion trauma within the first 2 days, (2) inflammation within 2 weeks, and finally (3) an intracochlear chronic fibrosis reaction. Future animal model studies should consider using this dispenser in order to establish its effectiveness in preventing damage caused by cochlear implantation.
This paper proposes a new reconstruction method for diffuse optical tomography using reduced-order models of light transport in tissue. The models, which directly map optical tissue parameters to optical flux measurements at the detector locations, are derived based on data generated by numerical simulation of a reference model. The reconstruction algorithm based on the reduced-order models is a few orders of magnitude faster than the one based on a finite element approximation on a fine mesh incorporating a priori anatomical information acquired by magnetic resonance imaging. We demonstrate the accuracy and speed of the approach using a phantom experiment and through numerical simulation of brain activation in a rat's head. The applicability of the approach for real-time monitoring of brain hemodynamics is demonstrated through a hypercapnic experiment. We show that our results agree with the expected physiological changes and with results of a similar experimental study. However, by using our approach, a three-dimensional tomographic reconstruction can be performed in 3s per time point instead of the 1 to 2 h it takes when using the conventional finite element modeling approach.
The quantification of skin carotenoid levels has a range of applications in Caucasian populations, from serving as a versatile and noninvasive biomarker (e.g., of systemic carotenoid levels, carotenoid consumption, the antioxidative capacity of skin, and oxidative stress) to being used in appearance-based interventions. Yet, no study has investigated the quantitative effect of carotenoid supplementation on African skin. The aim of this study was to determine if beta-carotene supplementation produces a significant color change in three different regions of African skin. To do so we supplemented the diet of African participants with beta-carotene over an eight-week period. Reflectance spectrophotometry measurements were taken on a weekly basis for the duration of the supplementation study. Results show a significant increase in the carotenoid coloration of lightly pigmented skin (palm of the hand) and highly pigmented skin with low sun exposure (inner arm) after supplementation. The latter was no longer significant after Bonferroni correction. The carotenoid coloration of highly pigmented skin areas with high sun exposure did not increase significantly. Skin carotenoid measurements of the palm of the hand might, therefore, serve as a potential biomarker for systemic carotenoid concentrations in people of African descent.
Abstract available from the publisher.
Abstract available from the publisher.


When Juan Parodi implanted an endograft in a human body for the first time on September 7, 1990 in Buenos Aires, Argentina, the delivery system of the handmade device was primitive, extremely rigid, and had a bulky profile of 27 French (F). Since then, stent-graft technology has evolved rapidly, limitations of earlier-generation devices have been overtaken, and endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR) eligibility has increased enormously. Nevertheless (still) challenging aortoiliac anatomy such as short and complex proximal aortic neck seal zones and narrow access vessels are responsible for EVAR ineligibility in up to 50% of cases. The Ovation Prime abdominal stent-graft system (TriVascular, Inc., Santa Rosa, CA, USA) is a trimodular device designed with the aortic body delivered via a flexible, hydrophilic-coated, ultra-low profile catheter (14-F outer diameter - OD). The aortic body is provided with a suprarenal nitinol stent with anchors that provide active fixation, while a network of rings and channels that are inflated with a low-viscosity radiopaque polymer during stent-graft deployment, provides effective sealing. The previous EVAR technology aimed to both anchor and seal using stents combined with fabric, with neither optimized for their roles and each forced to compete for the same space within their delivery catheters, which inevitably led to larger profile of the delivery system. The technical revolution of the Ovation endograft includes the idea to truly uncouple the stages of stent-graft fixation and seal during the procedure. In the Ovation endograft platform, stent and fabric are not competing the same space within the delivery system and an ultra-low profile delivery can be achieved without compromise. With such a low-profile delivery catheter, approximately 90% of men and 70% of women with abdominal aortic aneurysm have access vessel diameters considered fit for endovascular repair. The aim of this review paper was to analyze the main properties of Ovation endograft, to emphasize the advantage of the ultra-low profile device, and to sum up current literature.
Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is an autosomal recessive motor neuron disease. It is the first genetic cause of infant mortality. It is caused by mutations in the survival motor neuron 1 (SMN1) gene, leading to the reduction of SMN protein. The most striking component is the loss of alpha motor neurons in the ventral horn of the spinal cord, resulting in progressive paralysis and eventually premature death. There is no current treatment other than supportive care, although the past decade has seen a striking advancement in understanding of both SMA genetics and molecular mechanisms. A variety of disease modifying interventions are rapidly bridging the translational gap from the laboratory to clinical trials. In this review, we would like to outline the most interesting therapeutic strategies that are currently developing, which are represented by molecular, gene and stem cell-mediated approaches for the treatment of SMA.
Although neurons are not productively infected with HIV-1, neuronal injury and death are frequently seen in the brains of AIDS patients with neurological and neurocognitive disorders. Evidently, viral proteins including Tat and cellular inflammatory factors released by activated and/or infected microglia, macrophages, and astrocytes contribute to neuronal cell death. Several studies have demonstrated that HIV-1 associated neuronal cell injury is mediated by dysregulation of signaling pathways that are controlled, in part, by a class of serine/threonine kinases. In this study, we demonstrate that pDING, a novel plant-derived phosphate binding protein has the capacity to reduce the severity of injury and death caused by HIV-1 and its neurotoxic Tat protein. We demonstrate that pDING, also called p27SJ/p38SJ, protects cells from the loss of neuronal processes induced by Tat and promotes neuronal outgrowth after Tat-mediated injury. Further, expression of pDING prevents Tat-induced oxidative stress and mitochondrial permeability. With its profound phosphatase activity, pDING controls the activity of several kinases including MAPK, Cdk5, and their downstream target protein, MEF2, which is implicated in neuronal cell protection. Our results show that expression of pDING in neuronal cells diminishes the level of hyperphosphorylated forms of Cdk5 and MEF2 caused by Tat and the other neurotoxic agents that are secreted by the HIV-1 infected cells. These observations suggest that pDING, through its phosphatase activity, has the ability to manipulate the state of phosphorylation and activity of several factors involved in neuronal cell health in response to HIV-1.
Synaptotagmin-like protein 2 (Slp2-a/Sytl2) is a Rab27 effector protein that regulates transport of Rab27-bearing vesicles and organelles through its N-terminal Rab27-binding domain and a phospholipid-binding C2A domain. Here we demonstrate a Rab27-independent function of Slp2-a in the control of renal cell size through a previously uncharacterized C2B domain. We found that by recruiting Rap1 GAPs to the plasma membrane of MDCK II cells through the C2B domain, Slp2-a inactivates Rap signaling and modulates the size of the cells. Functional ablation of Slp2-a resulted in an increase in the size of MDCK II cells. Drosophila Slp Bitesize was found to compensate for the function of Slp2-a in MDCK II cells, thereby indicating that the mechanism of the cell size control by Slp proteins has been evolutionarily conserved. Interestingly, blockade of the activity of ezrin, a downstream target of Rap, with the glucosylceramide synthase inhibitor, miglustat, effectively inhibited cell spreading of Slp2-a-knockdown cells. We also discovered aberrant expression of Slp2-a and increased activity of ezrin in pcy (Nphp3(pcy)) mice, a model of polycystic kidney disease that is characterized by renal cell spreading. Our findings indicate that Slp2-a controls renal cell size through regulation of Rap-ezrin signaling independently of Rab27.
Over the last decade there has been a considerable effort directed toward reformulating the standard approach taken to preclinically model stroke and stroke recovery. The principal objective of this undertaking has been to improve the success with which preclinical findings can be translated. Although several advancements have already been introduced, one potentially critical feature that appears to have been overlooked is psychological stress. Stroke is well recognized to produce high levels of stress in patients, and ongoing exposure to stress is recognized to deleteriously interfere with recovery. The presence of high levels of stress (distress) in stroke patients is also relevant because nearly all clinically deployed neurorestorative interventions occur against this background. Somewhat perplexingly, however, we could find no preclinical stroke studies concerned with investigating the efficacy of putative neurorestorative compounds that did so in the presence of stress. The following article will make the case that failure to recognize or compensate for the effects of ongoing stress in standard preclinical experimental models of recovery is likely to result in overestimation of the effectiveness of pharmacological or behavioral neurorestorative interventions.
Hyperlipidemia is a major cardiovascular risk factor associated with progressive cerebrovascular dysfunction and diminished collateral perfusion in stroke. Rho-associated kinase (ROCK) may be an important mediator of hyperlipidemic vascular dysfunction. We tested the efficacy of acute or chronic ROCK inhibition on the size of dynamic perfusion defect using laser speckle flowmetry in hyperlipidemic apolipoprotein E knockout mice fed on a high-fat diet for 8 weeks. Mice were studied at an age before the development of flow-limiting atherosclerotic stenoses in aorta and major cervical arteries. Focal ischemia was induced by distal middle cerebral artery occlusion (dMCAO) during optical imaging. The ROCK inhibitor fasudil (10mg/kg) was administered either as a single dose 1hour before ischemia onset, or daily for 4 weeks. Fasudil decreased both baseline arterial blood pressure and cerebrovascular resistance (CVR) by 15%, and significantly improved tissue perfusion during dMCAO. Interestingly, peri-infarct depolarizations were also reduced. Chronic treatment did not further enhance these benefits compared with acute treatment with a single dose. These data show that ROCK inhibition improves CVR and ischemic tissue perfusion in hyperlipidemic mice.
Time to treatment of seizures is critical to efficacy. We performed a quality initiative and evaluated time to treatment of inpatient seizure emergencies with first- and second-line medicines before and after implementation of a computerized, standard treatment protocol. Data from 125 patients revealed that 179 seizure episodes required first-line antiepileptic drugs, and the mean time to treatment was 7.72 minutes. In 87 episodes, patients (49%) received the drugs within 5 minutes. Forty-six episodes required second-line drugs. In 17 (37%), patients received them within 30 minutes (mean 49.48 minutes). After implementation of the protocol, the mean time to treatment with first-line drugs was 3.74 minutes, a reduction of &gt;50% (P &lt; .0001). The mean time to treatment with second-line drugs was 25.05 minutes, a reduction of 50% (P &lt; .0001). This effective model for reducing the time to treatment of seizure emergencies may be useful to similar institutions.






The efficacy of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) in treating behavioral symptoms in nonepileptic psychiatric patients with abnormal EEGs is currently unknown. Although isolated epileptiform discharges have been reported in many psychiatric conditions, they are most commonly observed in patients with aggression, panic, or autistic spectrum disorders. The literature search was guided by 3 criteria: (1) studies had patients who did not experience seizures, (2) patients had EEGs, and (3) an AED was administered. Most important finding is that the number of &quot;controlled&quot; studies was extremely small. Overall, most reports suggest that the use of an AED can be associated with clinical and, at times, improved EEG abnormalities. Additionally, six controlled studies were found for other psychiatric disorders, such as learning disabilities with similar results. Overall, the use of anticonvulsants to treat nonepileptic psychiatric patients needs further controlled studies to better define indications, adequate EEG work-up, best AED to be used, and optimal durations of treatment attempts.
Abetalipoproteinemia (ABL) is a rare monogenic disease characterized by very low plasma levels of cholesterol and triglyceride and almost complete absence of apolipoprotein B (apoB)-containing lipoproteins. Typically, patients present with failure to thrive, acanthocytosis, pigmented retinopathy and neurological features. It has been shown that ABL results from mutations in the gene encoding the microsomal triglyceride transfer protein (MTTP). Sanger sequencing of MTTP was performed for two unrelated consanguineous Tunisian families with two affected individuals each, presenting a more severe ABL phenotype than previously reported in the literature. The patients were found to be homozygous for two novel mutations. In the first family, a nonsense mutation, c.2313T&gt;A, leading to a truncated protein (p.Y771X) was identified. In the second family, a splice mutation, IVS 9+2T&gt;G, was found. These mutations are believed to abolish the assembly and secretion of apoB-containing lipoproteins.
Hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH) is a rare multisystem disorder characterised by the proliferation and infiltration of lymphocytes and histiocytes. Central nervous system (CNS) infiltration is particularly devastating. Neuroradiological findings have been reported predominantly as individual case reports due to the rarity of the condition. To our knowledge there have been no published studies of imaging in Australian patients. This study aimed to retrospectively describe and illustrate the MRI appearances of CNS involvement by HLH in a cohort of seven Australian children from two paediatric centres between 2000 and 2011. MRI appearances demonstrate intersubject and intrasubject variability over time, likely reflecting the severity of CNS infiltration and associated demyelination. Familiarity with MRI patterns is important for assessing and monitoring disease activity.
Subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) is accompanied by a marked acute sympathetic response, and evidence exists for sympathetic participation in the development of cerebral vasospasm (VS). The purpose of this observational investigation was to assess the association between acute central catecholaminergic activity, early VS and delayed VS following SAH. SAH grade 3-5 patients who received ventriculostomy, and in whom bilateral temporal transcranial insonation was performed, were enrolled. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was sampled (&lt;48 hours) and assayed for catecholamines, which were correlated to measures of early and delayed sonographic anterior circulation VS. Clinical independent predictors of early VS included age (odds ratio .946 [95% confidence interval .902-.991]), CT scan score (4.27 [1.30-14.0]) and neurogenic cardiomyopathy (6.5 [1.24-34.1]). Age (.925 [.859-.996]) and CT scan score (8.30 [1.33-5.17]) also independently predicted delayed VS. Any early VS independently predicted conventionally defined delayed VS (10.9 [2.64-45.0]), and severe delayed VS was independently predicted by any early VS (9.87 [2.45-39.7]) and by conventionally defined early VS (12.3 [2.80-54.1]). The norepinephrine:3,4-dihydroxyphenylglycol ratio (NE/DHPG) independently predicted severe delayed VS (3.38 [1.01-11.35]), for which DHPG was a negative predictor (.356 [.151-.839]). Epinephrine was a negative predictor of any early VS (.574 [.357-.921]), any delayed VS (.372 [.158-.875]), and delayed conventional VS (.402 [.200-.807]). Early and delayed VS appear to be related processes that are generally unrelated to the acute central sympathetic response following SAH. The one exception may be severe delayed VS which may be associated with noradrenergic activation.
We describe a 62-year-old man with a sporadic form of hyperekplexia who presented with an unsteady gait, present since the age of 47. His clinical examination revealed an insecure broad-based gait and difficulty with tandem walking but no other abnormalities. For nearly a decade the patient was misdiagnosed with an idiopathic ataxia. A video electroencephalogram combined with an electromyogram during sudden auditory stimulus demonstrated an excessive startle response. An extensive work-up ruled out all the known causes of symptomatic hyperekplexia including anti-glycine receptor antibodies. Treatment with clonazepam markedly reduced the threshold and intensity of the startle response, enabling him to recover independence. Hyperekplexia is frequently associated with an awkward and hesitating gait, but these gait abnormalities might be confused with other causes of gait disorders if one is not aware of this disease. We report this patient to highlight that a correct diagnosis of hyperekplexia is crucial, because its treatment may change quality of life.
The authors report a 44-year-old man with a history of attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder, obsessive compulsive behaviour, vocal tics, depression, and anxiety, in whom a compound heterozygous ATP7B mutation was found, associated with hypoceruloplasminemia, but without clinical or pathological manifestation of Wilson's disease (WD). Genetic testing revealed a compound heterozygous ATP7B mutation already described in WD, p.Met645Arg (C1934TG/c.51+4AT). Hypoceruloplasminaemia was detected but no clinical manifestations (hepatic or central nervous system) of WD were present. The authors conclude that patients can carry a heterozygous mutation of the ATP7B gene that is associated with hypoceruloplasminaemia and display no overt clinical hepatic and/or central nervous system manifestations of WD.
Elderly patients commonly receive statin drugs for the primary or secondary prevention of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events. Elderly patients also commonly receive antidepressant drugs, usually selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), for the treatment of depression, anxiety, or other conditions. SSRIs are associated with many pharmacokinetic drug interactions related to the inhibition of the cytochrome P450 (CYP) metabolic pathways. There is concern that drugs that inhibit statin metabolism can trigger statin adverse effects, especially myopathy (which can be potentially serious, if rhabdomyolysis occurs). However, a detailed literature review of statin metabolism and of SSRI effects on CYP enzymes suggests that escitalopram, citalopram, and paroxetine are almost certain to be safe with all statins, and rosuvastatin, pitavastatin, and pravastatin are almost certain to be safe with all SSRIs. Even though other SSRI-statin combinations may theoretically be associated with risks, the magnitude of the pharmacokinetic interaction is likely to be below the threshold for clinical significance. Risk, if at all, lies in combining fluvoxamine with atorvastatin, simvastatin, or lovastatin, and even this risk can be minimized by using lower statin doses and monitoring the patient.


The present 16-week double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial was aimed to explore the efficacy of ziprasidone add-on pharmacotherapy on clinical symptoms and cognitive functioning in 40 schizophrenic patients (active group, n = 20; placebo group, n = 20) with residual symptoms (Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale mean [SD] baseline total score in active group vs placebo, 40.4 [5.9] vs 37.9 [6.8]) despite receiving clozapine monotherapy at the highest tolerated dosage. The results obtained evidenced that ziprasidone augmentation of clozapine significantly reduced Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale &quot;Negative&quot; (P = 0.006, mean change [SD] in active group vs placebo, -2.7 [2.3] vs 1.1 [2.1], Cohen d = 1.7) and &quot;General Psychopathology&quot; (P = 0.009, mean change [SD] in active group vs placebo, -5.3 [3.8] vs -0.7 [2.0], Cohen d = 1.5). Regarding cognitive domains, ziprasidone was more effective than placebo in improving semantic fluency (P &lt; 0.0001, mean change [SD] in active group vs placebo, 4.4 [3.5] vs -0.1 [4.1], Cohen d = 1.2). Ziprasidone had only a small effect on prolongation of heart-rate corrected QT interval (QTc) of the electrocardiogram, not significantly different from placebo (QTc milliseconds, mean [SD], week 16 in active group vs placebo, 408.17 [20.85] vs 405.45 [17.11], P = 0.321); within-group comparison revealed that QTc prolongation induced by ziprasidone was statistically significant (baseline vs week 16, P = 0.002). Ziprasidone added to clozapine was effective on negative and cognitive symptoms, although it may be proposed as a helpful treatment in schizophrenia, mainly for those patients who partially respond to clozapine monotherapy.
Trichotillomania (TTM) is characterized by repetitive hair pulling resulting in hair loss. Data on the pharmacological treatment of TTM are limited. This study examined the opioid antagonist, naltrexone, in adults with TTM who had urges to pull their hair. Fifty-one individuals with TTM were randomized to naltrexone or placebo in an 8-week, double-blind trial. Subjects were assessed with measures of TTM severity and selected cognitive tasks. Naltrexone failed to demonstrate significantly greater reductions in hair pulling compared to placebo. Cognitive flexibility, however, significantly improved with naltrexone (P = 0.026). Subjects taking naltrexone with a family history of addiction showed a greater numerical reduction in the urges to pull, although it was not statistically significant. Future studies will have to examine whether pharmacological modulation of the opiate system may provide promise in controlling pulling behavior in a subgroup of individuals with TTM.
Moderate doses of stimulant drugs are known to enhance memory encoding and consolidation, but their effects on memory retrieval have not been explored in depth. In laboratory animals, stimulants seem to improve retrieval of emotional memories, but comparable studies have not been carried out in humans. In the present study, we examined the effects of dextroamphetamine (AMP) on retrieval of emotional and unemotional stimuli in healthy young adults, using doses that enhanced memory formation when administered before encoding in our previous study. During 3 sessions, healthy volunteers (n = 31) received 2 doses of AMP (10 and 20 mg) and placebo in counterbalanced order under double-blind conditions. During each session, they first viewed emotional and unemotional pictures and words in a drug-free state, and then 2 days later their memory was tested, 1 hour after AMP or placebo administration. Dextroamphetamine did not affect the number of emotional or unemotional stimuli remembered, but both doses increased recall intrusions and false recognition. Dextroamphetamine (20 mg) also increased the number of positively rated picture descriptions and words generated during free recall. These data provide the first evidence that therapeutic range doses of stimulant drugs can increase memory retrieval errors. The ability of AMP to positively bias recollection of prior events could contribute to its potential for abuse.
Spatial orientation is a complex cognitive process requiring the integration of information processed in a distributed system of brain regions. Current models on the neural basis of spatial orientation are based primarily on the functional role of single brain regions, with limited understanding of how interaction among these brain regions relates to behavior. In this study, we investigated two sources of variability in the neural networks that support spatial orientation--network configuration and efficiency--and assessed whether variability in these topological properties relates to individual differences in orientation accuracy. Participants with higher accuracy were shown to express greater activity in the right supramarginal gyrus, the right precentral cortex, and the left hippocampus, over and above a core network engaged by the whole group. Additionally, high-performing individuals had increased levels of global efficiency within a resting-state network composed of brain regions engaged during orientation and increased levels of node centrality in the right supramarginal gyrus, the right primary motor cortex, and the left hippocampus. These results indicate that individual differences in the configuration of task-related networks and their efficiency measured at rest relate to the ability to spatially orient. Our findings advance systems neuroscience models of orientation and navigation by providing insight into the role of functional integration in shaping orientation behavior.
The intracardiac nervous system represents the final common pathway for autonomic control of the vertebrate heart in maintaining cardiovascular homeostasis. In teleost fishes, details of the organization of this system are not well understood. Here we investigated innervation patterns in the heart of the goldfish, a species representative of a large group of cyprinids. We used antibodies against the neuronal markers zn-12, acetylated tubulin, and human neuronal protein C/D, as well as choline acetyltransferase, tyrosine hydroxylase, nitric oxide synthetase, and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) to detect neural elements and their transmitter contents in wholemounts and sections of cardiac tissue. All chambers of the heart were innervated by choline acetyltransferase-positive axons, implying cholinergic regulation; and by tyrosine hydroxylase-containing axons, implying adrenergic regulation. The mean total number of intracardiac neurons was 713  78 (SE), nearly half of which were cholinergic. Neuronal somata were mainly located in a ganglionated plexus around the sinoatrial valves. Somata were contacted by cholinergic, adrenergic, nitrergic, and VIP-positive terminals. Putative pacemaker cells, identified by immunoreactivity for hyperpolarization activated, cyclic nucleotide-gated channel 4, were located in the base of the sinoatrial valves, and this region was densely innervated by cholinergic and adrenergic terminals. We have shown that the goldfish heart possesses the necessary neuroanatomical substrate for fine, region-by-region autonomic control of the myocardial effectors that are involved in determining cardiac output.
Schmallenberg virus (SBV) is an orthobunyavirus of the family Bunyaviridae that is associated with stillbirth and malformations in ruminants. The infection has been identified in many European countries since August 2011. The present study investigated retrospectively the occurrence of SBV infection in ruminants using immunohistochemistry and in-situ hybridization in brain tissues archived between 1961 and 2010 (112 cattle, 57 sheep, 16 goats and 27 wild ruminants). Eighty-five animals with inflammatory brain lesions and 47 animals with malformations were included. Due to the lack of SBV protein and RNA detection, SBV appears to have been introduced recently into Northern parts of Europe from tropical or subtropical regions.
Rats emit distinct types of ultrasonic vocalizations (USV), which serve as situation-dependent affective signals with important communicative functions. Low-frequency 22-kHz USV typically occur in aversive situations, such as social defeat, whereas high-frequency 50-kHz USV can be observed in appetitive situations, like rough-and-tumble-play in juveniles or mating in adults. The 2 main USV types serve distinct communicative functions and induce call-specific behavioral responses in the receiver. While 22-kHz USV probably serve as alarm calls, 50-kHz USV appear to serve a prosocial communicative function in the sexual and the nonsexual context. In the sexual context, however, this view has recently been challenged by playback studies where only very limited behavioral changes were observed in response to prosocial 50-kHz USV. The aim of the present study was therefore to test whether female rats display social approach behavior in response to male prosocial 50-kHz USV by means of our established playback paradigm. To this aim, we exposed female rats to playback of the following 2 acoustic stimuli: (a) natural male 50-kHz USV and (b) time- and amplitude-matched white noise, with the latter serving as acoustic control for novelty-induced changes in behavior not linked to the communicative function of male prosocial 50-kHz USV. Our present findings show that female rats display high levels of social approach behavior in response to male prosocial 50-kHz USV, but not time- and amplitude-matched white noise, supporting the conclusion that male prosocial 50-kHz USV are likely to play an important role in establishing social proximity and possibly regulate mating behavior.
It has been recently reported that adult domestic dogs, like human infants, tend to commit perseverative search errors; that is, they select the previously rewarded empty location in Piagetian A-not-B search task because of the experimenter's ostensive communicative cues. There is, however, an ongoing debate over whether these findings reveal that dogs can use the human ostensive referential communication as a source of information or the phenomenon can be accounted for by &quot;more simple&quot; explanations like insufficient attention and learning based on local enhancement. In 2 experiments the authors systematically manipulated the type of human cueing (communicative or noncommunicative) adjacent to the A hiding place during both the A and B trials. Results highlight 3 important aspects of the dogs' A-not-B error: (a) search errors are influenced to a certain extent by dogs' motivation to retrieve the toy object; (b) human communicative and noncommunicative signals have different error-inducing effects; and (3) communicative signals presented at the A hiding place during the B trials but not during the A trials play a crucial role in inducing the A-not-B error and it can be induced even without demonstrating repeated hiding events at location A. These findings further confirm the notion that perseverative search error, at least partially, reflects a &quot;ready-to-obey&quot; attitude in the dog rather than insufficient attention and/or working memory.




Modern radiotherapy requires accurate region of interest (ROI) inputs for plan optimization and delivery. Target delineation, however, remains operator-dependent and potentially serves as a major source of treatment delivery error. In order to optimize this critical, yet observer-driven process, a flexible web-based platform for individual and cooperative target delineation analysis and instruction was developed in order to meet the following unmet needs: (1) an open-source/open-access platform for automated/semiautomated quantitative interobserver and intraobserver ROI analysis and comparison, (2) a real-time interface for radiation oncology trainee online self-education in ROI definition, and (3) a source for pilot data to develop and validate quality metrics for institutional and cooperative group quality assurance efforts. The resultant software, Target Contour Testing/Instructional Computer Software (TaCTICS), developed using Ruby on Rails, has since been implemented and proven flexible, feasible, and useful in several distinct analytical and research applications.
The purpose of this study was to quantify the load on the lumbar spine of subjects when they are asked to adjust from a slouched sitting posture into an upright posture with one of three different strategies: &quot;free&quot; (no instruction) and two coached patterns: &quot;lumbopelvic&quot; dominant and &quot;thoracic&quot; dominant. The activity of selected muscles and kinematic data was recorded from 20 volunteers while performing the three movement patterns to adjust sitting posture. Moments and forces at the lumbar spine were computed from an anatomically detailed model that uses kinematics and muscle activation as input variables. The lumbopelvic pattern produces less joint moment on the lumbar spine (on average 31.23.9Nm) when compared to the thoracic pattern (43.85.8Nm). However, the joint compression force was similar for these two patterns, but it was smaller in the free pattern, when no coaching was given (lumbopelvic: 1279112N, thoracic: 1367(125N, free: 1181118N). Lower thoracic erector muscle activity and higher lumbar erector activity were measured in the lumbopelvic pattern in comparison with the other two. In summary the lumbopelvic pattern strategy using predominantly the movement of anterior pelvic tilt results in smaller joint moments on the lumbar spine and also positions the lumbar spine closest to the neutral posture minimizing passive tissue stress. This may be the strategy of choice for people with low back flexion intolerance.



The concept of insect photoperiodism based on a circadian clock has been supported by many studies demonstrating that the behavioural circadian rhythm and the photoperiodic response are driven by the same circadian clock genes. However, the neuronal mechanism of the circadian clock underlying photoperiodism is poorly understood. To examine whether circadian rhythm and photoperiodism share a neuronal mechanism, we focused on the neurons that express neuropeptide pigment-dispersing factor (PDF) in the bean bug, Riptortus pedestris. PDF has been identified as an important regulator of the insect circadian rhythm and is expressed in circadian clock neurons of various insect species. In R. pedestris, PDF immunoreactivity was detected in some clusters of cells and their fibres in the optic lobe and the protocerebrum. cDNA encoding a PDF precursor protein was highly conserved between R. pedestris and many other insects. Differences between day and night were not observed in the immunolabelling intensity in cell bodies of PDF-immunoreactive neurons and pdf mRNA expression levels in the head. Surgical removal of the region containing PDF-immunoreactive cell bodies at the medulla disrupted the photoperiodic regulation of diapause. However, gene suppression of pdf by RNA interference did not affect the photoperiodic response. These results suggest that the region containing PDF-immunoreactive somata is important for the photoperiodic response in R. pedestris, but pdf mRNA expression is probably not required for the response.
The shape of an object restricts its movements and therefore its future location. The rules governing selective sampling of the environment likely incorporate any available data, including shape, that provide information about where important things are going to be in the near future so that the object can be located, tracked, and sampled for information. We asked people to assess in which direction several novel objects pointed or directed them. With independent groups of people, we investigated whether their attention and sense of motion were systematically biased in this direction. Our work shows that nearly any novel object has intrinsic directionality derived from its shape. This shape information is swiftly and automatically incorporated into the allocation of overt and covert visual orienting and the detection of motion, processes that themselves are inherently directional. The observed connection between form and space suggests that shape processing goes beyond recognition alone and may help explain why shape is a relevant dimension throughout the visual brain.
Selective stopping paradigms address selectivity in controlled behavior, as subjects stop certain responses or responses to certain stimuli. The literature has discussed 2 strategies for selective stopping. First, selective stopping may prolong the stop process by adding a discrimination stage (Independent Discriminate then Stop). Second, selective stopping may involve stopping nonselectively and then restarting the response if the signal is an ignore signal (Stop then Discriminate). We discovered a variant of the first strategy that occurred often in our experiments and previously published experiments: The requirement to discriminate stop and ignore signals may interact with the go process, invalidating the independent race model (Dependent Discriminate then Stop). Our experiments focused on stimulus selective stopping, in which subjects stop to one signal and ignore another. When stop and ignore signals were equally likely, some subjects used the Stop then Discriminate strategy and others used the Dependent Discriminate then Stop strategy. When stop signals were more frequent than ignore signals, most subjects used the Stop then Discriminate strategy; when ignore signals were more frequent than stop signals, most subjects used the Dependent Discriminate then Stop strategy. The commonly accepted Independent Discriminate then Stop strategy was seldom implemented. Selective stopping was either not selective (Stop then Discriminate), or interacted with going (Dependent Discriminate then Stop). Implications for the cognitive science, lifespan development, clinical science, and neuroscience of selective stopping are discussed.
We propose that hearing a proper name (e.g., Kevin) in a particular voice serves as a compound memory cue that directly activates representations of a mutually known target person, often permitting reference resolution without any complex computation of shared knowledge. In a referential communication study, pairs of friends played a communication game, in which we monitored the eyes of one friend (the addressee) while he or she sought to identify the target person, in a set of four photos, on the basis of a name spoken aloud. When the name was spoken by a friend, addressees rapidly identified the target person, and this facilitation was independent of whether the friend was articulating a message he or she had designed versus one from a third party with whom the target person was not shared. Our findings suggest that the comprehension system takes advantage of regularities in the environment to minimize effortful computation about who knows what.
Recent computational theories of decision making in humans and animals have portrayed 2 systems locked in a battle for control of behavior. One system--variously termed model-free or habitual--favors actions that have previously led to reward, whereas a second--called the model-based or goal-directed system--favors actions that causally lead to reward according to the agent's internal model of the environment. Some evidence suggests that control can be shifted between these systems using neural or behavioral manipulations, but other evidence suggests that the systems are more intertwined than a competitive account would imply. In 4 behavioral experiments, using a retrospective revaluation design and a cognitive load manipulation, we show that human decisions are more consistent with a cooperative architecture in which the model-free system controls behavior, whereas the model-based system trains the model-free system by replaying and simulating experience.
The attentional blink (AB) is a dual-target, rapid serial visual presentation (RSVP) deficit thought to represent a failure of perceptual awareness that reflects the dynamics of temporal attention. However, second target (T2) report is typically unimpaired when the targets appear within 150 ms of one another (i.e., lag-1 sparing). In addition, this sparing can be extended if more targets appear sequentially. It is thought that sequential targets are processed in the same attentional window. Here, we investigated the fate of targets processed in these windows and, specifically, the consequence for subsequent targets when an item at lag-1 is reported versus missed. The results demonstrated that target encoding in attentional windows has an all-or-none influence on subsequent item report: When comparing two- and three-target (T1 and T2 not separated by distractors) RSVP streams, there was no difference in AB magnitude for the final target when either T2 or T1 was missed in the three-target condition, but both of these conditions had significantly smaller blinks than those observed when T1 and T2 were accurately reported. A comparison of our results to a computational model of temporal attention demonstrates how structural limitations on the rate of encoding affect perception, even during sparing.
The perceptual load theory contends that the locus of visual selection is dependent on the availability of perceptual resources, and findings have shown significant distractor interference under conditions of low perceptual load, but not under conditions of high perceptual load. Recently, other researchers have suggested that this pattern of distractor interference may actually be due to changes in the quality of the distractor's representation (known as the dilution account) and/or changes in its relative salience (known as the salience account). The present study attempted to advance theoretical understanding of visual selection by comparing the effects of high versus low visual salience while holding the effects of perceptual load and dilution constant. The results of two experiments showed that the relative salience of the distractor influenced the magnitude of distractor interference under these conditions. These results suggest that the effects of visual salience can coexist with the effects of dilution (and load).
Perceptual learning can improve our sensory abilities. Understanding its underlying mechanisms, in particular, when perceptual learning generalizes, has become a focus of research and controversy. Specifically, there is little consensus regarding the extent to which tactile perceptual learning generalizes across fingers. We measured tactile orientation discrimination abilities on 4 fingers (index and middle fingers of both hands), using psychophysical measures, before and after 4 training sessions on 1 finger. Given the somatotopic organization of the hand representation in the somatosensory cortex, the topography of the cortical areas underlying tactile perceptual learning can be inferred from the pattern of generalization across fingers; only fingers sharing cortical representation with the trained finger ought to improve with it. Following training, performance improved not only for the trained finger but also for its adjacent and homologous fingers. Although these fingers were not exposed to training, they nevertheless demonstrated similar levels of learning as the trained finger. Conversely, the performance of the finger that was neither adjacent nor homologous to the trained finger was unaffected by training, despite the fact that our procedure was designed to enhance generalization, as described in recent visual perceptual learning research. This pattern of improved performance is compatible with previous reports of neuronal receptive fields (RFs) in the primary somatosensory cortex (SI) spanning adjacent and homologous digits. We conclude that perceptual learning rooted in low-level cortex can still generalize, and suggest potential applications for the neurorehabilitation of syndromes associated with maladaptive plasticity in SI.
The authors present a singular case of an iatrogenic right vertebral artery injury, involving a 67 year-old man, who reported a type II odontoid fracture (Anderson and D'Alonzo Classification) and posterior atlantoaxial dislocation following a road traffic accident. A small injury involving the right vertebral artery occurred as a consequence of transoral odontoidectomy and posterior cervical stabilization. It was caused by bone spicules of spinal origin and their presence was confirmed by the histological section of the right vertebral artery at the level of C1-C2. The case confirms how iatrogenic vertebral artery injuries during cervical spine surgery may be potentially lethal, especially where complications arise some days after surgery.
While short exposure to solar ultraviolet radiation (UVR) can elicit increased skin pigmentation, a protective response mediated by epidermal melanocytes, chronic exposure can lead to skin cancer and photoaging. However, the molecular mechanisms that allow human skin to detect and respond to UVR remain incompletely understood. UVR stimulates a retinal-dependent signaling cascade in human melanocytes that requires GTP hydrolysis and phospholipase C  (PLC) activity. This pathway involves the activation of transient receptor potential A1 (TRPA1) ion channels, an increase in intracellular Ca(2+), and an increase in cellular melanin content. Here, we investigated the identity of the G protein and downstream elements of the signaling cascade and found that UVR phototransduction is Gq/11 dependent. Activation of Gq/11/PLC signaling leads to hydrolysis of phosphatidylinositol (4,5)-bisphosphate (PIP2) to generate diacylglycerol (DAG) and inositol 1, 4, 5-trisphosphate (IP3). We found that PIP2 regulated TRPA1-mediated photocurrents, and IP3 stimulated intracellular Ca(2+) release. The UVR-elicited Ca(2+) response appears to involve both IP3-mediated release from intracellular stores and Ca(2+) influx through TRPA1 channels, showing the fast rising phase of the former and the slow decay of the latter. We propose that melanocytes use a UVR phototransduction mechanism that involves the activation of a Gq/11-dependent phosphoinositide cascade, and resembles light phototransduction cascades of the eye.

Ca(2+) activates SK Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels through the protein Ca(2+) sensor, calmodulin (CaM). To understand how SK channels operate, it is necessary to determine how Ca(2+) regulates CaM binding to its target on SK. Tagless, recombinant SK peptide (SKp), was purified for binding studies with CaM at low and high Ca(2+) concentrations. Composition gradient multi-angle light scattering accurately measures the molar mass, stoichiometry, and affinity of protein complexes. In 2 mM Ca(2+), SKp and CaM bind with three different stoichiometries that depend on the molar ratio of SKp:CaM in solution. These complexes include 28 kD 1SKp/1CaM, 39 kD 2SKp/1CaM, and 44 kD 1SKp/2CaM. A 2SKp/2CaM complex, observed in prior crystallographic studies, is absent. At &lt;5 nM Ca(2+), 1SKp/1CaM and 2SKp/1CaM were observed; however, 1SKp/2CaM was absent. Analytical ultracentrifugation was used to characterize the physical properties of the three SKp/CaM stoichiometries. In high Ca(2+), the sedimentation coefficient is smaller for a 1SKp:1CaM solution than it is for either 2SKp:1CaM or 1SKp:2CaM. At low Ca(2+) and at &gt;100 M protein concentrations, a molar excess of SKp over CaM causes aggregation. Aggregation is not observed in Ca(2+) or with CaM in molar excess. In low Ca(2+) both 1SKp:1CaM and 1SKp:2CaM solutions have similar sedimentation coefficients, which is consistent with the absence of a 1SKp/2CaM complex in low Ca(2+). These results suggest that complexes with stoichiometries other than 2SKp/2CaM are important in gating.



The International Society of Hypertension and the World Hypertension League have developed a policy statement calling for reducing dietary salt. The policy supports the WHO and the United Nations recommendations, which are based on a comprehensive and up-to-date review of relevant research. The policy statement calls for broad societal action to reduce dietary salt, thus reducing blood pressure and preventing hypertension and its related burden of cardiovascular disease. The hypertension organizations and experts need to become more engaged in the efforts to prevent hypertension and to advocate strongly to have dietary salt reduction policies implemented. The statement is being circulated to national hypertension organizations and to international nongovernmental health organizations for consideration of endorsement. Member organizations of the International Society of Hypertension and the World Hypertension League are urged to support this effort.
C1q is the initiator of the classical complement pathway and, as such, is essential for efficient opsonization and clearance of pathogens, altered self-structures, and apoptotic cells. The ceramide transporter protein (CERT) and its longer splicing isoform CERTL are known to interact with extracellular matrix components, such as type IV collagen, and with the innate immune protein serum amyloid P. In this article, we report a novel function of CERT in the innate immune response. Both CERT isoforms, when immobilized, were found to bind the globular head region of C1q and to initiate the classical complement pathway, leading to activation of C4 and C3, as well as generation of the membrane attack complex C5b-9. In addition, C1q was shown to bind to endogenous CERTL on the surface of apoptotic cells. These results demonstrate the role of CERTs in innate immunity, especially in the clearance of apoptotic cells.
The complement system is activated in a wide spectrum of CNS diseases and is suggested to play a role in degenerative phenomena such as elimination of synaptic terminals. Still, little is known of mechanisms regulating complement activation in the CNS. Loss of synaptic terminals in the spinal cord after an experimental nerve injury is increased in the inbred DA strain compared with the PVG strain and is associated with expression of the upstream complement components C1q and C3, in the absence of membrane attack complex activation and neutrophil infiltration. To further dissect pathways regulating complement expression, we performed genome-wide expression profiling and linkage analysis in a large F2(DA  PVG) intercross, which identified quantitative trait loci regulating expression of C1qa, C1qb, C3, and C9. Unlike C1qa, C1qb, and C9, which all displayed distinct coregulation with different cis-regulated C-type lectins, C3 was regulated in a coexpression network immediately downstream of butyrylcholinesterase. Butyrylcholinesterase hydrolyses acetylcholine, which exerts immunoregulatory effects partly through TNF- pathways. Accordingly, increased C3, but not C1q, expression was demonstrated in rat and mouse glia following TNF- stimulation, which was abrogated in a dose-dependent manner by acetylcholine. These findings demonstrate new pathways regulating CNS complement expression using unbiased mapping in an experimental in vivo system. A direct link between cholinergic activity and complement activation is supported by in vitro experiments. The identification of distinct pathways subjected to regulation by naturally occurring genetic variability is of relevance for the understanding of disease mechanisms in neurologic conditions characterized by neuronal injury and complement activation.
Serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) is involved in the regulation of feeding and digestion in many animals from worms to mammals. In insects, 5-HT functions both as a neurotransmitter and as a systemic hormone. Here we tested its role as a neurotransmitter in feeding and crop contractions and its role as a systemic hormone that affected feeding in adult foraging honeybees. We found 5-HT immunoreactive processes throughout the gut, including on the surface of the oesophagus, crop, proventriculus, and the midgut, as well as in the ventral nerve cord. mRNA transcripts for all four of the known bee 5-HT receptors (Am5-ht1A,2,2,7) were expressed in the crop and the midgut suggesting a functional role for 5-HT in these locations. Application of a cocktail of antagonists with activity against these known receptors to the entire gut in vivo reduced the rate of spontaneous contraction in the crop and proventriculus. Although feeding with sucrose caused a small elevation of endogenous 5-HT levels in the haemolymph, injection of exogenous 5-HT directly into the abdomen of the bee to elevate 5-HT in the haemolymph did not alter food intake. However, when 5-HT was injected into directly into the brain there was a reduction in intake of carbohydrate, amino acid, or toxin-laced food solutions. Our data demonstrate that 5-HT inhibits feeding in the brain and excites muscle contractions in the gut, but general elevation of 5-HT in the bee's haemolymph does not affect food intake.
Individuals diagnosed with alcohol-related neurodevelopmental disorder (ARND) exhibit difficulty on hippocampally mediated memory tasks and show reduced hippocampal size. However inconsistencies exist regarding the affected memory functions and where within the hippocampi effects occur. Given recent studies showing anterior and posterior segments support distinct memory functions and sex dimorphisms in hippocampal function, we asked whether these factors influence memory performance in youth with ARND (n = 18) and typically developing controls (n = 17). Participants received a battery of memory tests and a structural MRI scan. Right and left hippocampi were manually traced; anterior and posterior segments were delineated at the uncus. Measured were intracranial volumes (ICV) and right and left hippocampi and hippocampal segments. Volumes were adjusted for ICV. Relative to controls, the ARND group had lower IQs and memory performance on most tasks and marginally smaller ICVs. Left and right hippocampal volumes and posterior segments were smaller in the ARND group. Although no sex differences were observed between groups, females overall had larger anterior hippocampi than males. Positive and negative associations between hippocampal and selective memory indices were found in the ARND group only. These findings are the first to suggest that posterior hippocampal development may be compromised in youth with ARND.
Children treated for medulloblastoma (MB) exhibit long-term impairments in declarative memory, but the pathophysiology underlying this is unclear. Previous studies report declines in global white matter volume, but have failed to link this to declines in memory performance. We examined the effects of treatment on measures of global brain structure (i.e., total white and gray matter volume) and specific memory structures (i.e., hippocampus and uncinate fasciculus). We used volumetric MRI and diffusion tensor imaging in pediatric survivors of MB and one survivor of astrocytoma treated with cranial-spinal radiation (n = 20), and healthy controls (n = 13). Compared to controls, the survivor group exhibited reduced white matter volume, damage to the uncinate fasciculus, and a smaller right hippocampus. Critically, reduced hippocampal volume was not related to differences in brain volume, suggesting that the hippocampus may be especially vulnerable to treatment effects. A subset of the survivors (n = 10) also underwent memory testing using the Children's Memory Scale (CMS). Performance on the general index of the CMS was significantly correlated with measures of hippocampal volume and uncinate fasciculus. The examination of treatment effects on specific brain regions provides a better understanding of long-term cognitive outcome in children with brain tumors, particularly medulloblastoma.
Prospective memory (PM) is dependent on executive processes known to be impaired in Huntington's disease (HD); however, no study to the authors' knowledge has investigated PM in this group. We examined performance-based, semi-naturalistic, and self-reported PM in 20 individuals diagnosed with mild-moderate HD and 20 demographically similar controls. Relative to controls, HD participants demonstrated significantly lower scores in time-based PM, event-based PM (at a trend level), and the semi-naturalistic PM trial, all of which were marked by omission errors. HD participants demonstrated comparable recognition memory for the PM intentions relative to controls. HD and control participants also showed comparable scores in self-reported PM complaints. The results suggest that HD is associated with deficits in the strategic aspects of PM. HD-associated PM deficits also are evident in real-world situations, which may relate to an apparent meta-memory deficit for PM functioning as indicated by HD participants' overestimation of their PM performance on self-report.


Clinical trials have demonstrated the capacity for dopamine neurons, transplanted ectopically into the striatum, to structurally integrate, restore dopamine transmission, and induce long-term functional benefits for Parkinson's disease (PD) patients. Despite this proof of principle, a number of limitations have hindered the development of cell replacement therapy over the past 20 years, particularly tissue availability, graft survival, and adequate reinnervation of the host brain. With a greater understanding of failure in prior clinical trials, increased knowledge of midbrain dopamine development (now including Wnts), and the development of pluripotent stem cell technologies, we are better equipped than ever to re-address a number of these challenges. This review summarizes the trials, tribulations, and progress in cell replacement therapy for PD. We discuss the prospects of modulating canonical and non-canonical Wnt signaling to improve cell therapy based upon their roles in dopamine neural development and the adult brain. This will include the potential of Wnts to (i) expand fetally derived tissue in vitro and following transplantation, (ii) promote the differentiation of pluripotent stem cells, (iii) increase graft integration and restoration of neural circuitry, and finally (iv) enhance graft survival.
Pathogenic pain is a common sign of many diseases. The mechanism is unclear. Activating transcription factor 4 (ATF4) plays a critical role in cell activation. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is an important molecule in pathogenic pain. This study aims to investigate the role of ATF4 in inducing BDNF release from microglial cells. In this study, mouse microglial cells were cultured. The levels of BDNF in the culture medium were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Overexpression of ATF4 in microglial cells was performed by gene transfection. The apoptosis of microglial cells was assessed by flow cytometry. The results showed that microglial cells expressed ATF4 and protease-activated receptor-2 (PAR2). BDNF was detectable in the culture medium of microglial cells, which was significantly increased in the ATF4-overexpressing microglial cells. The ATF4-overexpressing microglial cells showed a high frequency of apoptotic cells, which could be inhibited by exposure to the PAR2 agonist tryptase in the culture. The tryptase-treated ATF4-overexpressing microglial cells kept higher secretion of BDNF. We conclude that the activation of ATF4 can increase BDNF release from microglial cells.
Knowledge of tardigrade brain structure is important for resolving the phylogenetic relationships of Tardigrada. Here, we present new insight into the morphology of the brain in a marine arthrotardigrade, Actinarctus doryphorus, based on transmission electron microscopy, supported by scanning electron microscopy, conventional light microscopy as well as confocal laser scanning microscopy. Arthrotardigrades contain a large number of plesiomorphic characters and likely represent ancestral tardigrades. They often have segmented body outlines and each trunk segment, with its paired set of legs, may have up to five sensory appendages. Noticeably, the head carries numerous cephalic appendages that are structurally equivalent to the sensory appendages of the trunk segments. Our data reveal that the brain of A. doryphorus is partitioned into three paired lobes, and that these lobes exhibit a more pronounced separation as compared to that of eutardigrades. The first brain lobe in A. doryphorus is located anteriodorsally, with the second lobe just below it in an anterioventral position. Both of these two paired lobes are located anterior to the buccal tube. The third pair of brain lobes are situated posterioventrally to the first two lobes, and flank the buccal tube. In addition, A. doryphorus possesses a subpharyngeal ganglion, which is connected with the first of the four ventral trunk ganglia. The first and second brain lobes in A. doryphorus innervate the clavae and cirri of the head. The innervations of these structures indicate a homology between, respectively, the clavae and cirri of A. doryphorus and the temporalia and papilla cephalica of eutardigrades. The third brain lobes innervate the buccal lamella and the stylets as described for eutardigrades. Collectively, these findings suggest that the head region of extant tardigrades is the result of cephalization of multiple segments. Our results on the brain anatomy of Actinarctus doryphorus support the monophyly of Panarthropoda.
There is considerable public and professional concern about the mental health status of veterans deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan as well as how to engage and retain symptomatic veterans in treatment. This study examined demographic, psychiatric, and psychosocial determinants of prospective initiation and retention in mental health services among symptomatic Iraq/Afghanistan veterans. One hundred thirty-seven symptomatic veterans who were referred to mental health screening completed a survey at the time of their first mental health visit. Associations between survey variables and subsequent Veterans Affairs service utilization were evaluated. The most consistent determinants of mental health service initiation and retention were severity of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and depressive symptoms. Notably, whereas PTSD-related re-experiencing symptoms were independently associated with initiation of mental health treatment, PTSD-related numbing symptoms were independently associated with retention in treatment. Stigma, barriers to care, and beliefs about mental health treatment were not associated with either mental health initiation or retention.
Jaspers, a German psychiatrist, published General Psychopathology in 1913. Jaspers, Schneider, and Mayer-Gross were members of the Heidelberg school. General Psychopathology, indirectly through Schneider's and Mayer-Gross' textbooks and directly by its English translation in 1963, led to a narrow set of schizophrenia criteria in the United Kingdom. General Psychopathology had very limited direct impact on US psychiatry, which adopted a broader schizophrenia definition. The difference between UK and US schizophrenia was a key element in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Third Edition, and the neo-Kraepelinian revolution. General Psychopathology contains two essential interrelated ideas: a) psychiatry is a hybrid scientific discipline that must combine natural and social science methods that provide an explanation of illness that follows the medical model and an understanding of psychiatric abnormalities that are variations of human living, respectively, and b) psychiatric disorders are heterogeneous. Berrios' ideas on the hybridity of psychiatry in the United Kingdom and McHugh's ideas on psychiatric diagnoses in the United States can be considered neo-Jasperian approaches because they further elaborate these two Jasperian concepts in the late 20th century.
Reduced phospholipase A (PLA) activity has been reported in the brain and in blood cells of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Individuals with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) are at increased risk of developing AD. In the present study, we determined the activity of distinct PLA subgroups (iPLA, sPLA and cPLA) in older adults with MCI as compared to patients with mild dementia due to AD and to cognitively healthy controls. We investigated whether decreased PLA activity at baseline is associated with the progression of MCI to AD upon follow-up during a period of 4 years. The activity of PLA subgroups was determined in platelets from 169 elderly adults. Progression of MCI to AD was ascertained by standard clinical criteria for AD upon follow-up. At baseline, iPLA activity was significantly decreased (p = 0.001) in patients with AD and MCI as compared to controls. Patients with MCI who progressed to AD during follow-up showed significantly lower iPLA activity at baseline as compared to patients with MCI who did not progress to AD (p = 0.009). Moreover, subjects from the control group at baseline who progressed to MCI during follow-up had lower sPLA and cPLA (p = 0.014 and p = 0.009, respectively). Our findings suggest that low platelet iPLA activity may be a risk marker for AD in subjects with MCI. Moreover, low sPLA and cPLA were related to cognitive decline in healthy controls, suggesting a relationship with the very early stages of the disease.

The N-acylethanolamines (NAEs) exert important behavioral, physiological, and immunological effects through actions at cannabinoid and other receptors. We measured concentrations of three NAEs, the Km and Vmax for fatty acid amide hydrolysis (FAAH), FAAH protein and FAAH mRNA in prefrontal cortex, hippocampus, hypothalamus, amygdala, striatum, and cerebellum at 4 h intervals, starting at 03:00. Significant differences in N-arachidonylethanolamine contents among the times examined occur in the prefrontal cortex (PFC), hippocampus, hypothalamus, and striatum. N-Oleoylethanolamine concentrations exhibit large fluctuations over the day in the cerebellum, including a threefold decrease between 19:00 and 23:00. N-Palmitoylethanolamine and N-oleoylethanolamine were significantly, positively correlated in all regions examined except the hypothalamus. FAAH Km values are significantly affected by time of day in PFC, hippocampus and amygdala and FAAH Vmax values are significantly affected in PFC, hippocampus and cerebellum. However, correlational data indicate that FAAH does not play a primary role in the circadian regulation of the NAE concentrations. FAAH protein expression is not significantly different among the harvest times in any brain region examined. Concentrations of 2-arachidonoylglycerol are significantly affected by time of harvest in the striatum and cerebellum, but not in other brain regions. Together, these data indicate that the NAEs exhibit diverse patterns of change with time of day that are likely the result of alterations in biosynthesis, and support the hypothesis that N-arachidonylethanolamine is a tonic activator of cannabinoid receptor signaling.
Genetic mutations in leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) have been linked to autosomal dominant Parkinson's disease. The most prevalent mutation, G2019S, results in enhanced LRRK2 kinase activity that potentially contributes to the etiology of Parkinson's disease. Consequently, disease progression is potentially mediated by poorly characterized phosphorylation-dependent LRRK2 substrate pathways. To address this gap in knowledge, we transduced SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells with LRRK2 G2019S via adenovirus, then determined quantitative changes in the phosphoproteome upon LRRK2 kinase inhibition (LRRK2-IN-1 treatment) using stable isotope labeling of amino acids in culture combined with phosphopeptide enrichment and LC-MS/MS analysis. We identified 776 phosphorylation sites that were increased or decreased at least 50% in response to LRRK2-IN-1 treatment, including sites on proteins previously known to associate with LRRK2. Bioinformatic analysis of those phosphoproteins suggested a potential role for LRRK2 kinase activity in regulating pro-inflammatory responses and neurite morphology, among other pathways. In follow-up experiments, LRRK2-IN-1 inhibited lipopolysaccharide-induced tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF) and C-X-C motif chemokine 10 (CXCL10) levels in astrocytes and also enhanced multiple neurite characteristics in primary neuronal cultures. However, LRRK2-IN-1 had almost identical effects in primary glial and neuronal cultures from LRRK2 knockout mice. These data suggest LRRK2-IN-1 may inhibit pathways of perceived LRRK2 pathophysiological function independently of LRRK2 highlighting the need to use multiple pharmacological tools and genetic approaches in studies determining LRRK2 function.
