

In 2 experiments, the authors tested predictions from cognitive models of social anxiety regarding attentional biases for social and nonsocial cues by monitoring eye movements to pictures of faces and objects in high social anxiety (HSA) and low social anxiety (LSA) individuals. Under no-stress conditions (Experiment 1), HSA individuals initially directed their gaze toward neutral faces, relative to objects, more often than did LSA participants. However, under social-evaluative stress (Experiment 2), HSA individuals showed reduced biases in initial orienting and maintenance of gaze on faces (cf. objects) compared with the LSA group. HSA individuals were also relatively quicker to look at emotional faces than neutral faces but looked at emotional faces for less time, compared with LSA individuals, consistent with a vigilant-avoidant pattern of bias.
Despite the circumstantial and sometimes equivocal support, the hypothetic involvement of aluminum (Al) in the etiology and pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) has subsisted in neuroscience. There are very few other examples of scientific hypotheses on the pathogenesis of a disease that have been revisited so many times, once a new method that would allow a test of Al's accumulations in the brain of AD patients or a comparison between Al-induced and AD neuropathological signs has become available. Although objects of methodological controversies for scientists and oversimplification for lay spectators, several lines of evidence have strongly supported the involvement of Al as a secondary aggravating factor or risk factor in the pathogenesis of AD. We review evidence on the similarities and dissimilarities between Al-induced neurofibrillary degeneration and paired helical filaments from AD, the accumulation of Al in neurofibrillary tangles and senile plaques from AD, the neuropathological dissociation between AD and dialysis associated encephalopathy, and the epidemiological relations between Al in drinking water and the prevalence of AD. We also critically analyze the prospects of Al-amyloid cascade studies and other evolving lines of evidence that might shed insights into the link between Al and AD. The message between the lines of the following article is that the involvement of Al in the pathogenesis of AD should not be discarded, especially in these times when the amyloid dogma of AD etiology shows its myopia.



Puralpha is a ubiquitously expressed multifunctional nucleic acid-binding protein that is involved in many cellular processes including transcriptional regulation, the cell cycle, oncogenic transformation, and post-natal brain development. Previously, Puralpha protein was found to bind to E2F-1, inhibit E2F-1 transcriptional activity, and reverse the effects of ectopic E2F-1 expression on cell growth. Also Puralpha binds to a GC/GA-rich sequence within its own promoter and inhibits gene expression, that is, Puralpha is autoregulated. We now report that the Puralpha promoter (pPuralpha) is induced by E2F-1 and that this activity maps to a consensus E2F-1 binding motif that is juxtaposed to the Puralpha binding site. Deletion mutants of the E2F-1 protein showed that the region between amino acid residues 88-241 is important for this activity. E2F-1-associated activation of the pPuralpha was inhibited by co-expression of Puralpha, pRb, and an RNA species with specific binding to E2F-1. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assay using primers that flanked the juxtaposed Puralpha and E2F-1 binding sites verified the presence of Puralpha and E2F-1 on the pPuralpha in vivo. In a Tet-inducible cell line, Puralpha delayed cell cycle progression. Thus, E2F-1 and Puralpha interplay appears to be involved in the regulation of Puralpha expression and the cell cycle.
In the developing skeletal muscle, fusion of myoblasts and myotube formation is a process that involves Ca2+ influx through T-type (CaV3) channels. Treatment of myoblasts with transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) and bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2) decreases the number of CaV3 channels in the plasma membrane and reduces myotube formation. In the current report, we examined whether the inhibitory actions of TGF-beta1 and BMP-2 involve alterations in CaV3 mRNA expression in the myoblast C2C12 cell line. Using RT-PCR, we found that CaV3.1 but not CaV3.2 and CaV3.3 transcripts are present in either undifferentiated or fusion competent C2C12 myoblasts. Semi-quantitative analysis revealed a significant decrease of CaV3.1 mRNA expression in cells treated with TGF-beta1 and BMP-2. In contrast, patch-clamp recordings on HEK-293 cells stably expressing recombinant CaV3.1 channels showed that T-type currents were not affected by chronic exposure to the growth factors. These results suggest that muscle T-channel downregulation by TGF-beta1 and BMP-2 may be mediated by reduced transcription rather than through post-transcriptional modifications of CaV3.1 channels.
The dystrophin-associated protein complex (DAPC), which links the cytoskeleton to the extracellular matrix, is essential for muscle cell survival, and is defective in a wide range of muscular dystrophies. The DAPC contains two transmembrane subcomplexes-the dystroglycans and the sarcoglycans. Although several extracellular binding partners have been identified for the dystroglycans, none have been described for the sarcoglycan subcomplex. Here we show that the small leucine-rich repeat (LRR) proteoglycan biglycan binds to alpha- and gamma-sarcoglycan as judged by ligand blot overlay and co-immunoprecipitation assays. Our studies with biglycan-decorin chimeras show that alpha- and gamma-sarcoglycan bind to distinct sites on the polypeptide core of biglycan. Both biglycan proteoglycan as well as biglycan polypeptide lacking glycosaminoglycan (GAG) side chains are components of the dystrophin glycoprotein complex isolated from adult skeletal muscle membranes. Finally, our immunohistochemical and biochemical studies with biglycan null mice show that the expression of alpha- and gamma-sarcoglycan is selectively reduced in muscle from young (P14-P21) animals, while levels in adult muscle (&gt; or = P35) are unchanged. We conclude that biglycan is a ligand for two members of the sarcoglycan complex and regulates their expression at discrete developmental ages.
Excitatory stimulation in hippocampal slices results in biphasic NAD(P)H fluorescence transients. Previous studies using differing stimulus protocols agreed that the oxidation phase is a consequence of mitochondrial metabolism, but the reduction phase has been attributed to (1) mitochondrial nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NADH) generation or (2) astrocytic glycolysis triggered by glutamate uptake. In an attempt to reconcile these two views, the present study examined NAD(P)H signals evoked by a wide range of stimulus durations (40 ms to 20 secs). A combination of ionotropic glutamate receptor (iGluR) antagonists (6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX), 2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (APV)) virtually abolished responses to brief stimuli (40 to 200 ms, 50 Hz), but a significant fraction of the signal elicited by extended stimulation (20 secs, 32 Hz) was resistant to CNQX/APV. Glycolysis was inhibited by removal of glucose and addition of 2-deoxyglucose (2DG) (10 mmol/L) or iodoacetic acid (IAA, 1 mmol/L). Pyruvate was provided as an alternative substrate for oxidative phosphorylation and the A1 receptor antagonist 1,3-Dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine (DPCPX) included to prevent decreases in synaptic efficacy. If sufficient pyruvate was supplied, responses to brief and extended stimuli were unaffected by glycolytic inhibition and not significantly reduced by an inhibitor of glucose uptake (3-O-methyl glucose, 3 mmol/L). When timed to arrive at the peak of overshoots generated by extended synaptic stimulation, brief pyruvate applications (10 mmol/L, 2 mins) had little effect on evoked NAD(P)H increases. Flavoprotein autofluorescence transients after extended stimuli matched (with inverted sign) NAD(P)H responses. Responses to extended stimuli were not reduced by a nonselective inhibitor of glutamate uptake DL-Threo-beta-benzyloxyaspartic acid (TBOA). These results suggest that NAD(P)H transients report mitochondrial dynamics, rather than recruitment of glycolytic metabolism, over a wide range of stimulus intensities.

The present study examined the validity of cognitive assessment in older adults when administered in a second language (English). A battery of tests that included the MMSE, CAMCOG and the Logical Memory Test of the Wechsler Memory Scale III, was administered to 121 older community volunteers of either an English Speaking Background (ESB) or a Non-English Speaking Background (NESB) living in the metropolitan area of Perth, Western Australia. The logical memory test was scored using Latent Semantic Analysis. It was hypothesized that this scoring method would be less affected by cultural and linguistic differences than standard scoring methods. The results suggest that LSA is a more robust measure of cognitive function than traditional scoring methods and may therefore improve the validity of cognitive assessment results on subjects of NESB.
Communication difficulties are a common consequence of brain injury and neuropathological processes. Equally common is the inability to assess intellectual functioning in many communication-impaired populations because the aphasia and physical disability of such patients prevents measurable performance on traditionally administered tests of mental functioning. This study demonstrates that concept formation abilities can be assessed using event-related brain potentials. It also provides further evidence for the efficacy of this innovative assessment method in which standardized and validated psychometric tests are formatted for computer presentation and simultaneous recording of neural activity, which serves as the response measure in lieu of verbal/behavioral responses.
Metachromatic leukodystrophy (MLD) is a demyelinating lysosomal storage disorder for which new treatments are urgently needed. We previously showed that transplantation of gene-corrected hematopoietic stem progenitor cells (HSPCs) in presymptomatic myeloablated MLD mice prevented disease manifestations. Here we show that HSC gene therapy can reverse neurological deficits and neuropathological damage in affected mice, thus correcting an overt neurological disease. The efficacy of gene therapy was dependent on and proportional to arylsulfatase A (ARSA) overexpression in the microglia progeny of transplanted HSPCs. We demonstrate a widespread enzyme distribution from these cells through the CNS and a robust cross-correction of neurons and glia in vivo. Conversely, a peripheral source of enzyme, established by transplanting ARSA-overexpressing hepatocytes from transgenic donors, failed to effectively deliver the enzyme to the CNS. These results indicate that the recruitment of gene-modified, enzyme-overexpressing microglia makes the enzyme bioavailable to the brain and makes therapeutic efficacy and disease correction attainable. Overall, our data provide a strong rationale for implementing HSPC gene therapy in MLD patients.
Accumulation of beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta) in the brain is believed to trigger a complex and poorly understood pathologic reaction that results in the development of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Despite intensive study, there is no consensus as to how Abeta accumulation causes neurodegeneration in AD. In this issue of the JCI, Tesseur et al. report that the expression of TGF-beta type II receptor (TbetaRII) by neurons is reduced very early in the course of AD and that reduced TGF-beta signaling increased Abeta deposition and neurodegeneration in a mouse model of AD (see the related article beginning on page 3060). Intriguingly, reduced TGF-beta signaling in neuroblastoma cells resulted in neuritic dystrophy and increased levels of secreted Abeta. Collectively, these data suggest that dysfunction of the TGF-beta/TbetaRII signaling axis in the AD brain may accelerate Abeta deposition and neurodegeneration.
A male neonate with a Chiari malformation and a leaking myelomeningocoele underwent ventriculoperitoneal shunt insertion followed by repair of myelomeningocoele. During anaesthesia and surgery, he inadvertently became moderately hypothermic. Intravenous phenytoin was administered during the later part of the surgery for seizure prophylaxis. Following phenytoin administration, the patient developed acute severe bradycardia, refractory to atropine and adrenaline. The cardiac depressant actions of phenytoin and hypothermia can be additive. Administration of phenytoin in the presence of hypothermia may lead to an adverse cardiac event in children. As phenytoin is a commonly used drug, clinicians need to be aware of this interaction.
Nineteenth-century Victorian novelists played an important role in developing our understanding of medicine and illness. With the eye of an expert clinician, Charles Dickens provided several detailed accounts of movement disorders in his literary works, many of which predated medical descriptions. His gift for eloquence, imagery, and precision attest not only to the importance of careful clinical observation, but also provide an insightful and entertaining perspective on movement disorders for modern students of neuroscience.
A diagnosis of demyelination carries important therapeutic and prognostic implications. In most cases the diagnosis is made clinically, and involvement of the histopathologist is largely confined to postmortem confirmation and clinicopathological correlation. However, every now and then, accurate diagnosis of the presence or cause of demyelination before death hinges on the histopathological assessment. Recognition of demyelination depends on an awareness of this as a diagnostic possibility, and on the use of appropriate tinctorial and immunohistochemical stains to identify myelin, axons and inflammatory cells. In biopsy specimens, the critical distinction is usually from ischaemic or neoplastic disease, and the types of demyelinating disease most likely to be encountered are multiple sclerosis, acute-disseminated encephalomyelitis, progressive multifocal leucoencephalopathy and extrapontine myelinolysis. Interpretation of the pathology has to be made in the context of the clinical, radiological and biochemical findings. Freezing of a small amount of fresh tissue allows for later virological studies, and electron microscopy is occasionally helpful for demonstration of viral particles.

The neural interface between sensory perception and memory is a central issue in neuroscience, particularly initial memory organization following perceptual analyses. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to identify anatomic regions extracting initial auditory semantic memory information related to environmental sounds. Two distinct anatomic foci were detected in the right superior temporal gyrus when subjects identified sounds representing either animals or threatening items. Threatening animal stimuli elicited signal changes in both foci, suggesting a distributed neural representation. Our results demonstrate both category- and feature-specific responses to nonverbal sounds in early stages of extracting semantic memory information from these sounds. This organization allows for these category-feature detection nodes to extract early, semantic memory information for efficient processing of transient sound stimuli. Neural regions selective for threatening sounds are similar to those of nonhuman primates, demonstrating semantic memory organization for basic biological/survival primitives are present across species.
Various lines of evidence suggest that memory for the relations among arbitrarily paired items acquired prior to testing can influence early processing of a probe stimulus. The event-related potential experiment reported here was designed to explore how early in time memory for a previously established face-scene relationship begins to influence processing of faces, under sequential presentation conditions in which a preview of the scene can promote expectancies about the to-be-presented face. Prior to the current work, the earliest component documented to be sensitive to memory for the relations among arbitrarily paired items was the late positive complex (LPC), but here relational memory effects were evident as early as 270-350 msec after face onset. The latency of these relational memory effects suggests that they may be the precursor to similar effects observed in eye movement behavior. As expected, LPC amplitude was also affected by memory for face-scene relationships, and N400 amplitude reflected some combination of memory for items and memory for the relations among items.

The optic tectum in the lamprey midbrain, homologue of the superior colliculus in mammals, is important for eye movement control and orienting responses. There is, however, only limited information regarding the afferent input to the optic tectum except for that from the eyes. The objective of this study was to define specifically the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-ergic projections to the optic tectum in the river lamprey (Lampetra fluviatilis) and also to describe the tectal afferent input in general. The origin of afferents to the optic tectum was studied by using the neuronal tracer neurobiotin. Injection of neurobiotin into the optic tectum resulted in retrograde labelling of cell groups in all major subdivisions of the brain. The main areas shown to project to the optic tectum were the following: the caudoventral part of the medial pallium, the area of the ventral thalamus and dorsal thalamus, the nucleus of the posterior commissure, the torus semicircularis, the mesencephalic M5 nucleus of Schober, the mesencephalic reticular area, the ishtmic area, and the octavolateral nuclei. GABAergic projections to the optic tectum were identified by combining neurobiotin tracing and GABA immunohistochemistry. On the basis of these double-labelling experiments, it was shown that the optic tectum receives a GABAergic input from the caudoventral part of the medial pallium, the dorsal and ventral thalamus, the nucleus of M5, and the torus semicircularis. The afferent input to the optic tectum in the lamprey brain is similar to that described for other vertebrate species, which is of particular interest considering its position in phylogeny.
The developmental switch of GABA's action from excitation to inhibition is likely due to a change in intracellular chloride concentration from high to low. Here we determined if the GABA switch correlates with the developmental expression patterns of KCC2, the chloride extruder K+-Cl- cotransporter, and NKCC, the chloride accumulator Na+-K+-Cl- cotransporter. Immunoblots of ferret retina showed that KCC2 upregulated in an exponential manner similar to synaptophysin (a synaptic marker). In contrast, NKCC, which was initially expressed at a constant level, upregulated quickly between P14 and P28, and finally downregulated to an adult level that was greater than the initial phase. At the cellular level, immunocytochemistry showed that in the inner plexiform layer KCC2's density increased gradually and its localization within ganglion cells shifted from being primarily in the cytosol (between P1-13) to being in the plasma membrane (after P21). In the outer plexiform layer, KCC2 was detected as soon as this layer started to form and increased gradually. Interestingly, however, KCC2 was initially restricted to photoreceptor terminals, while in the adult it was restricted to bipolar dendrites. Thus, the overall KCC2 expression level in ferret retina increases with age, but the time course differs between cell types. In ganglion cells the upregulation of KCC2 by itself cannot explain the relatively fast switch in GABA's action; additional events, possibly KCC2's integration into the plasma membrane and downregulation of NKCC, might also contribute. In photoreceptors the transient expression of KCC2 suggests a role for this transporter in development.
The effect of gold thioglucose (GTG) administration on neurons containing feeding-related peptides in the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus was examined in mice. Intraperitoneal GTG injection increased the body weight and produced a hypothalamic lesion that extended from the ventral part of the ventromedial nucleus to the dorsal part of the arcuate nucleus. Neurons containing proopiomelanocortin (POMC) and neuropeptide Y (NPY) present in the dorsal part of the arcuate nucleus were destroyed by GTG. In addition, the peptide-containing fibers that extended from the remaining arcuate neurons were degenerated at the lesion site. The number of POMC-containing fibers in the paraventricular nucleus, dorsomedial nucleus, and lateral hypothalamus was found to have decreased significantly when examined at 2 days and 2 weeks after the GTG treatment. In contrast, the number of NPY-containing fibers in the lateral hypothalamus remained unchanged after the GTG treatment, probably because of the presence of an unaffected NPY-containing fiber pathway passing through the tuberal region and projecting onto the lateral hypothalamus. The number of NPY-immunoreactive fibers in the paraventricular and dorsomedial nuclei showed a moderate but significant decrease at 2 days after the GTG treatment, but it recovered to the normal levels 2 weeks later. The NPY-containing fibers were found to have regenerated across the lesion site 2 weeks later, and this might contribute to the recovery of the NPY-immunoreactive fibers in these regions. The present results first demonstrate that POMC- and NPY-containing neurons in the arcuate nucleus respond differently to the lesion produced by the GTG treatment.

The persistence of drug addiction suggests that drugs of abuse enhance learning and/or impair extinction of the drug memory. We studied the effects of repeated cocaine on learning, memory and reinstatement in the pond snail, Lymnaea stagnalis. Respiratory behavior can be operantly conditioned and extinguished in Lymnaea, and this behavior is dependent on a critical dopamine neuron. We tested the hypothesis that repeated cocaine exposure promotes learning and memory or attenuates the ability to extinguish the memory of respiratory behavior that relies on this dopaminergic neuron. Rotating disk electrode voltammetry revealed a K(m) and V(max) of dopamine uptake in snail brain of 0.9 micromol l(-1) and 558 pmol s(-1) g(-1) respectively, and the IC(50) of cocaine for dopamine was approximately 0.03 micromol l(-1). For operant conditioning, snails were given 5 days of 1 h day(-1) immersion in water (control) or 0.1 micromol l(-1) cocaine, which was the lowest dose that maximally inhibited dopamine uptake, and snails were trained 3 days later. No changes were found between the two groups for learning or memory of the operant behavior. However, snails treated with 0.1 micromol l(-1) cocaine demonstrated impairment of extinction memory during reinstatement of the behavior compared with controls. Our findings suggest that repeated exposure to cocaine modifies the interaction between the original memory trace and active inhibition of this trace through extinction training. An understanding of these basic processes in a simple model system may have important implications for treatment strategies in cocaine addiction.
This study compared nonverbal numerical processing in 6-year-olds with that in nonhuman animals using a numerical bisection task. In the study, 16 children were trained on a delayed match-to-sample paradigm to match exemplars of two anchor numerosities. Children were then required to indicate whether a sample intermediate to the anchor values was closer to the small anchor value or the large anchor value. For two sets of anchor values with the same ratio, the probability of choosing the larger anchor value increased systematically with sample number, and the psychometric functions superimposed when plotted on a logarithmic scale. The psychometric functions produced by the children also superimposed with the psychometric functions produced by rhesus monkeys in an analogous previous experiment. These examples of superimposition demonstrate that nonverbal number representations, even in children who have acquired the verbal counting system, are modulated by Weber's law.
In this article, the authors demonstrate a laboratory analogue of medical diagnostic biasing (V. R. LeBlanc, G. R. Norman, &amp; L. R. Brooks, 2001) in 2 experiments and explore the basis of this effect. Before categorizing novel exemplars, participants first evaluated the likelihood that the item was a member of the category suggested on that trial: either the correct category or a plausible alternative category. This was sufficient to produce a substantial bias toward the suggested category despite the use of unambiguous stimuli, explicit rules, and unhurried conditions--each of which would be likely to limit diagnostic bias. The authors argue that the production of this effect requires distinguishing between particular feature instantiations and more abstract representations of those features as well as allowing people to adopt a particular decision strategy mediating the use of instantiated features: a feature-recognition heuristic.
Although the muscle nicotinic receptor (AChR) desensitizes almost completely in the steady presence of high concentrations of acetylcholine (ACh), it is well established that AChRs do not accumulate in desensitized states under normal physiological conditions of neurotransmitter release and clearance. Quantitative considerations in the framework of plausible kinetic schemes, however, lead us to predict that mutations that speed up channel opening, slow down channel closure, and/or slow down the dissociation of neurotransmitter (i.e., gain-of-function mutations) increase the extent to which AChRs desensitize upon ACh removal. In this paper, we confirm this prediction by applying high-frequency trains of brief ( approximately 1 ms) ACh pulses to outside-out membrane patches expressing either lab-engineered or naturally occurring (disease-causing) gain-of-function mutants. Entry into desensitization was evident in our experiments as a frequency-dependent depression in the peak value of succesive macroscopic current responses, in a manner that is remarkably consistent with the theoretical expectation. We conclude that the comparatively small depression of the macroscopic currents observed upon repetitive stimulation of the wild-type AChR is due, not to desensitization being exceedingly slow but, rather, to the particular balance between gating, entry into desensitization, and ACh dissociation rate constants. Disruption of this fine balance by, for example, mutations can lead to enhanced desensitization even if the kinetics of entry into, and recovery from, desensitization themselves are not affected. It follows that accounting for the (usually overlooked) desensitization phenomenon is essential for the correct interpretation of mutagenesis-driven structure-function relationships and for the understanding of pathological synaptic transmission at the vertebrate neuromuscular junction.
Slob57 is an ion channel auxiliary protein that binds to and modulates the Drosophila Slowpoke calcium-dependent potassium channel (dSlo). We reported recently that residues 1-39 of Slob57 comprise the key domain that both causes dSlo inactivation and shifts its voltage dependence of activation to more depolarized voltages. In the present study we show that removal of residues 2-6 from Slob57 abolishes the inactivation, but the ability of Slob57 to rightward shift the voltage dependence of activation of dSlo remains. A synthetic peptide corresponding in sequence to residues 1-6 of Slob57 blocks dSlo in a voltage- and dose-dependent manner. Two Phe residues and at least one Lys residue in this peptide are required for the blocking action. These data indicate that the amino terminus of Slob57 directly blocks dSlo, thereby leading to channel inactivation. Further truncation to residue Arg(16) eliminates the modulation of voltage dependence of activation. Thus these two modulatory actions of Slob57 are independent. Mutation within the calcium bowl of dSlo greatly reduces its calcium sensitivity (Bian, S., I. Favre, and E. Moczydlowski. 2001. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA. 98:4776-4781). We found that Slob57 still causes inactivation of this mutant channel, but does not shift its voltage dependence of activation. This result confirms further the independence of the inactivation and the voltage shift produced by Slob57. It also suggests that the voltage shift requires high affinity Ca(2+) binding to an intact calcium bowl. Furthermore, Slob57 inhibits the shift in the voltage dependence of activation of dSlo evoked by Ca(2+), and this inhibition by Slob57 is greater at higher free Ca(2+) concentrations. These results implicate distinct calcium-dependent and -independent mechanisms in the modulation of dSlo by Slob.


Contractile myofibroblasts are responsible for remodeling of extracellular matrix during wound healing; however, their continued activity results in various fibrocontractive diseases. Conversion of fibroblasts into myofibroblasts is induced by transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) and is hallmarked by the neo-expression of alpha-smooth muscle actin (alpha-SMA), a commonly used myofibroblast marker. Moreover, myofibroblast differentiation and acquisition of the contractile phenotype involves functionally important alterations in the expression of actin-organizing proteins. We investigated whether myofibroblast differentiation is accompanied by changes in the expression of palladin, a cytoskeletal protein that controls stress fiber integrity. Palladin is expressed as several isoforms, including major 3Ig (90 kDa) and 4Ig (140 kDa) forms that differ in their N-terminal sequence. Expression of the 4Ig isoform is strongly induced in fibroblast stress fibers upon TGF-beta1 treatment preceding alpha-SMA upregulation. TGF-beta1 induced upregulation of palladin is mediated both by Smad and mitogen-activated protein kinase pathways. Furthermore, palladin 4Ig-isoform is co-expressed with alpha-SMA in vivo in experimental rat wounds and in human myofibroblast-containing lesions. Taken together these results identify palladin 4Ig as a novel marker of myofibroblast conversion in vitro and in vivo. They also provide for the first time information about the signaling cascades involved in the regulation of palladin expression.
The fetal demand for FFA increases as gestation proceeds, and LPL represents one potential mechanism for increasing placental lipid transport. We examined LPL activity and protein expression in first trimester and term human placenta. The LPL activity was 3-fold higher in term (n = 7; P &lt; 0.05) compared with first trimester (n = 6) placentas. The LPL expression appeared lower in microvillous membrane from first trimester (n = 2) compared with term (n = 2) placentas. We incubated isolated placental villous fragments with a variety of effectors [GW 1929, estradiol, insulin, cortisol, epinephrine, insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha] for 1, 3, and 24 h to investigate potential regulatory mechanisms. Decreased LPL activity was observed after 24 h of incubation with estradiol (1 micro g/ml), insulin, cortisol, and IGF-1 (n = 12; P &lt; 0.05). We observed an increase in LPL activity after 3 h of incubation with estradiol (20 ng/ml) or hyperglycemic medium plus insulin (n = 7; P &lt; 0.05). To conclude, we suggest that the gestational increase in placental LPL activity represents an important mechanism to enhance placental FFA transport in late pregnancy. Hormonal regulation of placental LPL activity by insulin, cortisol, IGF-1, and estradiol may be involved in gestational changes and in alterations in LPL activity in pregnancies complicated by altered fetal growth.
Several evidences suggest that cholinergic deficits may significantly contribute to dementia in Parkinson's disease (PDD) and acetylcholinesterase inhibitors (ChEIs) have been reported to improve cognitive symptoms in PDD, without worsening parkinsonism. Nineteen PDD patients underwent brain perfusion SPECT with (99m)Tc-ethyl cysteinate dimer after 6 months ChEIs treatment in order to evaluate the functional correlates of clinical improvement. A clear-cut cognitive improvement was reported in PDD patients with a significant improvement of ADAS-cog total score as well as of subscores exploring executive functions (p&lt;0.01). MMSE total score did not significantly change after ChEIs but the subscore of attention significantly improved after therapy (p&lt;0.01). No difference in motor performance as evaluated by UPDRS was reported. SPM analysis showed a significant increase of perfusion (p &lt; 0.0001) in bilateral cingulate, and frontal regions after ChEIs. Our data confirm the efficacy of ChEIs in the treatment of dementia associated with PD mainly on attention and executive functions, and the functional findings indicate that this cognitive improvement could be associated with a sort of pharmacological frontal &quot;re-afferentation&quot;.
The GABAA receptor is a ligand-gated ion channel whose function and activity can be regulated by ligand binding or alternatively may be influenced indirectly through the phosphorylation of specific subunits that comprise the GABAA receptor pentamer. With respect to phosphorylation, most studies have focused on either beta or gamma subunits, whereas the role of the alpha subunit as a relevant target of signaling kinases is largely unknown. Interestingly, we found a putative phosphorylation site for extracellular-signal regulated kinase (ERK), a key effector of the MAPK pathway, in almost all known alpha subunits of the GABAA receptor, including the ubiquitously expressed alpha1 subunit. To determine whether this putative ERK phosphorylation site was functionally relevant, we evaluated if ERK inhibition (through pharmacological inhibition of its upstream kinase, MEK) altered GABA-gated currents. Using HEK293 cells stably transfected with the alpha1beta2gamma2 form of the GABAA receptor, we found that UO126 reduced basal ERK phosphorylation and resulted in an enhancement of GABA-induced peak current amplitudes. Further, the enhancement of GABA-gated currents required an intact intracellular environment as it was robust in perforated patch recordings (which preserves the intracellular milieu), but absent in conventional whole-cell recordings (which dialyzes the cytosolic contents), supporting the involvement of an intracellular signaling pathway. Finally, mutation of the ERK phosphorylation site (T375--&gt;A) prevented the UO126-induced enhancement of GABA-gated currents. Collectively, our results implicate the MAPK pathway as a negative modulator of GABAA receptor function, whose influence on GABA-gated currents may be mediated by phosphorylation of the alpha subunit.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia in industrialized nations. If more effective therapies are not developed that either prevent AD or block progression of the disease in its very early stages, the economic and societal cost of caring for AD patients will be devastating. Only two types of drugs are currently approved for the treatment of AD: inhibitors of acetyl cholinesterase, which symptomatically enhance cognitive state to some degree but are not disease modifying; and the adamantane derivative, memantine. Memantine preferentially blocks excessive NMDA receptor activity without disrupting normal receptor activity and is thought to be a neuroprotective agent that blocks excitotoxicty. Memantine therefore may have a potentially disease modifying effect in multiple neurodegenerative conditions. An improved understanding of the pathogeneses of AD has now led to the identification of numerous therapeutic targets designed to alter amyloid beta protein (Abeta) or tau accumulation. Therapies that alter Abeta and tau through these various targets are likely to have significant disease modifying effects. Many of these targets have been validated in proof of concept studies in preclinical animal models, and some potentially disease modifying therapies targeting Abeta or tau are being tested in the clinic. This review will highlight both the promise of and the obstacles to developing such disease modifying AD therapies.
The somatodendritic A-current, I(SA), in hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons regulates the processing of synaptic inputs and the amplitude of back propagating action potentials into the dendritic tree, as well as the action potential firing properties at the soma. In this study, we have used RNA interference and over-expression to show that expression of the Kv4.2 gene specifically regulates the I(SA) component of A-current in these neurons. In dissociated hippocampal pyramidal neuron cultures, or organotypic cultured CA1 pyramidal neurons, the expression level of Kv4.2 is such that the I(SA) channels are maintained in the population at a peak conductance of approximately 950 pS/pF. Suppression of Kv4.2 transcripts in hippocampal pyramidal neurons using an RNA interference vector suppresses I(SA) current by 60% in 2 days, similar to the effect of expressing dominant-negative Kv4 channel constructs. Increasing the expression of Kv4.2 in these neurons increases the level of I(SA) to 170% of the normal set point without altering the biophysical properties. Our results establish a specific role for native Kv4.2 transcripts in forming and maintaining I(SA) current at characteristic levels in hippocampal pyramidal neurons.
Dopamine D(2) long (D(2)L) and D(2) short (D(2)S) isoforms of the D(2) receptor play an important role in psychostimulant-induced neuronal adaptations. In this study, we used quantitative real-time PCR to specifically amplify these two splice variants to examine their mRNA expression in the dorsal striatum (dStr), nucleus accumbens (NAc) and the ventral tegmental area (VTA) of amphetamine-sensitized C57BL/6 mice. We found a significant increase in D(2)L mRNA in the VTA and dStr of amphetamine-treated mice that positively correlated with the sensitized locomotor response. We also found a significant increase in D(2)S mRNA in the VTA. We further examined the role of the Ca(v)1.3 subtype of L-type Ca(2+) channels in up-regulation of D(2)L and D(2)S mRNA in the VTA. Amphetamine-pretreated Ca(v)1.3 wild-type (Ca(v)1.3(+/+)) mice exhibited sensitized behavior and a significant increase in D(2)L and D(2)S mRNA compared with saline-pretreated mice Amphetamine-pretreated homozygous Ca(v)1.3 knockout (Ca(v)1.3(-/-)) mice did not exhibit sensitized behavior. There was a significant increase in D(2)S mRNA, but not D(2)L mRNA. In conclusion, our results find that amphetamine increases D(2)L mRNA expression in the dStr and the VTA, an adaptation that correlates with expression of sensitized behavior and dependence on Ca(v)1.3 Ca(2+) channels.
Transient receptor potential channel type V (TRPV) 1 is a non-selective cation channel that can be activated by capsaicin, endogenous vanilloids, heat and protons. The human TRPV1 splice variant, TRPV1b, lacking exon 7, was cloned from human dorsal root ganglia (DRG) RNA. The expression profile and relative abundance of TRPV1b and TRPV1 in 35 different human tissues were determined by quantitative RT-PCR using isoform-specific probes. TRPV1b was most abundant in fetal brain, adult cerebellum and DRG. Functional studies using electrophysiological techniques showed that recombinant TRPV1b was not activated by capsaicin (1 microM), protons (pH 5.0) or heat (50 degrees C). However, recombinant TRPV1b did form multimeric complexes and was detected on the plasma membrane of cells, demonstrating that the lack of channel function was not due to defects in complex formation or cell surface expression. These results demonstrate that exon 7, which encodes the third ankyrin domain and 44 amino acids thereafter, is required for normal channel function of human TRPV1. Moreover, when co-expressed with TRPV1, TRPV1b formed complexes with TRPV1, and inhibited TRPV1 channel function in response to capsaicin, acidic pH, heat and endogenous vanilloids, dose-dependently. Taken together, these data support the hypothesis that TRPV1b is a naturally existing inhibitory modulator of TRPV1.
It is well established that inflammatory changes contribute to brain ageing, and an increased concentration of proinflammatory cytokine, interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), has been reported in the aged brain associated with a deficit in long-term potentiation (LTP) in rat hippocampus. The precise age at which changes are initiated is unclear. In this study, we investigate parallel changes in markers of inflammation and LTP in 3-, 9- and 15-month-old rats. We report evidence of increased hippocampal concentrations of the proinflammatory cytokines IL-1alpha, IL-18 and interferon-gamma (IFNgamma), which are accompanied by deficits in LTP in the older rats. We also show an increase in expression of markers of microglial activation, CD86, CD40 and intercellular adhesion molecules (ICAM). Associated with these changes, we observed a significant impairment of hippocampal LTP in the same rats. The importance of microglial activation in the attenuation of long-term potentiation (LTP) was demonstrated using an inhibitor of microglial activation, minocycline; partial restoration of LTP in 15-month-old rats was observed following administration of minocycline. We propose that signs of neuroinflammation are observed in middle age and that these changes, which are characterized by microglial activation, may be triggered by IL-18.
Microglia, glial cells with an immunocompetent role in the CNS, react to stimuli from the surrounding environment with alterations of their phenotypic response. Amongst other activating signals, the endotoxin lipopolysaccharide (LPS) is widely used as a tool to mimic bacterial infection in the CNS. LPS-activated microglia undergo dramatic changes in cell morphology/activity; in particular, they stop proliferating and differentiate from resting to effector cells. Activated microglia also show modifications of purinoreceptor signalling with a significant decrease in P2X(7) expression. In this study, we demonstrate that the down-regulation of the P2X(7) receptor in activated microglia may play an important role in the antiproliferative effect of LPS. Indeed, chronic blockade of the P2X(7) receptor by antagonists (oxidized ATP, KN62 and Brilliant Blue G), or treatment with the ATP-hydrolase apyrase, severely decreases microglial proliferation, down-regulation of P2X(7) receptor expression by small RNA interference (siRNA) decreases cell proliferation, and the proliferation of P2X(7)-deficient N9 clones and primary microglia, in which P2X(7) expression is down-regulated by siRNA, is unaffected by either LPS or P2X(7) antagonists. Furthermore, flow cytometric analysis indicates that exposure to oxidized ATP or treatment with LPS reversibly decreases cell cycle progression, without increasing the percentage of apoptotic cells. Overall, our data show that the P2X(7) receptor plays an important role in controlling microglial proliferation by supporting cell cycle progression.
We have previously demonstrated that Gram-negative bacterial endotoxin can exert long-term protective effects against the chronic inflammatory disease adjuvant arthritis in rats. The present study was designed to investigate the mechanisms and time-course of hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis activity and cytokine secretion underlying this phenomenon. Rats were injected with endotoxin (lipopolysaccharide) and blood was collected either 7 or 21 days later. Priming with endotoxin induced a biphasic alteration in secretion of adrenocorticotrophic hormone and corticosterone in response to a second injection of endotoxin, with decreased secretion observed after 7 days whereas robust secretion was observed at 21 days. Seven days following priming with endotoxin, plasma concentrations of pro-inflammatory cytokines interleukin (IL)-6 and interferon (IFN)-gamma were reduced by 90%, and tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha by 70%, compared to saline-treated rats, whereas robust secretion of the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10 was maintained in both groups. A similar net change favouring an anti-inflammatory cytokine secretory milieu was also observed 21 days following priming with endotoxin. This study provides evidence that the long-term protective effects of endotoxin on inflammation are associated with a sustained reduction in secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines. HPA axis hypoactivity at 7 days suggests that corticosterone is not involved in suppressing IL-6, IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha at this time point. Conversely, hypersecretion of corticosterone at 21 days may underlie synchronous suppression of IL-6 and IFN-gamma. These data provide novel insight into interactions between HPA axis activity and cytokine secretion following endotoxin priming prior to induction of inflammatory disease.
We have investigated the genetic involvement of the CD4 and the LAG3 genes, two appealing candidates for MS due to their suggested role in MS pathology. We genotyped a Swedish case-control material consisting of 920 MS patients and 778 controls in an initial study of CD4, three SNPs showed a significant association with MS. An independent material consisting of 1720 Nordic MS patients and 1416 controls were used for confirmation of associated markers in CD4 and to do a confirmative study of the LAG3 gene from previous findings. The result, including a total of 2640 MS patients and 2194 controls shows no significant association with CD4 and LAG3 and MS. We conclude that these genes are of minor importance in regard of genetic predisposition to the MS.



Hyperlexia is a condition rarely reported in Spanish-speaking children, characterized by the ability to recognize written words without formal training. We present two unrelated autistic children with hyperlexia from Colombia (South America) who were followed for 8 years with formal neuropsychological evaluations of language, motor skills, visual perception, attention and behavior. Both children taught themselves to read before 5 years of age but showed minimal comprehension; both displayed obsessional reading and difficulties in social skills and attention. Brain CT scans were normal. Hyperlexia has been associated with hyperactivation of the left superior temporal cortex; we conclude that the orthographic route is a probable mechanism for the development of hyperlexia.

Neuropathologic examination of 3 patients with Alzheimer disease in the Elan Pharmaceuticals trial using antibodies specific for different Abeta species showed in one case, 4 months after the immunization, evidence of a stage of active plaque clearance with &quot;moth-eaten&quot; plaques and abundant Abeta phagocytosis by microglia. At 1 to 2 years after immunization, 2 cases showed extensive areas cleared of plaques (69% and 86% of the temporal cortex was plaque-free). Cortex cleared of plaques in all 3 cases had a characteristic constellation of features, including a very low plaque burden, sparse residual dense plaque cores, and phagocytosed Abeta within microglia. There was resolution of tau-containing dystrophic neurites, although other features of tau pathology (tangles and neuropil threads) remained and cerebral amyloid angiopathy persisted. Although most antibodies generated by Abeta42 immunization in humans bind the intact N-terminus, immunohistochemistry with specific antibodies showed clearance of all major species of Abeta (Abeta40, Abeta42, and N-terminus truncated Abeta). Abeta immunotherapy can clear all Abeta species from the cortex. However, if it is to be used for treatment of established Alzheimer disease, then the residual tau pathology and cerebral amyloid angiopathy require further study.
Cerebral ischemia induces a rapid suppression of spontaneous brain rhythms prior to major alterations in ionic homeostasis. It was found in vitro during ischemia that the rapidly formed adenosine, resulting from the intracellular breakdown of ATP, may inhibit synaptic transmission via the A(1) receptor subtype. The link between endogenous A(1) receptor activation during ischemia and the suppression of spontaneous electrocortical activity has not yet been established in the intact brain. The aim of this study was to investigate in vivo the effects of A(1) receptor antagonism by 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine (DPCPX) on the time to electrocortical suppression during global cerebral ischemia. Adult male Wistar rats under chloral hydrate anesthesia were subjected to 1-min transient &quot;four-vessel occlusion&quot; ischemic episodes, separated by 20-min reperfusion. The rats were injected intraperitoneally with either 1.25 mg/kg DPCPX dissolved in 2 ml/kg dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) or the same volume of DMSO alone, 15 min before the third ischemic episode. Time to electrocortical suppression was estimated based on the decay of the root mean square of two-channel electrocorticographic recordings. During the first two ischemic episodes, electrocortical suppression appeared after approximately 12 s in both groups. After DMSO administration, ischemic suppression remained unchanged. After DPCPX administration, the time to electrocortical suppression was increased by approximately 10 s, and bursts of activity were recorded during the entire ischemia. These effects disappeared within 15 h after DPCPX administration. Our data provide evidence that during cerebral ischemia endogenous activation of A(1) receptors accelerates the electrical &quot;shut-down&quot; of the whole brain.
Purinoceptors are distributed in primary afferent terminals, where transmission of nociceptive information is modulated by these receptors. In the present study, we evaluated whether the activation or blockade of purinoceptors of subtypes P2X and P2Y in the periphery affected the sensitization of primary afferents induced by intradermal injection of capsaicin (CAP) and examined their role in sympathetic modulation of sensitization of primary nociceptive afferents. Afferent activity was recorded from single Adelta- and C-primary afferent fibers in the tibial nerve in anesthetized rats. Peripheral pretreatment with alpha,beta-methylene adenosine 5'-triphosphate (alpha,beta-meATP), a P2X-selective receptor agonist, could potentiate the CAP-induced enhancement of responses of Adelta- and C-primary afferent nociceptive fibers to mechanical stimuli in sympathetically intact rats. After sympathetic denervation, the enhanced responses of both Adelta- and C-fibers after CAP injection were dramatically reduced. However, this reduction could be restored when P2X receptors were activated by alpha,beta-meATP. A blockade of P2X receptors by pyridoxalphosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulfonic acid could significantly reduce the CAP-induced sensitization of Adelta- and C-fibers. Pretreatment with uridine 5'-triphosphate, a P2Y-selective receptor agonist, did not significantly affect or restore the CAP-induced sensitization of Adelta- and C-fibers under sympathetically intact or sympathectomized conditions. Our study supports the view that ATP plays a role in modulation of primary afferent nociceptor sensitivity mainly by P2X receptors. Combined with our previous study, our data also provide further evidence that the sensitization of primary afferent nociceptors is subject to sympathetic modulation by activation of P2X as well as alpha(1)-adrenergic receptors.
A stylized, symmetric, compartmental model of a dopamine neuron in vivo shows how rate and pattern can be modulated either concurrently or differentially. If two or more parameters in the model are varied concurrently, the baseline firing rate and the extent of bursting become de-correlated, which provides an explanation for the lack of a tight correlation in vivo and is consistent with some independence of the mechanisms that generate baseline firing rates versus bursts. We hypothesize that most bursts are triggered by a barrage of synaptic input and that particularly meaningful stimuli recruit larger numbers of synapses in a more synchronous way. An example of concurrent modulation is that increasing the short-lived AMPA current evokes additional spikes without regard to pattern, producing comparable increases in spike frequency and fraction fired in bursts. On the other hand, blocking the SK current evokes additional bursts by allowing a depolarization that previously produced only a single spike to elicit two or more and elongates existing bursts by the same principle, resulting in a greater effect on pattern than rate. A probabilistic algorithm for the random insertion of spikes into the firing pattern produces a good approximation to the pattern changes induced by increasing the AMPA conductance, but not by blocking the SK current, consistent with a differential modulation in the latter case. Furthermore, blocking SK produced a longer burst with a greater intra-burst frequency in response to a simulated meaningful input, suggesting that reduction of this current may augment reward-related responses.

How mechanical information is encoded in the vestibular periphery has not been clarified. To begin to address the issue we examined the intrinsic firing properties of postnatal mouse vestibular ganglion neurons using the whole cell, tight-seal technique in current-clamp mode. We categorized two populations of neurons based on the threshold required to evoke an action potential. Low-threshold neurons fired with an average minimum current injection of -43 pA, whereas high-threshold neurons required -176 pA. Using sine-wave stimuli, we found that the neurons were inherently tuned with best frequencies that ranged up to 40 Hz. To investigate the membrane properties that contributed to the variability in firing properties we examined the same neurons in voltage-clamp mode. High-threshold neurons had larger cell bodies and whole cell capacitances but a resting conductance density of 0.18 nS/pF, nearly identical to that of low-threshold neurons, suggesting that cell size was an important parameter determining threshold. We also found that vestibular ganglion neurons expressed a heterogeneous population of potassium conductances. TEA-sensitive conductances contributed to the position of the tuning curve in the frequency domain. A 4-AP-sensitive conductance was active at rest and hyperpolarized resting potential, limited spontaneous activity, raised threshold, and prevented repetitive firing. In response to sine-wave stimulation 4-AP-sensitive conductances prevented action potential generation at low frequencies and thus contributed to the high-pass corner of the tuning curve. The mean low-pass corner (about 29 Hz) was determined by the membrane time constant. Together these factors contributed to the sharply tuned, band-pass characteristics intrinsic to postnatal vestibular ganglion neurons.
We used fMRI to investigate competition and on-line attentional selection between targets and distractors in opposite visual hemifields. Displays comprised a high-contrast square-wave grating, defined as target by its orientation, presented alone (unilateral) or with a similar distractor of orthogonal orientation in the opposite hemifield (bilateral displays). The target appeared unpredictably on the left or right, precluding anticipatory attention to one side. We found greater activation in target-contralateral superior occipital gyrus for unilateral than for bilateral displays, indicating suppression of the target's visual representation by distractor presence despite the competing distractor projecting to a different occipital hemisphere. Several frontal and parietal regions showed greater activation for bilateral than unilateral trials, suggesting involvement in on-line attentional selection. This was particularly pronounced for regions in bilateral intraparietal sulcus (IPS), which also showed greater functional coupling with occipital cortex specifically on bilateral trials that required selection plus some repetition-suppression effects when target side was repeated, but again only on bilateral trials requiring selection. Our results indicate that competition between visual stimuli in opposite hemifields can influence occipital cortex, and implicate IPS in resolution of this competition by selection.
The activity of neurons in primary motor cortex (M1) and cerebellum is known to correlate with extrinsic movement parameters, including hand position and velocity. Relatively few studies have addressed the encoding of intrinsic parameters, such as muscle activity. Here we applied a generalized regression analysis to describe the relationship of neurons in M1 and cerebellar dentate nucleus to electromyographic (EMG) activity from hand and forearm muscles, during performance of precision grip by macaque monkeys. We showed that cells in both M1 and dentate encode muscle activity in a linear fashion, and that EMG signals provide predictions of neural discharge that are equally accurate to those from kinematic information under these task conditions. Neural activity in M1 was significantly more correlated with both EMG and kinematic signals than was activity in dentate nucleus. Furthermore, the analysis enabled us to look at the temporal properties of muscle encoding. Cells were broadly tuned to muscle activity as a function of the lag between spiking and EMG and there was considerable heterogeneity in the optimal delay among individual neurons. However, a single lag (40 ms) was generally sufficient to provide good fits. Finally, incorporating spike history effects in our model offered no advantage in predicting novel spike trains, reinforcing the simple nature of the muscle encoding that we observed here.
A natural sound can be described by dynamic changes in envelope (amplitude) and carrier (frequency), corresponding to amplitude modulation (AM) and frequency modulation (FM), respectively. Although the neural responses to both AM and FM sounds are extensively studied in both animals and humans, it is uncertain how they are corepresented when changed simultaneously but independently, as is typical for ecologically natural signals. This study elucidates the neural coding of such sounds in human auditory cortex using magnetoencephalography (MEG). Using stimuli with both sinusoidal modulated envelope (f(AM), 37 Hz) and carrier frequency (f(FM), 0.3-8 Hz), it is demonstrated that AM and FM stimulus dynamics are corepresented in the neural code of human auditory cortex. The stimulus AM dynamics are represented neurally with AM encoding, by the auditory steady-state response (aSSR) at f(AM). For sounds with slowly changing carrier frequency (f(FM) &lt;5 Hz), it is shown that the stimulus FM dynamics are tracked by the phase of the aSSR, demonstrating neural phase modulation (PM) encoding of the stimulus carrier frequency. For sounds with faster carrier frequency change (f(FM) &gt; or = 5 Hz), it is shown that modulation encoding of stimulus FM dynamics persists, but the neural encoding is no longer purely PM. This result is consistent with the recruitment of additional neural AM encoding over and above the original neural PM encoding, indicating that both the amplitude and phase of the aSSR at f(AM) track the stimulus FM dynamics. A neural model is suggested to account for these observations.
Perceived control attenuates pain and pain-directed anxiety, possibly because it changes the emotional appraisal of pain. We examined whether brain areas associated with voluntary reappraisal of emotional experiences also mediate the analgesic effect of perceived control over pain. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we compared self-controlled noxious stimuli with physically identical stimuli that were externally controlled. Self-controlled stimulation was accompanied by less pain and anxiety and higher activation in dorsal anterior cingulate (dACC), right dorsolateral, and bilateral anterolateral prefrontal (alPFC) cortices. Activation in dACC and right alPFC was negatively correlated with pain intensity ratings. For externally controlled pain, activation in right alPFC was inversely correlated with the participants' general belief to have control over their lives. Our results are consistent with a reappraisal view of control and suggest that the analgesic effect of perceived control relies on activation of right alPFC. Failure to activate right alPFC may explain the maladaptive effects of strong general control beliefs during uncontrollable pain.
Although brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) potently regulates neuronal connectivity in the developing CNS, the mechanism by which BDNF influences the formation and/or maintenance of glutamatergic synapses remains unknown. Details about the subcellular localization of the BDNF receptor, TrkB, relative to synaptic and nonsynaptic proteins on excitatory neurons should provide insight into how BDNF might exert its effects during synapse formation. Here, we investigated the subcellular localization of tyrosine kinase receptor B (TrkB) relative to synaptic vesicle-associated proteins and NMDA receptors using immunocytochemistry, confocal microscopy, and time-lapse imaging in dissociated cultures of cortical neurons before, during, and after the peak of synapse formation. We find that TrkB is present in puncta on the surface and intracellularly in both dendrites and axons throughout development. Before synapse formation, some TrkB puncta in dendrites colocalize with NMDA receptors, and almost all TrkB puncta in axons colocalize with synaptic vesicle proteins. Clusters of TrkB fused to the enhanced green fluorescent protein (TrkB-EGFP) are highly mobile in both axons and dendrites. In axons, TrkB-EGFP dynamics are almost identical to vesicle-associated protein (VAMP2-EGFP), and these proteins are often transported together. Finally, surface TrkB is found in structures that actively participate in synapse formation: axonal growth cones and dendritic filopodia. Over time, surface TrkB becomes enriched at glutamatergic synapses, which contain both catalytic and truncated TrkB. These results suggest that TrkB is in the right place at the right time to play a direct role in the formation of glutamatergic synapses between cortical neurons.
The alpha2 adrenoceptor antagonist yohimbine (YO) increases transmitter release from adrenergic/noradrenergic (NA) neurons. Systemic YO activates the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, inhibits feeding, and supports conditioned flavor avoidance (CFA) in rats. To determine whether these effects require NA inputs to the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST), vehicle or saporin toxin conjugated to an antibody against dopamine beta hydroxylase (DSAP) was microinjected bilaterally into the BNST to remove its NA inputs. Subsequent tests failed to reveal any lesion effect on the ability of YO (5.0 mg/kg, i.p.) to inhibit food intake or to support CFA. Conversely, HPA axis responses to YO were significantly blunted in DSAP rats. In a terminal experiment, DSAP and control rats were perfused 90-120 min after intraperitoneal injection of YO or vehicle. Brains were processed to reveal Fos immunolabeling and lesion extent. NA fibers were markedly depleted in the BNST and medial parvocellular paraventricular hypothalamus (PVNmp) in DSAP rats, evidence for collateralized NA inputs to these regions. DSAP rats displayed significant loss of caudal medullary NA neurons, and markedly blunted Fos activation in the BNST and in corticotropin-releasing hormone-positive PVNmp neurons after YO. We conclude that a population of medullary NA neurons provides collateral inputs to the BNST and PVNmp, and that these inputs contribute importantly to Fos expression and HPA axis activation after YO treatment. Conversely, NA-mediated activation of BNST and PVNmp neurons is unnecessary for YO to inhibit food intake or support CFA, evidence for the sufficiency of other intact neural pathways in mediating those effects.
The regulation of cognitive activity relies on the flexibility of prefrontal cortex functions. To study this mechanism we compared monkey dorsolateral prefrontal activity in two different spatial cognitive tasks: a delayed response task and a self-organized problem-solving task. The latter included two periods, a search by trial and error for a correct response, and a repetition of the response once discovered. We show that (1) delay activity involved in the delayed task also participates in self-generated responses during the problem-solving task and keeps the same location preference, and (2) the amplitude of firing and the strength of spatial selectivity vary with task requirement, even within search periods while approaching the correct response. This variation is dissociated from pure reward probability, but may have a link with uncertainty because the selectivity dropped when reward predictability was maximal. Overall, we show that spatially tuned delay activity of prefrontal neurons reflects the varying level of engagement in control between different spatial cognitive tasks and during self-organized behavior.
The assembly of glutamatergic postsynaptic densities (PSDs) seems to involve the gradual recruitment of molecular components from diffuse cellular pools. Whether the glutamate receptors themselves are needed to instruct the structural and molecular assembly of the PSD has hardly been addressed. Here, we engineered Drosophila neuromuscular junctions (NMJs) to express none or only drastically reduced amounts of their postsynaptic non-NMDA-type glutamate receptors. At such NMJs, principal synapse formation proceeded and presynaptic active zones showed normal composition and ultrastructure as well as proper glutamate release. At the postsynaptic site, initial steps of molecular and structural assembly took place as well. However, growth of the nascent PSDs to mature size was inhibited, and proteins normally excluded from PSD membranes remained at these apparently immature sites. Intriguingly, synaptic transmission as well as glutamate binding to glutamate receptors appeared dispensable for synapse maturation. Thus, our data suggest that incorporation of non-NMDA-type glutamate receptors and likely their protein-protein interactions with additional PSD components triggers a conversion from an initial to a mature stage of PSD assembly.
The year 2006 marks the centenary of the Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine awarded to Santiago Ramn y Cajal and Camilo Golgi. We commemorate this centenary with a three-dimensional reconstruction and a quantitative study of a pyramidal cell of a Cajal's histological preparation. This preparation is one of the 4529 histological preparations personally made by Ramn y Cajal and preserved in the Museum Cajal. The three-dimensional reconstruction of the neuron allows visualizing one important discovery of Ramn y Cajal that constitutes an active field of research in present-day neuroscience: dendritic spines.
Corticotropin releasing factor (CRF), localized in afferent inputs to the cerebellum, binds to two receptors defined as the Type 1 (CRF-R1) and the Type 2 (CRF-R2alpha). CRF-R1 has been localized to the cerebellum, as has a truncated isoform of CRF-R2alpha. Evidence for the presence of the full length isoform of CRF-R2alpha in the cerebellum is conflicting. We used RT-PCR, immunohistochemical, and physiologic techniques to resolve this conflict. RT-PCR data show low levels of CRF-R2alpha in the vermis and hemisphere of the cerebellum. These observations were confirmed by the Gene Expression Nervous System Atlas (GENSAT) database. A CRF-R2alpha antibody was used to determine the cellular distribution of the receptor in the cerebellum. The vast majority of the receptors are localized to Bergmann glial cells located throughout the cerebellum, as well as astrocytes in the granule cell layer. Neuronal labeling is present in sub-populations of Purkinje cells, Golgi cells, basket cells, and cerebellar nuclear neurons. Physiologic data show that urocortin II, which binds selectively to CRF-R2alpha, increases the firing rate of both Purkinje cells and nuclear neurons; this response can be blocked by the CRF-R2alpha-specific antagonist, antisauvagine-30. The present results confirm that CRF-R2alpha is present in the cerebellum and functions in circuits that modulate the firing rate of Purkinje cells and cerebellar nuclear neurons. A comparative analysis showed that the patterns of distribution of CRF-R1, CRF-R2alpha and CRF-R2alpha-tr are distinct. These data indicate that the CRF family of peptides modulates cerebellar output by binding to multiple CRF receptors.
Despite the significant Italian tradition of important anatomical studies, an outdated law historically influenced by the Catholic church restricts the use of cadavers for teaching and scientific purposes. The object of the present paper was to trace the historical evolution of the Italian anatomical tradition, particularly neuroanatomical studies, in relation to the juridical regulations on the use of cadavers today. Special attention was paid to the opportunities offered to neurosurgery by using cadavers and to the scientific and social issues in neurosurgical training in the twenty-first century. Considering the new Common European Constitution, the authors advocate a political solution from the European community to improve the quality of training in the disciplines with a social impact such as neurosurgery.


The ability of prostanoid receptors to regulate the volume-dependent efflux of the organic osmolyte taurine from murine fibroblasts (L cells) via a cAMP-dependent mechanism has been examined. Incubation of L cells under hypoosmotic conditions resulted in a time-dependent efflux of taurine, the threshold of release occurring at 250 mOsM. Addition of prostaglandin E(1) (PGE(1)) potently (EC(50) = 2.5 nM) enhanced the volume-dependent efflux of taurine at all time points examined and increased the threshold for osmolyte release to 290 mOsM. Maximal PGE(1) stimulation (250-300% of basal) of taurine release was observed at 250 mOsM. Of the PGE analogs tested, only the EP(2)-selective agonist butaprost (9-oxo-11alpha,16S-dihydroxy-17-cyclobutyl-prost-13E-en-1-oic acid) was able to enhance taurine efflux. Inclusion of 1,9-dideoxyfoskolin, 5-nitro-2-(3-phenylpropylamino) benzoic acid, or 4-[(2-butyl-6,7-dicloro-2-cyclopentyl-2,3-dihydro-1-oxo-1H-inden-5-yl)oxy]-butanoic acid blocked the ability of PGE(1) to enhance taurine release, indicating the mediation of a volume-sensitive organic osmolyte and anion channel. The ability of PGE(1) to increase osmolyte release from L cells was mimicked by the addition of agents that inhibit cAMP breakdown, directly activate adenylyl cyclase, or are cell-permeant analogs of cAMP. Taurine release elicited by either PGE(1) or 8-(4-chlorophenylthio)-cAMP was attenuated by &gt;70% in L cells that had been stably transfected with a mutant regulatory subunit of cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA). PGE(1) stimulation of taurine efflux was not attenuated by either depletion of intracellular calcium or inhibition of protein kinase C. The results indicate that activation of prostanoid receptors on murine fibroblasts enhances osmolyte release via a cAMP and PKA-dependent mechanism.
We have shown that 17beta-estradiol protects against ethanol withdrawal toxicity in rats. Here, we investigated whether a cellular model of ethanol withdrawal could be developed in a cultured hippocampal cell line (HT22) and whether an adamantyl-containing nonfeminizing estrogen analog, ZYC26 [(3-hydroxy-2-adamantyl(1)-4-methyl-estra-1,3,5(10)-17-one], protects against ethanol withdrawal toxicity. HT22 cells were exposed to ethanol (0-500 mM) for 24 h in the presence or absence of ZYC26 or 17beta-estradiol. The ethanol solution was then removed from the cells for 4 h to create ethanol withdrawal. Samples were collected at the end of a 24-h ethanol exposure or at 4 h of ethanol withdrawal to assess cell viability using a calcein assay, lipid peroxidation by measuring malondialdehyde, and protein oxidation by measuring carbonyl contents. When tested, ethanol concentrations were constantly maintained during a 24-h ethanol exposure and eliminated at 4 h of ethanol withdrawal. Ethanol withdrawal decreased cell viability and increased the levels of malondialdehyde and carbonyls more than ethanol exposure. ZYC26 reduced the cell death and malondialdehyde levels at a lower dose (1 microM) than 17beta-estradiol (10 microM). The increased carbonyl contents were reduced only by ZYC26 treatment. These data suggest that ethanol withdrawal can be created in HT22 cells in a manner that is more toxic than ethanol exposure and that ZYC26 is a more potent cytoprotectant than 17beta-estradiol against cell death and oxidative damage induced by ethanol withdrawal. Therefore, ZYC26 can be a potential alternative estrogen therapy for a cellular and oxidative imbalance associated with ethanol withdrawal.
We used Magnesium Green AM to measure Ca(2+) transients in Schaffer collateral presynaptic terminals simultaneously with postsynaptic field potentials (fEPSPs) to investigate the mechanism of neurosteroid enhancement of short-term synaptic facilitation. Measurement of [Ca(2+)](i), isolated to presynaptic events, using the fluorescence ratio (DeltaF/F(0)) demonstrated that at a constant stimulus intensity there was no change in the excitability of presynaptic fibres between paired stimuli or between ACSF and 1 mum pregnenolone sulphate (PREGS). Paired-pulse facilitation (PPF) was correlated with residual Ca(2+) ([Ca(2+)](res)), and there was an additional increase in the integralDeltaF/F(0) for the [Ca(2+)](res)-subtracted response to the second of paired stimuli, resulting primarily from a slowing of the decay time constant. In addition to the role of presynaptic [Ca(2+)](res) in PPF, we observed a decrease in EC(50) and a greater maximum for Hill function fits to fEPSP versus DeltaF/F(0) during the second of paired responses. The enhancement of fEPSP PPF by PREGS did not result from an increase of DeltaF/F(0). The data presented here support a PREGS-induced increase in presynaptic glutamate release from the second, but not the first, of a pair of stimuli for a given presynaptic [Ca(2+)] because: (a) there is actually a decrease in the integralDeltaF/F(0) of the [Ca(2+)](res)-subtracted second response over that seen in ACSF; (b) PREGS causes no change in presynaptic Ca(2+) buffering; and (c) there is a decrease in EC(50) and an increase of y(max) in the Hill function fits to DeltaF/F(0) versus fEPSP data. We hypothesize that PREGS enhances short-term facilitation by acting on the Ca(2+)-dependent vesicle release machinery and that this mechanism plays a role in the cognitive effects of this sulphated neurosteroid.
The hyperpolarization-activated cation current (I(h)) may influence precise auditory processing by modulating resting membrane potential and cell excitability. We used electrophysiology and immunohistochemistry to investigate the properties of I(h) in three auditory brainstem nuclei in mice: the anteroventral cochlear nucleus (AVCN), the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body (MNTB) and the lateral superior olive (LSO). I(h) amplitude varied considerably between these cell types, with the order of magnitude LSO &gt; AVCN &gt; MNTB. Kinetically, I(h) is faster in LSO neurons, and more active at rest, compared with AVCN and MNTB cells. The half-activation voltage is -10 mV more hyperpolarized for AVCN and MNTB cells compared with LSO neurons. HCN1 immunoreactivity strongly labelled AVCN and LSO neurons, while HCN2 staining was more diffuse in all nuclei. The HCN4 subunit displayed robust membrane staining in AVCN and MNTB cells but weak labelling of the LSO. We used a dynamic clamp, after blocking I(h), to reinsert I(h) to the different cell types. Our results indicate that the native I(h) for each cell type influences the resting membrane potential and can delay the generation of action potentials in response to injected current. Native I(h) increases rebound depolarizations following hyperpolarizations in all cell types, and increases the likelihood of rebound action potentials (particularly in multiple-firing LSO neurons). This systematic comparison shows that I(h) characteristics vary considerably between different brainstem nuclei, and that these differences significantly affect the response properties of cells within these nuclei.
Intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) represents an important risk factor for perinatal complications and for adult disease. IUGR is associated with a down-regulation of placental amino acid transporters; however, whether these changes are primary events directly contributing to IUGR or a secondary consequence is unknown. We investigated the time course of changes in placental and fetal growth, placental nutrient transport in vivo and the expression of placental nutrient transporters in pregnant rats subjected to protein malnutrition, a model for IUGR. Pregnant rats were given either a low protein (LP) diet (n = 64) or an isocaloric control diet (n = 66) throughout pregnancy. Maternal insulin, leptin and IGF-I levels decreased, whereas maternal amino acid concentrations increased moderately in response to the LP diet. Fetal and placental weights in the LP group were unaltered compared to control diet at gestational day (GD) 15, 18 and 19 but significantly reduced at GD 21. Placental system A transport activity was reduced at GD 19 and 21 in response to a low protein diet. Placental protein expression of SNAT2 was decreased at GD 21. In conclusion, placental amino acid transport is down-regulated prior to the development of IUGR, suggesting that these placental transport changes are a cause, rather than a consequence, of IUGR. Reduced maternal levels of insulin, leptin and IGF-1 may link maternal protein malnutrition to reduced fetal growth by down-regulation of key placental amino acid transporters.
The stomach generates a characteristic pattern of coordinated activity whereby rings of contraction regularly start in the corpus and migrate slowly down the stomach to the duodenum. This behaviour persists after isolating the stomach and after blocking nervous activity; hence the response is myogenic, resulting from organized contractions of smooth muscle cells lying in the stomach wall. Each ring of contraction is triggered by a long lasting wave of depolarization, termed a slow wave. Slow waves are now known to be generated by sets of interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC), which intermingle with gastric smooth muscle cells. This article describes some studies which identify the roles played by ICC in the on-going generation of coordinated gastric movements. Intramuscular ICC in the corpus generate slow waves and these provide the dominant pacemaker frequency in the stomach. Corporal slow waves, in turn, activate a network of myenteric ICC, which starts in the antrum and slowly conducts waves of depolarization down the stomach. As these waves pass over bundles of circularly orientated muscle cells, they activate a set of intramuscular ICC which lie in the circular muscle layer: these generate slow waves that rapidly spread radially, so triggering each ring of contraction.
In the middle of the last century, Michel Jouvet discovered paradoxical sleep (PS), a sleep phase paradoxically characterized by cortical activation and rapid eye movements and a muscle atonia. Soon after, he showed that it was still present in &quot;pontine cats&quot; in which all structures rostral to the brainstem have been removed. Later on, it was demonstrated that the pontine peri-locus coeruleus alpha (peri-LCalpha in cats, corresponding to the sublaterodorsal nucleus, SLD, in rats) is responsible for PS onset. It was then proposed that the onset and maintenance of PS is due to a reciprocal inhibitory interaction between neurons presumably cholinergic specifically active during PS localized in this region and monoaminergic neurons. In the last decade, we have tested this hypothesis with our model of head-restrained rats and functional neuroanatomical studies. Our results confirmed that the SLD in rats contains the neurons responsible for the onset and maintenance of PS. They further indicate that (1) these neurons are non-cholinergic possibly glutamatergic neurons, (2) they directly project to the glycinergic premotoneurons localized in the medullary ventral gigantocellular reticular nucleus (GiV), (3) the main neurotransmitter responsible for their inhibition during waking (W) and slow wave sleep (SWS) is GABA rather than monoamines, (4) they are constantly and tonically excited by glutamate and (5) the GABAergic neurons responsible for their tonic inhibition during W and SWS are localized in the deep mesencephalic reticular nucleus (DPMe). We also showed that the tonic inhibition of locus coeruleus (LC) noradrenergic and dorsal raphe (DRN) serotonergic neurons during sleep is due to a tonic GABAergic inhibition by neurons localized in the dorsal paragigantocellular reticular nucleus (DPGi) and the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray (vlPAG). We propose that these GABAergic neurons also inhibit the GABAergic neurons of the DPMe at the onset and during PS and are therefore responsible for the onset and maintenance of PS.
Circadian clocks are autonomous time-keeping mechanisms that allow living organisms to predict and adapt to environmental rhythms of light, temperature and food availability. At the molecular level, circadian clocks use clock and clock-controlled genes to generate rhythmicity and distribute temporal signals. In mammals, synchronization of the master circadian clock located in the suprachiasmatic nuclei of the hypothalamus is accomplished mainly by light stimuli. Meal time, that can be experimentally modulated by temporal restricted feeding, is a potent synchronizer for peripheral oscillators with no clear synchronizing influence on the suprachiasmatic clock. Furthermore, food-restricted animals are able to predict meal time, as revealed by anticipatory bouts of locomotor activity, body temperature and plasma corticosterone. These food anticipatory rhythms have long been thought to be under the control of a food-entrainable clock (FEC). Analysis of clock mutant mice has highlighted the relevance of some, but not all of the clock genes for food-entrainable clockwork. Mutations of Clock or Per1 do not impair expression of food anticipatory components, suggesting that these clock genes are not essential for food-entrainable oscillations. By contrast, mice mutant for Npas2 or deficient for Cry1 and Cry2 show more or less altered responses to restricted feeding conditions. Moreover, a lack of food anticipation is specifically associated with a mutation of Per2, demonstrating the critical involvement of this gene in the anticipation of meal time. The actual location of the FEC is not yet clearly defined. Nevertheless, current knowledge of the putative brain regions involved in food-entrainable oscillations is discussed. We also describe several neurochemical pathways, including orexinergic and noradrenergic, likely to participate in conveying inputs to and outputs from the FEC to control anticipatory processes.
Central pattern generators (CPGs) are defined as neuronal circuits capable of producing a rhythmic and coordinated output without the influence of sensory input. The locomotor and respiratory neuronal circuits are two of the better-characterized CPGs, although much work remains to fully understand how these networks operate. Glutamatergic neurons are involved in most neuronal circuits of the nervous system and considerable efforts have been made to study glutamate receptors in nervous system signaling using a variety of approaches. Because of the complexity of glutamate-mediated signaling and the variety of receptors triggered by glutamate, it has been difficult to pinpoint the role of glutamatergic neurons in neuronal circuits. In addition, glutamate is an amino acid used by every cell, which has hampered identification of glutamatergic neurons. Glutamatergic excitatory neurotransmission is dependent on the release from glutamate-filled presynaptic vesicles loaded by three members of the solute carrier family, Slc17a6-8, which function as vesicular glutamate transporters (VGLUTs). Recent data describe that Vglut2 (Slc17a6) null mutant mice die immediately after birth due to a complete loss of the stable autonomous respiratory rhythm generated by the pre-Btzinger complex. Surprisingly, we found that basal rhythmic locomotor activity is not affected in Vglut2 null mutant embryos. With this perspective, we discuss data regarding presence of VGLUT1, VGLUT2 and VGLUT3 positive neuronal populations in the spinal cord.
Arginine vasopressin (AVP) has been shown to promote the disruption of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and the formation of edema in various animal models of brain injury. However, the source(s) of this AVP have not been identified. Since the cerebral cortex was considerably affected in some of these brain injury models, we sought to determine if AVP was produced in the cerebral cortex, and, if so, whether or not this cortical AVP expression was up regulated after injury. In the present study, a controlled cortical impact model of traumatic brain injury (TBI) in rats was used, and the temporal changes in expression of AVP and its V(1a) receptor were analyzed by real-time reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction. The expression of AVP and its V(1a) receptor in the ipsilateral cortex adjacent to the lesion area was significantly up regulated between 4 h and 1 day post-TBI. The maximum increase in mRNA for AVP (4.3-fold) and its receptor (2.6-fold) in the ipsilateral vs. contralateral cortex was observed at 6 h post-TBI. Compared to sham-injured rats, no statistically significant changes in expression of AVP or its receptor were found in the contralateral cortex. These results suggest that the cerebral cortex is an important source of AVP in the injured brain, and the parallel increase in the expression of AVP and its cognate receptor may act to augment the actions of AVP related to promoting the disruption of the BBB and the formation of post-traumatic edema.


Representing a major shift in criminal justice policy, Proposition 36 became law in November 2000 as the Substance Abuse and Crime Prevention Act (SACPA), permitting eligible offenders to receive probation with drug treatment instead of probation or incarceration. UCLA's Integrated Substance Abuse Programs was chosen by the California Department of Alcohol and Drug Programs to conduct an independent evaluation of SACPA. Analysis of the first three years of data provides information on the flow of offenders through SACPA, client and program characteristics, treatment completion rates, and effects on re-offending. Results show that most eligible offenders chose to participate in SACPA; almost two-thirds of these went on to enter treatment. Compared to other treatment clients, SACPA treatment clients included fewer women, were predominately between 26 and 45 years old, were more likely to use methamphetamine, and had been using drugs a longer. Most SACPA clients were referred to outpatient drug-free treatment regardless of primary drug problem, and about one-third completed treatment. Re-offending was lowest among SACPA offenders who completed treatment. Felony and misdemeanor drug arrests were higher among SACPA-era drug offenders than in a similar group of pre-SACPA drug offenders. Future reports will cover possible SACPA cost savings, additional clients outcomes, and overall lessons learned.
The acute and subchronic effects of low doses nocturnally administered amitriptyline were compared to placebo in a double-blind crossover randomized study on driving ability and driving-related skills involving seven chronic neuropathic pain patients. Performance testing occurred at the first and last day of each 15-day drug administration period, which was preceded by a 6-day washout phase. A standardized method of measuring driving ability, the on-the-road driving test, was performed on all visits. Patients were instructed to drive with a steady lateral position while maintaining a constant speed of 95 km/h. The primary outcome of the driving test is the Standard Deviation of Lateral Position (SDLP, cm), which is an index of weaving of the car. At the first treatment day, driving performance was significantly impaired in patients after nocturnal administration of 25 mg amitriptyline compared to placebo. The increase in SDLP of 3 cm was higher than the increment generally observed with a blood alcohol concentration of 0.5 mg/ml or higher, the legal limit for driving in many countries. Also, reaction times on a memory test were significantly increased, indicating worse performance after acute treatment of amitriptyline compared to placebo. In contrast, after 2 weeks of treatment, no significant differences were found between amitriptyline and placebo, suggesting that tolerance had developed to the impairing effects of amitriptyline.
Single doses of the traditional herbal treatment Panax ginseng have recently been shown to lower blood glucose levels and elicit cognitive improvements in healthy, overnight-fasted volunteers. The specific mechanisms responsible for these effects are not known. However, cognitive improvements may be related to the glycaemic properties of Panax ginseng. Using a double-blind, placebo-controlled, balanced-crossover design, 27 healthy young adults completed a 10 minute &quot;cognitive demand&quot; test battery at baseline. They then consumed capsules containing either ginseng (extract G115) or a placebo and 30 minutes later a drink containing glucose or placebo. A further 30 minutes later (i.e. 60 minutes post-baseline/capsules) they completed the &quot;cognitive demand&quot; battery six times in immediate succession. Depending on the condition to which the participant was allocated on that particular day, the combination of capsules/drink treatments corresponded to a dose of: 0mg G115/0 mg glucose (placebo); 200mg G115/0 mg glucose (ginseng); 0 mg G115/25 g glucose (glucose) or 200 mg G115/25 g glucose (ginseng/glucose combination). The 10 minute &quot;cognitive demand&quot; battery comprised a Serial Threes subtraction task (2 min); a Serial Sevens subtraction task (2 min); a Rapid Visual Information Processing task (5 min); and a &quot;mental fatigue&quot; visual analogue scale. Blood glucose levels were measured prior to the day's treatment, and before and after the post-dose completions of the battery. The results showed that both Panax ginseng and glucose enhanced performance of a mental arithmetic task and ameliorated the increase in subjective feelings of mental fatigue experienced by participants during the later stages of the sustained, cognitively demanding task performance. Accuracy of performing the Rapid Visual Information Processing task (RVIP) was also improved following the glucose load. There was no evidence of a synergistic relationship between Panax ginseng and exogenous glucose ingestion on any cognitive outcome measure. Panax ginseng caused a reduction in blood glucose levels 1 hour following consumption when ingested without glucose. These results confirm that Panax ginseng may possess glucoregulatory properties and can enhance cognitive performance.
Physical and emotional stress and altered reactivity of the autonomic nervous system have been implicated in the development and maintenance of fibromyalgia syndrome (FMS). This study investigated blood pressure, heart rate (HR), skin conductance levels (SCL), and surface electromyograms (EMG) from the trapezius muscle in 30 FMS patients and 30 age- and sex-matched healthy controls (HCs). All measures were continuously recorded during baseline (BL), social conflict, mental arithmetic, and relaxation tasks. The FMS patients showed significantly higher stress ratings and self-reported stress responses. Baseline EMG levels were significantly lower, and BL HR was significantly elevated. During both stress tasks, HR reactivity was significantly lower, and SCL reactivity was significantly higher in the FMS group. This pattern of low BL muscle tension and high BL HR, along with low HR and high SCL reactivity to stress, is discrepant to other chronic pain syndromes and suggests unique psychophysiological features associated with FMS. Several potential mechanisms for these psychophysiological responses are discussed.



High blood pressure (BP), pulse pressure (PP), and rate pressure product (RPP) are each associated independently with a poor outcome in acute ischemic stroke. Whereas nitric oxide (NO) donors, such as glyceryl trinitrate (GTN), lower blood pressure in acute ischemic stroke, their effect on other hemodynamic measures is not known. We performed a systematic review of the effects of NO donors on systemic hemodynamic measures in patients with acute/subacute stroke. Randomized controlled trials were identified from searches of the Cochrane Library, Pubmed, and Embase. Information on hemodynamic measures, including systolic BP (SBP), diastolic BP (DBP), and heart rate, were assessed, and hemodynamic derivatives of these were calculated: PP (PP = SBP - DBP), mean arterial pressure (MAP = DBP + PP/3), mid blood pressure (MBP = (SBP + DBP)/2), pulse pressure index (PPI = PP/MAP), and RPP (RPP = SBP x HR). The effect of treatment on hemodynamic measures was calculated as the weighted mean difference (WMD) between treated and control groups with adjustment for baseline. Three trials involving 145 patients were identified; 93 patients received the NO donor, GTN, and 52 patients composed the control group. Compared with placebo, GTN significantly reduced SBP (WMD, -9.80 mm Hg; P &lt; .001), DBP (WMD, -4.43 mm Hg; P &lt; .001), MAP (WMD, - 6.41 mm Hg; P &lt; .001), MBP (WMD, -7.33 mm Hg; P &lt; .001), PP (WMD, -6.11 mm Hg; P &lt; .001), and PPI (WMD, -0.03; P = .04). GTN increased HR (WMD, +3.87 bpm; P &lt; .001) and lowered RPP insignificantly (WMD, -323 mm Hg.bpm; P = .14). Our findings indicate that the NO donor GTN reduces BP, PP, and other derivatives in acute and subacute stroke while increasing HR.
The infectious cycle of the human polyomavirus JC (JCV) is ultimately regulated in cellular nuclei at the level of viral protein expression and genomic replication. Such activity is prompted by interactions between variant nucleotide sequences within the JCV regulatory region (promoter) and cellular transcription factors that bind specific DNA consensus sites. In previous work we identified an NF-1 class member, NF-1X, as a critical transcription factor affecting the JCV cellular host range. Within variant JCV promoters, as well as other viral and cellular promoters, adjacently located NF-1 and AP-1 consensus sites are often found. The close proximity of these two binding sites suggests the opportunity for interaction between NF-1 and AP-1 proteins. Here, by electrophoretic mobility shift assays, we show temporal and dose-dependent interference by an AP-1 family member, c-Jun, upon NF-1 proteins binding an NF-1 consensus site derived from JCV promoter sequence. Moreover, as demonstrated by protein-protein interaction assays, we identify specific binding affinity independent of DNA binding between NF-1X and c-Jun. Finally, to compare the binding profiles of NF-1X and c-Jun on JCV promoter sequence in parallel with in vivo detection of viral activity levels, we developed an anchored transcriptional promoter (ATP) assay. With use of extracts from JCV-infected cells transfected to overexpress either NF-1X or c-Jun, ATP assays showed concurrent increases in NF-1X binding and viral protein expression. Conversely, increased c-Jun binding accompanied decreases in both NF-1X binding and viral protein expression. Therefore, inhibition of NF-1X binding by c-Jun appears to play a role in regulating levels of JCV activity.
Microfluidic channels are microreactors with a wide range of applications, including molecular separations based upon micro/nanoscale physicochemical properties, targeting and delivery of small amount of fluids and molecules, and patterned/directed growth. Their successful applications would require a detailed understanding of phenomena associated with the microscale flow of liquids through these channels, including velocity, viscosity and miscibility. Here we demonstrate a highly sensitive piezoresistive cantilever to measure flow properties in microfluidic channels. By milling down the legs of the piezoresistive cantilevers, we have achieved significantly higher mechanical sensitivity and a smaller spring constant, as determined by AFM. These cantilevers were used in microchannels to measure the viscosity and flow rate of ethylene glycol mixtures in water over a range of concentrations, as well as of low viscosity biologically relevant buffers with different serum levels. The sensor can be used alone or can be integrated in AFM systems for multidimensional study in micro and nanochannels.
Lesions of the basolateral amygdala (BLA) have long been associated with abnormalities of taste-related behaviors and with failure in a variety of taste- and odor-related learning paradigms, including taste-potentiated odor aversion, conditioned taste preference, and conditioned taste aversion. Still, the general role of the amygdala in chemosensory learning remains somewhat controversial. In particular, it has been suggested that the amygdala may not be involved in a form of chemosensory learning that has recently received a substantial amount of study-socially transmitted food preference (STFP). Here, we provide evidence for this involvement by pharmacologically inactivating the basolateral amygdala bilaterally during STFP training. The same inactivation sites that impaired taste aversion learning eliminated the normally conditioned preference for a food smelled on a conspecific's breath. Impairments of learned preference persisted even in testing sessions in which BLA was not inactivated, and learning was normal when the BLA was inactivated only during testing sessions; thus, the impairment was a true acquisition deficit. In conjunction with previous results from other paradigms, therefore, our data suggest that the amygdala is vital for learning procedures involving pairings of potent and arbitrary chemosensory stimuli.
The persistence of new memory traces in the hippocampus, encoded following appropriate activation of glutamatergic receptors and the induction of synaptic plasticity, can be influenced by heterosynaptic activation of neuromodulatory brain systems. We therefore investigated the effects of a hippocampus-specific blockade of dopamine D1/D5 receptors on the persistence of spatial memory encoded in one trial using a delayed matching-to-place (DMP) task in a watermaze in which rats learn a new escape location each day. A within-subjects design was used such that both short (20 min) and long (6 h) retention intervals, and both drug (SCH23390, a D1/D5 receptor antagonist) and vehicle (aCSF) infusions were tested on different days in the same animals. Bilateral intrahippocampal infusion of SCH23390 (5 microg in 1 microL per side) prior to trial 1 (encoding) caused a differential impairment as a function of memory delay-with no effect during trial 2 (memory retrieval) after a 20-min interval, but a block of memory at 6 h. Further experiments revealed that infusion of SCH23390 immediately after trial 1 had no effect on retention 6 h later, and the poor memory seen at long retention intervals when the drug was present at encoding was not due to a state-dependent failure of retrieval. These results suggest that activation of D1/D5 receptors during memory encoding is necessary for the formation of a persistent memory trace in the hippocampus. The complementary effects of D1/D5 receptor blockade on the persistence of LTP and the duration of memory are consistent with the idea that changes in synaptic strength underlie memory.
Genomic alterations in lung cancer tissues have been observed in various studies. To analyze the aberrations in the genome of lung cancer patients, we used array comparative genomic hybridization (array CGH) in 15 lung adenocarcinoma (AdC) tissues. Copy number gains and losses in chromosomal regions were detected and corresponding genes were confirmed by real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR). As for the results, several frequently altered loci, including gain of 16p (46% of samples), were found, and the most common losses were found in 14q32.33 (26% of samples). High-level DNA amplifications (&gt; 0.8 log(2) ratio) were detected at 1p, 5p, 7p, 9p, 11p, 11q, 12q, 14q, 16p, 17q, 19q, 20p, 21q, and 22q. A subset of genes, gained or lost, was checked for over- or underrepresentation by means of real-time PCR. The degree of fold change was highest in ECGF1 (22q13.33), HOXA9 (7p15.2), MAFG (17q25.3), TSC2 (16p13.3), and ICAM1 (19p13.2) genes and the 16p chromosome terminal region (16p13.3pter). Taken together, these results show that array CGH could be used as a powerful tool for identification of genomic alteration for lung cancer, and the above-mentioned genes may represent potential candidate genes in the study of lung cancer pathogenesis and diagnosis.
Regional perfusion imaging (RPI) based on pulsed arterial spin labeling and angulated inversion slabs has been recently proposed. The technique allows mapping of individual brain perfusion territories of the major feeding arteries and could become a valuable clinical tool for evaluation of patients with cerebrovascular diseases. Here we propose a new labeling scheme for RPI where lateral and posterior circulations are labeled simultaneously. Two scans instead of three are sufficient to obtain the same perfusion territories as in the original approach, allowing for a 33% reduction in the total RPI protocol time. Moreover, the position of the inversion slabs with respect to vascular anatomy facilitates the planning and allows potentially better labeling efficiency. The new approach was tested on seven healthy volunteers and compared to the original labeling scheme. The results showed that the same perfusion territories and regional CBF values can be obtained.

Reports in the literature have attributed medical student fear of neurology to an inability to apply knowledge of the basic science to clinical situations. A teaching and learning initiative called case based teaching (CBT) was designed to help medical undergraduates integrate clinical neurology with the neuroscience that underpins it. In the context of the evaluation of a neurological case, students learned the correct technique for eliciting a large number of signs and symptoms, while applying their understanding of normal structure and function to interpret and understand the history, examination and investigation findings. Students were very positive about the practical, problem-solving, small group-learning environment, reporting that it facilitated the integration of nervous system structure and function with clinical medicine. Some admitted to a fear of neurology, which was helped by the limited initiative, but requested more CBT sessions to reduce their neurophobia. Many eminent groups in neurology education recommend integration of teaching in basic science and clinical neurology, and this report indicates that medical undergraduates value this approach too.
We conducted three experiments using a list paradigm to examine how articulatory suppression and response-stimulus interval (RSI) manipulation affected task switching. Experiments 1 and 2 tested task-switching performance under a short and long RSI and three concurrent task conditions (control, articulatory suppression, and tapping) without external task cues. The results indicated that alternation had a greater effect under articulatory suppression than under the control and tapping conditions, and that articulatory suppression costs were unrelated to the RSI. In Experiment 3, an external task cue was provided with each stimulus, and the negative effect of articulatory suppression on alternation cost was eliminated. These results indicated that articulatory suppression effects did not differ between conditions of short and long RSI and that the availability of verbal representations of task information was independent of RSI length. This paper discussed the possible roles played by the phonological loop in task-switching paradigms.
Several studies in the literature investigated the association between temporomandibular disorders (TMD) and otogenous symptoms, like vertigo, tinnitus, otalgia and muffling, although the question of the existence of a cause-effect relationship is still controversial. Epidemiological findings showed that the prevalence of ear symptomatology in the general population is variable from 10% to 31%, and increases up to 85% in TMD patients. Based on these data, many attempts have been performed to describe the physiopathological interactions between aural symptoms and TMD, as a strict anatomical link exists between the structures of the ear and those of the stomatognathic system. Unfortunately, methodological weaknesses of most studies are evident so that the comparison of results is often difficult. Considering these premises, the present study critically reviewed the literature on this debated issue, discussing the main etiopathogenetic hypotheses, the features of ear symptomatology in TMD patients and its relationship with TMD treatment in order to present current suggestions about the relationship between aural and TMD symptoms. Suggestions for future researches have been also presented, since a full understanding of this plausible interaction will be an important factor in diagnosis making and treatment planning for both pathologies.
The Rho family GTPases RhoA (Rho), Rac1, and Cdc42 are essential effectors of integrin-mediated cell attachment and spreading. Rho activity, which promotes formation of focal adhesions and actin stress fibers, is inhibited upon initial cell attachment to allow sampling of the new adhesive environment. The Abl-related gene (Arg) tyrosine kinase mediates adhesion-dependent inhibition of Rho through phosphorylation and activation of the Rho inhibitor p190RhoGAP-A (p190). p190 phosphorylation promotes its binding to p120RasGAP (p120). Here, we elucidate the mechanism by which p120 binding regulates p190 activation after adhesion. We show that p190 requires its p120-binding domain to undergo Arg-dependent activation in vivo. However, p120 binding does not activate p190RhoGAP activity in vitro. Instead, activation of p190 requires recruitment to the cell periphery. Integrin-mediated adhesion promotes relocalization of p190 and p120 to the cell periphery in wild-type fibroblasts, but not in arg(-/-) fibroblasts. A dominant-negative p120 fragment blocks p190:p120 complex formation, prevents activation of p190 by adhesion, and disrupts the adhesion-dependent recruitment of p190 to the cell periphery. Our results demonstrate that integrin signaling through Arg activates p190 by promoting its association with p120, resulting in recruitment of p190 to the cell periphery where it inhibits Rho.
The Ca(2+)/calmodulin (CaM)-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII)beta has morphogenic functions in neurons not shared by the alpha isoform. CaMKIIbeta contains three exons (v1, v3, and v4) not present in the CaMKIIalpha gene, and two of these exons (v1 and v4) are subject to differential alternative splicing. We show here that CaMKIIbeta, but not alpha, mediated bundling of F-actin filaments in vitro. Most importantly, inclusion of exon v1 was required for CaMKIIbeta association with the F-actin cytoskeleton within cells. CaMKIIbetae, which is the dominant variant around birth and lacks exon v1 sequences, failed to associate with F-actin. By contrast, CaMKIIbeta', which instead lacks exon v4, associated with F-actin as full-length CaMKIIbeta. Previous studies with CaMKIIbeta mutants have indicated a role of nonstimulated kinase activity in enhancing dendritic arborization. Here, we show that F-actin-targeted CaMKIIbeta, but not alpha, was able to phosphorylate actin in vitro even by nonstimulated basal activity in absence of Ca(2+)/CaM. In rat pancreatic islets and in skeletal muscle, the actin-associated CaMKIIbeta' and betaM were the predominant variants, respectively. Thus, cytoskeletal targeting may mediate functions of CaMKIIbeta variants also outside the nervous system.
Serum- and glucocorticoid-inducible kinase 1 (SGK1) is a member of the Ser/Thr protein kinase family that regulates a variety of cell functions. Recently, SGK1 was shown to increase dendritic growth but the mechanism underlying the increase is unknown. Here we demonstrated that SGK1 increased the neurite formation of cultured hippocampal neurons through microtubule (MT) depolymerization via two distinct mechanisms. First, SGK1 directly depolymerized MTs. In vitro MT depolymerization experiments revealed that SGK1, especially N-truncated SGK1, directly disassembled self-polymerized MTs and taxol-stabilized MTs in a dose-dependent and ATP-independent manner. The transfection of sgk1 to HeLa cells also inhibited MT assembly in vivo. Second, SGK1 indirectly depolymerized MTs through the phosphorylation of tau at Ser214. An in vitro kinase assay revealed that active SGK1 phosphorylated tau Ser214 specifically. In vivo transfection of sgk1 also phosphorylated tau Ser214 in HEK293T cells and hippocampal neurons. Further, sgk1 transfection significantly increased the number of primary neurites and shortened the length of the total process in cultured hippocampal neurons. These effects were antagonized by the cotransfection of the tauS214A mutant plasmid. Dexamethasone, a synthetic glucocorticoid, mimics the effect of sgk1 overexpression. Together, these results suggest that SGK1 enhances neurite formation through MT depolymerization by a direct action of SGK1 and by the SGK1 phosphorylation of tau.
The cysteine protease calpain 3 (CAPN3) is essential for normal muscle function, since mutations in CAPN3 cause limb girdle muscular dystrophy type 2A. Previously, we showed that myoblasts isolated from CAPN3 knockout (C3KO) mice were able to fuse to myotubes; however, sarcomere formation was disrupted. In this study we further characterized morphological and biochemical features of C3KO myotubes in order to elucidate a role for CAPN3 during myogenesis. We showed that cell cycle withdrawal occurred normally in C3KO cultures, but C3KO myotubes have an increased number of myonuclei per myotube. We found that CAPN3 acts during myogenesis to specifically control levels of membrane-associated but not cytoplasmic beta-catenin and M-cadherin. CAPN3 was able to cleave both proteins, and in the absence of CAPN3, M-cadherin and beta-catenin abnormally accumulated at the membranes of myotubes. Given the role of M-cadherin in myoblast fusion, this finding suggests that the excessive myonuclear index of C3KO myotubes was due to enhanced fusion. Postfusion events, such as beta1D integrin expression and myofibrillogenesis, were suppressed in C3KO myotubes. These data suggest that the persistence of fusion observed in C3KO cells inhibits subsequent steps of differentiation, such as integrin complex rearrangements and sarcomere assembly.
Nestin-positive cells were targeted for pRb, p107 and p130 (pRb(f)) inactivation by expression of T(121), a truncated SV40 large T antigen that selectively binds to and inactivates pRb(f). Cre expression was initiated under GFAP control, resulting in T(121) expression restricted to neuroprogenitor cells beginning at embryonic day 11.5 (E11.5). Bi-transgenic embryos showed aberrant central nervous system (CNS) cell proliferation and apoptosis by E13.5. Defects in cortical development were evident with primary effects resulting in depletion of neural progenitors and aberrant cellular migration. Consequently, juvenile and adult brain morphology was reproducibly abnormal, including disorganization of neocortical, hippocampal and cerebellar regions. These aberrations resulted in behavioral phenotypes, including ataxia and seizures. The data indicate that inactivation of pRb(f) in radial glial cells, a population of neuroprogenitor cells, leads to specific disruptions in CNS patterning. The neuroprogenitor-restricted transgene expression provides a model in which to explore both developmental mechanisms and functional neurological outcomes.
Elevated levels of amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta) are found in Down's syndrome patients and alter synaptic function during the early stages of Alzheimer's disease. Dendritic spines, sites of most excitatory synaptic contacts, are considered to be an important locus for encoding synaptic plasticity. We used time-lapse two-photon imaging of hippocampal pyramidal neurons in organotypic slices to study the effects of Abeta on the development of dendritic spines. We report that exposure of hippocampal neurons to sub-lethal levels of Abeta decreased spine density, increased spine length and subdued spine motility. The effect of Abeta on spine density was reversible. Moreover, Abeta's effect on dendritic spine density was blocked by rolipram, a phosphodiesterase type IV inhibitor, suggesting the involvement of a cAMP dependent pathway. These findings raise the possibility that Abeta-induced spine alterations could underlie the cognitive defects in Alzheimer's disease and Down syndrome.
Highly dynamic mitochondrial morphology is a prerequisite for fusion and fission. Mitochondrial fusion may represent a rescue mechanism for impaired mitochondria by exchanging constituents (proteins, lipids and mitochondrial DNA) and thus maintaining functionality. Here we followed for the first time the dynamics of a protein complex of the respiratory chain during fusion and fission. HeLa cells with differently labelled respiratory Complex I were fused and the dynamics of Complex I were investigated. The mitochondrial proteins spread throughout the whole mitochondrial population within 3 to 6 h after induction of cell fusion. Mitochondria of fused cells displayed a patchy substructure where the differently labelled proteins occupied separate and distinct spaces. This patchy appearance was already--although less pronounced--observed within single mitochondria before fusion, indicating a specific localization of Complex I with restricted diffusion within the inner membrane. These findings substantiate the view of a homogenous mitochondrial population due to constantly rearranging mitochondria, but also indicate the existence of distinct inner mitochondrial sub-compartments for respiratory chain complexes.
Accumulating evidence indicates that dopamine and D1 receptor ligands modulate N-methyl D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors through a variety of D1 receptor-dependent mechanisms. In this study, we reveal a distinct D1 receptor-independent mechanism by which NMDA receptors are modulated. Using the human embryonic kidney (HEK) cell recombinant system and dissociated neurons, we have discovered that dopamine and several D1 ligands act as voltage-dependent, open-channel blockers for NMDA receptors, regardless of whether they are agonists or antagonists for D1 receptors. Analysis of structural and functional relationships of D1 ligands revealed the elements that are critical for their binding to NMDA receptors. Furthermore, using D1 receptor knockout mice, we verified that this channel-blocking effect was independent of D1 receptors. Finally, we demonstrated that D1 ligands functionally interact with Mg(2+) block through multiple sites, implying a possible role of the direct channel block under physiological conditions. Our results suggest that the direct inhibition of NMDA receptors by dopamine D1 receptor ligands is due to the channel pore block rather than receptor-receptor interactions.
The peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma), a member of the nuclear hormone receptor family, represents a possible new target in glioma therapy. Because PPARgamma plays a crucial role in regulation of insulin sensitivity, synthetic agonists are already in clinical use for type II diabetes treatment. Beyond these metabolic effects, PPARgamma agonists exhibit antineoplastic effects. In this study, we investigated the antineoplastic effects of the PPARgamma agonist pioglitazone in glioma cells. Pioglitazone reduced cellular viability of rat, human, and PPARgamma-overexpressing glioma cells in vitro in a time- and concentration-dependent manner. No antineoplastic effects were induced by pioglitazone in glioma cells overexpressing a PPARgamma mutant. Furthermore, proliferation was reduced by pioglitazone, as measured by Ki-67 immunoreactivity, in vitro. Continuous intracerebral infusion of pioglitazone into gliomas induced by intrastriatal injection of C6 cells reduced tumor volumes by 83%. Oral administration of pioglitazone reduced tumor volumes by 76.9%. Subsequent brain tissue analysis revealed induction of apoptotic cell death. Ki-67 expression and BrdU incorporation revealed a reduction of proliferation in vivo. Reduced invasion of C6 cells and lower matrix metalloproteinase 9 levels in vivo indicate pioglitazone-mediated reduction of invasion. Together, these data indicate that pioglitazone may be of potential use in treatment of malignant gliomas.
Nicotinic cholinergic receptors (nAChRs) are present in ganglia in the peripheral nervous system. In autonomic ganglia, they are responsible for fast synaptic transmission, whereas in the sensory ganglia and sensory neurons, they may be involved in modulation of neurotransmission. The present study measured nAChRs in several rat autonomic ganglia: the superior cervical ganglia (SCG), sensory nodose ganglia, stellate ganglia, and pelvic ganglia. The densities of the heteromeric nAChRs determined by receptor binding assay in those four ganglia are 481, 45, 9, and 11 fmol/mg protein, respectively. Immunoprecipitation studies with subunit-specific antibodies showed that a majority of the nAChRs in the SCG and nodose ganglia contain the alpha3 and beta4 subunits, but a significant percentage of the nAChRs in these ganglia also contain alpha5 and beta2 subunits. A small percentage of the nAChRs in nodose ganglia also contain alpha2 and alpha4 subunits. Sequential immunoprecipitation assays indicated that in the SCG, all alpha5 subunits are associated with alpha3 and beta4 subunits, forming the mixed heteromeric alpha3beta4alpha5 subtype. A receptor composed of alpha3, beta2, and beta4 subunits in the SCG was also detected. In rat SCG, we found the following distribution of nAChRs subtypes: 55 to 60% simple alpha3beta4 subtype, 25 to 30% alpha3beta4alpha5 subtype, and 10 to 15% alpha3beta4beta2 subtype. These findings indicate that the nAChRs in SCG and nodose ganglia are heterogeneous, which suggests that different receptor subtypes may play different roles in these ganglia or may be activated under different conditions.
The NR4A2 gene, which may cause autosomal dominant Parkinson's disease (PD), has also been reported to be a susceptibility factor for sporadic PD. Here, we use a haplotype-tagging approach in 802 PD patients and 784 controls and demonstrate that common genetic variation, including NR4A2 haplotypes, does not influence the risk of PD in the Caucasian population.
We aimed to determine prospectively whether rivastigmine, an inhibitor of acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase, provided benefits in patients with and without visual hallucinations in a population with dementia associated with Parkinson's disease (PDD). This was a 24-week double-blind placebo-controlled study. Primary efficacy measures were the Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale cognitive subscale (ADAS-cog) and Alzheimer's Disease Cooperative Study-Clinician's Global Impression of Change (ADCS-CGIC). Secondary efficacy measures included activities of daily living, behavioral symptoms, and executive and attentional functions. Patients were stratified according to the presence of visual hallucinations at baseline. The study included 188 visual hallucinators (118 on rivastigmine, 70 on placebo) and 348 nonvisual hallucinators (239 on rivastigmine, 109 on placebo). Rivastigmine provided benefits in both visual hallucinators and nonvisual hallucinators. Absolute responses to rivastigmine on the ADAS-cog were comparable over 6 months, although rivastigmine-placebo differences tended to be larger in visual hallucinators (4.27; P = 0.002) than in nonhallucinators (2.09; P = 0.015). On the ADCS-CGIC, differences between rivastigmine and placebo were 0.5 in visual hallucinators (P = 0.030) and 0.3 in nonhallucinators (P = 0.111). Rivastigmine provided benefits on all secondary efficacy measures, and placebo declines and treatment differences were more marked in visual hallucinators. Adverse events were reported more frequently by rivastigmine-treated patients, although this difference was less marked in visual hallucinators. Visual hallucinations appear to predict more rapid decline and possibly greater therapeutic benefit from rivastigmine treatment in PDD.
For many years, levodopa has given most patients with Parkinson's disease excellent symptomatic benefit. This agent does not slow down the progression of the disease, however, and it can induce motor fluctuations and dyskinesias in the long term. The other available antiparkinsonian agents also have drawbacks, and as a consequence research into antiparkinsonian drugs is expected to take new and different directions in the coming years. The most promising approaches include the development of 'neuroprotective' drugs that are capable of blocking or at least slowing down the degenerative process that is responsible for cellular death; 'restorative' strategies intended to restore normal brain function; more-effective agents for replacing dopamine loss; and symptomatic and antidyskinetic drugs that act on neurotransmitters other than dopamine or target brain areas other than the striatum. In this Review, we discuss the numerous drugs in development that target the primary motor disorder in Parkinson's disease.
Brain hemorrhage is a serious complication of tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) therapy for ischemic stroke. Here we report that activated protein C (APC), a plasma serine protease with systemic anticoagulant, anti-inflammatory and antiapoptotic activities, and direct vasculoprotective and neuroprotective activities, blocks tPA-mediated brain hemorrhage after transient brain ischemia and embolic stroke in rodents. We show that APC inhibits a pro-hemorrhagic tPA-induced, NF-kappaB-dependent matrix metalloproteinase-9 pathway in ischemic brain endothelium in vivo and in vitro by acting through protease-activated receptor 1. The present findings suggest that APC may improve thrombolytic therapy for stroke, in part, by reducing tPA-mediated hemorrhage.
Persistent viral infections are a major health concern. One obstacle inhibiting the clearance of persistent infections is functional inactivation of antiviral T cells. Although such immunosuppression occurs rapidly after infection, the mechanisms that induce the loss of T-cell activity and promote viral persistence are unknown. Herein we document that persistent viral infection in mice results in a significant upregulation of interleukin (IL)-10 by antigen-presenting cells, leading to impaired T-cell responses. Genetic removal of Il10 resulted in the maintenance of robust effector T-cell responses, the rapid elimination of virus and the development of antiviral memory T-cell responses. Therapeutic administration of an antibody that blocks the IL-10 receptor restored T-cell function and eliminated viral infection. Thus, we identify a single molecule that directly induces immunosuppression leading to viral persistence and demonstrate that a therapy to neutralize IL-10 results in T-cell recovery and the prevention of viral persistence.
Photoreceptor cells are incessantly bombarded with photons of light, which, along with the cells' high rate of oxygen metabolism, continuously exposes them to elevated levels of toxic reactive oxygen intermediates (ROIs). Vacancy-engineered mixed-valence-state cerium oxide nanoparticles (nanoceria particles) scavenge ROIs. Our data show that nanoceria particles prevent increases in the intracellular concentrations of ROIs in primary cell cultures of rat retina and, in vivo, prevent loss of vision due to light-induced degeneration of photoreceptor cells. These data indicate that the nanoceria particles may be effective in inhibiting the progression of ROI-induced cell death, which is thought to be involved in macular degeneration, retinitis pigmentosa and other blinding diseases, as well as the ROI-induced death of other cell types in diabetes, Alzheimer's disease, atherosclerosis, stroke and so on. The use of nanoceria particles as a direct therapy for multiple diseases represents a novel strategy and suggests that they may represent a unique platform technology.
Much cognitive neuroscience has focused on determining how to improve learning. This research has promise to guide effective education reform, but future translation efforts must be evaluated as rigorously as basic science.
The cerebellum has been hypothesized to provide internal models for limb movement control. If the cerebellum is the site of an inverse dynamics model, then cerebellar neural activity should signal limb dynamics and be coupled to arm muscle activity. To address this, we recorded from 166 task-related Purkinje cells in two monkeys performing circular manual tracking under varying viscous and elastic loads. Hand forces and arm muscle activity increased with the load, and their spatial tuning differed markedly between the viscous and elastic fields. In contrast, the simple spike firing of 91.0% of the Purkinje cells was not significantly modulated by the force nor was their spatial tuning affected. For the 15 cells with a significant force effect, changes were small and isolated. These results do not support the hypothesis that Purkinje cells represent the output of an inverse dynamics model of the arm. Instead these neurons provide a kinematic representation of arm movements.
The perception/action model states that vision for perception and vision for action are processed in separate pathways. This model was inspired by observations in patient D.F. who seemed unable to use vision for perceptual tasks while retaining 'normal' visuomotor capacity. I found that D.F.'s performance is preserved in perceptual and visuomotor tasks when the required spatial information is hand-centered and impaired when the information is object-centered.
Although a limb's motion appears to be similar across unimanual and bimanual movements, here we demonstrate partial, but not complete, transfer of learning across these behavioral contexts, hidden learning that remains intact (but invisible) until the original context is again encountered, and the ability to associate two conflicting force fields simultaneously, one with each context. These results suggest partial, but not complete, overlap in the learning processes involved in the acquisition of unimanual and bimanual skills.
Phantom pain refers to pain in a body part that has been amputated or deafferented. It has often been viewed as a type of mental disorder or has been assumed to stem from pathological alterations in the region of the amputation stump. In the past decade, evidence has accumulated that phantom pain might be a phenomenon of the CNS that is related to plastic changes at several levels of the neuraxis and especially the cortex. Here, we discuss the evidence for putative pathophysiological mechanisms with an emphasis on central, and in particular cortical, changes. We cite both animal and human studies and derive suggestions for innovative interventions aimed at alleviating phantom pain.
The sensory epithelia of the inner ear contain mechanosensory hair cells and non-sensory supporting cells. Both classes of cell are heterogeneous, with phenotypes varying both between and within epithelia. The specification of individual cells as distinct types of hair cell or supporting cell is regulated through intra- and extracellular signalling pathways that have been poorly understood. However, new methodologies have resulted in significant steps forward in our understanding of the molecular pathways that direct cells towards these cell fates.
Currently a comprehensive discipline, neurobiology is the field of examining the essence of mind in contrast to psychophysiology. It is becoming more and more apparent that this aim cannot be satisfied. Neurobiology is hampered by its deeply rooted paradigm of mechanistic materialism. Thus we learn about yet unsolved &quot;hard problems.&quot; In order to recognize them as pseudoproblems, we must avoid unprovable metaphysical assumptions such as e.g., treating matter and mind as components of one organism rather than complementary but logically incommensurable means of description. To our physicalistically oriented university psychiatry, reintroducing the subject is of primary importance. At first glance, this would confront us again with unsolvable problems supposedly avoided by the psychiatric 'brain technicians' preferring object-oriented study (neuromaging, receptors). One such question is the 'fact' adverse to physical law of psychophysical interactions: it does not actually represent an insoluble hard problem but is a typical pseudoproblem resulting from false premises.
We examine mechanisms for resolving cognitive conflict in an embodied, situated, and dynamic agent, developed through an evolutionary learning process. The agent was required to solve problems of response conflict in a dual-target &quot;catching&quot; task, focusing response on one of the targets while ignoring the other. Conflict in the agent was revealed at the behavioral level in terms of increased latencies to the second target. This behavioral interference was correlated to peak violations of the network's stable state equation. At the level of the agent's neural network, peak violations were also correlated to periods of disagreement in source inputs to the agent's motor effectors. Despite observing conflict at these numerous levels, we did not find any explicit conflict monitoring mechanisms within the agent. We instead found evidence of a distributed conflict management system, characterized by competitive sources within the network. In contrast to the conflict monitoring hypothesis [Botvinick, M. M., Braver, T. S., Barch, D. M., Carter, C. S., &amp; Cohen, J. D. (2001). Conflict monitoring and cognitive control. Psychological Review, 108(3), 624-652], this agent demonstrates that resolution of cognitive conflict does not require explicit conflict monitoring. We consider the implications of our results for the conflict monitoring hypothesis.
Huntingtin, the protein product of the Huntington's disease (HD) gene, is known to interact with the tumor suppressor p53. It has recently been shown that activation of p53 upregulates the level of huntingtin, both in vitro and in vivo, whereas p53 deficiency in HD-transgenic flies and mice has been found to be beneficial. To explore further the involvement of p53 in HD pathogenesis, we generated mice homozygous for a mutant allele of Hdh (HdhQ140) and with zero, one, or two functional alleles of p53. p53 deficiency resulted in a reduction of mutant huntingtin expression in brain and testis, an increase in proenkephalin mRNA expression and a significant increase in nuclear aggregate formation in the striatum. Because aggregation of mutant huntingtin is suggested to be a protective mechanism, both the increase in aggregate load and the restoration of proenkephalin expression suggest a functional rescue of at least several aspects of the HD phenotype by a deficiency in p53.
Leber Hereditary Optic Neuropathy (LHON) is a maternally inherited form of visual loss, due to selective degeneration of retinal ganglion cells. Despite the established aetiological association between LHON and mitochondrial DNA mutations affecting complex I of the electron transport chain, the pathophysiology of this disorder remains obscure. Primary rat retinal cultures were exposed to increasing concentrations of rotenone to titrate complex I inhibition. Neural cells were more sensitive than Mller glial cells to rotenone toxicity. Rotenone induced an increase in mitochondrial-derived free radicals and lipid peroxidation. Sodium-dependent glutamate uptake, which is mostly mediated by the glutamate transporter GLAST expressed by Mller glial cells, was reduced dose-dependently by rotenone with no changes in GLAST expression. Our findings suggest that complex I-derived free radicals and disruption of glutamate transport might represent key elements for explaining the selective retinal ganglion cell death in LHON.
In the Drosophila eye, proteins with an expanded polyglutamine (polyQ) tract form nuclear and cytoplasmic inclusions and produce cytotoxicity, demonstrated as loss of eye pigmentation and structural integrity. An EP P-element that suppressed the loss of eye pigmentation was inserted 9.7 kb upstream of dmrj, a gene that encodes an ortholog of a brain-enriched cochaperone, the human MRJ (mammalian relative of DnaJ). Despite the large distance between them, quantitative polymerase chain reaction indicated that the EP could overexpress dmrj. In the retina and other neurons, transgenic dMRJ suppressed polyQ toxicity and colocalized with its inclusions. In the photoreceptors, expression of another suppressor with a J domain, dHDJ1, but not dMRJ, prior to expression of expanded polyQs dramatically promoted cytoplasmic aggregation. However, both proteins increased the level of detergent-soluble, monomeric polyQ-expanded proteins. These findings exemplify the functional similarities and differences between J domain proteins in suppressing polyQ toxicity.
Picornaviruses are a socioeconomically important family of viruses that includes the rhinoviruses and enteroviruses. Many of these viruses, including the &quot;common cold&quot; Coxsackie virus A21, maintain neurovirulent potential and may induce hippocampal injury. The behavioral implications of this injury have not been adequately explored. Using C57BL/6J mice infected with Theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus, we examined the formation of spatial memories using the Morris water maze test. Virus-infected mice had greater search error compared to sham-infected animals during the location of a hidden platform and were unable to discriminate the location of the training quadrant during the final probe trial. Furthermore, sham-infected mice were place responders whereas virus-infected mice were cue responders, indicating a lack of spatial memory formation in infected animals. Importantly, the degree of memory impairment was correlated to the extent of hippocampal injury. This suggests that picornavirus infection of the human CNS may also result in at least some degree of neurologic deficit. An important implication of such subclinical virus-induced neurologic deficit is that the injury may accumulate over the lifetime of the individual, eventually leading to the manifestation of clinical cognitive or memory deficits.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a late-onset, autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disease caused by a CAG trinucleotide expansion. The number of repeats on the HD chromosome explains most of the variability in age of onset, but genetic factors other than the HD gene are responsible for part of the residual variance. Based on the role played by the brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in neurodysfunction and neurodegeneration in HD, we searched for novel polymorphisms in the neuron restrictive silencer element located in the BDNF promoter. Then, the effect of the Val66Met variant in determining age of onset was tested in a large sample of HD carriers by using a multivariate regression approach. The CAG repeat number accounted for 62% of the variance. After correction for the predominant effect of the CAG expansion, no multiple regression model provided evidence of association between the Val66Met genotype and variation in age-at-onset. Additional studies are warranted to further investigate BDNF as genetic modifier of the HD phenotype.
Moderate elevations in circulating estradiol enhance learning in tasks that tap place learning strategies such as those requiring the use of extramaze cues. Use of place learning strategies is particularly impaired by damage to the hippocampus, a structure shown to be sensitive to estrogen treatments. We have shown that direct estrogen infusions into the dorsal hippocampus, and not the dorsolateral striatum, enhance place learning, suggesting that the hippocampus may be an important modulatory site for the effects of estrogen on place learning. The current experiment tested whether the hippocampus is indeed a critical site of estrogen modulation through classical estrogen receptors. Young adult female Sprague-Dawley rats were ovariectomized for 21 days and given systemic injections (0.1 ml) of sesame oil (OIL) or 10 microg of 17beta-estradiol-benzoate (E2), 48 and 24 h before being trained on a place task. Twenty-four hours prior to the first systemic injection, separate groups of rats received bilateral hippocampal implants of either the antiestrogen ICI 182,780 (ICI) or cholesterol vehicle. Implants were maintained until and throughout training. Intrahippocampal ICI reversed the enhancement in place learning seen with systemic E2 treatment. Unexpectedly, intrahippocampal ICI in OIL-treated rats also enhanced place learning. These data suggest that ICI may have some mixed agonist and antagonist effects in the hippocampus and that estrogen enhances place learning through activation of estrogen receptors located in the hippocampus.
The dentate gyrus (DG) is among the few areas in the mammalian brain where production of new neurons continues in the adulthood. Although its functional significance is not completely understood, several lines of evidence suggest the role of DG neurogenesis in learning and memory. Considering that long-term potentiation (LTP) is a prime candidate for the process underlying hippocampal learning and memory, these results raise the possibility that LTP and neurogenesis are closely related. Here, we investigated whether or not LTP induction in the afferent pathway triggers enhanced proliferation of progenitor cells in the DG. LTP was induced by tetanic stimulation in perforant path-DG synapses in one hemisphere, and the number of newly generated progenitor (BrdU-labeled) cells in the DG was quantified. Compared with the control hemisphere (stimulated with low-frequency pulses), the LTP-induced hemisphere contained a significantly higher number of newly generated progenitor cells in the dorsal as well as ventral DG. When CPP, an NMDA receptor antagonist, was administered, tetanic stimulation neither induced LTP nor enhanced progenitor cell proliferation, indicating that NMDA receptor activation, rather than tetanic stimulation per se, is responsible for enhanced progenitor proliferation in the control animal. Our results show that tetanic stimulation of perforant path sufficient to induce LTP increases progenitor proliferation in adult DG in an NMDA receptor-dependent manner.
The influence of estradiol on learning and memory is dependent on a number of factors. The effects of physiological levels of estradiol on the acquisition of a spatial working memory task mediated by the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and the hippocampus were examined in Experiment 1. Ovariectomized Long-Evans rats received daily injections of estradiol or vehicle were tested on the win-shift version of the radial arm maze. A high dose of estradiol benzoate (5 microg) enhanced acquisition of the task, whereas a low dose of estradiol (0.3 microg) increased the number of errors committed over 17 days of testing. Experiment 2 was conducted to examine site-specific influences of estradiol on spatial working memory in well-trained rats. Saline and estradiol cyclodextrin (0.1 and 0.9 microg) were infused into the prelimbic region of the PFC or dorsal hippocampus 40 min prior to testing on the win-shift task. Infusions of estradiol into both brain areas attenuated saline-infusion disruptions in working memory. Specifically, the higher dose of estradiol facilitated working memory when infused into the PFC, whereas the lower dose of estradiol facilitated performance when infused into the dorsal hippocampus. Moreover, working memory was significantly impaired 24 h after infusions of estradiol into the dorsal hippocampus but not the PFC. These data provide further evidence for the notion that estradiol can dose-dependently alter memory processes and suggest that facilitation or disruptions of working memory by estradiol are site- and time-specific.
Protein acetylation regulates the extent of inflammatory responses and disturbances in protein acetylation have been proposed to play an important role in inflammatory and neurodegenerative diseases. We have recently observed that histone deacetylase inhibitors, such as trichostatin A (TSA) and SAHA, strongly potentiate the LPS induced inflammatory response in several rat and mouse inflammatory models. Our aim here was to characterise pro-inflammatory signaling mediated via increased protein acetylation and protein phosphorylation in microglial N9 cells. First we observed that TSA induced pro-inflammatory response was independent of the different Toll-like receptors activated, since LPS, flagellin and unmethylated CpG oligonucleotides, equally potentiated IL-6 secretion from N9 microglia. Next we compared the protein acetylation induced potentiation to that induced by okadaic acid, a well-known inducer of pro-inflammatory responses. The time scale of the IL-6 responses showed that the effects of okadaic acid were clearly early-response effects appearing as soon as 6h after exposure, whereas TSA evoked a significant inhibition in IL-6 secretion up to 12h but after that it induced an exponential increase in cytokine and nitric oxide production up to 24h. It seems that okadaic acid induces an early moderate response and TSA a late but exponential potentiation of microglial inflammatory responses. The pro-inflammatory responses of TSA and okadaic acid were both dependent on NF-kappaB signaling but independent on the DNA-binding capacity of nuclear NF-kappaB complexes. Interestingly, we observed that the transactivation of the NF-kappaB-Luc reporter gene was clearly activated during TSA induced pro-inflammatory potentiation. Our studies imply that the potentiation of the inflammatory response by increased acetylation is due to the enhancement of transactivation of NF-kappaB driven inflammatory genes. Our studies on signaling pathways revealed that PI3K inhibitors LY294002 and Wortmannin blocked the TSA induced pro-inflammatory response but surprisingly did not affect the okadaic acid induced response. Furthermore, LY294002 did not inhibit DNA-binding activity of NF-kappaB but still inhibited NF-kappaB-Luc reporter gene transactivation. These results indicate that PI 3-kinase regulates the transactivation efficiency of NF-kappaB-dependent transcription rather than transduction of NF-kappaB signaling.
Perfusion weighted MRI has proven very useful for deriving hemodynamic parameters such as CBF, CBV and MTT. These quantities are important diagnostically, e.g. in acute stroke, where they are used to delineate ischemic regions. Yet the standard method for estimating CBF based on singular value decomposition (SVD) has been demonstrated to underestimate (especially high) flow components and to be sensitive to delays in the arterial input function (AIF). Furthermore, the estimated residue functions often oscillate. This compromises their physiological interpretation/basis and makes estimation of related measures such as flow heterogeneity difficult. In this study, we estimate perfusion parameters based on a vascular model (VM) which represents heterogeneous capillary flow and explicitly leads to monotonically decreasing residue functions. We use a fully Bayesian approach to obtain posterior probability distributions for all parameters. In simulation studies, we show that the VM method has less bias in CBF estimates than the SVD based method for realistic SNRs. This also applies to cases where the AIF is delayed. We employ our method to estimate perfusion maps using data from (i) a healthy volunteer and (ii) from a stroke patient.
The time it takes for a human participant to decide whether a given stimulus is an element of a remembered set increases approximately linearly with the number of elements in the set. Here we tested for and detected a spatial pattern of brain activity whose magnitude of expression during this memory search process correlates with set size. We then tested the idea that memory search simply involves a re-activation of neurons involved in remembering the set by statistically comparing the patterns of brain activity corresponding to memory search and set size dependent working memory maintenance. These patterns were significantly different, suggesting that memory search and working memory maintenance are mediated by distinct neural mechanisms.
Most functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies record the blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) signal using fast gradient-echo echo-planar imaging (GE EPI). However, GE EPI can suffer from substantial signal dropout caused by inhomogeneities in the static magnetic field. These field inhomogeneities occur near air/tissue interfaces, because they are generated by variations in magnetic susceptibilities. Thus, fMRI studies are often limited by a reduced BOLD sensitivity (BS) in inferior brain regions. Recently, a method has been developed which allows for optimizing the BS in dropout regions by specifically adjusting the slice tilt, the direction of the phase-encoding (PE), and the z-shim moment. However, optimal imaging parameters were only reported for the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) and inferior temporal lobes. The present study determines the optimal slice tilt, PE direction, and z-shim moment at 3 T and 1.5 T, otherwise using standard fMRI acquisition parameters. Results are reported for all brain regions, yielding a whole-brain atlas of optimal parameters. At both field strengths, optimal parameters increase the BS by more than 60% in many voxels in the OFC and by at least 30% in the other dropout regions. BS gains are shown to be more widespread at 3 T, suggesting an increased benefit from the dropout compensation at higher fields. Even the mean BS of a large brain region, e.g., encompassing the medial OFC, can be increased by more than 15%. The maps of optimal parameters allow for assessing the feasibility and improving fMRI of brain regions affected by susceptibility-induced BS losses.
Evolutionary survival and procreation are augmented if an individual organism quickly detects environmental threats and rapidly initiates defensive behavioral reactions. Thus, facial emotions signaling a potential threat, e.g., fear or anger, should be perceived rapidly and automatically, possibly through a subcortical processing route which includes the amygdala. Using event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we investigated the time course of the response in the amygdala to neutral and fearful faces, which appear from dynamically decreasing random visual noise. We aimed to detect differences of the amygdala response between fearful and neutral faces by estimating the latency of the blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) response. We found that bilateral amygdala-hippocampal junction activation occurred earlier for fearful than for neutral faces. Our findings support the theory of a dual route architecture in which the subcortical thalamic-hippocampal-amygdala route serves fast preconscious threat perception.
Many breakthrough scientific discoveries have been made using opioid imaging, particularly in the fields of pain, addiction and epilepsy research. Recent developments include the application of ever higher resolution whole-brain positron emission tomography (PET) scanners, the availability of several radioligands, the combination of PET with advanced structural imaging, advances in modeling macroparameters of PET ligand binding, and large-scale statistical analysis of imaging datasets. Suitable single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) tracers are lacking, but with the increase in the number of available PET (or PET/CT) cameras and cyclotrons thanks to the clinical successes of PET in oncology, PET may become widespread enough to overcome this limitation. In the coming decade, we hope to see a more widespread application of the techniques developed in healthy volunteers to patients and more clinical impact of opioid imaging.
All neuromonitoring techniques, although imperfect, provide useful information for monitoring cardiothoracic and carotid vascular operations. They may be viewed as providing complementary information, which may help surgical technique and, as a result, possibly improve clinical outcomes. As of this writing, the efficacy of TCD and NIRS monitoring during cardiothoracic and vascular surgery cannot be considered established. Well designed, prospective, adequately powered, double-blind, and randomized outcome studies are needed to determine the optimal neurologic monitoring modality (or modalities), in specific surgical settings.
The diagnosis of isolated heterozygotes for recessive LGMD is quite difficult because no specific biochemical or protein assays are available, and the molecular analysis is not feasible due to the wide genetic heterogeneity. We investigated a series of definite heterozygotes for different forms of LGMD to determine whether the carrier status will result in a detectable protein defect in muscle biopsy. Definite heterozygotes from 4 families (3 LGMD2B and 1 LGMD2E) underwent quantitative immunoblot analysis of mutant protein in their muscle. While the quantity of beta-sarcoglycan was nearly normal in the LGMD2E carrier, the levels of dysferlin protein were reduced to 50% of controls in the carriers of LGMD2B. We have demonstrated the value of protein analysis in the identification of both familial and isolated LGMD2B heterozygotes, and suggested the use of dysferlin protein testing to select muscle biopsies from suspected carriers for a subsequent mutation analysis. Muscle protein analysis would be used to screen asymptomatic patients who underwent muscle biopsy because of unexplained hyperCKemia.
The in vitro and in vivo properties of L-655,708, a compound with higher affinity for GABA(A) receptors containing an alpha5 compared to an alpha1, alpha2 or alpha3 subunit have been examined further. This compound has weak partial inverse agonist efficacy at each of the four subtypes but, and consistent with the binding data, has higher functional affinity for the alpha5 subtype. In a mouse hippocampal slice model, L-655,708 was able to enhance the long-term potentiation produced by a theta burst stimulation, consistent with a potential role for the alpha5 subtype in processes involving synaptic plasticity, such as learning and memory. When administered in a formulation specifically designed to achieve relatively constant plasma drug concentrations, and therefore maintain selective occupancy of alpha5- compared to alpha1-, alpha2- and alpha3-containing receptors (75+/-4% versus 22+/-10%, respectively), L-655,708 did not alter the dose of pentylenetetrazole required to induce seizures, indicating that the inverse agonist effects of L-655,708 at the alpha5 subtype are not associated with a proconvulsant liability. In the Morris water maze, L-655,708 enhanced performance not only during acquisition but also in a probe trial, demonstrating that this compound has cognition enhancing effects. These data further support the potential of alpha5-containing GABA(A) receptors as a target for novel cognition enhancing drugs.
A Ca(2+)-activated, non-selective cation current (I(CAN)) has been suggested to contribute to plateau potentials in lamprey reticulospinal neurons, providing the drive for locomotor initiation. Flufenamic acid (FFA) is commonly used as a blocker of I(CAN). To explore the effects of FFA on spinal locomotor pattern generation, we induced fictive locomotion in the isolated lamprey spinal cord. Bath-applied FFA (100-200microM) caused a marked reduction of amplitude and regularity of the locomotor burst activity. We next analyzed the NMDA-induced membrane potential oscillations in single spinal neurons. The duration of depolarizing plateaus was markedly reduced when applying FFA, suggesting an involvement of I(CAN). However, in experiments with intracellular injection of the Ca(2+) chelator BAPTA, and in the presence of the K(Ca)-channel blocker apamin, no support was found for an involvement of I(CAN). We therefore explored alternative explanations of the effects of FFA. FFA reduced the size of the slow, Ca(2+)-dependent afterhyperpolarization, suggesting an influence on calcium channels. FFA also reduced the NMDA component of reticulospinal EPSPs as well as NMDA-induced depolarizing responses, demonstrating an influence on NMDA receptors. These non-selective effects of FFA can account for its influence on fictive locomotion and on membrane potential oscillations and thus, a specific involvement of the I(CAN) current in the lamprey spinal cord is not supported.
To investigate the role of interhemispheric attentional processes, 25 alcoholic and 28 control subjects were tested with a Stroop match-to-sample task and callosal areas were measured with magnetic resonance imaging. Stroop color-word stimuli were presented to the left or right visual field (VF) and were preceded by a color cue that did or did not match the word's color. For matching colors, both groups showed a right VF advantage; for nonmatching colors, controls showed a left VF advantage, whereas alcoholic subjects showed no VF advantage. For nonmatch trials, VF advantage correlated with callosal splenium area in controls but not alcoholic subjects, supporting the position that information presented to the nonpreferred hemisphere is transmitted via the splenium to the hemisphere specialized for efficient processing. The authors speculate that alcoholism-associated callosal thinning disrupts this processing route.
The motor-activating effects of amphetamine and other psychostimulants such as cocaine depend on an increase in dopamine (DA) transmission in the striatum, a key component of the basal ganglia and the forebrain motive circuit. This review focuses on research aimed at using electrophysiological techniques--including extracellular unit recording and iontophoresis--in alert, fully functioning animals to understand how these drugs alter striatal neuronal processing under behaviorally relevant conditions. The data indicate that DA works in conjunction with glutamate (GLU), an excitatory amino acid, to enhance the signal-to-noise ratio of afferent information. This DA-GLU interaction appears to play a critical role in the amphetamine-induced activation of striatal neurons. The pattern of striatal activation, moreover, changes as the behavioral response changes from unfocused locomotion to highly focused, stereotyped behavior, but interestingly, the striatal response pattern is not reflected in substantia nigra reticulata, a primary target of striatal efferents. Although cocaine also activates striatal neurons during behavior, the underlying mechanisms appear to be complicated by factors unique to this drug and deserve further evaluation. Collectively, these findings provide unique insight into the neuronal processes by which the striatum participates in psychostimulant-induced motor behavior.
We have studied the effect of low doses of two widely used antidepressants, fluoxetine (Flx) and reboxetine (Rbx), on excitatory synapses of rat brain cortex and hippocampus. After 15 days of Flx treatment (0.67 mg/kg/day), its plasma level was 20.7+/-5.6 ng/ml. Analysis of postsynaptic densities (PSDs) by immunoblotting revealed no changes in the glutamate receptor subunits GluR1, NR1, NR2A/B, mGluR1alpha nor in the neurotrophin receptor p75(NTR). However, the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) receptor TrkB decreased by 42.8+/-6%, and remained decreased after 6 weeks of treatment. The BDNF and TrkB content in homogenates of cortex and hippocampus began to rise at 9 and 15 days, respectively, and remained high for up to 6 weeks. Similar results were obtained following chronic Rbx administration at 0.128 mg/kg/day. We propose that BDNF, whose synthesis is increased by antidepressants, and which is in part released at synaptic sites, binds to TrkB in PSDs, leading to the internalization of the BDNF-TrkB complex and, thus, to a decrease of TrkB in the PSDs. This was paralleled by greater levels of phosphorylated (ie activated) TrkB in the light membrane fraction, that contains signaling endosomes. The retrograde transport of endocyted BDNF/TrkB complexes from spines to cell bodies, where it activates the synthesis of more BDNF, is a protracted process, potentially requiring several cycles of TrkB/BDNF complex endocytosis and transport. This positive feedback mechanism may help explain the time-lag between drug administration and its therapeutic effect, that is, the antidepressant drug paradox.
There is growing evidence implicating the glutamate system in the pathophysiology and treatment of mood and anxiety disorders. Glutamatergic neurotransmission is mediated by several receptor subfamilies including multiple NMDA receptor subunits (NR2A-D). However, little is currently understood about the specific roles of NMDA subunits in the mediation of emotional behavior due to a lack of subunit-specific ligands. In the present study, we employed a mouse gene-targeting approach to examine the role of the NR2A subunit in the mediation of anxiety- and depressive-related behaviors. Results showed that NR2A knockout (KO) mice exhibit decreased anxiety-like behavior relative to wild-type littermates (WT) across multiple tests (elevated plus maze, light-dark exploration test, novel open field). NR2A KO mice showed antidepressant-like profiles in the forced swim test and tail suspension test, as compared to WT controls. Locomotor activity in the nonaversive environments of the home cage or a familiar open field were normal in the NR2A KO mice, as were gross neurological and sensory functions, including prepulse inhibition of startle. Taken together, these data demonstrate a selective and robust reduction in anxiety- and depression-related behavior in NMDA receptor NR2A subunit KO mice. Present results support a role for the NR2A subunit in the modulation of emotional behaviors in rodents and provide insight into the role of glutamate in the pathophysiology and treatment of mood and anxiety disorders.
Employing retrograde transsynaptic transport of rabies virus, we investigated the organization of basal ganglia inputs to hindlimb, proximal and distal forelimb, and orofacial representations of the macaque primary motor cortex (MI). Four days after rabies injections into these MI regions, neuronal labeling occurred in the striatum and the subthalamic nucleus (STN) through the cortico-basal ganglia loop circuits. In the striatum, two distinct sets of the labeling were observed: one in the dorsal putamen, and the other in the ventral striatum (ventromedial putamen and nucleus accumbens). The dorsal striatal labeling was somatotopically arranged and its distribution pattern was in good accordance with that of the corticostriatal inputs, such that the hindlimb, orofacial, or forelimb area was located in the dorsal, ventral, or intermediate zone of the putamen, respectively. The distribution pattern of the ventral striatal labeling was essentially the same in all cases. In the STN, the somatotopic arrangement of labeled neurons was in register with that of corticosubthalamic inputs. The present results suggest that the cortico-basal ganglia motor circuits involving the dorsal putamen and the STN may constitute separate closed loops based on the somatotopy, while the ventral striatum provides common multisynaptic projections to all body-part representations in the MI.
The synaptic organization between and among the insular cortex (IC) axons, central amygdaloid nucleus (ACe) axons and posterolateral hypothalamus (PLH) neurons was investigated in the rat using double anterograde tracing and anterograde tracing combined with postembedding immunogold analysis. After ipsilateral injections of biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) into the IC and Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin (PHA-L) into the ACe, the conspicuous overlapping distribution of BDA-labeled axon terminals and PHA-L-labeled axon terminals was found in the PLH region just medial to the subthalamic nucleus ipsilateral to the injection sites. At the electron microscopic level, approximately two-thirds of the IC terminals made synapses with small-sized dendrites and the rest did with dendritic spines of the PLH neurons, whereas about 79%, 16% and 5% of the ACe terminals established synapses with small- to medium-sized dendrites, somata, and dendritic spines, respectively, of the PLH neurons. In addition, the IC axon terminals contained densely packed round clear vesicles and their synapses were of asymmetrical type. On the other hand, most of the ACe terminals contained not only pleomorphic clear vesicles but also dense-cored vesicles and their synapses were of symmetrical type although some ACe terminals contained densely packed round clear vesicles and formed asymmetrical synapses. Most of the postsynaptic elements received synaptic inputs from the IC or ACe terminals, and some of single postsynaptic elements received convergent synaptic inputs from both sets of terminals. Furthermore, almost all the ACe terminals were revealed to be immunoreactive for gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), by using the anterograde BDA tracing technique combined with immunohistochemistry for GABA. The present data suggest that single PLH neurons are under the excitatory influence of the IC and/or inhibitory influence of the ACe in the circuitry involved in the regulation of cardiovascular functions.
The structural organization of the central nervous system is an infrastructure of the modern neuroscience. Especially, anatomical research at the cellular level can serve as a fundamental resource to understand various novel findings from the molecular level to the system level. Of the decade, the importance of rigorous quantitative neuroanatomy is gradually realized, but earlier anatomical reports are usually presented in qualitative terms or quantified with biased methods. This article quantitatively describes the spatial distributions of chemically defined GABAergic neurons in the mouse hippocampus by using unbiased stereological techniques. We focus on the expression of nine major neurochemical markers: glutamic acid decarboxylase 67, three calcium binding proteins (parvalbumin, calretinin, calbindin D28K), four neuropeptides (somatostatin, neuropeptide Y, cholecystokinin, vasoactive intestinal protein) and neuronal nitric oxide synthase. Here we deal with their laminar distributions, numerical densities and the relative ratio to the total GABAergic neurons, with special reference to their differentiation along the dorsoventral axis of the mouse hippocampus. Furthermore, we estimate the absolute numbers of GABAergic neurons contained in a 300-mum-thick hypothetical slice. The present data outline the quantitative aspects of the cellular architecture of hippocampal GABAergic system and also give complementary information to the recent multidisciplinary analyses at the single cell level.
Increasing systolic and pulse pressure with bradycardia and respiratory irregularity are signs of increased intracranial pressure, leading to cerebral herniation and fatal brainstem compression. This phenomenon, the vasopressor response, is generally known as the Cushing reflex based on Harvey Cushing's experimental work in Europe in 1901 and 1902. However, similar experiments had been carried out decades earlier by others, notably Paul Cramer, Ernst von Bergmann, Ernst von Leyden, Georg Althann, Friedrich Jolly, Friedrich Pagenstecher, Henri Duret, Bernard Naunyn, and Julius Schreiber. Cushing initially failed to give credit to the work of these predecessors. Nonetheless, he studied the brain's reaction to compression more carefully than previous researchers and offered an improved explanation of the pathophysiology of the phenomenon named after him.



Based on the hypothesis of target-derived trophic factor, we have purified a novel peptide from young rat hippocampus, named Hippocampal Cholinergic Neurostimulating Peptide: HCNP, which induces the synthesis of acetylcholine in the medial septal nucleus. This peptide is aligned with the N terminal of protein composed 186 amino acids (HCNP precursor protein), and released from neurons in hippocampus by the NMDA receptor stimulation. Moreover, HCNP precursor can be involved in neural activity in hippocampus via the inhibition of phosphorylation of Erk. HCNP and its precursor can be a candidate for the key molecules elucidating the underlying association among Abeta, phosphorylated tau, degeneration of dendritic spine and decrease of acetylcholine in Alzheimer brain.
Neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) is a life-threatening complication of anti-psychotic treatment and can occur any time during the course of treatment. Since NMS can occur in any subject treated with anti-psychotic drugs, causing senously adverse side effects, prevention of NMS is one of the most important issues in clinical psychiatry. Although therapeutic guidelines for NMS have been proposed and gradually put in place, the pathogenesis has not been fully elucidated. Prevention of NMS consists of three approaches: removal of pathogenetic factors, understanding of initial symptoms and consideration of the administration of preventive drugs. Risk factors for NMS are inherited factors, individual factors and environmental factors. The overlapping of these factors might lead to fulminant NMS. These risk factors such as environmental factors are enumerated in DSM-IV. We meta-analyzed the case-control studies of the risk factors for NMS, because the evaluation of each risk factor has not been studied yet. The results were as follows: mental retardation, psychiatric manifestations such as agitation and excitement as individual factors. High dosage administration, rapid increase and parenteral administration of antipsychotic drugs are the drug factors. It is hopeful to give preventive care, such as precautionary measurement of autonomic dysfunction, and treatment to these groups at high risk for NMS.

Excessive activation via the metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 5 (mGluR(5)) has been implicated in depression, neuropathic pain and other psychiatric, neurological and neurodegenerative diseases. A mGluR(5) radioligand for in vivo quantification by positron emission tomography (PET) would facilitate studies of the role of this receptor in disease and treatment. 3-Methoxy-5-pyridin-2-ylethynylpyridine (MPEPy), a selective and high-affinity antagonist at the mGluR(5) receptor was selected as a candidate ligand; a recent publication by Yu et al. [Nucl Med Biol 32 (2005) 631-640] presented initial micro-PET results for [(11)C]MPEPy with enthusiasm. Building on their efforts, we report as unique contributions (1) an improved chemical synthesis method, (2) the first data using human tissue, (3) phosphor images for rat brain preparations, (4) a novel comparison of anesthetic agents and (5) in vivo data in baboon. In vitro phosphor imaging studies of this ligand using human and rat brain tissue demonstrated high specific binding in the hippocampus, striatum and cortex with minimal specific binding in the cerebellum. In contrast, in vivo micro-PET studies in rats using urethane anesthesia, PET studies in baboons using isoflurane anesthesia and ex vivo micro-PET studies in unanesthetized rats each showed little specific binding in the brain. Despite the promising in vitro results, the low signal-to-noise ratio found in vivo does not justify the use of [(11)C]MPEPy as a PET radiotracer in humans.
Gabapentin and pregabalin have been demonstrated, both in animal pain models and clinically, to be effective analgesics particularly for the treatment of neuropathic pain. The precise mechanism of action for these two drugs is unknown, but they are generally believed to function via initially binding to the alpha2delta subunit of voltage-gated Ca2+ channels. In this study, we used a pharmacological approach to test the hypothesis whether high affinity interactions with the alpha2delta subunit alone could lead to attenuation of neuropathic pain in rats. The anti-allodynic effects of gabapentin and pregabalin, along with three other compounds--(L)-phenylglycine, m-chlorophenylglycine and 3-exo-aminobicyclo[2.2.1]heptane-2-exo-carboxylic acid (ABHCA)--discovered to be potent alpha2delta ligands, were tested in the rat spinal nerve ligation model of neuropathic pain. Gabapentin (Ki = 120 nM), pregabalin (180 nM) and (L)-phenylglycine (180 nM) were shown to be anti-allodynic, with respective ED50 values of 230, 90 and 80 micromol/kg (p.o.). (L)-Phenylglycine was as potent as pregabalin and equi-efficacious in reversing mechanical allodynia. In contrast, two ligands with comparable or superior alpha2delta binding affinities, m-chlorophenylglycine (Ki = 54 nM) and ABHCA (150 nM), exhibited no anti-allodynic effects at doses of 30-300 micromol/kg (p.o.), although these compounds achieved substantial brain levels. The data demonstrate that, at least in the rat spinal nerve ligation model of neuropathic pain, (L)-phenylglycine has an anti-allodynic effect, but two equally potent alpha2delta subunit ligands do not. These results suggest that additional mechanisms, besides alpha2delta interactions, may contribute to the effects of compounds like gabapentin, pregabalin and (L)-phenylglycine in neuropathic pain.

Indomethacin is used to pharmacologically occlude patent ductus arteriosus in preterm infants. It induces renal untoward effects and furosemide is administered simultaneously to counteract them. The effect of furosemide is blunted by indomethacin. We analyzed comparatively the interactions of furosemide and indomethacin at the organic anion transport system in adult and newborn individuals. Adult and 5-day-old Wistar rats were allocated into three groups: (1) indomethacin (10 mg/kg, ip); (2) furosemide (2 mg/kg, ip); and (3) indomethacin/furosemide, at the same doses. Urinary flow, glomerular filtration rate (GFR), sodium and potassium fractional excretions, and free-water and osmolal clearances were estimated. Para-aminohippuric acid (PAH) uptake was measured in renal cortical slices to study the organic anion's secretory pathway. In adult and newborn rats, furosemide-induced increments in urinary fluxes and excretions of sodium and potassium were blunted by indomethacin administered simultaneously. PAH uptake was decreased to a further extent by indomethacin than by furosemide, suggesting that inhibition of the diuretic effect might be related to competition in the secretion of furosemide. Inhibitory interaction between indomethacin and furosemide was achieved at approximately 10-fold lower concentrations in the newborn than in the adult rats, suggesting that tubular secretion in the neonate is more sensitive to the action of these drugs than in the adult individual.

The Ciona intestinalis genome harbors three insulin-like genes: INS-L1, -L2 and -L3. Conserved synteny between the Ciona-human genomes predicts that Ciona INS-Ls are orthologous to the vertebrate insulin-relaxin family, but this relation cannot be inferred from molecular phylogeny. A conserved protein core with six cysteines; typical arrangement of B-, C- and A-protein domains; pro-protein maturation mode; and putative insulin receptor-binding sites were identified in Ciona INS-L proteins. ESTs used to assemble exonic sequences of INS-Ls combined with qRT-PCR analysis provided evidence that the predicted genes are expressed in the developing and adult Ciona. Our results support that Ciona INS-L1 is orthologous to the vertebrate insulin-like/relaxin genes, INS-L2 to insulin genes and INS-L3 to IGF genes. Our analysis also implies that the insulin-like/relaxin ancestor switched receptor type from tyrosine kinase- to GPCR-type, whereas insulin-IGF subfamily retained the tyrosine kinase-type of receptor. We propose that this receptor-switch occurred after the time when urochordates branched from the common chordate lineage, but before the two genome-duplications at the root of the vertebrates.

Sensory organs provide key and, in many cases, species-specific information that allows animals to effectively forage, find mates, and avoid hazards. The primary sensors for the vertebrate senses of vision, taste, and smell are G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) expressed by sensory receptor cells that initiate intracellular signal transduction cascades in response to activation by appropriate stimuli. The identification of sensory GPCRs and their related downstream transduction components from a variety of species has provided an essential tool for understanding the molecular evolution of sensory systems. Expansion of the number of genes encoding sensory GPCRs has, in some cases, expanded the repertoire of signals that animals detect, allowing them to occupy new niches, while, in other cases, evolution has favored a reduction in the repertoire of receptors and their cognate signal transduction components when these signals no longer provide a selective advantage. This review will focus on recent studies that have identified molecular changes in vision, smell, taste, and pheromone detection during primate evolution.
Neurobiological mechanisms underlying rewarding and aversive effects of drugs are often studied by examining effects of various pretreatments on acquisition of conditioned place preference (CPP) or conditioned place aversion (CPA). However, few studies have looked at effects of pretreatment with the same drug used during conditioning. Such studies might offer insight into agonist actions on conditioning while also mimicking real world contingencies experienced by drug users. Previous work from our laboratory, which showed that same drug pre-exposure interfered with acquisition of ethanol CPA but not CPP, was limited by the use of only one pre-treatment time interval (65 min). Thus, the present studies were designed to study other intervals (-5, -15, -30). Pretreatment of DBA/2J mice with ethanol (2 g/kg) reduced the activity response normally evoked by the conditioning dose (2 g/kg) at all pretreatment times, but acquisition of CPP was disrupted only by pretreatment at -5 min. The overall pattern of findings suggests that ethanol's early pharmacological effects interfered with learning the association between the conditioned stimulus (CS) and ethanol 5 min later. Thus, one would expect ethanol agonists, when administered in close proximity to CS-ethanol pairings, to interfere with control of ethanol seeking by that CS.
A serial-probe recognition task was used to assess the effects of midazolam on visual attention and short-term memory in three rhesus monkeys. On each trial, six unique alphanumeric sample stimuli (list items) were presented sequentially followed by a choice period. Choosing the 'probe' stimulus was correct if the probe matched one of the list items; otherwise, choosing the 'default' stimulus (a white square) was correct. Behavior was examined under a range of doses of midazolam (0.065, 0.13, 0.26, and 0.52 mg/kg IM). Midazolam did not significantly reduce choice accuracy or change the shape of the serial position function and did not significantly reduce choice responding. However, choice reaction time was significantly increased by the two highest doses of midazolam. Responding directed at the sample stimuli was reduced at the two highest doses of midazolam. Furthermore, 0.52 mg/kg midazolam significantly increased sample-stimulus reaction time at all six serial positions. Overall, these data suggest that the two highest doses of midazolam tested increase reaction time, but do not directly impair short-term visual recognition memory. This is noteworthy because such doses appear capable of protecting against nerve agent-induced seizures.
The anxiolytic effects of benzodiazepines appear to involve opioid processes in the amygdala. In previous experiments, overexpression of enkephalin in the amygdala enhanced the anxiolytic actions of the benzodiazepine agonist diazepam in the elevated plus maze. The effects of systemically administered diazepam are also blocked by injections of naltrexone into the central nucleus of the amygdala. The current studies investigated the role of delta opioid receptors in the anxiety-related effects of diazepam. Three days following bilateral stereotaxic injections of viral vectors containing cDNA encoding proenkephalin or beta-galactosidase (control vector), the delta opioid receptor antagonist naltrindole (10 mg/kg, s.c.) attenuated the enhanced anxiolytic effects of 1-2 mg/kg diazepam in rats overexpressing preproenkephalin in the amygdala. Despite this effect, naltrindole failed to attenuate the anxiolytic action of higher diazepam doses (3 mg/kg) in animals with normal amygdalar enkephalin expression. Similarly, the mu opioid receptor antagonist, beta-funaltrexamine (20 mg/kg, s.c.), had no effect on the anxiolytic effect of diazepam alone. These data support a role for delta opioid receptors in the opioid-enhanced anxiolytic effects of diazepam.
Antipsychotic drugs may produce adverse effects during development in humans and rodents. However, the extent of these effects has not been systematically characterized nor have molecular mechanisms been identified. Consequently, we sought to evaluate the effects of an extensive panel of antipsychotic drugs in a model organism, Caenorhabditis elegans, whose development is well characterized and which offers the possibility of identifying novel molecular targets. For these studies, animals were grown from hatching in the presence of vehicle (control) or antipsychotic drugs over a range of concentrations (20-160microM) and growth was analyzed by measuring head-to-tail length at various intervals. First-generation antipsychotics (e.g., fluphenazine) generally slowed growth and maturation more than second-generation drugs such as quetiapine and olanzapine. This is consistent with in vitro effects on human neuronal cell lines. Clozapine, a second-generation drug, produced similar growth deficits as haloperidol. Converging lines of evidence, including the failure to rescue growth with high concentrations of agonists, suggested that the drug-induced delay in development was not mediated by the major neurotransmitter receptors recognized by the antipsychotic drugs. Moreover, in serotonin-deficient tph-1 mutants, the drugs dramatically slowed development and led to larval arrest (including dauer formation) and neuronal abnormalities. Evaluation of alternative targets of the antipsychotics revealed a potential role for calmodulin and underscored the significance of Ca(2+)-calmodulin signaling in development. These findings suggest that antipsychotic drugs may interfere with normal developmental processes and provide a tool for investigating the key signaling pathways involved.
Cyclooxygenase (COX) enzymes, or prostaglandin-endoperoxide synthases (PTGS), are heme-containing bis-oxygenases that catalyze the first committed reaction in metabolism of arachidonic acid (AA) to the potent lipid mediators, prostanoids and thromboxanes. Two isozymes of COX enzymes (COX-1 and COX-2) have been identified to date. This review will focus specifically on the neurobiological and neuropathological consequences of AA metabolism via the COX-2 pathway and discuss the potential therapeutic benefit of COX-2 inhibition in the setting of neurological disease. However, given the controversy surrounding the use of COX-2 selective inhibitors with respect to cardiovascular health, it will be important to move beyond COX to identify which down-stream effectors are responsible for the deleterious and/or potentially protective effects of COX-2 activation in the setting of neurological disease. Important advances toward this goal are highlighted herein. Identification of unique effectors in AA metabolism could direct the development of new therapeutics holding significant promise for the prevention and treatment of neurological disorders.
Mice expressing the firefly luciferase gene luc under the control of various gene promoters are used to image long-term changes in tumor growth, infection, development, and circadian rhythms. This novel approach enables ongoing regulation of gene expression to be visualized through repeated imaging of luciferase bioluminescence. Typically, luciferin, the luciferase substrate, is injected into mice before they are anaesthetized for imaging. To avoid the effects of handling and stress from injection on expression of the transgene, oral luciferin delivery methods were tested as an alternative to current methods. For unobscured imaging, a transgenic mouse line containing luc controlled by the enhancer and promoter for the major immediate-early gene of human cytomegalovirus (CMV) was crossed with a hairless albino mouse stock (HRS/J), resulting in the Hr-CMV line. Mice given food and water ad libitum readily drank 1-5 mM luciferin in water or apple juice and could be imaged repeatedly on subsequent days without any apparent adverse effects. Oral and injected luciferin produced similar patterns of luminescence in the body areas examined: abdomen, tail vertebrae, gonads, hind leg, foreleg and others, although the tail showed a slightly brighter relative luminescence after oral luciferin. These results show that luciferin is not appreciably degraded in the digestive tract and can be easily administered orally to avoid injection and any concomitant effects on behavior that could alter gene expression.
We investigate the effects of a time-delayed all-to-all coupling scheme in a large population of oscillators with natural frequencies following a bimodal distribution. The regions of parameter space corresponding to synchronized and incoherent solutions are obtained both numerically and analytically for particular frequency distributions. In particular, we find that bimodality introduces a new time scale that results in a quasiperiodic disposition of the regions of incoherence.
Methanol and aqueous extracts of Styrax japonica used traditionally for the treatments of skin elastic materials were screened in vitro for the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-1 inhibitor actions. The methylene chloride soluble fraction of methanol extract from the stems of S. japonica showed significant MMP-1 inhibition in primary old aged human skin fibroblasts caused by ultraviolet (UV) irradiation. Main triterpenoids were isolated by repeated column chromatography. Among them, the triterpenoid erythrodiol-3-acetate reduced the expression of MMP-1 and induced the expression of type-1 procollagen at the protein levels in a dose-dependent manner caused by UV irradiated cultured old aged human skin fibroblasts. Taken together, our results suggest that erythrodiol-3-acetate plays an important role in the skin aging process caused by UV irradiation.
This study aimed to investigate the potential for flavonoid action at A(1) adenosine receptors in vitro. In a radioligand binding assay for A(1) adenosine receptor occupancy in particulate preparations from guinea-pig cerebral cortex, flavonoids competed in concentration-dependent manners with Hill slopes typically not different from unity. Of the flavonoids tested, quercetin showed highest affinity (pKi value of 5.33). At a concentration of 28 mm, quercetin evoked a rightward shift in the N(6)-cyclopentyladenosine-induced inhibition of electrically evoked contractions of the guinea-pig isolated ileum, allowing the calculation of a pK(i) value of 4.71. These data suggest, therefore, that flavonoids represent an additional dietary source of A(1) adenosine receptor antagonists (beyond the methylxanthines, caffeine and theophylline).
The ability to identify and react to novelty within the environment is fundamental to survival. Computational models emphasize the potential role of the hippocampus in novelty detection, its unique anatomical circuitry making it ideally suited to act as a comparator between past and present experience. The hippocampus, therefore, is viewed to detect associative mismatches between what is expected based on retrieval of past experience and current sensory input. However, direct evidence that the human hippocampus performs such operations is lacking. We explored brain responses to novel sequences of objects using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), while subjects performed an incidental target detection task. Our results demonstrate that hippocampal activation was maximal when prior predictions concerning which object would appear next in a sequence were violated by sensory reality. In so doing, we establish the biological reality of associative match-mismatch computations within the human hippocampus, a process widely held to play a cardinal role in novelty detection. Our results also suggest that the hippocampus may generate predictions about how future events will unfold, and critically detect when these expectancies are violated, even when task demands do not require it. The present study also offers broader insights into the nature of essential computations carried out by the hippocampus, which may also underpin its unique contribution to episodic memory.


At early stages of differentiation neurons already contain many of the components necessary for synaptic transmission. However, in order to establish fully functional synapses, both the pre- and postsynaptic partners must undergo a process of maturation. At the presynaptic level, synaptic vesicles (SVs) must acquire the highly specialized complement of proteins, which make them competent for efficient neurotransmitter release. Although several of these proteins have been characterized and linked to precise functions in the regulation of the SV life cycle, a systematic and unifying view of the mechanisms underlying selective protein sorting during SV biogenesis remains elusive. Since SV components do not share common sorting motifs, their targeting to SVs likely relies on a complex network of protein-protein and protein-lipid interactions, as well as on post-translational modifications. Pleiomorphic carriers containing SV proteins travel and recycle along the axon in developing neurons. Nevertheless, SV components appear to eventually undertake separate trafficking routes including recycling through the neuronal endomembrane system and the plasmalemma. Importantly, SV biogenesis does not appear to be limited to a precise stage during neuronal differentiation, but it rather continues throughout the entire neuronal lifespan and within synapses. At nerve terminals, remodeling of the SV membrane results from the use of alternative exocytotic pathways and possible passage through as yet poorly characterized vacuolar/endosomal compartments. As a result of both processes, SVs with heterogeneous molecular make-up, and hence displaying variable competence for exocytosis, may be generated and coexist within the same nerve terminal.
The use of proteomics to study changes in the expression of CNS proteins, which may underlie the regulation of physiological and/or behavioral responses, represents an emerging application of this technology. In the current study, the Palkovits' microdissection method was evaluated as a means of obtaining proteomic data from discrete brain nuclei. The pars lateralis of the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus (VMN) was chosen for the initial studies because of its established role in the expression of gonadal hormone dependent female sexual behavior. The VMN from ovariectomized rats was microdissected from 300 microm frozen brain sections using a 500 microm punch. Total proteins were separated using 2-DE. A group consensus of 432 protein spots, visualized by SYPRO Ruby stain, was obtained from gels from four independent VMN samples. A low mean CV and high gel-to-gel correlation coefficients indicate that reproducible 2-DE gels can be generated from microdissected tissue samples. Proteins from the mediobasal hypothalamus (MBH) were also separated on 2-DE gels. Evaluation of the 2-DE maps from the VMN and the MBH revealed different protein profiles, and indicates that microdissection improves the detection of low-abundance proteins, and reduces the relative occurrence of abundant proteins on 2-DE maps.

Compulsive sexual behavior, otherwise known as sexual addiction, is an emerging psychiatric disorder that has significant medical and psychiatric consequences. Until recently, very little empirical data existed to explain the biological, psychological, and social risk factors that contribute to this condition. In addition, clinical issues, such as the natural course and best practices on treating sexual addictions, have not been formalized. Despite this absence, the number of patients and communities requesting assistance with this problem remains significant. This article will review the clinical features of compulsive sexual behavior and will summarize the current evidence for psychological and pharmacological treatment.

Repeated administration of interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) or pegylated IFN-alpha to patients with chronic hepatitis C viral infection induces a flu-like syndrome as well as neuropsychiatric side effects, which are well recognized, but poorly understood. Although pegylation appears to have improved viral response rates in patients with hepatitis C, there are still neurotoxicities associated with pegylated IFN-alpha therapy, in particular, depression, which can compromise and sometime prevent successful completion of antiviral treatment. This study assessed the effects of two forms of pegylated IFN-alpha [peginterferon-alfa-2a (PEG-2a) and peginterferon-alfa-2b (PEG-2b)] in rats in order to develop an animal model of IFN-induced &quot;depression&quot; (often described as sickness behavior) that can be used to more comprehensively investigate the neurochemical mechanisms of IFN-induced depression. Sixty male and female Lewis rats were randomly assigned to one of six treatment groups: (1) saline (SAL)+SAL (2) SAL+PEG-2a; (3) SAL+PEG-2b; (4) selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI)+SAL, (5) SSRI+PEG-2a; (6) SSRI+PEG-2b. Rats were pretreated with intraperitoneal (i.p.) saline (0.9%) or 7.5mg/kg/day fluoxetine for 1 week, followed by 3 weeks of concurrent i.p. administration of 650 microg/wk of PEG-2a or PEG-2b. Using locomotor activity, the forced swim test, and weight gain as behavioral measures of sickness behavior, our data showed that Lewis rats did not develop an IFN-induced &quot;depressive syndrome.&quot; Western blot analyses of brain and liver tissue indicated that signal transducer and activator of transcripton (STAT1) was not phosphorylated following IFN-alpha administration, suggesting that the pegylated compounds may not have bound type I IFN receptors in the rat. Collectively, our data suggest that Lewis rats are likely not a useful model to study IFN-induced depression.
Because of the role of serotonin (5HT) in regulating food intake and mood, several studies have focused their attention on the assessment of serotonergic activity in eating disorders, and in particular in anorexia nervosa, but the results have been inconsistent. Citalopram, a highly selective 5HT reuptake inhibitor, has been recently reported as a neuroendocrine probe to assess the serotonergic function in physiological and pathological conditions. We evaluated the adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), cortisol, prolactin (PRL) and growth hormone (GH) secretion during placebo or citalopram IV infusion (20 mg over 120 min), in six women with anorexia nervosa restricter type, and in six healthy women, in order to test the hypothesis that this neurotransmitter system is abnormal in this group of patients. ACTH and PRL secretion was higher during citalopram infusion compared to placebo (p&lt;0.05) in both groups, while cortisol secretion was higher during citalopram infusion only in healthy controls (p&lt;0.05), but not in anorexic patients. GH levels were unaffected by citalopram in both groups. These results demonstrate that serotonergic activation by citalopram affects corticotroph and lactotroph but not somatotroph secretion in anorexic as well as in normal subjects. Our preliminary findings do not support the existence of remarkable alterations in the serotonergic control of anterior pituitary function in anorexia nervosa, while there seems to be an impairment of the adrenal function in this group of patients.






One finding in attention research is that visual and auditory attention mechanisms are linked together. Such a link would predict a central, amodal capacity limit in processing visual and auditory stimuli. Here we show that this is not the case. Letter streams were accompanied by asynchronously presented streams of auditory, visual, and audiovisual objects. Either the letter streams or the visual, auditory, or audiovisual parts of the object streams were attended. Attending to various aspects of the objects resulted in modulations of the letter-stream-elicited steady-state evoked potentials (SSVEPs). SSVEPs were larger when auditory objects were attended than when either visual objects alone or when auditory and visual object stimuli were attended together. SSVEP amplitudes were the same in the latter conditions, indicating that attentional capacity between modalities is larger than attentional capacity within one and the same modality.
Brain-resident macrophages (microglia) are key cellular elements in the preservation of tissue integrity. On the other hand, they can also contribute to the development of pathological events by causing an extensive and inappropriate inflammatory response. A growing number of reports indicate the involvement of nucleotides in the control of microglial functions. With this study on P2Y receptors in rat microglia, we want to contribute to the definition of their expression profile and to the characterisation of their signalling mechanisms leading to Ca movements. Endogenous nucleotides, when applied at a concentration of 100 muM, elicited robust Ca transients, thanks to a panel of metabotropic receptors comprising mainly P2Y, P2Y and P2Y subtypes. The involvement of P2Y receptors in Ca responses induced by adenine nucleotides was confirmed by the pharmacological and pertussis toxin sensitivity of the response induced by adenosine diphosphate (ADP). Beside the G protein involved, Gi and Gq respectively, adenine and uracil nucleotides differed also for induction by the latter of a capacitative Ca plateau. Moreover, when applied at low (sub-micromolar) concentrations with a long-lasting challenge, uracil nucleotides elicited oscillatory Ca changes with low frequency of occurrence (&lt;/=1 min(-1)), sometimes superimposed to an extracellular Ca-dependent sustained Ca rise. We conclude that different patterns of Ca transients are induced by low (i.e., oscillatory Ca activity) compared to high (i.e., fast release followed by sustained raise) concentrations of nucleotides, which can suggest different roles played by receptor stimulation depending not only on the type but also on the concentration of nucleotides.

Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is a small peptide important in cardiovascular physiology, feeding, anxiety, depression and epilepsy. In the hippocampus, NPY is mainly produced and released by GABAergic interneurons and inhibits glutamatergic neurotransmission in the excitatory tri-synaptic circuit. Under epileptic conditions, there is a robust overexpression of NPY and NPY receptors particularly in the granular and pyramidal cells, contributing to the tonic inhibition of glutamate release and consequently to control the spread of excitability into other brain structures. Recently, an important role was attributed to NPY in neuroprotection against excitotoxicity and in the modulation of neurogenesis. In the present review we discuss the potential relevance of NPY and NPY receptors in neuroprotection and neurogenesis, with implications for brain repair strategies. Recent patents describing new NPY receptor antagonists directed to treat obesity and cardiovascular disorders were published. However, the NPYergic system may also prove to be a good target for the treatment of pharmaco-resistant forms of temporal lobe epilepsy, by acting on hyperexcitability, neuronal death or brain repair. In order to achieve new NPY-based antiepileptic and brain repair strategies, selective NPY receptor agonists able to reach their targets in the epileptic brain must be developed in the near future.
The central nervous system (CNS) elicits limited capacity to recover from injury. Though considerable efforts and means have been deployed to find treatments for neurological diseases, disorders and injuries, there is still no cure for these ailments, and new alternatives for therapy must be explored. Because they generate the main phenotypes of the nervous system, neural stem cells (NSCs) hold the promise to cure a broad range of neurological diseases and injuries. With the confirmation that neurogenesis occurs in the adult brain and NSCs reside in the adult CNS, new treatments for neurological diseases and injuries are being considered. Particularly, the transplantation of adult-derived neural progenitor and stem cells to restore brain functions. In this manuscript, we will review the recent developments in adult neurogenesis and NSCs, and patent applications filed in relation to discoveries made in this new field of research.
Anxiety disorders are common and debilitating mental illnesses. Current pharmacological treatments are beset by problems of poor efficacy and side effect profiles. Increasing understanding of novel neurotransmitter systems and the interplay between these systems is broadening the scope of anxiolytic drug treatment. This article aims to describe the areas of current interest and possible future development of anxiolytic drugs by outlining recent patents in this field. A patent database was searched for 17 neurotransmitters and their synonyms as well as 23 compounds of recent known interest from May 2003 to May 2005. The internet resources Pubmed and Google Scholar were searched for peer reviewed literature using the same search parameters. Results were grouped into neurotransmitter systems to present an overview of recent developments in the neuropharmacology of anxiety disorders.
There are many papers devoted to placebo and placebo effects. The present article tries to provide a precise definition of these concepts and to take stock of our knowledge on this topic. Considering that most of the publications dealing with this phenomon are of poor scientific quality, some authors deny its existence. However recent findings in neuroscience show that it is a reality and explain its mechanisms.
X-linked recessive dystonia-parkinsonism (XDP; DYT3; Lubag) is an adult-onset disorder that manifests severe and progressive dystonia with a high frequency of generalization. In search for the anatomical basis for dystonia, we performed postmortem analyses of the functional anatomy of the basal ganglia based on the striatal compartments (i.e., the striosomes and matrix compartment) in XDP. Our study showed that in the XDP neostriatum, the matrix compartment is relatively spared in a mosaic pattern, whereas the striosomes are severely depleted. In view of the three-pathway basal ganglia model, we postulate that the disproportionate involvement of neostriatal compartments and their efferent projections may underlie the manifestation of dystonia in patients with XDP. This study is the first to show specific basal ganglia pathology that could explain the genesis of dystonia in human heredodegenerative movement disorders, suggesting that dystonia may result from an imbalance in the activity between the striosomal and matrix pathways.
Stem cell-based cell therapy is one of attractive therapeutic approaches to muscular dystrophy. In transplantation into dystrophic skeletal muscle, muscle satellite cells and musclE side population (SP) cells are good candidates as sources of stem cells. We purified mouse satellite cells from adult C57B16 mice by FACS using a monoclonal antibody, SM/C-2.6, which can specifically recognize quiescent satellite cells. DNA micro-array analysis on both quiescent and activated satellite cells allowed us to distinguish novel quiescent satellite cell-specific genes. These genes may encode molecules that keep satellite cells in a dormant and undifferentiated state. We transplanted purified muscle satellite cells transduced with lentivirus vector, and found these cells were effectively incorporated into dystrophin-deficient skeletal muscle and expressed transduced dystrophin. We also identified a novel side population (SP) cells in uninjured and regenerating skeletal muscle. The majority of muscle-SP cells in uninjured stage showed endothelial cell-like properties. CD31 negative/CD45 negative SP cells were a minor population in normal conditions, but actively proliferate during muscle regeneration. Co-transplantation experiments showed that the SP cells synergistically promoted muscle regeneration with satellite cells. It is indispensable to study molecular basis of muscle stem cells and muscle regeneration to achieve effective stem cell-based cell therapy on muscular dystrophy.
Deposition of amyloid beta peptides (Abeta) as amyloid deposits characterizes the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Mutations in presenilin genes linked to familial AD (FAD) have been shown to increase production of Abeta42, an initially and predominantly depositing Abeta species in all types of AD. PS has been shown to serve as the catalytic center for the gamma-secretase cleavage of a subset of single-pass membrane proteins including beta-amyloid precursor protein and Notch. gamma-Secretase inhibitors, including gamma42-selective inhibitors like NSAIDs, are emerging therapeutic agents for AD. Also, an establishment of a method to monitor the progression of AD using imaging and biochemical surrogate markers would be vital to the evaluation of the effects of disease-modifying drugs for AD. In this regard, a large-scale observation study, like the AD neuroimaging initiative (ADNI), should be conducted in Japan.
Based on the minimum torque change model (MTCM), Wada and Kawato (1995) proposed a computational model of cursive handwriting which includes the following assumptions. The brain represents via-points that the hand passes through in a trajectory. Cursive handwriting consists of consecutive reaching movements. The via-points for handwriting are retrieved from memory during actual handwriting. Mathematically extracted via-points based on MTCM proved to be practically identical to motor primitives measured by EMG suggesting that drastic directional changes in muscle movement may be determining the location of via-points. Based on computational model, we examined the via-points in the cursive handwriting of a patient with parietal lobe involvement accompaning agraphia. While the control subject showed basically the same numbers and locations in via-points regardless of the velocity of hand movement, the patient's number and locations of via-points differed depending on the velocity of hand movement. The results suggest that the control subject retrieved necessary via-points based on the velocity of handwriting. The results also may reflect the neuropsychological nature of agraphic hand writing in a patient with parietal lobe damage.
I graduated from Kyoto University Faculty of Medicine in 1952. Following neurological residency training, I received neuropathological training at Montefiore Hospital under Dr. Zimmerman since 1956. During 1959-65, on the recommendation from Dr. Zimmerman and Dr. LT Kurlands, I was engaged in Guam project of NIH, as a visiting scientist, investigating ALS and parkinsonism-dementia complex, endemic fatal neurological disorders among the native Chamorro population. In 1965 I was appointed as head of the Division of Neuropathology at Montefiore Medical Center. I have been Professor of Pathology at Albert Einstein College of Medicine since 1971, Professor in the Dominick Purpura Department of Neuroscience at Albert Einstein College of Medicine since 1974, and The Harry M. Zimmerman Professor of Neuropathology, Montefiore Medical Center 1995. For over four decades, with the late Dr. Zimmerman, I have been host to 40 Japanese neurologists who have come to Montefiore for training in Neuropathology. Over 700 papers, 20 books have been published in our laboratory. Personal recollections of selected episodes devoted to study of neuropathology are described in this communication. These include fine structural investigation of brain edema demonstrating electron dense hematogenous edema fluid spreading expanding extracellular space in white matter, application of model of unrolled myelin sheath for elucidate structural alteration of myelin, the independent development of the pre- and postsynaptic terminals, study of SOD1 positive Lewy body-like inclusion in familial ALS and Hirano body.





Abstract The remarkable plasticity of marrow stromal cells (MSCs) after transplantation to models of neurological disease and injury has been described. In this report, we investigated the plasticity and long-term survival of MSCs transplanted into the normal brain. MSCs were isolated from green fluorescent protein (GFP) transgenic rats and double-labeled with 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU) and bis benzamide (BBZ) prior to transplantation into the adult hippocampus or striatum. Surgery elicited an immediate inflammatory response. MSC grafts were massively infiltrated by ED1-positive microglia/macrophages and surrounded by a marked astrogliosis. By 14 days, graft volume had retracted and GFP immunoreactivity was absent, indicating complete donor rejection. Consequently, MSCs did not exhibit plasticity formerly identified in other studies. However, BrdU- and BBZ-labeled cells were detected up to 12 weeks. Control transplants of nonviable MSCs demonstrated the transfer of donor labels to host cells. Unexpectedly, BrdU labeling was colocalized to host phagocytes, astrocytes, and neurons in both regions. Our results indicate that MSCs transplanted to the intact adult brain are rejected by an inflammatory response. Moreover, use of the traditional cell labels BrdU and BBZ may provide a misleading index of donor survival and differentiation after transplantation.

The slow-channel syndrome (SCS) is a neuromuscular disorder characterized by fatigability, progressive weakness, and degeneration of the neuromuscular junction. The SCS is caused by missense mutations in the four subunits of the skeletal muscle acetylcholine receptor (AChR), which leads to altered channel gating, prolonged neuromuscular postsynaptic currents, and impaired neuromuscular transmission. Although a diverse set of mutations in different functional domains of the AChR appear to be associated with symptoms of widely ranging severity, there is as yet no mutant channel property or combination that explains the variations in disease severity. By observing the recovery time of AChR from desensitization, the authors determined that this process is significantly enhanced in SCS channels. In addition, as expected, the authors found that SCS macroscopic decay currents in transfected HEK293 cells are slower than wild type currents. While slight differences in relative Ca(2+) permeability between some SCS mutations were identified, they did not correlate with apparent disease severity. These results suggest that of the different AChR kinetic features studied, only recovery from desensitization and slow postsynaptic currents correlate with the severity observed in the different mutations of this syndrome.
The potential of repeated exposure to Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (Delta(9)-THC) to produce long-lasting changes in synaptic connections in a manner similar to other drugs of abuse was evaluated in Sprague-Dawley rats. For 12 days, rats received two i.p. injections per day (8 h apart) of vehicle, a low dose of Delta(9)-THC (0.5 mg/kg), or escalating doses of Delta(9)-THC (0.5-4.0 mg/kg). Thirty days later, they were evaluated for sensitized locomotor activity (during the night cycle) for 60 min on each of three trials. Using a within-groups design, rats were tested following an injection of vehicle, 0.5 mg/kg Delta(9)-THC or 2.0 mg/kg Delta(9)-THC. The rats showed no evidence of sensitized locomotor activity in any group. Twenty-four hours after the final sensitization test, their brains were removed and then processed for Golgi-Cox staining. Prior exposure to Delta(9)-THC (both the low dose and the escalating doses) increased the length of the dendrites as well as the number of dendritic branches in the shell of the nucleus accumbens and in the medial prefrontal cortex, but not in the hippocampus, striatum, orbital frontal cortex, parietal cortex, or occipital cortex. These results are similar to those evident in brains of rats sensitized to amphetamine, and support previous findings that cannabinoids promote DA activity in the mesolimbic DA system.
The nucleus accumbens is involved in the selection and expression of motivated behaviors. Attempts to understand how activity of single neurons in the accumbens relates to behavior have largely concentrated on brief modulations in accumbal firing that occur in the seconds around events during operant sessions. However, a small number of studies have reported modulations that last the entire duration of a behavioral session. In all of these reports, the operant session was a drug self-administration session. The present study tested the hypothesis that session-long modulations, like phasic firing patterns, are components of normal accumbal activity during periods of instrumental behavior. Eight rats were chronically implanted (unilaterally) with microwire arrays in the nucleus accumbens, and trained to lever press on a Fixed-Ratio 1 schedule of sucrose reinforcement. Activity of 51 single units was recorded, and both session-long increases (n = 14) and session-long decreases (n = 13) were observed. These findings show that session-long modulations are a normal component of the response of accumbal neurons during periods of operant behavior. Moreover, although session-long modulations during cocaine self-administration sessions might reflect pharmacological actions, aspects of the modulations might additionally or alternatively correspond to afferent-driven responses. Further characterization of the firing patterns may elucidate novel mechanisms that mediate accumbal contributions to behavior.
Mercury is a potent neurotoxin that can delay neurological development in neonates, and has been proposed to be an environmental risk factor for several neurodegenerative conditions. The mechanisms by which environmental factors may influence the propagation of neurodegenerative diseases are not yet well delineated. However, it is known that neurons require trophic factor support for maintenance and survival following traumatic physical and toxic insults. We found that divalent mercury (HgCl(2)) inhibited ciliary neurotrophic factor and interferon-gamma receptor-mediated Janus tyrosine kinase (Jak)/signal transducers and activators of transcription (STAT) pathway activation in SK-N-BE(2)-C neuroblastoma cell cultures, but did not inhibit the fibroblast growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase. Results of dichlorofluorescein experiments showed increased levels of oxidative stress in HgCl(2)-treated cells that was similar in magnitude to that caused by treatment with H(2)O(2). The antioxidant agents glutathione, N-acetylcysteine, and sodium ascorbate each protected neurons against HgCl(2)-induced inhibition of STAT activation. HgCl(2) also inhibited Jak-STAT signaling in cultures of chick retina neurons, but did not affect signaling in nonneuronal HepG2 cells and chick skeletal myotubes. The specific inhibition of growth factor-mediated Jak-STAT signaling pathways in neurons by HgCl(2)-induced oxidative stress offers a new mechanism by which mercury may produce neurotoxic symptoms in the developing nervous system, promote neurodegeneration in mature neurons, and inhibit recovery following neurotrauma.
In this Opinion article we describe a theory that the brain mechanisms underlying working memory for novel information include a buffer in parahippocampal cortices. Computational modeling indicates that mechanisms for maintaining novel information in working memory could differ from mechanisms for maintaining familiar information. Electrophysiological data suggest that the buffer for novel information depends on acetylcholine. Acetylcholine activates single-cell mechanisms that underlie persistent spiking of neurons in the absence of synaptic transmission, allowing maintenance of information without prior synaptic modification. fMRI studies and lesion studies suggest that parahippocampal regions mediate working memory for novel stimuli, and the effects of cholinergic blockade impair this function. These intrinsic mechanisms in parahippocampal cortices provide an important alternative to theories of working memory based on recurrent synaptic excitation.
Consciousness is traditionally defined in mental or psychological terms. In trying to find its neural basis, introspective or behavioral observations are considered the gold standard, to which neural measures should be fitted. I argue that this poses serious problems for understanding the mind-brain relationship. To solve these problems, neural and behavioral measures should be put on an equal footing. I illustrate this by an example from visual neuroscience, in which both neural and behavioral arguments converge towards a coherent scientific definition of visual consciousness. However, to accept this definition, we need to let go of our intuitive or psychological notions of conscious experience and let the neuroscience arguments have their way. Only by moving our notion of mind towards that of brain can progress be made.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disease that is both common and incurable. The majority of cases are sporadic and of unknown origin but several genes have been identified that, when mutated, give rise to rare, familial forms of the disease. The principal genes that have been shown to cause PD are alpha-synuclein (SNCA), parkin, leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2), PTEN-induced putative kinase 1 (PINK1) and DJ-1. Here, we discuss what has been learnt from the study of these genes and what has been elucidated of the molecular pathways that lead to cell degeneration. Of importance is what these molecular events and pathways tell scientists of the common sporadic form of PD. Although complete knowledge of these genes' functions remains elusive, recent work implicates abnormal protein accumulation, protein phosphorylation, mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress as common pathways to PD pathogenesis.
In a screen for homeobox transcription factors expressed in the embryonic ventral midbrain, Andersson et al. recently identified Lmx1a and Msx1. Using in ovo electroporation in chick embryos, they showed that these factors are crucial for initiating the differentiation of neuroepithelial progenitor neurons into mesodiencephalic dopaminergic (mdDA) neurons. Lmx1a also initiated a developmental program that drove an mdDA phenotype in mouse embryonic stem cells. This indicates that these factors can be exploited in cell-replacement strategies for treatment of Parkinson's disease.
The laboratory mouse has emerged as a primary model organism for studying axon regeneration after experimental spinal cord injury, owing to its genetic amenability. Mutant mouse models are contributing significantly to our understanding of the molecular mechanisms of axon regeneration failure in the adult mammalian central nervous system (CNS), in particular regarding the role of axon-growth inhibitors. Here, we discuss recent advances in understanding axon regeneration failure that have been made using genetically modified mice, focusing on the inhibitory influences in the CNS, and we illustrate the advantages of using the mouse as a surrogate organism to study axon regeneration and spinal cord repair.
The adenosine A2A receptor has emerged as an attractive non-dopaminergic target in the pursuit of improved therapy for Parkinson's disease (PD), based in part on its unique CNS distribution. It is highly enriched in striatopallidal neurons and can form functional heteromeric complexes with other G-protein-coupled receptors, including dopamine D2, metabotropic glutamate mGlu5 and adenosine A1 receptors. Blockade of the adenosine A2A receptor in striatopallidal neurons reduces postsynaptic effects of dopamine depletion, and in turn lessens the motor deficits of PD. A2A antagonists might partially improve not only the symptoms of PD but also its course, by slowing the underlying neurodegeneration and reducing the maladaptive neuroplasticity that complicates standard 'dopamine replacement' treatments. Thus, we review here a prime example of translational neuroscience, through which antagonism of A2A receptors has now entered the arena of clinical trials with realistic prospects for advancing PD therapeutics.
Diets rich in vegetables and fruits are associated with reduced risk of several major diseases, including neurodegenerative disorders. Although some beneficial phytochemicals might function solely as antioxidants, it is becoming clear that many of the beneficial chemicals in vegetables and fruits evolved as toxins (to dissuade insects and other predators) that, at subtoxic doses, activate adaptive cellular stress-response pathways in a variety of cells including neurons. Examples of such 'preconditioning' or 'neurohormesis' pathways include those involving cell-survival signaling kinases, the transcription factors NRF2 and CREB, and histone deacetylases of the sirtuin family. In these ways, neurohormetic phytochemicals such as resveratrol, sulforaphanes and curcumin might protect neurons against injury and disease by stimulating the production of antioxidant enzymes, neurotrophic factors, protein chaperones and other proteins that help cells to withstand stress. Thus, as we discuss in this review, highly conserved longevity and survival pathways in neurons are the targets of many phytochemicals.
Neuroplasticity induced in the nucleus accumbens by repeated psychostimulant administration is thought to underlie the vulnerability to relapse in addicts. Electrophysiological research presents a contradictory portrait of psychostimulant-induced neuroplasticity, reflecting both increases and decreases in excitatory transmission. Drug-induced adaptations of ionic conductances decrease the intrinsic excitability of individual nucleus accumbens spiny neurons but, in the context of the circuitry in which these neurons are embedded, such reduced intrinsic excitability increases the salience of excitatory drive that is elicited by drug-associated stimuli. Thus, we propose that reduced basal excitability, combined with enhanced excitatory drive by drug-associated stimuli, contributes to the two cardinal features of addiction: reduced responding to natural reward and enduring vulnerability to relapse.
The olfactory and immune systems must perform optimally in the task of recognizing thousands of molecules to ensure survival. A particularly intriguing link between these systems is that animals can smell differences in the major histocompatibility complex (MHC), a cluster of highly polymorphic genes found on human chromosome 6 and mouse chromosome 17. Two different sets of compounds found in urine have been postulated to convey information on MHC haplotype: volatile compounds (odortypes) and MHC peptides. Here we argue for complementary roles for these chemosignals.
Schizophrenia is a grave psychiatric disorder with psychotic symptoms and an enigmatic etiology. Family studies have strongly indicated that genetic risk factors have a role in this disease. Recent findings, together with previously established evidence, highlight the PDZ-domain-containing protein interacting with C-kinase 1 (PICK1) as a promising candidate for a schizophrenia susceptibility gene. Here, we outline possible molecular mechanisms, discuss clinical case-studies that indicate an unexpected role of PICK1 in schizophrenia and discuss potential avenues for pharmacological manipulation of PICK1.
The article summarizes a number of recent findings about the brain changes which take place during the adolescence and the youth, their relations with their behavior and some questions are formulated with regard to the deepening of these hypothesis.
The ganglion cell layer of mammalian retina contains numerous amacrine cells. Many belong to one type, the cholinergic starburst cell, but the other types have not been systematically identified. Using a new method to target sparsely represented cell types, we filled about 200 amacrine neurons in the ganglion cell layer of the guinea pig visual streak and identified 11 types. Ten of these resemble types identified in other species with somas in the inner nuclear layer, but one type has not been previously reported. Most of the types and nearly all the injected cells (95%) arborized low in the synaptic layer where they would co-stratify with various classes of ON ganglion cell. The displaced somas (7% of all amacrine cells) thus represent a heterogeneous pool, which are relatively accessible for study of their interactions with ON ganglion cells.
In naturalistic tasks, subjects often interact with a cluttered visual environment in which they need to divide their attention simultaneously among multiple objects and tasks. Previous work examining the effects of aging in tasks that approximate these real world demands have shown that performance often declines with age. For example, when subjects must perform central and peripheral visual tasks simultaneously in a Useful Field of View (UFOV) task, performance on the peripheral task declines relative to when subjects perform the peripheral task alone, and this divided-attention deficit grows decade-by-decade throughout our lifetimes [e.g., Sekuler, A.B., Bennett, P.J., and Mamelak, M. (2000). Effects of Aging on the Useful Field of View. Experimental Aging Research, 26, 103-120]. Here, we investigated the extent to which age-related differences in divided-attention could be overcome with practice. In addition, we assessed how divided attention costs varied when initial performance levels were equated across age groups at the start of practice. Experiment 1 determined the stimulus durations that approximately equated attentional costs for younger and older subjects. These stimulus durations were used in Experiments 2 and 3 to equate task difficulty across age. Experiments 2 and 3 examined the effect of practice for 1-2 weeks. Practice improved performance for both younger and older subjects, and, when older subjects were provided with enough practice, their attentional costs were equivalent to those of younger subjects. Indeed, with enough practice, both younger and older subjects reached a point where they showed no divided-attention deficits, although older subjects may need more practice to reach this point. Finally, the beneficial effects of practice were maintained for at least three months.
Two ambiguous transparent structure-from-motion (SFM) stimuli often appear to co-rotate. Grossmann &amp; Dobbins (2003) reported breakdown of such perceptual coupling when one stimulus was made unambiguous (by rendering it opaque), leading them to propose that coupling depends generally on differential stimulus ambiguity. In contrast, we demonstrate robust stimulus-driven coupling even when one SFM stimulus is relatively disambiguated, by using relative-luminance and/or binocular-disparity cues. Such context stimuli could induce stimulus-driven coupling by disambiguating the transparent stimulus, though critically only when the context was clearly non-opaque and coaxial with the ambiguous stimulus. This demonstrates long-range information-sharing between separate stimulus representations, subject to specific constraints.
Visual working memory contains a representation of certain image statistics (Victor &amp; Conte, 2004), in addition to a pixel-by-pixel representation. Here, we show that the representation of statistics is more stable in time (up to 3000 ms) than the pixel-by-pixel representation, especially for changes in luminance and local high-order statistics, and is not affected by visual masking. Bilaterally symmetric arrays and arrays with local correlations are more readily encoded than random ones, but a change in the presence of bilateral symmetry, per se, contributes only modestly to the ability to detect that an array has changed.
We show in a 4-layer competitive neuronal network that continuous transformation learning, which uses spatial correlations and a purely associative (Hebbian) synaptic modification rule, can build view invariant representations of complex 3D objects. This occurs even when views of the different objects are interleaved, a condition where temporal trace learning fails. Human psychophysical experiments showed that view invariant object learning can occur when spatial but not temporal continuity applies because of interleaving of stimuli, although sequential presentation, which produces temporal continuity, can facilitate learning. Thus continuous transformation learning is an important principle that may contribute to view invariant object recognition.
The lateral occipital complex (LOC), a cortical region critical for human object recognition, has been shown to primarily code the shape, rather than the surface properties, of an object. But what aspects of shape? Using an fMRI-adaptation (fMRI-a) paradigm in which subjects judged whether two contour-deleted images of objects were the same or different exemplars, virtually all the adaptation in LOC [especially in LOC's most anterior portion (pFs)] could be attributed to repetition of the parts, almost none to the repetition of local image features, such as lines or vertices, templates, or basic- or subordinate-level concepts of the object. These results support the hypothesis that the neural representation of shape in LOC is an intermediate one, encoding the parts of an object.
Exogenous covert attention is an automatic, transient form of attention that can be triggered by sudden changes in the periphery. Here we test for the effects of attention on color perception. We used the methodology developed by Carrasco, Ling, and Read [Carrasco, M., Ling, S., &amp; Read, S. (2004). Attention alters appearance. Nature Neuroscience, 7 (3) 308-313] to explore the effects of exogenous attention on appearance of saturation (Experiment 1) and of hue (Experiment 2). We also tested orientation discrimination performance for single stimuli defined by saturation or hue (Experiment 3). The results indicate that attention increases apparent saturation, but does not change apparent hue, notwithstanding the fact that it improves orientation discrimination for both saturation and hue stimuli.
Tick-borne relapsing fever (RF) and Lyme disease (LD) are spirochetal infections of humans caused by different Borrelia species in endemic areas throughout the world. Our laboratory is studying the response of mammalian hosts to borrelia infection in RF and LD. For this, we use mice and non-human primates infected with B. burgdorferi sensu stricto strain N40 (N40) and the Oz1 strain of Borrelia turicatae (Bt), agents of LD and RF in North America, respectively. Our results have revealed that outbred non-human primates are significantly less susceptible than outbred mice to persistent infection with N40. In contrast, the majority of mice inoculated with the RF agent B. turicatae clear the infection, with the notable exception of residual brain or blood infection in up to 25% of cases. Little if any tissue injury occurs in immunocompetent animals with either LD or RF. In contrast, impairment of specific antibody production results in significant tissue injury, most notably in the heart, in both LD and RF. The inflammatory infiltrate is rich in plasma cells, activated macrophages and T cells, and there is significant deposition of antibody and complement, including membrane attack complex, in inflamed tissues and spirochetes. Significant loss of cardiomyocytes with apoptosis and caspase activation was observed in the heart of immunosuppressed non-human primates infected with N40 and in B cell-deficient mice infected with B. turicatae. Unlike the heart, the brain of B cell-deficient mice infected with B. turicatae showed prominent microglial activation but no detectable tissue injury. Tissues from immunosuppressed non-human primates infected with N40 produce large amounts of immunoglobulin and the B cell chemokine CXCL13, both of which significantly correlate with the spirochetal load. We conclude that the main response of mammalian hosts in LD and RF is the production of specific antibody to clear the infection. Failure of this response leads to persistent infection, which can lead to tissue injury, most notably in the heart.

Honey bees undergo an age-related, socially regulated transition from working in the hive to foraging that has been previously associated with changes in the expression of thousands of genes in the brain. To understand the meaning of these changes, we conducted microarray analyses to examine the following: (i) the ontogeny of gene expression preceding the onset of foraging, (ii) the effects of physiological and genetic factors that influence this behavioral transition, and (iii) the effects of foraging experience. Although &gt;85% of approximately 5,500 genes showed brain differences, principal component analysis revealed discrete influences of age, behavior, genotype, environment, and experience. Young bees not yet competent to forage showed extensive, age-related expression changes, essentially complete by 8 days of age, coinciding with previously described structural brain changes. Subsequent changes were not age-related but were largely related to effects of juvenile hormone (JH), suggesting that the increase in JH that influences the hive bee-forager transition may cause many of these changes. Other treatments that also influence the onset age of foraging induced many changes but with little overlap, suggesting that multiple pathways affect behavioral maturation. Subspecies differences in onset age of foraging were correlated with differences in JH and JH-target gene expression, suggesting that this endocrine system mediates the genetic differences. We also used this multifactorial approach to identify candidate genes for behavioral maturation. This successful dissection of gene expression indicates that, for social behavior, gene expression in the brain can provide a robust indicator of the interaction between hereditary and environmental information.
Whereas visuomotor behaviors and visual object recognition have been studied in detail, we know relatively little about tactile object representations. We investigate a new model system for the tactile guidance of behavior, namely prey (cricket) capture by one of the smallest mammals, the Etruscan shrew, Suncus etruscus. Because of their high metabolic rate and nocturnal lifestyle, Etruscan shrews are forced to detect, overwhelm, and kill prey in large numbers in darkness. Crickets are exquisitely mechanosensitive, fast-moving prey, almost as big as the shrew itself. Shrews succeed in hunting by lateralized, precise, and fast attacks. Removal experiments demonstrate that both macrovibrissae and microvibrissae are required for prey capture, with the macrovibrissae being involved in attack targeting. Experiments with artificial prey replica show that tactile shape cues are both necessary and sufficient for evoking attacks. Prey representations are motion- and size-invariant. Shrews distinguish and memorize prey features. Corrective maneuvers and cricket shape manipulation experiments indicate that shrew behavior is guided by Gestalt-like prey descriptions. Thus, tactile object recognition in Etruscan shrews shares characteristics of human visual object recognition, but it proceeds faster and occurs in a 20,000-times-smaller brain.
The electrophysiological properties of rat inferior olive (IO) neurons in the dorsal cap of Kooy (DCK) and the adjacent ventrolateral outgrowth (VLO) were compared with those of IO neurons in the principal olive (PO). Whereas DCK/VLO neurons are involved in eye movement control via their climbing fiber projection to the cerebellar flocculus, PO neurons control limb and digit movements via their climbing fiber projection to the lateral cerebellar hemisphere. In vitro patch recordings from DCK/VLO neurons revealed that low threshold calcium currents, Ih currents, and subthreshold oscillations are lacking in this subset of IO neurons. The recordings of activity in DCK neurons obtained by using voltage-sensitive dye imaging showed that activity is not limited to a single neuron, but rather that clusters of DCK neurons can be active in unison. These electrophysiological results show that the DCK/VLO neurons have unique properties that set them apart from the neurons in the PO nucleus. This finding indicates that motor control, from the perspective of the olivocerebellar system, is fundamentally different for the oculomotor and the somatomotor systems.
Alcoholism is associated with a high risk for suicidal behavior. Up to 40% of persons with alcoholism attempt suicide at some time and 7% end their lives by committing suicide. Risk factors include being male, older than 50 years of age, living alone, being unemployed, poor social support, interpersonal losses, continued drinking, consumption of a greater amount of alcohol when drinking, a recent alcohol binge, previous alcohol treatment, a family history of alcoholism, a history of comorbid substance abuse (especially cocaine), a major depressive episode, serious medical illness, suicidal communication, and prior suicidal behavior. Suicidal behavior is especially frequent in patients with comorbid alcoholism and major depression. However, all patients with alcoholism should be evaluated for suicide risk. Understanding of risk and vulnerability to suicidal behavior in alcoholism still outweighs our knowledge of protective factors and resilience. Knowledge of protective factors for suicide may help to prevent and/or predict suicidal behavior. Protective factors for suicide in alcoholism are quite varied and include an individual's biological and behavioral characteristics, as well as attributes of the environment and culture. Protective factors include effective clinical care for psychiatric (including alcoholism and drug abuse) and physical disorders, easy access to a variety of clinical interventions and support for seeking help, restricted access to highly lethal means of suicide, strong connections to family and community support, skills in problem solving and conflict resolution, cultural and religious beliefs that discourage suicide and support self-preservation. Future studies are necessary to determine which interventions may reduce suicidal behavior in alcoholism.
The hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis controls the secretion of corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH), corticotropin (adrenocorticotropic hormone, ACTH), and cortisol. The dexamethasone suppression test (DST) is the most frequently used test to assess HPA system function in psychiatric disorders. Patients who have failed to suppress plasma cortisol secretion, i.e., who escape from the suppressive effect of dexamethasone, have a blunted glucocorticoid receptor response. After CRH became available for clinical studies, the DST was combined with CRH administration. The resulting combined dexamethasone suppression-corticotropin-releasing hormone stimulation (DST-CRH) test proved to be more sensitive in detecting HPA system changes than the DST. There is a growing interest in the use of the DEX-CRH test for psychiatric research. The DEX-CRH test has been used to study different psychiatric conditions. Major depression, alcoholism, and suicidal behavior are public health problems around the world. Considerable evidence suggests that HPA dysregulation is involved in the pathogenesis of depressive disorders, alcoholism, and suicidal behavior. Over the past 2 decades, there has been a shift from viewing excessive HPA activity in depression as an epiphenomenon to its having specific effects on symptom formation and cognition. The study of HPA function in depression, alcoholism, and suicidal behavior may yield new understanding of the pathophysiology of these conditions, and suggest new approaches for therapeutic interventions. The combined DEX-CRH test may become a useful neuroendocrinological tool for evaluating psychiatric patients.
A current trend in neuroscience research is the use of stable isotope tracers in order to address metabolic processes in vivo. The tracers produce a huge number of metabolite forms that differ according to the number and position of labeled isotopes in the carbon skeleton (isotopomers) and such a large variety makes the analysis of isotopomer data highly complex. On the other hand, this multiplicity of forms does provide sufficient information to address cell operation in vivo. By the end of last millennium, a number of tools have been developed for estimation of metabolic flux profile from any possible isotopomer distribution data. However, although well elaborated, these tools were limited to steady state analysis, and the obtained set of fluxes remained disconnected from their biochemical context. In this review we focus on a new numerical analytical approach that integrates kinetic and metabolic flux analysis. The related computational algorithm estimates the dynamic flux based on the time-dependent distribution of all possible isotopomers of metabolic pathway intermediates that are generated from a labeled substrate. The new algorithm connects specific tracer data with enzyme kinetic characteristics, thereby extending the amount of data available for analysis: it uses enzyme kinetic data to estimate the flux profile, and vice versa, for the kinetic analysis it uses in vivo tracer data to reveal the biochemical basis of the estimated metabolic fluxes.
Apoptosis is a programmed cell death that plays a critical role during the development of the nervous system and in many chronic neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). This pathology, characterized by a progressive degeneration of cholinergic function resulting in a remarkable cognitive decline, is the most common form of dementia with high social and economic impact. Current therapies of AD are only symptomatic, therefore the need to elucidate the mechanisms underlying the onset and progression of the disease is surely needed in order to develop effective pharmacological therapies. Because of its pivotal role in neuronal cell death, apoptosis has been considered one of the most appealing therapeutic targets, however, due to the complexity of the molecular mechanisms involving the various triggering events and the many signaling cascades leading to cell death, a comprehensive understanding of this process is still lacking. Modular systems biology is a very effective strategy in organizing information about complex biological processes and deriving modular and mathematical models that greatly simplify the identification of key steps of a given process. This review aims at describing the main steps underlying the strategy of modular systems biology and briefly summarizes how this approach has been successfully applied for cell cycle studies. Moreover, after giving an overview of the many molecular mechanisms underlying apoptosis in AD, we present both a modular and a molecular model of neuronal apoptosis that suggest new insights on neuroprotection for this disease.
Whereas structurally dissimilar D(1) antagonists competing for [(3)H]-SCH23390 binding recognize primarily one site in striatum, two distinct affinity states are observed in both amygdala and hippocampus. The binding profile of SCH23390 is similar in both of these regions, with the high affinity site (K(D) approximately 0.4 nM) consistent with D(1)/D(5) receptors. The appearance of the low affinity site (K(D) approximately 300 nM) is dependent upon the absence of MgCl(2), but independent of D(1) expression (i.e., still present in D(1) knockout mice). Although the density of high affinity state receptor is lower in hippocampus or amygdala of D(1) knockout mice, some residual binding remains, consistent with the known expression of D(5) receptors in these regions. Remarkably, in hippocampus, the affinity of the low affinity site is shifted rightward in the presence of the D(2) antagonist domperidone and is largely absent in the hippocampus of D(2) knockout animals. Additionally, this site is also shifted rightward in the presence of the A(2A) ligands SCH58261, CSC, or NECA, or in the absence of A(2A) receptors. The affinity of SCH23390 for this low affinity site is greater than seen for SCH23390 binding to D(2) receptors in heterologous expression systems, consistent with the hypothesis that both D(2) and A(2A) receptors are involved in the low affinity binding site. Therefore, we suggest that the heteromerization of D(2) and A(2A) receptors reported previously in vitro also may occur in the brain of both rats and mice.
The nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS) is a critical structure involved in coordinating autonomic and visceral activities. Previous independent studies have demonstrated efferent projections from the NTS to the nucleus paragigantocellularis (PGi) and the central nucleus of the amygdala (CNA) in rat brain. To further characterize the neural circuitry originating from the NTS with postsynaptic targets in the amygdala and medullary autonomic targets, distinct green or red fluorescent latex microspheres were injected into the PGi and the CNA, respectively, of the same rat. Thirty-micron thick tissue sections through the lower brainstem and forebrain were collected. Every fourth section through the NTS region was processed for immunocytochemical detection of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), a marker of catecholaminergic neurons. Retrogradely labeled neurons from the PGi or CNA were distributed throughout the rostro-caudal segments of the NTS. However, the majority of neurons containing both retrograde tracers were distributed within the caudal third of the NTS. Cell counts revealed that approximately 27% of neurons projecting to the CNA in the NTS sent collateralized projections to the PGi while approximately 16% of neurons projecting to the PGi sent collateralized projections to the CNA. Interestingly, more than half of the PGi and CNA-projecting neurons in the NTS expressed TH immunoreactivity. These data indicate that catecholaminergic neurons in the NTS are poised to simultaneously coordinate activities in limbic and medullary autonomic brain regions.
The glucocorticoid receptor (GR) is a key regulator of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. Mood disorder patients often exhibit abnormalities in this axis. Although the clinical benefit of antidepressants is associated with the normalization of the disturbed HPA activity by enhanced negative feedback of the HPA axis, the precise mechanism remains unknown. In order to examine the effect of antidepressants on the translocation of GR into the nucleus, we performed time-lapse observation on SY5Y cells that had been transiently transfected with plasmids expressing the green fluorescence protein (GFP)-tagged GRalpha. Clomipramine and desipramine facilitated dexamethasone (Dex)-induced GFP-GRalpha nuclear translocation. Coincubation of verapamil, an inhibitor of membrane steroid transporters, showed little or no additive effect on GFP-GRalpha nuclear translocation induced by both Dex and clomipramine. In the absence of Dex, antidepressants did not induce the translocation of GFP-GRalpha into the nucleus. Using real-time PCR, we examined the effect of antidepressants on splicing isoform of GR, GRalpha, and GRbeta in SY5Y and Jurkat cells. Incubation with paroxetine and desipramine for 48 h and 7 days increased GRalpha expression, whereas the expression of GRbeta remained stable. Antidepressants did not alter the expression of SRp30c that is associated with alternative splicing of GR transcript. Thus, antidepressants exert differential effects on the translocation and expression of GR to enhance GR signaling.
ATP is an excitatory neurotransmitter in the central and peripheral nervous system. We investigated ATP accumulation in highly purified brain synaptic vesicles (SVs). Based on the amount of ATP accumulated in SVs under the conditions used, ATP is not transported against a concentration gradient but rather appears to have a Delta mu H(+)-independent mechanism. ATP transport was inhibited by DIDS and NEM, but was not affected by Mg(2+) or by pre-incubation with nucleotides. These results suggest a unique transport mechanism that does not involve exchange with other nucleotides or protons, unlike other known neurotransmitter transport systems.
Amyloid-beta (Abeta) deposits are one of the hallmarks of the neuropathological degeneration observed in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Abeta concentrations have been reported to vary in different brain regions of AD patients. Abeta is produced by the sequential cleavage of amyloid precursor protein (APP) by beta-secretase and gamma-secretase, respectively. Previous studies have shown that over-expression of the gamma-secretase complex leads to increased gamma-secretase proteolytic activity increasing Abeta production. However, it is not known whether brain regions with highest Abeta concentration also express relatively higher levels of gamma-secretase activity. Accordingly, the relationship between Abeta levels and gamma-secretase activity across brain regions was investigated and correlated in the brains of transgenic and non-transgenic rodents commonly used in AD research. The data demonstrated that Abeta levels do vary in different brain regions in both transgenic and non-transgenic mice but are not correlated with regional gamma-secretase activity. Furthermore, this study demonstrated that while mutations in the APP and PS1 sequences affect the absolute Abeta levels this is not reflected in an increase in gamma-secretase proteolytic activity. The data in the current paper indicate that this assay is able to measure the level of gamma-secretase activity in rodent species. Using this methodology will aid our understanding of physiological gamma-secretase function.
Artifact signals from eye movements, heart beat and muscle activity contaminate magnetoencephalographic (MEG) signals generated from the neural activities inside the brain. Rejection of contaminated trials not only causes data loss, but can also significantly increase the experimental time or even prevent the analysis of highly contaminated or noisy data. We combined the use of independent component analysis (ICA) and clustering methods to isolate the artifacts from MEG signals. Threshold-based clustering analyses based on the topographic pattern, statistical aspects and power spectral patterns of independent components (ICs) successfully identified ICs related to certain types of artifacts. Unsupervised neural network based on the Adaptive Resonance Theory (ART) also categorized the artifact ICs, albeit with lower accuracy. Performance of the identification methods were evaluated with measurements of underestimation and overestimation of the target artifactual ICs. The combination of threshold-based clustering and ART-2 neural network categorization methods demonstrated the best identification performance. Comparison between contaminated and artifact-cleaned MEG signal waveforms showed the efficiency of the proposed methods of artifacts rejection. The analysis of the artifact components suggested the possibility of automatic artifact removal based on general templates.
Reverse correlation techniques provide a quantitative means of computing neuronal input/output relationships. Until now these methods have been limited to electrically recorded responses since unprocessed optical signals generally lack necessary temporal characteristics. We sought to overcome this barrier since combining reverse correlation with calcium imaging would afford a powerful alternative to current methods of measuring response properties of neurons non-invasively in vivo. We labeled zebrafish optic tecta with a calcium indicator and measured responses to a whole-field random flicker light stimulus. Although calcium signals exhibited slow decay kinetics, we could use computational modeling to show that the positive differential of these traces extracts high frequency information. Experimentally, we found that calcium signals processed in this way were synchronous with simultaneously measured synaptic responses and could be used with reverse correlation to determine temporal filters of neurons in the zebrafish optic tectum. These findings demonstrate that calcium responses to physiological stimulation can be processed to obtain rapid signal information and consequently to determine linear filter properties in vivo.
We established a protocol for the immunofluorescent detection of glutamate receptor subunits at synaptic sites using laser scanning confocal microscopy and stereological procedures. An in vitro model of eyeblink classical conditioning from turtles was used for this study. Triple-labeling of the presynaptic marker synaptophysin, the NR1 subunit of NMDA receptors, and the GluR4 subunit of AMPA receptors was performed on pseudoconditioned (control) and conditioned in vitro brain stem preparations in which punctate staining for each individual protein, as well as for the colocalization of GluR4 and NR1 with synaptophysin, was analyzed. For every tissue section analyzed, images of two consecutive optical planes were taken using confocal microscopy. Protein puncta were counted in one optical section (sample section) if they were not present in the optical section immediately above the sample section (look-up section). We found a significant increase in the colocalization of GluR4-containing AMPA receptors with synaptophysin after conditioning compared with the control group. Colocalization of NR1 subunits with synaptophysin was unchanged after conditioning. The described protocol, therefore, can be used for the quantitative analysis of changes in synaptic localization of different types of proteins. The protocol is designed to provide a more accurate and uniform approach in studying receptor trafficking during various forms of synaptic plasticity.
For studies of motor neuron function or for therapeutic purposes, novel pseudotype HIV-1-based vectors were developed that are capable of expressing transgenes in motor neurons following injection into mouse hind limb muscles. To specifically target motor neurons, glycoproteins from two rabies virus (RV) isolates, the mouse-brain adapted challenge virus 24 (CVS-24) variants, CVS-N2c and CVS-B2c were evaluated for pseudotype formation with an HIV-1-based vector. Both RV glycoproteins incorporated into vector envelopes, and both pseudotypes yielded high titers with Hek293T and cortical plate neuron cultures. Increased neuronotropism by the CVS-N2c pseudotype was not observed, suggesting that vector tropism is not solely determined by the fusogenic viral glycoprotein. Vector injection into hind limb muscles resulted in EYFP reporter gene expression in the injected muscle fibers and in spinal cord motor neurons innervating the same muscle, indicating retrograde vector transport. Intramuscular vector injections into the soleus and tibialis anterior muscles transduced 26% and 16% of all motor neurons in each motor nucleus, respectively. These transduction efficiencies may allow novel approaches to functional studies of the motor system and the treatment of neuromuscular disease.
An area of increasing interest in spinal cord injury (SCI) research is the development of multi-factorial strategies to promote repair. In this respect, a prominent role is played by cell transplantation, the reparative effect of which can be enhanced by additional use of neurotrophic factors. Immature astrocytes have shown their merit in stimulating axon regeneration upon transplantation into the injured spinal cord. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) influences a wide range of descending axon tracts in the injured spinal cord. In the present study, we hypothesized that the neurite outgrowth of neonatal cortical neurons on immature astrocytes is enhanced in the presence of BDNF. To test this hypothesis, neonatal cortical neurons were cultured on neonatal astrocytes for 2 days in absence or presence of BDNF. The length of the longest neurite and the number of primary neurites per neuron were taken as measures to study neurite outgrowth. We show that BDNF dose-dependently enhanced neurite outgrowth of neonatal cerebral cortical neurons grown on immature astrocytes. Compared to conditions without BDNF, the length of the longest neurite increased by 25.5 and 28.8% in presence of 10 and 100 pg/ml BDNF, respectively. BDNF did not alter the density of the immature astrocytes. We conclude that the presence of BDNF enhances the neurite outgrowth on immature astrocytes. A multi-factorial strategy based on transplantation of neonatal astrocytes in the presence of additional BDNF is recommended and may stimulate axon regrowth after experimental injury to the central nervous system.
Taste is intimately associated with food choice, yet little is known about the role of taste in preferences for dietary fat, a major component of many foods. We measured the taste threshold for linoleic acid (LA), an essential free fatty acid found in dietary fat, before and after bilateral transections of the chorda tympani nerve (CTX) in adult male and female rats. We conditioned a taste aversion to 88 microM LA and assessed the generalization of the aversion to lower LA concentrations to determine LA discrimination thresholds. We discovered that female rats had a lower LA discrimination threshold (approximately 2.75 microM LA) than did male rats (approximately 11 microM LA). In another set of animals, we performed CTX and found that CTX elevated LA threshold to the same level (approximately 22 microM LA) in male and female rats. Finally, we evaluated licking responses to 11, 22, 44 and 88 microM LA mixed in sucrose by male rats and ovariectomized (OVX) female rats treated with estradiol benzoate or oil vehicle. All rats increased licking to increasing LA concentrations, but OVX rats responded to a lower LA concentration (22 microM) than did males (44 microM) in 10-s trials. However, estradiol did not affect this outcome. Collectively, these experiments show that male and female rats use taste to discriminate LA and that the chorda tympani nerve, which innervates taste buds on the anterior tongue, plays a role in this discrimination. Furthermore, sex differences in fat preferences may depend on differences in fatty acid taste thresholds as well as on the taste stimuli with which fat is combined.
Prolonged social subjugation produces physiological indices of chronic stress in rats. In the current study, we examined the impact of social stress on glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) isoforms, corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) and vasopressin mRNA expression in forebrain stress circuitry, using the visible burrow system model of dominance-subordination. Subordinate male rats develop behavioral and neuroendocrine changes consistent with exposure to chronic stress, including marked loss of body weight and elevation of basal plasma corticosterone relative to dominant rats. Forebrain GAD65, GAD67, CRH and vasopressin mRNA expression in central stress-regulatory circuits were examined by in situ hybridization. Elevated CRH mRNA was observed in the oval nucleus of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BST) of subordinate males. In contrast, GAD67 expression was decreased in the interfascicular nucleus of the BST in both the subordinate and dominant rats compared to non-burrow control rats. No changes in CRH, GAD or vasopressin were observed in amygdaloid nuclei, other BST nuclei or in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus. Collectively, these data suggest that exposure to the visible burrow system attenuates BST GAD expression regardless of social status, whereas the enhanced physiological responses to social stress seen in subordinates may be associated with enhanced CRH expression in the oval nucleus of the BST.
Earlier studies with functional imaging in schizophrenia have demonstrated dysfunction of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex during working memory. Controlling for behavioral performance and for catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) Val158Met genotype, we here demonstrate in a functional magnetic resonance imaging paradigm that patients recruit greater neuronal resources in prefrontal cortex during working memory, suggesting that this phenotype is a core functional trait of the disease. We also replicated earlier findings that the Val allele of the COMT polymorphism is associated with greater engagement of the prefrontal cortex.



Mitochondrial production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) is a well-established fact of fundamental importance to aging and etiology of many pathologies with serious public health implications. The ROS production is an innate property of mitochondrial biochemistry inseparable from the oxidative metabolism. Recent discoveries indicate that in addition to several ROS-detoxifying enzyme systems, which remove ROS, mitochondria may also be able to limit their ROS production by the mechanism comprising several protein-mediated energy-dissipating (&quot;uncoupling&quot;) pathways. Although the physiological significance and in vivo modus operandi of these pathways remain to be elucidated, several proteins potentially capable of energy dissipation are known. This mini-review addresses the identity of mitochondrial protein-mediated energy-dissipating pathways and the experimental evidence to their role in controlling ROS production.
Stress granules are aggregates of small ribosomal subunits, mRNA, and numerous associated RNA-binding proteins that include several translation initiation factors. Stress granule assembly occurs in the cytoplasm of higher eukaryotic cells under a wide variety of stress conditions, including heat shock, UV irradiation, hypoxia, and exposure to arsenite. Thus far, a unifying principle of eukaryotic initiation factor 2alpha phosphorylation prior to stress granule formation has been observed from the majority of experimental evidence. Pateamine A, a natural product isolated from marine sponge, was recently reported to inhibit eukaryotic translation initiation and induce the formation of stress granules. In this report, the protein composition and fundamental progression of stress granule formation and disassembly induced by pateamine A was found to be similar to that for arsenite. However, pateamine A-induced stress granules were more stable and less prone to disassembly than those formed in the presence of arsenite. Most significantly, pateamine A induced stress granules independent of eukaryotic initiation factor 2alpha phosphorylation, suggesting an alternative mechanism of formation from that previously described for other cellular stresses. Taking into account the known inhibitory effect of pateamine A on eukaryotic translation initiation, a model is proposed to account for the induction of stress granules by pateamine A as well as other stress conditions through perturbation of any steps prior to the rejoining of the 60S ribosomal subunit during the entire translation initiation process.
We report the use of a proteomic strategy to identify hitherto unknown substrates for mammalian protein l-isoaspartate O-methyltransferase. This methyltransferase initiates the repair of isoaspartyl residues in aged or stress-damaged proteins in vivo. Tissues from mice lacking the methyltransferase (Pcmt1(-/-)) accumulate more isoaspartyl residues than their wild-type littermates, with the most &quot;damaged&quot; residues arising in the brain. To identify the proteins containing these residues, brain homogenates from Pcmt1(-/-) mice were methylated by exogenous repair enzyme and the radiolabeled methyl donor S-adenosyl-[methyl-(3)H]methionine. Methylated proteins in the homogenates were resolved by both one-dimensional and two-dimensional electrophoresis, and methyltransferase substrates were identified by their increased radiolabeling when isolated from Pcmt1(-/-) animals compared with Pcmt1(+/+) littermates. Mass spectrometric analyses of these isolated brain proteins reveal for the first time that microtubule-associated protein-2, calreticulin, clathrin light chains a and b, ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase L1, phosphatidylethanolamine-binding protein, stathmin, beta-synuclein, and alpha-synuclein, are all substrates for the l-isoaspartate methyltransferase in vivo. Our methodology for methyltransferase substrate identification was further supplemented by demonstrating that one of these methyltransferase targets, microtubule-associated protein-2, could be radiolabeled within Pcmt1(-/-) brain extracts using radioactive methyl donor and exogenous methyltransferase enzyme and then specifically immunoprecipitated with microtubule-associated protein-2 antibodies to recover co-localized protein with radioactivity. We comment on the functional significance of accumulation of relatively high levels of isoaspartate within these methyltransferase targets in the context of the histological and phenotypical changes associated with the methyltransferase knock-out mice.
BACE1 is a membrane-bound aspartyl protease that specifically cleaves amyloid precursor protein (APP) at the beta-secretase site. Membrane bound reticulon (RTN) family proteins interact with BACE1 and negatively modulate BACE1 activity through preventing access of BACE1 to its cellular APP substrate. Here, we focused our study on RTN3 and further show that a C-terminal QID triplet conserved among mammalian RTN members is required for the binding of RTN to BACE1. Although RTN3 can form homo- or heterodimers in cells, BACE1 mainly binds to the RTN monomer and disruption of the QID triplet does not interfere with the dimerization. Correspondingly, the C-terminal region of BACE1 is required for the binding of BACE1 to RTNs. Furthermore, we show that the negative modulation of BACE1 by RTN3 relies on the binding of RTN3 to BACE1. The knowledge from this study may potentially guide discovery of small molecules that can mimic the effect of RTN3 on the inhibition of BACE1 activity.
Dnmt3a and Dnmt3b, which are known as functional de novo methyltransferases, are responsible for creating genomic methylation patterns during mammalian development. Recently, we have shown that specific expression of Dnmt3b in epiblast, embryonic ectoderm, hematopoietic progenitor cells and spermatogonia cells is followed by Dnmt3a expression (Watanabe D, Suetake I, Tada T, Tajima S (2002) Stage- and cell-specific expression of Dnmt3a and Dnmt3b during embryogenesis. Mech Dev 118:187-190; Watanabe D, Suetake I, Tajima S, Hanaoka K (2004) Expression of Dnmt3b in mouse hematopoietic progenitor cells and spermatogonia at specific stages. Gene Expr Patterns 5:43-49). In this study, we analyzed the expression of mouse de novo methyltransferases during development of the nervous systems. In the embryonic olfactory epithelium (OE), Dnmt3b was specifically expressed in Mash1 positive globose basal cells (i.e. transiently amplifying neural progenitor cells), while Dnmt3a was expressed in immature olfactory receptor neurons. Dnmt3b-positive cells were rarely observed in the adult OE, but were increased in regenerating OE with intranasal ZnSO(4) administration. Dnmt3b was also detected in the E8.5 neural plate, E10.5 spinal cord and retina cells, while Dnmt3a was expressed in postmitotic young neurons. Furthermore, Dnmt3b was specifically expressed in ES cells, while Dnmt3a was transiently expressed during neural cell differentiation of ES cells. Dnmt3b is specifically expressed in progenitor cells during hematopoiesis, spermatogenesis and neurogenesis, suggesting an important role in the initial steps of progenitor cell differentiation. Dnmt3a is expressed in postmitotic young neurons following the Dnmt3b expression. Dnmt3a may be required for the establishment of tissue-specific methylation patterns of the genome. The coordinated expression of de novo methyltransferases from Dnmt3b to Dnmt3a suggests conserved mechanisms of de novo methylation of the genome and different functions for Dnmt3b and Dnmt3a during progenitor cell development.
The relationship between adult hippocampal neurogenesis and cognition appears more complex than suggested by early reports. We aimed to determine if the duration and task demands of spatial memory training differentially affect hippocampal neurogenesis. Adult male rats were trained in the Morris water maze in a reference memory task for 4 days, or alternatively working memory for either 4 or 14 days. Four days of maze training did not impact neurogenesis regardless of whether reference or working memory paradigms were used. Interestingly, 2 weeks of working memory training using a hidden platform resulted in fewer newborn hippocampal neurons compared with controls that received either cue training or no maze exposure. Stress is a well-established negative regulator of hippocampal neurogenesis. We found that maze training in general, and a working memory task in particular, increased levels of circulating corticosterone after 4 days of training. Our study indicates that working memory training over a prolonged period of time reduces neurogenesis, and this reduction may partially be mediated by increased stress.
Doublecortin (DCX) is a microtubule-associated protein expressed in migrating neuroblasts. DCX expression is increased in subventricular zone (SVZ) cells migrating to the boundary of an ischemic lesion after induction of middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) in adult rats and mice. We tested the hypothesis that DCX, in addition to being a marker of migrating neuroblasts, serves to protect neuroblasts from conditions of stress, such as oxygen and glucose deprivation (OGD). Using gene transfer technology, we overexpressed DCX in rat SVZ and U-87 human glioma cells. The cells remained viable against severe OGD, up to 32 h exhibiting 1% apoptosis compared with 100% apoptosis in control. In addition, these genetically modified cells upregulated expression of E-, VE- and N-cadherin, molecules that promote endothelial survival signals via the VE-cadherin/vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-2/phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3-K)/AKT/beta-catenin pathway and inactivate the proapoptotic factor Bad. DCX overexpression also significantly increased cell migration in SVZ tissue explants and U-87 cells and significantly upregulated microtubule-associated protein-2 (MAP2) and nestin protein levels in SVZ and U-87 cells compared with wild-type control cells. Knocking down DCX expression in DCX overexpressing SVZ and U-87 cells with DCX small interfering RNA (siRNA), confirmed the specificity of DCX on cell survival against OGD, and the DCX induced upregulation of E-, VE- and N-cadherin, MAP2 and nestin. In NIH3T3 cells, DCX overexpression had no effect on cell survival against OGD, and indicating that the protective effects of DCX was restricted to brain cells e.g. SVZ and U-87 cells. Our data suggest a novel and an important role for DCX as a protective agent for migrating neuroblasts and tumor cells.
Central alpha-adrenergic receptor activity is important for fetal adaptation to hypoxia before birth. It is unclear whether it is also important during recovery. We therefore tested the hypothesis that an infusion of the specific alpha(2)-adrenergic receptor antagonist idazoxan (1 mg/kg/h i.v.) from 15 min to 4 h after profound hypoxia induced by 25 min umbilical cord occlusion in fetal sheep at 70% of gestation (equivalent to the 28-32 weeks in humans) would increase neural injury. After 3 days' recovery, idazoxan infusion was associated with a significant increase in neuronal loss in the hippocampus (P&lt;0.05), expression of cleaved caspase-3 (P&lt;0.05), and numbers of activated microglia (P&lt;0.05). There was no significant effect on other neuronal regions or on loss of O4-positive premyelinating oligodendrocytes in the subcortical white matter. Idazoxan was associated with an increase in evolving epileptiform electroencephalographic (EEG) transient activity after occlusion (difference at peak 2.5+/-1.0 vs. 11.7+/-4.7 counts/min, P&lt;0.05) and significantly reduced average spectral edge frequency, but not EEG intensity, from 54 until 72 h after occlusion (P&lt;0.05). Hippocampal neuronal loss was correlated with total numbers of epileptiform transients during idazoxan infusion (P&lt;0.01; r(2)=0.7). In conclusion, endogenous inhibitory alpha(2)-adrenergic receptor activation after severe hypoxia appears to significantly limit evolving hippocampal damage in the immature brain.
Exposure to hypobaric hypoxia produces neuropsychological disorders. The brain nitrergic system was investigated following hypobaric hypoxia in the presence or absence of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitors. Adult rats were exposed to a simulated altitude of 8325 m (27,000 ft) for 7 h and killed after 0, 1, 3, 5, and 10 days of recovery. In addition to normobaric controls, three experimental groups were studied: i) subjected to hypobaric hypoxia without inhibitors; ii) subjected to hypobaric hypoxia and treated with 7-nitroindazole; iii) subjected to hypobaric hypoxia and treated with N(omega)-nitro-l-arginine methyl ester (l-NAME). Cerebral cortex was assayed by immunohistochemistry, Western blotting, and enzymatic assays. In animals subjected to hypobaric hypoxia without inhibitors, there was an increase in neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) immunoreactivity and Ca(2+)-dependent NOS activity from 0 to 1 days of reoxygenation. In these animals, inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) expression and Ca(2+)-independent activity were undetectable, but nitrotyrosine immunoreactivity was found in some neurons. Administration of either inhibitor prevented the increase in nNOS immunoreactivity and enzymatic activity provoked by hypobaric hypoxia. Concomitantly, nitrotyrosine immunoreactivity decreased progressively. In conclusion, activation of the nitrergic system constitutes a cortical response to hypobaric hypoxia and the administration of NOS inhibitors could provide new therapeutic avenues to prevent and/or treat the symptoms produced by hypobaric hypoxia.
Opioids have impact on stress responses and possess immune modulatory functions. We have previously shown that immune stress elevates the levels of preproenkephalin transcript in a variety of autonomic structures in the rat brain, including the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus. By using in situ hybridization with an intronic probe recognizing the preproenkephalin heteronuclear RNA combined with retrograde tract tracing, we examined the efferent target of the enkephalinergic neurons in the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus that display induced transcriptional activity during immune challenge. Rats were first given i.p. injections of the tracer substance Fluoro-Gold, which following this route of administration is taken up only by nerve terminals residing outside the blood-brain barrier, and were then given an i.v. injection of lipopolysaccharide. Neuronal cell bodies retrogradely labeled with Fluoro-Gold were detected by immunohistochemistry, and-using a dual-labeling approach-the same cells were then examined for their expression of preproenkephalin heteronuclear RNA. We found that over 90% of the neurons that expressed preproenkephalin heteronuclear RNA also contained Fluoro-Gold. In addition, approximately 40% of the neurons expressing preproenkephalin heteronuclear RNA co-expressed mRNA for corticotropin-releasing hormone, the main adrenocorticotropic hormone secretagogue. These data show that the paraventricular hypothalamic neurons that display induced preproenkephalin transcription following immune challenge are almost exclusively hypophysiotropic neurons, indicating a role for enkephalin in the hypothalamic control of hormone release during infectious and inflammatory conditions.
Subventricular zone (SVZ) cells emigrate toward brain injury but relatively few survive. Thus, if they are to be used for repair, ex vivo expansion and autologous transplantation of SVZ cells may be necessary. Since it is unclear how brain injury alters SVZ cell culture, we studied neurosphere formation, differentiation, and migration, after cortical lesions. The number of neurosphere forming cells from lesioned mice was comparable to controls. Also, the proportion of astrocytes and neurons generated in vitro remained unchanged after cortical lesions. Cell emigration from neurospheres was characterized by increased cell-cell contact after injury in adults and neonates. However, neither molecules implicated in SVZ migration nor the extent of migration changed after injury. Thus, neurospheres can be successfully cultured after extensive brain damage, and they are remarkably stable in vitro, suggesting suitability for ex vivo expansion and autologous transplantation.
Tacrolimus (FK506) has a neuroprotective action on cerebral infarction produced by cerebral ischemia, however, detailed mechanisms underlying this action have not been fully elucidated. We examined temporal profiles of survival-and death-related signals, Bad phosphorylation, release of cytochrome c (cyt.c), activation of caspase 3 and DNA fragmentation in the brain during and after middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo) in mice, and then examined the effect of tacrolimus on these signals. C57BL/6J mice were subjected to transient MCAo by intraluminal suture insertion for 60 min. Tacrolimus (1 mg/kg, i.p.) was administered immediately after MCAo. There were biphasic increases in the release of cyt.c in the ischemic core and penumbra; with the first increase toward the end of the occlusion period and the second increase 3-12 h after reperfusion. Tacrolimus significantly inhibited the increase of cytosolic cyt.c during ischemia and reperfusion. Phosphorylated Bad, Ser-136 (P-Bad(136)) and Ser-155 (P-Bad(155)) were detected 30 min after MCAo and after reperfusion in the ischemic cortex, respectively. Tacrolimus increased P-Bad(136) during ischemia and prolonged P-Bad(155) expression after reperfusion. Tacrolimus also decreased caspase-3 and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated DNA nick-end labeling-positive cells, and reduced the size of infarct 24 h after reperfusion. Our study provided the first evidence that the neuroprotective action of tacrolimus involved inhibition of biphasic cyt.c release from mitochondria, possibly via up-regulation of Bad phosphorylation at different sites after focal cerebral ischemia and reperfusion.
The septal region of the basal forebrain plays a critical role modulating hippocampal excitability and functional states. Septal circuits may also play a role in controlling abnormal hippocampal hyperexcitability in epilepsy. Both lateral and medial septal neurons are targets of hippocampal axons. Since the hippocampus is an important epileptogenic area in temporal lobe epilepsy, we hypothesize that excessive excitatory output will promote sustained neurodegeneration of septal region neurons. Pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE) was chosen as a model to generate chronic epileptic animals. To determine whether septal neuronal populations are affected by hippocampal seizures, immunohistochemical assays were performed in brain sections obtained from age-matched control, latent period (7 days post-SE) and chronically epileptic (more than one month post-SE survival) rats. An anti-NeuN (neuronal nuclei) antibody was used to study total neuronal numbers. Anti-ChAT (choline acetyltransferase), anti-GAD (glutamic acid decarboxylase) isoenzymes (65 and 67), and anti-glutamate antibodies were used to reveal cholinergic, GABAergic and glutamatergic neurons, respectively. Our results revealed a significant atrophy of medial and lateral septal areas in all chronically epileptic rats. Overall neuronal density in the septum (medial and lateral septum), assessed by NeuN immunoreactivity, was significantly reduced by approximately 40% in chronically epileptic rats. The lessening of neuronal numbers in both regions was mainly due to the loss of GABAergic neurons (80-97% reduction in medial and lateral septum). In contrast, populations of cholinergic and glutamatergic neurons were spared. Overall, these data indicate that septal GABAergic neurons are selectively vulnerable to hippocampal hyperexcitability, and suggest that the processing of information in septohippocampal networks may be altered in chronic epilepsy.
We have recently demonstrated that application of mustard oil (MO), a small-fiber excitant and inflammatory irritant, to the rat maxillary molar tooth pulp induces central sensitization that is reflected in changes in spontaneous activity, mechanoreceptive field (RF) size, mechanical activation threshold, and responses to graded mechanical stimuli applied to the neuronal RF in trigeminal brainstem subnucleus caudalis and subnucleus oralis. The aim of this study was to test whether central sensitization can be induced in nociceptive neurons of the posterior thalamus by MO application to the pulp. Single unit neuronal activity was recorded in the ventroposterior medial nucleus (VPM) or posterior nuclear group (PO) of the thalamus in anesthetized rats, and nociceptive neurons were classified as wide dynamic range (WDR) or nociceptive-specific (NS). MO application to the pulp was studied in 47 thalamic nociceptive neurons and found to excite over 50% of the 35 VPM neurons tested and to produce significant long-lasting (over 40 min) increases in spontaneous activity, cutaneous pinch RF size and responses to graded mechanical stimuli, and a decrease in threshold in the 29 NS neurons tested; a smaller but statistically significant increase in mean spontaneous firing rate and decrease in activation threshold occurred following MO in the six WDR neurons tested. Vehicle application to the pulp did not produce any significant changes in six VPM NS neurons tested. MO application to the pulp produced pronounced increases in spontaneous activity, pinch RF size, and responses to mechanical stimuli, and a decrease in threshold in three of the six PO neurons. In conclusion, application of the inflammatory irritant MO to the tooth pulp results in central sensitization of thalamic nociceptive neurons and this neuronal hyperexcitability likely contributes to the behavioral consequences of peripheral inflammation manifesting as pain referral, hyperalgesia and allodynia.
Studies in congenitally blind and bilaterally enucleated individuals show that an early loss of sensory driven activity can lead to massive functional reorganization. However, the anatomical substrate for this functional reorganization is unknown. In the present study, we examined patterns of corticocortical and thalamocortical connections in adult opossums that had been bilaterally enucleated neonatally, prior to the formation of retinogeniculate and geniculocortical connections. We show that in addition to normal thalamocortical projection patterns from visual nuclei, enucleated animals also receive input from nuclei associated with the somatosensory (ventral posterior nucleus, VP), auditory (medial geniculate nucleus, MGN), motor (ventrolateral nucleus, VL), and limbic/hippocampal systems (anterior dorsal nucleus, AD; and anterior ventral nucleus, AV). Likewise, in addition to normal corticocortical projections to area 17, bilaterally enucleated opossums also receive input from auditory, somatosensory, and multimodal cortex. These aberrant patterns of thalamocortical and corticocortical connections can account for alterations in functional organization observed in the visual cortex of bilateral enucleated animals, and indicate that factors extrinsic to the cortex play a large role in cortical field development and evolution. On the other hand, the maintenance of normal patterns of connections in the absence of visual input suggests that there are formidable constraints imposed on the developing cortex that highly restrict the types of evolutionary change possible.
Excessive accumulation of alpha synuclein (a-syn) in the brain has been implicated in several degenerative neurological disorders, most notably Parkinson's disease. The aggregation of a-syn is the major component of intraneuronal inclusions, Lewy bodies, which are neuropathological features, observed in Parkinson's disease, Lewy body dementia, and other synucleopathies. Diverse cellular events can contribute to a-syn accumulation, aggregation, and to subsequent Lewy body formation. These factors include genetic mutations of synuclein, parkin, or the deubiquitinating enzyme, ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase (UCH-L1), leading to reduced clearance of a-syn by the ubiquitin proteasomal pathway (UPP). Furthermore, intracellular insults include environmental factors and an age-related decrement in antioxidant defense systems that increase oxidative stress and can affect either the accumulation or clearance of a-syn. We have dynamically modeled a-syn processing in normal and in several disease states; focusing upon alterations in the aggregation and clearance of a-syn as influenced by the UPP and the oxidative stress pathways. Simulation of increased oxidative stress generates a free radical profile analogous to that reported in vivo following exposure to the neurotoxin, 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). Varying model parameters of oxidative stress, UPP dysfunction, or both pathways, simulate kinetics of a-syn that corresponds with the neuropathology described for the sporadic and genetic forms of Parkinson's disease. This in silico model provides a mathematical framework that enables kinetic appraisal of pathway components to better identify and validate important pharmacological targets.
Using Drosophila mutants and pharmacological blockers, we provide the first evidence that distinct types of K(+) channels differentially influence sub-cellular Ca(2+) regulation and growth cone morphology during neuronal development. Fura-2-based imaging revealed in cultured embryonic neurons that the loss of either voltage-gated, inactivating Shaker channels or Ca(2+)-gated Slowpoke BK channels led to robust spontaneous Ca(2+) transients that preferentially occurred within the growth cone. In contrast, loss of voltage-gated, non-inactivating Shab channels did not show such a disparity and sometimes produced soma-specific Ca(2+) transients. The fast spontaneous transients in both the soma and growth cone were suppressed by the Na(+) channel blocker tetrodotoxin, indicating that these Ca(2+) fluctuations stemmed from increases in membrane excitability. Similar differences in regional Ca(2+) regulation were observed upon membrane depolarization by high K(+)-containing saline. In particular, Shaker and slowpoke mutations enhanced the size and dynamics of the depolarization-induced Ca(2+) increase in the growth cone. In contrast, Shab mutations greatly prolonged the Ca(2+) increase in the soma. Differential effects of these excitability mutations on neuronal development were indicated by their distinct alterations in growth cone morphology. Loss of Shaker currents increased the size of lamellipodia and the number of filopodia, structures associated with the actin cytoskeleton. Interestingly, loss of Slowpoke currents strongly influenced tubulin regulation, enhancing the number of microtubule loop structures per growth cone. Together, our findings support the idea that individual K(+) channel subunits differentially regulate spontaneous sub-cellular Ca(2+) fluctuations in growing neurons that may influence activity-dependent growth cone formation.
Many studies have demonstrated a role for netrin-1-deleted in colorectal cancer (DCC) interactions in both axon guidance and neuronal migration. Neogenin, a member of the DCC receptor family, has recently been shown to be a chemorepulsive axon guidance receptor for the repulsive guidance molecule (RGM) family of guidance cues [Rajagopalan S, Deitinghoff L, Davis D, Conrad S, Skutella T, Chedotal A, Mueller B, Strittmatter S (2004) Neogenin mediates the action of repulsive guidance molecule. Nat Cell Biol 6:755-762]. Here we show that neogenin is present on neural progenitors, including neurogenic radial glia, in the embryonic mouse forebrain suggesting that neogenin expression is a hallmark of neural progenitor populations. Neogenin-positive progenitors were isolated from embryonic day 14.5 forebrain using flow cytometry and cultured as neurospheres. Neogenin-positive progenitors gave rise to neurospheres displaying a high proliferative and neurogenic potential. In contrast, neogenin-negative forebrain cells did not produce long-term neurosphere cultures and did not possess a significant neurogenic potential. These observations argue strongly for a role for neogenin in neural progenitor biology. In addition, we also observed neogenin on parvalbumin- and calbindin-positive interneuron neuroblasts that were migrating through the medial and lateral ganglionic eminences, suggesting a role for neogenin in tangential migration. Therefore, neogenin may be a multi-functional receptor regulating both progenitor activity and neuroblast migration in the embryonic forebrain.
Voltage-dependent and calcium-activated K(+) (MaxiK, BK) channels are ubiquitously expressed and have various physiological roles including regulation of neurotransmitter release and smooth muscle tone. Coexpression of the pore-forming alpha (hSlo) subunit of MaxiK channels with a regulatory beta1 subunit (KCNMB1) produces noninactivating currents that are distinguished by high voltage/Ca(2+) sensitivities and altered pharmacology [McManus OB, Helms LM, Pallanck L, Ganetzky B, Swanson R, Leonard RJ (1995) Functional role of the beta subunit of high conductance calcium-activated potassium channels. Neuron 14:645-650; Wallner M, Meera P, Ottolia M, Kaczorowski G, Latorre R, Garcia ML, Stefani E, Toro L (1995) Characterization of and modulation by a beta-subunit of a human maxi K(Ca) channel cloned from myometrium. Receptors Channels 3:185-199]. We now show that beta1 can regulate hSlo traffic as well, resulting in decreased hSlo surface expression. beta1 subunit expressed alone is able to reach the plasma membrane; in addition, it exhibits a distinct intracellular punctated pattern that colocalizes with an endosomal marker. Coexpressing beta1 subunit with hSlo, switches hSlo's rather diffuse intracellular expression to a punctate cytoplasmic localization that overlaps beta1 expression. Furthermore, coexpressed beta1 subunit reduces steady-state hSlo surface expression. Site-directed mutagenesis underscores a role of a putative endocytic signal at the beta1 C-terminus in the control of hSlo surface expression. We propose that aside from its well-established role as regulator of hSlo electrical activity, beta1 can regulate hSlo expression levels by means of an endocytic mechanism. This highlights a new beta1 subunit feature that regulates hSlo channels by a trafficking mechanism.
Activation of dopamine D1 or glutamate, N-methyl-d-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptors in the basolateral amygdala (BLA) can potently influence affective behaviors and associative learning. Physical protein-protein interactions also can occur between C-terminal peptides of D1 receptors and the NMDA-receptor subunit-1 (NR1), suggesting intracellular associations of direct relevance to dopaminergic modulation of NMDA currents. We examined this possibility by combining electron microscopic immunolabeling of the D1 and NR1 C-terminal peptides with in vitro patch-clamp recording in the rat BLA. In the in vivo preparations, D1 and NR1 were localized to the surface or endomembranes of many of the same somata and dendrites as well as a few axon terminals, including those forming asymmetric, excitatory-type synapses. In vitro analysis of physiologically characterized projection neurons revealed an excitatory response to bath application of either dopamine or the preferential D1 receptor agonist, dihydrexidine. In these neurons, dopamine also selectively reduced stimulation-evoked isolated NMDA receptor-mediated currents, but not isolated non-NMDA receptor-mediated currents or the response to exogenous NMDA application. The selective reduction of the NMDA receptor-mediated currents suggests that this effect occurs at a postsynaptic locus. Moreover, both D1 and NR1 were localized to postsynaptic surfaces of biocytin-filled and physiologically characterized projection neurons. Our results provide ultrastructural evidence for D1/NR1 endomembrane associations that may dynamically contribute to the attenuation of NMDA receptor-mediated currents following prior activation of D1 receptors in BLA projection neurons. The potential for postsynaptic cross-talk between D1 and NMDA receptors in BLA projection neurons as well as a similar interaction in presynaptic terminals could have important implications for the formation and extinction of affective memories.
The cochlear nucleus is the first central pathway involved in the processing of peripheral auditory activity. The anterior ventral cochlear nucleus (AVCN), posterior ventral cochlear nucleus (PVCN) and dorsal cochlear nucleus (DCN) each contain predominant populations of neurons that have been well characterized regarding their morphological and electrophysiological properties. Little is known, however, of the underlying genetic factors that contribute to these properties and the initial steps in auditory processing. Serial analysis of gene expression (SAGE), supported by microarray experiments, was performed on each subdivision of the rat cochlear nucleus to identify genes that may sub-serve specialized roles in the central auditory system. Pair-wise comparisons between SAGE libraries from the AVCN, PVCN and DCN were correlated with microarray experiments to identify individual transcripts with significant differential expression. Twelve highly correlated genes were identified representing cytoskeletal, vesicular, metabolic and g-protein regulating proteins. Among these were Rgs4 which showed higher expression in the DCN, Sst and Cyp11b1 with very high expression in the AVCN and Calb2 with preferential expression in the PVCN. The differential expression of these genes was validated with real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. These experiments provide a basis for understanding normal auditory processing on a molecular level and a template for investigating changes that may occur in the cochlear nucleus with hearing loss, the generation and percept of tinnitus, and central auditory processing disorders.
Amyloid beta-protein (Abeta) increases apolipoprotein E (apoE) levels in astrocytes which could alter lipid trafficking. The mechanism for the Abeta-induced increase in apoE levels is not well understood. It is well established that stimulation of beta-adrenergic receptors (betaARs) increases cAMP levels. Elevation of cAMP levels increases apoE abundance. The current study determined if Abeta(1-42) stimulation of cAMP and apoE levels could be inhibited by betaAR antagonists in astrocytes. We demonstrate that Abeta(1-42) but not the reverse protein Abeta(42-1) or Abeta(1-40) stimulated cAMP formation and this stimulation was inhibited by selective betaAR antagonists in mouse primary cortical astrocytes. Abeta(1-42) significantly increased apoE levels which were significantly inhibited by the betaAR selective antagonists with the greatest inhibition observed with the beta(2) antagonist. Separate lines of evidence have suggested that agonist-induced stimulation of betaARs and increases in apoE abundance may serve a neuroprotective role in astrocytes. Our results indicate a potential interaction between betaARs and apoE which may contribute to reducing Abeta(1-42) neurotoxicity.
The chick optic tectum displays an alternating pattern of cellular and plexiform layers and at embryonic day (ED) 12 there are mainly four cellular layers: transient cell compartment 3 (TCC3), compartment &quot;h-i-j&quot;(C&quot;h-i-j&quot;), stratum griseum centrale (SGC) and subventricular zone (SvZ). In the present work we characterized the programmed cell death (PCD) of these layers and their vulnerability to acute hypoxia at ED12, and also identified the main cellular type involved in hypoxic cell death. The colocalization of three independent markers of cell degeneration: pyknotic nuclei by Hoechst staining, fragmented DNA by TdT-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL), and presence of active caspase-3 by immunofluorescence, was analyzed in embryos that developed in normoxic conditions (control embryos) and embryos that were subjected to hypoxia (8% O(2)/92% N(2)) for 60 min (hypoxic embryos), followed by 0-12 h of normoxic recovery. In control embryos cell death rate within each layer was constant through time, but there were significant differences (P&lt;0.01) in cell death rates among the different layers. In contrast, in hypoxic embryos, a significant increase (P&lt;0.01) in cell death rate was observed in layers TCC3, C&quot;h-i-j&quot; and SGC. This change was evident only at 6 h post-hypoxia, and at later time points cell death rate was similar to control values. Each of these layers had a different vulnerability to the hypoxic event while the SvZ layer was not affected. In addition, the significant colocalization between the neuron specific nuclear protein (NeuN) and TUNEL signal showed that hypoxia affected primarily neurons. In conclusion, our findings demonstrate that in the chick optic tectum at ED12, PCD is layer dependent and that acute hypoxia causes a transient increase in neuronal death in a delayed fashion, which is also layer dependent. The morphological features of the neuronal death process at the light microscope level resembled apoptosis.
Intermittent hypoxia induces 5-HT-dependent, pattern-sensitive long-term facilitation (LTF) of spinal respiratory motor output. We used a split-bath in vitro neonatal rat brainstem-spinal cord preparation to test whether: 1) intermittent spinal 5-HT exposure (without hypoxia) is sufficient to induce LTF in phrenic and intercostal inspiratory motor outputs; 2) LTF magnitude is greater in intercostal versus phrenic activity; and 3) phrenic and intercostal motor output exhibits differential pattern sensitivity to 5-HT application. With a barrier at spinal segment C1, 5-HT (5 muM) was applied episodically (3 min 5-HT, 5 min wash, x3) to the spinal cord (C2-L1) while recording inspiratory bursts in cervical (C4 or C5) and thoracic (T5 or T6) ventral roots. Episodic 5-HT application increased cervical and thoracic burst amplitudes to 136+/-22% and 150+/-22% of baseline, respectively, at 120 min post-drug (P&lt;0.01). Continuous 5-HT application (5 muM, 9 min) had no effect on cervical burst amplitude at 120 min post-drug, but increased thoracic burst amplitude to 142+/-11% of baseline at 120 min post-drug (P&lt;0.001). Methysergide pretreatment abolished both cervical and thoracic 5-HT-induced LTF. Quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction and immunocytochemistry revealed that 5-HT(2A) and 5-HT(7) receptor subtypes (receptors known to influence LTF expression in adult rats) are expressed in ventral cervical and thoracic spinal cord with no differences in expression levels due to spinal segment or age. Thus, 5-HT is sufficient to induce spinal LTF in neonatal rats and differences in pattern sensitivity suggest heterogeneity in underlying mechanisms.
In visual cortices of cats there are two major, largely parallel, feedforward processing streams which conduct visual information from the primary visual cortices to the parietal and temporal visual cortices, processing motion and form information, respectively. In addition to the feedforward streams, there exist many feedback projections from higher-order visual cortices to lower-order visual cortices. Using the intrinsic signal optical imaging, this study has examined the influence of feedback signals originating from area posteromedial lateral suprasylvian (PMLS), the dominant motion-processing region of the parietal cortex, on responses of neurons, orientational maps, and directional maps in cats' area 17 (striate cortex). The inactivation of area PMLS by local application of GABA resulted in the reduction of the magnitude of responses of area 17 cells though area 17 of the cat is mainly involved in form information processing rather than motion. Furthermore, inactivation of area PMLS abolished the global layout of direction maps in area 17 but did not affect the basic structure of the orientation maps in area 17. Thus, it appears that higher-order cortical areas along one information processing stream may exert cross-stream modulatory effects on fundamental properties of neurons located in the lower-order areas along distinct information processing streams.
Spatial relationships between clusters of corticothalamic (CT) large terminals originating from cortical domains tuned to different frequencies were examined by pair-injecting two different anterograde tracers. Large-terminal CT projection originating from layer 5 was highly divergent with each injection site producing, on average, 15 local clusters distributing throughout non-lemniscal thalamic nuclei following a single anterograde tracer injection in the cat primary auditory cortex. Paired injections in higher- and lower-frequency cortical domains, resulting in labeling of two independent sets of terminal clusters, showed five recognizable patterns of spatial interaction between them. (1) In the ventral division of the medial geniculate complex (vMGC), sheet-like plexuses of small terminals of different origins were situated in parallel, with minimal overlap. (2) Extensive overlap of two low-density plexuses of differently labeled small terminals was observed in the medial division of the medial geniculate complex (MGC). (3) At the transition zones between the vMGC and the superficial dorsal nucleus of the MGC dorsal division, and between the vMGC and the ventrolateral nucleus, there were relatively broad clusters of a high density of large-terminal structures from the two cortical domains, which overlapped extensively. (4) At multiple loci in the nonlemniscal nuclei, pairing of two small clusters of differently labeled large terminals was observed. (5) Small unpaired clusters of large terminals were also found in the nonlemniscal nuclei. For large terminals, approximately 14%, 59%, and 27% clusters per injection demonstrated patterns 3, 4, and 5, respectively. The results provide evidence for the precise topographical organization for the large-terminal CT system at the microscopic level despite its highly divergent projection. This microtopographical projection from the tonotopic cortical field to non-tonotopic thalamic nuclei may raise the possibility of presence of a map that has not been defined in auditory non-lemniscal thalamic nuclei yet.
The role of voltage-gated Ca(2+) (Ca(V)) channels in pain mechanisms has been the object of intense investigation using pharmacological approaches and, more recently, using mutant mouse models lacking the Ca(V)alpha(l) pore-forming subunit of N-, R- and T-type channels. The role of P/Q-type channels in nociception and pain transmission has been investigated by pharmacological approaches but remains to be fully elucidated. To address this issue, we have analyzed pain-related behavioral responses of null mutant mice for the Ca(V)2.1alpha(1) subunit of P/Q-type channels. Homozygous null mutant Ca(V)2.1alpha(1)-/- mice developed dystonia at 10-12 days after birth and did not survive past weaning. Tested at ages where motor deficit was either absent or very mild, Ca(V)2.1alpha(1)-/- mice showed reduced tail withdrawal latencies in the tail-flick test and reduced abdominal writhes in the acetic acid writhing test. Adult heterozygous Ca(V)2.1alpha(1)+/- mice did not show motor deficits in the rotarod and activity cage tests and did not show alterations in pain responses in the tail-flick test and the acetic acid writhing test. Strikingly, they showed a reduced licking response during the second phase of formalin-induced inflammatory pain and a reduced mechanical allodynia in the chronic constriction injury model of neuropathic pain. Our findings show that P/Q-type channels play an antinociceptive role in sensitivity to non-injurious noxious thermal stimuli and a pronociceptive role in inflammatory and neuropathic pain states, pointing to an important role of Ca(V)2.1 channels in central sensitization.
Group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) have been implicated in learning and memory formation. Recent findings indicate an important function of the group I mGluR subtype 5. Here, we used the Y-maze spatial alternation task and examined whether enhancement of intrinsic mGluR5 activity immediately after learning, i.e. during a critical period for memory consolidation, would have any consequences on long-term memory retention in rats. Intracerebroventricular application of the allosteric mGluR5 potentiator DFB (3,3'-difluorobenzaldazine) resulted in a marked improvement in spatial alternation retention when it was tested 24 h after training. The promnesic effect increased with the difficulty of the task and was apparently due to a substantial enhancement of consolidation. The applied dose of DFB did not cause behavioral changes in the open field, and was devoid of structural side-effects as evaluated by immunohistochemical examination. Our results suggest an important function of post-training mGluR5 activation in some types of hippocampus-dependent spatial learning.
The monoamine neurotransmitter serotonin is released from spinal terminals of nucleus raphe magnus (NRM) neurons and important in sensory and motor control, but its pattern of release has remained unclear. Serotonin was measured by the high-resolution method of fast cyclic voltammetry (2 Hz) with carbon-fiber microelectrodes in lumbar segments (L3-L6) of halothane-anesthetized rats during electrical stimulation of the NRM. Because sites of serotonin release are often histologically remote from membrane transporters and receptors, rapid emergence into aggregate extracellular space was expected. Increased monoamine oxidation currents were found in 94% of trials of 50-Hz, 20-s NRM stimulation across all laminae. The estimated peak serotonin concentration averaged 37.8 nM (maximum 287 nM), and was greater in dorsal and ventral laminae (I-III and VIII-IX) than in intermediate laminae (IV-VI). When measured near NRM-evoked changes, basal monoamine levels (relative to dorsal white matter) were highest in intermediate laminae, while changes in norepinephrine level produced by locus ceruleus (LC) stimulation were lowest in laminae II/III and VII. The NRM-evoked monoamine peak was linearly proportional to stimulus frequency (10-100 Hz). The peak often occurred before the stimulus ended (mean 15.6 s at 50 Hz, range 4-35 s) regardless of frequency, suggesting that release per impulse was constant during the rise but fell later. The latency from stimulus onset to electrochemical signal detection (mean 4.2 s, range 1-23 s) was inversely correlated with peak amplitude and directly correlated with time-to-peak. Quantitative modeling suggested that shorter latencies mostly reflected the time below detection threshold (5-10 nM), so that extrasynaptic serotonin was significantly elevated well within 1 s. Longer latencies (&gt;5 s), which were confined to intermediate laminae, appeared mainly to be due to diffusion from distant sources. In conclusion, except possibly in intermediate laminae, serotonergic volume transmission is a significant mode of spinal control by the NRM.
We investigated the role and mechanisms of inflammatory responses within the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) in the development of chemogenic pathological pain. DRG inflammation was induced by a single deposit of the immune activator zymosan in incomplete Freund's adjuvant in the epidural space near the L5 DRG via a small hole drilled through the transverse process. After a single zymosan injection, rats developed bilateral mechanical hyperalgesia and allodynia which began by day 1 after surgery, peaked at days 3-7, and lasted up to 28 days. The number of macrophages in ipsilateral and contralateral DRGs increased significantly, lasting over 14 days. Robust glial activation was observed in inflamed ganglia. Cytokine profile analysis using a multiplexing protein array system showed that, in normal DRG, all but interleukin (IL)-5, IL-10 and granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF) were detectable with concentrations of up to 180 pg/mg protein. Local inflammatory irritation selectively increased IL-1beta, IL-6, IL-18, monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1), and growth-related oncogene (GRO/KC) up to 17-fold, and decreased IL-2 and IL-12 (p70) up to threefold. Inflaming the DRG also remarkably increased the incidence of spontaneous activity of A- and C-fibers recorded in the dorsal root. Many of the spontaneously active A-fibers exhibited a short-bursting discharge pattern. Changes in cytokines and spontaneous activity correlated with the time course of pain behaviors, especially light stroke-evoked tactile allodynia. Finally, local inflammation induced extensive sprouting of sympathetic fibers, extending from vascular processes within the inflamed DRG. These results demonstrate the feasibility of inducing chronic localized inflammatory responses in the DRG in the absence of traumatic nerve damage, and highlight the possible contribution of several inflammatory cytokines/chemokines to the generation of spontaneous activity and development and persistence of chemogenic pathologic pain.


Our paper discusses two experimental studies suggesting that Visual Hallucinations (VH) in Parkinson's Disease (PD) may have separate origins. The first is a prospective 8years study evaluating the appearance of VH, visual abnormalities assessed by Visual Evoked Potentials (VEPs) and REM sleep Behaviour Disorder (RBD), in 80 PD patients treated with l-Dopa and Dopaminoagonists (DA). In chronically treated, cognitively unimpaired, PD patients VH were statistically related (p=0.001) to RBD occurrence and high DA doses. Visual abnormalities were significantly reduced by l-Dopa or DA intake, and were statistically unrelated to VH. The second study involved PD patients placed in a Virtual Reality Environment, to decontextualize visual input. When motor symptoms worsened and VEP abnormalities developed patients consistently described hallucinatory dysperceptions of the virtual environment. The two studies therefore show that VH can occur in two seemingly distinct conditions, one is related to chronic treatment and to a sleep disorder frequently observed in PD, the other is probably related to a hypodopaminergic state. Our studies support a recently proposed integrative model of VH, and show that the neural circuits purported to explain VH must include the retinal dopaminergic system and the REM sleep regulatory system.
Sequence learning, a cognitive task linked to cortico-striatal function, is impaired in Parkinson's disease (PD). We chose this task as a behavioral paradigm to study the functional architecture of PD in treated and untreated conditions. In our studies, participants were scanned with H(2)(15)O while performing a kinematically controlled motor sequence learning task and a matching motor baseline task. Experiments revealed that a specific sequence learning network predicts learning in normal subjects, and in independent cohorts of early and advanced PD patients. The analysis of the relationship of network activity to learning performance revealed diverging influences of dopaminergic therapy and deep brain stimulation (DBS). DBS of the internal GP and of STN increased network activity and task performance, while levodopa decreased both measures. In separate studies, we investigated the role of dopaminergic modulation on brain activation during sequence learning. In healthy subjects dopamine transporter (DAT) binding correlated with learning-related brain activation in prefrontal, premotor and cingulate cortices, and in the thalamus. By contrast, in PD most of these regional relationships were lost. Only ventral and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex activation correlated with caudate dopaminergic input. In a final set of studies, we found a significant decline in learning performance in early stage PD patients followed over the course of 2 years. Longitudinal declines in learning-related activation were found in parietal areas, while concomitant increases were localized to the left hippocampus. These observations support hypotheses on disease-stage and task-specific effects within the different cortico-striato-pallido-thalamocortical loops and the mesocortical system in PD.
The left hemisphere of the human cerebral cortex is dominant for processing rapid acoustic stimuli, including speech, and this specialized activity is preceded by processing in the auditory brainstem. It is not known to what extent the integrity of brainstem encoding of speech impacts patterns of asymmetry at cortex. Here, we demonstrate that the precision of temporal encoding of speech in auditory brainstem predicts cerebral asymmetry for speech sounds measured in a group of children spanning a range of language skills. Results provide strong evidence that timing deficits measured at the auditory brainstem negatively impact rapid acoustic processing by specialized structures of cortex, and demonstrate a delicate relationship between cortical activation patterns and the temporal integrity of cortical input.
Olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs) have been reported to migrate long distances and to bridge lesion sites, guiding axonal regeneration after spinal cord injury (SCI). To understand mechanisms of OEC migration and axonal guidance, we injected lamina propria OECs 1 mm rostral and caudal to C4 SCI sites. One month later, OECs formed an apparent migrating cell tract continuously extending from the injection site through the lesion, physically bridging the lesion. Confocal immunolabeling demonstrated that, whereas this cell tract displaced host astrocytes, descending or ascending long tract axons did not preferentially extend into the cell tract and OECs failed to support bridging of corticospinal axons. Notably, the &quot;bridging&quot; tract of OECs formed within 1 h of cell injection, raising the possibility that cells passively spread from the pressure injection site rather than actively migrating. Control injections of bone marrow stromal cells (MSCs) or fibroblasts 1 mm from the lesion site also rapidly dispersed into the lesion cavity. Cell tracts extending into the lesion site were not seen when cells were injected either at low volumes, into spinal cord gray matter, or 3 d before or 9 d after SCI. OECs proliferated in injection sites, cell tracts, and lesion sites, indicating that OECs can also accumulate through cell proliferation. Thus, OECs do not appear to exhibit significant migratory properties when grafted to the spinal cord, exhibit no detectable difference in promoting axon growth into a SCI site compared with MSCs or fibroblasts, and do not support bridging of corticospinal axons beyond a dorsal column lesion.
To get insight into the mechanisms that may lead to progression of temporal lobe epilepsy, we investigated gene expression during epileptogenesis in the rat. RNA was obtained from three different brain regions [CA3, entorhinal cortex (EC), and cerebellum (CB)] at three different time points after electrically induced status epilepticus (SE): acute phase [group D (1 d)], latent period [group W (1 week)], and chronic epileptic period [group M (3-4 months)]. A group that was stimulated but that had not experienced SE and later epilepsy was also included (group nS). Gene expression analysis was performed using the Affymetrix Gene Chip System (RAE230A). We used GENMAPP and Gene Ontology to identify global biological trends in gene expression data. The immune response was the most prominent process changed during all three phases of epileptogenesis. Synaptic transmission was a downregulated process during the acute and latent phases. GABA receptor subunits involved in tonic inhibition were persistently downregulated. These changes were observed mostly in both CA3 and EC but not in CB. Rats that were stimulated but that did not develop spontaneous seizures later on had also some changes in gene expression, but this was not reflected in a significant change of a biological process. These data suggest that the targeting of specific genes that are involved in these biological processes may be a promising strategy to slow down or prevent the progression of epilepsy. Especially genes related to the immune response, such as complement factors, interleukins, and genes related to prostaglandin synthesis and coagulation pathway may be interesting targets.
Both genetic and environmental factors are involved in the pathogenesis of Parkinsonos disease (PD). Epidemiological studies showed that environmental factors shared with the common mechanisms of resulting in alpha-synuclein aggregation by inhibiting complex I of mitochondria and leading to oxidative stress. To investigate the relationship between alpha-synuclein and oxidative stress, we used human dopaminergic SH-SY5Y cells transfected with alpha-synuclein-enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP). alpha-synuclein gene expression was determined by immunocytochemistry and real-time quantitative PCR. Both SH-SY5Y and alpha-synuclein overexpressed SH-SY5Y (SH-SY5Y/Syn) cells were treated with various concentrations of rotenone for different time. Cell viability and oxidative stress were detected by MTT assay and DCF assay. Superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity was assessed with xanthine peroxidase method. Cell apoptosis was detected with flow cytometry. Results showed that alpha-synuclein gene was constantly overexpressed in SH-SY5Y/Syn cells. After treatment with rotenone, both cell viability and complex I activity in these cells were reduced in a concentration-dependent manner. Oxidative stress was also found in these cells. Compared with SH-SY5Y cells, SOD activity in SH-SY5Y/Syn cells was increased distinctly (P&lt;0.05) and alpha-synuclein significantly attenuated rotenone-induced cell apoptosis. These results suggest that the alpha-synuclein overexpression in SH-SY5Y cells has a tendency to partially resist oxidative stress induced by rotenone and this response may assist cell survival.
Predicting time of food availability is key for survival in most animals. Under restricted feeding conditions, this prediction is manifested in anticipatory bouts of locomotor activity and body temperature. This process seems to be driven by a food-entrainable oscillator independent of the main, light-entrainable clock located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the hypothalamus . Although the SCN clockwork involves self-sustaining transcriptional and translational feedback loops based on rhythmic expression of mRNA and proteins of clock genes , the molecular mechanisms responsible for food anticipation are not well understood. Period genes Per1 and Per2 are crucial for the SCN's resetting to light . Here, we investigated the role of these genes in circadian anticipatory behavior by studying rest-activity and body-temperature rhythms of Per1 and Per2 mutant mice under restricted feeding conditions. We also monitored expression of clock genes in the SCN and peripheral tissues. Whereas wild-type and Per1 mutant mice expressed regular food-anticipatory activity, Per2 mutant mice did not show food anticipation. In peripheral tissues, however, phase shifts of clock-gene expression in response to timed food restriction were comparable in all genotypes. In conclusion, a mutation in Per2 abolishes anticipation of mealtime, without interfering with peripheral synchronization by feeding cycles.
Humans can perceive the shape of objects by touch alone, by extracting geometric features such as edges. Recently recorded responses of single neurons in the secondary somatosensory cortex of monkeys suggest how the brain integrates tactile shape information across different regions of skin and builds up a representation of tactile objects.
Theories about the evolutionary path that led to the neuronal network underlying human language have long generated much heat without light. Using PET imaging, a recent study suggests that monkeys share a circuit for vocal perception with humans, adding some empirical data to the debate.
Cell death of neural progenitor cells is the primary problem limiting the value of neural progenitor cell-based therapy for central nervous system disorders. However, little is known about the mechanism of cell death of neural progenitor cells. In this study, we investigated the mechanisms of cell death of a multipotent cell line, MEB5, caused by deprivation of epidermal growth factor (EGF). When EGF was removed from the culture medium, the total number of viable MEB5 cells reduced, and nuclear condensation and elevation of caspase-3-like enzyme activity were observed in MEB5 cells. Treatment with a broad-range caspase inhibitor reduced cell death in a concentration-dependent manner, indicating that MEB5 cells undergo caspase-mediated apoptotic cell death caused by EGF deprivation. We also investigated the effects of glutamate receptor antagonists, antioxidants and nitric oxide synthase inhibitor on EGF deprivation-induced cell death. N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) glutamate receptor antagonists, alpha-amino-3-hydrozy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) glutamate receptor antagonist and nitric oxide synthase inhibitor failed to reduce cell death. In contrast, two antioxidants with different chemical structures reduced cell death in a concentration-dependent manner. The production of reactive oxygen species was detected in MEB5 cells after EGF deprivation by monitoring dichlorodihydrofluorescein fluorescence as a marker of reactive oxygen species-related radicals. Our results suggest that oxidative stress triggers caspase-mediated apoptosis of neural progenitor cells by trophic support deprivation.
RY-080 (ethyl 8-ethynyl-5,6-dihydro-5-methyl-6-oxo-4H-imidazo[1,5-a][1,4]benzodiazepine-3-carboxylate) is an imidazobenzodiazepine with 40-50-fold higher affinity for the benzodiazepine binding site of alpha5- rather than alpha1-, alpha2- or alpha3-containing GABAA receptors. Previous data describing RY-080 as being convulsant suggests that inverse agonists selective for the alpha5 subtype may not be suitable for clinical development. In the present study, we show that RY-080 possesses inverse agonism for the alpha1 and alpha5 subtypes of human recombinant GABAA receptors and whilst not convulsant it was proconvulsant. Hence, with pentylenetetrazole alone, the dose predicted to give tonic convulsions in 50% of the mice (ED50) was 108 mg/kg whereas in the presence of 1 and 10 mg/kg RY-080, the ED50s were 93 and 57 mg/kg, respectively. In vivo [3H]L-655,708 and [3H]Ro 15-1788 binding assays showed that the subtype selectivity of RY-080 in vivo was 7-10-fold for alpha5-relative to alpha1- and alpha2/alpha3-containing receptors (respective ID50 values of 0.93, 9.7 and 6.2 mg/kg) and is therefore much lower than seen in vitro. Consequently, it is not possible to define a dose of RY-080 which gives high occupancy of the alpha5 subtype without binding to other subtypes and accordingly the proconvulsant effects of RY-080 cannot be attributed solely to the alpha5 subtype.
More than a decade has passed since apolipoprotein E4 (APOE-epsilon4) was identified as a primary risk factor for Alzheimer 's disease (AD), yet researchers are even now struggling to understand how the apolipoprotein system integrates into the puzzle of AD etiology. The specific pathological actions of apoE4, methods of modulating apolipoprotein E4-associated risk, and possible roles of apoE in normal synaptic function are still being debated. These critical questions will never be fully answered without a complete understanding of the life cycle of the apolipoprotein receptors that mediate the uptake, signaling, and degradation of apoE. The present review will focus on apoE receptors as modulators of apoE actions and, in particular, explore the functions of soluble apoE receptors, a field almost entirely overlooked until now.
The cellular basis for cognitive deficits in HIV+ patients with and without a history of methamphetamine (METH) use is unclear. We found that HIV+ METH users had more severe loss of interneurons that was associated with cognitive impairment. Compared with other markers, loss of calbindin and parvalbumin interneurons in the frontal cortex was the most significant correlate to memory deficits, suggesting a role in neurobehavioral alterations of HIV+ METH users.

Present noninvasive neuroimaging methods measure neuronal activity indirectly, via either cerebrovascular changes or extracranial measurements of electrical/magnetic signals. Recent studies have shown evidence that MRI may be used to directly and noninvasively map electrical activity associated with human brain activation, but results are inconclusive. Here, we show that MRI can detect cortical electrical activity directly. We use organotypic rat-brain cultures in vitro that are spontaneously active in the absence of a cerebrovascular system. Single-voxel magnetic resonance (MR) measurements obtained at 7 T were highly correlated with multisite extracellular local field potential recordings of the same cultures before and after blockade of neuronal activity with tetrodotoxin. Similarly, for MR images obtained at 3 T, the MR signal changed solely in voxels containing the culture, thus allowing the spatial localization of the active neuronal tissue.

In the present study, dopamine release was monitored during cannabinoid self-administration in rats to achieve a detailed understanding of the way in which dopamine mediates the reinforcing effects of cannabinoids. Extracellular dopamine levels were measured in the shell of the nucleus accumbens of either Lister Hooded or Long Evans rats trained to self-administer the cannabinoid CB1 receptor agonist WIN 55,212-2. A significant relationship between extracellular dopamine levels and bar-pressing rates was observed in both strains, as the dopamine content appreciably increased in respect to basal values during cannabinoid intake. Importantly, dopamine was not modified when trained rats were shifted to vehicle self-administration suggesting that an enhanced activity of the mesolimbic dopamine pathway underlies cannabinoid-taking behaviour.
The commissure of the inferior colliculus is significant as the final point of interconnection between homologous structures on the two sides of the auditory pathway at the subcortical level. The presence of excitatory fibres is well established in this tract, but the existence of an inhibitory component is controversial. Using rats, we injected biotinylated dextran amine into the inferior colliculus on one side to retrogradely label cells projecting through the commissure from the contralateral inferior colliculus. Immunocytochemistry for gamma-amino-n-butyric acid in neighbouring semithin sections revealed that 20% of biotinylated dextran amine cell profiles were also labelled for gamma-amino-n-butyric acid. We conclude that monosynaptic inhibitory connections contribute to the inhibition observed in the contralateral inferior colliculus in functional studies of the commissural projection.
When we look at our spatial environment we have the feeling that the whole visual field is coloured, yet the density of cone photoreceptors decreases considerably as eccentricity increases. We investigated colour perception (coloured/noncoloured), colour naming and whether colour helps object recognition at eccentricities varying from 0 degrees to 80 degrees in healthy observers and patients with low vision. We found that colours can be perceived and even identified above chance at very large eccentricities (60 degrees). When asked to categorize coloured and grey level objects as edible/nonedible, both healthy observers and patients with low vision showed better performance for coloured edible objects at 50 degrees suggesting that colour is used for object recognition in conditions of degraded form perception.
Prevalence of Alzheimer's disease in Indian population is lower than in developed countries. To determine whether limitation of amyloid beta (Abeta) concentration may be responsible for lower rate of incidence, we measured the levels of Abeta in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) collected from 72 non-demented individuals ranging in the age from 20 years to 65 years. These samples were segregated into three groups ranging from 20-35 years, 36-50 years and 51-65 years of age. Levels of Abeta could be detected in all the age groups and they were much lower than the values reported in literature from the developed countries. No significant difference in the average level of Ass was observed with increase in age.
Non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonists, in addition to their neuroprotective potential, possess neurotoxic properties and induce seizures and psychosis. MK-801 induces cytoplasmic vacuoles and heat shock protein in pyramidal neurones in the rodent posterior cingulate and retrosplenial cortex. The mechanism of this neurotoxicity is unclear, involving many neurotransmitter systems. The aim of this study was to investigate the role of cholinergic pathways from the nucleus basalis of Meynert in mediating MK-801-induced neurotoxicity. Cholinergic projections from the nucleus basalis of Meynert were lesioned by focal injection of 192-IgG-saporin (80 ng), which after 7 days reduced the number of cholinergic cell bodies by 70% in the lesioned nucleus compared to the uninjected nucleus. Following a unilateral cholinergic lesion, MK-801 (5 mg/kg s.c.) induced expression of hsp72 mRNA (6 h) and HSP72 protein immunoreactivity (24 h) was reduced by 42 and 60%, respectively in the ipsilateral compared to the contralateral posterior cingulate. Despite this apparent protective effect, the unilateral cholinergic lesion did not affect the degree of neuronal vacuolation (6 h), necrosis (24 h) or the large and prolonged increase in cerebral blood flow which occurred over the first 9h following MK-801 administration. These results demonstrate that cholinergic neurones in the nucleus basalis of Meynert play an important role in the heat shock response to NMDA antagonist-induced neurotoxicity but also reveal an unexpected divergence between the heat shock response and the pathophysiological response. This suggests that other cholinergic pathways or non-cholinergic mechanisms are responsible for the pathological changes induced by MK-801.


Reelin is a large molecule of the extracellular matrix (ECM) which regulates neuronal positioning during the early stages of cortical development in vertebrate species. The Reelin molecule can be subdivided into a smaller N-terminal domain, showing homology with F-spondin, and a larger C-terminal region containing 8 EGF-like repeats. The localization of Reelin in the ECM, its large dimensions and the modular organization of its primary structure led us to suppose a structure of its modules similar to domains commonly found in ECM proteins such as Agrin, laminins and thrombospondins. We therefore performed a sequence alignment and molecular modeling analysis to study the three-dimensional fold of the Reelin subrepeat regions. Our analysis produces a tentative model of the core region of the Reelin subrepeat sequences and suggests the presence in this 3D model of structural features common to polysaccharide-binding modules which are often found on proteoglycans of the ECM. These findings provide a conceptual framework for further experiments aimed at testing the functions of the EGF-like repeat regions of Reelin.
In rats trained to reliably self-administer cocaine, the cumulative drug level was calculated during sessions in which cocaine was administered either contingently or non-contingently. During both types of sessions a high rate of responding was observed only when cocaine levels were above the priming threshold but below the satiety threshold. When the levels of non-contingently administered cocaine were maintained between the priming and satiety thresholds for at least 5 h rats continuously maintained high rates of responding. Although it is generally assumed that rats are responding for cocaine during self-administration sessions, the persistence of responding during non-contingent administration is consistent with responding being induced by cocaine. Therefore, in contrast to the basic assumptions underlying the operant theory of self-administration behavior, choice, contingency and reinforcement are not necessary to explain acquired cocaine self-administration. The presented data demonstrate that there is no ascending limb of the dose-response curve and that the cocaine priming and satiety thresholds delineate the lower and upper limits, respectively, of a cocaine &quot;compulsion zone&quot;. It is concluded that the self-administration paradigm is the sum of cocaine induced responding and cocaine induced satiety and which of these cocaine-induced effects occur at any time is dependent on the cocaine level. This novel pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic theory provides a basis for a comprehensive understanding of the cocaine self-administration paradigm.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a prevalent and inheritable neurodevelopmental disorder. Recent human genetic studies are consistent with the homeobox transcription factor, ENGRAILED 2 (EN2), being an ASD susceptibility gene. En2 knockout mice (En2(-/-)) display subtle cerebellar neuropathological changes similar to what has been observed in the ASD brain. To investigate whether En2(-/-) mice displayed abnormal behavior relevant to ASD, they were monitored in tasks designed to assess social maturation as well as learning and memory. Deficits in social behavior were detected in En2(-/-) mice across maturation that included decreased play, reduced social sniffing and allogrooming, and less aggressive behavior. Deficits in two spatial learning and memory tasks were also observed. Because locomotor activity was a component of many of the behavioral tasks, this was measured at various stages of development. Locomotor activity was not compromised in the knockout. However, a more thorough analysis of motor behavior in En2(-/-) mice revealed deficits in specific motor tasks. To determine whether neurochemical changes were associated with these behavioral phenotypes, monoamine levels in specific brain regions were assessed. A cerebellar-specific increase in serotonin and its metabolite was observed. Interestingly, several reports have suggested that the serotonin pathway is affected in ASD. We conclude that En2(-/-) mice display behavioral and neurochemical changes, in addition to genetic and neuropathological changes, relevant to ASD. Therefore, these mice may be useful as an animal model of autism.
Mutations in the gene encoding otoferlin are known to cause deafness, but the mechanism is unclear. In this issue, Roux et al. (2006) demonstrate that otoferlin interacts with SNARE molecules at the afferent synapses of cochlear inner hair cells to trigger exocytosis of neurotransmitter.
Although spatial patterning during embryonic development is well characterized, a corresponding framework for temporal patterning has not been established. In this issue, Zhu et al. (2006) identify the Chinmo protein as conferring temporal identity on the neural progeny of Drosophila neuroblasts, revealing appealing parallels with spatial patterning.
Given that science is a collaborative endeavor, architects are striving to design new research buildings that not only provide a more pleasant work space but also facilitate interactions among researchers.
As these paired Commentaries discuss, neuroscientists and architects are just beginning to collaborate, each bringing what they know about their respective fields to the task of improving the environment of research buildings and laboratories.
Gamma-secretase is one of the critical enzymes required for the generation of amyloid-beta peptides from the beta-amyloid precursor protein. Because amyloid-beta peptides are generally accepted to play a key role in Alzheimer disease, gamma-secretase inhibition holds the promise for a disease-modifying therapy for this neurodegenerative condition. Although recent progress has enhanced the understanding of the biology and composition of the gamma-secretase enzyme complex, less information is available on the actual interaction of various inhibitor classes with the enzyme. Here we show that the two principal classes of inhibitor described in the scientific and patent literature, aspartyl protease transition state analogue and small molecule non-transition state inhibitors, display fundamental differences in the way they interact with the enzyme. Taking advantage of a gamma-secretase enzyme overexpressing cellular system and different radiolabeled gamma-secretase inhibitors, we observed that the maximal binding of non-transition state gamma-secretase inhibitors accounts only for half the number of catalytic sites of the recombinant enzyme complex. This characteristic stoichiometry can be best accommodated with a model whereby the non-transition state inhibitors bind to a unique site at the interface of a dimeric enzyme. Subsequent competition studies confirm that this site appears to be targeted by the main classes of small molecule gamma-secretase inhibitor. In contrast, the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug gamma-secretase modulator sulindac sulfide displayed noncompetitive antagonism for all types of inhibitor. This finding suggests that non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug-type gamma-secretase modulators target an alternative site on the enzyme, thereby changing the conformation of the binding sites for gamma-secretase inhibitors.
Acetylcholine can affect cognitive functions and reward, in part, through activation of muscarinic receptors in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) to evoke changes in mesocorticolimbic dopaminergic transmission. Among the known muscarinic receptor subtypes present in the VTA, the M2 receptor (M2R) is most implicated in autoregulation and also may play a heteroreceptor role in regulation of the output of the dopaminergic neurons. We sought to determine the functionally relevant sites for M2R activation in relation to VTA dopaminergic neurons by examining the electron microscopic immunolabeling of M2R and the dopamine transporter (DAT) in the VTA of rat brain. The M2R was localized to endomembranes in DAT-containing somatodendritic profiles but showed a more prominent, size-dependent plasmalemmal location in nondopaminergic dendrites. M2R also was located on the plasma membrane of morphologically heterogenous axon terminals contacting unlabeled as well as M2R- or DAT-labeled dendrites. Some of these terminals formed asymmetric synapses resembling those of cholinergic terminals in the VTA. The majority, however, formed symmetric, inhibitory-type synapses or were apposed without recognized junctions. Our results provide the first ultrastructural evidence that the M2R is expressed, but largely not available for local activation, on the plasma membrane of VTA dopaminergic neurons. Instead, the M2R in this region has a distribution suggesting more indirect regulation of mesocorticolimbic transmission through autoregulation of acetylcholine release and changes in the physiological activity or release of other, largely inhibitory transmitters. These findings could have implications for understanding the muscarinic control of cognitive and goal-directed behaviors within the VTA.
Many lines of evidence suggest that mitochondria have a central role in ageing-related neurodegenerative diseases. Mitochondria are critical regulators of cell death, a key feature of neurodegeneration. Mutations in mitochondrial DNA and oxidative stress both contribute to ageing, which is the greatest risk factor for neurodegenerative diseases. In all major examples of these diseases there is strong evidence that mitochondrial dysfunction occurs early and acts causally in disease pathogenesis. Moreover, an impressive number of disease-specific proteins interact with mitochondria. Thus, therapies targeting basic mitochondrial processes, such as energy metabolism or free-radical generation, or specific interactions of disease-related proteins with mitochondria, hold great promise.
We tested the involvement of cognition in adult experience-dependent neuroplasticity using primate cortical implants. In a prior study, learning an operant sensory discrimination increased cortical excitability and target selectivity. Here, the prior task was separated into three behavioral phases. First, naive animals were exposed to stimulus-reward pairings from the prior study. These yoked animals did not have to discriminate to be rewarded and did not learn the discrimination. The plasticity observed in the prior study did not occur. Second, the animals were classically conditioned to discriminate the same stimuli in a simplified format. Learning was accompanied by increased sensory response strength and an increased range of sensory inputs eliciting responses. The third study recreated the original operant discrimination, and selectivity for task targets increased. These studies demonstrate that cognitive association between sensory stimuli and reinforcers accompanies adult experience-dependent cortical plasticity and suggest that selectivity in representation and action are linked.
The mechanisms that give rise to ocular dominance columns (ODCs) during development are controversial. Early experiments indicated a key role for retinal activity in ODC formation. However, later studies showed that in those early experiments, the retinal activity perturbation was initiated after ODCs had already formed. Moreover, recent studies concluded that early eye removals do not impact ODC segregation. Here we blocked spontaneous retinal activity during the very early stages of ODC development. This permanently disrupted the anatomical organization of ODCs and led to a dramatic increase in receptive field size for binocular cells in primary visual cortex. Our data suggest that early spontaneous retinal activity conveys crucial information about whether thalamocortical axons represent one or the other eye and that this activity mediates binocular competition important for shaping receptive fields in primary visual cortex.
Information storage in neural circuits depends on activity-dependent alterations in synaptic weights, such as long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD). Bidirectional synaptic plasticity endows synapses with mechanisms for rapid reversibility, but it remains unclear how it correlates with reversibility in behavioral learning and whether there is a universal synaptic memory mechanism that operates similarly at all types of synapses. A recently discovered postsynaptic form of LTP at cerebellar parallel fiber (PF)-Purkinje cell (PC) synapses provides a reversal mechanism for PF-LTD and enables a fresh look at the implications of bidirectional plasticity in a brain structure that is particularly suitable to correlate cellular to behavioral learning events. Here, we will review recent studies that reveal unique properties of bidirectional cerebellar plasticity and suggest that the induction cascades for cerebellar LTP and LTD provide a mirror image of their counterparts at hippocampal synapses. We will also discuss how PF-LTP helps to explain reversibility observed in cerebellar motor learning.
Insulin insufficiency has multiple actions on the CNS. Three weeks after streptozotocin-induced diabetes in rats, we found a preferential downregulation of l-[(3)H]glutamate-labeled NMDA receptors in primary sensory cortical regions. Layers I-III of the parietal cortex and superficial piriform cortex were the most sensitive followed by other cortical regions and, in turn, deeper brain structures. These effects on NMDA receptors can potentially explain some of the known CNS effects of diabetes.

Notch is the receptor in a signalling pathway that operates in a diverse spectrum of developmental processes. Its ligands (e.g. Serrate) are transmembrane proteins whose signalling competence is regulated by the endocytosis-promoting E3 ubiquitin ligases, Mindbomb1 and Neuralized. The ligands also inhibit Notch present in the same cell (cis-inhibition). Here, we identify two conserved motifs in the intracellular domain of Serrate that are required for efficient endocytosis. The first, a dileucine motif, is dispensable for trans-activation and cis-inhibition despite the endocytic defect, demonstrating that signalling can be separated from bulk endocytosis. The second, a novel motif, is necessary for interactions with Mindbomb1/Neuralized and is strictly required for Serrate to trans-activate and internalise efficiently but not for it to inhibit Notch signalling. Cis-inhibition is compromised when an ER retention signal is added to Serrate, or when the levels of Neuralized are increased, and together these data indicate that cis-inhibitory interactions occur at the cell surface. The balance of ubiquitinated/unubiquitinated ligand will thus affect the signalling capacity of the cell at several levels.
This study identifies novel mechanisms of Hes5 function in developmental myelination. We report here upregulation of myelin gene expression in Hes5-/- mice compared to wild-type siblings and downregulation in overexpressing progenitors. This effect was only partially explained by the ability to regulate the levels of Mash1 and bind to N boxes in myelin promoters, as deletion of the DNA-binding domain of Hes5 did not suppress its inhibitory role on myelin gene expression. Novel mechanisms of Hes5 function in the oligodendrocyte lineage include the regulation of feedback loops with the cell-specific transcriptional activator Sox10. In progenitors with low levels of Sox10, Hes5 further decreases the bioavailability of this protein by transcriptional inhibition and direct sequestration of this activator. Increasing levels of Sox10 in progenitors, in turn, bind to Hes5 and titrate out its inhibitory effect by sequestration and displacement of the repressive complexes from myelin promoters. Thus, Hes5-dependent modulation of myelin gene expression involves old players (i.e. Mash1) and novel mechanisms of transcriptional regulation that include cell-specific regulatory loops with transcriptional activators (i.e. Sox10).
Disruptions in brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression are proposed to contribute to the molecular pathogenesis of Rett syndrome (RTT), a severe neurological disorder caused by loss-of-function mutations in methyl-CpG-binding protein-2 (MeCP2). Although MeCP2 is a transcriptional regulator of BDNF, it is unknown how MeCP2 mutations affect transsynaptic BDNF signaling. Our findings demonstrate an early, abnormal neurosecretory phenotype in MeCP2-deficient neurons characterized by significant increases in the percentage of cellular BDNF content available for release. However, loss of MeCP2 also results in deficits in total cell BDNF content that are developmentally regulated in a cell-type-specific manner. Thus, the net effect of MeCP2 loss on absolute BDNF secretion changes with age and is determined by both the amount of BDNF available for release and progressive declines in total cellular BDNF. We propose, therefore, that loss of MeCP2 function disrupts transsynaptic BDNF signaling by perturbing the normal balance between BDNF protein levels and secretion. However, mutant neurons are capable of secreting wild-type levels of BDNF in response to high-frequency electrical stimulation. In addition, we found elevated exocytic function in Mecp2(-/y) adrenal chromaffin cells, indicating that the Mecp2 null mutation is associated with alterations of neurosecretion that are not restricted to BDNF. These findings are the first examples of abnormal neuropeptide and catecholamine secretion in a mouse model of RTT.
Voltage-dependent channel block by external Mg2+ (Mg2+(o)) of NMDA receptors is an essential determinant of synaptic function. The resulting Mg2+(o) inhibition of NMDA responses depends strongly on receptor subunit composition: NR1/2A and NR1/2B receptors are more strongly inhibited by Mg2+(o) than are NR1/2C or NR1/2D receptors. Previous work showed that permeant ions have profound effects on Mg2+(o) block of NMDA receptors composed of NR1, NR2A, and NR2B subunits. Whether permeant ions affect Mg2+(o) inhibition of NR1/2C or NR1/2D receptors is unknown. We investigated the effects of permeant ions on Mg2+(o) block of NR1/2D receptors by integrating results from whole-cell recordings, single-channel recordings, and kinetic modeling. Lowering internal [Cs+] caused a voltage-dependent decrease in the Mg2+(o) IC50 and in the apparent Mg2+(o) unblocking rate, and increase in the apparent Mg2+(o) blocking rate (k(+,app)) of NR1/2D receptors. Lowering external [Na+] caused modest voltage-dependent changes in the Mg2+(o) IC50 and k(+,app). These data can be explained by a kinetic model in which occupation of either of two external permeant ion binding sites prevents Mg2+(o) entry into the channel. Occupation of an internal permeant ion binding site prevents Mg2+(o) permeation and accelerates Mg2+(o) unblock to the external solution. We conclude that variations in permeant ion site properties shape the NR2 subunit dependence of Mg2+(o) block. Furthermore, the external channel entrance varies little among NMDA receptor subtypes. Differences in the Mg2+(o) blocking site, and particularly in the selectivity filter and internal channel entrance, are principally responsible for the subunit dependence of Mg2+(o) block.
What determines where synapses will form along an axon or how proteins are deposited at nascent synapses remains unknown. Here, we show that the initial formation of presynaptic terminals occurs preferentially at predefined sites within the axons of cortical neurons. Time-lapse imaging of synaptic vesicle protein transport vesicles (STVs) indicates that STVs pause repeatedly at these sites, even in the absence of neuronal or glial contact. Contact with a neuroligin-expressing non-neuronal cell induces formation of presynaptic terminals specifically at these STV pause sites. Remarkably, formation of stable contacts with dendritic filopodia also occurs selectively at STV pause sites. Although it is not yet known which molecules comprise the predefined sites, STV pausing is regulated by cues that affect synaptogenesis. Overall, these data are consistent with the hypothesis that regulation of STV pausing might be an important mechanism for accumulation of presynaptic proteins at nascent synapses and support a new model in which many en passant synapses form specifically at predefined sites in young axons.
Previous studies have shown that cortical stimulation selectively activates extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) phosphorylation and immediate early gene expression in striatal GABAergic enkephalinergic neurons. In the present study, we demonstrate that blockade of adenosine A2A receptors with caffeine or a selective A2A receptor antagonist counteracts the striatal activation of cAMP-protein kinase A cascade (phosphorylation of the Ser845 residue of the glutamate receptor 1 subunit of the AMPA receptor) and mitogen-activated protein kinase (ERK1/2 phosphorylation) induced by the in vivo stimulation of corticostriatal afferents. The results indicate that A2A receptors strongly modulate the efficacy of glutamatergic synapses on striatal enkephalinergic neurons.
In addition to its involvement in motor control and in encoding reward value, increasing evidence also implicates basal ganglia dopaminergic mechanisms in responses to stress and aversive stimuli. Basal ganglia dopamine (DA) neurotransmission may then respond to environmental events depending on their saliency, orienting the subsequent responses of the organism to both positive and negative stimuli. Here we examined the involvement of DA neurotransmission in the human response to pain, a robust physical and emotional stressor across species. Positron emission tomography with the DA D2 receptor antagonist radiotracer [11C]raclopride detected significant activation of DA release in dorsal and ventral regions of the basal ganglia of healthy volunteers. Activation of nigrostriatal (dorsal nucleus caudate and putamen) DA D2 receptor-mediated neurotransmission was positively associated with individual variations in subjective ratings of sensory and affective qualities of the pain. In contrast, mesolimbic (nucleus accumbens) DA activation, which may impact on both D2 and D3 receptors, was exclusively associated with variations in the emotional responses of the individual during the pain challenge (increases in negative affect and fear ratings). These data demonstrate that basal ganglia dopamine D2 receptor-mediated neurotransmission is involved in responses to pain and that it contributes to individual variations in the pain experience at the levels of physical and emotional elements, albeit with different neuroanatomical substrates.
The identities of some of the constituents of the hair-cell transduction apparatus have been elucidated only recently. The molecular motor myosin-1c (Myo1c) functions in adaptation of the hair-cell response to sustained mechanical stimuli and is therefore an integral part of the transduction complex. Recent data indicate that Myo1c interacts in vitro with two other molecules proposed to be important for transduction: cadherin 23 (Cdh23), a candidate for the stereociliary tip link, and phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP2), which is abundant in the membranes of hair-cell stereocilia. It is not known, however, whether these interactions occur in hair cells. Using an in situ binding assay on saccular hair cells, we demonstrated previously that Myo1c interacts with molecules at stereociliary tips, the site of transduction, through sequences contained within its calmodulin (CaM)-binding neck domain, which can bind up to four CaM molecules. In the current study, we identify the second CaM-binding IQ domain as a region of Myo1c that mediates CaM-sensitive binding to stereociliary tips and to PIP2 immobilized on a solid support. Binding of Myo1c to stereociliary tips of cochlear and vestibular hair cells is disrupted by treatments that break tip links. In addition, Myo1c does not bind to stereocilia from mice whose hair cells lack Cdh23 protein despite the presence of PIP2 in the stereociliary membranes. Collectively, our data suggest that Myo1c and Cdh23 interact at the tips of hair-cell stereocilia and that this interaction is modulated by CaM.
Malformations of the neocortex are a common cause of human epilepsy; however, the critical issue of how disturbances in cortical organization render neurons epileptogenic remains controversial. The present study addressed this issue by studying inhibitory structure and function before seizure onset in the telencephalic internal structural heterotopia (tish) rat, which is a genetic model of heightened seizure susceptibility associated with a prominent neocortical malformation. Both normally positioned (normotopic) and misplaced (heterotopic) pyramidal neurons in the tish neocortex exhibited lower resting membrane potentials and a tendency toward higher input resistance compared with pyramidal neurons from control brains. GABAergic synaptic transmission was attenuated in the tish cortex, characterized by significant reductions in the frequency of spontaneous IPSCs (sIPSCs) and miniature IPSCs recorded from pyramidal neurons. In addition, the amplitudes of sIPSCs were reduced in the tish neocortex, an effect that was more profound in the normotopic cells. Immunohistochemical assessment of presynaptic GABAergic terminals showed a reduction in terminals surrounding pyramidal cell somata in normotopic and heterotopic tish neocortex. The attenuation of inhibitory innervation was more prominent for normotopic neurons and was associated with a reduction in a subset of GABAergic interneurons expressing the calcium-binding protein parvalbumin. Together, these findings indicate that key facets of inhibitory GABAergic neurotransmission are disturbed before seizure onset in a brain predisposed to developing seizures. Such alterations represent a rational substrate for reduced seizure thresholds associated with certain cortical malformations.
The pudendal motor system is constituted by striated muscles of the pelvic floor and the spinal motoneurons that innervate them. It plays a role in eliminative functions of the bladder and intestine and in sexual function. Pudendal motoneurons are located in the ventral horn of the caudal lumbar spinal cord and send their axon into the pudendal nerve. In the rat, binding sites for vasopressin and tachykinin are present in the dorsomedial and dorsolateral pudendal nuclei, suggesting that these neuropeptides may affect pudendal motoneurons. The aim of the present study was to investigate possible effects of vasopressin and tachykinins on these motoneurons. Recordings were performed in spinal cord slices of young male rats using the whole-cell patch-clamp technique. Before recording, motoneurons were identified by 1,1'-dilinoleyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethylindocarbocyanine, 4-chlorobenzenesulfonate retrograde labeling. The identification was confirmed, a posteriori, by choline acetyltransferase immunocytochemistry. Vasopressin and tachykinins caused a powerful excitation of pudendal motoneurons. The peptide-evoked depolarization, or the peptide-evoked inward current, persisted in the presence of tetrodotoxin, indicating that these effects were mainly postsynaptic. By using selective receptor agonists and antagonist, we determined that vasopressin acted via vasopressin 1a (V1a), but not V1b, V2, or oxytocin receptors, whereas tachykinins acted via neurokinin 1 (NK1), but not NK2 or NK3, receptors. Vasopressin acted by enhancing a nonselective cationic conductance; in some motoneurons, it also probably suppressed a resting K+ conductance. Our data show that vasopressin and tachykinins can excite pudendal motoneurons and thus influence the force of striated perineal muscles involved in eliminative and sexual functions.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging was used to study patients with chronic neuropathic pain involving the maxillary region (V2) of the trigeminal nerve in patients with spontaneous pain and evoked pain to brush (allodynia). Patients underwent two functional scans (2-3 months apart) with mechanical and thermal stimuli applied to the affected region of V2 and to the mirror site in the unaffected contralateral V2 region, as well as bilaterally to the mandibular (V3) division. Patients were stimulated with brush, noxious cold, and noxious heat. Significant changes were observed in regions within and outside the primary trigeminal sensory pathway. Stimulation to the affected (neuropathic) side resulted in predominantly frontal region and basal ganglia activation compared with the control side. The differences were consistent with the allodynia to brush and cold. A region of interest-based analysis of the trigeminal sensory pathway revealed patterns of activation that differentiated between the affected and unaffected sides and that were particular to each stimulus. Activation in the spinal trigeminal nucleus was constant in location for all pain stimuli. Activation in other brainstem nuclei also showed differences in the blood oxygenation level-dependent signal for the affected versus the unaffected side. Thus, sensory processing in patients with trigeminal neuropathic pain is associated with distinct activation patterns consistent with sensitization within and outside of the primary sensory pathway.



Fine movement in the body is controlled by the motor cortex, which signals in a topographically specific manner to neurons in the spinal cord by means of the corticospinal tract (CST). How the correct topography of the CST is established is unknown. To investigate the possibility that the Eph tyrosine kinase receptor EphA4 is involved in this process, we have traced CST axons in mice in which the EphA4 gene has been deleted. The forelimb subpopulation of CST axons is unaffected in the EphA4-/- mice, but the hindlimb subpopulation branches too early within the cord, both temporally and spatially. EphA4 shows a dynamic expression pattern in the environment of the developing CST in the spinal cord: high at the time of forelimb branching and down-regulated before hindlimb branching. To examine whether the fore- and hindlimb subpopulations of CST axons respond differently to EphA4 in their environment, neurons from fore- and hindlimb motor cortex were cultured on a substrate containing EphA4. Neurons from the hindlimb cortex showed reduced branching on the EphA4 substrate compared with their forelimb counterparts. Neurons from the hindlimb cortex express ephrinA5, a high-affinity ligand for EphA4, at higher levels compared with forelimb cortex neurons, and this expression is down-regulated before hindlimb branching. Together, these findings suggest that EphA4 regulates topographic mapping of the CST by controlling the branching of CST axons in the spinal cord.

A central notion in the study of texture segregation is that of feature gradient (or feature contrast). In orientation-based texture segregation, orientation gradients have indeed played a fundamental role in explaining behavioral results. Here, however, we show that general, smoothly varying, orientation-defined textures (ODTs) exhibit striking perceptual singularities that are completely unpredictable from orientation gradients. These singularities defy not only popular texture segregation theories but also virtually all computational segmentation methods, and they confound previous behavioral studies with smoothly varying ODTs. We provide psychophysical evidence that perceptual singularities in smooth ODTs are salient visual features consistent across observers and with significant effect on the perception and segregation of oriented textures. We further show that, although orientation gradients cannot predict them, perceptual singularities in smooth ODTs emerge directly from, and can be spatially localized by, two ODT curvatures. Given the traditional role of feature gradients in early vision, the significance of these findings extends well beyond orientation-based texture segregation to issues ranging from curve integration and fragment grouping, through the perception of 3D shape, to the functional organization of the primary visual cortex.
Humans often sacrifice material benefits to endorse or to oppose societal causes based on moral beliefs. Charitable donation behavior, which has been the target of recent experimental economics studies, is an outstanding contemporary manifestation of this ability. Yet the neural bases of this unique aspect of human altruism, which extends beyond interpersonal interactions, remain obscure. In this article, we use functional magnetic resonance imaging while participants anonymously donated to or opposed real charitable organizations related to major societal causes. We show that the mesolimbic reward system is engaged by donations in the same way as when monetary rewards are obtained. Furthermore, medial orbitofrontal-subgenual and lateral orbitofrontal areas, which also play key roles in more primitive mechanisms of social attachment and aversion, specifically mediate decisions to donate or to oppose societal causes. Remarkably, more anterior sectors of the prefrontal cortex are distinctively recruited when altruistic choices prevail over selfish material interests.
Human tests designed to mirror rodent tests of object recognition and spatial navigation were administered to adult cognitively healthy humans. Facial recognition was also assessed. There was no sex difference in facial recognition, consistent with earlier studies. In the object recognition test, the test-retest NINL total scores during the same visit were highly correlated, comparable to the test-retest correlations obtained in the established facial recognition test. There were no effects of sex on object recognition. However, in the spatial navigation test, there were effects of sex on spatial learning and memory during the session with the hidden, but not visible, target. These tests might be useful to compare assessments of object recognition and spatial learning and memory in humans and animal models.
The medium spiny neurons (MSNs) of the nucleus accumbens function in a critical regard to examine and integrate information in the processing of rewarding behaviors. These neurons are aberrantly affected by drugs of abuse, including alcohol. However, ethanol is unlike any other common drug of abuse, due to its pleiotropic actions on intracellular and intercellular signaling processes. Intracellular biochemical pathways appear to critically contribute to long-term changes in the level of synaptic activation of these neurons, which have been implicated in ethanol dependence. Additionally, these neurons also display a fascinating pattern of up/down activity, which appears to be, at least in part, regulated by convergent activation of dopaminergic and glutamatergic (NMDA) inputs. Thus, dopaminergic and NMDA receptor-mediated synaptic transmission onto these neurons may constitute a critical site of ethanol action in mesolimbic structures. For instance, dopaminergic inputs alter the ability of ethanol to regulate NMDA receptor-mediated synaptic transmission onto accumbal MSNs. Prior activation of D1-signaling cascade through the cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein-32kD (DARPP-32) and protein phosphatase-1 (PP-1) pathway significantly attenuates ethanol inhibition of NMDA receptor function. Therefore, the interaction of D1-signaling and NMDA receptor signaling may alter NMDA receptor-dependent long-term synaptic plasticity, contributing to the development of ethanol-induced neuroadaptation of the reward pathway.
Exactly 100 years ago, the Nobel Prize for Physiology and Medicine was awarded to Santiago Ramn y Cajal, &quot;in recognition of his meritorious work on the structure of the nervous system&quot;. Cajal's great contribution to the history of science is undoubtedly the postulate of neuron theory. The present work makes a historical analysis of the circumstances in which Cajal formulated his theory, considering the authors and works that influenced his postulate, the difficulties he encountered for its dissemination, and the way it finally became established. At the time when Cajal began his neurohistological studies, in 1887, Gerlach's reticular theory (a diffuse protoplasmic network of the grey matter of the nerve centres), also defended by Golgi, prevailed among the scientific community. In the first issue of the Revista Trimestral de Histologa Normal y Patolgica (May, 1888), Cajal presented the definitive evidence underpinning neuron theory, thanks to staining of the axon of the small, star-shaped cells of the molecular layer of the cerebellum of birds, whose collaterals end up surrounding the Purkinje cell bodies, in the form of baskets or nests. He thus demonstrated once and for all that the relationship between nerve cells was not one of continuity, but rather of contiguity. Neuron theory is one of the principal scientific conquests of the 20th century, and which has withstood, with scarcely any modifications, the passage of more than a 100 years, being reaffirmed by new technologies, as the electron microscopy. Today, no neuroscientific discipline could be understood without recourse to the concept of neuronal individuality and nervous transmission at a synaptic level, as basic units of the nervous system.
In an attempt to delineate the prefrontal cortex (PFC) in the Gttingen minipig brain the distribution of reciprocal thalamocortical projections was investigated using anterograde and retrograde tracing techniques and evaluated in relation to the specific cytoarchitectonic organization. Tracers were visualized using standard immunohistochemistry or evaluated in vivo using manganese (Mn2+) as an MRI paramagnetic tracer. The in vivo tract tracing turned out to be very sensitive with a high correspondence to the histological labelling. Tracers injected into the mediodorsal thalamus labelled the medial and rostral pole of the frontal lobe as well as the anterior cingulate, anterior insular and dorsomedial frontal cortices. Subsequently, the reciprocity and specificity of these connections were tested from injections into the traced frontal cortices indicating that the PFC has cortical connections to different parts of the MD nucleus. Although the granular layer IV, characteristic of primate PFC could not be identified, both cytoarchitectonic and connectional data suggests that the Gttingen minipig has a structurally divided prefrontal cortex. Stereological estimates of PFC volume showed that the Gttingen minipig PFC constitutes about 24% of the total neocortex volume and 10% of the total brain volume.
Heat shock proteins are ubiquitous members of a family of molecular chaperones that protect various cell populations from injury. Up-regulation of heat shock proteins, particularly the 70 kDa species, bind selectively to denatured or partially damaged polypeptides that would otherwise perturb cell function and initiate cell death programs. In this regard, induction of heat shock proteins provides protection from cerebral ischemia in animal models of stroke. Endothelial cells, in particular, are intimately involved in the above protective event as these cells mount a stress response with induction of the 70 kDa heat shock protein. However, the coupling of heat shock proteins and the neurovascular response are not yet known. Here we show that blood content is an important factor in this stress response as rats devoid of blood content do not display a heat shock response in the microvasculature of the hippocampal formation. This lack of stress response, however, is reversed when rats are reperfused with exogenous rat or human blood content. We propose a new ischemic-sensing role for blood that serves to integrate information about protein-damaging conditions and heat shock protein levels in the neurovascular network. Further characterization of this sensing role could represent an attractive new approach to treatment of global ischemia and other microvascular pathologies.
Label-free detection of molecular interactions has considerable potential in facilitating assay development. When combined with high throughput capability, it may be applied to small molecule screens for drug candidates. Phosphorylation is a key posttranslational process that confers diverse regulation in biological systems involving specific protein-protein interactions recognizing the phosphorylated motifs. Using a resonant waveguide grating biosensor, the Epic mark System, we have developed a generic assay to quantitatively measure phospho-specific interactions between a trafficking signal-phosphorylated SWTY peptide and 14-3-3 proteins or anti-phosphopeptide antibodies. Compared with a solution-based fluorescence anisotropy assay, our results support that the high throughput resonant waveguide grating biosensor system has favorable technical profiles in detecting protein-protein interactions that recognize phosphorylated motifs. Hence it provides a new generic HTS platform for phospho-detection.
The therapeutic effect of curcumin (CCM), a polyphenolic compound from the rhizome of Curcuma longa, has not yet been examined in glioblastoma. We used human glioblastoma T98G cells to explore the efficacy of CCM for inducing apoptosis and identifying proteolytic mechanisms involved in this process. Trypan blue dye exclusion test showed decrease in cell viability with increasing dose of CCM. Wright staining and ApopTag assay showed, respectively, morphological and biochemical features of apoptosis in T98G cells exposed to 25 microM and 50 microM of CCM for 24 h. Treatment with CCM activated receptor-mediated pathway of apoptosis as Western blotting showed activation of caspase-8 and cleavage of Bid to tBid. Besides, CCM caused an increase in Bax:Bcl-2 ratio, and mitochondrial release of cytochrome c, Second mitochondrial activator of caspases/Direct IAP binding protein with low pI (Smac/Diablo), and apoptosis-inducing-factor (AIF) indicating involvement of mitochondria-mediated pathway as well. Down regulation of the nuclear factor kappa B (NFkappaB), increased expression of inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B alpha (IkappaB alpha), and decreased expression of inhibitor-of-apoptosis proteins (IAPs) such as c-IAP1 and c-IAP2 in T98G cells following CCM treatment suggested suppression of survival signal. Activation of caspase-9 and caspase-3 was detected in generation of 35 kD and 20 kD active fragments, respectively. Calpain and caspase-3 activities cleaved 270 kD alpha-spectrin at specific sites to generate 145 kD spectrin break down product (SBDP) and 120 kD SBDP, respectively. Our results strongly suggest that CCM induced both receptor-mediated and mitochondria-mediated proteolytic mechanisms for induction of apoptosis in T98G cells.






Complex dosing regimens, costs, side effects, biodistribution limitations, and variable drug pharmacokinetic patterns have affected the long-term efficacy of antiretroviral medicines. To address these problems, a nanoparticle indinavir (NP-IDV) formulation packaged into carrier bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMMs) was developed. Drug distribution and disease outcomes were assessed in immune-competent and human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1)-infected humanized immune-deficient mice, respectively. In the former, NP-IDV formulation contained within BMMs was adoptively transferred. After a single administration, single-photon emission computed tomography, histology, and reverse-phase-high-performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC) demonstrated robust lung, liver, and spleen BMMs and drug distribution. Tissue and sera IDV levels were greater than or equal to 50 microM for 2 weeks. NP-IDV-BMMs administered to HIV-1-challenged humanized mice revealed reduced numbers of virus-infected cells in plasma, lymph nodes, spleen, liver, and lung, as well as, CD4(+) T-cell protection. We conclude that a single dose of NP-IDV, using BMMs as a carrier, is effective and warrants consideration for human testing.
During the past years considerable progress has been made in understanding the generation of cell diversity in the neural crest (NC). Sympathoadrenal (SA) cells constitute a major lineage among NC derivatives; they give rise to sympathetic neurons, neuroendocrine chromaffin cells, and the intermediate small intensely fluorescent (SIF) cells. The classic perception of how this diversification is achieved implies that (i) there is a common progenitor cell for sympathetic neurons and chromaffin cells, (ii) NC cells are instructed to a SA cell fate by signals derived from the wall of the dorsal aorta, especially bone morphogenetic proteins (BMP), and (iii) the local environments of secondary sympathetic ganglia and adrenal gland, respectively, are crucial for inducing differentiation of SA cells into sympathetic neurons and adrenal chromaffin cells. However, recent studies have suggested that the adrenal cortex is dispensable for the acquisition of a chromaffin cell fate. This review summarizes the current understanding of the development of SA cells. It covers the specification of SA cells from multipotent NC crest cells, the role of transcription factors during their development, the classic model of their subsequent diversification as well as alternative views for explaining the generation of endocrine versus neuronal SA derivatives.

Behavioral economic analysis has been used to investigate factors underlying drug consumption in laboratory animals and, increasingly, in human drug abusers. However, there are few studies in heroin abusers, especially those who are not in treatment; such studies may be valuable for understanding the mechanisms of persistent drug use. This study investigated effects of unit price (UP) and pre-session supply of hydromorphone (HYD) on choice and consumption of HYD. Heroin-dependent research volunteers (n=13) stabilized on buprenorphine 8 mg/day completed this eight-session inpatient study. In sessions 1-2, participants sampled two total HYD doses (12 and 24 mg IM) that could be earned in later sessions. In each of the final six sessions, volunteers were given access to a 12-trial choice progressive ratio schedule lasting 3h. On each trial, volunteers could earn a HYD unit dose (1 or 2 mg, for a maximum of 12 or 24 mg, respectively) or money (US dollars 2, for a maximum of US dollars 24). Fixed ratio requirements increased exponentially, generating 24 unit prices for behavioral economic analysis. Before some choice sessions, volunteers could choose (FR 1) to receive extra HYD (12 or 24 mg; at 0915), whereas on other days no supplement was available. HYD choice and peak responding (breakpoint, O(max)) measures increased with unit dose, decreased with pre-session supplements, and were greater among volunteers who used cocaine prior to the experiment. Taking pre-session supplements decreased P(max) and made group-percent HYD consumption more demand-elastic. Consumption was functionally equivalent at differing FR/unit dose combinations. Thus, opioid demand in heroin-dependent individuals not in treatment is a function of drug supply, unit price, and cocaine use.
The tight junction (TJ) protein ZO-2 changes its subcellular distribution according to the state of confluency of the culture. Thus in confluent monolayers, it localizes at the TJ region whereas in sparse cultures it concentrates at the nucleus. The canine sequence of ZO-2 displays four putative nuclear export signals (NES), two at the second PDZ domain (NES-0 and NES-1) and the rest at the GK region (NES-2 and NES-3). The functionality of NES-0 and NES-3 was unknown, hence here we have explored it with a nuclear export assay, injecting into the nucleus of MDCK cells peptides corresponding to the ZO-2 NES sequences chemically coupled to ovalbumin. We show that both NES-0 and NES-3 are functional and sensitive to leptomycin B. We also demonstrate that NES-1, previously characterized as a non functional NES, is rendered capable of nuclear export upon the acquisition of a negative charge at its Ser369 residue. Experiments performed injecting at the nucleus WT and mutated ZO-2-GST fusion proteins revealed the need of both NES-0 and NES-1, and NES-2 and NES-3 for attaining an efficient nuclear exit of the respective amino and middle segments of ZO-2. Moreover, the transfection of MDCK cells with full-length ZO-2 revealed that the mutation of any of the NES present in the molecule was sufficient to induce nuclear accumulation of the protein.
Alpha-synuclein is a neuronal protein implicated genetically in Parkinson's disease. alpha-synuclein localizes to the nucleus and presynaptic nerve terminals. Here we show that alpha-synuclein mediates neurotoxicity in the nucleus. Targeting of alpha-synuclein to the nucleus promotes toxicity, whereas cytoplasmic sequestration is protective in both cell culture and transgenic Drosophila. Toxicity of alpha-synuclein can be rescued by administration of histone deacetylase inhibitors in both cell culture and transgenic flies. Alpha-synuclein binds directly to histones, reduces the level of acetylated histone H3 in cultured cells and inhibits acetylation in histone acetyltransferase assays. Alpha-synuclein mutations that cause familial Parkinson's disease, A30P and A53T, exhibit increased nuclear targeting in cell culture. These findings implicate nuclear alpha-synuclein in promoting nigrostriatal degeneration in Parkinson's disease and encourage exploration of histone deacetylase inhibitors as potential therapies for the disorder.
Null mutations in the progranulin gene (PGRN) were recently reported to cause tau-negative frontotemporal dementia linked to chromosome 17. We assessed the genetic contribution of PGRN mutations in an extended population of patients with frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) (N=378). Mutations were identified in 10% of the total FTLD population and 23% of patients with a positive family history. This mutation frequency dropped to 5% when analysis was restricted to an unbiased FTLD subpopulation (N=167) derived from patients referred to Alzheimer's Disease Research Centers (ADRC). Among the ADRC patients, PGRN mutations were equally frequent as mutations in the tau gene (MAPT). We identified 23 different pathogenic PGRN mutations, including a total of 21 nonsense, frameshift and splice-site mutations that cause premature termination of the coding sequence and degradation of the mutant RNA by nonsense-mediated decay. We also observed an unusual splice-site mutation in the exon 1 5' splice site, which leads to loss of the Kozac sequence, and a missense mutation in the hydrophobic core of the PGRN signal peptide. Both mutations revealed novel mechanisms that result in loss of functional PGRN. One mutation, c.1477C&gt;T (p.Arg493X), was detected in eight independently ascertained familial FTLD patients who were shown to share a common extended haplotype over the PGRN genomic region. Clinical examination of patients with PGRN mutations revealed highly variable onset ages with language dysfunction as a common presenting symptom. Neuropathological examination showed FTLD with ubiquitin-positive cytoplasmic and intranuclear inclusions in all PGRN mutation carriers.
Synapsins are synaptic-vesicle-associated phosphoproteins implicated in the regulation of neurotransmitter release and excitability of neuronal networks. Mutation of synapsin genes in mouse and human causes epilepsy. To understand the role of the highly conserved synapsin domain E in the dynamics of release from mammalian inhibitory neurons, we generated mice that selectively overexpress the most conserved part of this domain in cerebellar Purkinje cells. At Purkinje-cell-nuclear-neuron synapses, transgenic mice were more resistant to depression induced by short or prolonged high-frequency stimulations. The increased synaptic performance was accompanied by accelerated release kinetics and shorter synaptic delay. Despite a marked decrease in the total number of synaptic vesicles, vesicles at the active zone were preserved or slightly increased. The data indicate that synapsin domain E increases synaptic efficiency by accelerating both the kinetics of exocytosis and the rate of synaptic vesicle cycling and decreasing depression at the inhibitory Purkinje-cell-nuclear-neuron synapse. These effects may increase the sensitivity of postsynaptic neurons to inhibition and thereby contribute to the inhibitory control of network activity.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an autoimmune disease, showing a great degree of variance in temporal disease activity. We have recently demonstrated that peripheral blood NK cells biased for secreting IL-5 (NK2 bias) are associated with the remission state of MS. In this study, we report that MS patients in remission differentially express CD11c on NK cell surface (operationally defined as CD11chigh or CD11clow). When we compared CD11chigh or CD11clow patients, the expression of IL-5 and GATA-3 in NK cells supposed to endow a disease-protective NK2 phenotype was observed in CD11clow but not in CD11chigh patients. In contrast, the CD11chigh group showed a higher expression of HLA-DR on NK cells. In vitro studies demonstrated that NK cell stimulatory cytokines such as IL-15 would up-regulate CD11c expression on NK cells. Given previous evidence showing an association between an increased level of proinflammatory cytokines and temporal disease activity in MS, we postulate that inflammatory signals may play a role in inducing the CD11chigh NK cell phenotype. Follow-up of a new cohort of patients showed that 6 of 10 CD11chigh MS patients developed a clinical relapse within 120 days after evaluation, whereas only 2 of 13 CD11clow developed exacerbated disease (p = 0.003). As such, a higher expression of CD11c on NK cells may reflect the temporal activity of MS as well as a loss of regulatory NK2 phenotype, which may allow us to use it as a potential biomarker to monitor the immunological status of MS patients.
Neural stem cells reside in the subventricular zone and the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus in adult mammalian brain. In the hippocampus, a number of factors are reported to modulate the rate of neural progenitor proliferation in the hippocampus, such as exercise, corticosteroids, and many pharmacological agents including several classes of antidepressants. It is currently unclear whether this increased proliferation is physiologically relevant, but it provides a potentially useful biomarker to assess novel antidepressant compounds. Changes in neurogenesis are typically quantified by administration of bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) in vivo, and subsequent quantification of labelled nuclei. A robust and rapid means of quantifying BrdU labelling in adult hippocampus in vivo would allow higher throughput screening of potential antidepressant compounds. In this study we describe a FACS-based method for quantification of BrdU labelled cells in fixed cell suspensions from BrdU-treated adult mouse hippocampus. A variety of experimental conditions known to modulate proliferation were tested, including administration of corticosterone and the antidepressants imipramine and fluoxetine. The robust changes compared to control groups observed in these models were similar to previously reported studies, thus offering a more rapid and streamlined means to quantify effects of compounds on hippocampal proliferation.
Slice culture model systems provide a unique opportunity to monitor and lesion brain circuits in a dish. Using a novel approach, we have generated parasagittal slices from mouse brains that preserve, throughout the culture process, the nigrostriatal circuit. These slices can be cultured for approximately 4 weeks with maintenance of normal neuronal cytoarchitecture. Application of the dopamine specific toxin 6-hydroxy dopamine (6-OHDA) induces a significant decline in tyrosine hydroxylase positive cell bodies and fibers. Using a transgenic mouse with green fluorescent protein (GFP) under the control of the tyrosine hydroxylase promoter, we have been able to visualize in real time the loss of GFP expression in the striatum of slices as a result of 6-OHDA exposure. Using these cultures we have demonstrated the feasibility of modeling cellular replacement strategies. GFP-positive embryonic stem cell-derived neuronal precursors can be tracked in real time throughout the experiment and are amenable to patch clamp recording within the slice environment. In addition, cell differentiation can be observed within these slices and the effects of morphogenetic proteins, like the extracellular matrix molecule laminin, drugs or small molecules can be observed. This unique culture system presents a new approach for modeling Parkinson's disease in vitro, and provides a potentially useful new method for screening cell and molecular therapies for neurodegenerative diseases.
We hereby describe a simple and inexpensive approach to evaluate the position and locomotion of rodents in an arena. The system is based on webcam registering of animal behaviour with subsequent analysis on customized software. Based on black/white differentiation, it provides rapid evaluation of animal position over a period of time, and can be used in a myriad of behavioural tasks in which locomotion, velocity or place preference are variables of interest. A brief review of the results obtained so far with this system and a discussion of other possible applications in behavioural neuroscience are also included. Such a system can be easily implemented in most laboratories and can significantly reduce the time and costs involved in behavioural analysis, especially in developing countries.
The relative importance of the intrinsic and extrinsic factors determining the variety of geometric shapes exhibited by dendritic trees remains unclear. This question was addressed by developing a model of the growth of dendritic trees based on diffusion-limited aggregation process. The model reproduces diverse neuronal shapes (i.e., granule cells, Purkinje cells, the basal and apical dendrites of pyramidal cells, and the axonal trees of interneurons) by changing only the size of the growth area, the time span of pruning, and the spatial concentration of 'neurotrophic particles'. Moreover, the presented model shows how competition between neurons can affect the shape of the dendritic trees. The model reveals that the creation of complex (but reproducible) dendrite-like trees does not require precise guidance or an intrinsic plan of the dendrite geometry. Instead, basic environmental factors and the simple rules of diffusive growth adequately account for the spatial embedding of different types of dendrites observed in the cortex. An example demonstrating the broad applicability of the algorithm to model diverse types of tree structures is also presented.
The hippocampus, a key structure for learning and memory processes, receives an important cholinergic innervation and is densely packed with a variety of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) localized on principal cells and interneurons. Activation of these receptors by nicotine or endogenously released acetylcholine enhances activity-dependent synaptic plasticity processes. Deficits in the cholinergic system produce impairment of cognitive functions that are particularly relevant during senescence and in age-related neurodegenerative pathologies. In particular, Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by a selective loss of cholinergic neurons in the basal forebrain and nAChRs in particular regions controlling memory processes such as the cortex and the hippocampus. Field excitatory postsynaptic potentials were recorded in order to examine whether nicotine was able to regulate induction of long-term potentiation at CA3-CA1 synapses in hippocampal slices from adult anti-NGF transgenic mice (AD 11), a comprehensive animal model of AD, in which cholinergic deficits due to nerve growth factor depletion are accompanied by progressive Alzheimer-like neurodegeneration. Both AD 11 and wild-type (WT) mice exhibited short- and long-lasting synaptic plasticity processes that were boosted by nicotine. The effects of nicotine on WT and AD 11 mice were mediated by both alpha7- and beta2-containing nAChRs. In the presence of GABA(A) receptor antagonists, nicotine failed to boost synaptic plasticity in AD 11 but not in WT mice, indicating that in anti-NGF transgenic mice GABAergic interneurons are able to compensate for the deficit in cholinergic modulation of glutamatergic transmission. This compensation may occur at different levels and may involve the reorganization of the GABAergic circuit. However, patch-clamp whole-cell recordings from principal cells failed to reveal any change in spontaneous release of GABA following pressure application of nicotine to nearby GABAergic interneurons. Together, these experiments indicate that in AD 11 mice a rearrangement of the GABAergic circuit can 'rescue' nicotine-induced potentiation of synaptic plasticity. This may be relevant for developing proper therapeutic tools useful for the treatment of AD.
Recollection and familiarity represent two processes involved in episodic memory retrieval. We investigated how scopolamine (an antagonist of acetylcholine muscarinic receptors) influenced brain activity during memory retrieval, using a paradigm that separated recollection and familiarity. Eighteen healthy volunteers were recruited in a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind design using event-related fMRI. Participants were required to perform a verbal recognition memory task within the scanner, either under placebo or scopolamine conditions. Depending on the subcondition, participants were required to make a simple recognition decision (old/new items) or base their decision on more specific information related to prior experience (target/non-target/new items). We show a drug modulation in left prefrontal and perirhinal cortex during recollection. Such an effect was specifically driven by novelty and showed an inverse correlation with accuracy performance. Additionally, we show a direct correlation between drug-related signal change in left prefrontal and perirhinal cortices. We discuss the findings in terms of acetylcholine mediation of the familiarity/novelty signal through perirhinal cortex and the control of the relative signal strength through prefrontal cortex.
The reliability of language-specific brain activation profiles was assessed using Magnetoencephalography (MEG) in five experiments involving ninety-seven normal volunteers of both genders ranging in age from seven to eighty-four years. MEG data were analyzed with a fully automated method to eliminate subjective judgments in the process of deriving the activation profiles. Across all experiments, profiles were characterized by significant bilateral activity centered in the superior temporal gyrus, and in activity lateralized to the left middle temporal gyrus. These features were invariant across age, gender, variation in task characteristics, and mode of stimulus presentation. The absolute amount of activation, however, did decline with age in the auditory tasks. Moreover, contrary to the commonly held belief that left hemisphere dominance for language is greater in men than in women, our data revealed an opposite albeit a not consistently significant trend.
Nonrigid registration and atlas-based parcellation methods were used to compare the volume of the ventricular system and the cross-sectional area of the midsagittal corpus callosum on brain MRIs from 272 subjects in four groups: patients with HIV infection, with and without alcoholism comorbidity, alcoholics, and controls. Prior to testing group differences in regional brain metrics, each measure was corrected by regression analysis for significant correlations with supratentorial cranial volume and age, observed in 121 normal control men and women, whose age spanned six decades. Disregarding HIV disease severity, we observed a graded pattern of modest enlargement of the total ventricular system (0.28 SD for uncomplicated HIV, 0.65 SD for HIV comorbid with alcoholism, and 0.72 SD for the alcoholism group). The pattern of callosal thinning showed a similar but small ( approximately 0.5 SD) graded effect. A different pattern emerged, however, when HIV severity in the context of alcoholism comorbidity was factored into the analysis. Substantially greater volume abnormalities were present in individuals with a history of an AIDS-defining event or low CD4+ T cell counts (&lt;or=200 mm(3)) irrespective of alcoholism comorbidity, and the effect of HIV severity was disproportionately exacerbated by alcoholism comorbidity, with 1 SD size deficit in the genu of corpus callosum and nearly 2 SD greater volume of the frontal and body regions of the ventricles for the AIDS + alcohol comorbid group. The differences in brain volumes between the AIDS groups with vs. without alcoholism could not be attributed to differences in HIV disease severity, defined by CD4+ count, viral load, or Karnofsky score. The substantial effect of the alcoholism-AIDS interaction on ventricular and callosal dysmorphology, in the context of the modest changes observed in non-AIDS, nonalcohol abusing HIV-infected individuals, highlight the need to consider alcohol use disorders as a major risk factor for neuropathology among HIV-infected persons.
The human mirror neuron system (MNS) has recently been a major topic of research in cognitive neuroscience. As a very basic reflection of the MNS, human observers are faster at imitating a biological as compared with a non-biological movement. However, it is unclear which cortical areas and their interactions (synchronization) are responsible for this behavioural advantage. We investigated the time course of long-range synchronization within cortical networks during an imitation task in 10 healthy participants by means of whole-head magnetoencephalography (MEG). Extending previous work, we conclude that left ventrolateral premotor, bilateral temporal and parietal areas mediate the observed behavioural advantage of biological movements in close interaction with the basal ganglia and other motor areas (cerebellum, sensorimotor cortex). Besides left ventrolateral premotor cortex, we identified the right temporal pole and the posterior parietal cortex as important junctions for the integration of information from different sources in imitation tasks that are controlled for movement (biological vs. non-biological) and that involve a certain amount of spatial orienting of attention. Finally, we also found the basal ganglia to participate at an early stage in the processing of biological movement, possibly by selecting suitable motor programs that match the stimulus.
The default assumption that different pyrethroid insecticides, sharing a common mode of action, will show additivity of toxicity has not always been supported by in vitro measures, some of which have indicated antagonism. Our intention was to see whether the antagonism between pyrethroids of different classes seen in vitro could be reproduced in vivo. We therefore investigated the effects of single and combined exposures to two commonly used pyrethroids, deltamethrin (type II) and S-bioallethrin (type I) given intravenously to anaesthetised rats. We used two quantitative measures that are responsive to pyrethroids: the duration of prolongation of hippocampal dentate granule cell inhibition and the amplitude of the abnormal electromyogram discharge. At equi-toxic doses, S-bioallethrin extended the inter-stimulus interval evoking 50% inhibition in the hippocampus by 30+/-2.2 ms, and deltamethrin extended it by 199+/-21 ms. Combined administration of the same doses of deltamethrin and S-bioallethrin extended hippocampal inhibition by 164+/-14 ms, which did not differ significantly from the effect of deltamethrin alone. S-bioallethrin was without any effect on the electromyogram, and produced no significant change in the amplitude of the abnormal muscle discharges evoked by deltamethrin. The increase in arterial blood pressure evoked by the combination was significantly less than that evoked by either pyrethroid alone (p&lt;0.001). In summary, although our electrophysiological indices provide no support for functional antagonism between these two pyrethroids, they also fail to indicate any summation of effect.
Microglial cells represent the endogenous immune system of the central nervous system (CNS). Upon pathological insults they reveal their immunological potential aimed at regaining homeostasis. These reactions have long been believed to follow a uniform and unspecific pattern which is irrespective to the underlying disease entity. Evidence is growing that this view seriously underrates microglial competence as the defenders of the CNS. In the present study, microglial cells of 47 dogs were examined ex vivo by means of flow cytometry. Ex vivo examination included immunophenotypic characterization using eight different surface markers and functional studies such as phagocytosis assay and the reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation test. The dogs were classified according to their histopathological diagnoses in disease categories (controls, canine distemper virus (CDV) induced demyelination, other diseases of the CNS) and results of microglial reaction profiles were compared. Immunophenotypic characterization generally revealed relative high conformity in the microglial disease response among the different groups, however the functional response was shown to be more specific. Dogs with intracranial inflammation and dogs with demyelination showed an enhanced phagocytosis, whereas a significant up-regulation of ROS generation was found in dogs with demyelination due to CDV infection. This strongly suggests a specific response of microglia to infection with CDV in the settings of our study and underlines the pivotal role of microglial ROS generation in the pathogenesis of demyelinating diseases, such as canine distemper.
cDNA arrays compared gene expression in kidneys of neonatal mice subjected to 1, 2, and 4 weeks of chronic constant (CCH) or intermittent (CIH) hypoxia with normoxic littermates. Five to twenty percent of genes were regulated in each condition, with greater changes in CCH. Up-regulation of 42% of the solute carriers after 1 week of CCH suggests a strong activation of pH controlling pathways. Significant reduction in expression change of genes important in growth, development, and aging as a function of time indicates reduced maturation rate in CIH and CCH treatments. Regulated genes showed gender dependence in CCH, being higher in females than males at 1 week and higher in males than females thereafter. Transcriptional control was enhanced in CCH but not in CIH. Thus, CCH and CIH both alter gene expression and retard maturation with the more profound changes occurring in CCH than in CIH.
Mutations in the Cu,Zn-superoxide dismutase (SOD1) gene cause approximately 20% of familial cases of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (fALS). Accumulating evidence indicates that a gain of toxic function of mutant SOD1 proteins is the cause of the disease. It has also been shown that the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway plays a role in the clearance and toxicity of mutant SOD1. In this study, we investigated the degradation pathways of wild-type and mutant SOD1 in neuronal and nonneuronal cells. We provide here the first evidence that wild-type and mutant SOD1 are degraded by macroautophagy as well as by the proteasome. Based on experiments with inhibitors of these degradation pathways, the contribution of macroautophagy to mutant SOD1 clearance is comparable with that of the proteasome pathway. Using assays that measure cell viability and cell death, we observed that under conditions where expression of mutant SOD1 alone does not induce toxicity, macroautophagy inhibition induced mutant SOD1-mediated cell death, indicating that macroautophagy reduces the toxicity of mutant SOD1 proteins. We therefore propose that both macroautophagy and the proteasome are important for the reduction of mutant SOD1-mediated neurotoxicity in fALS. Inhibition of macroautophagy also increased SOD1 levels in detergent-soluble and -insoluble fractions, suggesting that both detergent-soluble and -insoluble SOD1 are degraded by macroautophagy. These findings may provide further insights into the mechanisms of pathogenesis of fALS.
The deposition of beta-amyloid in the brain is a pathological hallmark of Alzheimer disease (AD). Normally, the accumulation of beta-amyloid is prevented in part by the activities of several degradative enzymes, including the endothelin-converting enzymes, neprilysin, insulin-degrading enzyme, and plasmin. Recent reports indicate that another metalloprotease, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE), can degrade beta-amyloid in vitro and in cellular overexpression experiments. In addition, ACE gene variants are linked to AD risk in several populations. Angiotensin-converting enzyme, neprilysin and endothelin-converting enzyme function as vasopeptidases and are the targets of drugs designed to treat cardiovascular disorders, and ACE inhibitors are commonly prescribed. We investigated the potential physiological role of ACE in regulating endogenous brain beta-amyloid levels for two reasons: first, to determine whether beta-amyloid degradation might be the mechanism by which ACE is associated with AD, and second, to determine whether ACE inhibitor drugs might block beta-amyloid degradation in the brain and potentially increase the risk for AD. We analyzed beta-amyloid accumulation in brains from ACE-deficient mice and in mice treated with ACE inhibitors and found that ACE deficiency did not alter steady-state beta-amyloid concentration. In contrast, beta-amyloid levels are significantly elevated in endothelin-converting enzyme and neprilysin knock-out mice, and inhibitors of these enzymes cause a rapid increase in beta-amyloid concentration in the brain. The results of these studies do not support a physiological role for ACE in the degradation of beta-amyloid in the brain but confirm roles for endothelin-converting enzyme and neprilysin and indicate that reductions in these enzymes result in additive increases in brain amyloid beta-peptide levels.
In the absence of external cues, neurons in vitro polarize by using intrinsic mechanisms. For example, cultured hippocampal neurons extend arbitrarily oriented neurites and then one of these, usually the one nearest the centrosome, begins to grow more quickly than the others. This neurite becomes the axon as it accumulates molecular components of the apical junctional complex. All the other neurites become dendrites. It is unclear, however, whether neurons in vivo, which differentiate within a polarized epithelium, break symmetry by using similar intrinsic mechanisms. To investigate this, we use four-dimensional microscopy of developing retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) in live zebrafish embryos. We find that the situation is indeed very different in vivo, where axons emerge directly from uniformly polarized cells in the absence of other neurites. In vivo, moreover, components of the apical complex do not localize to the emerging axon, nor does the centrosome predict the site of axon emergence. Mosaic analysis in four dimensions, using mutants in which neuroepithelial polarity is disrupted, indicates that extrinsic factors such as access to the basal lamina are critical for normal axon emergence from RGCs in vivo.
Extracellular ATP, released upon tissue damage to the CNS, can evoke reactive astrogliosis. The released ATP activates P2 purinergic receptors associated with the proliferation of normally quiescent astrocytes, although the underlying mechanisms remain to be fully elucidated. Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) has been implicated in reactive astrogliosis and plays an important role in cell cycle regulation. Therefore, we investigated whether extracellular ATP and purinergic receptors regulate STAT3 signaling. Using immunoblot analysis, we found that addition of ATP to primary cultures of rat cortical astrocytes increased Ser-727 phosphorylation of STAT3 in a time-sensitive and concentration-dependent manner. ATP-stimulated Ser-727 STAT3 phosphorylation was mediated through P2 receptor activation since suramin, an antagonist of P2 receptors, diminished this response, whereas 8-(para-sulfo-phenyl)-theophylline (8PSTP), an antagonist of P1 receptors, did not. We found that UTP, an agonist of P2Y(2/4/6) receptors, stimulated rapid and robust phosphorylation of Ser727-STAT3, whereas BzATP, an agonist for P2X receptors, exhibited a delayed and weaker response. In contrast, both P2Y and P2X agonists stimulated phosphorylation of Tyr705-STAT3 to a similar extent. P2 receptors can couple to extracellular signal-regulated protein kinases (ERK) and we found that inhibition of ERK signaling blocked phosphorylation of Ser727-STAT3. Further characterization of the Ser727-STAT3 phosphorylation response to P2Y receptor activation supported a role for P2Y2 and P2Y4, but not P2Y6, receptors as well as a partial role for P2Y1 receptors. Because phosphorylation of Ser727-STAT3 can promote DNA transcriptional activity of cell cycle regulatory genes, the differences in phosphorylation of Ser727-STAT3 may contribute to the mechanism by which P2Y receptors promote, whereas P2X receptors inhibit, astrocyte proliferation. In support of this hypothesis, inhibition of STAT3 activation by cucurbitacin I prevented ATP-stimulated mitogenesis. We conclude that P2 receptors stimulate STAT3 activation and suggest that P2 receptor/STAT3 signaling may play an important role in astrocyte proliferation and reactive astrogliosis.

Neonatal handling is an early experience which results in improved function of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, increased adaptability and coping as a response to stress, as well as better cognitive abilities. In the present study, we investigated the effect of neonatal handling on the basal forebrain cholinergic system, since this system is known to play an important role in cognitive processes. We report that neonatal handling results in increased number of choline-acetyl transferase immunopositive cells in the septum/diagonal band, in both sexes, while no such effect was observed in the other cholinergic nuclei, such as the magnocellular preoptic nucleus and the nucleus basalis of Meynert. In addition, neonatal handling resulted in increased M1 and M2 muscarinic receptor binding sites in the cingulate and piriform cortex of both male and female rats. A handling-induced increase in M1 muscarinic receptor binding sites was also observed in the CA3 and CA4 (fields 3 and 4 of Ammon's horn) areas of the hippocampus. Furthermore, a handling-induced increase in acetylcholinesterase staining was found only in the hippocampus of females. Our results thus show that neonatal handling acts in a sexually dimorphic manner on one of the cholinergic parameters, and has a beneficial effect on BFCS function, which could be related to the more efficient and adaptive stress response and the superior cognitive abilities of handled animals.
In reaction time (RT) tasks, presentation of a startling acoustic stimulus (SAS) together with a visual imperative stimulus can dramatically reduce RT while leaving response execution unchanged. It has been suggested that a prepared motor response program is triggered early by the SAS but is not otherwise affected. Movements aimed at intercepting moving targets are usually considered to be similarly governed by a prepared program. This program is triggered when visual stimulus information about the time to arrival of the moving target reaches a specific criterion. We investigated whether a SAS could also trigger such a movement. Human experimental participants were trained to hit moving targets with movements of a specific duration. This permitted an estimate of when movement would begin (expected onset time). Startling and sub-startle threshold acoustic probe stimuli were delivered unexpectedly among control trials: 65, 85, 115 and 135 ms prior to expected onset (10:1 ratio of control to probe trials). Results showed that startling probe stimuli at 85 and 115 ms produced early response onsets but not those at 65 or 135 ms. Sub-threshold stimuli at 115 and 135 ms also produced early onsets. Startle probes led to an increased vigor in the response, but sub-threshold probes had no detectable effects. These data can be explained by a simple model in which preparatory, response-related activation builds up in the circuits responsible for generating motor commands in anticipation of the GO command. If early triggering by the acoustic probes is the mechanism underlying the findings, then the data support the hypothesis that rapid interceptions are governed by a motor program.
Numerous studies support a role for the endogenous opioid system in cocaine-influenced behavior. Few of these studies, however, selectively delineate a role for the mu opioid receptor (MOR) in this regard. This investigation examined if the MOR modulates cocaine-induced behavior in mice using a 17-base antisense oligodeoxynucleotide (AS ODN) directed against the MOR coding sequence 16-32. Specifically, cocaine-induced behavioral sensitization and conditioned reward were investigated. For the sensitization study, C57BL/6J mice received eight intermittent i.c.v. infusions of saline, mismatch oligodeoxynucleotide (ODN) (20 microg/4 microl) or AS ODN (20 microg/4 microl) over 20 days. Mice also received concomitant once daily i.p. injections of saline (4 ml/kg) or cocaine (15 mg/kg) for 10 days. There was a 7-day withdrawal period, after which all mice were challenged with cocaine (15 mg/kg) to test for behavioral sensitization. For the conditioned place preference (CPP) study, mice received five i.c.v. infusions of mismatch ODN or MOR AS ODN (days 1-5). An unbiased counterbalanced conditioning procedure was used where mice were conditioned with saline (4 ml/kg, i.p.) and cocaine (15 mg/kg, i.p.) on alternate days for four sessions (days 3-6). Mice were tested on day 7 for CPP. Immediately following testing, [3H]DAMGO (D-Ala2, N-Me-Phe4, Gly-ol5-enkephalin) receptor binding to brain homogenates was conducted. MOR AS attenuated cocaine-induced behavioral sensitization and conditioned reward. MOR AS ODN also reduced [3H]DAMGO binding. Collectively, these findings implicate the MOR as playing an important neuromodulatory role in the behavioral effects of cocaine in mice.
Osmoprotective genes are tonicity-activated genes involved in cellular osmoadaptation to hypertonicity and considered to be regulated by a specific transcription factor called tonicity-responsive enhancer-binding protein (TonEBP). In the brain we had previously established that TonEBP was expressed and tonicity-induced in neurons only. Here we have compared in various brain regions of rats subjected to systemic hypertonicity, the cellular expression of TonEBP through immunocytochemistry and the cellular expression of osmoprotective genes, namely aldose reductase (AR), sodium-dependent myo-inositol transporter (SMIT), betaine/GABA transporter (BGT1) and taurine transporter (TauT), by in situ hybridization using non-radioactive digoxigenin-labeled riboprobes. In neurons where TonEBP was strongly tonicity-induced, AR-mRNA labeling was strongly increased in some subsets (e.g. hippocampus pyramidal cells, cerebellar Purkinje cells and neurons of the hypothalamic magnocellular nuclei) but remained undetectable in some other subsets (e.g. neurons in cerebral cortex). Tonicity-induced AR-mRNA labeling was observed only several hours after the tonicity-induced expression of TonEBP. SMIT-mRNA labeling was tonicity-induced as densely and evenly distributed dots in neuron poor regions (e.g. cerebral cortex layer I and hippocampus stratum lacunosum-moleculare). The tonicity-induced expression of SMIT-mRNA may thus occur in non-neuronal cells, presumably astrocytes, where TonEBP is neither significantly expressed, nor tonicity-induced. In neurons showing a strong tonicity-induced expression of TonEBP, no SMIT-mRNA labeling was observed. BGT1-mRNA and TauT-mRNA labeling could not be detected, even after systemic hypertonicity. The present work reveals large discrepancies between the cellular distribution of the tonicity-induced expression of osmoprotective genes and that of their regulatory transactivator TonEBP. Depending on the cell subsets and the osmoprotective genes, TonEBP may appear insufficient or conversely unnecessary for the tonicity-induced activation of an osmoprotective gene. Altogether our results show that brain cells, even from the same class, activate distinct osmoprotective genes through distinct activation processes to adapt to hypertonicity.
We showed that hypothermic preconditioning (HPC) increased survival of Purkinje neurons in rat cerebellar slices after oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD). HPC also reduced the OGD-increased expression of high mobility group I (Y) proteins, a transcription factor that can enhance inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) expression. iNOS is a putatively damaging protein that contributes to ischemic brain injury. Heat shock proteins (HSPs) can be induced by various stimuli to protect cells. We hypothesize that HPC induces neuroprotection by reducing the expression of putatively damaging proteins such as iNOS and/or by increasing the expression of putatively protective proteins such as HSPs. Cerebellar slices were prepared from adult male Sprague-Dawley rats and incubated in circulating artificial cerebrospinal fluid. OGD was for 20 min at 37 degrees C and was followed by a 5-h recovery at 37 degrees C before slices were used for morphological, immunohistochemical and Western analyses. HPC was performed by incubating slices at 33 degrees C for 20 min at 1 h before the OGD. HPC and aminoguanidine, an iNOS inhibitor, prevented OGD-induced Purkinje cell death/injury. OGD increased the expression of iNOS and nitrosylated proteins. These increases were abolished by aminoguanidine and HPC. Interestingly, the expression of HSP70 was increased by OGD but not by HPC. Our results suggest that an increased iNOS expression contributes to the pathophysiology of OGD-induced Purkinje neuronal death in our model. Our results also suggest the involvement of inhibiting the expression of the putatively damaging iNOS proteins in the HPC-induced neuroprotection. HSP70 may not contribute to the HPC-induced neuroprotection.
During aging the non-enzymatic glycation of proteins and other molecules increases significantly, leading to the accumulation of advanced glycation end-products (AGEs). These AGEs enhance inflammatory and autoimmune reactions with resultant cytotoxicity. We noted in an earlier study that individuals with Alzheimer's disease exhibit enhanced expression of the receptor for advanced glycation end-products (RAGE) on the surface of their leukocytes. In order to better understand the relationship between AGEs and the cell surface binding of amyloid-beta protein (Abeta) 42 we studied the effect of two AGEs: glycated bovine serum albumin (BSA), and epsilon-carboxymethyllysine-BSA (CML), a glycoxidation product, on the binding of Abeta42 to rat PC-12 and IMR-32 cells. We measured the expression of three potential cell surface receptors binding Abeta42: RAGE, beta-amyloid precursor protein (beta-APP), and the alpha7 subtype of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (alpha7nAChR) by using specific antibody probes. Incubation of PC-12 or IMR-32 cells with bovine serum albumin-advanced glycation end-product (BSA-AGE) or with CML induced small but significant concentration-dependent increases in the expression of beta-APP, RAGE, and alpha7nAChRs as measured by flow cytometry or by ELISA. Incubation of the cells with 48 microM of either of the AGEs combined with varying concentrations (138-1100 nM) of Abeta42 resulted in the enhanced binding of the Abeta42 to the cell surface as compared with cells not exposed to the AGE co-treatment. The combination of AGE and Abeta treatment also resulted in the heightened expression of all three potential Abeta binding sites as well as their gene precursors. Exposure of cells to the same regimen of AGE plus Abeta resulted in the production of reactive oxygen species and mitochondrial toxicity. These results are consistent with the ability of AGEs to enhance the cell surface expression of diverse Abeta42 binding sites, a factor that can lead to the enhanced binding of amyloid and subsequent cell death.
Prone sleeping and cigarette smoke exposure are two major risk factors for the sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS). Utilizing piglet models of early postnatal nicotine and/or intermittent hypercapnic-hypoxia (IHH) exposure, we tested the hypothesis that these exposures, separately or combined, increase N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor 1 (NR1) expression in the brainstem medulla. We also tested for gender-specific effects. Three piglet exposure groups were compared against 14 controls; 1, nicotine [n = 14], 2, IHH [n = 10], and 3, nicotine+IHH [n = 14], with equal gender proportions in each group. Non-radioactive in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry were performed for NR1 mRNA and protein expression, respectively, and were quantified in seven nuclei of the brainstem medulla. NR1 mRNA was significantly increased in the gracile and inferior olivary nucleus (ION) after nicotine exposure, in five of seven nuclei after IHH exposure, and in three of seven nuclei after nicotine+IHH. The increased mRNA changes were accompanied by increased protein only in the ION after IHH and nicotine+IHH (P = 0.019, and P = 0.008 respectively). By gender, control females had greater NR1 mRNA than males in the dorsal motor nucleus of vagus (P = 0.05) and for protein in the ION (P = 0.02). This gender difference was maintained after nicotine exposure in the ION with additional gender differences observed including greater mRNA in the cuneate nucleus (P = 0.04) and nucleus of the spinal trigeminal tract (P = 0.03) of males compared with females. Overall, more changes occurred at the mRNA level than protein, and IHH exposure induced more changes than nicotine or nicotine+IHH exposures. Together, these findings suggest that hypercapnic-hypoxic exposures (modeling prone sleeping or sleep apnea) are more likely to induce NMDA receptor changes in the developing brainstem than nicotine exposure alone.
Potassium channels contribute to basic neuronal excitability and modulation. Here, we examined expression patterns of the voltage-gated potassium channel Kv1.4, the nociceptive transduction channels TRPV1 and TRPV2 as well as the putative anti-nociceptive cannabinoid receptor CB1 by immunofluorescence double-labelings in sections of rat dorsal root ganglia (DRGs). Kv1.4, TRPV1 and CB1 were each detected in about one third of neurons (35.7+/-0.5%, 29.4+/-1.1% and 36.4+/-0.5%, respectively, mean diameter 19.1+/-0.3 microm). TRPV2 was present in 4.4+/-0.4% of all neurons that were significantly larger in diameter (27.4+/-0.7 microm; P &lt; 0.001). Antibody double-labeling revealed that the majority of Kv1.4-positive neurons co-expressed TRPV1 (73.9+/-1.5%) whereas none expressed TRPV2. The largest overlap was found with CB1 (93.1+/-0.1%). CB1 expression resembled that seen for Kv1.4 since the majority of neurons expressing CB1-protein also expressed TRPV1 (69.4+/-6.5%) but not TRPV2 (0.6+/-0.3%). When CB1-mRNA was detected using in situ hybridizations an additional subset of larger neurons was labeled including 82.4+/-17.7% of the TRPV2 expressing neurons. However, co-localization of Kv1.4 with CB1-mRNA (92%, mean diameter: 18.5 microm) was essentially the same as with CB1-protein. The almost complete overlap of CB1 and Kv1.4 in nociceptive DRG neurons suggests a functional synergistic action between Kv1.4 and CB1. The potassium channel may have two important roles in nociception. As the molecular basis of A-type current it could be involved in the control of repetitive discharges at peripheral terminals and as a downstream signal transduction site of CB1 in the control of presynaptic transmitter release at central terminals.
In adult hippocampus, neural progenitor cells give rise to neurons throughout life, and the neurogenesis is modulated by various intrinsic and extrinsic factors. Recent reports showed that lesion of septal cholinergic nuclei projecting to hippocampus suppressed the survival of newborn cells in the dentate gyrus (DG) of hippocampus. Here, we studied whether pharmacological treatment to activate or inhibit the cholinergic system could modulate adult hippocampal neurogenesis. 5'-Bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) was injected to label dividing cells before the drug treatment. Immunohistochemical analysis was performed in normal rats chronically treated with an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor donepezil or a muscarinic acetylcholine receptor blocker scopolamine for four weeks. Donepezil increased, but scopolamine decreased, the number of BrdU-positive cells in the DG as compared with the control. Neither drug altered the percentage of BrdU-positive cells that were also positive for a neuronal marker neuronal nuclei, nor net population of proliferative cells labeled with proliferating cell nuclear antigen. We also found that donepezil enhanced, and scopolamine suppressed, the expression level of phosphorylated cAMP response element binding protein (CREB), which is related to cell survival, in the DG. These results indicate that donepezil enhances and scopolamine suppresses the survival of newborn cells in the DG via CREB signaling without affecting neural progenitor cell proliferation and the neuronal differentiation. This is the first evidence that pharmacological manipulation of the cholinergic system can modulate adult hippocampal neurogenesis.
Morphine induces profound analgesic tolerance in vivo despite inducing little internalization of the mu opioid receptor (muOR). Previously proposed explanations suggest that this lack of internalization could either lead to prolonged signaling and associated compensatory changes in downstream signaling systems, or that the receptor is unable to recycle and resensitize and so loses efficacy, either mechanism resulting in tolerance. We therefore examined, in cultured neurons, the relationship between muOR internalization and desensitization in response to two agonists, D-Ala2, N-MePhe4, Gly5-ol-enkephalin (DAMGO) and morphine. In addition, we studied the chimeric mu/delta opioid receptor (mu/ partial differentialOR) which could affect internalization and desensitization in neurons. Dorsal root ganglia neurons from muOR knockout mice were transduced with an adenovirus expressing either receptor and their respective internalization, desensitization and trafficking profiles determined. Both receptors desensitized equally, measured by Ca2+ current inhibition, during the first 5 min of agonist exposure to DAMGO or morphine treatment, although the mu/partial differentialOR desensitized more extensively. Such rapid desensitization was unrelated to internalization as DAMGO, but not morphine, internalized both receptors after 20 min. In response to DAMGO the mu/partial differentialOR internalized more rapidly than the muOR and was trafficked through Rab4-positive endosomes and lysosomal-associated membrane protein-1-labeled lysosomes whereas the muOR was trafficked through Rab4 and Rab11-positive endosomes. Chronic desensitization of the Ca2+ current response, after 24 h of morphine or DAMGO incubation, was seen in the DAMGO, but not morphine-treated, muOR-expressing cells. Such persistence of signaling after chronic morphine treatment suggests that compensation of downstream signaling systems, rather than loss of efficacy due to poor receptor recycling, is a more likely mechanism of morphine tolerance in vivo. In contrast to the muOR, the mu/partial differentialOR showed equivalent desensitization whether morphine or DAMGO treated, but internalized further with DAMGO than morphine. Such ligand-independent desensitization could be a result of the observed higher rate of synthesis and degradation of this chimeric receptor.
The present study was performed to examine the role of the endogenous beta-endorphinergic system on blood pressure regulation, sympathetic and brain activity during body sodium overload. Beta-endorphin knockout (beta end-/-), heterozygous (beta end+/-) and wild-type (beta end+/+) mice were submitted for two weeks to either a normal- or a high-sodium diet (NSD and HSD, respectively), and systolic blood pressure (SBP), urinary catecholamines (as an index of sympathetic nervous system activity), and the brain pattern of Fos-like immunoreactivity (as a marker of neuronal activation) were evaluated in each group. HSD caused a significant increase in SBP in beta end-/- mutant mice compared with beta end+/+ mice kept in the same experimental conditions (P &lt; 0.01), but no statistical differences were observed between beta end+/- and beta end+/+ on a HSD. Moreover, when animals from the three genetic lines were fed with a NSD no changes in SBP were evidenced. With regard to brain activity, beta end-/- mice maintained on a HSD showed a significant increase in Fos-like immunoreactive neurons in the median preoptic nucleus (P &lt; 0.01) compared with beta end+/- and beta end+/+ animals. Additionally, beta end-/- mice had higher levels of urinary epinephrine excretion (P &lt; 0.05) on a HSD in comparison to beta end+/+ and beta end+/- animals in the same experimental conditions. No differences, however, were registered in norepinephrine and dopamine urinary excretion in animals from the three genetic lines after two weeks on either a HSD or a NSD. In summary, our results indicate that the beta-endorphinergic system may play a part in the compensatory response to sodium overload, since the absence of beta-endorphin causes an increase in systolic blood pressure, and increases median preoptic nucleus neural activity and urinary epinephrine excretion.
Rapid eye movement (REM) sleep loss impairs several physiological, behavioral and cellular processes; however, the mechanism of action was unknown. To understand the effects of REM sleep deprivation on neuronal damage and apoptosis, studies were conducted using multiple apoptosis markers in control and experimental rat brain neurons located in areas either related to or unrelated to REM sleep regulation. Furthermore, the effects of REM sleep deprivation were also studied on neuronal cytoskeletal proteins, actin and tubulin. It was observed that after REM sleep deprivation a significantly increased number of neurons in the rat brain were positive to apoptotic markers, which however, tended to recover after the rats were allowed to undergo REM sleep; the control rats were not affected. Further, it was also observed that REM sleep deprivation decreased amounts of actin and tubulin in neurons confirming our previous reports of changes in neuronal size and shape after such deprivation. These findings suggest that one of the possible functions of REM sleep is to protect neurons from damage and apoptosis.
Olfactory information processing is mediated by synaptic connections between the olfactory bulbs (OBs) and piriform-limbic cortices. Limited accessibility using common in vivo and in vitro preparations has hindered previous attempts to define these synaptic interactions. We utilized the isolated guinea-pig brain preparation to overcome these experimental limitations. Previous studies demonstrated extensive functional preservation in this preparation maintained in vitro by arterial perfusion. Field potential laminar profiles were performed with multi-channel probes in the OB following stimulation of both the lateral olfactory tract (LOT) and the anterior piriform cortex (APC). Current-source density analysis was carried out on laminar profiles to reconstruct current sinks/sources associated with intrinsic synaptic activities. LOT stimulation induced sequentially i) an antidromic population spike (at 2.66+/-0.39 ms) located in the mitral cell layer that was resistant to 100 Hz high-frequency stimulation (HFS) and 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX) (10 microM), ii) a component located in the external plexiform layer at 3.85+/-0.63 ms that was unaffected by HFS, iii) a large amplitude potential (peak amplitude at 5.84+/-0.58 ms) generated in the external plexiform layer, abolished by HFS and CNQX, but not by bicuculline (50 microM), iv) a late response (onset at 20.00+/-2.94 ms) abolished by CNQX and enhanced by bicuculline. Stimulation of the APC also induced a late potential abolished by HFS and CNQX. Both APC-evoked and late LOT-evoked responses were abolished by a transverse cut to separate OB from APC. These results demonstrate in an isolated mammalian brain preparation the presence of reciprocal synaptic interactions between the OB and piriform cortical structures.
Understanding the molecular biology of noise trauma is vital to developing effective and timely interventions. In a model of explosion-mediated impulse noise injury, differential gene expression was studied in whole rat cochlea preparations at 3 and 24 h following the exposure. We developed a technique using mRNA from a single cochlea on each oligonucleotide microarray to avoid pooling of mRNA samples. Application of a conservative statistical analysis approach resulted in the identification of 61 differentially expressed genes. Within 3 h after the exposure, there was an up-regulation of immediate early genes, mainly transcription factors and genes involved in the tissue's response to oxidative stress. No genes were found to be significantly down-regulated. At 24 h following the exposure, up-regulated genes included members of inflammatory and antioxidant pathways and one gene involved in glutathione metabolism was down-regulated. A subset of genes was confirmed by real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The present study demonstrates the power of the microarray technique in providing a global view of the gene regulation following noise exposure, and in identifying genes that may be mechanistically important in hearing loss, and thereby serve as a basis for the development of therapeutic interventions.
The hypothalamic paraventricular (PVN) neurons projecting to the spinal cord and brainstem play an important role in the control of homeostasis and the sympathetic nervous system. Although GABA(B) receptors are present in the PVN, their function in the control of synaptic inputs to PVN presympathetic neurons is not clear. Using retrograde tracing and whole-cell patch-clamp recordings in rat brain slices, we determined the role of presynaptic GABA(B) receptors in regulation of glutamatergic and GABAergic inputs to spinally projecting PVN neurons. The GABA(B) receptor agonist baclofen (1-50 microM) dose-dependently decreased the frequency but not the amplitude of spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents (sEPSCs) and inhibitory postsynaptic currents (sIPSCs). The effect of baclofen on sEPSCs and sIPSCs was completely blocked by 10 microM CGP52432, a selective GABA(B) receptor antagonist. Baclofen also significantly reduced the frequency of both miniature excitatory and miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs and mIPSCs). Furthermore, uncoupling pertussis toxin-sensitive G(i/o) proteins with N-ethylmaleimide abolished baclofen-induced inhibition of mEPSCs and mIPSCs. However, the inhibitory effect of baclofen on the frequency of mIPSCs and mEPSCs persisted in the presence of either Cd2+, a voltage-gated Ca2+ channel blocker, or 4-aminopyridine, a blocker of voltage-gated K+ channels. Our results suggest that activation of presynaptic GABA(B) receptors inhibits synaptic GABA and glutamate release to PVN presympathetic neurons. This presynaptic action of GABA(B) receptors is mediated by the N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive G(i/o) proteins, but independent of voltage-gated Ca2+ and K+ channels.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) is one of the most potent trophic factors identified for promoting survival and function of dopaminergic (DA) neurons in the midbrain. Ret, a member of the receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) superfamily transduces GDNF signaling. The role of Ret in the development of DA neurons is not clear however. Here we demonstrate the involvement of Ret in the DA neuron development both in vitro and in vivo. The dopamine transporter (DAT) gene was clearly induced in rat embryonic neural precursors that had been transfected with Ret. Temporary blockade of Ret expression in embryos using Ret antisense oligonucleotides (Ret-AS-ODN) in vivo led to reduced striatal DA content and a decrease of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) positive fibers in the striatum. Additionally, some DA neurons in the substantia nigra (SN) underwent apoptotic cell death following the Ret-AS-ODN treatment. Taken together, the data suggest that normal function of Ret is required in vivo for the maturation of DA neurons, in particular for cell survival and fiber innervation. We further demonstrated Ret-induced expression of DAT in vitro.
Degeneration of the dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra is a hallmark of Parkinson's disease. To facilitate the study of the differentiation and maintenance of this population of dopaminergic neurons both in vivo and in vitro, we generated a knock-in reporter line in which the yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) replaced the first exon and the first intron of the tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) gene in one allele by homologous recombination. Expression of YFP under the direct control of the entire endogenous 5' upstream region of the TH gene was predicted to closely match expression of TH from the wild type allele, thus marking functional dopaminergic neurons. We found that YFP was expressed in dopaminergic neurons differentiated in vitro from the knock-in mouse embryonic stem cell line and in dopaminergic brain regions in knock-in mice. Surprisingly, however, YFP expression did not overlap completely with TH expression, and the degree of overlap varied in different TH-expressing brain regions. Thus, the reporter gene did not identify functional TH-expressing cells with complete accuracy. A DNaseI hypersensitivity assay revealed a cluster of hypersensitivity sites in the first intron of the TH gene, which was deleted by insertion of the reporter gene, suggesting that this region may contain cis-acting regulatory sequences. Our results suggest that the first intron of the rodent TH gene may be important for accurate expression of TH.
Developmentally, semaphorin 3A (sema3A) is an important chemorepellent that guides centrally projecting axons of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. Sema3A-mediated growth cone collapse can be prevented by cyclic GMP (cGMP) and nerve growth factor (NGF) in embryonic neurons. Sema3A may also play a role in directing regrowth of injured axons in adults, and interactions with neurotrophic factors near the injury site may determine the extent and targeting of both regenerative and aberrant growth. The aim of this study was to determine whether NGF, glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) and neurturin (NTN) modulate sema3A-mediated growth cone collapse in cultured adult rat DRG neurons. Sema3A caused a significant increase in growth cone collapse, which was completely prevented by prior treatment with NGF, GDNF or NTN. Immunocytochemical experiments showed that sema3A-sensitive neurons were heterogeneous in their expression of neurotrophic factor receptors and responses to neurotrophic factors, raising the possibility of novel, convergent signaling mechanisms between these substances. Increasing cGMP levels caused growth cone collapse, whereas sema3A-mediated collapse was prevented by inhibition of guanylate cyclase or by increasing cyclic AMP levels. In conclusion, sema3A signaling pathways in adult neurons differ to those described in embryonic neurons. Three different neurotrophic factors each completely prevent sema3A-mediated collapse, raising the possibility of novel converging signaling pathways. These studies also show that there is considerable potential for neurotrophic factors to regulate sema3A actions in the adult nervous system. This may provide insights into the mechanisms underling misdirected growth and targeting of sensory fibers within the spinal cord after injury, that is thought to contribute to development of autonomic dysreflexia and neuropathic pain.
The suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) contains a circadian clock that maintains its time-generating and phase-modulating capacities in vitro. Previous studies report clear differences in the ability of serotonergic stimuli to phase-shift the SCN clock when applied directly to the SCN either in vivo or in vitro: while mice and rat circadian clocks are readily phase-shifted by serotonin (5-HT) or 5-HT agonists applied in vitro, hamster and mice circadian clocks respond inconsistently to 5-HT agonists injected directly into the SCN in vivo. Here we have investigated one possible explanation for these differences: that the SCN isolated in vitro experiences reduced endogenous 5-HT signaling, which increases clock sensitivity to subsequent 5-HT stimulation. For these experiments we treated mouse SCN brain slices with low concentrations of compounds that increase serotonin signaling: 5-HT, a 5-HT agonist (8-OH-DPAT), the 5-HT precursor, l-tryptophan, or the 5-HT re-uptake inhibitor, fluoxetine. Pretreatment with each of these substances completely blocked subsequent phase-shifts induced by mid-subjective day treatment with either 5-HT or 8-OH-DPAT, while they did not block phase-shifts induced by the adenylate cyclase activator, forskolin. Time-course data on l-tryptophan-induced inhibition are consistent with this treatment inducing receptor internalization, while timing of the recovery from inhibition is consistent with receptor reinsertion. Together these data support the hypothesis that SCN clock sensitivity to serotonergic phase modulation is affected by the amount of prior serotonin signaling present in the SCN, and that this signaling alters the density of surface 5-HT receptors on SCN clock neurons.
Severe and malignant hyperthermia is a frequently reported factor in emergency department (ED) visits and fatalities in which use of amphetamine drugs, such as (+/-)3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA), (+/-)3,4-methylenedioxyamphetamine (MDA) and (+)methamphetamine (METH), is confirmed. Individuals who use &quot;ecstasy&quot; are also often exposed, intentionally or otherwise, to several of these structurally-related compounds alone or in combination. In animal studies the degree of (subcritical) hyperthermia is often related to the severity of amphetamine-induced neurotoxicity, suggesting health risks to the human user even when emergency medical services are not invoked. A clear distinction of thermoregulatory risks posed by different amphetamines is therefore critical to understand factors that may produce medical emergency related to hyperthermia. The objective of this study was therefore to determine the relative thermoregulatory disruption produced by recreational doses of MDMA, MDA and METH in nonhuman primates. Body temperature and spontaneous home cage activity were monitored continuously in six male rhesus monkeys via radiotelemetric devices. The subjects were challenged intramuscularly with 0.56-2.4 mg/kg MDMA, 0.56-2.4 mg/kg MDA and 0.1-1.0 mg/kg METH. All three amphetamines significantly elevated temperature; however the time course of effects differed. The acute effect of METH lasted hours longer than MDA or MDMA and a disruption of nighttime circadian cooling was observed as long as 18 h after 1.0 mg/kg METH and 1.78-2.4 mg/kg MDA, but not after MDMA. Activity levels were only reliably increased by 0.32 mg/kg METH. It is concluded that while all three substituted amphetamines produce hyperthermia in rhesus monkeys, the effects do not depend on elevated locomotor activity and exhibit differences between compounds. The results highlight physiological risks posed both by recreational use of the amphetamines and by current trials for clinical MDMA use.
Expression of 2',3'-cyclic nucleotide 3'-phosphodiesterase (CNPase) in amoeboid microglial cells (AMC) in developing rat brain from prenatal day 18 (E18) to postnatal day 10 (P10) was demonstrated by immunohistochemistry/immunofluorescence and immunoelectron microscopy both in vivo and in vitro, respectively. Furthermore, real time-polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was performed to determine the expression of CNPase at mRNA level in cultured microglial cells in control conditions and following lipopolysaccharide stimulation. CNPase immunoreactive amoeboid microglia occurred in large numbers in the corpus callosum, subventricular zone and cavum septum pellucidum at P0 but were progressively reduced with age and were undetectable at P14. By immunoelectron microscopy, immunoreaction product was associated primarily with the plasma membrane, filopodial projections and mitochondria in AMC. Real time-PCR analysis revealed that CNPase mRNA was expressed by cultured amoeboid microglia and was significantly up-regulated in microglial activation induced in vitro by lipopolysaccharide. The functional role of CNPase in AMC remains speculative. Given its expression in AMC transiently occurring in the perinatal brain and that it is markedly elevated in activated microglia, it is suggested that the enzyme may be linked to the major functions of the cell type such as release of chemokines and cytokines. In relation to this, CNPase may play a key role associated with transportation of cytoplasmic materials.
Activation of D1-like (D1, D5) or D2-like (D1, D3, D4) dopamine receptors in the nucleus accumbens shell is sufficient to reinstate cocaine-seeking behavior in rats. The goal of these experiments was to assess whether cooperative activation of D1-like and D2-like dopamine receptors in the accumbens shell is required to promote cocaine reinstatement. Rats were initially trained to self-administer cocaine (0.25 mg, i.v.) using a fixed-ratio schedule of reinforcement for approximately 21 days. Animals subsequently underwent an extinction phase during which saline was substituted for cocaine. Once cocaine self-administration behavior was extinguished (defined as &lt;15% of the total responses maintained during self-administration), dopamine receptor agonist-induced reinstatement of cocaine seeking was assessed. Administration of the selective D1/5 agonist R-(+)-6-chloro-7,8-dihydroxy-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine hydrobromide (SKF-81297) (1.0 microg) or the D2/3 receptor agonist trans-(-)-(4aR)-4,4a,5,6,7,8,8a,9-octahydro-5-propyl-1H-pyrazolo[3,4-g]quinoline hydrochloride (quinpirole) (3.0 microg) directly into the nucleus accumbens shell promoted reinstatement of cocaine seeking. In order to determine if endogenous dopamine tone in the accumbens shell is required for dopamine receptor agonist-induced reinstatement of cocaine seeking, D1/5 or D2/3 dopamine receptor antagonists were administered into the nucleus accumbens shell prior to a selective dopamine receptor agonist. Microinfusion of the D2/3 dopamine receptor antagonist sulpiride ((S)-5-aminosulfonyl-N-[(1-ethyl-2-pyrrolidinyl)methyl]-2-methoxybenzamide) (1.0 microg) into the nucleus accumbens shell 10 minutes prior to SKF-81297 (1.0 microg) blocked the ability of this D1-like dopamine receptor agonist to reinstate cocaine seeking. Similarly, administration of the selective D1/5 dopamine receptor antagonist R(+)-7-chloro-8-hydroxy-3-methyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine hydrochloride (SCH-23390) (1.0 microg) into the nucleus accumbens shell prior to quinpirole (3.0 microg) blocked reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior elicited by this D2/3 dopamine receptor agonist. Moreover, intra-accumbal shell co-administration of subthreshold doses of quinpirole (1.5 microg) and SKF-81297 (0.1 microg) promoted cocaine-seeking behavior. Collectively, these results indicate that cooperative activation of D1-like and D2-like dopamine receptors in the nucleus accumbens shell is necessary to reinstate cocaine seeking in rats.
The Girk2(Wv) (weaver) phenotype, caused by a mutated inward rectifying potassium channel, is characterized by degeneration of cerebellar granule cell population as well as midbrain dopamine-containing cells of the nigrostriatal pathway. To investigate the regional brain metabolic consequences of this combined pathology, cytochrome oxidase (CO) activity was measured by histochemistry from brain regions of wild-type and homozygous Girk2(Wv) mutant mice and correlated with motor performances. CO activity of Girk2(Wv) mutants was abnormal in cerebellar cortex, dentate nucleus, and brainstem regions (medial and lateral vestibular nuclei, prepositus, superior colliculus, lateral cuneiform nucleus, and reticular nuclei) implicated in the gaze system. CO activity increased in midbrain dopaminergic regions after correcting for tissue density, regions with severe depletion of tyrosine hydroxylase activity. Forebrain regions were relatively spared in term of CO activity, except for subthalamic nucleus, lateral geniculate nucleus, and cortical eye field. Similarly to the Rora(sg) cerebellar mutant, metabolic alterations in cerebellar and vestibular regions were linearly correlated with poor motor coordination, underlining the sensitivity of these tests to cerebellar dysfunction.
Humans with olfactory loss have been found to exhibit a decreased sensitivity of the chemosensory trigeminal system. It is not clear, whether the reduced trigeminal sensitivity is restricted to the chemosensitive properties of the trigeminal nerve, or whether it reflects a general decrease of trigeminal sensitivity which is also found for cutaneous afferents. To investigate the relationship between cutaneous somatosensory and intranasal chemosensory trigeminal sensitivity, 91 subjects were investigated. Forty-five of them were considered healthy controls, whereas 46 subjects had olfactory dysfunction. Subjects with olfactory dysfunction were found to have higher thresholds for CO2 than controls indicating lower trigeminal chemosensory sensitivity in subjects with olfactory dysfunction. Both etiology and degree of olfactory dysfunction appeared to have an impact on CO2 thresholds. In contrast, no such differences were found with regard to detection thresholds for electrical cutaneous stimulation. These results indicate that the decrease of trigeminal sensitivity in subjects with olfactory dysfunction is specific for chemosensory sensations.

The enhanced production of nitric oxide (NO) via inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) has been implicated in the pathogenesis of neuronal apoptosis after acute traumatic spinal cord injury (SCI). In the present study, to further characterize the pathways mediating the synthesis and release of NO, we examined activation of extracellular signal regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinases (p38 MAPK) in microglia/macrophages in the injured area of adult rats subjected to a complete transection at the T10 vertebrae level and assessed their role in NO production and survival of neurons by using immunohistochemistry, Western blot, RT-PCR and pharmacological interventions. Results showed activation of microglia/macrophages featured by morphological changes, as visualized immunohistochemically with the marker OX-42, in the areas adjacent to the lesion epicenter 1 h after surgery. Concomitantly, iNOS mRNA and its protein in the activated microglia/macrophages were also significantly upregulated at early hours after surgery. Their levels were maximal at 6 h, persisted for at least 24 h, and returned to basal level 72 h after SCI. Furthermore, phosphorylated ERK1/2 and p38 MAPK were activated as well in microglia/macrophages in injured area with a similar time course as iNOS. With administration of L-NAME, a NOS inhibitor, the number of apoptotic neurons was clearly decreased, as assessed with TUNEL method at 24 h after SCI. In parallel, loss of neurons induced by SCI, assessed with NeuN immunohistochemistry, was also diminished. Moreover, the effect of inhibition of phosphorylation ERK1/2 and p38 MAPK by corresponding inhibitors PD98059 and SB203580 administered before and after SCI was also investigated. Inhibition of p38 effectively reduced iNOS mRNA expression and rescued neurons from apoptosis and death in the area adjacent to the lesion epicenter; whereas the inhibition of ERK1/2 had a smaller effect on decrease of iNOS mRNA and no long-term protective effect on cell loss. These results indicate the ERK1/2 and p38 MAPK signaling pathway, especially the latter, play an important role in NO-mediated degeneration of neuron in the spinal cord following SCI. Strategies directed to blocking the initiation of this cascade prove to be beneficial for the treatment of acute SCI.


Various studies suggest that proteolytic activity may be involved in a number of neurodegenerative disorders, including stroke and seizure. In this report, we examined the role of tryptic serine proteases, plasminogen activators (PAs), in the evolution of a neurodegenerative disease. Transgenic mice overexpressing an axonally secreted inhibitor of serine proteases (neuroserpin) were crossed with mice characterized by a &quot;dying-back&quot; motor neuron disease [progressive motor neuronopathy (pmn/pmn)]. Compared with pmn/pmn mice that showed an increase in PA activity, double mutant mice had decreased PA activity in sciatic nerves and spinal cord; their lifespan was increased by 50%, their motor behavior was stabilized, and histological analysis revealed increased numbers of myelinated axons and rescue of motoneuron number and size. This is the first report showing that a class of serine proteases (PAs) may be involved in the pathogenesis of a motor neuron disease and more specifically in axonal degeneration. Inhibiting serine proteases could offer a new strategy for delaying these disorders.
Previous studies focusing on the temporal rules governing changes in synaptic strength during spike timing-dependent synaptic plasticity (STDP) have paid little attention to the fact that synaptic inputs are distributed across complex dendritic trees. During STDP, propagation of action potentials (APs) back to the site of synaptic input is thought to trigger plasticity. However, in pyramidal neurons, backpropagation of single APs is decremental, whereas high-frequency bursts lead to generation of distal dendritic calcium spikes. This raises the question whether STDP learning rules depend on synapse location and firing mode. Here, we investigate this issue at synapses between layer 2/3 and layer 5 pyramidal neurons in somatosensory cortex. We find that low-frequency pairing of single APs at positive times leads to a distance-dependent shift to long-term depression (LTD) at distal inputs. At proximal sites, this LTD could be converted to long-term potentiation (LTP) by dendritic depolarizations suprathreshold for BAC-firing or by high-frequency AP bursts. During AP bursts, we observed a progressive, distance-dependent shift in the timing requirements for induction of LTP and LTD, such that distal synapses display novel timing rules: they potentiate when inputs are activated after burst onset (negative timing) but depress when activated before burst onset (positive timing). These findings could be explained by distance-dependent differences in the underlying dendritic voltage waveforms driving NMDA receptor activation during STDP induction. Our results suggest that synapse location within the dendritic tree is a crucial determinant of STDP, and that synapses undergo plasticity according to local rather than global learning rules.
The importance of the lateral hypothalamus in the regulation of reward and motivation has long been recognized. However, the neuronal network involved in such a hypothalamic regulation of reward remains essentially unknown. Recently, hypocretin-containing neurons, a group of hypothalamic neurons known to be associated with the stability of arousal, have emerged as important structures in the control of brain reward function. This review summarizes a Mini-Symposium presented at the 2006 Annual Meeting of the Society for Neuroscience.


Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) is an inherited retinal dystrophy caused by the loss of photoreceptors and characterized by retinal pigment deposits visible on fundus examination. Prevalence of non syndromic RP is approximately 1/4,000. The most common form of RP is a rod-cone dystrophy, in which the first symptom is night blindness, followed by the progressive loss in the peripheral visual field in daylight, and eventually leading to blindness after several decades. Some extreme cases may have a rapid evolution over two decades or a slow progression that never leads to blindness. In some cases, the clinical presentation is a cone-rod dystrophy, in which the decrease in visual acuity predominates over the visual field loss. RP is usually non syndromic but there are also many syndromic forms, the most frequent being Usher syndrome. To date, 45 causative genes/loci have been identified in non syndromic RP (for the autosomal dominant, autosomal recessive, X-linked, and digenic forms). Clinical diagnosis is based on the presence of night blindness and peripheral visual field defects, lesions in the fundus, hypovolted electroretinogram traces, and progressive worsening of these signs. Molecular diagnosis can be made for some genes, but is not usually performed due to the tremendous genetic heterogeneity of the disease. Genetic counseling is always advised. Currently, there is no therapy that stops the evolution of the disease or restores the vision, so the visual prognosis is poor. The therapeutic approach is restricted to slowing down the degenerative process by sunlight protection and vitaminotherapy, treating the complications (cataract and macular edema), and helping patients to cope with the social and psychological impact of blindness. However, new therapeutic strategies are emerging from intensive research (gene therapy, neuroprotection, retinal prosthesis).
The understanding of autism has improved with neurosciences, especially with genetics, molecular biology and cerebral neuroimaging. This trouble looks much more heterogenous than expected, from a clinical and an etiological point of view as well. No clear pathopsychological model about the syndromes of the autistic spectrum can so far be proposed but several scientific breakthroughs seem interesting.
The human brain contains specialized circuits for observing and understanding actions. Previous studies have not distinguished whether this &quot;mirror system&quot; uses specialized motor representations or general processes of visual inference and knowledge to understand observed actions. We report the first neuroimaging study to distinguish between these alternatives. Purely motoric influences on perception have been shown behaviorally, but their neural bases are unknown. We used fMRI to reveal the neural bases of motor influences on action observation. We controlled for visual and knowledge effects by studying expert dancers. Some ballet moves are performed by only one gender. However, male and female dancers train together and have equal visual familiarity with all moves. Male and female dancers viewed videos of gender-specific male and female ballet moves. We found greater premotor, parietal, and cerebellar activity when dancers viewed moves from their own motor repertoire, compared to opposite-gender moves that they frequently saw but did not perform. Our results show that mirror circuits have a purely motor response over and above visual representations of action. We understand actions not only by visual recognition, but also motorically. In addition, we confirm that the cerebellum is part of the action observation network.
'Form follows function' is an architectural philosophy attributed to the great American architect Louis Sullivan, and later taken up by the Bauhaus movement. It stresses that the form of a building should reflect its function. Neuroscientists have used the converse of this dictum to learn the functions of neural circuits, believing that if we study neural architecture, it will lead us to an understanding of how neural systems function. New tools for studying the structure of neural circuits are being developed, so it is important to discuss what the old techniques have taught us about how to derive function from the form of a neural circuit.
Cannabinoids are known to possess both anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective effects. In the present study, we have investigated the ability of cannabinoids to inhibit the transmigration of neutrophils in response to chemotaxic stimuli. The cannabinoid receptor agonist WIN 55,212-2 ((R)-(+)-[2,3-dihydro-5-methyl-3-(4-morpholinylmethyl)-pyrrolo[1,2,3-de]-1,4-benzoxazin-6-yl]-1-naphthalenylmethanone mesylate) significantly decreased the number of migrating neutrophils across a monolayer of tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) activated ECV304 cells at concentrations &gt;or=1 microM. In contrast, the agonists HU210 and CP 55,940 (0.01-1 microM) and the endocannabinoid anandamide (0.1-10 microM) were without significant effect on the response to TNF-alpha. The ability of WIN 55,212-2 to reduce the neutrophil transmigration was still seen in the presence of the cannabinoid CB(1) receptor antagonist/inverse agonist AM251 (0.1-1 microM) and the cannabinoid CB(2) receptor antagonist/inverse agonist AM630 (0.1-1 microM). TNF-alpha treatment of ECV304 cells caused release of interleukin-8 (IL-8), but WIN 55,212-2 did not affect either the ability of neutrophils to migrate across chemotaxis plates in response to an IL-8 stimulus, or to change the percentage of CXC 1 and CXC 2 receptors expressed by the neutrophils. WIN 55,212-2 at a concentration of 1 microM, but not at lower concentrations, produced a significant inhibition of IL-8 release from ECV304 cells in response to TNF-alpha-stimulation. Thus WIN 55,212-2 reduces the transmigration of neutrophils across a monolayer of TNF-alpha-activated ECV304 cells by an indirect action upon the release of IL-8 and/or other chemokine release from the ECV304 cells, and that this effect is brought about mainly by a cannabinoid CB receptor-independent mechanism.
Monoamine oxidase (MAO) is a mitochondrial flavoprotein involved in the metabolism of, e.g., aminergic neurotransmitters and the parkinsonism-inducing neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,5,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). We have reported earlier MPTP-related alterations of brain catecholaminergic system in zebrafish (Danio rerio) brain. Here we describe the structural and functional properties of zebrafish MAO and the distribution of MAO mRNA and activity in zebrafish brain. The gene is located in chromosome 9 and consists of 15 exons. The amino acid composition of the active center resembles both human MAO-A and MAO-B. The enzyme displayed the highest substrate specificity for tyramine, followed by serotonin, phenylethylamine, MPTP, and dopamine; isoform-specific antagonists blocked the activity of the enzyme with equal potency. Zebrafish MAO mRNA, which was present in several tissues, and enzyme displayed differential distribution in the brain; dopaminergic cell clusters had low to moderate levels of MAO activity, whereas the highest levels of MAO activity were detected in noradrenergic and serotonergic cell groups and the habenulointerpeduncular pathway, including its caudal projection to the medial ventral rhombencephalon. The results of this study confirm the presence of functionally active MAO in zebrafish brain and other tissues and characterize the neural systems that express MAO and areas of intense activity in the brain. They also suggest that MPTP toxicity not related to MAO may affect the zebrafish brain.
In eight women treated with lamotrigine monotherapy, the lamotrigine dose/plasma concentration (D/C) ratio increased by 295% from baseline outside pregnancy to midgestation, whereas in six women treated with lamotrigine in combination with valproate, the increase was only 60%. No difference in lamotrigine D/C ratio was found between users and nonusers of oral contraceptives comedicated with valproate. Valproate seems to reduce the induction of lamotrigine metabolism associated with pregnancy or use of contraceptives.
Many of the motoric features that define Parkinson's disease (PD) result primarily from the loss of dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra. l-dopa remains at present the most powerful symptomatic drug for the treatment of this condition. However, motor complications of chronic l-dopa treatment have emerged as a major limitation of this therapy. Slowing or delaying the progression of the disease with neuroprotective therapies may delay the need for l-dopa. In the past few years, novel insight into the pathogenetic mechanisms of neurodegeneration in PD has been provided. Mitochondrial function deficiency, increased oxidative stress, apoptosis, excitotoxicity, and inflammation are part of the processes that ultimately result in neurodegeneration. Drugs that are now under clinical scrutiny as neuroprotectant include molecules that combine one or more of the following properties: (1) monoamine oxidase inhibition (rasagiline, safinamide); (2) mitochondrial enhancement (coenzyme Q10, creatine); (3) antiapoptotic activity; (4) anti-inflammatory activity; (5) protein aggregation inhibition; (6) neurotrophic activity. In advanced Parkinson's disease, the combination of disease progression and l-dopa therapy leads to the development of motor response complications, particularly wearing off, on off, dyskinesias and dystonias. The nonphysiologic pulsatile stimulation of striatal dopamine receptors, produced by the currently available dopaminergic drugs, may trigger a dysregulation of many neurotransmitter systems within the basal ganglia, mainly localized on medium spiny striatal neurons. These include alterations of glutamatergic, serotonergic, adrenergic and adenosine A(2A) receptors. Novel strategies for pharmacological intervention with nondopaminergic treatments hold the promise of providing effective control or reversal of motor response complications. Of particular interest are NMDA and AMPA antagonists or drugs acting on 5-HT subtype 2A, alpha2-adrenergic, and adenosine A(2) receptors. Future strategies may also target pre- and postsynaptic components that regulate firing pattern of basal ganglia neurons, such as synaptic vesicle proteins, nonsynaptic gap junction communication mechanisms, or signal transduction systems that modulate the phosphorylation state of glutamatergic receptors.
The homeobox transcription factors Engrailed-1 and Engrailed-2 are required for the survival of mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons in a cell-autonomous and gene-dose-dependent manner. Because of this requirement, the cells die by apoptosis when all four alleles of the Engrailed genes are genetically ablated (En1-/-;En2-/-). In the present study, we show that viable and fertile mice, heterozygous null for Engrailed-1 and homozygous null for Engrailed-2 (En1+/-;En2-/-), have an adult phenotype that resembles key pathological features of Parkinson's disease. Specifically, postnatal mutant mice exhibit a progressive degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra during the first 3 mo of their lives, leading to diminished storage and release of dopamine in the caudate putamen, motor deficits similar to akinesia and bradykinesia, and a lower body weight. This genetic model may provide access to the molecular etiology for Parkinson's disease and could assist in the development of novel treatments for this neurodegenerative disorder.
Methods based on the analysis of metabolic and volumetric interregional correlations have been used in neuroimaging research, yet metabolic and volumetric interregional correlations for identical regions of interest have never been compared in the same group of subjects. Magnetic resonance and [18F]-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography brain images were acquired in 59 healthy subject. Correlation matrices for relative glucose metabolic rates during a verbal learning task and for relative gray matter volumes were compiled between the manually traced mediodorsal, centromedian, and pulvinar nuclei of the thalamus and 39 cortical Brodmann's areas. Metabolic correlations between the cortex and these thalamic nuclei followed the known patterns of anatomical connectivity in non-human primates. Intercorrelations of the mediodorsal nucleus were widespread with the prefrontal cortex (9 out of 10 Brodmann's areas in the left hemisphere) and temporal lobe (10 out of 11 Brodmann's areas in the left hemisphere) while the pulvinar correlated only with the parietal and occipital cortical areas. Different correlation patterns were observed for the regional gray matter volumes whereby only the pulvinar yielded extensive cortical intercorrelations, primarily with the occipital, parietal, anterior cingulate, and orbitofrontal areas in the right hemisphere. Metabolic thalamocortical correlations were much more extensive for the mediodorsal and centromedian nuclei whereas structural correlations were more extensive for the pulvinar. Therefore, metabolic and volumetric correlational methods are sensitive to different aspects of interregional relations in the brain and their comparison in the same group of subjects may render complementary and only partially overlapping connectivity information.
Psychogenic stress may be associated with the development of mood disorders and schizophrenia. The frontal cortex (FC) regulates stress responses, and its dysfunction contributes to certain neuropsychiatric disorders. We tested the effects of exposure to predator odor stress (POS), a psychogenic stressor, on the concurrent efflux of four major neurotransmitters within the FC in mice in comparison to immobilization stress (IMS), a physical/systemic stressor. POS and IMS significantly increased efflux of acetylcholine (ACh), serotonin (5-HT) and dopamine (DA), but not norephinephrine, within the FC. POS produced a somewhat longer-lasting efflux of 5-HT, as compared to IMS. The effects of POS and IMS on ACh, 5-HT and DA were blocked by chlordiazepoxide. Overall, we demonstrate a novel method to measure the effects of distinctly different stress modalities on FC neurotransmission and suggest that FC responsivity to stressors may be an important marker for evaluating anxiolytic drugs.
Hippocampal cell proliferation and concomitant motor activity were examined in adult male mice (C57BL/6J) across a 12:12h light-dark cycle. 5-Bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) (200 mg/kg, i.p.) was administered at six equally spaced time points across 24h. A significant change in cell proliferation was found in the hilus (light phase&gt;dark phase), but not in the granule cell layer (GCL)/subgranular zone (SGZ). Since it is generally believed that proliferating cells in the hilus and GCL/SGZ give rise primarily to glia and neurons, respectively, these data suggest a possible circadian influence on gliogenesis, rather than neurogenesis.
The International HapMap Project and the arrival of technologies that type more than 100,000 SNPs in a single experiment have made genome-wide single nucleotide polymorphism (GW-SNP) assay a realistic endeavor. This has sparked considerable debate regarding the promise of GW-SNP typing to identify genetic association in disease. As has already been shown, this approach has the potential to localize common genetic variation underlying disease risk. The data provided from this technology also lends itself to several other lines of investigation; autozygosity mapping in consanguineous families and outbred populations, direct detection of structural variation, admixture analysis, and other population genetic approaches. In this review we will discuss the potential uses and practical application of GW-SNP typing including those above and beyond simple association testing.
Neuronal networks in vivo are characterized by considerable spontaneous activity, which is highly complex and intrinsically generated by a combination of single-cell electrophysiological properties and recurrent circuits. As seen, for example, during waking compared with being asleep or under anesthesia, neuronal responsiveness differs, concomitant with the pattern of spontaneous brain activity. This pattern, which defines the state of the network, has a dramatic influence on how local networks are engaged by inputs and, therefore, on how information is represented. We review here experimental and theoretical evidence of the decisive role played by stochastic network states in sensory responsiveness with emphasis on activated states such as waking. From single cells to networks, experiments and computational models have addressed the relation between neuronal responsiveness and the complex spatiotemporal patterns of network activity. The understanding of the relation between network state dynamics and information representation is a major challenge that will require developing, in conjunction, specific experimental paradigms and theoretical frameworks.
The fundamental building block of every nervous system is the single neuron. Understanding how these exquisitely structured elements operate is an integral part of the quest to solve the mysteries of the brain. Quantitative mathematical models have proved to be an indispensable tool in pursuing this goal. We review recent advances and examine how single-cell models on five levels of complexity, from black-box approaches to detailed compartmental simulations, address key questions about neural dynamics and signal processing.





With its hallucinations, delusions, thought disorder, and cognitive deficits, schizophrenia affects the most basic human processes of perception, emotion, and judgment. Evidence increasingly suggests that schizophrenia is a subtle disorder of brain development and plasticity. Genetic studies are beginning to identify proteins of candidate genetic risk factors for schizophrenia, including dysbindin, neuregulin 1, DAOA, COMT, and DISC1, and neurobiological studies of the normal and variant forms of these genes are now well justified. We suggest that DISC1 may offer especially valuable insights. Mechanistic studies of the properties of these candidate genes and their protein products should clarify the molecular, cellular, and systems-level pathogenesis of schizophrenia. This can help redefine the schizophrenia phenotype and shed light on the relationship between schizophrenia and other major psychiatric disorders. Understanding these basic pathologic processes may yield novel targets for the development of more effective treatments.
Ion channels are crucial elements in neuronal signaling and synaptic transmission, and defects in their function are known to underlie rare genetic disorders, including some forms of epilepsy. A second class of channelopathies, characterized by autoantibodies against ligand- and voltage-gated ion channels, cause a variety of defects in peripheral neuromuscular and ganglionic transmission. There is also emerging evidence for autoantibody-mediated mechanisms in subgroups of patients with central nervous system disorders, particularly those involving defects in cognition or sleep and often associated with epilepsy. In all autoimmune channelopathies, the relationship between autoantibody specificity and clinical phenotype is complex. But with this new information, autoimmune channelopathies are detected and treated with increasing success, and future research promises new insights into the mechanisms of dysfunction at neuronal synapses and the determinants of clinical phenotype.
The autoimmune model of multiple sclerosis (MS) pathogenesis provided for many years a useful but incomplete conceptual framework for understanding the complex array of factors that lead to the loss of immune homeostasis, myelin and axonal injury, and progressive neurological symptoms. The availability of novel tools in molecular neurogenetics and increasingly sophisticated neuroimaging technologies, together with the revitalization of MS neuropathology, has created a new paradigm for the multidisciplinary study of this disease. This is reflected by the growing resolution of the MS genomic map, discovery of delicate inflammatory networks that are perturbed in MS, identification of mediators of demyelination, and recognition that cumulative axonal loss and neuronal injury are the histological correlates of neurological disability. Together, these advances have set the stage for the development of therapeutic approaches designed to target the demyelinating and neurodegenerative components of the disease and promote repair.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is a late-onset progressive neurodegenerative disease affecting motor neurons. The etiology of most ALS cases remains unknown, but 2% of instances are due to mutations in Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1). Since sporadic and familial ALS affects the same neurons with similar pathology, it is hoped that therapies effective in mutant SOD1 models will translate to sporadic ALS. Mutant SOD1 induces non-cell-autonomous motor neuron killing by an unknown gain of toxicity. Selective vulnerability of motor neurons likely arises from a combination of several mechanisms, including protein misfolding, mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative damage, defective axonal transport, excitotoxicity, insufficient growth factor signaling, and inflammation. Damage within motor neurons is enhanced by damage incurred by nonneuronal neighboring cells, via an inflammatory response that accelerates disease progression. These findings validate therapeutic approaches aimed at nonneuronal cells.
During the first 100 years of Alzheimer's disease research, this devastating and intractable disorder has been characterized at the clinical, histological, and molecular levels. Nevertheless, many key mechanistic questions remain unanswered. Here we will emphasize the importance of the cell biology of Alzheimer's disease, reviewing the relevant literature that has expanded our mechanistic understanding, with a particular focus on pathways regulating protein sorting. Accumulated evidence indicates that sorting pathways may be uniquely vulnerable to disease pathogenesis, and recent studies have begun to reveal disease-related defects in the regulation of protein sorting.
On the 100th anniversary of Alzheimer's lecture describing the clinicopathological entity which bears his eponym, this article reviews the major areas of progress in our understanding of the disease and outlines the many gaps still remaining. The progress toward effective mechanistic therapy is reviewed.

The rapid loss of neurons is a major pathological outcome of intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). Several mechanisms may produce the neurotoxicity observed in ICH, and these include proteolytic enzymes such as thrombin and matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9). We tested the hypothesis that thrombin and MMP-9 combine to injure neurons in culture and that they interact to promote the acute neurotoxicity that occurs in ICH in vivo. We report that human fetal neurons die when exposed to thrombin or MMP-9 in isolation and that a combination of these two enzymes increased neurotoxicity. The toxicity of thrombin involved protease-activated receptor-1 and the conversion of proMMP-9 to active MMP-9. In ICH, which was induced in mice by the intracerebral injection of autologous blood, significant areas of brain damage, neuronal death, microglia/macrophage activation, and neutrophil accumulation occurred by 24 h of injury. Importantly, these neuropathological features were reduced in MMP-9 null mice compared with wild-type controls, and the concordant antagonism of thrombin using hirudin also alleviated the injury found in MMP-9 null mice. Our collective results demonstrate that thrombin and MMP-9 collaborate to promote neuronal death in culture and in ICH. To improve the prognosis of ICH, the neurotoxic actions of thrombin and MMP-9 must be inhibited early and simultaneously after injury.
Variation in gray matter (GM) and white matter (WM) volume of the adult human brain is primarily genetically determined. Moreover, total brain volume is positively correlated with general intelligence, and both share a common genetic origin. However, although genetic effects on morphology of specific GM areas in the brain have been studied, the heritability of focal WM is unknown. Similarly, it is unresolved whether there is a common genetic origin of focal GM and WM structures with intelligence. We explored the genetic influence on focal GM and WM densities in magnetic resonance brain images of 54 monozygotic and 58 dizygotic twin pairs and 34 of their siblings. For genetic analyses, we used structural equation modeling and voxel-based morphometry. To explore the common genetic origin of focal GM and WM areas with intelligence, we obtained cross-trait/cross-twin correlations in which the focal GM and WM densities of each twin are correlated with the psychometric intelligence quotient of his/her cotwin. Genes influenced individual differences in left and right superior occipitofrontal fascicle (heritability up to 0.79 and 0.77), corpus callosum (0.82, 0.80), optic radiation (0.69, 0.79), corticospinal tract (0.78, 0.79), medial frontal cortex (0.78, 0.83), superior frontal cortex (0.76, 0.80), superior temporal cortex (0.80, 0.77), left occipital cortex (0.85), left postcentral cortex (0.83), left posterior cingulate cortex (0.83), right parahippocampal cortex (0.69), and amygdala (0.80, 0.55). Intelligence shared a common genetic origin with superior occipitofrontal, callosal, and left optical radiation WM and frontal, occipital, and parahippocampal GM (phenotypic correlations up to 0.35). These findings point to a neural network that shares a common genetic origin with human intelligence.
Dendritic morphology determines many aspects of neuronal function, including action potential propagation and information processing. However, the question remains as to how distinct neuronal dendrite branching patterns are established. Here, we report that postsynaptic density-95 (PSD-95), a protein involved in dendritic spine maturation and clustering of synaptic signaling proteins, plays a novel role in regulating dendrite outgrowth and branching, independent of its synaptic functions. In immature neurons, overexpression of PSD-95 decreases the proportion of primary dendrites that undergo additional branching, resulting in a marked reduction of secondary dendrite number. Conversely, knocking down PSD-95 protein in immature neurons increases secondary dendrite number. The effect of PSD-95 is activity-independent and is antagonized by cypin, a nonsynaptic protein that regulates PSD-95 localization. Binding of cypin to PSD-95 correlates with formation of stable dendrite branches. Finally, overexpression of PSD-95 in COS-7 cells disrupts microtubule organization, indicating that PSD-95 may modulate microtubules to regulate dendritic branching. Whereas many factors have been identified which regulate dendrite number, our findings provide direct evidence that proteins primarily involved in synaptic functions can also play developmental roles in shaping how a neuron patterns its dendrite branches.


Tropomodulin, a tropomyosin-binding protein, caps the slow-growing (pointed) end of the actin filament regulating its dynamics. Tropomodulin, therefore, is important for determining cell morphology, cell movement, and muscle contraction. For the first time we show that one tropomodulin molecule simultaneously binds two tropomyosin molecules in a cooperative manner. On the basis of the tropomodulin solution structure and predicted secondary structure, we introduced a series of point mutations in regions important for tropomyosin binding and actin capping. Capping activity of these mutants was assayed by measuring actin polymerization using pyrene fluorescence. Using direct methods (circular dichroism and native gel electrophoresis) for detecting tropomodulin/tropomyosin binding, we localized the second tropomyosin-binding site to residues 109-144. Despite previous reports that the second binding site is for erythrocyte tropomyosin only, we found that both short nonmuscle and long muscle alpha-tropomyosins bind there as well, though with different affinities. We propose a model for actin capping where one tropomodulin molecule can bind to two tropomyosin molecules at the pointed end.
Spliced isoforms of the Na+/Ca2+ exchanger, NCLX, truncated at the alpha-repeat region have been identified. The activity and functional organization of such proteins are, however, poorly understood. In the present work, we have studied Na+/Ca2+ exchange mediated by single alpha-repeat constructs (alpha1 and alpha2) of NCLX. Sodium-dependent calcium transport was fluorescently detected in both the reversal and forward modes; calcium-dependent outward currents were also recorded using a whole cell patch configuration in HEK293 cells heterologously expressing either the alpha1 or alpha2 single-domain proteins. In contrast, calcium transport and reversal currents were not detected when cells were transfected with a vector or with an alpha2 mutant (alpha2-S273T). Thus, our data indicate that the single alpha-domain constructs mediate electrogenic Na+/Ca2+ exchange. The alpha1 domain, but not the alpha2, exhibited partial sensitivity to the NCX inhibitor, KB-R7943, while Li+-dependent Ca2+ efflux was detected in cells expressing either the alpha1 or alpha2 construct. The functional organization of the single alpha-domain constructs was assessed using a dominant-negative approach. Coexpression of the alpha1 or alpha2 constructs with the nonfunctional alpha2-S273T mutant had a synergistic inhibitory effect on Na+/Ca2+ transport. Dose-dependence analysis of the inhibition of alpha2 construct activity by the alpha2-S273T mutant indicated that the functional unit is either a dimer or a trimer. Immunoprecipitation analysis indicated that the alpha2 construct indeed interacts with the alpha2-S273T mutant. Taken together, our data indicate that although single alpha1 or alpha2 domain constructs are independently capable of Na+/Ca2+ exchange, oligomerization is required for their activity. Such organization may give rise to transport activity with distinct kinetic parameters and physiological roles.
Smoking during pregnancy chronically exposes the fetus to nicotine resulting in long-term behavioral and cognitive deficits. Nicotine binds to neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs), pentameric ligand-gated ion channels widely expressed in the nervous system. Chronic nicotine upregulates high-affinity nAChRs in animals and smokers. Here we determined if chronic nicotine treatment during a developmental period corresponding to the human third trimester regulates nAChR expression. Rat pups were intubated orally three times per day with or without nicotine (6 mg/kg/day) from postnatal day 1 to 8. Subunit mRNA expression was assessed by in situ hybridization. Expression of heteromeric and homomeric nAChR receptor was evaluated by autoradiography using (125)I-epibatidine and (125)I-alphabungarotoxin, respectively. nAChR expression was analyzed in cortex, hippocampus, thalamus and medial habenula from autoradiograms using computer assisted image analysis. Nicotine induced significant upregulation of heteromeric but not homomeric nAChRs in hippocampus, cortex and thalamus without changes in subunit mRNA expression. No effect of chronic nicotine on receptor expression was detected in the medial habenula, suggesting that nicotine's effect was mainly on alpha4beta2-type heteromeric nAChRs. The nicotine-induced upregulation was reversed after nicotine withdrawal. Receptor blockade by DHbetaE, an antagonist for heteromeric alpha4/beta2 nAChRs, did not prevent upregulation but increased expression to a similar degree as nicotine. Combination of both drugs had a cumulative effect. Thus, although transient, intermittent nicotine exposure as seen in smoking mothers is sufficient to upregulate heteromeric nAChRs during a critical period of brain development and could contribute to the behavioral deficits found in children whose mother smoked.
Both glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) and adenosine influence dopaminergic function in the striatum. We now evaluated the GDNF effect on dopamine release from rat striatal nerve endings and if this effect of GDNF is modulated by adenosine A(2A) receptors. Dopamine release was evoked twice (S(1) and S(2)); GDNF was added before S(2) and drugs used to modify GDNF actions were present during both stimulation periods. The effect of GDNF was taken as the change in the S(2)/S(1) ratio in the absence and in the presence of GDNF in the same experimental conditions. GDNF (3-30 ng/ml) increased dopamine release from K(+) (20 mM, 2 min) stimulated synaptosomes and electrically (2 Hz, 2 min) stimulated striatal slices, an effect dependent upon tonic adenosine A(2A) receptor activation, since it was blocked by the A(2A) receptor antagonist, SCH 58261 (50 nM). Activation of A(2A) receptors with CGS 21680 (10 nM) potentiated the effect of GDNF in synaptosomes. CGS 21680 also potentiated the effect of GDNF in striatal slices, providing that GABAergic transmission was inhibited; if not, the action of GDNF was attenuated by CGS 21680. Blockade of GABAergic transmission per se increased dopamine release, but attenuated the effect of GDNF upon dopamine release in slices. The results suggest that GDNF enhances dopamine release by acting presynaptically at the striatum, an action that requires adenosine A(2A) receptor activity. Furthermore, in striatal slices, the action of GDNF as well as its modulation by adenosine A(2A) receptor activation appears to be also under control of GABAergic transmission.
The neurotoxicity of manganese [Mn] is due in part to glutamate excitotoxicity. Release of ATP by astrocytes is a critical modulator of glutamatergic neurotransmission, which is regulated by calcium (Ca(2+)) waves that propagate through astrocytic networks in response to synaptic activity. It was postulated that Mn alters ATP-dependent intracellular Ca(2+) dynamics in astrocytes, thereby suppressing Ca(2+) wave activity. Confluent primary cultures of cortical astrocytes were loaded with the Ca(2+)-sensitive dye fluo-4 and examined by fluorescence microscopy for Ca(2+) wave activity following micropipet mechanical stimulation of a single cell. Mitochondrial Ca(2+) was evaluated by fluorescence microscopy following addition of ATP using the mitochondrial-specific Ca(2+) dye rhod-2-AM. Imaging studies revealed that pretreatment of astrocytes with 1-10 microM Mn significantly reduced the rate, area, and amplitude of mechanically induced Ca(2+) waves. This attenuation was not a result of inhibited mitochondrial calcium uptake because robust calcium waves were still observed following pretreatment of astrocytes with Ru360, an inhibitor of mitochondrial Ca(2+) uptake, either in coupling or uncoupling conditions. However, determination of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) Ca(2+) levels in cells using the sarco/endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-ATPase inhibitor thapsigargin indicated that Mn reduced the available pool of releasable ER Ca(2+) at concentrations as low as 1 muM. Examination of ATP-stimulated changes in mitochondrial Ca(2+) indicated that, in cells pretreated with Mn, mitochondria retained high levels of Ca(2+). It is concluded that exposure of astrocytes to low concentrations of Mn(2+) results in sequestration of Ca(2+) within the mitochondria that reduces the available pool of releasable Ca(2+) within the ER, thereby inhibiting calcium wave activity.
Dendritic spines are small protrusions that receive 90% of excitatory cortical synapses and are critically important to neural function. Each dendritic spine is supported by a dynamic actin cytoskeleton that responds to internal and external cues to allow spine development, elongation, retraction and movement. Multiple proteins have roles in spinogenesis, but until now, a regulatory role for actin itself has not been established. Here, we show that, in the acute slice preparation, actin expression increases during a period of rapid spinogenesis. Furthermore, actin overexpression in organotypic hippocampal cultures leads to a significant increase in spine density on CA1 pyramidal cells. Specifically, the number of filopodia (long, thin protrusions without heads) increases by 38% on secondary apical dendrites and 88% on basal dendrites and the number of elongated spines with heads increases by 162% on secondary apical dendrites and 113% on basal dendrites. Synapsin-I immunostaining demonstrated that the majority of filopodia and elongated spines are apposed by axon terminals. Additionally, we show that overexpressed actin enters both new and established spines within 24 h. These data demonstrate that neurons undertaking spinogenesis upregulate actin expression, that actin overexpression per se increases spine density, and that both new and established spines incorporate exogenous actin.
Marijuana is a widely abused illicit drug known to cause significant cognitive impairments. Marijuana has been hypothesized to target neurons in the hippocampus because of the abundance of cannabinoid receptors present in this structure. While there is no clear evidence of neuropathology in vivo, suppression of brain mitogenesis, and ultimately neurogenesis, may provide a sensitive index of marijuana's more subtle effects on neural mechanisms subserving cognitive functions. We examined the effects of different doses and treatment regimens of Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the main active ingredient in marijuana, on cell proliferation in the dentate gyrus of adult male mice. Following drug treatment, the thymidine analog 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU; 200 mg/kg, i.p.) was administered two hours prior to sacrifice to assess cell proliferation, the first step in neurogenesis. Administration of THC produced dose-dependent catalepsy and suppression of motor activity. The number of BrdU-labeled cells was not significantly changed from vehicle control levels following either acute (1, 3, 10, 30 mg/kg, i.p.), sequential (two injections of 10 or 30 mg/kg, i.p., separated by 5 h), or chronic escalating (20 to 80 mg/kg, p.o.; for 3 weeks) drug administration. Furthermore, acute administration of the potent synthetic cannabinoid receptor agonist R-(+)-WIN 55,212-2 (WIN; 5 mg/kg, i.p.) also had no significant effect on cell proliferation. These findings provide no evidence for an effect of THC on hippocampal cell proliferation, even at doses producing gross behavioral intoxication. Whether marijuana or THC affects neurogenesis remains to be explored.
A number of clinical studies in which early adversities were defined retrospectively, demonstrated that early adverse experiences increased the morbidity rate of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) in later life. However, no prospective studies have yet been conducted to elucidate whether early adversity affects the risk or severity of PTSD. Thus, we examined whether early adversity would strengthen the severity of PTSD symptoms in later life by using neonatal isolation (NI) and single prolonged stress (SPS) as an animal model of PTSD. We measured anxiety-like behavior in the elevated plus maze (EPM), contextual freezing in the contextual fear (CF) test, and analgesia in the flinch-jump and hot-plate tests in four groups of adult rats (sham, NI, SPS, and NI+SPS). NI significantly enhanced the SPS-induced decrease in the percentage of open arm time and open arm entries in the EPM, enhanced the SPS-induced increase in contextual freezing, and strengthened SPS-induced analgesia, without any changes in locomotor activity in the open field locomotor test. In addition, we examined the effect of environmental enrichment (EE). Repeated exposure to EE ameliorated the NI-induced enhancement of contextual freezing, but not anxiety-like behavior or analgesia, in response to SPS. The results of the present study demonstrated that while early adversity strengthened PTSD-like symptoms, EE alleviated the enhanced contextual freezing by NI and SPS. These findings suggest that early adversity may worsen dysfunction of the amygdala and hippocampus in PTSD, and an early intervention may alleviate the early adversity-mediated enhancement of hippocampal dysfunction in PTSD.
The present study aimed at characterizing the acute and intermittent psychomotor responsiveness to cocaine in mice lacking the MCHR1 receptor, which is thought to modulate the mesocorticolimbic sytem functioning [Smith DG, Tzavara ET, Shaw J, Luecke S, Wade M, Davis R, et al. Mesolimbic dopamine super-sensitivity in melanin-concentrating hormone-1 receptor deficient mice. J Neurosci 2005;25:914-22]. On a first free-drug session, MCHR1-deficient mice exhibited significantly higher levels of locomotor activity elicited by the novelty of the test chambers than their wild-type counterparts. On the following day session, a first injection of 6 or 12 mg/kg cocaine induced comparable dose-related psychomotor activations in both genotypes, without significant difference in the relative increase in locomotion. Over the following eight once-daily test sessions, the slight psychomotor increase induced by 6 mg/kg was equivalent in both genotypes and constant over the sessions. At 12 mg/kg, cocaine induced a clear-cut incremental responsiveness to cocaine in both genotypes on the three first sessions; on the following sessions, only the wild-types displayed an incremental responsiveness until the last session, a sensitized effect that was confirmed for the wild-types but not for the knockouts on a subsequent sensitization test (cocaine challenge). Finally, the knockouts did not exhibit any sign of cocaine-conditioning (saline challenge), contrarily to the wild-types. It is speculated that MCHR1 may contribute to the neurobiological mechanisms of conditioned cocaine-induced psychomotor effects, possibly to those underpinning sensitization, and to a lesser extent to those sub-serving acute pharmacological cocaine action.
We recently reported that systemic injections of the mGluR(2/3) agonist LY379268, which decreases evoked glutamate release, attenuate context- and discrete cue-induced reinstatement of heroin seeking, but not heroin self-administration. Here, we report that systemic injections of LY379268 attenuate context- and discrete cue-induced reinstatement of sucrose seeking, but not sucrose self-administration. These results suggest that similar neuronal mechanisms mediate cue-induced relapse to opiate- and palatable food seeking.
Recent findings suggest that Alzheimer's dementia may be mediated by soluble beta amyloid (Abeta) more than the deposits of aggregated, insoluble Abeta, and vulnerability to cognitive deficits after scopolamine challenge may help identify AD even in patients that are still pre-symptomatic. The objectives of the present experiments were to determine if vulnerability to cognitive deficits after scopolamine challenge is related to levels of soluble Abeta, and if levels of soluble Abeta are more closely related to cognitive deficits than levels of insoluble Abeta, even in aged, transgenic mice, after they have developed very high levels of insoluble Abeta. Aged F-344 rats and young mice over-expressing the Swedish mutation in the human amyloid precursor protein (APPsw; Tg2576+) had elevated levels of soluble Abeta, and were more vulnerable to scopolamine challenge in the Morris water maze (MWM), relative to young rats and Tg2576- mice; but, among individual animals, higher levels of soluble Abeta were not correlated with vulnerability to scopolamine. On the other hand, in aged Tg2576+ mice, cognitive deficits were related to levels of soluble Abeta, not insoluble Abeta, despite the fact that the levels of insoluble Abeta were thousands of times higher than the levels of soluble Abeta. The results of the present experiments suggest that vulnerability to cognitive deficits after scopolamine challenge is not related to elevated levels of soluble Abeta, but that high levels of soluble Abeta are more closely correlated with cognitive deficits than the amount insoluble Abeta, even after large amounts of aggregated, insoluble Abeta have been deposited.
Orexin containing neurons in the lateral hypothalamic area (LHA) produce orexin-A (hypocretin-1) and orexin-B (hypocretin-2) and send their axons to the hippocampus, which predominantly expresses orexin 1 receptors (OX1Rs) showing a higher affinity to orexin-A. Recent studies have shown that central administration of orexin-A has an effect on learning and memory but literature concerning the role of orexinergic system in cognition remains controversial. Therefore, we examined the effect of pre-training, post-training and pre-probe trial intrahippocampal CA1 administration of a selective OX1R the orexin 1 receptor antagonist SB-334867-A (1.5, 3, 6 microg/0.5 microl) on acquisition, consolidation and retrieval in a single-day testing version of Morris water maze (MWM) task. Our results show that, SB-334867-A impaired acquisition, consolidation and retrieval of MWM task as compared with the control group. This drug had no effect on escape latency of a non-spatial visual discrimination task. Therefore, it seems that endogenous orexins, especially orexin-A, play an important role in spatial learning and memory in the rat.
Walking onto a stationary platform previously experienced as moving results in a large forward sway, despite awareness of the changing context. This after-effect demonstrates aberrant motor prediction. Here, we compared after-effect magnitude when gait initiation was either externally triggered or self-initiated. Both participant groups adapted their walking speed similarly when walking onto the moving platform. When it was kept stationary however, after-effect magnitude was more than doubled in the self-initiated group. We attribute this to a stronger association made between the action (gait initiation) and its consequence (platform movement) when the action is initiated by oneself. This increased sense of agency reduces the ability to switch off the acquired motor response when it is no longer appropriate.
This study reports the effects of intraoperative stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus on brain electrical activity in advanced Parkinson's patients. To our knowledge, this is the first study about electroencephalographic responses in the very early phase of deep brain stimulation, during the implantation of the electrodes. We found an increase of gamma band bilaterally over the sensorimotor cortex in the range 45-55 Hz, which was associated with clinical improvement as assessed by means of muscle rigidity decrease. These results indicate that the electroencephalographic gamma responses to deep brain stimulation are present at the very beginning of the treatment process, and may help better understand the short and long-tem effects of deep brain stimulation.
Altered activity of the globus pallidus externus (GPe) is responsible for at least part of the cognitive and motor symptoms of Huntington's disease (HD). In this study, we tested the hypothesis that bilateral globus pallidus (GP; equivalent of GPe in primates) deep brain stimulation (DBS) improves cognitive and motor symptoms in the first transgenic rat model of HD (tgHD rats). GP DBS with clinically relevant stimulation parameters resulted in a significant improvement of cognitive dysfunction and reduced the number of choreiform movements. This data indicate that GPe DBS can be used to treat cognitive and motor dysfunction in HD.
For the analysis of the cellular mechanism underlying long-term synaptic plasticity, a model system that allows long-lasting pursuit is required. Previously we reported that, in hippocampal neurons under dissociated cell culture conditions, repeated (but not a single) transient activation of protein kinase A (PKA) led to an increase in the number of synapses that lasted &gt;3 weeks, and hence we proposed that this phenomenon should serve as an appropriate model system. Here we report that repeated pulsatile application of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) leads to persistent synapse formation equivalent to that after the repeated transient activation of PKA. A BDNF-scavenging substance applied concomitantly with PKA activation abolished the synapse formation. The release of BDNF upon PKA activation was confirmed by phosphorylation of TrkB. These results indicate that the release of BDNF is involved in the putative signaling cascade connecting PKA activation and synapse formation.
Severe sepsis is a complex syndrome often resulting in multiple organ dysfunction. This is an extremely challenging problem to manage in the intensive care unit, with mortality rates remaining at unacceptably high levels. Death of patients afflicted by this condition generally results from organ dysfunction syndromes related to hypoperfusion abnormalities. Management of patients with severe sepsis or septic shock can be very complex and challenging, utilizing a significant amount of resources. Pharmacologic support of patients with severe sepsis or septic shock primarily involves agents to support and improve perfusion at the microvascular level. It is important to understand the pharmacologic properties of the medications utilized to manage patients with these conditions. The information presented in this article is based on the best evidence currently available in order to assist the critical care nurse in understanding the pharmacologic therapy related to treatment of severe sepsis and septic shock.

Caveolin-3 is a muscle-specific membrane protein that serves as a scaffold of various molecules. As previously reported, caveolin-3 deficiency causes muscle degeneration in mice. In the present study, gene expression profiles, analyzed in the skeletal muscles of caveolin-3 deficient mice using the DNA microarray technique, showed that the gene of osteopontin, a versatile regulator of inflammation and tissue repair, was significantly down-regulated. This is in contrast to mdx mice showing a markedly up-regulated osteopontin gene in their skeletal muscles. Recently, osteopontin has been reported to be important in the pathogenesis of muscular dystrophy. We examined whether up-regulated osteopontin gene expression in mdx muscles is altered by the deficiency of caveolin-3. To this end, we developed caveolin-3 and dystrophin double-deficient mice and used them for the analysis. Levels of osteopontin mRNA and protein in the double-deficient mice clearly decreased compared with those in mdx mice.
The central nervous system (CNS) is, after the peripheral nervous system, the second most frequently affected organ in mitochondrial disorders (MCDs). CNS involvement in MCDs is clinically heterogeneous, manifesting as epilepsy, stroke-like episodes, migraine, ataxia, spasticity, extrapyramidal abnormalities, bulbar dysfunction, psychiatric abnormalities, neuropsychological deficits, or hypophysial abnormalities. CNS involvement is found in syndromic and non-syndromic MCDs. Syndromic MCDs with CNS involvement include mitochondrial encephalomyopathy, lactacidosis, stroke-like episodes syndrome, myoclonic epilepsy and ragged red fibers syndrome, mitochondrial neuro-gastrointestinal encephalomyopathy syndrome, neurogenic muscle weakness, ataxia, and retinitis pigmentosa syndrome, mitochondrial depletion syndrome, Kearns-Sayre syndrome, and Leigh syndrome, Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy, Friedreich's ataxia, and multiple systemic lipomatosis. As CNS involvement is often subclinical, the CNS including the spinal cord should be investigated even in the absence of overt clinical CNS manifestations. CNS investigations comprise the history, clinical neurological examination, neuropsychological tests, electroencephalogram, cerebral computed tomography scan, and magnetic resonance imaging. A spinal tap is indicated if there is episodic or permanent impaired consciousness or in case of cognitive decline. More sophisticated methods are required if the CNS is solely affected. Treatment of CNS manifestations in MCDs is symptomatic and focused on epilepsy, headache, lactacidosis, impaired consciousness, confusion, spasticity, extrapyramidal abnormalities, or depression. Valproate, carbamazepine, corticosteroids, acetyl salicylic acid, local and volatile anesthetics should be applied with caution. Avoiding certain drugs is often more beneficial than application of established, apparently indicated drugs.
The receptor for advanced glycation end products (RAGE) is thought to be a primary transporter of beta-amyloid across the blood-brain barrier (BBB) into the brain from the systemic circulation, while the low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein (LRP)-1 mediates transport of beta-amyloid out of the brain. To determine whether there are Alzheimer's disease (AD)-related changes in these BBB-associated beta-amyloid receptors, we studied RAGE, LRP-1, and beta-amyloid in human elderly control and AD hippocampi. In control hippocampi, there was robust RAGE immunoreactivity in neurons, whereas microvascular staining was barely detectable. LRP-1 staining, in contrast, was clearly evident within microvessels but only weakly stained neurons. In AD cases, neuronal RAGE immunoreactivity was significantly decreased. An unexpected finding was the strongly positive microvascular RAGE immunoreactivity. No evidence for colocalization of RAGE and beta-amyloid was seen within either microvessels or senile plaques. A reversed pattern was evident for LRP-1 in AD. There was very strong staining for LRP-1 in neurons, with minimal microvascular staining. Unlike RAGE, colocalization of LRP-1 and beta-amyloid was clearly present within senile plaques but not microvessels. Western blot analysis revealed a much higher concentration of RAGE protein in AD hippocampi as compared with controls. Concentration of LRP-1 was increased in AD hippocampi, likely secondary to its colocalization with senile plaques. These data confirm that AD is associated with changes in the relative distribution of RAGE and LRP-1 receptors in human hippocampus. They also suggest that the proportion of amyloid within the brains of AD patients that is derived from the systemic circulation may be significant.
Electrophysiological studies in subjects with HIV/AIDS demonstrate subtle changes in the visual pathway even in the absence of visual symptoms. But the pathological correlate of the electrophysiological abnormalities is largely unknown. This study attempts to correlate pathological changes in the retina and intraorbital portion of optic nerve in four drug nave patients of AIDS caused by HIV-1 clade C, who had abnormalities in the visual evoked potentials recorded antemortem. Three had no visual complaints and one patient had sudden loss of vision in the right eye. In all four patients, the visual evoked potentials disclosed variable prolongation of P100 latencies. Histologically axonal cytoskeletal breakdown and depletion in the optic nerves was the cardinal finding with variable myelin loss, even in the absence of overt visual dysfunction, or infective retinitis. The axonal loss was maximal in the symptomatic case. Retinal ganglion cell depletion was seen in only two patients. Sectoral infiltration of the optic nerve by cryptococci and Cryptococcal choroiditis was the only opportunistic infection to involve the eye. Axonal pathology in the optic nerve appears to be related to the abnormalities recorded in visual evoked potentials even in the absence of overt clinical symptoms. Opportunistic infections could be contributing to the axonal pathology in the optic nerve in patients with AIDS.



Sir2 is an NAD+-dependent deacetylase that regulates lifespan in yeast, worms and flies. The mammalian orthologs of Sir2 include SIRT1 in humans and mice. In this study, we analyzed the level of SIRT1 in human lung fibroblasts (IMR90) and mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) from mice with normal, accelerated, and delayed aging. SIRT1 protein, but not mRNA, decreased significantly with serial cell passage in both human and murine cells. Mouse SIRT1 decreased rapidly in prematurely senescent (p44 Tg) MEFs, remained high in MEFs with delayed senescence (Igf-1r-/-), and was inversely correlated with senescence-activated beta-galactosidase (SA-betaGal) activity. Reacquisition of mitotic capability following spontaneous immortalization of serially passaged wild-type MEFs restored the level of SIRT1 to that of early passage, highly proliferative MEFs. In mouse and human fibroblasts, we found a significant positive correlation between the levels of SIRT1 and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), a DNA processing factor expressed during S-phase. In the animal, we found that SIRT1 decreased with age in tissues in which mitotic activity also declines, such as the thymus and testis, but not in tissues such as the brain in which there is little change in mitotic activity throughout life. Again, the decreases in SIRT1 were highly correlated with decreases in PCNA. Finally, loss of SIRT1 with age was accelerated in mice with accelerated aging but was not observed in long-lived growth hormone-receptor knockout mice. Thus, as mitotic activity ceases in mouse and human cells in the normal environment of the animal or in the culture dish, there is a concomitant decline in the level of SIRT1.

Ethanol (EtOH) damages the hippocampus, a brain region that is involved in learning and memory processes. The mechanisms responsible for this effect of EtOH are not fully understood. We recently demonstrated that acute EtOH exposure potently stimulates oscillatory activity driven by the excitatory actions of GABA in the CA3 region of the neonatal rat hippocampus. This activity can be recorded during the growth spurt period as giant depolarizing potentials (GDPs). Here, we characterized the effects of prolonged EtOH exposure on GDPs. In the first study, we prepared hippocampal coronal slices from neonatal rats and exposed these to control artificial cerebrospinal fluid (ACSF) or ACSF plus 50 mM EtOH for 3-4 h. We then performed whole-cell patch-clamp electrophysiological recordings from CA3 pyramidal neurons, which revealed that tolerance to the GDP stimulating effects of EtOH did not occur after continuous exposure. In the second study, we exposed neonatal rats to air or air plus 1.9 g/dl EtOH in vapor chambers for 4h/day for 1 or 3 days (neonatal peak blood EtOH concentration = 40-45 mM). We then performed slice electrophysiological studies 24 h after the end of EtOH exposure and found that there was no statistically significant difference in the acute effect of 50 mM EtOH on GDP frequency in samples from neonates exposed to air or air plus EtOH. These findings indicate that EtOH persistently stimulates network-driven oscillatory activity in the developing hippocampus. We propose that the lack of adaptive response to continuous EtOH exposure could make immature neuronal networks particularly vulnerable to the actions of this agent.




The validity and reliability of clinic-based and telephone-based versions of a 4 word delayed recall test were evaluated in nondemented elderly individuals (n=644) participating in a simulated primary prevention clinical trial. There was no significant difference in the average scores achieved by participants tested in clinic (mean=3.40) or by telephone (mean=3.47) and the 2 groups had similar distributions of scores. Delayed recall scores were significantly, but weakly, correlated with scores on a rigorous verbal memory task, were lower in participants in Clinical Dementia Rating stage 0.5 than in those in Clinical Dementia Rating stage 0, and were lower in those with subjective memory complaints than in those without complaints. There was only fair correspondence between scores achieved at initial testing and 3 months later for both versions of the test. There were no differences in the average scores achieved by men or women, those older (age 80 to 93) or younger (age 75 to 79) than age 80, or those with white or nonwhite ethnicity. Participants with low education scored significantly lower than those with high education. Results suggest that clinic-based and telephone-based versions of the Four Word Delayed Recall Test are valid and reliable and can be used to screen for possible memory deficits in elderly individuals. However, the psychometric properties of the test are relatively weak and do not support the general use of the test for clinical and research purposes if the use of a more rigorous memory test with a wider range of possible scores is feasible.


Recapitulation of tau pathologies in an animal model has been a long-standing goal in neurodegenerative disease research. We generated transgenic (TgTauP301L) mice expressing a frontotemporal dementia with parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17 (FTPD-17) mutation within the longest form of tau (2N, 4R). TgTauP301L mice developed florid pathology including neuronal pretangles, numerous Gallyas-Braak-positive neurofibrillary tangles, and glial fibrillary tangles in the frontotemporal areas of the cerebrum, in the brainstem, and to a lesser extent in the spinal cord. These features were accompanied by gliosis, neuronal loss, and cerebral atrophy. Accumulated tau was hyperphosphorylated, conformationally changed, ubiquitinated, and sarkosyl-insoluble, with electron microscopy demonstrating wavy filaments. Aged TgTauP301L mice exhibited impairment in hippocampally dependent and independent behavioral paradigms, with impairments closely related to the presence of tau pathologies and levels of insoluble tau protein. We conclude that TgTauP301L mice recreate the substantial phenotypic variation and spectrum of pathologies seen in FTDP-17 patients. Identification of genetic and/or environmental factors modifying the tau phenotype in these mice may shed light on factors modulating human tauopathies. These transgenic mice may aid therapeutic development for FTDP-17 and other diseases featuring accumulations of four-repeat tau, such as Alzheimer's disease, corticobasal degeneration, and progressive supranuclear palsy.
We report a 76-yr-old man with left femoral nerve distribution weakness resulting from a nontraumatic retroperitoneal hematoma associated with coumadin anticoagulation. Although electric root stimulation was relatively contraindicated, magnetic lumbosacral root stimulation identified a proximal conduction block allowing more extensive assessment of the nerve damage. To our knowledge, this is the first report of magnetic root stimulation in assessment of lumbosacral plexus dysfunction in retroperitoneal hematoma.
Secretion of Cl(-) and K(+) in the colonic epithelium operates through a cellular mechanism requiring K(+) channels in the basolateral and apical membranes. Transepithelial current [short-circuit current (I(sc))] and conductance (G(t)) were measured for isolated distal colonic mucosa during secretory activation by epinephrine (Epi) or PGE(2) and synergistically by PGE(2) and carbachol (PGE(2) + CCh). TRAM-34 at 0.5 microM, an inhibitor of K(Ca)3.1 (IK, Kcnn4) K(+) channels (H. Wulff, M. J. Miller, W. Hnsel, S. Grissmer, M. D. Cahalan, and K. G. Chandy. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 97: 8151-8156, 2000), did not alter secretory I(sc) or G(t) in guinea pig or rat colon. The presence of K(Ca)3.1 in the mucosa was confirmed by immunoblot and immunofluorescence detection. At 100 microM, TRAM-34 inhibited I(sc) and G(t) activated by Epi ( approximately 4%), PGE(2) ( approximately 30%) and PGE(2) + CCh ( approximately 60%). The IC(50) of 4.0 microM implicated involvement of K(+) channels other than K(Ca)3.1. The secretory responses augmented by the K(+) channel opener 1-EBIO were inhibited only at a high concentration of TRAM-34, suggesting further that K(Ca)3.1 was not involved. Sensitivity of the synergistic response (PGE(2) + CCh) to a high concentration TRAM-34 supported a requirement for multiple K(+) conductive pathways in secretion. Clofilium (100 microM), a quaternary ammonium, inhibited Cl(-) secretory I(sc) and G(t) activated by PGE(2) ( approximately 20%) but not K(+) secretion activated by Epi. Thus Cl(-) secretion activated by physiological secretagogues occurred without apparent activity of K(Ca)3.1 channels but was dependent on other types of K(+) channels sensitive to high concentrations of TRAM-34 and/or clofilium.
We have recently shown that oxytocin inhibits cell growth when the vast majority of oxytocin receptors (OTRs) are excluded from detergent-resistant membranes (DRMs; the biochemical counterpart of lipid rafts), but has a strong mitogenic effect when the receptors are targeted to these plasma membrane domains upon fusion with caveolin-2, a resident raft protein. The aim of this study was to investigate whether the manipulation of total cell cholesterol can influence OTR localization and signaling. Our data indicate that cholesterol depletion in HEK-293 cells does not affect the signaling events mediated by the OTRs located outside DRMs. When treated with 2 mM methyl-beta-cyclodextrin (MbetaCD), the receptors remained outside and continued to inhibit cell growth. On the contrary, the MbetaCD treatment of cells expressing receptors fused to caveolin-2 led to their redistribution outside DRMs, and converted the receptor-mediated proliferative effect into cell growth inhibition. These data indicate that 1) once released from DRMs, the receptors fused to caveolin-2 signal exactly as wild-type OTRs and 2) their DRM location is responsible for the specific OTR signaling leading to cell proliferation. Finally, we evaluated whether cholesterol loading could force the OTRs into lipid rafts and change their signaling, but, after cell treatment with an MbetaCD/cholesterol complex, receptor stimulation continued to lead to cell growth inhibition, thus indicating that increasing cell cholesterol levels is not sufficient per se to affect OTR signaling.
To better understand the involvement of hindbrain catecholamine neurons in hypovolemia-induced secretion of AVP, we injected antidopamine beta-hydroxylase saporin (DSAP) or unconjugated saporin (SAP) control solution into the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVH) of anesthetized rats to retrogradely lesion catecholamine neurons innervating magnocellular areas of the hypothalamus. Subsequently, hypotensive hypovolemia was induced by remote blood withdrawal (4.5 ml, 1 ml/min) using an intra-atrial catheter. Blood was sampled at 2, 5, 20, and 50 min after onset of blood withdrawal. The AVP response was severely impaired by DSAP. Peak responses at 50 min were 51 pg/ml in SAP control and 17 pg/ml in DSAP-lesioned rats, indicating the importance of catecholamine neurons for this response. We also measured AVP responses to osmotic challenge induced by administration of hypertonic saline (1 M, 15 ml/kg, sc) and to insulin-induced hypoglycemia. Osmotic challenge increased AVP levels, but the response was not impaired by DSAP, indicating that AVP neurons were not damaged by the DSAP injection. Insulin-induced hypoglycemia did not increase AVP levels in either DSAP- or SAP-treated rats. However, the same dose of insulin increased food intake and corticosterone secretion in SAP controls, and these responses were profoundly impaired by DSAP. Thus catecholamine neurons are required for both the AVP response to hypotensive hypovolemia and for feeding and corticosterone responses to hypoglycemia. Lack of an AVP response to insulin-induced hypoglycemia in intact rats therefore indicates that responses to hypovolemia and hypoglycemia are mediated by different catecholamine neurons under distinct sensory controls.
Acute sodium deficiency sensitizes adult rats to psychomotor effects of amphetamine. This study determined whether prenatal and early life manipulation of dietary sodium sensitized adult offspring to psychomotor effects of amphetamine (1 or 3 mg/kg ip) in two strains of rats. Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) and spontaneously hypertensive (SHR) dams were fed chow containing low NaCl (0.12%; LN), normal NaCl (1%; NN), or high NaCl (4%; HN) throughout breeding, gestation, and lactation. Male offspring were maintained on the test diet for an additional 3 wk postweaning and then fed standard chow thereafter until testing began. Overall, blood pressure (BP), total fluid intake, salt preference, and adrenal gland weight were greater in SHR than in WKY. WKY LN offspring had greater water intake and adrenal gland weight than did WKY NN and HN offspring, whereas WKY HN offspring had increased BP, salt intake, and salt preference compared with other WKY offspring. SHR HN offspring also had increased BP compared with other SHR offspring; all other measures were similar for SHR offspring. The low-dose amphetamine increased locomotor and stereotypical behavior compared with baseline and saline injection in both WKY and SHR offspring. Dietary sodium history affected the rats' psychomotor response to the higher dose of amphetamine. Injections of 3 mg/kg amphetamine in both strains produced significantly more behavioral activity in the LN offspring than in NN and HN offspring. These results show that early life experience with low-sodium diets produce long-term changes in adult rats' behavioral responses to amphetamine.



Computed tomography guided percutaneous ethanol injection is frequently employed for treatment of symptomatic vertebral haemangiomas. The procedure is performed under monitored anaesthesia care in the prone position. It has several advantages over open surgery and other therapeutic modalities and is generally considered safe. There is no previous report of any significant haemodynamic disturbance attributable to alcohol ablation of vertebral haemangiomas. We report a case in which a patient of ASA physical status I developed asystole following injection of 100% alcohol into a vertebral haemangioma, and became apnoeic and unresponsive. He recovered following intravenous administration of atropine. All staff involved in this procedure should be aware of and prepared for, this rare but potentially life-threatening complication.
Continuous amperometry with a diamond microelectrode and video microscopy were used to record (in vitro) endogenous norepinephrine release simultaneously with the evoked contractile response of a mesenteric artery from a healthy Sprague Dawley rat. Norepinephrine (NE) is a vasoconstricting neurotransmitter released from sympathetic nerves that innervate the smooth muscle cell layers surrounding arteries and veins. Using these two techniques along with several drugs, the NE released at sympathetic neuroeffector junctions nearby the microelectrode was measured as an oxidation current. Key to the amperometric measurement was the use of a diamond microelectrode because of the response sensitivity, reproducibility, and stability it provided. NE release was elicited by electrical stimulation at frequencies between 1 and 60 Hz, with a maximum response seen at 20 Hz. Confirmation that the oxidation current was, in fact, associated with endogenous NE came from the results of several drugs. Tetrodotoxin (TTX, 0.3 microM), a voltage-dependent sodium channel antagonist that blocks nerve conduction, abolished both the oxidation current and the arterial constriction. The alpha(2)-adrenergic autoreceptor antagonist, yohimbine (1.0 microM), caused an increase in the oxidation current and the corresponding constriction. The addition of cocaine (10 microM), an antagonist that inhibits neuronal NE reuptake, caused both the oxidation current and the contractile response to increase. These results, combined with the fact that the hydrodynamic voltammetric E(1/2) for endogenous NE was identical to that for a standard solution, confirmed that the oxidation current was due to NE and that this compound caused, at least in part, the contractile response. The results demonstrate that continuous amperometric monitoring of NE with a diamond microelectrode and video imaging of vascular tone allow real time local measurement of the temporal relationship between nerve-stimulated NE release and arterial constriction.
Microdialysis sampling was coupled on-line to micellar electrokinetic chromatography (MEKC) to monitor extracellular dopamine concentration in the brains of rats. Microdialysis probes were perfused at 0.3 microL/min and the dialysate mixed on-line with 6 mM naphthalene-2,3-dicarboxaldehye and 10 mM potassium cyanide pumped at 0.12 microL/min each into a reaction capillary. The reaction mixture was delivered into a flow-gated interface and separated at 90-s intervals. The MEKC separation buffer consisted of 30 mM phosphate, 6.5 mM SDS, and 2 mM HP-beta-CD at pH 7.4, and the electric field was 850 V/cm applied across a 14-cm separation distance. Analytes were detected by laser-induced fluorescence excited using the 413-nm line of a 14-mW diode-pumped laser. The detection limit for dopamine was 2 nM when sampling by dialysis. The basal dopamine concentration in dialysates collected from the striatum of anesthetized rats was 18 +/- 3 nM (n = 12). The identity of the putative dopamine peak was confirmed by showing that dopamine uptake inhibitors increased the peak and dopamine synthesis inhibitors eliminated the peak. The utility of this method for behavioral studies was demonstrated by correlating dopamine concentrations in vivo and with psychomotor behavior in freely moving rats following the intravenous administration of cocaine. Over 60 additional peaks were detected in the electropherograms, suggesting the potential for monitoring many other substances in vivo by this method.
The nature and mechanism of human consciousness is emerging as one of the most important scientific and philosophical questions of the 21st century. Disregarded as a subject of serious inquiry throughout most of the 20th century, it has now regained legitimacy as a scientific endeavor. The investigation of consciousness and the mechanisms of general anesthesia have begun to converge. In the present article I provide an introduction to the study of consciousness, describe the neural correlates of consciousness that may be targets of general anesthetics, and suggest an integrated approach to the science of consciousness and anesthesia.
A series of place learning experiments was carried out in young chicks (Gallus gallus) in order to investigate how the geometry of a landmark array and that of a walled enclosure compete when disoriented animals could rely on both of them to re-orient towards the centre of the enclosure. A square-shaped array (four wooden sticks) was placed in the middle of a square-shaped enclosure, the two structures being concentric. Chicks were trained to ground-scratch to search for food hidden in the centre of the enclosure (and the array). To check for effects of array degradation, one, two, three or all landmarks were removed during test trials. Chicks concentrated their searching activity in the central area of the enclosure, but their accuracy was inversely contingent on the number of landmarks removed; moreover, the landmarks still present within the enclosure appeared to influence the shape of the searching patterns. The reduction in the number of landmarks affected the searching strategy of chicks, suggesting that they had focussed mainly on local cues when landmarks were present within the enclosure. When all the landmarks were removed, chicks searched over a larger area, suggesting an absolute encoding of distances from the local cues and less reliance on the relationships provided by the geometry of the enclosure. Under conditions of monocular vision, chicks tended to rely on different strategies to localize the centre on the basis of the eye (and thus the hemisphere) in use, the left hemisphere attending to details of the environment and the right hemisphere attending to the global shape.
Until 10 years ago, conventional wisdom held that Parkinson's disease was not a genetic disorder. Since that time, there have been a plethora of genetic findings, culminating in the cloning of several genes that derive from the loci given the nomenclature PARK1-PARK12 (OMIM 168600). Recently, these research findings have begun to impact clinical practice, and this impact is likely to increase. The primary purpose of this article is to outline these genetic advances, discuss their importance for current practice in clinical and related settings, and outline briefly how they are influencing research into the causes of and possible future treatments for this prevalent disorder.




Impairments in certain cognitive functions mediated by the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, such as working memory, are core features of schizophrenia. Convergent findings suggest that these disturbances are associated with alterations in markers of inhibitory gamma-aminobutyric acid and excitatory glutamate neurotransmission in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. Specifically, reduced gamma-aminobutyric acid synthesis is present in the subpopulation of gamma-aminobutyric acid neurons that express the calcium-binding protein parvalbumin. Despite presynaptic and postsynaptic compensatory responses, the resulting impaired inhibitory regulation of pyramidal neurons contributes to a reduction in the synchronized neuronal activity that is required for working memory function. Several lines of evidence suggest that these changes may be either secondary to or exacerbated by impaired signaling via the N-methyl-d-aspartate class of glutamate receptors. These findings suggest specific targets for therapeutic interventions to improve cognitive function in individuals with schizophrenia.

The awake craniotomy procedure has become the gold standard for tumour resection in eligible patients. In this paper, the awake craniotomy procedure is reviewed, including the advantages of the procedure over the standard craniotomy procedure. The role of the neuroscience nurse in awake craniotomies is highlighted.
The scholarly literature related to quality of life (QoL) is reviewed. Specific contributions by neurosciences nursing related to quality of life for patients and family caregivers is presented in the areas of stroke, neuro-oncology, traumatic brain injury, multiple sclerosis, and epilepsy. QoL information is important, as it is used in decisions concerning treatment and interventions for patients and their family members who are living with neurological conditions and their consequences.
The C-terminal tripeptide of the alpha-melanocyte stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH11-13) possesses strong antiinflammatory activity without known cellular target. In order to better understand the structural requirements for function of such motif, we designed, synthesized and tested out Trp- and Tyr-containing analogues of the alpha-MSH11-13. Seven alpha-MSH11-13 analogues were synthesized and characterized for their binding to the melanocortin receptors recombinantly expressed in insect (Sf9) cells, infected with baculovirus carrying corresponding MC receptor DNA. We also tested these analogues on B16-F1 mouse melanoma cells endogenously expressing the MC1 receptor for binding and for ability to increase cAMP levels as well as on COS-7 cells transfected with the human MC receptors. The data indicate that HS401 (Ac-Tyr-Lys-Pro-Val-NH2) and HS402 (Ac-Lys-Pro-Val-Tyr-NH2) selectively bound to the MC1 receptor and stimulated cAMP generation in a concentration dependent way while the other Tyr- and Trp-containing alpha-MSH11-13 analogues neither bound to MC receptors nor stimulated cAMP. We have thus identified new MC receptor binding motif derived from the C-terminal sequence of alpha-MSH. The tetrapeptides have novel properties as the both act via MC-ergic pathways and also carry the anti-inflammatory alpha-MSH11-13 message sequence.
Evidence from the effect of aspiration lesions of the entorhinal cortex (EC) has shown that this region is involved in conditioned odor-aversion (COA) learning--that is, the avoidance of an odorized tasteless solution the ingestion of which precedes toxicosis--by rendering COA tolerant to long odor-toxicosis delay. The present study examined whether neurotoxic lesions restricted to the lateral or medial parts of the EC, in comparison with large aspiration lesions, were sufficient to produce this effect. Male Long-Evans rats received odor-intoxication pairing with either a short (5-min) or long (120-min) delay between the presentation of the odor and toxicosis. All groups, including sham-lesioned controls, showed COA at the 5-min odor-toxicosis delay interval, but only rats with lateral EC damage displayed COA at the longer delay. These data show that the lateral EC is part of the substrate involved in the control of the olfactory memory trace during COA.
The NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801 produces different effects on timing tasks. In particular, MK-801 produces an underestimation of duration when animals are tested with the differential reinforcement of low rate of responding (DRL) schedule and an overestimation of duration when animals are tested with the peak-interval (PI) procedure. The goal of this study was to develop a model-based explanation for this discrepancy. Two computer simulations were conducted via an implementation of scalar expectancy theory (SET). In Simulation 1, SET was used to provide a quantitative account of PI timing data. Simulation 2 used parameter estimates from Simulation 1 to predict effects of MK-801 on the DRL task. DRL predictions provided a close match to previous empirical data. Results of the simulations suggest that differences in the literature are likely due to inherent differences between PI and DRL tasks, rather than fundamental differences in timing. Overall, the role of NMDA receptors in timing appears to be multifaceted, impacting perception, memory, and decision processes.
The roles of visual, tactile, and spatial location cues were studied in 6 conditioned place preference (CPP) experiments with ethanol (2 g/kg) in mice (of the DBA/2J strain). Visual cues were effective conditioned stimuli (CSs) when consistently presented in the same spatial location, but not when the same cue was presented in two different locations during training. In contrast, tactile CSs were effective regardless of spatial location during training. Moreover, spatial location controlled CPP expression when visual cues were used but not when tactile cues were used. However, spatial location per se was not an effective CS. These studies suggest that CPP conditioned to tactile cues is mediated by brain systems different from those mediating CPP conditioned to visual-spatial cues.
In male golden hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus), attack frequency decreases during puberty. As serotonin inhibits offensive responses in adult hamsters, it is hypothesized that the serotonin system becomes upregulated in the hypothalamus during puberty. This hypothesis was tested through acute treatment with fluoxetine, a serotonin reuptake inhibitor, as well as through analysis of serotonin innervation in specific brain areas. In adults, fluoxetine treatment inhibited aggressive behavior. In juveniles, high doses of fluoxetine only reduced offensive responses (i.e., frequency and repetition of attacks), whereas low doses enhanced them. Juveniles also showed a dose-specific maturation of attack targets. In addition, the density of serotonin innervation of the hypothalamus was 20% higher in adult hamsters compared with juveniles. On the basis of these data, it is proposed that the developing serotonergic system shapes the development of offensive behaviors in male golden hamsters.
The serine/threonine protein kinase Sgk1 (serum- and glucocorticoid-inducible kinase 1) is characterized by a short half-life and has been implicated in the control of a large variety of functions in different subcellular compartments and tissues. Here, we analysed the influence of the N-terminus of Sgk1 on protein turnover and subcellular localization. Using green fluorescent protein-tagged Sgk1 deletion variants, we identified amino acids 17-32 to function as an anchor for the OMM (outer mitochondrial membrane). Subcellular fractionation of mouse tissue revealed a predominant localization of Sgk1 to the mitochondrial fraction. A cytosolic orientation of the kinase at the OMM was determined by in vitro import of Sgk1 and protease protection assays. Pulse-chase experiments showed that half-life and subcellular localization of Sgk1 are inseparable and determined by identical amino acids. Our results provide evidence that Sgk1 is primarily localized to the OMM and shed new light on the role of Sgk1 in the control of cellular function.
Model systems provide an invaluable tool for investigating the molecular mechanisms underlying the NCLs, devastating neurodegenerative disorders that affect the relatively inaccessible tissues of the central nervous system. These models have enabled the assessment of behavioural, pathological, cellular, and molecular abnormalities, and also allow for development and evaluation of novel therapies. This review highlights the relative advantages of the two available small vertebrate species, the mouse and zebrafish, in modelling NCL disease, summarising how these have been useful in NCL research and their potential for the development and testing of prospective disease treatments. A panel of mouse mutants is available representing all the cloned NCL gene disorders (Cathepsin D, CLN1, CLN2, CLN3, CLN5, CLN6, CLN8). These NCL mice all have progressive neurodegenerative phenotypes that closely resemble the pathology of human NCL. The analysis of these models has highlighted several novel aspects underlying NCL pathogenesis including the selective nature of neurodegeneration, evidence for glial responses that precede neuronal loss and identification of the thalamus as an important pathological target early in disease progression. Studies in mice have also highlighted an unexpected heterogeneity underlying NCL phenotypes, and novel potential NCL-like mouse models have been described including mice with mutations in cathepsins, CLC chloride channels, and other lysosome-related genes. These new models are likely to provide significant new information on the spectrum of NCL disease. Information on NCL mice is available in the NCL Mouse Model Database (). There are homologs of most of the NCL genes in zebrafish, and NCL zebrafish models are currently in development. This model system provides additional advantages to those provided by NCL mouse models including high-throughput mutational, pharmacogenetic and therapeutic technique analyses. Mouse and zebrafish models are an important shared resource for NCL research, offering a unique possibility to dissect disease mechanisms and to develop therapeutic approaches.
Heterotrimeric Gi proteins play a role in lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and Staphylococcus aureus (SA) activated signaling leading to inflammatory mediator production. We hypothesized that genetic deletion of Gi proteins would alter cytokine and chemokine production induced by LPS and SA. LPS- and heat killed SA-induced cytokine and chemokine production in splenocytes from wild type (WT), Galpha(i2) (-/-) or Galpha(i1/3) (-/-) mice were investigated. LPS- or SA-induced production of TNFalpha, IL-6, IFNgamma, IL-12, IL-17, GM-CSF, MIP-1alpha, MCP-1, MIG and IP-10 were significantly increased (1.2 to 33 fold, p&lt;0.05) in splenocytes harvested from Galpha(i2)(-/-) mice compared with WT mice. The effect of Galpha(i) protein depletion was remarkably isoform specific. In splenocytes from Galpha(i1/3) (-/-) mice relative to WT mice, SA-induced IL-6, IFNgamma, GM-CSF, and IP-10 levels were decreased (59% to 86%, p&lt;0.05), whereas other LPS- or SA-stimulated cytokines and chemokines were not different relative to WT mice. LPS- and SA-induced production of KC were unchanged in both groups of the genetic deficient mice. Splenocytes from both Galpha(i2) (-/-) and Galpha(i1/3) (-/-) mice did not exhibit changes in TLR2 and TLR4 expression. Also analysis of splenic cellular composition by flow cytometry demonstrated an increase in splenic macrophages and reduced CD4 T cells in both Galpha(i2) (-/-) and Galpha(i1/3) (-/-) mice relative to WT mice. The disparate response of splenocytes from the Galpha(i2) (-/-) relative to Galpha(i1/3) (-/-) mice therefore cannot be attributed to major differences in spleen cellular composition. These data demonstrate that G(i2) and G(i1/3) proteins are both involved and differentially regulate splenocyte inflammatory cytokine and chemokine production in a highly Gi isoform specific manner in response to LPS and Gram-positive microbial stimuli.
The neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses (NCLs) are a group of inherited neurodegenerative disorders characterized by the accumulation of autofluorescent storage material in many cell types, including neurons. Most NCL subtypes are inherited in an autosomal recessive manner and characterized clinically by epileptic seizures, progressive psychomotor decline, visual failure, variable age of onset, and premature death. To date, seven genes underlying human NCLs have been identified. Most of the mutations in these genes are associated with specific disease subtypes, while some result in variable disease onset, severity and progression. In addition to these, there are still disease subgroups with unknown molecular genetic backgrounds. Although apparent clinical homogeneity exists within some of these subgroups, actual genetic heterogeneity may complicate gene identification. Additional clues to the identification of these unknown genes may come from animal models of NCL and from functional studies of already known genes which may suggest further candidates.
Caribbean spiny lobsters display a diversity of social behaviors, one of the most prevalent of which is gregarious diurnal sheltering. Previous research has demonstrated that shelter selection is chemically mediated, but the source of release and the identity of the aggregation signal are unknown. In this study, we investigated the source and specificity of the aggregation signal in Caribbean spiny lobsters, Panulirus argus. We developed a relatively rapid test of shelter choice in a 5000-l laboratory flume that simulated flow conditions in the spiny lobster's natural environment, and used it to examine the shelter preference of the animals in response to a variety of odorants. We found that both males and females associated preferentially with shelters emanating conspecific urine of either sex, but not with shelters emanating seawater, food odors, or the scent of a predatory octopus. These results demonstrate specificity in the cues mediating sheltering behavior and show that urine is at least one source of the aggregation signal.
In this paper, we will present and review the most usual methods to detect linear and nonlinear causality between signals: linear Granger causality test (Geweke in J Am Stat Assoc 77:304-313, 1982) extended to direct causality in multivariate case (LGC), directed coherence (DCOH, Saito and Harashima in Recent advances in EEG and EMG data processing, Elsevier, Amsterdam, 1981), partial directed coherence (PDC, Sameshima and Baccala 1999) and nonlinear Granger causality test of Baek and Brock (in Working Paper University of Iowa, 1992) extended to direct causality in multivariate case (partial nonlinear Granger causality, PNGC). All these methods are tested and compared on several ARX, Poisson and nonlinear models, and on neurophysiological data (depth EEG). The results show that LGC, DCOH and PDC are not very robust in relation to nonlinear linkages but they seem to correctly find linear linkages if only the autoregressive parts are nonlinear. PNGC is extremely dependent on the choice of parameters. Moreover, LGC and PNGC may give misleading results in the case of causality on a spectral band, which is illustrated by our neurophysiological database.

Femalerhesus macaques show monthly menstrual cycles and eventually enter menopause at approximately 25 yr of age. To help identify early biomarkers of menopause in this nonhuman primate, we monitored reproductive hormones longitudinally from aged female macaques during the transitions from premenopause to perimenopause and postmenopause and found that, indeed, elevated plasma FSH was a better predictive factor of menopause onset than age. In a second experiment, we compared reproductive hormone profiles of young adult macaques (8-10 yr old) with those of regularly cycling old macaques (approximately 24 yr old). Indwelling vascular catheters were used for remote blood collection for at least 100 consecutive days, thereby covering three complete menstrual cycles in each macaque. Plasma levels of estradiol, progesterone, LH, FSH, follicular phase inhibin B, and anti-mllerian hormone (AMH) were determined during each menstrual cycle and were averaged for each animal; group mean differences were analyzed using one-way ANOVA. Old premenopausal macaques showed regular menstrual cycles that were qualitatively indistinguishable from those of young macaques; peak plasma levels of estradiol, progesterone, and LH were not significantly different. In marked contrast, peak plasma FSH concentrations were significantly higher, while inhibin B and AMH levels were generally lower, in the old premenopausal macaques compared with those in the young macaques. These data provide further evidence that rhesus macaques serve as an excellent model to study underlying mechanisms of human menopause. Furthermore, the data suggest that an age-related change in FSH, inhibin B, and AMH secretion may be the first endocrine manifestation of the transition into perimenopause, potentially having value in predicting the onset of the perimenopausal transition.
Many proteins contain regions of unstructured polypeptide chain that appear to be flexible and to undergo random thermal motion. In some cases the unfolded sequence acts as a flexible tether that restricts the diffusion of a globular protein domain for the purpose of catalysis or self-assembly. In this article, we present a stochastic model for tethered protein domains under various conditions and solve it numerically to deduce the general and dynamic properties of these systems. A critical domain size dependent on the length of the tether is presented, above which a spherical domain tethered to an impenetrable wall by a flexible chain displays a restricted localization between two concentric half-shells. Results suggest that the diffusion of such a spherical domain is effectively reduced in its dimensionality and able to explore the available space with high efficiency. It also becomes clear that the orientation of the ball is not independent of the distance from the tethering point but becomes more constrained as the linking tether is extended. The possible biological significance of these and other results is discussed.
Neurodegenerative diseases are a heterogeneous group of pathologies which includes complex multifactorial diseases, monogenic disorders and disorders for which inherited, sporadic and transmissible forms are known. Factors associated with predisposition and vulnerability to neurodegenerative disorders may be described usefully within the context of gene-environment interplay. There are many identified genetic determinants for neurodegeneration, and it is possible to duplicate many elements of recognized human neurodegenerative disorders in animal models of the disease. However, there are similarly several identifiable environmental influences on outcomes of the genetic defects; and the course of a progressive neurodegenerative disorder can be greatly modified by environmental elements. In this review we highlight some of the major neurodegenerative disorders (Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Huntington's disease, and prion diseases.) and discuss possible links of gene-environment interplay including, where implicated, mitochondrial genes.
A novel way of computational modeling by integrating compartmental neural techniques and detailed kinetic description of pharmacological modulation of transmitter-receptor interaction is offered as a method to test the electro-physiological and behavioral effects of potential drugs. Even more, an inverse method is suggested as a method for controlling a neural system to realize a prescribed temporal pattern. Generation and pharamcological modulation of theta rhythm in area CA1 of the hippocampus related to anxiety is analyzed. Integrative modeling might help to find positive allosteric modulators of alpha1 subunits as potential candidates for being selective anxyolitics.
The dynamics of activity in interactive neural populations is simulated by the networks of Wilson-Cowan oscillators. Two extreme cases of connection architectures in the networks are considered: (1) 1D and 2D regular and homogeneous grids with local connections and (2) sparse random coupling. Propagating waves in the network have been found under the stationary external input and the regime of partial synchronization has been obtained for the periodic input. It has been shown that in the case of random coupling about 60% of neural populations demonstrate oscillatory activity and some of these oscillations are synchronous. The role of different types of dynamics in information processing is discussed. In particular, we discuss the regime of partial synchronization in the context of cortical microcircuits.







Alzheimer's disease (AD) is associated with a loss of cholinergic neurons resulting in profound memory disturbances and irreversible impairment of cognitive function. The central cholinergic system is involved in the action of general anaesthetic agents. Anaesthetic modulation of cholinergic transmission has profound effects on brain function via a cascade of synaptic and postsynaptic events by binding both nicotinic and muscarinic receptors. During general anaesthesia, decrease in acetylcholine release and depression of cholinergic transmission facilitates the desirable effects of general anaesthetics, such as loss of consciousness, pain, voluntary movements and memory. From this point of view, patients with AD, characterized by a compromised neuronal transmission, represent particular cases in which the choice of anaesthesia drugs may have a negative effect on the postoperative outcome. A future challenge may be the identification of brain targets of general anaesthetics which do not expose patients to postoperative cognitive dysfunction, nor interfere with prognosis of brain degenerative disease.
The publication of the ISAT trial in 2002 has resulted in increasing numbers of patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage undergoing endovascular coiling, as first line treatment for aneurysm occlusion. During the first 2-year period post-ISAT, in which all suitable intracranial aneurysms were coiled first, we had to perform surgery in seven patients out of 54 who underwent initial coiling. The reasons for subsequent surgery were failed coiling, residual or recurrent aneurysm necks and delayed aneurysmal rebleeding despite coiling. We reviewed our surgical experience with the repair of these previously coiled aneurysms to identify unique technical difficulties. In particular, we found that an aneurysm height to neck ratio of less than 2:1 after coiling, and the use of stent-assisted coiling presented formidable challenges to direct clipping.
The objective of this investigation was to present the operative and hardware complications encountered during follow-up of patients with in situ deep brain stimulators. The study took the form of a retrospective chart review on a series of consecutive patients who were treated successfully with insertion of deep brain stimulators at a single centre by a single surgeon between 1999 and 2005. During the study period, a total of 60 patients underwent 96 procedures for implantation of unilateral or bilateral DBS electrodes. The mean follow-up period was 43.7 months (range 6-78 months) from the time of the first procedure. No patients were lost to follow-up or died. Eighteen patients (30%) developed 28 adverse events, requiring 28 electrodes to be replaced. Seven patients developed two adverse events and two patients developed three adverse events. The rate of adverse events per electrode-year was 8%. We observed a higher proportion of early complications (&lt;6 months postoperatively) in patients with Parkinson's disease, while dystonic patients had more late complications (&gt;6 months postoperatively) and no early complications. Thirty per cent of our patients developed an adverse event that could potentially lead to revision of the implanted hardware. In patients with Parkinson's disease most of the complications tend to occur during the first 6 months postoperatively, while in dystonic patients most occur between 12 and 24 months postoperatively.
Currently, brain tumours are diagnosed by surgical biopsy and light microscopic examination of tissue, with immunohistochemistry in difficult cases. We review research in the field of brain tumour diagnosis and discuss several new approaches. In future, tumour type, optimal treatment, and prognosis could be obtained by studying the gene (genomics), protein (proteomics) or metabolite (metabolomics) content of tumour cells. These techniques generate complex data, analysed using techniques such as pattern recognition software to identify biomarker signatures of different tumours. Compared with individual biomarkers, biomarker signatures appear to increase diagnostic accuracy and may produce an improved brain tumour classification system.
The results of two acute placebo-controlled, double-blind cross-over studies assessing the effect of Panax ginseng (G115) on blood glucose levels are reported. In study 1, thirty participants received three treatments: placebo; 200 mg G115; 400 mg G115. In study 2, twenty-seven participants received four treatments: placebo (0 mg ginseng and 30 mg saccharin); ginseng (200 mg ginseng and 30 mg saccharin); placebo-glucose (0 mg ginseng and 25 g oral glucose); ginseng-glucose (200 mg ginseng and 25 g oral glucose). Blood glucose levels were measured at baseline (at 09.00 hours after an overnight fast) and then 60, 90 (study 1 only) and 120 min post-dose. Both studies demonstrated that G115 alone significantly lowers fasting blood glucose levels. Conversely, in study 2 there was a significant drink x ginseng interaction suggesting opposing glycaemic effects of ginseng under fasting and raised blood glucose conditions. These data have implications for the use of ginseng in individuals with poor gluco-regulation.
Congenital myasthenic syndromes are inherited disorders of neuromuscular transmission characterized by fatigable muscle weakness. Autosomal recessive acetylcholine receptor (AChR) deficiency syndromes, in which levels of this receptor at the neuromuscular junction are severely reduced, may be caused by mutations within genes encoding the AChR or the AChR-clustering protein, rapsyn. Most patients have mutations within the rapsyn coding region and are either homozygous for N88K or heteroallelic for N88K and a second mutation. In some cases the second allele carries a null mutation but in many the mutations are missense, and are located in different functional domains. Little is known about the functional effects of these mutations, but we hypothesize that they would have an effect on AChR clustering by a variety of mechanisms that might correlate with disease severity. Here we expressed RAPSN mutations A25V, N88K, R91L, L361R and K373del in TE671 cells and in rapsyn-/- myotubes to determine their pathogenic mechanisms. The A25Vmutation impaired colocalization of rapsyn with AChR and prevented agrin-induced AChR clusters in rapsyn-/- myotubes. In TE671 cells, R91L reduced the ability of rapsyn to self-associate, and K373del-rapsyn was significantly less stable than wild-type. The effects of mutations L361R and N88K were more subtle: in TE671 cells, in comparison with wild-type rapsyn, L361R-rapsyn showed reduced expression/stability, and both N88K-rapsyn and L361R-rapsyn showed significantly reduced co-localization with AChR. N88K-rapsyn and L361R-rapsyn could effectively mediate agrin-induced AChR clusters, but these were reduced in number and were less stable than with wild-type rapsyn. The disease severity of patients harbouring the compound allelic mutations was greater than that of patients with homozygous rapsyn mutation N88K, suggesting that the second mutant allele may largely determine severity.
The study of the brain bases for normal musical listening has advanced greatly in the last 30 years. The evidence from basic and clinical neuroscience suggests that listening to music involves many cognitive components with distinct brain substrates. Using patient cases reported in the literature, we develop an approach for understanding disordered musical listening that is based on the systematic assessment of the perceptual and cognitive analysis of music and its emotional effect. This approach can be applied both to acquired and congenital deficits of musical listening, and to aberrant listening in patients with musical hallucinations. Both the bases for normal musical listening and the clinical assessment of disorders now have a solid grounding in systems neuroscience.
It has been proposed that deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN DBS) and dopaminergic therapy ameliorate the symptoms of Parkinson's disease through similar functional mechanisms. We examined this notion using PET to compare the metabolic effects of these treatment approaches. Nine Parkinson's disease patients (age 61.7 +/- 11.1 years) were scanned ON and OFF STN stimulation and nine others (age 60.0 +/- 9.3 years) were scanned ON and OFF an individual titrated intravenous levodopa infusion. The two treatment groups were matched for baseline disease severity as well as clinical response to therapy. Similarities and differences in the effects of treatment on regional metabolism were assessed using statistical parametric mapping (SPM). In addition, we used network analysis to assess the effect of therapy on the expression of an abnormal Parkinson's disease-related spatial covariance pattern (PDRP). We found that both STN DBS and levodopa therapy were associated with significant (P &lt; 0.001) metabolic reductions in the putamen/globus pallidus, sensorimotor cortex and cerebellar vermis, as well as increases in the precuneus (BA 7). The metabolic effects of the two interventions differed in the STN and medial prefrontal cortex, with relative increases with stimulation in the former structure and decreases in the latter. Network quantification disclosed reductions in PDRP activity with both interventions, which correlated with clinical improvement (P &lt; 0.05). The degree of network modulation by therapy did not differ significantly for the two treatment approaches (P &gt; 0.6). These findings support the results of previous imaging studies indicating that effective symptomatic therapies for Parkinson's disease involve a common mechanism. The modulation of pathological brain networks is a critical feature of the treatment response in parkinsonism.
Event-related potential (ERP) studies have shown that emotional stimuli elicit greater amplitude late positive-polarity potentials (LPPs) than neutral stimuli. This effect has been attributed to arousal, but emotional stimuli are also more semantically coherent than uncategorized neutral stimuli. ERPs were recorded during encoding of positive, negative, uncategorized neutral, and categorized neutral words. Differences in LPP amplitude elicited by emotional versus uncategorized neutral stimuli were evident from 450 to 1000 ms. From 450 to 700 ms, LPP effects at midline and right hemisphere frontal electrodes indexed arousal, whereas LPP effects at left hemisphere centro-parietal electrodes indexed semantic cohesion. This dissociation helps specify the processes underlying emotional stimulus encoding, and suggests the need to control for semantic cohesion in emotional information processing studies.
Movement-related cortical potential (MRCP) is recorded to investigate the cerebral motor preparation in two patients with subcortical heterotopia. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies were conducted in the two patients. Scalp MRCP elicited by self-paced voluntary extension of the wrist was recorded. The MRCP waveforms and the potential maps were compared to those of an age-matched normal subject. MRI reveals subcortical heterotopia in the right frontal area and bilateral centrum semiovale in one patient and in the left parietal lobe in the other. Both of the patients had history of early onset epilepsy and were hypersensitive to unexpected loud noises. Distinctly different from the normal MRCP, the waveforms of the patients are flattened in all scalp electrodes by moving either the right or the left hand. And the topographic potential map detects no evidence of preponderance of negativity on the hemisphere contralateral to the moving side in the patients. The ectopic neurons of the subcortical heterotopia may produce chaotic discharges, which can interrupt or cancel the well oriented dipole of the MRCP activities.
Neurotrophic factors (NTFs) have the unique potential to support neuronal survival and to augment neuronal function in the injured and diseased nervous system. Numerous studies conducted over the last 20 years have provided evidence for the potent therapeutic potential of NTFs in animal models of neurodegenerative diseases. However, major obstacles for the therapeutic use of NTFs are the inability to deliver proteins across the blood-brain-barrier, and dose-limiting adverse effects resulting from the broad exposure of nontargeted structures to NTFs. Two recent developments have allowed NTFs' promise to be truly tested for the first time: first, recent improvements in viral vectors that allow the targeted delivery of NTFs while providing a long-lasting supply and sufficient therapeutic doses of NTFs; and second, improved animal models developed in recent years. In this review, we will discuss some of the potential therapeutic applications of NTFs in neurodegenerative diseases and the potential contribution of disturbed neurotrophic factor signaling to neurodegenerative diseases.
The formation of myelin is dependent on a reciprocal and intimate relationship between neurons and the myelin-forming glia. Recently, the neurotrophin family of growth factors has been shown to regulate the complex cell-cell interactions that control myelination. Neurotrophins and their receptors influence myelin formation via two distinct mechanisms, either by acting on the neurons, changing the axonal signals that control myelination, or by acting directly on the myelin-forming glia. In this review, we will discuss research highlighting the ability of neurotrophins to both promote and inhibit the myelination process. As reflected in the work presented here, these effects are dependent on a delicate balance of which neurotrophins are expressed, and what receptors are activated. Additionally, we examine an emerging model in which the growth factors that promote the early survival and differentiation of particular sets of neurons later play important roles as key regulators in glial development. Characterizing the temporal expression and the cellular targets of neurotrophins, both during development and after injury, represents a pivotal step in developing a greater understanding of the myelination process, contributing to the development of effective treatments for demyelinating conditions. We conclude this review by discussing the potential for neurotrophins as therapeutics in the quest for remyelination.
Our objective was to examine the reliability of histological diagnosis achieved vis a vis the number of biopsy bits obtained along a single trajectory of the stereotactic needle. A retrospective analysis of stereotactic biopsies performed in a single tertiary care neurosciences center, during a period of 11 years, between 1995 to 2005 was done. The overall diagnostic accuracy achieved on histopathology was correlated with the number of bits obtained by stereotactic biopsy. A total of 86 cases were analyzed, which consisted of 58 males and 28 females. Age ranged from 6 to 75 years, with a mean age of 36.1 years. Twenty percent of the patients were in the pediatric age group and 15% were &gt; or =60 years of age. Most common sites biopsied were thalamus/basal ganglia (55.8%), followed by eloquent areas and other sites. A definitive histological diagnosis was established in 70 cases (diagnostic yield, 81.3%), which encompassed 65 neoplastic and 5 nonneoplastic lesions. Astrocytic lesions, the most common, include 10 pilocytic astrocytomas (PA), 29 diffuse astrocytomas (DA), 11 anaplastic astrocytomas (AA), and 7 glioblastoma multiforme (GBM). In 16 cases no definite histological diagnosis could be offered. The number of biopsies ranged between 1 and 6 bits (mean, 2; median, 1). The majority (68.7%) of the biopsies were 1 or 2-bits. The diagnostic accuracy increased from 76.5% for single biopsies to 84% and 88.2% for 2 and 3 bits, respectively, and 100% for biopsies with 5 to 6 bits. Overall, a trend of higher diagnostic yield was seen in cases with more biopsies when compared with single bit biopsies. Thus, this small series confirms that stereotactic procedures involving multiple bits are associated with a high diagnostic yield.

The non-genomic role of neuroactive steroids on [Ca2+]i transients induced by GABA receptor activation was investigated in cultured dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurones at embryonic stage E13. [Ca2+]i measurements were performed with Fura-2 fast fluorescence microfluorimetry. Application of the GABAA receptor agonist muscimol (Musci) evoked an increase in [Ca2+]i, confirming the excitatory effect of GABA at this embryonic stage. The muscimol-induced [Ca2+]i response was inhibited by progesterone (Proges) and its primary metabolite allopregnanolone (Allo) in a rapid, reversible and dose-dependent manner. These calcium transients were suppressed in the absence of external Ca2+ or in the presence of Ni2+ + Cd2+ suggesting an involvement of voltage-activated Ca2+ channels. In contrast, none of these steroids affected the resting [Ca2+]i nor exhibited any inhibitory effect on 50 mM KCl-induced [Ca2+]i increases. In view of the well-established potentiation of GABAA receptor by direct binding of neurosteroids, the inhibitory effects described in this study seem to involve distinct mechanisms. This new inhibitory effect of progesterone is observed at low and physiological concentrations, is rapid and independent of RU38486, an antagonist of the classic progesterone receptor, probably involving a membrane receptor. Using RT-PCR, we demonstrated the expression of progesterone receptor membrane component 1 (Pgrmc1), encoding 25-Dx, a membrane-associated progesterone binding protein in DRG neurones at different stages of development. In conclusion, we describe for the first time a rapid effect of progestins on embryonic DRG neurones involving an antagonistic effect of progesterone and allopregnanolone on GABAA receptors.
Previous reports have shown that gap junctions relay cell death in many cell types. However, changes in electrical coupling and their dynamics during cell death are poorly understood. We performed comprehensive studies of electrical coupling following induction of cell death by single-cell cytochrome c (cyC) injection in paired Xenopus oocytes. Cell death was rapidly induced by cyC in injected cells, and cell death was also observed in uninjected bystander cells electrically coupled to the cyC-injected oocytes. Gap junction currents either remained at pre-cyC injection levels or increased dramatically as the injected cell died. Nonjunctional currents increased in injected cells immediately following cyC injection; nonjunctional currents increased slowly in uninjected bystander cells. Bystander cell death occurred only when junctional conductance was approximately 6 muS. Both 1,2-bis-(o-aminophenoxy)-ethane-N,N,-N',N'-tetraacetic acid tetraacetoxy-methyl ester and Xestospongin C inhibited bystander cell death in pairs that had reached the death conductance threshold, suggesting that Ca(2+) and inositol 1,4,5 triphosphate are involved in the process.
Prion diseases are among the most intriguing illnesses. Despite their rare incidence, they have captured enormous attention from the scientific community and general public. One of the most hotly debated issues in these diseases is the nature of the infectious material. In recent years increasing evidence has emerged supporting the protein-only hypothesis of prion transmission. In this model PrPSc (the pathological isoform of the prion protein, PrPC) represents the sole component of the infectious particle. However, uncertainties about possible additional factors involved in the conversion of PrPC into PrPSc remain despite extensive attempts to isolate and characterize these elusive components. In this article, we review recent developments concerning the protein-only hypothesis as well as the possible involvement of cellular factors in PrPC to PrPSc conformational change and their influence on the pathogenesis of prion diseases.
The espins are novel actin-bundling proteins that are produced in multiple isoforms from a single gene. They are present at high concentration in the parallel actin bundle of hair cell stereocilia and are the target of deafness mutations in mice and humans. Espins are also enriched in the microvilli of taste receptor cells, solitary chemoreceptor cells, vomeronasal sensory neurons and Merkel cells, suggesting that espins play important roles in the microvillar projections of vertebrate sensory cells. Espins are potent actin-bundling proteins that are not inhibited by Ca2+. In cells, they efficiently elongate parallel actin bundles and, thereby, help determine the steadystate length of microvilli and stereocilia. Espins bind actin monomer via their WH2 domain and can assemble actin bundles in cells. Certain espin isoforms can also bind phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate, profilins or SH3 proteins. These biological activities distinguish espins from other actin-bundling proteins and may make them well-suited to sensory cells.

The integration of different visual attributes into the percept of a single global shape is a central aspect of object processing. In hierarchically organized stimuli with local and global levels, the attentional focus largely determines which level is processed. Here we tested the hypothesis that object processing during attention to the global aspect of the stimulus is characterized by an increased neural coupling between visual areas reflecting the integration of local features. In the present experiment, we used global letters that were constructed by smaller local letters, and a cue signaled which spatial level should be identified. On the local level, only 1 relevant letter was presented laterally in 1 visual hemifield. In contrast, the global letter extended into both hemifields, and the integration of information from both hemispheres was necessary to identify the global stimulus. Therefore, we expected an increased functional coupling between hemispheres during global processing. This hypothesis was investigated using electroencephalographic recordings and an analysis of phase locking and coherence. The results show that stimulus-locked neural coupling within the gamma band (30-40 Hz) across hemispheres in visual cortex increased for global processing after stimulus presentation and could therefore reflect the integration of local visual information.
We examined the effects of odorant inhalation on the sleep-wake states in rats. Odorants used in the experiment were clove, jasmine, lavender, lemon, peppermint, pine, rose, sandalwood, valerian, and ylang-ylang. Valerian and rose inhalation significantly prolonged the pentobarbital-induced sleeping time, whereas lemon inhalation significantly shortened it. The effect of valerian inhalation was markedly noticeable. In the anosmic rats, a significant effect of odorants on the pentobarbital sleep time was not seen. Electroencephalographic studies on natural sleep revealed that rose inhalation did not exert any significant effect on sleep, but a significant shortening in sleep latency and a significant prolonging in total sleep time were observed with valerian inhalation, whereas a significant prolonging in sleep latency was observed with lemon inhalation. Such effects of valerian and lemon inhalation were not admitted in anosmic rats. gamma-Aminobutyric acid (GABA) transaminase assay indicates that valerian inhalation decreases the activity of the enzyme and enhances GABA activity. Although valerian has been reported to exert a good effect for sleep as a medicine for internal use, the present study is the first medical report suggesting that the inhalation of valerian may enhance the sleep. On the other hand, the present results may suggest the possibility that lemon inhalation may cause a worsening of insomnia symptoms.
This article reviews classical and updated studies of the neurobiology of depressive disorders in children and adolescents. Most studies of childhood and adolescent depression and suicide have followed up the observations and methods used in studies in adults. These studies include neuroendocrine studies, which particularly look at the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, the serotonergic system, peripheral blood and cerebrospinal fluid biologic markers, genetics, gene-environment interactions and sleep studies, and neuroimaging and postmortem studies, although in these areas the number of studies is limited.

The hypothalamus plays a critical role in the regulation of food intake and body weight, and recent work has defined a core circuitry in the hypothalamus that appears to mediate many of the effects of the adipocyte-derived hormone leptin on feeding and glucose homeostasis. However, until recently, little was known about the development of these critical pathways. This review summarizes recent advances regarding the post-natal development of 'metabolic' projections from the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus. Evidence accumulated primarily in mice indicates that these circuits develop after birth and remain both structurally and functionally immature until the second week of life. Recent studies have begun to identify cues governing development of these pathways, and leptin appears to play a crucial neurotrophic role in the development of the hypothalamic circuits regulating food intake and adiposity. The neurodevelopmental actions of leptin appear specifically to be restricted to a neonatal critical period that coincides with the naturally occurring surge in leptin. In addition, the timing and amplitude of the post-natal leptin surge has important consequences for normal body weight regulation and glucose homeostasis later in life. Ultimately, these data promise to provide new insight into the mechanisms by which alteration of perinatal nutrition may have long-term consequences on body weight regulation and adiposity in the offspring.




The 5-HT(2C) receptor subtype has been implicated in a wide variety of conditions including obesity, anxiety, depression, obsessive compulsive disorder, schizophrenia, migraine and erectile dysfunction and as a consequence has received considerable attention as a target for drug discovery. Here we review the pharmacological, pharmacokinetic and toxicological profile of WAY-163909 {(7bR,10aR)-1,2,3,4,8,9,10,10a-octahydro-7bH-cyclopenta-[b][1,4]diazepino[6,7,1hi]indole}, a novel 5-HT(2C) receptor selective agonist. Consistent with a potential therapeutic utility in obesity, schizophrenia and depression WAY-163909 was found to have robust dose-dependent effects in animal models of obesity, psychotic-like behavior or depression.
In this review, we summarize and discuss recent studies on structural plasticity changes, particularly apoptosis, in the mammalian hippocampus in relation to stress and depression. Apoptosis continues to occur, yet with very low numbers, in the adult hippocampal dentate gyrus (DG) of various species. Stress and steroid exposure modulate the rate of apoptosis in the DG. Contrary to earlier studies, the impact of chronic stress on structural parameters of the hippocampus like cell number and volume, is rather modest, and requires prolonged and severe stress exposure before only small reductions (&lt; 10 %) become detectable. This does not exclude other structural parameters, like synaptic terminal structure, or dendritic arborization from being significantly altered in critical hippocampal subregions like the DG and/or CA3. Neither does it imply that the functional implications of the changes after stress are also modest. Of interest, most of the structural plasticity changes appear transient and are generally reversible after appropiate recovery periods, or following cessation or blockade of the stress or corticosteroid exposure. The temporary slowing down of both apoptosis and adult proliferation, i.e. the DG turnover, after chronic stress will affect the overall composition, average age and identity of DG cells, and will have considerable consequences for the connectivity, input and properties of the hippocampal circuit and thus for memory function. Modulation of apoptosis and neurogenesis, by drugs interfering with stress components like MR and/or GR, and/or mediators of the cell death cascade, may therefore provide important drug targets for the modulation of mood and memory.
Exposure to stressful events has profound impact on hippocampus-dependent learning and memory processes. Traumatic and stressful experiences are remembered well in general, but have also been reported to suppress learning and memory processes. These bi-directional effects are, at least in part, modulated by corticosteroid hormones that are released during exposure to stressful experiences. An important question that remains to be addressed is how exactly exposure to stressful situations and elevated corticosteroid hormone levels affect learning and memory processes. Evidence is accumulating that exposure to stressful situations and elevated corticosteroid hormone levels modulates fast excitatory amino acid mediated synaptic transmission and synaptic plasticity, which are considered to underlie learning and memory processes in the hippocampus. In particular, exposure to stressful events has been reported to facilitate synaptic plasticity when delivered shortly before or after high frequency stimulation. By contrast, stressful events and elevated corticosteroid hormones suppress synaptic potentiation when stress precedes high frequency stimulation. From the mechanistic point of view, it is potentially important that exposure to stressful events and elevated corticosteroid hormone levels target key mechanisms that are involved in synaptic plasticity, i.e. AMPA receptors and NMDA receptors.
In this review we shall attempt to summarize the literature published on the high responders/low responders' animal model of drug addiction. This model is based on the locomotor activity of rats in the mild stress of a novel environment. Rats that exhibit high rates of exploratory behaviours are deemed high responders (HR) and rats that exhibit low exploratory behaviours are deemed low responders (LR). Interestingly, the rate of these exploratory behaviours predicts the response of these animals to drugs of abuse. In this manuscript we will review the behavioural and physiological differences between HR and LR rats in response to d-amphemtamine, cocaine, morphine, alcohol and nicotine.
Pigs are increasingly used as in vivo models in neuroscience, including studies using positron emission tomography. During anesthesia, cerebral blood flow (CBF) and cerebral blood volume (CBV) are mainly regulated by the partial pressure of CO2 (pCO2) in arterial blood. We sought to determine the effects of increased arterial pCO2 (hypercapnia) on CBF and CBV in anesthetized domestic pigs. We anesthetized 4 pigs and manipulated the tidal volume of the ventilator to different pCO2 levels. Baseline pCO2 was on average 6.5 kPa (n = 9 periods) and hypercapnia pCO2 ranged from 11 to 20 kPa, mean 18.5 kPa (n = 9 periods). Series of dynamic PET scans with H(2)15O (CBF measurements) and C15O (CBV measurements) were performed. CBF increased on average 54%, from mean 0.48 ml blood/min/ml brain tissue during normoxia to 0.74 ml blood/min/ml brain tissue during hypercapnia. CBV increased 41% from mean 0.061 ml blood/ml brain tissue (n = 6) during normoxia to 0.086 ml blood/ml brain tissue (n = 6) during hypercapnia. Our observations indicate that pCO2 levels have a major influence on porcine CBF and CBV and should be controlled in studies where a constant level is crucial.

This chapter focuses on early aggressive management of common infections of the central nervous system that require monitoring in an ICU setting. These include meningitis, encephalitis, brain and epidural abscess, subdural empyema and ventriculitis. It emphasizes priorities in evaluation and management due to increasing morbidity and mortality as a result of failure to appreciate non-specific symptoms or administer timely therapy. The emergence of organisms resistant to penicillin and cephalosporins has also further complicated the early management of bacterial meningitis. Current antimicrobial guidelines are provided along with discussion of new diagnostic and therapeutic strategies and controversial aspects of management.
Spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is associated with the highest mortality of all cerebrovascular events, and most survivors never regain functional independence. Many clinicians believe that effective therapies are lacking for patients who have ICH; however, this perception is changing in light of new data on the pathophysiology and treatment of this disorder, in particular, research establishing the role of medical therapies to promote hematoma stabilization. This article discusses the basic principles of management of ICH, including initial stabilization, the prevention of hematoma growth, treatment of complications, and identification of the underlying etiology. In addition, minimally invasive surgery to reduce clot size is discussed, with the goal of preserving neurologic function through reduction in parenchymal damage from edema formation.

Recent advances in molecular genetics have produced many novel strategies for directing the expression of both functional and regulatory elements in transgenic mice. With the application of such approaches, the specific populations that comprise CNS networks can be both visualized and manipulated. Transgenic methods now range from the use of specific enhancer elements and large genomic regions assembled using BACs and PACs, to the use of gene targeting to a specific locus. In addition, the advent of transactivators and site-specific recombinases has provided unprecedented spatial and temporal control for directing expression in the CNS using a combination of appropriate alleles. As a result, the promise of being able to use transgenics to target specific neuronal populations is now being realized.
Advanced optical imaging techniques used in neurobiology commonly employ fluorescent molecules for studying the structure and function of neural tissue. To obtain adequate spatio-temporal resolution, sophisticated scanning schemes are used to manage the excitation light going to and emission light coming from objects under observation. Although the fundamental principles of these techniques remain the same, such as scanning point illumination and point detection for confocal imaging, their physical implementation is the subject of technological advance, for example, the advent of inertia-free discontinuous scanning schemes. In general, the aims of these technological advances are to improve the spatio-temporal resolution of and/or reduce potential photodamage caused by optical imaging in live neural tissue. The number of recent advances in scanning methods indicates their increasing importance in imaging techniques.
Chemical synaptic transmission provides the basis for much of the rapid signaling that occurs within neuronal networks. However, recent studies have provided compelling evidence that synapses are not used exclusively for communication between neurons. Physiological and anatomical studies indicate that a distinct class of glia known as NG2(+) cells also forms direct synaptic junctions with both glutamatergic and GABAergic neurons. Glutamatergic signaling can influence intracellular Ca(2+) levels in NG2(+) cells by activating Ca(2+) permeable AMPA receptors, and these inputs can be potentiated through high frequency stimulation. Although the significance of this highly differentiated form of communication remains to be established, these neuro-glia synapses might enable neurons to influence rapidly the behavior of this ubiquitous class of glial progenitors.
Identifying the neural circuits that mediate particular behaviors and uncovering their plasticity is an endeavor at the heart of neuroscience. This effort is allied with the elucidation of plasticity mechanisms, because the molecular determinants of plasticity can be markers for the neurons and synapses that are modified by experience. Of particular interest is protein synthesis localized to the synapse, which might establish and maintain the stable modification of neuronal properties, including the pattern and strength of synaptic connections. Recent studies reveal that microRNAs and the RISC pathway regulate synaptic protein synthesis. Is synaptic activity of the RISC pathway a molecular signature of memory?
The design and manipulation of proteins has created many tools that have become popular in neurobiological studies, and new developments in protein science will be the fuel for future research. Genetically encoded protein-based biosensors have been developed with a wider range of sensing moieties, enabling detection of changes in localized protein synthesis, voltage, glutamate and/or glucose levels. Existing sensors, such as cameleon, have been modified and improved. Heterologous expression of Channelrhodopsin-2 and other light-gated methods for controlling cellular polarization enable action potentials to be non-invasively evoked, facilitating the study and modulation of behavior in intact animals. Finally, new methods in protein manipulation, including the site-specific incorporation of unnatural amino acids in vivo and the directed evolution of proteins, show promise in elucidating neural function with greater precision and flexibility.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation is now a well-established tool for inducing transient changes in brain activity non-invasively in conscious human volunteers. During the past couple of years, the ability to actively interfere with neural processing during behavioral performance has been used increasingly for the investigation of causal brain-behavior relationships in higher cognitive functions. The simultaneous combination of transcranial magnetic stimulation with methods of functional brain imaging, however, promises to be of especially great value for our understanding of the human brain, as it provides the opportunity to stimulate brain circuits while simultaneously monitoring changes in brain activity and behavior. Such an approach could help us to identify brain networks of functional relevance, and might enable causal brain-behavior inferences across the entire brain.
Action potential conduction in myelinated nerve fibers depends on a polarized axonal membrane. Voltage-gated Na(+) and K(+) channels are clustered at nodes of Ranvier and mediate the transmembrane currents necessary for rapid saltatory conduction. Paranodal junctions flank nodes and function as attachment sites for myelin and as paracellular and membrane protein diffusion barriers. Common molecular mechanisms, directed by myelinating glia, are used to establish these axonal membrane domains. Initially, heterophilic interactions between glial and axonal cell adhesion molecules define the locations where nodes or paranodes form. Subsequently, within each domain, axonal cell adhesion molecules are stabilized and retained through interactions with cytoskeletal and scaffolding proteins, including ankyrins and spectrins.
Neuropoietin (NP) is a recently identified member of the interleukin (IL)-6 family of cytokines, which share glycoprotein 130 (gp130) as a signal-transducing receptor component, and is highly expressed in embryonic brain. In this study, we show that NP has the potential to induce neuroepithelial cells to differentiate into astrocytes. NP stimulation leads to promoter activation of the gene for an astrocyte marker, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), which is clearly inhibited by either expression of a dominant-negative form of a transcription factor, signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) or by a nucleotide-substitution in the STAT3-binding element within the gene promoter. We further show that NP induces binding of endogenous STAT3 to its cognate sequence within the gfap gene promoter in neuroepithelial cells. Moreover, like the other IL-6 cytokine family members, NP promotes astrocyte differentiation in a synergistic manner with bone-morphogenetic protein (BMP)-2. Taken together, our data indicate that NP can be considered as a new astrocyte-inducing cytokine in the developing brain.

Astrocytes constitute a major class of glial cells in the CNS, and play crucial roles in physiological functioning, performance and maintenance of the CNS, as well as promotion of neuronal migration and maturation. Astrocytes have also been directly and indirectly implicated in the pathophysiology of various trauma occurrences, development of neurodegenerative diseases and nerve regeneration. To further understand mechanisms by which astrocytes elicit these effects, the first critical step in the study of astrocytes is the preparation of purified astrocytes cultures. Here we describe a simple and convenient procedure for producing rat primary astrocyte cultures of high purity, viability and proliferation. For astrocyte culture, we have optimized the isolation procedures and cultivation conditions including coating substrates, enzyme digestion, seeding density and composition of the culture medium. Using immunofluorescent antibodies against GFAP and OX-42 in combination of Hoechst 33342 fluorescent staining, we found that the purity of the astrocyte cultures was &gt;99%. Astrocytes had high viability as measured by 3-(4, 5-dimethyl-2-yl)-2, 5-diphenyl-2H-tetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay. In addition, flow cytometric analysis was used to measure and observe variations in the cell cycle after 1-2 passages and proliferation of astrocytes was detected with a high percentage of cells stand in S+G(2)/M phase. Therefore, the method described here is ideal for experiments, which require highly pure astrocyte cultures.
Gravity has been a constant physical factor during the evolution and development of life on Earth. We have been studying effects of simulated microgravity on gene expression in transgenic zebrafish embryos expressing gfp under the influence of gene-specific promoters. In this study, we assessed the effect of microgravity on the expression of the heat shock protein 70 (hsp70) gene in lens during development using transgenic zebrafish embryos expressing gfp under the control of hsp70 promoter/enhancer. Hsp70:gfp expression was up-regulated (45%) compared with controls during the developmental period that included the lens differentiation stage. This increase was lens specific, because the entire embryo showed only a 4% increase in gfp expression. Northern blot and in situ hybridization analysis indicated that the hsp70:gfp expression recapitulated endogenous hsp70 mRNA expression. Hypergravity exposure also increased hsp70 expression during the same period. In situ hybridization analysis for two lens-specific crystallin genes revealed that neither micro- nor hypergravity affected the expression level of betaB1-crystallin, a non-hsp gene used as a marker for lens differentiation. However, hypergravity changed the expression level of alphaA-crystallin, a member of the small hsp gene family. Terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated deoxyuridinetriphosphate nick end-labeling (TUNEL) assay analysis showed that altered-gravity (Deltag) decreased apoptosis in lens during the same period and the decrease correlated with the up-regulation of hsp70 expression, suggesting that elimination of nuclei from differentiating lens fiber cells was suppressed probably through hsp70 up-regulation. These results support the idea that Deltag influences hsp70 expression and differentiation in lens-specific and developmental period specific manners and that hsp family genes play a specific role in the response to Deltag.
The transcription factor Zic1 plays important roles in patterning the neural plate in early vertebrate development. However, few genes that are regulated by Zic1 are known. We have identified a new direct downstream target gene of Zic1 that we have named Xfeb. Xfeb is a member of the pathogenesis-related (PR) protein superfamily and contains five tandem SCP domains. The sequence of Xfeb suggests that it may possess serine protease activity. Xfeb is expressed in the presumptive hindbrain region during neurula stages and in somite tissues later in development. Xfeb represses the hindbrain gene hoxB1 and the anterior neural gene otx2, suggesting that Xfeb is involved in regionalizing the neural plate, possibly by ensuring a posterior expression limit for otx2.
Neural crest cells give rise to a wide variety of cell types, including cartilage cells in the cranium and neurons and glial cells in the peripheral nervous system. To examine the relationship of cartilage differentiation and neural crest differentiation, we examined the expression of Col2a1, which encodes type 2 collagen often used as a cartilage marker, and compared it with the expression of Sox transcription factor genes, which are involved in neural crest development and chondrogenesis. We found that Col2a1 is expressed in many neural crest-derived cell types along with combinations of Sox9, Sox10 and LSox5. Overexpression studies reveal the activation of Col2a1 expression by Sox9 and Sox10, and cross-regulation of these Sox genes. Luciferase assay indicates a direct activation of the Col2a1 enhancer/promoter both by Sox9 and Sox10, and this activation is further enhanced by cAMP-dependent kinase (PKA) signaling. Our study suggests that the regulatory mechanisms are similar in cartilage and neural crest differentiation.
Congenital bilateral perisylvian polymicrogyria syndrome (CBPS) has a cerebral cortical localization and its phenotype was thought to be purely central. This study of seven children with CBPS (five males, two females; mean age 5 y [SD 3 y 6 mo]; range 1 mo-11 y 10 mo) documents electrophysiological evidence of lower motor neuron involvement in association with congenital contractures (limb or jaw) in six of the seven children studied. This is not an expected association and does not conform to the traditional lesional classification system of the cerebral palsies. Possible pathogenic mechanisms are discussed but this association of upper and lower motor neuron involvement is likely to be a previously unsuspected part of a genetic or other pathogenic sequence.
Hydrocephalus in children has many aetiologies, and can cause multiple ophthalmic and visual disorders. This study sets out to detect and quantify visual and visuoperceptual dysfunction in children who have received surgical treatment for hydrocephalus with and without myelomeningocele, and to relate the results to the associated diagnoses and results from a comparison group. Seventy-five school-aged children (41 males, 34 females) with surgically-treated hydrocephalus and 140 comparison children (76 males, 64 females) matched for age and sex underwent comprehensive ophthalmologic examination. Median age at examination was 9 years and 4 months (range 7 y 4 mo-12 y 10 mo). Visual function deficits were identified in 83% (62/75) of the children with hydrocephalus. Visual impairment (binocular visual acuity &lt;0.3) was found in 15% (11/73; comparison group 0%) but in none with myelomeningocele. Strabismus was found in 69% (51/74; comparison group 4% [5/140], p &lt; 0.001), and refractive errors were found in 67% (47/70; comparison group 20% [28/140], p &lt; 0.001). Cognitive visual dysfunction was identified in 59% (38/64; comparison group 3% [4/140], p &lt; 0.001). These disorders were identified in various combinations and comprised impaired ability to plan movement through depth (e.g. going down a stair), impaired simultaneous perception, impaired perception of movement, impaired orientation, and (least frequently) impaired recognition. In this study, children with hydrocephalus associated with myelomeningocele were least commonly affected. Visual disorders were most frequent in those with epilepsy, cerebral palsy, and/or cognitive disability.
Much controversy has surrounded the diagnosis of bipolar disorder (BD) in children and adolescents. However, recent work from an affective neuroscience perspective has advanced what is known about the boundaries of emotion regulation in BD compared to typically developing youth. In this article, we first briefly review the clinical issues that have contributed to this diagnostic controversy. Second, we discuss our phenotyping system, which can be used to guide neurobiological research designed to address these controversial issues. Third, we review what is known about the fundamentals of emotion regulation in human and nonhuman primate models. Fourth, we present recent data demonstrating how children and adolescents with BD differ from those without psychopathology on measures of emotion regulation. Taken as a whole, this work implicates a neural circuit encompassing the prefrontal cortex, amygdala, and striatum in the pathophysiology of pediatric BD.
The basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor Hand2, together with Ascl1, Phox2a, Phox2b and Gata2/Gata3, is induced by bone morphogenetic proteins in neural crest-derived precursor cells during sympathetic neuron generation. Hand2 overexpression experiments and the analysis of its function at the Dbh promotor implicated Hand2 in the control of noradrenergic gene expression. Using the zebrafish hand2 deletion mutant hands off, we have now investigated the physiological role of hand2 in the development of sympathetic ganglia. In hands off mutant embryos, sympathetic precursor cells aggregate to form normal sympathetic ganglion primordia characterized by the expression of phox2b, phox2a and the achaete-scute family member zash1a/ascl1. The expression of the noradrenergic marker genes th and dbh is strongly reduced, as well as the transcription factors gata2 and tfap2a (Ap-2alpha). By contrast, generic neuronal differentiation seems to be unaffected, as the expression of elavl3 (HuC) is not reduced in hands off sympathetic ganglia. These results demonstrate in vivo an essential and selective function of hand2 for the noradrenergic differentiation of sympathetic neurons, and implicates tfap2a and gata2 as downstream effectors.
Neural crest cells (NCCs) are pluripotent migratory cells that are crucial to the development of the peripheral nervous system, pigment cells and craniofacial cartilage and bone. NCCs are specified within the dorsal ectoderm and undergo an epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT) in order to migrate to target destinations where they differentiate. Here we report a role for a member of the semaphorin family of cell guidance molecules in NCC development. Morpholino-mediated knockdown of Sema3d inhibits the proliferation of hindbrain neuroepithelial cells. In addition, Sema3d knockdown reduces markers of migratory NCCs and disrupts NCC-derived tissues. Similarly, expression of a dominant-repressor form of TCF (DeltaTCF) reduces hindbrain cell proliferation and leads to a disruption of migratory NCC markers. Moreover, expression of DeltaTCF downregulates sema3d RNA expression. Finally, Sema3d overexpression rescues reduced proliferation caused by DeltaTCF expression, suggesting that Sema3d lies downstream of Wnt/TCF signaling in the molecular pathway thought to control cell cycle in NCC precursors.
We previously demonstrated that insulin has a neuroprotective role against oxidative stress, a deleterious condition associated with diabetes, ischemia, and age-related neurodegenerative diseases. In this study, we investigated the effect of insulin on neuronal glucose uptake and metabolism after oxidative stress in rat primary cortical neurons. On oxidative stress, insulin stimulates neuronal glucose uptake and subsequent metabolism into pyruvate, restoring intracellular ATP and phosphocreatine. Insulin also increases intracellular and decreases extracellular adenosine, counteracting the effect of oxidative stress. Insulin effects are apparently mediated by phosphatidylinositol 3-K and extracellular signal-regulated kinase signaling pathways. Extracellular adenosine under oxidative stress is largely inhibited after blockade of ecto-5'-nucleotidase, suggesting that extracellular adenosine results preferentially from ATP release and catabolism. Moreover, insulin appears to interfere with the ATP release induced by oxidative stress, regulating extracellular adenosine levels. In conclusion, insulin neuroprotection against oxidative stress-mediated damage involves 1) stimulation of glucose uptake and metabolism, increasing energy levels and intracellular adenosine and, ultimately, uric acid formation and 2) a decrease in extracellular adenosine, which may reduce the facilitatory activity of adenosine receptors.
Lobeline has high affinity for nicotinic acetylcholine receptors and inhibits the function of vesicular and plasmalemmal monoamine transporters. Moreover, lobeline has been shown to alter the neurochemical and behavioral effects of psychostimulants. The present study determined the effect of lobeline and drugs selective for nicotinic receptors on the discriminative stimulus properties of low doses of cocaine (1.6 or 5.0 mg/kg) or d-amphetamine (0.3 mg/kg) in rats, using a standard two-lever drug discrimination procedure with food reinforcement. Nicotine substituted for both amphetamine and cocaine. The nicotinic receptor antagonists mecamylamine and hexamethonium did not substitute for or block the cocaine or amphetamine stimulus. In contrast, lobeline substituted for cocaine, but did not substitute for amphetamine. In antagonism tests, lobeline doses that did not substitute for cocaine decreased responding on the cocaine-paired levers. Surprisingly, lobeline did not alter the discriminative stimulus properties of amphetamine. This research further supports the supposition that nicotine, cocaine and amphetamine produce similar, but distinct subjective states. Furthermore, the present findings suggest that lobeline has a complex mechanism of action to disrupt the behavioral effects of drugs of abuse.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of senile dementia and the fourth highest cause of disability and death in the elderly. Amyloid-beta (Abeta) has been widely implicated in the etiology of AD. Several mechanisms have been proposed for Abeta clearance, including receptor-mediated Abeta transport across the blood-brain barrier and enzyme-mediated Abeta degradation. Moreover, pre-existing immune responses to Abeta might also be involved in Abeta clearance. In AD, such mechanisms appear to have become impaired. Recently, therapeutic approaches for Abeta clearance, targeting immunotherapy and molecules binding Abeta, have been developed. In this review, we discuss recent progress and problems with respect to Abeta clearance mechanisms and propose strategies for the development of therapeutics targeting Abeta clearance.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is the most common degenerative motor neuron disease in adults, and dysphagia is one of its most frequent and disabling symptoms. Oropharyngoesophageal scintigraphy (OPES) permits a functional and semiquantitative study of the various stages of swallowing. We studied 28 ALS patients (12 females and 16 males; mean age = 63.57 +/- 10.39 yr SD), who were clinically rated against the ALSFRS scale (Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Functioning Rating Scale) and underwent OPES with (99m)Tc-nanocolloid using either a liquid or a semisolid bolus. The semiquantitative parameters we analyzed were Oral Transit Time (OTT), Pharyngeal Transit Time (PTT), Esophageal Transit Time (ETT), Retention Index (RI), and Esophageal Emptying Rate (EER(10s)). Hence, the OPES performed with a semisolid bolus produced a higher proportion of pathologic values for the swallowing variables than when liquid bolus was used. Analyzed by grouping the patients into classes according to their bulbar ALSFRS scores, we found a significant increase in the OTT (p &lt; 0.005), PTT (p &lt; 0.02), and Oropharyngeal Retention Index (OPRI) (p &lt; 0.0004) variables in ALS patients with more severe bulbar involvement. OPES has turned out to be a very important examination for detecting tracheal-bronchial inhalation and it also offers the possibility of acquiring a semiquantitative evaluation of the amount of food inhaled. In our experience, OPES in patients with ALS has been easy to use, economic, well tolerated, and capable of supplying precise indications with regard to the extent of the swallowing disorder, which permits a better clinical definition of the ALS patient.
Botulinum toxins are metalloproteases that act inside nerve terminals and block neurotransmitter release through their cleavage of components of the exocytosis machinery. These toxins are used to treat human diseases that are characterized by hyperfunction of cholinergic terminals. Recently, evidence has accumulated that gangliosides and synaptic vesicle proteins cooperate to mediate toxin binding to the presynaptic terminal. The differential distribution of synaptic vesicle protein receptors, gangliosides and toxin substrates in distinct neuronal populations opens up the possibility of using different serotypes of botulinum toxins for the treatment of central nervous system diseases caused by altered activity of selected neuronal populations.

In seasonal species, photoperiod organizes various physiological processes, including reproduction. Recent data indicate that the expression of type 2 iodothyronine deiodinase (Dio2) is modulated by photoperiod in the mediobasal hypothalamus of some seasonal species. Dio2 is believed to control the local synthesis of bioactive T(3) to regulate gonadal response. Here we used in situ hybridization to study Dio2 expression in the hypothalamus of a photoperiodic rodent, the Syrian hamster. Dio2 was highly expressed in reproductively active hamsters in long day, whereas it was dramatically reduced in sexually inhibited hamsters maintained in short day. This contrasted with the laboratory rat, a nonphotoperiodic species, in which no evidence for Dio2 photoperiodic modulation was seen. We also demonstrate that photoperiodic variations of Dio2 expression in hamsters are independent from secondary changes in gonadal steroids. Studies in pinealectomized hamsters showed that the photoperiodic variation of Dio2 expression is melatonin dependent, and injections of long day hamsters with melatonin for only 7 d were sufficient to inhibit Dio2 expression to that of short day levels. Finally, because in some seasonal species thyroid hormones are involved in photorefractoriness, we examined Dio2 expression in short day-refractory hamsters and found that Dio2 mRNA levels remained low despite full reproductive recrudescence. Altogether, these results demonstrate that in the Syrian hamster Dio2 is photoperiodically modulated via a melatonin-dependent process. Furthermore, refractoriness to photoperiod in hamsters appears to occur independently of Dio2. These results raise new perspectives for understanding how thyroid hormones are involved in the control of photoperiodic neuroendocrine processes.


Comorbidity between bipolar disorder and anxiety disorders has attracted considerable attention in recent years. However, a majority of the earlier studies examined anxiety disorders in acutely ill patients resulting in a possible confounding effect of the affective episodes. This study examines the prevalence of anxiety disorders in remitted bipolar subjects recruited from a psychiatric hospital in India and their effect on the severity of bipolar illness. A total of eighty remitted DSM-IV adult bipolar subjects and 50 non-psychiatric controls were recruited over a 10-month period. They were evaluated using a structured interview and various scales. The effect of anxiety disorders on bipolar severity was analyzed using multiple regression analyses. Anxiety disorders were highly prevalent in bipolar subjects compared to controls (49 [61%] vs. 7 [14%], chi(2) = 28.01, P &lt; 0.001). Commonest lifetime anxiety disorder was obsessive-compulsive disorder (35%). Lifetime anxiety disorder had significant effect on all four indices of severity of illness, that included (1) percentage of time spent in episodes (Beta = 18.67, SE = 5.11, P &lt; 0.001), (2) maximum period of continuous euthymia in the preceding 2 years (Beta = -5.26, SE = 1.71, P = 0.003), (3) presence of psychosis (Beta = 3.22, SE = 1.02, P = 0.002), and 4) response to mood stabilizers (Beta = -2.11, SE = 0.76, P = 0.006). The findings of this study confirm previous observations of the high prevalence and negative impact of comorbid anxiety disorders in bipolar disorder and also demonstrate that the findings are similar in culturally diverse settings. Future studies should systematically examine the various treatment options for anxiety disorders in bipolar patients. It is also necessary to examine the neurobiological and family/genetic correlates of anxious bipolar subjects to validate if they are a subgroup of bipolar disorders.
In this study, generalisation effects to day-care/school settings were examined in an outpatient clinic sample of 127 children aged 4-8 years treated because of oppositional conduct problems in the home with parent training (PT) and parent training combined with child therapy (CT) (&quot;Incredible Years&quot;). Before treatment all children scored above the 90th percentile on the Eyberg Child Behavior Inventory (ECBI) for home problems, and met criteria for a possible or a confirmed diagnosis of either an oppositional defiant (ODD) or a conduct (CD) disorder. Further, 83% of the children showed clinical levels of conduct problems both at home and in day-care/school before treatment. Although most children improved at home, the majority still showed clinical levels of conduct problems in day-care/school settings after treatment and 1-year later. Combined PT and CT produced the most powerful and significant generalisation effects across the treatment period, however these improvements were not maintained 1-year later for most areas. The results of the present study, therefore, underline the need to target conduct problems not only exhibited at home but also in day-care/school settings, and to develop strategies to maintain positive generalisation effects after treatment for this age and problem-group.
Mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) are a rare subset of stem cells residing in the bone marrow where they closely interact with hematopoietic stem cells and support their growth and differentiation. MSC can differentiate into multiple mesenchymal and non-mesenchymal lineages, providing a promising tool for tissue repair. In addition, MSC suppress many T cell, B cell and NK cell functions and may affect also dendritic cell activities. Due to their limited immunogenicity, MSC are poorly recognized by HLA-incompatible hosts. Based on these unique properties, MSC are currently under investigation for their possible use to treat immuno-mediated diseases. However, both their condition of immunoprivilege and their immunosuppressive function have recently been challenged when analyzed under particular experimental conditions. Thus, it is likely that MSC effects on the immune system may be deeply influenced not only by cell-to-cell interactions, but also by environmental factors shaping their phenotype and functions.
Cluster headache and the other trigeminal-autonomic cephalalgias [paroxysmal hemicrania, short-lasting unilateral neuralgiform headache attacks with conjunctival injection and tearing (SUNCT) syndrome] are rare but very disabling conditions with a major impact on the patient's quality of life. The objective of this study was to give evidence-based recommendations for the treatment of these headache disorders based on a literature search and consensus amongst a panel of experts. All available medical reference systems were screened for any kind of studies on cluster headache, paroxysmal hemicrania and SUNCT syndrome. The findings in these studies were evaluated according to the recommendations of the European Federation of Neurological Societies resulting in level A, B or C recommendations and good practice points. For the acute treatment of cluster headache attacks, oxygen (100%) with a flow of at least 7 l/min over 15 min and 6 mg subcutaneous sumatriptan are drugs of first choice. Prophylaxis of cluster headache should be performed with verapamil at a daily dose of at least 240 mg (maximum dose depends on efficacy or tolerability). Although no class I or II trials are available, steroids are clearly effective in cluster headache. Therefore, the use of at least 100 mg methylprednisone (or equivalent corticosteroid) given orally or at up to 500 mg i.v. per day over 5 days (then tapering down) is recommended. Methysergide, lithium and topiramate are recommended as alternative treatments. Surgical procedures, although in part promising, require further scientific evaluation. For paroxysmal hemicranias, indomethacin at a daily dose of up to 225 mg is the drug of choice. For treatment of SUNCT syndrome, large series suggest that lamotrigine is the most effective preventive agent, with topiramate and gabapentin also being useful. Intravenous lidocaine may also be helpful as an acute therapy when patients are extremely distressed and disabled by frequent attacks.
Four essential diagnostic criteria for restless legs syndrome (RLS) have been identified. Patients experience an urge to move the legs, which typically begins or worsens during periods of rest. The symptoms are at least partially relieved by movement, and are typically worse in the evening and night than in the day. All four criteria are necessary to confirm the diagnosis of RLS. In addition, a family history of RLS, the presence of periodic leg movements in sleep, and a positive response to dopaminergic therapy are useful supportive clinical features to confirm the diagnosis. Whilst many cases of RLS are idiopathic, secondary RLS is often observed in pregnant women, patients who have severe renal dysfunction, or in those with iron deficiency. Several other conditions have symptoms similar to those of RLS, but a detailed patient history is usually sufficient to identify these differential diagnoses. The accurate diagnosis and appropriate treatment of RLS should result in considerable improvements in patients' quality of life.
Accumulating evidence suggests that thalamic nuclei relay corollary discharge information of saccadic eye movements, enabling the visual system to update the representation of visual space. The present study aimed to explore the effect of thalamic lesions in humans on updating-related cortical processing. Event-related potentials were recorded while four patients with impairments in using corollary discharge information and 12 healthy control subjects performed a saccadic double-step task. In the experimental condition, which required the use of corollary discharge information, control subjects showed a pronounced positivity over the parietal cortex starting about 150 ms after first saccade onset, reflecting the updating process. In the patients, parietal processing related to updating was altered. Three patients showed evidence of reduced updating event-related potential effects, consistent with a unilateral deficit in using corollary discharge information. In two patients, the event-related potential topography differed significantly from the topography pattern observed in controls. Thalamic damage affects updating-related processing, presumably due to insufficient transfer of saccade-related information to parietal areas. This study thus provides further evidence for thalamic involvement in relaying corollary discharge information related to saccadic eye movements. Our data suggest that integration of corollary discharge and motor information occurs directly before the second saccade in a double-step task.
The subthalamic nucleus (STN) is traditionally thought of as part of a system involved in motor control but recent evidence suggests that it may also play a role in other psychological processes. Here we examined the effects of STN lesions on two measures of impulsivity and found that STN lesions increased 'impulsive action' (produced behavioral disinhibition), as measured by performance on a differential reinforcement of low rates of responding task, but decreased 'impulsive choice' (impulsive decision making), as measured by a delay discounting task. In addition, amphetamine and food restriction increased 'impulsive action' and decreased 'impulsive choice' to a greater extent in STN-lesioned animals than in sham controls. We speculate that these apparently discrepant effects may be because STN lesions enhance the incentive salience assigned to rewards. These findings suggest that the STN may serve as a novel target for the treatment of psychological disorders characterized by deficits in behavioral control, such as drug addiction and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder.
Degeneration of axotomized GABAergic septohippocampal neurones has been shown to be enhanced in ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF)-deficient mice following fimbria-fornix transection (FFT), indicating a neuroprotective function of endogenous CNTF. Paradoxically, however, the cholinergic population of septohippocampal neurones was more resistant to axotomy in these mutants. As leukaemia inhibitory factor (LIF) has been identified as a potential neuroprotective factor for the cholinergic medial septum (MS) neurones, FFT-induced responses were compared in CNTF(-/-), LIF(-/-) and CNTF/LIF double knockout mice. In CNTF(-/-) mice, FFT-induced cholinergic degeneration was confirmed to be attenuated as compared with wildtype mice. The expression of both LIF and LIF receptor beta was increased in the MS providing a possible explanation for the enhanced neuronal resistance to FFT in these animals. However, ablation of the LIF gene also produced paradoxical effects; following FFT in LIF(-/-) mice no loss of GABAergic or cholinergic MS neurones was detectable during the first postlesional week, suggesting that other efficient neuroprotective mechanisms are activated in these animals. In fact, enhanced activation of astrocytes, a source of neurotrophic proteins, was indicated by increased up-regulation of glial fibrillary acidic protein and vimentin expression. In addition, mRNA levels for neurotrophin signalling components (e.g. nerve growth factor, p75(NTR)) were differentially regulated. The positive effect on axotomized cholinergic neurones seen in CNTF(-/-) and LIF(-/-) mice as well as the increased up-regulation of astrogliose markers was abolished in CNTF/LIF double knockout animals. Our results indicate that endogenous CNTF and LIF are involved in the regulation of neuronal survival following central nervous system lesion and are integrated into a network of neurotrophic signals that mutually influence their expression and function.
We assessed inbred, outbred and hybrid mouse strains for susceptibility to seizures and neurodegeneration induced by systemic administration of kainic acid (KA). Each strain showed a unique pattern of susceptibility to seizures as assessed by the dose necessary to induce continuous tonic clonic seizures, progression through six seizure levels, the number of mice that failed to satisfy seizure criteria, and seizure-induced mortality. In general, the C57BL/6, ICR, FVB/N, and BALB/c strains were resistant to seizures while the C57BL/10, DBA/2 J, and F1 C57BL/6*CBA/J strains were vulnerable. Neuronal cell death was quantified in four subfields of the hippocampus: CA3, the hilus of the dentate gyrus, CA1, and the dentate granule cell layer. Neurodegeneration was also semiquantitatively assessed in other brain regions including the neocortex, striatum, thalamus, hypothalamus and amygdala. Although there was variability in the extent of cell death within strains, there were significant differences in the amount of hippocampal cell death between strains and also different patterns of neurodegeneration in affected brain areas. In general, the C57BL/6, C57BL/10, and F1 C57BL/6*CBA/J strains were resistant to neurodegeneration while the FVB/N, ICR and DBA/2 J strains were vulnerable. The BALB/c strain was unique in that neurodegeneration was confined to the hippocampus. Consistent with previous findings, the resistant neurodegeneration phenotype was dominant in an F1 cross of resistant and vulnerable inbred strains. Our results, using a large number of mouse strains, definitively demonstrate that a mouse strain's seizure phenotype is not related to its neurodegeneration phenotype.
Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) is an important retinal neurotransmitter. We studied the expression of GABA, glutamate decarboxylase 65 (GAD65) and GAD67 by immunocytochemistry and Western blot, in the retinas of control and dark-reared C57BL/6J black mice. This study asked three questions. First, is visual input necessary for the normal expression of GABA, GAD65 and GAD67? Second, can the retina recover from the effects of dark-rearing if returned to a normal light-dark cycle? Third, does BDNF prevent the influence of dark-rearing on the expression of GABA and GAD? At postnatal day 10 (P10), before eye opening, GABA immunoreactivity was present in the ganglion cell layer (GCL), in the innermost rows of the inner nuclear layer (INL) and throughout the inner plexiform layer (IPL) of control and dark-reared retinas. In P30 control retinas, GABA immunoreactivity showed similar patterns to those at P10. However, in P30 dark-reared retinas, the density of GABA-immunoreactive cells was lower in both the INL and GCL than in control retinas. In addition, visual deprivation retarded GABA immunoreactivity in the IPL. Western blot analysis showed corresponding differences in the levels of GAD65 but not of GAD67 expression between control and dark-rearing conditions. In our study, dark-rearing effects were reversed when the mice were put in normal cyclic light-dark conditions for 2 weeks. Moreover, dark-reared retinas treated with BDNF showed normal expression of both GABA and GAD65. Our data indicate that normal expression of GABA and GAD65 is dependent on visual input. Furthermore, the data suggest that BDNF controls this dependence.
PIP3EA (2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)piperazin-1-yl-methyl]imidazo[1,2-a]pyridine) and PD-168077 (N-[4-2-cyanophenylpiperazin-1-ylmethyl]-3-methylbenzamide maleate), two selective dopamine D4 agonists, administered systemically, intracerebroventricularly or into the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus induce penile erection in male Sprague-Dawley rats. A U-inverted dose-response curve was found with either compound when given subcutaneously (1-100 microg/kg) or intracerebroventricularly (0.1-20 microg/rat), but not into the paraventricular nucleus (10-200 ng/rat). The pro-erectile effect of PIP3EA and of PD-168077 occurs concomitantly with an increased nitric oxide (NO) production in the paraventricular nucleus, as measured by the increased concentration of nitrites and nitrates found in the dialysate obtained from the paraventricular nucleus by intracerebral microdialysis. These effects of PIP3EA and PD-168077 were reduced by L-745,870 (3-[4-(4-chlorophenyl)piperazin-1-ylmethyl]-1H-pyrrolo[2,3-b]pyridine trihydrochloride), a selective dopamine D4 receptors antagonist, by omega-conotoxin, a blocker of voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels of the N-type, by S-methyl-thiocitrulline, a neuronal nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, and by d(CH2)5Tyr(Me)2-Orn8-vasotocin, an oxytocin receptor antagonist, given into the lateral ventricles, but not into the paraventricular nucleus. Comparison of the dose-response curves of PIP3EA and PD-168077 revealed that PIP3EA is as potent as PD-168077 when given into the paraventricular nucleus, but more potent when given systemically. However, both compounds are less efficacious (e.g. induce a lower number of penile erection episodes) than apomorphine, a classical mixed dopamine receptor agonist, irrespective of the route of administration. These results confirm previous findings showing that central D4 receptors mediate penile erection and show that dopamine D4 receptor agonists act in the paraventricular nucleus to facilitate penile erection by increasing central oxytocinergic neurotransmission.
In vivo application of viral vectors for gene transfer is a commonly used tool in anatomical and functional studies, as well as in development of neuroprotective and restorative strategies for therapy. Although the most common route of administration is via direct injection into the brain parenchyma in adult animals, a number of short-term studies have been performed in the developing central nervous system. Here we investigated the long-term transgene expression following in utero delivery of a retroviral vector encoding for the green fluorescent protein (GFP) marker gene at embryonic days 14.5-17.5 using an ultrasound-guided injection system. Intraparenchymal injections of the ganglionic eminence were compared with vector delivery to the intracerebroventricular space. Injections into the ganglionic eminences resulted in a predominantly unilateral transduction localized to the forebrain, giving rise to GFP-positive (GFP+) neurons and astrocytes in the striatum, olfactory bulb, cortex and hippocampus. When the vector was injected into the lateral ventricle, on the other hand, widespread expression of GFP was seen throughout the brain. The total number of GFP+ cells in the striatum was estimated to be between 20,000 and 50,000 cells using a computerized stereological quantification tool. Phenotypic characterization of these transduced cells using confocal microscopical analysis showed that 64% were NeuN+ neurons, 14% APC+ oligodendrocytes and 15% glial cells labelled with GFAP, S100beta and Iba1, when the vector injection was performed at E14.5. Delivery into later embryos resulted in a reduction in neuronal profiles with a reciprocal increase in glial cells.
Endogenous cannabinoids (endocannabinoids) act as retrograde inhibitory messengers in various regions of the brain. We have recently reported that endocannabinoids mediate short-term retrograde suppression of excitatory synaptic transmission from the neocortex to medium spiny (MS) neurons, the major projection neurons from the striatum. However, it remains unclear whether endocannabinoids modulate inhibitory transmission in the striatum. Here we show that depolarization of MS neurons induces transient suppression of inhibition that is mediated by retrograde endocannabinoid signalling. By paired recording from a fast-spiking (FS) interneuron and an MS neuron, we demonstrated that FS-MS inhibitory synapses undergo endocannabinoid-mediated retrograde suppression. We verified that GABAergic inhibitory terminals immunopositive for parvalbumin (PV), a marker for FS interneurons, expressed CB1 receptors. These PV-CB1 double-positive terminals surrounded dopamine D1 receptor-positive and D2 receptor-positive MS neurons; these constitute direct and indirect pathways, respectively. These results suggest that endocannabinoid-mediated retrograde suppression of inhibition influences information flow along both direct and indirect pathways, depending on the activity of MS neurons.
In this study we address the problem of the repeatability of autonomic responses in the experimental setting. In healthy volunteers, we measured the heart rate (HR) response to pain anticipation and to pain elicited with galvanic stimulation. After evaluation of pain threshold (T), all subjects underwent the same experimental protocol, whereby a painful stimulus at 1.5T was delivered on the forehead following a warning, while the ECG was continuously recorded. The procedure was repeated three times across a three-week period. The parameters recorded included pain threshold, pain rating, HR response to pain anticipation and HR response to pain. We found a high correlation among the three sessions for all parameters, indicating that, as occurs for pain threshold and pain rating, individual differences in autonomic responses can be reliably reproduced as well, even though significant habituation develops.
The mechanisms of pain causation in fibromyalgia (FMS) and chronic shoulder/neck pain (SNP) are still debated. We wanted to compare muscle activity and pain development during and after low-grade mental stress in FMS and SNP patients. Twenty-three women with FMS, 29 women with chronic SNP and 35 healthy women performed a stressful task lasting 60 min followed by a 30 min recovery period. We recorded surface electromyography over the trapezius, neck, temporalis and frontalis muscles. Subjects reported their pain at the corresponding locations together with the development of fatigue and perceived tension. Significant differences between FMS and SNP groups were not observed either for muscular or subjective responses. SNP patients and controls responded with more pain in the trapezius and neck regions than in the forehead, in contrast to FMS patients who had a more generalized pain response. Development of pain, tension and fatigue was not related to muscle activity for any group. We conclude that FMS and SNP patients have similar pain and electromyographic responses. The results suggest that similar pathophysiological mechanisms are involved although the responses are more generalised in FMS than in SNP patients. Muscular activity did not explain the pain which developed during the stressful task for either group. Pain lasted longer during recovery in both FMS and SNP patients compared to healthy controls, possibly a result of disease-related sensitisation in pain pathways.

The schwannomas are benign tumors originating from Schwann cells which constitute the nerve sheath. The dorsal pigmented type of schwannomas is relatively rare (Goldstein in Am J Med Genet 86:62-65, 2004; Kurtkaya-Yapicier in Histol Histopathol 18(3):925-934, 2003). There are two distinct types of melanotic schwannoma: the sporadic melanotic schwannomas and the psammomatous melanotic schwannomas of Carney complex. We report a case of a patient harboring a right dorsal dumb-bell melanotic schwannoma and left adrenal mass. The patient underwent a surgical procedure for en bloc total removal of the mass by a posterior and anterior approach. Histopathological examination revealed the diagnosis of melanotic schwannoma. At present, we have no reliable marker of histopathological malignancy of melanotic schwannoma so the follow-up period ought to continue for a period of more than 5 years. As the total removal of the melanotic neurinomas is mandatory to prevent possible malignant transformation of the tumor recurrence or regrowth, we believe that the posterior and trans-thoracic approach are the most suitable one for the dorsal dumb-bell schwannoma.
Spinal arachnoiditis can rarely occur following irritation from foreign body substances, including certain oil based contrast agents used for myelography. We describe a patient with thoracic arachnoiditis, arachnoid cyst and syringomyelia, 30 years following a myelogram with Myodil. A 62-year-old female presented with chronic thoraco-lumbar back pain, a spastic paraparesis and sphincter disturbance. She had undergone a myelogram with Myodil, 30 years previously for investigation of back pain. A MRI scan revealed evidence of arachnoiditis, thoracic syringomyelia (T6-T8) and an anteriorly placed, extramedullary, arachnoid cyst at T10-T12, compressing the cord. At surgery, T7-T10 thoracic laminectomies were carried out and syringo- and cysto-subarachnoid shunts were inserted. At 12 months follow-up, the sphincter disturbance, lower limb weakness and mobility problems had almost resolved. Although, the use of oil based contrast agents such as Myodil has been discontinued, the present case illustrates some of the rare sequelae of its use, manifesting decades later. Aggressive surgical intervention produced symptomatic benefit.
Ipsilateral motor evoked potentials (MEPs) in spinal cord surgery intraoperative monitoring is not well studied. We show that ipsilateral MEPs have significantly larger amplitudes and were elicited with lower stimulation intensities than contralateral MEPs. The possible underlying mechanisms are discussed based on current knowledge of corticospinal pathways. Ipsilateral MEPs may provide additional information on the integrity of descending motor tracts during spinal surgery monitoring.
In recent years it has become increasingly clear that the metallothionein (MT) family of proteins is important in neurobiology. MT-I and MT-II are normally dramatically up-regulated by neuroinflammation. Results for MT-III are less clear. MTs could also be relevant in human neuropathology. In Alzheimer disease (AD), a major neurodegenerative disease, clear signs of inflammation and oxidative stress were detected associated with amyloid plaques. Furthermore, the number of cells expressing apoptotic markers was also significantly increased in these plaques. As expected, MT-I and MT-II immunostaining was dramatically increased in cells surrounding the plaques, consistent with astrocytosis and microgliosis, as well as the increased oxidative stress elicited by the amyloid deposits. MT-III, in contrast, remained essentially unaltered, which agrees with some but not all studies, of AD. In situ hybridization results in a transgenic mouse model of AD amyloid deposits, the Tg2576 mouse, which expresses human Abeta precursor protein harboring the Swedish K670N/M671L mutations, are in accordance with results in human brains. Overall, these and other studies strongly suggest specific roles for MT-I, MT-II, and MT-III in brain physiology.
Integrating audiovisual cues for simple events is affected when sources are separated in space and time. By contrast, audiovisual perception of speech appears resilient when either spatial or temporal disparities exist. We investigated whether speech perception is sensitive to the combination of spatial and temporal inconsistencies. Participants heard the bisyllable /aba/ while seeing a face produce the incongruent bisyllable /ava/. We tested the level of visual influence over auditory perception when the sound was asynchronous with respect to facial motion (from -360 to +360 ms) and emanated from five locations equidistant to the participant. Although an interaction was observed, it was not related to participants' perception of synchrony, nor did it indicate a linear relationship between the effect of spatial and temporal discrepancies. We conclude that either the complexity of the signal or the nature of the task reduces reliance on spatial and temporal contiguity for audiovisual speech perception.
Goal-directed behavior is characterized by flexible stimulus-action mappings. The lateral intraparietal area (area LIP) contains a representation of extra-personal space that is used to guide goal-directed behavior. To examine further how area LIP contributes to these flexible stimulus-action mappings, we recorded LIP activity while rhesus monkeys participated in two different cueing tasks. In the first task, the color of a central light indicated the location of a monkey's saccadic endpoint in the absence of any other visual stimuli. In the second task, the color of a central light indicated which of two visual targets was the saccadic goal. In both tasks, LIP activity was modulated by these non-spatial cues. These observations further suggest a role for area LIP in mediating endogenous associations that link stimuli with actions.
Adolescence is characterized by increased risk-taking and sensation-seeking, presumably brought about by developmental changes within reward-mediating brain circuits. A better understanding of the neural mechanisms underlying reward-seeking during adolescence can have critical implications for the development of strategies to enhance adolescent performance in potentially dangerous situations. Yet little research has investigated the influence of age on the modulation of behavior by incentives with neuroscience-based methods. A monetary reward antisaccade task (the RST) was used with 23 healthy adolescents and 30 healthy adults. Performance accuracy, latency and peak velocity of saccade responses (prosaccades and antisaccades) were analyzed. Performance accuracy across all groups was improved by incentives (obtain reward, avoid punishment) for both, prosaccades and antisaccades. However, modulation of antisaccade errors (direction errors) by incentives differed between groups: adolescents modulated saccade latency and peak velocity depending on contingencies, with incentives aligning their performance to that of adults; adults did not show a modulation by incentives. These findings suggest that incentives modulate a global measure of performance (percent direction errors) in adults and adolescents, and exert a more powerful influence on the control of incorrect motor responses in adolescents than in adults. These findings suggest that this task can be used in neuroimaging studies as a probe of the influence of incentives on cognitive control from a developmental perspective as well as in health and disease.
In the three experiments reported here, we systematically investigated when and/or how prior semantic information about a target-object would affect the programming and execution of grasping movements. A name-length association was first created during a practice phase while participants performed one of the three tasks: grasping, naming, or manual estimation of an object's length upon an auditory presentation of its name. In the subsequent test phase, in the majority of trials, these names correctly indicated the upcoming object for a grasping task or a control naming task (Experiment 1A and 1B), and a grasping task or a manual estimation of object length (Experiment 2). In both experiments, a name was occasionally incongruent or a neutral cue (a burst of white noise) was presented instead. Although in the grasping task, semantic cues (both congruent and incongruent) consistently facilitated movement-onset time (indicating a preparatory-set like effect), the impact of these cues on the formation of grasping aperture was less consistent or absent. The experiments also demonstrated that naming and perceptual estimation of object length were affected differently from grasping by the same semantic cues, with the congruent cues facilitating and the incongruent cues slowing down response onset. These findings reinforce and extend the proposal that the transformations of visual and semantic information for perceptually-driven tasks are quite different from the transformations of the same information for the programming and control of object-directed action.
The dorsal spinocerebellar tract (DSCT) provides a major mossy fiber input to the spinocerebellum, which plays a significant role in the control of posture and locomotion. Recent work from our laboratory has provided evidence that DSCT neurons encode a global representation of hindlimb mechanics during passive limb movements. The framework that most successfully accounts for passive DSCT behavior is kinematics-based having the coordinates of the limb axis, limb-axis length and orientation. Here we examined the responses of DSCT neurons in decerebrate cats as they walked on a moving treadmill and compared them with the responses passive step-like movements of the hindlimb produced manually. We found that DSCT responses to active locomotion were quantitatively different from the responses to kinematically similar passive limb movements on the treadmill. The differences could not be simply accounted for by the difference in limb-axis kinematics in the two conditions, nor could they be accounted for by new or different response components. Instead, differences could be attributed to an increased relative prominence of specific response components occurring during the stance phase of active stepping, which may reflect a difference in the behavior of the sensory receptors and/or of the DSCT circuitry during active stepping. We propose from these results that DSCT neurons encode two global aspects of limb mechanics that are also important in controlling locomotion at the spinal level, namely the orientation angle of the limb axis and limb loading. Although limb-axis length seemed to be an independent predictor of DSCT activity during passive limb movements, we argue that it is not independent of limb loading, which is likely to be proportional to limb length under passive conditions.
In the Brentano version of the Mller-Lyer illusion one part looks longer and the other looks shorter than it really is. We asked participants to make saccadic eye movements along these parts of the figure and between positions on the figure and a position outside the illusion. By showing that saccades from outside the figure are not influenced by the illusion, we demonstrate that the reason that saccades along the figure are influenced is that the incorrectly judged length is used to plan the amplitude of the saccade. This finding contradicts several current views on the use of visual information for action. We conclude that actions are influenced by visual illusions, but that such influences are only apparent if the action is guided by the attribute that is fooled by the illusion.
Traumatic spinal cord injury (SCI) results not only in motor impairment, but also in chronic central neuropathic pain, which often is refractory to conventional treatment approaches. Upregulated expression of sodium channel Nav1.3 has been observed within the spinal dorsal horn neurons after SCI, and appears to contribute to neuronal hyperresponsiveness and pain-related behaviors. In this study we characterized the changes in sodium current properties within dorsal horn neurons after contusive SCI. Four weeks after adult male Sprague-Dawley rats underwent T9 spinal cord contusion injury, when behavioral nociceptive thresholds were decreased to both mechanical and thermal stimuli, whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were performed on acutely dissociated lumbar dorsal horn neurons. The cells demonstrated characteristic fast-activating and fast-inactivating sodium currents. SCI led to a shift of the steady-state activation and inactivation of the sodium current towards more depolarized potentials. The shifted steady-state inactivation shows similarities to that obtained from axotomized dorsal root ganglions, which were shown to upregulate Nav1.3. Small slow depolarizations below action potential threshold produced ramp currents, which were markedly enhanced by SCI (from 182 +/- 41 to 338 +/- 55 pA). The density of the noninactivating persistent sodium current was also significantly enhanced in neurons from SCI animals (from 17.4 +/- 3.2 to 27.7 +/- 4.4 pA/pF at 50-70 ms of depolarization). The increased persistent sodium current and ramp current, which are consistent with upregulation of Nav1.3 within dorsal horn neurons, suggest a basis for the hyperresponsiveness of these neurons following SCI.
Neurophysiological and neuroimaging work has uncovered modulatory influence of long-range lateral connections from outside of the classical receptive field on neuronal and behavioral responses to localized targets. We report two psychophysical experiments investigating visual detection of real and apparent motion in central vision with and without remote and immediate stationary references. At a particular temporal frequency (0.1-12.8 Hz), participants adjusted the amplitude of either triangle-wave (real) or square-wave (stroboscopic/apparent) oscillatory motion of a vertical bar along a straight, horizontal trajectory for the first impression of the target's stationarity/nonstationarity (the displacement threshold). In the relative motion conditions, a stationary reference bar was positioned 23' apart from the target; in the absolute motion conditions, the bar was absent. The thresholds were measured with a dimly-lit uniform background (13 x 13 degrees ) and either in the darkness (experiment 1) or moving-background conditions (experiment 2). For both real and apparent motion, varying the observation conditions yields three sensitivity levels: irrespective of the background, the lowest thresholds occur in the presence of an immediate reference, followed by the moderately increased thresholds obtained with a dimly-lit background alone. The equally high thresholds occur in the darkness and moving-background conditions without any visible stationary references. The results suggest that the spatial frames of reference for visual motion detection are hierarchically nested, yet independent. The findings provide support for the view that absolute motion perception should be considered relative, extending neurophysiological evidence for the existence of long-range lateral connections across the visual field.
Accuracy of shifting movements between two notes was examined in nine cellists (intermediate-professional skill levels). Three pairs of notes separated by different distances were tested under the same movement rate. Finger position on the string was measured by a circuit. Angular velocities of the left upper arm and forearm were measured by two angular velocity sensors; thus elbow angular velocity during shifts was estimated. Results showed that with increased elbow velocity and shifting distance endpoint variability stayed constant. The force of gravity assisted elbow extension during shifts toward higher pitched notes compared to flexion towards lower pitched notes, but faster movement velocity did not result in increased landing variability. Performance for note E on the A string was found to be less variable than other notes, suggesting that physical cue from the cello body geometry was used as a landmark for finger position. Cutaneous feedback from the thumb when hitting the body-neck junction enabled faster elbow extension velocity compared to shifts towards other notes. Cellists who showed higher performance accuracy also showed higher perceptual ability and performance proficiency. These results suggest that long-term over-training of fast and accurate movements enables musicians to maintain accuracy and variability across different movement distances and velocities. Higher perceptual ability and performance proficiency are correlated with increased accuracy but not lower variability, indicating although perceptual ability and performance proficiency are important for pitch accuracy, movement variability is still constrained by the capacity of the motor system, which is highly fine-tuned and different than non-musicians.
A major feature of aging is a reduction in muscle strength from sarcopenia, the loss of muscle mass. Sarcopenia impairs physical ability, reduces quality of life and increases the risk of fall and injury. Since aging is a process of stochastic decline, there may be many factors that impinge on the progression of sarcopenia. Possible factors that may promote muscle decline are contraction-related injury and oxidative stress. However, relatively little is understood about the cellular pathways affecting muscle aging, in part because lifespan studies are difficult to conduct in species with large muscles, such as rodents and primates. For this reason, shorter-lived invertebrate models of aging may be more useful for unraveling causes of sarcopenia and functional declines during aging. Recent studies have examined both physiological and genetic factors that affect aging-related declines in Caenorhabditis elegans nematodes. In C. elegans, aging leads to significant functional declines that correlate with muscle deterioration, similar to those documented for longer-lived vertebrates. This article will examine the current research into aging-related functional declines in this species, focusing on recent studies of locomotory and feeding decline during aging in the nematode, C. elegans.
Angiocidin, a protein over-expressed in many different solid tumors and tumor capillary endothelial cells inhibits angiogenesis and tumor growth [Zhou, J., et al., 2004. Cloning and characterization of angiocidin, a tumor cell binding protein for thrombospondin-1. J Cell Biochem. 92, 125-146]. Since several splice variants of angiocidin have distinct biochemical functions in membrane transport and protein degradation, we sought to evaluate the function of endogenously expressed angiocidin in human umbilical vein endothelial (HUVE) cells using siRNA. We observed a 90% reduction of the target mRNA levels after 24 h. Endogenous angiocidin protein expression was reduced by 80% after three days, as evaluated by Western blot analysis. We also found that anti-angiocidin siRNA down-regulated 90% of the protein expression of matrix metalloproteinase 2 (MMP-2) and 50% of its gelatinolytic activity. Reduction of endogenous angiocidin completely inhibited endothelial cord formation on Matrigel. Cells expressing low levels of angiocidin grew more slowly, were less invasive and less adhesive than control cells. Consistent with the reported function of one of the angiocidin analogues S5a, we found that the expression of polyubiquitinated proteins was higher in anti-angiocidin siRNA-treated cells as compared to normal and control siRNA-treated cells. These results suggest that endogenous angiocidin and its homologues promote endothelial cell invasion, adhesion, and angiogenesis through mechanisms involving polyubiquitin-dependent protein degradation and MMP-2 expression.
The Transient Receptor Potential Vanilloid 1 (TRPV1R) is a ligand-gated, non-selective cation channel expressed predominantly by sensory neurons. TRPV1Rs respond to a variety of noxious stimuli including capsaicin, intense heat and acid. These factors, combined with behavioral studies, show that TRPV1Rs are involved in nociception. The aim of our study was to determine whether TRPV1Rs play a role in the development and maintenance of inflammation and mechanical hyperalgesia by studying the development of unilateral joint inflammation in TRPV1R-/- mice. Knee joints of TRPV1R-/- or wild-type (WT) mice were injected with FCA (200 microg) under temporary anesthesia, and the resulting inflammation and hyperalgesia measured for 35 days. Histological analysis was performed on joints at the end of the study. TRPV1R-/- mice developed mild joint swelling which was significantly less than that obtained in WT mice (P &lt; 0.05, Mann-Whitney). The ratio of the weight distribution between the hind limbs in TRPV1R-/- mice was also significantly less than in WT mice (P &lt; 0.05, Mann-Whitney). Neither swelling nor hypersensitivity was completely absent in the knockout mice, indicating either that other mechanisms are involved or that a compensatory mechanism operates in TRPV1R-/- mice. These results suggest that TRPV1 receptors are important for the development of joint inflammation and the associated mechanical hypersensitivity observed in this model.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) often produces cognitive impairments by primary or secondary neuronal loss. Stem cells are a potential tool to treat TBI. However, most previous studies using rodent stem or progenitor cells failed to correlate cell grafting and cognitive improvement. Furthermore, the efficacy of fetal human neural stem cells (hNSCs) for ameliorating TBI cognitive dysfunction is undetermined. This study therefore characterized phenotypic differentiation, neurotrophic factor expression and release and functional outcome of grafting hNSCs into TBI rat brains. Adult Sprague-Dawley rats underwent a moderate parasagittal fluid percussion TBI followed by ipsilateral hippocampal transplantation of hNSCs or vehicle 1 day post-injury. Prior to grafting, hNSCs were treated in vitro for 7 days with our previously developed priming procedure. Significant spatial learning and memory improvements were detected by the Morris water maze (MWM) test in rats 10 days after receiving hNSC grafts. Morphological analyses revealed that hNSCs survived and differentiated mainly into neurons in the injured hippocampus at 2 weeks after grafting. Furthermore, hNSCs expressed and released glial-cell-line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) in vitro and when grafted in vivo, as detected by RT-PCR, immunostaining, microdialysis and ELISA. This is the first direct demonstration of the release of a neurotrophic factor in conjunction with stem cell grafting. In conclusion, human fetal neural stem cell grafts improved cognitive function of rats with acute TBI. Grafted cells survived and differentiated into neurons and expressed and released GNDF in vivo, which may help protect host cells from secondary damage and aid host regeneration.
Transplantation of neural stem cells (NSCs) in the injured spinal cord has been shown to improve functional outcome; however, recent evidence has demonstrated forelimb allodynia following transplantation of embryonic NSCs. The aim of this study was to investigate whether transplantation of murine C17.2 NSCs alone or transfected with glial-derived neurotrophic factor (C17.2/GDNF) would induce allodynia in transplanted spinal cord-injured animals. One week after a T8-level spinal cord injury (SCI), C17.2, C17.2/GDNF or normal saline was injected at the injury site. Locomotor function and sensory recovery to thermal and mechanical stimuli were then measured. Spinal cords were processed immunohistochemically at the injury/transplantation site for characterization of NSC survival and differentiation; and at the cervicothoracic level for calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), a neuropeptide expressed in dorsal horn nocioceptive neurons, and growth-associated protein-43 (GAP43), a marker of neuronal sprouting. Locomotor function was not significantly improved following NSC transplantation at any time (P &gt;0.05). Significant forelimb thermal and mechanical allodynia were observed following transplantation with both NSC populations (P &lt;0.05). The C17.2 and C17.2/GDNF NSCs survived and differentiated into a predominately astrocytic population. Calcitonin gene-related peptide and GAP43 immunoreactivity significantly increased and co-localized in cervicothoracic dorsal horn laminae I-III following C17.2 and C17.2/GDNF transplantation. This study demonstrated that murine C17.2 NSCs differentiated primarily into astrocytes when transplanted into the injured spinal cord, and resulted in thermal and mechanical forelimb allodynia. Sprouting of nocioceptive afferents occurred rostral to the injury/transplantation site only in allodynic animals, suggesting a principal role in this aberrant pain state. Further, a difference in the degree of allodynia was noted between C17.2- and C17.2/GDNF transplant-treated groups; this difference correlated with the level of CGRP/GAP43 immunoreactivity and sprouting observed in the cervicothoracic dorsal horns. Both allodynia- and CGRP/GAP43-positive afferent sprouting were less in the C17.2/GDNF group compared to the C17.2 group, suggesting a possible protective or analgesic effect of GDNF on post-injury neuropathic pain.
We used a perturb-and-measure approach, by combining transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) and positron emission tomography (PET), to examine changes in the primary motor area (M1) and its effective connectivity in stroke patients with chronic motor deficits (&gt;1-year post-stroke) who underwent 3 weeks of constraint-induced movement therapy. During the 3-week period, 7 patients spent 4 h per day performing shaping exercises with the affected arm under our supervision for 14 days and wore a mitt on the unaffected arm at home in situations where safety was not compromised. Anatomical magnetic resonance imaging confirmed that all patients had lesions that encompassed the white matter; no patient had damage in the hand representation of M1. Improvements on various motor tests were observed immediately after therapy and 1 month afterwards. During the TMS/PET sessions, we applied trains of subthreshold 10-Hz repetitive TMS over the hand representation of the ipsilesional and contralesional M1s and varied the number of TMS trains delivered during each scan. The results demonstrate changes in the local response of TMS in the ipsilesional and contralesional M1, changes in the strength of interhemispheric connectivity between M1s, and changes in the effective connectivity of the ipsilesional and contralesional M1s with the non-primary motor areas, the basal ganglia, and the motor nuclei of the thalamus.
The mechanisms of injured brain that establish poststroke seizures and epilepsy are not well understood, largely because animal modeling of these phenomena has had limited development. We studied the electrobehavioral properties of 2.5-month-old male Long-Evans rats by video-electroencephalogram (EEG) recordings during the 6 months following sham operation or lesioning by transient unilateral middle cerebral artery (MCA) and common carotid artery (CCA) occlusion (MCA/CCAO). The main findings of this study were: (1) control animals demonstrated interictal focal or restricted bilateral 7-8 Hz spike-wave discharges (SWDs) lasting 1-2 s without behavioral change and ictal generalized 7-8 Hz SWDs (absence seizures), which were prolonged, frequent, and associated with motor arrest of the animal; (2) lesioned animals demonstrated cortical infarction associated with interictal SWDs similar to controls, except that focal discharges were more numerous relative to bilateral discharges, and ictal SWDs, which were of shorter duration and less frequent than those of controls; (3) lesioned animals demonstrated decreased hemispheric and regional spectral power at approximately 7 and 15 Hz compared with controls, directly related to the reduced occurrence of ictal SWDs; and (4) lesioning did not independently generate either focal or generalized epileptic seizures. These studies demonstrate distinct electrobehavioral properties of Long-Evans rats lesioned by MCA/CCAO as juveniles and monitored by video-EEG recordings during young adulthood but fail to provide evidence of poststroke seizures or epilepsy.
Neural stem and progenitor cells hold the promise to be used in cell-based therapies to treat both acute and degenerative neurological diseases. To date, most research has been focused on the use of in vitro propagated stem cells used as a source of cells in cell replacement therapies. However, mobilization of endogenous neural stem cells to generate a specific differentiated cell type offers an attractive alternative. In this study, we investigate the possibility to direct the formation of specific cells from the endogenous stem and progenitor cells residing in the subventricular region of the postnatal brain. With the aim to induce postnatal generation of striatal neurons, we ectopically expressed Islet-1, a LIM homeodomain transcription factor expressed by striatal progenitors during development, in cells of the subventricular zone (SVZ) of neonatal and adult rats. Ectopic expression of Islet-1 in the neonatal, but not adult, SVZ resulted in the appearance of a population of cells in the striatum. These cells were primarily located in the ventrolateral area of the striatum where they differentiate into Ng2 expressing cells. However, no neurogenesis was observed in the striatum, nor was ectopic striatal differentiation observed in any other area of the brain after retroviral expression of Islet-1 in the SVZ. Thus, although ectopic expression of Islet-1 is sufficient to direct the migration of cells into the striatum in neonatal animals, it does not specify a striatal projection neuron phenotype in cells generated from the SVZ after birth.
Some studies have found that unilateral cerebral damage produces significant deficits in the ipsilesional, &quot;less-affected&quot;, body side. Other studies have found that such damage results in a paradoxical hyperfunctionality of the ipsilesional body side and a facilitation of learning-induced neuroplastic changes in the contralesional motor cortex. The purpose of this study was to determine whether these effects co-exist and/or vary with lesion severity. After small or large unilateral ischemic lesions of the sensorimotor cortex (SMC) or sham operations, adult male rats were trained for 20 days to acquire a motor task, skilled reaching for food, for the first time with the ipsilesional forelimb. Analyses of movement patterns indicated lesion-size-dependent ipsilesional abnormalities in grasping, retrieving and releasing food pellets. Despite these impairments, success rates were significantly increased and aiming errors reduced in lesion groups compared with sham operates. Performance was best in rats with small lesions that had more minor ipsilesional impairments. In the motor cortex contralateral to the lesion and trained limb, there were significant increases in the density of dendrites immunoreactive for microtubule-associated protein-2 (MAP2) and of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit 1 (NMDAR1) immunoreactivity compared with sham operates. These effects were correlated with reaching performance. Therefore, enhanced motor skill learning in the &quot;less-affected&quot; forelimb and contralesional neuroplastic changes are muted after larger lesions and co-exist with ipsilesional impairments. These effects may be related to a denervation-induced neural restructuring of the contralesional cortex that both disrupts pre-existing motor engrams and facilitates the establishment of new ones.
We here study the expression patterns of the cell adhesion molecules nectin-1, nectin-3, N-cadherin, and neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) in motoneurons after sciatic nerve transection (SNT). Nectins are a newly discovered family of adhesion molecules that colocalize with N-cadherin in synapses and are expressed in axons during development. By in situ hybridization (ISH), we found nectin-3, N-cadherin, and NCAM mRNA in uninjured motoneurons. In uninjured animals, nectin-3 mRNA was present in a few vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT)-positive cells of small motoneuron size in lamina IX of the spinal cord. SNT induced a significant increase of nectin-1, nectin-3, and NCAM mRNA, but the signal for N-cadherin mRNA was not affected. After SNT, signal for nectin-3 mRNA appeared over most motoneurons. We next investigated the presence of N-cadherin and nectin protein in synapses on spinal motoneurons by immunohistochemistry. Only N-cadherin immunoreactivity was seen in close relation to synaptophysin staining, while nectin-1 and nectin-3 immunoreactivity did not display such proximity. SNT resulted in decreased immunoreactivity for N-cadherin around the motoneuron soma, while nectin-1 and nectin-3 immunoreactivity remained unchanged. In the peripheral sciatic nerve, nectin-3 immunoreactivity was observed both in controls and following injury and nectin-3 colocalized with both neurofilament and the Schwann cell marker S100. In addition, an increased ISH signal for nectin-3 mRNA could be seen over the proximal stump of the sciatic nerve after SNT. We conclude that motoneuron injury induces complex changes in the spatiotemporal expression pattern of the investigated cell adhesion molecules.
Hindlimb unloading (HU) induces neuromuscular disturbances in slow postural muscles such as the soleus. Among these perturbations, a reorganization of soleus motor units and decreases in peripheral afferent feedback have been reported and could change the alpha-motoneuron excitability. The purpose of this study was, therefore, to examine the distribution of soleus motoneuron soma sizes and the neurographic analogue of the H-reflex (NAH) induced by the soleus afferent excitation after 14 HU days. With this aim in view, we have elaborated a new electrophysiological method, discounting antidromic motor potentials, in order to record a neurographic analogue of the H-reflex, induced by soleus nerve stimulation at the L5 ventral root level instead of the electromyographic H-reflex response. Our results showed that, from a morphological point of view, the distribution of motoneuron soma sizes was modified and was shifted towards smaller sizes after HU (median 1065 microm2) in comparison with the control group (median 1314 microm2). The electrophysiological part of this study showed that thresholds and the maximal intensity of the NAH were respectively reduced by 30.5% and 27% after HU. No significant difference was obtained for the latency and the maximal amplitude of the NAH. Modifications of motoneuron excitability could be involved in the reflex adaptations observed after HU. However, changes in the presynaptic inhibition levels after HU cannot be discounted.
Stress has long been implicated as a major cause of depression in humans and more recently has been suggested to decrease neurogenesis, which may be a contributing factor to depression development. Animal models of stress may be a relevant tool for investigating links between neurogenesis and depression. This has largely been investigated using chronic stress models in rodents. However, stress may be chronic or experienced in discrete episodes. Acute stress may be particularly relevant to humans experiencing unexpected societal pressures and obligations. Our study examined the effect of acute stress on the proliferative phase of adult hippocampal neurogenesis. Young adult rats were exposed for 20 min to the predator odor TMT, a natural stressor for rodents with significant ethological relevance. BrdU IP injections were concurrent with TMT exposure to assess proliferation effects with animal sacrifice 2 h after BrdU injection. Robust stress responses were evident following TMT exposure as detected by elevated corticosterone (CORT) levels and a significant reduction in exploratory behavior. Exposure to TMT did not alter the number of BrdU-positive cells in the hippocampus despite physiological and behavioral evidence of stress. CORT level elevation has long been accepted as a marker of stress; however, this study indicates that increases in CORT level may not always correlate with diminished neurogenic proliferation. This study further suggests that various stressors may not operate through the same biological substrates resulting in a differential ability to modulate neurogenesis.
Methylphenidate (MPH) is the most commonly used and best-studied stimulant medication for attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder. However, its short duration of action usually results in a requirement to administer multiple daily doses in order to achieve optimal clinical benefit. Although a wax-matrix-based SR formulation of MPH has been available since the 1990s, it was not well accepted into clinical practice. The variable absorption profile and lack of an immediate-release component results in a slower onset of action compared with immediate-release MPH. Hence, there was a need to develop alternative longer-lasting preparations of MPH that were as efficacious as IR MPH, but which also addressed the problems inherent in multiple daily dosing. An osmotic, controlled-release (OROS) formulation of MPH HCl has been developed over the past 10 years for once-daily administration. OROS MPH has been widely accepted by clinicians and is now the most widely prescribed MPH product in North America. Clinical trials have shown OROS MPH to have a continued action over a 12-h period, to be superior to placebo and to be as effective as immediate-release MPH dosed three times daily, in reducing symptoms of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder, with similar incidence of side effects. There have been a smaller number of trials comparing OROS MPH with non-stimulant treatments, such as atomoxetine.
The 2006 British Association for Psychopharmacology Summer Meeting was held in Oxford, UK. The British Association for Psychopharmacology is now one of the largest national psychopharmacology associations in the world with over 1000 members, and 550 national and international delegates attended the summer meeting. This meeting provides an annual forum for scientists and clinical investigators from academia and the pharmaceutical industry to share information on many aspects of the psychopharmacology of psychiatric illness. In total, 292 abstracts were accepted for presentation at the meeting. These were divided into 57 oral and 235 poster presentations. Research areas covered all aspects of psychopharmacology from basic research to pharmaceutical development and clinical application. This report highlights selected presentations from the meeting, focusing on rapid tryptophan depletion, which is a dietary manipulation that is used to study central serotonin function and putative animal models of depression and schizophrenia.
As knowledge of the human genome grows, there will be a direct impact on the management of specific diseases. Within gastroenterology and hepatology, there has been a change in the understanding of how variations or mutations in genes involved in drug metabolism or disease pathophysiology affect response to therapy. This review discusses the application of clinical pharmacogenetics to the following diseases and disorders: inflammatory bowel disease, Helicobacter pylori infections, gastroesophageal reflux disease, irritable bowel syndrome, functional dyspepsia, liver transplantation and colon cancer. Although only a few genotyping tests are regularly used in clinical practice, it is anticipated that studies will propel the routine use of many of the tests described in this review, in the future.
The pathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD) include abnormal intra- and extraneuronal tau and amyloid accumulation, respectively, accompanied by gliosis, oxidative stress and neuron loss. The discovery of mutations within the tau gene itself that cause clinical dementia (i.e., fronto-temporal dementia with Parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17 [FTDP17]) demonstrated that disruption of normal tau function independent of amyloidogenesis was sufficient to cause neuronal loss and clinical dementia. These studies demonstrate the need for therapeutics that either decrease the total pool of tau or selectively reduce aberrant forms of tau (i.e., hyperphosphorylated, misfolded etc.). To this point, therapeutic development for tauopathies, including AD, have primarily focused on either the phosphorylation of tau, as it is a downstream target for many kinases and signalling cascades, or inhibition of tau aggregation. Recent developments, however, suggest that pharmacological targeting of other mechanisms may hold therapeutic promise for the treatment of tauopathies.
Following the revised International Headache Society criteria, a group of short-lasting headaches associated with autonomic symptoms, the so called trigeminal autonomic cephalgias, were newly recognized. The trigeminal autonomic cephalgias include cluster headache, paroxysmal hemicranias and a syndrome involving short-lasting unilateral neuralform cephalgias with conjunctival injection and tearing (SUNCT) syndrome. In all of these syndromes, the half-sided head pain and cranial autonomic symptoms are prominent. All of the trigeminal autonomic cephalgias differ in duration, frequency and rhythmicity of the attacks, the intensity of pain and autonomic symptoms, as well as treatment options. This review gives a brief clinical description of the headache disorders and recent pathophysiological findings, as well as an overview of the treatment of cluster headache, paroxysmal hemicranias and SUNCT syndrome.
Pharmacotherapy designed to alleviate the symptoms of Parkinson's disease is focused on the stimulation of striatal dopamine receptors. The ideal pharmacological treatment would involve continuous dopaminergic stimulation. Currently, the most effective pharmacotherapy available is levodopa delivered orally; however, its short plasma half-life in combination with erratic gastric emptying and intestinal absorption makes dopaminergic stimulation pulsatile. Motor fluctuations and dyskinesias develop with time as a consequence and can become disabling. A gel formulation of levodopa/carbidopa has been developed for enteral (duodenal or jejunal) infusion via a portable pump. The infusion provides smooth plasma levodopa levels, more continuous dopaminergic stimulation and effective treatment of motor complications.
Recent evidence indicates that microglial cells may not derive from blood circulating mature monocytes as they express features of myeloid progenitors. Here, we observed that a subpopulation of microglial cells expressed CD34 and B220 antigens during brain development. We thus hypothesized that microglia, or a subset of microglial cells, originate from blood circulating CD34+/B220+ myeloid progenitors, which could target the brain under developmental or neuroinflammatory conditions. Using experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) as a model of chronic neuroinflammation, we found that a discrete population of CD34+/B220+ cells expands in both blood and brain of diseased animals. In EAE mice, intravenous transfer experiments showed that macrophage-colony stimulating factor (M-CSF) -expanded CD34+ myeloid progenitors target the inflamed central nervous system (CNS) while keeping their immature phenotype. Based on these results, we then assessed whether CD34+/B220+ cells display in vitro differentiation potential toward microglia. For this purpose, CD34+/B220+ cells were sorted from M-CSF-stimulated bone marrow (BM) cultures and exposed to a glial cell conditioned medium. Under these experimental conditions, CD34+/B220+ cells were able to differentiate into microglial-like cells showing the morphological and phenotypic features of native microglia. Overall, our data suggest that under developmental or neuroinflammatory conditions, a subpopulation of microglial cells derive from CNS-invading CD34+/B220+ myeloid progenitors.
The classical view postulates that neuropeptide precursors in neurons are processed into mature neuropeptides in the somatic trans-Golgi network (TGN) and in secretory vesicles during axonal transport. Here we show that prodynorphin (PDYN), precursor to dynorphin opioid peptides, is predominantly located in axon terminals and dendrites in hippocampal and striatal neurons. The molar content of unprocessed PDYN was much greater than that of dynorphin peptides in axon terminals of PDYN-containing neurons projecting to the CA3 region of the hippocampus and in the striatal projections to the ventral tegmental area. Electron microscopy showed coexistence of PDYN and dynorphins in the same axon terminals with occasional codistribution in individual dense core vesicles. Thus, the precursor protein is apparently stored at presynaptic sites. In comparison with the hippocampus and striatum, PDYN and dynorphins were more equally distributed between neuronal somata and processes in the amygdala and cerebral cortex, suggesting regional differences in the regulation of trafficking and processing of the precursor protein. Potassium-induced depolarization activated PDYN processing and secretion of opioid peptides in neuronal cultures and in a model cell line. Regulation of PDYN storage and processing at synapses by neuronal activity or extracellular stimuli may provide a local mechanism for regulation of synaptic transmission.

Recent field studies on the reproductive ecology of western diamond-backed rattlesnakes (Crotalus atrox) from populations in southern Arizona showed significant differences in the concentration of plasma sex steroids (testosterone, T; 5alpha-dihydrotestosterone, DHT; and 17beta-estradiol, E2) throughout the active season (March-October), and peak levels were coincident with the two mating periods (late summer and early spring). There is, however, no information on levels of sex steroids during winter. Similar to most snakes, hibernating individuals of C. atrox are typically inaccessible, but in southern Arizona, where environmental conditions are typically mild during winter, adult males frequently bask at or near the entrances of communal dens. Basking activity, therefore, offers a unique logistical opportunity to assess the complete annual profile of plasma sex steroid levels in males of a temperate reptile in nature. From November to February, we measured levels of plasma T, DHT, and E2 in adult male C. atrox that were located basking at communal dens. Additionally, cloacal, core body, and ambient air temperatures were obtained to investigate potential relationships between body temperatures and levels of sex steroids. Mean levels of T, DHT, and E2 were relatively high, and the concentration hierarchy was T&gt;DHT&gt;E2. Mean levels of T, DHT, and E2 showed no significant variation across the four months of sampling; however, E2 levels decreased progressively. In the annul cycle, sex steroid levels during winter were not basal when compared to values obtained during the active season. Mean cloacal temperatures of basking males were significantly higher than core body temperatures of non-basking males (inside dens) from November-December, and in February, which suggests that one function of winter basking is to elevate body temperatures. Steroid levels, nonetheless, were not significantly correlated with cloacal temperatures. We suggest that future field studies of male C. atrox should: (a) investigate sex steroid levels in non-basking individuals and (b) test whether elevated levels of sex steroids during winter facilitate the large increases that occur in early spring, which are coincident with the second mating season. Our findings on the reproductive biology of C. atrox and other viperids are discussed in the context of the associated-dissociated model of reproduction.
We have generated transgenic zebrafish that express green fluorescent protein (GFP) in glial cells driven by the zebrafish glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) regulatory elements. Transgenic lines Tg(gfap:GFP) were generated from three founders; the results presented here are from the mi2001 line. GFP expression was first visible in the living embryo at the tail bud-stage, then in the developing brain by the 5-somite-stage ( approximately 12 h post-fertilization, hpf) and then spreading posteriorly along the developing spinal cord by the 12-somite stage (approximately 15 hpf). At 24 hpf GFP-expressing cells were in the retina and lens. By 72 hpf GFP expression levels were strong and localized to the glia of the brain, neural retina, spinal cord, and ventral spinal nerves, with moderate expression in the enteric nervous system and weaker levels in the olfactory sensory placode and otic capsule. GFP expression in glia co-localized with anti-GFAP antibodies, but did not co-localize with the neuronal antibodies HuC/D or calretinin in mature neurons.
Both natural rewards and addictive substances have the ability to reinforce behaviors. It has been unclear whether identical neural pathways mediate the actions of both. In addition, little is known about these behaviors and the underlying neural mechanisms in a genetically tractable vertebrate, the zebrafish Danio rerio. Using a conditioned place preference paradigm, we demonstrate that wildtype zebrafish exhibit a robust preference for food as well as the opiate drug morphine that can be blocked by the opioid receptor antagonist naloxone. Moreover, we show that the too few mutant, which disrupts a conserved zinc finger-containing gene and exhibits a reduction of selective groups of dopaminergic and serotonergic neurons in the basal diencephalon, displays normal food preference but shows no preference for morphine. Pretreatment with dopamine receptor antagonists abolishes morphine preference in the wildtype. These studies demonstrate that zebrafish display measurable preference behavior for reward and show that the preference for natural reward and addictive drug is dissociable by a single-gene mutation that alters subregions of brain monoamine neurotransmitter systems. Future genetic analysis in zebrafish shall uncover further molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying the formation and function of neural circuitry that regulate opiate and food preference behavior.
Oligodendrocyte precursor cell (OPC) proliferation and migration are critical for the development of myelin in the central nervous system (CNS). Previous studies showed that localized expression of the chemokine CXCL1 signals through the receptor CXCR2 to inhibit the migration and enhance the proliferation of spinal cord OPCs during development. Here, we report structural and functional alterations in the adult CNS of Cxcr2-/- mice. In Cxcr2-/- adult mice, we observed regional alterations in the density of oligodendrocyte lineage cells in Cxcr2-/- adult mice, with decreases in the cortex and anterior commissure but increases in the corpus callosum and spinal cord. An increase in the density and arborization of spinal cord NG2 positive cells was also observed in Cxcr2-/- adult mice. Compared with wild-type (WT) littermates, Cxcr2-/- mice exhibited a significant decrease in spinal cord white matter area, reduced thickness of myelin sheaths, and a slowing in the rate of central conduction of spinally elicited evoked potentials without significant changes in axonal caliber or number. Biochemical analyses showed decreased levels of myelin basic protein (MBP), proteolipid protein (PLP), and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). In vitro studies showed reduced numbers of differentiated oligodendrocytes in Cxcr2-/- spinal cord cultures. Together, these findings indicate that the chemokine receptor CXCR2 is important for the development and maintenance of the oligodendrocyte lineage, myelination, and white matter in the vertebrate CNS.


Gap-junctional channels are large intercellular aqueous pores formed by head-to-head association of two gap-junctional hemichannels (connexin hexamers), one from each of the adjacent cells. The mechano-transduction of sound waves into electrical impulses occurs in the cochlea, which houses the organ of Corti. Hereditary deafness is frequent and mutations of connexin 26, the predominant connexin of the cochlea, are its most frequent cause. Mutations of R75 cause deafness and disrupt gap-junctional communication. Here, we determined the effects of substitutions of R75 with different residues (alanine, asparagine, aspartic acid, lysine, phenylalanine, tyrosine or tryptophan) on formation of gap-junctional channels and hemichannels. We show that connexin 26 R75 is essential for the formation of gap-junctional channels. Substitution of R75 with aromatic residues yields functional hemichannels that display altered voltage dependence, whereas substitution with other residues yields non-functional hemichannels. The expression of R75 mutants has a dominant negative effect on gap-junctional communication mediated by wild-type connexin 26, independently of the ability of the mutants to form functional gap-junctional hemichannels. Our results show that the arginine located at position 75 of connexin 26 is essential for function, and cannot be replaced by other residues.
Detection thresholds and most comfortable loudnesses (MCLs) were determined as a function of pulse rate for standard biphasic pulse trains (BP) and for anodic and cathodic monophasic phases alternating at fixed intervals (ALT-m). Three different phase durations were examined. With a 100-micros phase duration, thresholds for the ALT-m stimulus were substantially (up to 12 dB) lower than for the BP stimuli at relatively low rates (200 pps), but were similar to the BP thresholds at high rates (1000 pps). Thresholds for BP pulse trains decreased monotonically with increasing rate, whereas the function for ALT-m waveforms was non-monotonic with a maximum between 400 and 1000 pps. These trends occurred for three different cochlear implant devices, different electrode configurations, and, generally, for different phase durations (10.8, 25, and 100 micros/phase). However, at the shorter phase durations, thresholds remained lower for the ALT-m stimulus, even at 5000 pps, the highest rate studied. Dynamic ranges of the BP pulse trains increased with increasing rate, irrespective of the phase duration under test, but for the ALT-m stimuli this was only true at the shorter phase durations tested. At a 100-mus phase duration, dynamic ranges for the ALT-m waveforms did not differ significantly as a function of rate. The results confirm previous reports that delaying charge recovery, in this case by switching from a BP to an ALT-m wave shape, can substantially reduce thresholds [Van Wieringen, A., Carlyon, R.P., Laneau, J., Wouters, J., 2005. Effects of waveform shape on human sensitivity to electrical stimulation of the inner ear. Hear. Res. 200, 73-86; Carlyon, R.P., van Wieringen, A., Deeks, J.M., Long, C.J., Lyzenga, J, Wouters, J., 2005. Effect of inter-phase gap on the sensitivity of cochlear implant users to electrical stimulation. Hear. Res. 205, 210-224]. However, at high pulse rates, this advantage only occurs at short phase durations. In addition, we show that the complex interaction between the effects of pulse shape, rate, and phase duration on thresholds can be captured by the simple linear model described by Carlyon et al.
In today's societies, successful new medical imaging technologies have focused unprecedented attention on the inside of the human body. These techniques have jumped the walls of the biomedical field per se, penetrating the fields of culture and law. The article traces a genealogy of twentieth-century medical techniques used to visualize the human body and brain, from X-rays to the more sophisticated CTs, MRIs, and PET scans. It explores the changes that these ever more numerous visualization techniques have occasioned in our corporality and examines how these technologies have been received in the courtroom and in popular culture, especially in literature, movies, and magazines.
The purpose of this study is to evaluate, in an experimental model of spinal cord injury (SCI), the presence of apoptotic cell death after trauma and if early administration of a single bolus of methylprednisolone (MP) influences apoptosis in the zone of trauma and in adjacent spinal cord segments. For this study, a total of 96 adult female Wistar rats were subjected to spinal contusion at the T6-T8 level, producing immediate paraplegia. Forty-eight animals (treated group) received a single intraperitoneal injection of MP, at a dose of 30 mg/kg body weight, 10 minutes later. Cells undergoing apoptosis were detected by means of immunohistochemical labeling with the monoclonal antibody Apostain (anti-ssDNA MAb F7-26), in the injured spinal cord tissue, both in the zone of the lesion and in the adjacent spinal segments (rostral and caudal zones), 1, 4, 8, 24 and 72 hours and 1 week after injury. Apoptosis was detected in neurons and glial cells in the zone of the lesion 1 hour after trauma, with a pattern that showed no changes 4 hours later. Between 4 and 8 hours postinjury, the number of apoptotic cells increased, after which it decreased over the following days. In the adjacent spinal segments, apoptotic cells were detected 4 hours after trauma, and increased progressively over the remainder of the study, the number of apoptotic cells being similar in the lesion zone and in rostral and caudal zones one week after injury. When the group of MP-treated animals was considered, significant decreases in the number of apoptotic cells were detected in the lesion zone 24 hours after injury, and in the rostral and caudal zones, at 72 hours and at 1 week after trauma. These findings show that early administration of a single bolus of MP decreases apoptotic cell death after SCI, supporting the utility of MP in reducing secondary damage in injured spinal cord tissue.
The present study used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and a cued version of a flanker paradigm to elucidate the effects of task preparation on subsequent brain activation patterns. A mixed block and event-related design was employed to examine activations associated with the cue periods themselves and the cued and un-cued correct responses to incongruent flankers. A number of areas were active during the cues, most notably left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC), which was interpreted as subserving a role in task-set maintenance. Widespread activity was noted for correct responses to incongruent flankers, including bilateral parietal and frontal regions, consistent with previous studies. Activation was increased in these regions for correct responses after cue periods. An overlapping network of regions was also noted for cues and correct responses, suggesting preparation of task-appropriate anatomical regions during the cue period. These results suggest that cue periods allow participants to prime task-relevant areas within the brain and highlight the importance of left DLPFC in top-down control.
Mutations in the dysferlin (DYSF) gene are associated with limb girdle muscular dystrophy type 2B and Miyoshi myopathy. In this study, we report the identification and characterization of a novel dysferlin transcript that we named DYSF_v1 (GenBank accession: DQ267935). This transcript differs from the currently known dysferlin transcript (GenBank accession: AF075575) in the sequence of the entire first exon which spans 232 bases. This unique first exon is derived from intron 1 of DYSF, and has an immediate upstream 5' untranslated region containing CpG islands and sequences consistent with transcription factor binding sites. Exon 1 of DYSF_v1 shares 85% sequence homology and has similar genomic organization with the first exon of mouse dysferlin. Northern blot analysis showed that the DYSF_v1 transcript spans 7.5 kb and is expressed in human skeletal muscle, heart, placenta, brain, spleen, kidney, intestine, and lung tissues. DYSF_v1 retains phylogenic conservancy and shows similar expression pattern as the currently known human dysferlin.
An active kinesthetic-to-visual matching task was performed by 15 children aged 5-10 years and five young adults. The task required the participants to locate the target visually while performing center-out drawing movements to the located visual targets in the absence of visual feedback of hand/pen motion. Movement time (MT), terminal end-point position error (EPE), and initial directional error (IDE) were measured. The general finding is that the end-point error variability, representing the joint localization probability distributions for proprioceptive localization of the hand and visual localization of the target, was largest for the youngest children, but did not differ from one another for the older age groups. The localization distributions, as characterized by principal component analysis, showed that both errors in extent and direction were significantly larger in the youngest children. These error distributions could not be accounted for by initial localization errors prior to movement onset in the children. It is likely that at least some portion of the increased movement variability seen during sensorimotor development in young children can be attributed not only to immature control mechanisms per se, but also to partial, not yet stable, forward representations for hand localization which are used for movement perception, planning, and control.
The effects of increasing complexity of visuo-motor transformations on movement were examined in 4-, 6-, and 8-year-old children and adults. Participants performed a 'center-out' drawing task under three increasingly complex conditions: (1) Normal transformation: The target, line path and hand position were fully visible, in the horizontal plane, throughout the movement. (2) Aligned transformation: The target and line path were displayed horizontally above the workspace, with vision of the arm/hand occluded. (3) Vertical transformation: The target and line paths were presented on a vertical computer monitor with vision of the arm/hand occluded. Results showed that with increasing age, movements became faster, straighter, and smoother. The 4- and 6-year-old children were more variable in their specification of movement direction than the 8-year-old children and the adults, and were also more affected by the complexity of the transformation. This suggested that besides the complexity of the visual transformation, the familiarity/experienced environment might also play a role in 'sharpening' the transformation maps represented in movement planning.
A previous experiment investigating visuomotor adaptation in typically developing children and children with Developmental Coordination Disorder (DCD) suggested poor adaptation to an abruptly induced visuomotor perturbation. In the current study, using a similar center-out drawing task, but administering either an abrupt or a gradual perturbation, and twice as many adaptation trials, we show that typically developing children are well able to successfully update an existing internal model in response to a 60 degrees rotation of the visual feedback, independent of the perturbation condition. Children with DCD, however, updated their internal map more effectively during exposure to an abrupt visuomotor perturbation than to a gradual one. This may suggest that the adaptation process in children with DCD responds differently to small vs. large steps of visuomotor discrepancies. Given the known role of the cerebellum in providing an error signal necessary for updating the internal model in response to a gradual visuomotor distortion, the results of our study add to the growing body of evidence implicating compromised cerebellar function in DCD.
Large genomic rearrangements are recognized as playing a pathogenic role in an increasing number of human genetic diseases. It is important to develop efficient methods for the routine detection and confirmation of these germline defects. Multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA) is considered an early step for molecular diagnosis of several genetic disorders. However, artifacts might hamper the interpretation of MLPA analysis, especially when rearrangements involve a single exon. Therefore, rearrangements must be verified by two independent methods. In this study, we developed nonfluorescent multiplex-PCR coupled to high-performance liquid chromatography (NFMP-HPLC) and analyzed whether the use of this method combined with MLPA could be helpful in the detection and confirmation of gross MSH2 and MLH1 genomic rearrangements. A total of nine nonfluorescent multiplex-PCRs were developed to analyze the 16 MSH2 and 19 MLH1 exons. Reliable multiplex amplifications and nonfluorescent peak quantitation were obtained with a limited number of cycles (&lt; or = 25) using a denaturing HPLC (DHPLC) instrument under nondenaturing conditions. The results obtained by NFMP-HPLC were highly reproducible. The combined use of MLPA and NFMP-HPLC identified and independently confirmed putative MLH1 and MSH2 deletions in eight out of 50 unrelated patients with hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer (HNPCC). In five cases, the deletions affected a single exon and in three cases multiple contiguous exons. These results were in agreement with breakpoint and complementary DNA (cDNA) analyses. Considering that MLPA and NFMP-HPLC are unlikely to be affected by the same artifacts, their combined use could also provide a robust and cost-effective strategy for routine screening and confirmation of putative rearrangements in other genes, especially when a single exon is involved or a precise characterization of breakpoints is not achieved.



This prospective comparative clinical study evaluated the effectiveness of clinical hypnosis and its long-term effect in oral and maxillofacial treatment. A total of 45 highly anxious and nonanxious subjects were evaluated by subjective experience and objective parameters. Parameters were EEG, ECG, heart rate, blood pressure, blood oxygen saturation, respiration rate, salivary cortisol concentration, and body temperature. During and subsequent to the operative treatment, hypnosis led to a significant reduction of systolic blood pressure, and respiration rate and to significant changes in the EEG. The subjective values of the parameters evaluated existing anxiety mechanisms and patterns and possible strategies to control them, whereas the objective parameters proved the effectiveness of hypnosis and its long-term effect.
This study explored using hypnosis for pain and anxiety management in 6 colonoscopy patients (5 men, 1 woman), who received a hypnotic induction and instruction in self-hypnosis on the day of their colonoscopy. Patients' levels of anxiety were obtained before and after the hypnotic induction using Visual Analogue Scales (VAS). Following colonoscopy, VASs were used to assess anxiety and pain during colonoscopy, perceived effectiveness of hypnosis, and patient satisfaction with medical care. Hypnotizability was assessed at a separate appointment. The authors also obtained data (time for procedure, number of vasovagal events, and recovery time) for 10 consecutive patients who received standard care. Results suggest that hypnosis appears to be a feasible method to manage anxiety and pain associated with colonoscopy, reduces the need for sedation, and may have other benefits such as reduced vasovagal events and recovery time.
Recently, a possible relationship between C-Reactive Protein (CRP), a marker of underlying low-grade inflammation, and mood disorders has been proposed by some researchers. The aim of this review is to elucidate the current facts and views about CRP in mood disorders such as Depressive and Bipolar Disorders. Several studies have examined the relationship between affective disorders and CRP, but the majority of the studies in literature have been limited by retrospective, case-controlled study design, and very few studies have examined the relationship between depression and CRP in large study samples. In conclusion, the role of CRP in mood disorders is, to date, intriguing but somewhat unclear. Further prospective studies are needed to introduce the CRP in clinical settings as a marker of affective states and suicidability.
Escitalopram has demonstrated a robust and dose-dependent efficacy in the treatment of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) for up to 3 months. In the present study, the efficacy and tolerability of escitalopram in the prevention of relapse in GAD was investigated. A total of 491 patients with a primary diagnosis of GAD and a Hamilton Anxiety (HAMA) total score&gt;or=20 received 12 wk of open-label treatment with a fixed dose of escitalopram (20 mg/d). Of these, 375 patients responded (HAMA total score&lt;or=10) and were randomized to double-blind treatment with 20 mg/d escitalopram (n=187) or placebo (n=188). Treatment was continued for 24-76 wk unless the patient relapsed or was withdrawn for other reasons. Relapse was defined as either an increase in HAMA total score to &gt;or=15, or lack of efficacy, as judged by the investigator. The results of the primary analysis showed a clear beneficial effect of escitalopram relative to placebo on the time to relapse of GAD (log-rank test, p&lt;0.001). The risk of relapse was 4.04 times higher for placebo-treated patients than for escitalopram-treated patients; the proportion of patients who relapsed was statistically significantly higher in the placebo group (56%) than in the escitalopram group (19%) (p&lt;0.001). Escitalopram was well tolerated and 7% of the escitalopram-treated patients withdrew due to adverse events, vs. 8% of the placebo patients. The incidence of discontinuation symptoms with escitalopram during tapered withdrawal was low; the symptoms primarily being dizziness (10-12%), nervousness (2-6%), and insomnia (2-6%). Escitalopram 20 mg/d significantly reduced the risk of relapse and was well tolerated in patients with GAD.
Major depression comorbid with panic disorder has a more severe clinical picture and adverse course than either disorder alone, and both conditions are associated with abnormalities in the serotonin system. Therefore, we hypothesized that central serotonergic function in the patients with comorbid panic disorder would be more disturbed than in major depression alone. Concentrations of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) monoamine metabolites of serotonin, norepinephrine, and dopamine were assayed by high-pressure liquid chromatography, and compared in female subjects with DSM-IV-diagnosed major depressive disorder and a lifetime diagnosis of panic disorder (MDD+PD, n=13), major depressive disorder and no lifetime panic disorder (MDD-, n=35), and a healthy volunteer (HV, n=15) group. All subjects were free of antidepressant medication for at least 14 d prior to the lumbar puncture procedure. CSF 5-hydroxylindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) was higher in the MDD+PD group (124.0+/-43.0 nmol/l) compared with the MDD- group (100.1+/-28.8 nmol/l, p=0.03) and the HV group (93.3+/-33.6 nmol/l, p=0.02). The MDD- group and HV group did not differ in CSF 5-HIAA. There were no group differences in the CSF metabolites of norepinephrine and dopamine, 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol and homovanillic acid respectively. Higher CSF 5-HIAA in women with comorbid major depressive disorder and lifetime panic disorder is indicative of greater serotonin release, increased serotonin metabolism, and/or decreased 5-HIAA clearance in this group. This difference in pathophysiology is potentially related to the greater morbidity and poorer treatment response of this group.
Recent post-mortem and imaging studies provide evidence for a glial reduction in different brain areas in mood disorders. This study was aimed to test whether glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), a member of transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta superfamily, in blood levels was associated with mood disorders. We measured GDNF and TGF-beta levels in whole blood in remitted patients with mood disorders [n=56; major depressive disorders (MDD) 39, bipolar disorders (BD) 17] and control subjects (n=56). GDNF and TGF-beta were assayed with the sandwich ELISA method. Total GDNF levels were significantly lower in MDD and in BD than in control subjects (MDD, p=0.0003; BD, p=0.018), while no significant difference in total TGF-beta1 or total TGF-beta2 levels was found in these groups. Our study suggests that lower GDNF levels might be involved in the pathophysiology of mood disorders, although this preliminary study has several limitations.

The development of psychoanalysis as a science and clinical practice has always relied heavily on various forms of conceptual research. Thus, conceptual research has clarified, formulated and reformulated psychoanalytic concepts permitting to better shape the findings emerging in the clinical setting. By enhancing clarity and explicitness in concept usage it has facilitated the integration of existing psychoanalytic thinking as well as the development of new ways of looking at clinical and extraclinical data. Moreover, it has offered conceptual bridges to neighbouring disciplines particularly interested in psychoanalysis, e.g. philosophy, sociology, aesthetics, history of art and literature, and more recently cognitive science/neuroscience. In the present phase of psychoanalytic pluralism, of worldwide scientific communication among psychoanalysts irrespective of language differences and furthermore of an intensifying dialogue with other disciplines, the relevance of conceptual research is steadily increasing. Yet, it still often seems insufficiently clear how conceptual research can be differentiated from clinical and empirical research in psychoanalysis. Therefore, the Subcommittee for Conceptual Research of the IPA presents some of its considerations on the similarities and the differences between various forms of clinical and extraclinical research, their specific aims, quality criteria and thus their specific chances as well as their specific limitations in this paper. Examples taken from six issues of the International Journal of Psychoanalysis in 2002-3 serve as illustrations for seven different subtypes of conceptual research.
For Freud, body ego was the organizing basis of the structural theory. He defined it as a psychic projection of the body surface. Isakower's and Lewin's classical findings suggest that the body surface experiences of nursing provide the infant with sensory-affective stimulation that initiates a projection of sensory processes towards the psychic realm. During nursing, somato-sensory, gustatory and olfactory modalities merge with a primitive somatic affect of satiation, whereas auditory modality is involved more indirectly and visual contact more gradually. Repeated regularly, such nascent experiences are likely to play a part in the organization of the primitive protosymbolic mental experience. In support of this hypothesis, the authors review findings from a neurophysiological study of infants before, during and after nursing. Nursing is associated with a significant amplitude change in the newborn electroencephalogram (EEG), which wanes before the age of 3 months, and is transformed at the age of 6 months into rhythmic 3-5 Hz hedonic theta-activity. Sucking requires active physiological work, which is shown in a regular rise in heart rate. The hypothesis of a sensory-affective organization of the nascent body ego, enhanced by nursing and active sucking, seems concordant with neurophysiological phenomena related to nursing.

The purpose of this study was to assess the effects of kayak ergometer training on functional tests performed in wheelchair by persons with spinal cord injury. Ten post-rehabilitated persons with thoracic spinal cord injury volunteered for the study and performed 30 sessions of kayak ergometer training during a 10-week period. The ergometer was modified with an additional balance demand in the medio-lateral direction. Before and after the training period the subjects performed functional tests in the wheelchair: Sit-and-reach tests (distance), mounting a platform, transfer to a bench (height), propelling the wheelchair: 5 m on the rear wheels; in a figure-8; 15 m on a level surface and 50 m on a 3 degrees inclined surface (time). Test-retests were performed for all tests before the training began. A written questionnaire was distributed to evaluate the subjective experiences of the training. The test-retest resulted in coefficient of variation of 1.3 - 4.6 %. There were significant improvements in sit-and-reach (14 %), mounting a platform (7 %), transfer to a bench (10 %), propelling on level (3 %), and inclined surface (6 %). Furthermore, the training, did not cause any shoulder pain or other problems. This, and the positive subjective experience expressed by the subjects after the training indicate that this type of training is a suitable activity for persons with thoracic spinal cord injury.

Tic frequency was assessed and compared across home and clinic as well as three experimentally-manipulated situations in order to assess the phenomenon of tic reactivity. Forty-three youngsters with chronic tic disorder recruited from two geographically-distinct sites were videotaped over three weekly laboratory visits under each of the following conditions: (1) alone/camera present, (2) other present/camera present, and (3) alone/camera hidden. Contrary to expectation, more tics were observed during overt as compared to covert observation, while the presence of another person had no overall impact on tic expression. Mean tic counts obtained from clinic observation did not significantly differ from those obtained at home collected either one day before or after. Tic frequency counts were remarkably stable over the three weekly assessments both at home and clinic. Study findings are consistent with past observations that tic expression can be influenced by environmental factors and suggest the stability of tic frequency may exhibit greater temporal and setting stability than previously thought. The clinical and research implications of these results are discussed.
There is size information in natural sounds. For example, as humans grow in height, their vocal tracts increase in length, producing a predictable decrease in the formant frequencies of speech sounds. Recent studies have shown that listeners can make fine discriminations about which of two speakers has the longer vocal tract, supporting the view that the auditory system discriminates changes on the acoustic-scale dimension. Listeners can also recognize vowels scaled well beyond the range of vocal tracts normally experienced, indicating that perception is robust to changes in acoustic scale. This paper reports two perceptual experiments designed to extend research on acoustic scale and size perception to the domain of musical sounds: The first study shows that listeners can discriminate the scale of musical instrument sounds reliably, although not quite as well as for voices. The second experiment shows that listeners can recognize the family of an instrument sound which has been modified in pitch and scale beyond the range of normal experience. We conclude that processing of acoustic scale in music perception is very similar to processing of acoustic scale in speech perception.


Objective of the study was to replicate in adults our previous findings of decreased heart rate and normal endocrine responses to stress in autistic children and to elucidate the discrepancy between autonomic and endocrine stress responses by including epinephrine, norepinephrine, oxytocin and vasopressin measurements. Ten autistic spectrum disorder (ASD) adults were compared to 14 healthy controls in their response to a psychosocial stressor (public speaking). ASD patients showed decreased heart rate, but normal cortisol responses, consistent with our prior findings in children. No differences in norepinephrine, epinephrine, oxytocin or vasopressin responses to stress were found. However, in contrast to previous findings in low functioning autistic children, ASD adults showed increased basal oxytocin levels, which may be related to developmental factors.
This study compared characteristics of pregnant women treated in women-only (WO) and mixed-gender (MG) substance abuse treatment programs and compared services provided by these two types of programs. Participants were 407 pregnant women who were admitted to 7 WO programs and 29 MG programs in 13 counties across California during 2000-2002. Pregnant women treated in WO programs demonstrated greater severity in drug use, legal problems, and psychiatric problems than those treated in the MG programs. They were also less likely to be employed and more likely to be homeless. Women-only programs were more likely to offer child care, children's psychological services, and HIV testing. The greater problem severity of pregnant women treated in WO programs suggests that these specialized services are filling an important gap in addiction services, although further expansion is warranted in psychiatric, legal, and employment services.
A 45-year-old man with retinitis pigmentosa experienced total aniridia in the left eye due to direct blunt trauma 2 years after uneventful bilateral phacoemulsification via a 3.5 mm clear corneal incision. Ultrasound biomicroscopy (UBM) of the left eye revealed no missing or stretched zonular fibers extending from the ciliary body to the anterior capsule, a few iris root remnants, a normal ciliary body, an in-the-bag acrylic intraocular lens, and Descemet's membrane dehiscence at the corneal tunnel through which the iris extruded. The eye recovered 20/25 visual acuity after 1 week. Transient hyphema and a rise in intraocular pressure were recorded. This is the first report of traumatic aniridia 2 years after phacoemulsification with UBM evidence of undamaged zonular apparatus. A UBM examination may be clinically helpful, especially when blood prevents accurate slitlamp examination of the anterior segment.

This primer introduces a Special Section on brain imaging, which includes a commentary and 10 data papers presenting applications of brain imaging to questions on developmental psychopathology. This primer serves two purposes. First, the article summarizes the strength and weaknesses of various brain-imaging techniques typically employed in research on developmental psychopathology. Second, the article places research on brain imaging in a broader context by discussing particular limitations and utilities of imaging. Specifically, while brain imaging is currently of limited clinical utility, work in this area is beginning to shape clinical thinking. Brain-imaging research offers a unique opportunity to constrain theories of pathophysiology based on understandings of brain function. This effect promises to open avenues for novel treatments.

Poor Performance IQ (PIQ) relative to Verbal IQ (VIQ) is a standard finding in depressed patients administered the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Revised (WAIS-R). This study examined performance of depressed subjects on the instrument's latest revision, the WAIS-III, which provides a more detailed subdomain profile of intellectual functioning. WAIS-III IQ, index and subscale scores were compared between 121 unmedicated subjects in major depressive episode and 41 healthy volunteers, using demographically adjusted T-score conversions. Depressed subjects had significantly lower PIQ scores, but neither the absolute VIQ/PIQ difference nor prevalence of VIQ/PIQ discrepancies &gt;1 SD differed between groups. Index score differences were exclusively in Processing Speed, and subtest differences only on timed tasks. WAIS-III scores did not differ between subjects with major depressive and bipolar disorders, nor between subjects with and without melancholia or history of suicidal behavior. Results suggest general intellectual performance in depression is best characterized by deficits in processing speed, rather than global nonverbal abilities, and that this deficit is consistent across depression subtypes.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative movement disorder presenting with subcortical pathology and characterized by motor deficits. However, as is frequently reported in the literature, patients with PD can also exhibit cognitive and behavioral (i.e., nonmotor) impairments, cognitive executive deficits and depression being the most prominent. Considerable attention has addressed the role that disruption to frontostriatal circuitry can play in mediating nonmotor dysfunction in PD. The three nonmotor frontostriatal circuits, which connect frontal cortical regions to the basal ganglia, originate from the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC), anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), and orbitofrontal cortex (OFC). The objective of the current study was to use our understanding of frontostriatal circuit function (via literature review) to categorize neuropsychological measures of cognitive and behavioral executive functions by circuit. To our knowledge, such an approach has not been previously attempted in the study of executive dysfunction in PD. Neuropsychological measures of executive functions and self-report behavioral inventories, categorized by circuit function, were administered to 32 nondemented patients with Parkinson's disease (NDPD) and to 29 demographically matched, healthy normal control participants (NC). Our findings revealed significant group differences for each circuit, with the PD group performing worse than the NC group. Among the patients with PD, indices of impairment were greater for tasks associated with DLPFC function than with OFC function. Further, only an index of DLPFC test performance was demonstrated to significantly discriminate individuals with and without PD. In conclusion, our findings suggest that nondemented patients with PD exhibit greater impairment on neuropsychological measures associated with DLPFC than with ACC or OFC circuit function.

Amidst controversy about methodology and safety, intraoperative neurophysiology has entered a new era of increasingly routine transcranial and direct electrical brain stimulation for motor evoked potential (MEP) monitoring. Based on literature review and illustrative clinical experience, this tutorial aims to present a balanced overview for experienced practitioners, surgeons and anesthesiologists as well as those new to the field. It details the physiologic basis, indications and methodology of current MEP monitoring techniques, evaluates their safety, explores interpretive controversies and outlines some applications and results, including aortic aneurysm, intramedullary spinal cord tumor, spinal deformity, posterior fossa tumor, intracranial aneurysm and peri-rolandic brain surgeries. The many advances in motor system assessment achieved in the last two decades undoubtedly improve monitoring efficacy without unduly compromising safety. Future studies and experience will likely clarify existing controversies and bring further advances.
The differential dysfunction of chromatic and achromatic visual pathways in early Parkinson's disease (PD) was evaluated by means of visual-evoked potentials (VEPs) recorded in 12 patients (mean age 60.1 +/- 8.3 years; range 46 to 74 years) in the early stages of PD and not yet undergoing treatment with L-dopa, and in 12 age-matched controls. Visual stimuli were full-field (14 deg) equiluminant red-green (R-G), blue-yellow (B-Y), and black-white (B-W) sinusoidal gratings of two cycles per degree, presented in onset (300 milliseconds)--offset (700 milliseconds) mode, at two contrast (K) levels (90% and 25%). The VEP mean latencies were significantly more delayed in PD patients than in controls for chromatic than for luminance stimuli, in particular for B-Y stimuli of low contrast (K90%: B-W = 6.6 milliseconds, R-G = 3.34 milliseconds, B-Y = 15.48 milliseconds; K25%: B-W = 7.8 milliseconds, R-G = 14.8 milliseconds, B-Y = 28.9). Latencies of chromatic VEPs were more variable that achromatic VEP latencies in both normal subjects and PD patients. Therefore, the frequency of latency abnormalities (within 30%) was not significantly different for the three visual stimuli. Our results show that, in addition to achromatic VEPs, chromatic VEPs are impaired in early PD patients not yet undergoing L-dopa therapy, indicating an acquired color deficiency in these patients. The greater delay for the B-Y VEPs suggests a higher vulnerability of visual blue-cone pathway in the early stages of the disease. However, the overall sensitivity of chromatic VEPs in detecting early visual impairment in PD is comparable with that of achromatic VEPs.
We report a case of tension pneumoventricle in a patient who underwent excision of a midbrain tectal plate tumour via a supracerebellar infratentorial approach while in the sitting position. Tension pneumoventricle was diagnosed when the patient's clinical condition deteriorated rapidly early in the postoperative period. An urgent computed tomography scan of the head revealed the presence of air in the frontal and temporal horns of the lateral ventricles and blood in the third and fourth ventricles. An emergency external ventricular drain insertion was performed, resulting in prompt recovery. We believe the contributing factors resulting in such rapid development of tension pneumoventricle were the patient's sitting position, pre-existing hydrocephalus, breach of the third ventricle during surgery and the presence of blood in the third and fourth ventricles.
The transverse patterning (TP) task (A+ B-, B+ C-, C+ A-) has played a central role in testing the hypothesis that medial-temporal (and, in particular, hippocampal) brain damage selectively impairs learning on at least some classes of configural (i.e., nonlinear) learning tasks. Results in the animal and human literature generally support that hypothesis. Reed and Squire [Impaired transverse patterning in human amnesia is a special case of impaired memory for two-choice discrimination tasks. Behavioral Neuroscience, 113, 3-9, 1999], however, advanced an alternative account in which impaired TP performance in amnesia reflects a generic scaling artifact arising from the greater difficulty of the TP task compared to the elemental (i.e., linear) control task that is typically used. We begin with a critique of Reed and Squire, countering their conceptual arguments and showing that their results, when analyzed appropriately, support the configural deficit hypothesis. We then report results from eight new amnesic patients and controls on an improved version of the TP task. Despite substantial practice, accuracy of patients with bilateral hippocampal damage due to anoxia reached and maintained an asymptote of only 54% correct, well below the maximum accuracy obtainable (67%) in the absence of configural learning. A patient with selective bilateral damage to the anterior thalamic nuclei exhibited a TP accuracy asymptote that was near 67%, a pattern of two out of three correct consecutive trials, and a pattern of nearly always answering correctly for two of the three TP item pairs. These results are consistent with a set of unique and parameter-free predictions of the configural deficit hypothesis.
We examined the precise distribution of mRNAs for six cloned rat P2Y receptor subtypes, P2Y1, P2Y2, P2Y4, P2Y6, P2Y12, and P2Y14, in the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) and spinal cord by in situ hybridization histochemistry (ISHH) with 35S-labeled riboprobes. In the DRG, P2Y1 and P2Y2 mRNAs were expressed by 15% and 24% of all neurons, respectively. Although each receptor was evenly distributed between neurofilament-positive and -negative neurons, P2Y2 was rather selectively expressed by TrkA-positive neurons. Schwann cells expressed P2Y2 mRNA, and the nonneuronal cells around the DRG neurons, perhaps the satellite cells, expressed P2Y12 and P2Y14 mRNAs. No ISHH signals for P2Y4 or P2Y6 were seen in any cellular components of the DRG. In the spinal cord, P2Y1 and P2Y4 mRNAs were expressed by some of the dorsal horn neurons, whereas the motor neurons in the ventral horn had P2Y4 and P2Y6 mRNAs. In addition, astrocytes in the gray matter had P2Y1 mRNA, and the microglia throughout the spinal cord expressed P2Y12 mRNA. P2Y14 mRNA was weakly expressed by putative microglia. These findings should provide useful information in interpreting pharmacological and electrophysiological studies in this field given the lack of highly selective antagonists for each P2Y receptor subtype.
This study examined child characteristics and family factors as predictors of stress in the biological or adoptive parents of 6- to 12-year-old children with fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASDs). Impaired executive functioning, poorer adaptive functioning, externalizing and internalizing behavior problems, and adoptive parent status all made significant and independent contributions to the prediction of higher levels of child domain stress, as reported by parents on the Parenting Stress Index. Biological parent status and fewer family resources were associated with higher levels of parent domain stress. Teacher ratings of the child&quot;s executive functioning impairments and externalizing and internalizing behavior problems also were associated with parent reports of child domain stress. Findings highlight the need to provide support not only to children with FASDs, but to their caregivers as well.

Persons with major mental illness often have chronic diseases and poor physical health. Therefore, all practicing physicians should learn about communicating effectively with these patients. Few efforts to teach medical students communication skills have specifically targeted patients with major mental illness. Indeed, most of the limited literature on this topic is decades old, predating significant scientific advances in cognitive neuroscience and psychiatric therapeutics and changes in social policies regarding major mental illness. To gather preliminary insight into training needs, we interviewed 13 final-year students from 2 Boston medical schools. Students' observations coalesced around 4 themes: fears and anxieties about interacting with persons with major mental illness; residents &quot;protecting&quot; students from patients with major mental illness; lack of clinical maturity; and barriers to learning during psychiatry rotations. Educational researchers must explore ways to better prepare young physicians to communicate effectively with patients with major mental illness.
In this study, plasma levels of both low-molecular-mass sulfhydryls/disulfides and mixed disulfides with proteins in 41 healthy humans aged 21-92 years were measured, with the aim of assessing whether there is a shift of the thiol/disulfide balance during aging and verifying some of the possible effects of the thiol imbalance. Our data suggest that aging is strictly correlated to a decrease in plasma glutathione and cysteinylglycine with the concomitant increase of most oxidized forms of thiols and a parallel increase in total cysteine and total homocysteine, probably due to an augmented efflux of these amino acids from various organs. The occurrence of two distinct regulatory systems for plasmatic pools of glutathione/cysteinylglycine on the one hand and cysteine/homocysteine on the other hand is hypothesized.
Girolamo Fabrici d'Acquapendente (ca.1533-1619), in his olograph will donated to the Signoria of Venice a rich collection of anatomical paintings, which are today preserved in the Marciana Library. The third volume of these tabulae pictae, entitled De Anatomia Capitis Cerebri Nervorum, deals with the nervous system and contains the only known illustrations by Fabrici regarding neuroanatomy. Despite the realisation of this splendid collection of 21 coloured paintings, neither a systematic description nor an iconographic record regarding nervous structures were found to be published by Fabrici. For this reason, a thorough study of these plates is pivotal to a better understanding of the contribution made by d'Acquapendente to the knowledge of the nervous system. Besides their aesthetic quality, Fabrici's tabulae pictae appear as a unique document of exceptional scientific value, thanks to the unprecedented realism given to the anatomical structures by the innovative use of colours. These pictures represent the highest point reached by the 16th-century Paduan Medical School well demonstrating its aim for a sound naturalistic approach.
Cellular stress leads to a change in distribution of RNA-binding proteins. HuR, a member of the ELAV/Hu family of RNA-binding proteins, is nuclear in distribution and following heat shock is found in large cytoplasmic stress granules where translation is inhibited. HuD, another ELAV/Hu RNA-binding protein, stabilizes the GAP-43 mRNA in response to nerve growth factor (NGF) stimulation in PC12 cells. We were interested in determining the nuclear distribution of HuD and if neurotrophic stimulation induced changes in the distribution of HuD. In PC12 cells, we found, as expected, that HuR translocates from the nucleus to the cytoplasm in response to heat shock. In response to heat shock, HuD forms large cytoplasmic stress granules, consistent with a role for HuD in the cessation of translation. In unstimulated cells, HuD is distributed in small granules in the cytoplasm and is consistently present at low levels in the nucleus. Stimulation of PC12 cells with NGF induces neuronal differentiation including outgrowth of neurites and increased levels of GAP-43 protein, whereas HuD remains localized in small cytoplasm granules and is still present in the nucleus. These results suggest that, following neurotrophic stimulation, the lack of changes in HuD distribution are due to continued steady state of HuD nuclear shuttling in PC12 cells, or that HuD is not normally shuttled from the nucleus in response to NGF.

Auditory neuropathy (AN) is a hearing disorder characterized by the absence or severe distortion of the auditory brainstem responses, in the presence of preserved otoacoustic emissions. This peculiar combination suggests the presence of a defect impinging upon the functional complex formed by inner hair cells, the primary afferents (spiral ganglion neurones) and the first order synapses between hair cells and the cochlear nerve. Typically, AN patients show a severe speech perception impairment, which appears reduced out of proportion to pure tone threshold, but the clinical presentation of AN is quite complex. Hearing loss is a common symptom associated with mitochondrial diseases; however, AN has only rarely been reported in these disorders. Here we report a rare association, the first case observed in Italy, in a patient with autosomal recessive mitochondrial myopathy and mitochondrial DNA multiple deletions, and a hearing deficit with the audiological and electrophysiological features of AN.

Insulin regulation of hepatic gene transcription is a vital component of glucose homeostasis. Understanding the molecular regulationof thisprocess aids the searchfor the defect(s) that promotesinsulin-resistant states, such asdiabetesmellitus. We havepreviously shownthat the insulin regulationof hepatic IGF-binding protein-1 (IGFBP1) expression requiresthe signalling proteins phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI 3-kinase) and mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR). In this report, we demonstrate that activation of the mTOR pathway, without activation of its upstream regulator PI 3-kinase, reduces IGFBP1 expression. Therefore, mTOR activation is sufficient to mimic insulin regulation of this gene. However, longer exposure (&gt;3 h) of cells to insulin reduces the importance of this pathway in insulin regulation of the gene, suggesting a temporal switch in signalling mechanisms linking insulin action to the IGFBP1 gene promoter. In contrast, the activation of PI 3-kinase is required for insulin regulation of IGFBP1 under all conditions tested. Therefore, an mTOR-independent, PI 3-kinase-dependent pathway becomes more important in IGFBP1 regulation after long exposure to insulin. This is a novel concept in insulin regulation of gene expression and demonstrates the importance of temporal analysis of signalling processes.
We examined, for the first time, the possible association between schizophrenia and the anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) gene which plays an important role in neurodevelopment. When two nonsynonymous polymorphisms (Arg1491Lys and Glu1529Asp) were examined, there were significant differences in genotype and allele distributions between patients and controls. Individuals homozygous for the minor allele (1491Lys-1529Asp) were more common in patients than in controls (p = 0.0064, odds ratio 2.4, 95% CI 1.3-4.6). These results suggest that genetic variations of the ALK gene might confer susceptibility to schizophrenia.
Data has accumulated indicating an inverse relation between central serotonergic (5-HT) neurotransmission and blood pressure in hypertensive rats and in healthy individuals. The present study aimed to elucidate whether an inverse relation exists between systolic (SBP) and diastolic (DBP) blood pressure levels and central 5-HT neurotransmission also in a group of alcohol-dependent individuals. Central 5-HT neurotransmission was assessed by using the maximum prolactin (PRL) responses to the 5-HT probe DL-fenfluramine (DL-FEN; 60 mg po) in 17 alcohol-dependent male subjects investigated during a period of on-going alcohol intake. BP was measured immediately before all time points for blood sampling, and readings before DL-FEN administration were used as the subjects resting BP. Results showed that there were inverse correlations between the maximum PRL responses to DL-FEN and the SBP levels (r = -0.57, p &lt; 0.002) and with the DBP levels (r = -0.52, p &lt; 0.05), respectively. The present study suggests the existence of an association between central 5-HT neurotransmission and blood pressure regulation also in alcohol-dependent individuals.
Axotomized peripheral neurons are capable of regeneration, and the rate of regeneration can be enhanced by a conditioning lesion (i.e., a lesion prior to the lesion after which neurite outgrowth is measured). A possible signal that could trigger the conditioning lesion effect is the reduction in availability of a target-derived factor resulting from the disconnection of a neuron from its target tissue. We tested this hypothesis with respect to nerve growth factor (NGF) and sympathetic neurons by administering an antiserum to NGF to adult mice for 7 days prior to explantation or dissociation of the superior cervical ganglion (SCG) and subsequently measuring neurite outgrowth. The antiserum treatment dramatically lowered the concentration of NGF in the SCG and increased the rate of neurite outgrowth in both explants and cell cultures. The increase in neurite outgrowth was similar in magnitude to that seen after a conditioning lesion. To determine if exogenous NGF could block the effect of a conditioning lesion, mice were injected with NGF or cytochrome C immediately prior to unilateral axotomy of the SCG, and for 7 days thereafter. A conditioning lesion effect of similar magnitude was seen in NGF-treated and control animals. While NGF treatment increased NGF levels in the contralateral control ganglion, it did not significantly elevate levels in the axotomized ganglion. The results suggest that the decreased availability of NGF after axotomy is a sufficient stimulus to induce the conditioning lesion effect in sympathetic neurons. While NGF administration did not prevent the conditioning lesion effect, this may be due to the markedly decreased ability of sympathetic neurons to accumulate the growth factor after axotomy.
Uninfected neurons of the substantia nigra (SN) degenerate in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-positive patients through an unknown etiology. The HIV envelope glycoprotein 120 (gp120) causes apoptotic neuronal cell death in the rodent striatum, but its primary neurotoxic mechanism is still under investigation. Previous studies have shown that gp120 causes neurotoxicity in the rat striatum by reducing brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). Because glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) and BDNF are neurotrophic factors crucial for the survival of dopaminergic neurons of the SN, we investigated whether gp120 reduces GDNF and BDNF levels concomitantly to induce apoptosis. Rats received a microinjection of gp120 or vehicle into the striatum and were sacrificed at various time intervals. GDNF but not BDNF immunoreactivity was decreased in the SN by 4 days in gp120-treated rats. In these animals, a significant increase in the number of caspase-3- positive neurons, both tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive and -negative, was observed. Analysis of TH immunoreactivity revealed fewer TH-positive neurons and fibers in a medial and lateral portion of cell group A9 of the SN, an area that projects to the striatum, suggesting that gp120 induces retrograde degeneration of nigrostriatal neurons. We propose that dysfunction of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system associated with HIV may be caused by a reduction of neurotrophic factor expression by gp120.
Within the course of only the last few years, RNA interference (RNAi) has been established as a standard technology for investigation of protein function and target validation. The present review summarizes recent progress made in the application of RNAi in neurosciences with special emphasis on pain research. RNAi is a straightforward method to generate loss-of-function phenotypes for any gene of interest. In mammals, silencing is induced by small interfering RNAs (siRNAs), which have been shown to surpass traditional antisense molecules. Due to its high specificity, RNAi has the potential for subtype selective silencing of even closely related genes. One of the major challenges for in vivo investigations of RNAi remains efficient delivery of siRNA molecules to the relevant tissues and cells, particularly to the central nervous system. Various examples will be given to demonstrate that intrathecal application of siRNAs is a suitable approach to analyse the function of receptors or other proteins that are hypothesized to play an important role in pain signalling. Intensive efforts are currently ongoing to solve remaining problems such as the risk of off-target effects, the stability of siRNA molecules and their efficient delivery to the CNS. RNAi has thus demonstrated that it is an extremely valuable tool for the development of new analgesic drugs.
Because cannabinoid and serotonin (5-HT) systems have been proposed to play an important role in drug craving, we investigated whether cannabinoid 1 (CB1) and 5-HT(1A) receptor ligands could affect voluntary alcohol intake in two mouse strains, C57BL/6 J and DBA/2 J, with marked differences in native alcohol preference. When offered progressively (3-10% ethanol) in drinking water, in a free-choice procedure, alcohol intake was markedly lower (approximately 70%) in DBA/2 J than in C57BL/6 J mice. In DBA/2 J mice, chronic treatment with the cannabinoid receptor agonist WIN 55,212-2 increased alcohol intake. WIN 55,212-2 effect was prevented by concomitant, chronic CB1 receptor blockade by rimonabant or chronic 5-HT(1A) receptor stimulation by 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)-tetralin, which, on their own, did not affect alcohol intake. In C57BL/6 J mice, chronic treatment with WIN 55,212-2 had no effect but chronic CB1 receptor blockade or chronic 5-HT(1A) receptor stimulation significantly decreased alcohol intake. Parallel autoradiographic investigations showed that chronic treatment with WIN 55,212-2 significantly decreased 5-HT(1A)-mediated [35S]guanosine triphosphate-gamma-S binding in the hippocampus of both mouse strains. Conversely, chronic rimonabant increased this binding in C57BL/6 J mice. These results show that cannabinoid neurotransmission can exert a permissive control on alcohol intake, possibly through CB1-5-HT(1A) interactions. However, the differences between C57BL/6 J and DBA/2 J mice indicate that such modulations of alcohol intake are under genetic control.
By altering key amino acid residues of the Alzheimer's disease-associated amyloid-beta peptide, we investigated the mechanism through which amyloid-beta inhibits cytochrome c oxidase (EC 1.9.3.1). Native amyloid-beta inhibited cytochrome oxidase by up to 65%, and the level of inhibition was determined by the period of amyloid-beta ageing before the cytochrome oxidase assay. Substituting tyrosine-10 with alanine did not affect maximal enzyme inhibition, but the altered peptide required a longer period of ageing. By contrast, oxidizing the sulfur of methionine-35 to a sulfoxide, or substituting methionine-35 with valine, completely abrogated the peptide's inhibitory potential towards cytochrome oxidase. Sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis analysis revealed that the loss of inhibitory potential towards cytochrome oxidase with the methionine-35-altered peptides did not correlate with a substantially different distribution of amyloid-beta oligomeric species. Although the amyloid-beta-mediated inhibition of cytochrome oxidase was completely dependent on the presence of divalent Cu2+, it was not supported by monovalent Cu+, and experiments with catalase and H2O2 indicated that the mechanism of cytochrome oxidase inhibition does not involve amyloid-beta-mediated H2O2 production. We propose that amyloid-beta-mediated inhibition of cytochrome oxidase is dependent on the peptide's capacity to bind, then reduce Cu2+, and that it may involve the formation of a redox active amyloid-beta-methionine radical.
Exposure to triorthocresyl phosphate (TOCP) may result in a late neurological complication, i.e. organophosphate-induced delayed neuropathy (OPIDN). The aim of this study was to examine changes in levels of cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (CDK5) and of its activator, p35/p25, in the spinal cord of hens treated by TOCP. After exposure to a single dose of TOCP, groups of adult hens were examined in 3, 5, 7, 9, 14, and 18 days after exposure. CDK5, p35/p25 expression and distribution in the lumbar spinal cord were evaluated by immunohistochemistry and Western blotting. The hens showed signs of OPIDN around day 9 after exposure. The number of p (phosphorylated) -CDK5 and p35 positive cells increased significantly. Co-localization and mislocalization of p-CDK5 and p35/p25 was identified and became evident in neurons around the 9th day. Meanwhile, CDK5, p-CDK5, p35, p25 protein levels and p25/p35 ratio were increased, and peaked around the 9th day, then decreased. Some hens' unilateral common peroneal was treated by roscovitine 3 days after TOCP exposure. Axonal transport of these nerves was faster than of their opposite side and of those simply treated by TOCP. These findings indicate aberrant activation of CDK5 may be involved in the pathogenesis of OPIDN.
Compounds blocking the uptake of the endogenous cannabinoid anandamide (AEA) have been used to explore the functions of the endogenous cannabinoid system in the CNS both in vivo and in vitro. In this study, the effects of four commonly used acyl-based uptake inhibitors [N-(4-hydroxyphenyl)arachidonylamide (AM404), N-(4-hydroxy-2-methylphenyl) arachidonoyl amide (VDM11), (5Z,8Z,11Z,14Z)-N-(3-furanylmethyl)-5,8,11,14-eicosatetraenamide (UCM707) and (9Z)-N-[1-((R)-4-hydroxybenzyl)-2-hydroxyethyl]-9-octadecen-amide (OMDM2)] and the related compound arvanil on C6 glioma cell viability were investigated. All five compounds reduced the ability of the cells to accumulate calcein, reduced the total nucleic acid content and increased the activity of lactate dehydrogenase recovered in the cell medium. AM404 (10 microm) and VDM11 (10 microm) acted rapidly, reducing cell viability after 3 h of exposure when cell densities of 5,000 per well were used. In contrast, UCM707 (30 microm), OMDM2 (10 microm) and the related compound arvanil (10 microm) produced a more slowly developing effect on cell viability, although robust effects were seen after 6-9 h of exposure. At higher cell densities, the toxicities of AM404 and UCM707 were reduced. Comparison of the compounds with arachidonic acid, arachidonic acid methyl ester, AEA, arachidonoyl glycine and oleic acid suggested that the toxicity of the arachidonoyl-based compounds was related primarily to the acyl side-chain rather than the head group. A variety of pre-treatments blocking possible metabolic pathways and receptor targets were tested, but the only consistent protective treatment against the effects of these compounds was the antioxidant N-acetyl-L-cysteine. It is concluded that AM404, VDM11, UCM707 and OMDM2 produce a rapid loss of C6 glioma cell viability over the same concentration range as is required for the inhibition of AEA uptake in vitro, albeit with a longer latency. Such effects should be kept in mind when acyl-derived compounds are used to probe the function of the endocannabinoid system in the CNS, particularly in chronic administration protocols.
Type A receptors for GABA (GABA(A) receptors) that contain the delta subunit are located predominantly at extrasynaptic sites and are implicated in modulation of neuronal excitability through tonic inhibition. We have examined the effects of chronic exposure to and subsequent withdrawal of progesterone or the progesterone metabolite 3alpha-hydroxy-5alpha-pregnan-20-one (3alpha,5alpha-THPROG) on expression of the delta subunit of GABA(A) receptors and on receptor function in cultured rat hippocampal neurons. Progesterone treatment for 1 day increased the amounts of both delta subunit mRNA and protein, whereas such treatment for 6 days induced marked decreases in the abundance of both the mRNA and protein. Subsequent progesterone withdrawal up-regulated expression of the delta subunit, which was significantly increased at 9-12 h after withdrawal. These effects of progesterone were mimicked by 3alpha,5alpha-THPROG and blocked by the 5alpha-reductase inhibitor finasteride. They were also accompanied by parallel changes in the function of GABA(A) receptors in hippocampal neurons. These results show that chronic exposure to and withdrawal of progesterone induce differential effects on both expression of the delta subunit of GABA(A) receptors and receptor function that are mediated by 3alpha,5alpha-THPROG. They are consistent with the notion that this progesterone metabolite plays a key physiological role in modulation of GABAergic synapses.
In Xenopus laevis, corticotrophin-releasing factor (CRF) and urocortin 1 are present in the brain and they both are potent stimulators of alpha-melanophore stimulating hormone (MSH) secretion by melanotroph cells in the pituitary gland. Because both CRF and urocortin 1 bind with high affinity to CRF receptor type 1 (CRF1) in mammals and Xenopus laevis, one of the purposes of the present study was to identify the sites of action of CRF and urocortin 1 in the Xenopus brain and pituitary gland. Moreover, we raised the hypothesis that the external light intensity is a physiological condition controlling CRF1 expression in the pituitary melanotroph cells. By in situ hybridisation, the presence of CRF1 mRNA is demonstrated in the olfactory bulb, amygdala, nucleus accumbens, preoptic area, ventral habenular nuclei, ventromedial thalamic area, suprachiasmatic nucleus, ventral hypothalamic area, posterior tuberculum, tectum mesencephali and cerebellum. In the pituitary gland, CRF1 mRNA occurs in the intermediate and distal lobe. The optical density of the CRF1 mRNA hybridisation signal in the intermediate lobe of the pituitary gland is 59.4% stronger in white-adapted animals than in black-adapted ones, supporting the hypothesis that the environmental light condition controls CRF1 mRNA expression in melanotroph cells of X. laevis, a mechanism likely to be responsible for CRF- and/or urocortin 1-stimulated secretion of alpha-MSH.
Chronic unpredictable stress affects many properties in rat brain. In the dentate gyrus, among other things, increased mRNA expression of the Ca2+ channel alpha1C subunit has been found after 21 days of unpredictable stress in combination with acute corticosterone application (100 nM). In the present study, we examined: (i) whether these changes in expression are accompanied by altered Ca2+ currents in rat dentate granule cells recorded on day 22 and (ii) whether treatment with the glucocorticoid receptor antagonist mifepristone during the last 4 days of the stress protocol normalises the putative stress-induced effects. Three weeks of unpredictable stress did not affect Ca2+ current amplitude in dentate granule cells under basal conditions (i.e. after incubation with vehicle solution). However, the sustained Ca2+ current component (which largely depends on the alpha1C subunit) was significantly increased in amplitude after chronic stress when slices had been treated with corticosterone 1-4 h before recording. These findings suggest that dentate granule cells are exposed to an increased calcium load after exposure to an acute stressor when they have a history of chronic stress, potentially leading to increased vulnerability of the cells. The present results are in line with the molecular data on Ca2+ channel alpha1C subunit expression. A significant three-way interaction between chronic stress, corticosterone application and mifepristone treatment was found, indicating that the combined effect of stress and corticosterone depends on mifepristone cotreatment. Interestingly, current density (defined as total current divided by capacitance) did not differ between the groups. This indicates that the observed changes in Ca2+ current amplitude could be attributable to changes in cell size.
Atherosclerotic plaque rupture within the internal carotid artery is an important cause of transient ischemic attack (TIA) and stroke. Conventional imaging techniques such as ultrasound and angiography provide information about the structural consequences of such plaques in terms of luminal stenosis. Most clinical trials of carotid surgery and stenting and based on these imaging methods. Techniques aimed at imaging the biological 'functional' status of the plaque are now emerging. Most of these are based on the premise that inflammatory activity is an index of plaque stability. In this article we review potential imaging targets from the known molecular biological pathways of atherosclerosis. Both conventional imaging techniques and the newer methods are discussed. Recent data from position emission tomography (PET) imaging and from the use of superparamagnetic iron oxide particles with magnetic resonance (MR) imaging are shown.
By combining all the data available from the Genetic Analysis of Multiple sclerosis in EuropeanS (GAMES) project, we have been able to identify 17 microsatellite markers showing consistent evidence for apparent association. As might be expected five of these markers map within the Major Histocompatibility Complex (MHC) and are in LD with HLA-DRB1. Individual genotyping of the 12 non-MHC markers confirmed association for three of them--D11S1986, D19S552 and D20S894. Association mapping across the candidate genes implicated by these markers in 937 UK trio families revealed modestly associated haplotypes in JAG1 (p=0.019) on chromosome 20p12.2 and POU2AF1 (p=0.003) on chromosome 11q23.1.
Autoantibody-mediated compromise of central neurotransmission is a pathogenic mechanism proposed in etiology of neuropsychiatric lupus (NP-SLE). Recent experimental data support the hypothesis that intrathecally-synthesized antibodies play a key role in brain damage and behavioral dysfunction. However, autoantibody-producing plasma cells have not yet been detected in brain tissue. We presently use contemporary immunohistochemical markers and flow cytometry to assess distribution and prevalence of plasma cells and other phenotypes, which infiltrate brains of lupus-prone MRL-lpr mice. The functional status of infiltrates was confirmed by in situ hybridization for TNF-alpha mRNA. Consistent with the notion of breached blood-CSF and blood-brain barriers, CD3+ T-cells (approximately 20% of the mononuclear cell infiltrate) were plentiful in choroid plexuses and commonly seen around blood vessels. The CD138+ plasma cells were restricted to the choroid plexus and stria medullaris of diseased MRL-lpr mice. Although accounting for less than 1% of the total cell infiltrate, CD19+IgM+ B-cells increased with age in brains of MRL-lpr mice. Severe mononuclear cell infiltration was accompanied by splenomegaly and retarded brain growth. The results obtained support the hypothesis of progressive neurodegeneration as a consequence of leukocyte infiltration and intrathecal autoantibody synthesis. Further characterization of neuroactive antibodies and their targets may contribute to a better understanding of brain atrophy and behavioral dysfunction in the MRL model, and potentially in NP-SLE.
We have recently shown that de novo formation of lymphoid structures resembling B-cell follicles occurs in the inflamed central nervous system (CNS) meninges in a subset of patients with secondary progressive multiple sclerosis and in SJL mice with relapsing-remitting experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Because lymphotoxin (LT) alpha(1)beta(2) is essential for lymphoid tissue organization, we used real-time PCR to examine LTbeta and LTbeta receptor (LTbetaR) gene expression in the CNS of SJL mice immunized with PLP 139-151 peptide. Moreover, we used the decoy receptor LTbetaR-immunoglobulin fusion protein to block the interaction of lymphotoxin (LT) alpha(1)beta(2) with the LTbeta receptor (LTbetaR) in mice with established EAE and evaluate the effect of systemic and local treatments with the fusion protein on disease progression, CNS lymphocytic infiltration and formation of meningeal B-cell follicles. The present findings indicate that both LTbeta and LTbetaR are upregulated at EAE onset and during subsequent relapses and that systemic and local blockade of the LT pathway with LTbetaR-Ig results in protracted and transient inhibition of EAE clinical signs, respectively. LTbetaR-Ig treatment also reduces T- and B-cell infiltration and prevents the induction of the chemokines CXCL10 and CXCL13 and the formation of organized ectopic follicles in the EAE-affected CNS. Targeting of molecules involved in lymphoid organogenesis could represent a valid strategy to inhibit CNS inflammation and formation of ectopic follicles, which may play a role in maintaining an abnormal, intrathecal humoral immune response in CNS autoimmune disease.
Chemokine receptors and adhesion molecules are used selectively for the transmigration of leukocytes across the blood-brain barrier (BBB) during neuroinflammation. We established an activated in vitro BBB (aIVBBB) using physiological concentrations of cytokines. We studied CCL5-driven migration as a model to determine how chemokine receptors and adhesion molecules regulate T-cell and monocyte migration across the aIVBBB. Increased expression of CCL5 and its receptors, CCR1 and CCR5 have been described in the perivascular space of multiple sclerosis (MS) lesions. Elucidating the determinants of CCL5-mediated mononuclear cell migration may clarify appropriate targets for therapeutic modulation in neuroinflammatory conditions. In response to CCL5, there was a significant increase in total mononuclear cell migration across the aIVBBB. Neutralizing monoclonal antibodies to CCR1 and CCR5 abrogated CCL5-driven transmigration, suggestive of non-redundant receptor usage in mononuclear cell migration to this chemokine in vitro. CCL5-driven transmigration was also dependent on alpha(4)beta(1) integrin/fibronectin connecting segment-1 (FN CS-1) and alpha(L)beta(2) integrin/intercellular adhesion molecule (ICAM-1) interactions. Monocyte migration to CCL5 was solely dependent on alpha(4)beta(1) integrin/FN CS-1 while T-cell migration required both alpha(L)beta(2) integrin/ICAM-1 and alpha(4)beta(1) integrin/FN CS-1 interactions. These findings provide plausible molecular targets for the selective inhibition of mononuclear cell trafficking during the acute immune effector phases of MS and other neuroinflammatory diseases.


Epilepsy is a common clinical problem in patients with brain tumours, strongly affecting patients' quality of life. Tumour-related seizures are often difficult to control, and the clinical picture is complicated by frequent interactions between antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) and antineoplastic agents. We studied the safety and efficacy of levetiracetam (LEV), a new AED with a different pharmacological profile from traditional anticonvulsants, in 19 patients (6 females; age range 28-70 years, mean 48 years) with supratentorial gliomas and epilepsy. Seizure types were simple partial in four patients, complex partial in 4, complex partial with secondary generalization in 7, and generalized tonic-clonic in 4. LEV was added to the existing AED treatment on account of persisting seizures, and titrated at dosages of 1,000-3,000 mg/day. Patients were seen at the Outpatient's Centre every 1-3 months, and followed-up for 7-50 months (mean 25 months, median 20 months). At the end of the observation period, nine patients were seizure free (seizure free period ranging from 7 to 33 months, mean 16, median 12) and five patients reported an improvement in seizure-frequency from daily to weekly (n=1) or from weekly to monthly (n=3). Seizure frequency was unmodified in four patients and increased (from monthly to weekly) in one. No LEV-related adverse effects were observed. LEV plasma concentrations monitored in 12 subjects ranged from 11.9 to 82.1 microg/ml. Our preliminary open data indicate that add-on treatment with LEV in patients with brain tumours is safe and appears to be effective in reducing seizure frequency. Controlled studies on larger populations are warranted to confirm these open observations.
Docetaxel (Taxotere) is a hemisynthetic, anti-cancer compound with good preclinical and clinical activity in a variety of systemic neoplasms. We tested its activity against malignant gliomas using local delivery methods. Antitumor activity was assessed in vitro against human (U87 and U80 glioma) and rat brain-tumor (9L gliosarcoma and F98 glioma) cell lines. For in vivo evaluation, we incorporated docetaxel into a biodegradable polymer matrix, determined associated toxicity in the rat brain, and measured efficacy at extending survival in a rat model of malignant glioma. Also, we examined the combined local delivery of docetaxel with carmustine (BCNU) against the experimental intracranial glioma. Rats bearing intracranial 9L gliosarcomas were treated 5 days after tumor implantation with various polymers (placebo, 5% docetaxel, 3.8% BCNU, or 5% docetaxel and 3.8% BCNU combination). Animals receiving docetaxel polymers (n=15, median survival 39.1 days) had significantly improved survival over control animals (n=12, median survival 22.5 days, P=0.01). Similarly, animals receiving BCNU polymers (n=15, median survival 39.3 days, 13.3% long-term survivors) demonstrated an increase in survival compared to the controls (P=0.04). Animals receiving the combination polymers demonstrated a modest increase in survival compared to either chemotherapeutic agent alone (n=14, median survival 54.9 days, 28.6% long-term survivors) with markedly improved survival over controls (P=0.003). We conclude that locally delivered docetaxel shows promise as a novel anti-glioma therapy and that the combination of drug regimens via biodegradable polymers may be a great therapeutic benefit to patients with malignant glioma.
Neprilysin (NEP) degrades amyloid-beta (Abeta) and is thought to contribute to its clearance from the brain. In Alzheimer disease (AD), downregulation of NEP has been suggested to contribute to the development of cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA). We examined the relationship among NEP, CAA, and APOE status in AD and elderly control cases. NEP was most abundant in the tunica media of cerebrocortical blood vessels and in pyramidal neurons. In homogenates of the frontal cortex, NEP protein levels were reduced in AD but not significantly; NEP enzymatic activity was significantly reduced in AD. Immunohistochemistry revealed a reduction of both vascular and parenchymal NEP. The loss of vessel-associated NEP in AD was inversely related to the severity of CAA, and analysis of cases with severe CAA showed that levels of vascular NEP were reduced to the same extent in Abeta-free and Abeta-laden vessels, strongly suggesting that the reduction in NEP is not simply secondary to CAA. Possession of APOE epsilon4 was associated with significantly lower levels of both parenchymal and vascular NEP. Colinearity of epsilon4 with the presence of moderate to severe CAA precluded assessment of the independence of this association from NEP levels. However, logistic regression analysis showed low NEP levels to be a significant independent predictor of moderate to severe CAA.
We have shown that exposure of neurons to opioid immediately before ischemia induces ischemia tolerance. This phenomenon is called acute opioid preconditioning. In this study, we test the hypothesis that opioids induce delayed neuropreconditioning (from hours to days after opioid exposure). Exposure to morphine, an agonist for delta-, mu-, and kappa-opioid receptors, or Tan-67, a selective delta1-receptor agonist, for 30 minutes at 24 hours before a 35-minute oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD, to simulate ischemia in vitro) dose-dependently reduced the OGD-induced neuronal death in the CA1 region of the rat organotypic hippocampal slice cultures. The morphine preconditioning-induced neuroprotection was inhibited by beta-funaltrexamine, a mu-opioid receptor antagonist, but not by 7-benzylidenenaltrexone, a delta1-receptor antagonist, or nor-binaltorphimine, a kappa-receptor antagonist. The Tan-67 preconditioning-induced neuroprotection was inhibited by 7-benzylidenenaltrexone. The combination of morphine and Tan-67 did not induce a better preconditioning effect than did morphine or Tan-67 alone. Application of morphine and Tan-67 at 24 hours before permanent right middle cerebral arterial occlusion reduced brain infarct volume and improved neurologic functional outcome assessed 24 hours after the occlusion in adult male rats. These results suggest that morphine and Tan-67 induce a delayed preconditioning effect in the brain under in vivo and in vitro conditions. Whereas the delayed phase of morphine preconditioning may involve mu-opioid receptors, Tan-67 preconditioning may be mediated by delta1-opioid receptors. Morphine and Tan-67 may activate a shared intracellular signaling pathway to induce the delayed preconditioning effects in the brain.
The response of a neuron in striate cortex to an optimally oriented stimulus is suppressed by a superimposed orthogonal stimulus. The neural mechanism underlying this cross-orientation suppression (COS) may arise from intracortical or subcortical processes or from both. Recent studies of the temporal frequency and adaptation properties of COS suggest that depression at thalamo-cortical synapses may be the principal mechanism. To examine the possible role of synaptic depression in relation to COS, we measured the recovery time course of COS. We find it too rapid to be explained by synaptic depression. We also studied potential subcortical processes by measuring single cell contrast response functions for a population of LGN neurons. In general, contrast saturation is a consistent property of LGN neurons. Combined with rectifying nonlinearities in the LGN and spike threshold nonlinearities in visual cortex, contrast saturation in the LGN can account for most of the COS that is observed in the visual cortex.
The ventral hippocampus (VH) may have an important role in spatial memory processes and emotional behaviors through connections with the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and amygdala. Although the mPFC and amygdala receive afferent projections from the VH, it has not been determined whether the individual VH neurons project to both the mPFC and the amygdala. In this study, antidromic responses to the mPFC and amygdala stimulation were evoked in single VH neurons. In addition, VH neurons were retrogradely double-labeled with fluorescent tracers injected in the mPFC and amygdala. VH neurons projecting to both the mPFC and amygdala were predominantly located in the subiculum and CA1 and bifurcated near or at the soma. Our anatomical and electrophysiological evidence for the presence of VH neurons projecting to both the mPFC and amygdala provides a previously unrecognized pathway from the hippocampus that simultaneously activates the mPFC and amygdala.
Fragile X syndrome is produced by a defect in a single X-linked gene, called Fmr1, and is characterized by abnormal dendritic spine morphologies with spines that are longer and thinner in neocortex than those from age-matched controls. Studies using Fmr1 knockout mice indicate that spine abnormalities are especially pronounced in the first month of life, suggesting that altered developmental plasticity underlies some of the behavioral phenotypes associated with the syndrome. To address this issue, we used intracellular recordings in neocortical slices from early postnatal mice to examine the effects of Fmr1 disruption on two forms of plasticity active during development. One of these, long-term potentiation of intrinsic excitability, is intrinsic in expression and requires mGluR5 activation. The other, spike timing-dependent plasticity, is synaptic in expression and requires N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor activation. While intrinsic plasticity was normal in the knockout mice, synaptic plasticity was altered in an unusual and striking way: long-term depression was robust but long-term potentiation was entirely absent. These findings underscore the ideas that Fmr1 has highly selective effects on plasticity and that abnormal postnatal development is an important component of the disorder.
This study describes the patterns of activity of hip abductor and adductor muscles and relates their activity to the frontal plane motions of the hindlimbs during unrestrained walking in the cat to provide insight into the function of these muscles in maintaining stability during walking. Electromyographic activity was recorded from hindlimb muscles while cats walked across a walkway. Four video cameras were used to record the movement of the animal in three dimensions. To further delineate the role of the hip abductors and adductors in regulating frontal plane movements of the legs, medial-lateral translations of the walking surface were periodically introduced. During walking, the hip abducts throughout much of the stance phase and adducts during swing. Normally, the abductors and adductors are co-active during much of the stance phase and are quiescent during swing. Consequently, the adduction observed during swing is likely the result of passive events. It is argued that the activity of the hip abductors during stance phase plays a prominent role in regulating frontal plane motion of the legs during walking. However, when medial-lateral stability is disturbed, both the hip abductors and adductors respond to stabilize the frontal plane motion of the body mass while also adjusting the frontal plane swing trajectory and subsequent paw placement. The balance corrective reactions observed in the cat after medial-lateral perturbations of the support surface reasonably approximate the reactions observed previously in humans, indicating that the cat is a reasonable model to explore the neural mechanisms of lateral stability during walking.
The intrinsic firing modes of adult CA1 pyramidal cells vary along a continuum of &quot;burstiness&quot; from regular firing to rhythmic bursting, depending on the ionic composition of the extracellular milieu. Burstiness is low in neurons exposed to a normal extracellular Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)](o)), but is markedly enhanced by lowering [Ca(2+)](o), although not by blocking Ca(2+) and Ca(2+)-activated K(+) currents. We show, using intracellular recordings, that burstiness in low [Ca(2+)](o) persists even after truncating the apical dendrites, suggesting that bursts are generated by an interplay of membrane currents at or near the soma. To study the mechanisms of bursting, we have constructed a conductance-based, one-compartment model of CA1 pyramidal neurons. In this neuron model, reduced [Ca(2+)](o) is simulated by negatively shifting the activation curve of the persistent Na(+) current (I(NaP)) as indicated by recent experimental results. The neuron model accounts, with different parameter sets, for the diversity of firing patterns observed experimentally in both zero and normal [Ca(2+)](o). Increasing I(NaP) in the neuron model induces bursting and increases the number of spikes within a burst but is neither necessary nor sufficient for bursting. We show, using fast-slow analysis and bifurcation theory, that the M-type K(+) current (I(M)) allows bursting by shifting neuronal behavior between a silent and a tonically active state provided the kinetics of the spike generating currents are sufficiently, although not extremely, fast. We suggest that bursting in CA1 pyramidal cells can be explained by a single compartment &quot;square bursting&quot; mechanism with one slow variable, the activation of I(M).
Metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) play important roles in neuroplasticity and disorders such as persistent pain. Group I mGluRs contribute to pain-related sensitization and synaptic plasticity of neurons in the laterocapsular division of the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeLC), although the roles of groups II and III mGluRs are not known. Extracellular single-unit recordings were made from 60 CeLC neurons in anesthetized adult rats. Background activity and evoked responses were measured before and during the development of the kaolin/carrageenan-induced knee-joint arthritis. Drugs were administered into the CeLC by microdialysis before and/or after arthritis induction. A selective group III mGluR agonist (LAP4) inhibited CeLC neurons' responses to stimulation of the knee and ankle in arthritis (n = 7) more potently than under normal conditions (n = 14). A selective group II agonist (LY354740) inhibited responses under normal conditions (n = 12) and became more potent in inhibiting responses to noxious stimulation of the knee in arthritis (n = 10). The effect of LY354740 on innocuous stimulation of the knee and stimulation of the ankle did not change in arthritis. Antagonists for groups II (EGLU, n = 9) and III (UBP1112, n = 8) had no effects under normal conditions. In arthritis, UPB1112 (n = 5) facilitated the responses to stimulation of knee and ankle, whereas EGLU (n = 5) selectively increased the responses to stimulation of the knee. These data suggest that mGluRs of groups II and III can inhibit nociceptive processing in CeLC neurons. The increased function and endogenous activation of group II mGluRs in the arthritis pain model appear more input-selective than the general changes of group III mGluRs.
The axon initial segment plays important roles in spike initiation and invasion of axonal spikes into the soma. Among primary sensory neurons, those in the mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus (MTN) are exceptional in their ability to initiate soma spikes (S-spikes) in response to synaptic inputs, consequently displaying two kinds of S-spikes, one caused by invasion of an axonal spike arising from the sensory receptor and the other initiated by somatic inputs. We investigated where spikes are initiated in such MTN neurons and whether there are any differences between the two kinds of S-spikes. Simultaneous patch-clamp recordings from the soma and axon hillock revealed a spike-backpropagation from the spike-initiation site in the stem axon to the soma in response to 1-ms somatic current pulse, which disclosed the delayed emergence of S-spikes after the current-pulse offset. These initiated S-spikes were smaller in amplitude than S-spikes generated by stimulation of the stem axon; however, 4-AP (&lt; or =0.5 mM) eliminated the amplitude difference. Furthermore, 4-AP dramatically shortened the delay in spike initiation without affecting the spike-backpropagation time in the stem axon, whereas it substantially prolonged the refractory period of S-spikes arising from axonal-spike invasion without significantly affecting that of presumed axonal spikes. These observations suggest that 4-AP-sensitive K(+) currents exert two opposing effects on S-spikes depending on their origins: suppression of spike initiation and facilitation of axonal-spike invasion at higher frequencies. Consistent with these findings, strong immunoreactivities for Kv1.1 and Kv1.6, among 4-AP-sensitive and low-voltage-activated Kv1 family examined, were detected in the soma but not in the stem axon of MTN neurons.
The evolution of the neuroscience education team has been a very positive development at our institution. In addition to their other daily responsibilities, the team members coordinated the orientation of 80 new staff members hired in a 2-year period. This diverse group presented challenges, but the overall outcome was increased staff retention. The team has seen new staff hires grow into competent neuroscience nurses.
Cerebral venous thrombosis, also known as cortical venous, cerebral sinus, cerebral venous sinus, or dural sinus thrombosis, results from clot formation in one of the many outflow tracts of the brain. Obstruction of flow causes venous hypertension, which is responsible for clinical findings associated with this condition. Signs and symptoms of cerebral venous thrombosis include headache, nausea, mental status changes, seizures, and focal neurologic deficits. Although cerebral venous thrombosis can occur at any time during life, women are particularly vulnerable before delivery and during the postpartum period because of the hypercoagulable state that accompanies pregnancy. This case study describes the challenging clinical course of one postpartum patient who developed venous thrombosis of the sagittal sinus.
This descriptive study evaluated concepts relating to end-of-life care addressed in Journal of Neuroscience Nursing during a 10-year period. An analysis of 377 articles published from 1993 to 2002 found 40 articles addressing some area of end-of-life content. Of 2,558 pages reviewed, 201 pages (7.8%) contained end-of-life content. The primary areas of end-of-life care discussed in the articles were needs assessment for families, coping strategies and support systems, and recognition of family and caregiver needs. The most common diseases and disorders addressed were epilepsy, stroke, traumatic brain injury, multiple sclerosis, and Parkinson's disease. To increase overall content in the field of palliative and end-of-life care, authors can include end-of-life content in articles submitted for publication.
A young woman 4 days postpartum was admitted after experiencing two seizures. Her mentation waxed and waned until, after several hours, staff were unable to arouse her with voice or touch. A computed tomography scan demonstrated considerable white-matter edema. The patient's condition declined to a coma. She remained comatose despite therapeutic interventions to control increased intracranial pressure. To her family, her condition was a source of anguish. To the physicians and nurses, she was a puzzle. The final diagnosis was posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome, which was related to a preeclamptic condition and its associated hypertension. The collaboration of obstetricians and neurologists with vigilant care by neuroscience nurses resulted in a positive outcome for this challenging patient.
Trimethyltin (TMT) is a well-documented neurotoxin that affects primarily limbic system structures. Most previous studies have relied on histological approaches to examine TMT neurotoxicity, so the aim of this study was to employ the novel biomarker cleaved MAP-tau (C-tau) to assess TMT-induced CNS injury both quantitatively and qualitatively. Immunoblot studies indicated that cleaved MAP-tau proteins with molecular weights of 45-50 kD were present in the hippocampus of rats treated with TMT but not vehicle 21 days after treatment. Quantitative ELISA revealed that C-tau concentration in rats treated with TMT was greatest at 14 and 21 days in the piriform cortex and hippocampus, respectively; TMT did not significantly increase C-tau concentration in the mesencephalon. C-tau immunocytochemistry demonstrated the greatest TMT-induced damage in the hippocampus and piriform cortex. Additional studies utilizing dual immunocytochemistry revealed that C-tau-labeled cells were also glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive, leading to identification of these cells as astrocytes. Although the origin of C-tau in astrocytes of rats treated with TMT is currently unknown, increased C-tau concentration and the presence of C-tau positive cells in limbic system structures of TMT-treated rats further supports the view that C-tau is a reliable marker of CNS toxicity.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) is a devastating neurologic injury, and currently, the only recommended pharmacotherapy is high-dose methylprednisolone, which has limited efficacy. Estrogen is a multi-active steroid with anti-oxidant and anti-apoptotic effects. Estrogen may modulate intracellular Ca2+ and prevent inflammation. For this study, male rats were divided into three groups. Sham-group animals received a laminectomy at T12. Injured rats received both laminectomy and 40 gram centimeter force SCI. Estrogen-group rats received 4 mg/kg 17beta-estradiol (estrogen) at 15 min and 24 hr post-injury, and vehicle-group rats received equal volumes of dimethyl sulfoxide. Animals were sacrificed at 48 hr post-injury, and 1-cm segments of the lesion, rostral penumbra, and caudal penumbra were excised. The degradation of 68 kD neurofilament protein (NFP) and estrogen receptors (ER) was examined by Western blot analysis. Protein levels of calpain and the activities of calpain and caspase-3 were also examined. Levels of cytochrome c were determined in both cytosolic and mitochondrial fractions. Cell death with DNA fragmentation was examined using the TUNEL assay. At the lesion, samples from both vehicle and estrogen treated animals showed increased levels of 68 kD NFP degradation, calpain content, calpain activity, cytochrome c release, and degradation of ERalpha and ERbeta, as compared to sham. In the caudal penumbra, estrogen treatment significantly attenuated 68 kD NFP degradation, calpain content, calpain activity, levels of cytosolic cytochrome c, and ERbeta degradation. At the lesion, vehicle-treated animals displayed more TUNEL+ cells, and estrogen treatment significantly attenuated this cell death marker. We conclude that estrogen may inhibit cell death in SCI through calpain inhibition.
Neurons and astrocytes are generated from common neural precursors, yet neurogenesis precedes astrocytogenesis, which normally commences at later stages of development. We have previously reported that a particular cytosine residue within a STAT3-binding site in the astrocyte-specific marker glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) gene promoter becomes demethylated in neuroepithelial cells as gestation proceeds. This demethylation correlates tightly with the onset of astrocyte differentiation, suggesting that a change in DNA methylation at cell-type-specific gene promoters controls the switch from neurogenesis to astrocytogenesis in the developing brain. Here, we show that late-gestation neuroepithelial cells, which have already lost the methylation in the STAT3-binding site within the GFAP promoter, can still give rise to neurons and that these neurons do not respond to a STAT3-activating cytokine to express GFAP. Members of a transcriptional repressor family, the methylated-CpG binding proteins (MBDs), including MeCP2, are predominantly expressed in neurons, and ectopic MeCP2 expression inhibited astrocyte differentiation of neuroepithelial cells. Moreover, we found that exon 1 of the GFAP gene remains hypermethylated even in neuroepithelial cells at a late developmental stage and in neurons differentiated from such neuroepithelial cells. We further demonstrate that MeCP2 actually binds to the highly methylated exon 1 of the GFAP gene in neurons. These results suggest that region-specific DNA methylation and MBDs play an important role in the regulation of differentiation plasticity in neurons.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic inflammatory demyelinating disease of the central nervous system, and it is considered to be a T helper 1 (Th1) cell-mediated autoimmune disease. T-bet has been identified as a key transcription factor for the development of Th1 cells and the induction of interferon (IFN)-gamma production. T-bet is induced during T-cell activation by the IFN-gamma signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT)-1 signalling pathway. In this study we found an up-regulation of T-bet and pSTAT1 in peripheral blood CD4+ and CD8+ T cells and monocytes from relapsing-remitting MS patients in relapse compared with patients in remission and with healthy subjects. The increased expression of pSTAT1 strongly correlated with T-bet expression in CD4+ and CD8+ cells and monocytes from patients in relapse and was associated with an increased production of IFN-gamma by peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). pSTAT3 was also up-regulated in CD4+ and CD8+ cells and monocytes from patients in relapse and was associated with an increased production of interleukin (IL)-10 but not of IL-6. pSTAT1, pSTAT3, and T-bet expression strongly correlated with Gd-DTPA-enhanced lesions on brain and spinal cord magnetic resonance imaging. Our data show for the first time that there is an up-regulation of type 1 immunity-correlated transcription factors such as STAT1 and T-bet in peripheral blood subpopulations of MS patients in the active phase of disease. The evaluation of T-bet and pSTAT1 expression in peripheral blood CD4+, CD8+ T cells and monocytes could be used as a marker of disease activity in relapsing-remitting MS.
Reactive astrocytes surround amyloid depositions and degenerating neurons in Alzheimer's disease (AD). It has been previously shown that beta-amyloid peptide induces inflammatory-like responses in astrocytes, leading to neuronal pathology. Reactive astrocytes up-regulate nerve growth factor (NGF), which can modulate neuronal survival by signaling through TrkA or p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75NTR). Here, we analyzed whether soluble Abeta peptide 25-35 (Abeta) stimulated astrocytic NGF expression, modulating the survival of cultured embryonic hippocampal neurons. Hippocampal astrocytes incubated with Abeta up-regulated NGF expression and release to the culture medium. Abeta-stimulated astrocytes increased tau phosphorylation and reduced the survival of cocultured hippocampal neurons. Neuronal death and tau phosphorylation were reproduced by conditioned media from Abeta-stimulated astrocytes and prevented by caspase inhibitors or blocking antibodies to NGF or p75NTR. Moreover, exogenous NGF was sufficient to induce tau hyperphosphorylation and death of hippocampal neurons, a phenomenon that was potentiated by a low steady-state concentration of nitric oxide. Our findings show that Abeta-activated astrocytes potently stimulate NGF secretion, which in turn causes the death of p75-expressing hippocampal neurons, through a mechanism regulated by nitric oxide. These results suggest a potential role for astrocyte-derived NGF in the progression of AD.



This study examined the ability of nicotinamide (vitamin B3) to improve functional outcome in a dose-dependent manner following fluid percussion injury (FPI). Injured (duration of unconsciousness mean = 85.8 sec; apnea = 9.9 sec), rats were administered nicotinamide (500 or 50 mg/kg; ip) or saline at 15 min and 24 h. Serum analysis of nicotinamide concentrations were conducted 1 h following the last injection. Sensorimotor and cognitive tests were conducted for 35 days following FPI. Both the 500 and 50 mg/kg doses of nicotinamide significantly facilitated recovery on the vibrissae-forelimb placing test compared to saline treatment, which showed chronic impairments. Both treatments also significantly improved performance on the bilateral tactile adhesive removal test. On the cognitive tests, the 500 mg/kg dose, but not the 50 mg/kg dose, improved performance on a working memory task in the Morris water maze (MWM). However, acquisition of a reference memory task in the MWM was not improved. Serum analysis showed that the 500 mg/kg dose significantly raised nicotinamide concentrations by 30-fold and the 50 mg/kg dose by 3-fold compared to the saline administration. This study demonstrated that raising nicotinamide concentrations resulted in the reduction of the behavioral impairments following FPI. In fact, the 500 mg/kg dose prevented the occurrence of the behavioral deficits on the bilateral tactile removal and working memory tests. Both doses significantly reduced tissue loss and glial fibrillary acid protein (GFAP) expression in the cortex. The 500 mg/kg dose reduced GFAP expression in the hippocampus. This data suggests that nicotinamide has substantial preclinical efficacy for TBI, and there appears to be some differences in the ability of the doses to improve performance in the MWM.
We review the emerging applications of functional and structural neuroimaging techniques for the assessment of patients with disorders of consciousness. Measurements of brain function from patients in the vegetative state (VS) and minimally conscious state (MCS) are compared, and a conceptual organization is developed that suggests models of brain mechanisms associated with different functional levels of recovery. We emphasize developing strategies to place complex brain injuries on a more equal footing using global and regional quantification of resting or activated brain activity using functional imaging techniques alongside more detailed structural assessments of neuronal integrity and axonal connectivity now available. Preliminary studies from several investigative groups suggest that some MCS patients may harbor a functional reserve in the form of recruitable cerebral networks. These findings support developing systematic characterizations of the severely injured brain and suggest that some patients may benefit from improved diagnostic assessments.
Valproic acid (VPA) reduces latent human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) reservoirs by activating resting CD4+ cells. This retrospective case-control study (n = 30) examined effects of VPA on markers of HIV progression. VPA was not associated with changes in cerebrospinal fluid viral loads (VL), plasma VL, or neuropsychological performance. VPA patients had a trend towards lower CD4+ cells (P = .08) at follow-up. Concurrent antiretrovirals did not alter these relationships. VPA does not induce viremia or promote disease progression and may be safe for clinical intervention.

Transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 (TRPV1) can be activated by multiple chemical and physical stimuli such as capsaicin, anandamide, protons, and heat. Capsaicin interacts with the binding pocket constituted by transmembrane regions 3 and 4, whereas protons act through residues in the prepore loop of TRPV1. Here, we report on characterization of polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies to the prepore loop of TRPV1. A rabbit anti-rat TRPV1 polyclonal antibody (Ab-156H) acted as a full antagonist of proton activation (IC(50) values for pH 5 and 5.5 were 364.68 +/- 29.78 and 28.31 +/- 6.30 nM, respectively) and as a partial antagonist of capsaicin, heat, and pH 6 potentiated chemical ligand (anandamide and capsaicin) activation (50-79% inhibition). Ab-156H antagonism of TRPV1 is not affected by the conformation of the capsaicin-binding pocket because it is equally potent at wild-type (capsaicin-sensitive) rat TRPV1 and its T550I mutant (capsaicin-insensitive). With the goal of generating monoclonal antagonist antibodies to the prepore region of human TRPV1, we used a recently developed rabbit immunization protocol. Although rabbit polyclonal antiserum blocked human TRPV1 activation, rabbit monoclonal antibodies (identified on the basis of selective binding to Chinese hamster ovary cells expressing human TRPV1) did not block activation by either capsaicin or protons. Thus, rabbit polyclonal antibodies against rat and human TRPV1 prepore region seem to partially lock or stabilize the channel in the closed state, whereas rabbit anti-human TRPV1 monoclonal antibodies bind to the prepore region but do not lock or stabilize the channel conformation.
The biarylpropylsulfonamide class of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) potentiators represented by N-2-(4-(4-cyanophenol)phenol)propyl-2-propanesulfonamide (LY404187) and (R)-4'-[1-fluoro-1-methyl-2-(propane-2-sulfonylamino)-ethyl]-biphenyl-4-carboxylic acid methylamide (LY503430) are positive, allosteric AMPA receptor activators, which enhance AMPA receptor-mediated neurotransmission by reducing desensitization of the ion channel. Although these compounds have efficacy in in vivo rodent models of cognition, depression, and Parkinson's disease, little is known about biochemical pathways activated by these agents. Given the well established regulation of the nitric oxide/cGMP pathway by excitatory neurotransmission, the current study characterized AMPA receptor potentiator-mediated cGMP response in mouse cerebellum. Acute treatment by both LY404187 and LY503430 [2.0, 5.0, or 10 mg/kg subcutaneously (s.c.)] elevated basal cerebellar cGMP levels in a dose-dependent manner. Pretreatment with the noncompetitive, allosteric AMPA receptor-selective antagonist 7H-1,3-dioxolo[4,5-h][2,3]benzodiazepine-7-carboxamide, 5-(4-aminophenyl)-8,9-dihydro-N,8-dimethyl-monohydrochloride-(9CI) (GYKI 53655) [3.0 mg/kg intraperitoneally (i.p.)], completely blocked the effect of LY404187, demonstrating that activation of AMPA receptors induces cGMP levels. Interestingly, pretreatment with the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) open channel blocker dizocilpine (0.3 and 1.0 mg/kg i.p.) also abolished the AMPA receptor potentiator-mediated cGMP accumulation, indicating that activation of AMPA receptors leads to NMDA receptor-mediated transmission involved in cGMP regulation. Pharmacological augmentation of the endogenous glutamate tone via the alkaloid harmaline (20-60 mg/kg i.p.) synergized with AMPA potentiator activity and provided further direct evidence of in vivo allosteric activation of AMPA receptors by LY404187. The synergism between harmaline and LY404187 was specific, since cGMP accumulation induced by foot-shock stress was not augmented by the AMPA receptor potentiator. Taken together, these data indicate that the cGMP system may play an important role in pharmacological efficacy of the biarylpropylsulfonamide class of AMPA receptor potentiators.
Antidepressant-like effects of metabotropic glutamate (mGlu)5 receptor antagonists have been reported previously. We now provide definitive identification of mGlu5 receptors as a target for these effects through the combined use of selective antagonists and mice with targeted deletion of the mGlu5 protein. In these experiments, the mGlu5 receptor antagonists 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)-pyridine (MPEP) and the more selective and metabolically stable analog 3-[(2-methyl-1,3-thiazol-4-yl)ethynyl]-pyridine (MTEP) decreased immobility in the mouse forced swim test, a test predictive of antidepressant efficacy in humans. mGlu5 receptor knockout mice had a phenotype in the forced swim test that was congruent with the effects of receptor blockade; mGlu5 receptor knockout mice were significantly less immobile than their wild-type counterparts. Consistent with mGlu5 receptor mediation of the antidepressant-like effects of MPEP, the effects of MPEP were not observed in mGlu5 receptor knockout mice, whereas comparable effects of the tricyclic antidepressant imiprimine remained active in the mutant mice. MPEP and imiprimine resulted in a synergistic antidepressant-like effect in the forced swim test. The drug interaction was not likely because of increased levels of drugs in the brain, suggesting a pharmacodynamic interaction of mGlu5 and monoaminergic systems in this effect. Thus, the present findings substantiate the hypothesis that mGlu5 receptor antagonism is associated with antidepressant-like effects. This mechanism may not only provide a novel approach to the therapeutic management of depressive disorders but also may be useful in the augmentation of effects of traditional antidepressant agents.
Soluble guanylyl cyclase (sGC) is a target enzyme for endogenous nitric oxide (NO), and it converts GTP to cyclic GMP (guanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate) as part of a cascade that results in physiological processes such as smooth muscle relaxation, neurotransmission, and inhibition of platelet aggregation. Here we examine a representative of the novel class sCG activators, A-778935 ((+/-)-cis-3-[2-(2,2-dimethyl-propylsulfanyl)-pyridin-3-yl]-N-(3-hydroxy-cyclohexyl)-acrylamide). A-778935 activated sGC synergistically with sodium nitroprusside (SNP) over a wide range of concentration, inducing up to 420-fold activation. A specific inhibitor of sGC, ODQ (1H-[1,2,4]-oxadiazolo[4,3-alpha]quinoxalin-1-one), did not block basal sGC activity, but competitively inhibited the activation by A-778935. A-778935, with or without SNP, did not activate heme-deficient sGC, indicating that the activation of sGC by A-778935 is fully heme-dependent. A-778935 increased intracellular cGMP level dose-dependently in smooth muscle cells. In the presence of 1 microM SNP, a lower concentration of A-778935 increased cGMP than A-778935 alone, and the cGMP concentration reached the same level at 100 microM of A-778935. A-778935 relaxed cavernosum tissue strips in a dose-dependent manner; and in the presence of 1 microM SNP, A-778935 relaxed the strips more potently, shifting the dose-response curve to the left. This novel activator of sGC may have potential efficacy for the treatment of a variety of disorders associated with reduced NO signaling.
Anatomical studies have described inhibitory synaptic contacts on apical dendrites, and an abundant number of GABAergic synapses on the somata and proximal dendrites of CA1 pyramidal cells of the hippocampus. The number of inhibitory contacts decreases dramatically with distance from the soma, but the local electrophysiological characterization of these synapses at their site of origin in the dendrites is missing. We directly recorded dendritic GABA receptor-mediated inhibitory synaptic events in adult mouse hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons and compared them to excitatory synaptic currents recorded at the same sites. Miniature GABAergic events were evoked using localized application of a hyperosmotic solution to the apical dendrites in the vicinity of the dendritic whole-cell recording pipette. Glutamatergic synaptic events were blocked by kynurenic acid, leaving picrotoxin-sensitive IPSCs. We measured the amplitude and kinetic properties of mIPSCs at the soma and at three different dendritic locations. The amplitude of mIPSCs recorded at the various sites was similar along the somato-dendritic axis. The rise- and decay-times of local mIPSCs were also independent of the location of the synapses. The frequency of mIPSCs was 5 Hz at the soma, in contrast to &lt; 0.5 Hz at dendritic sites, which could be increased to 10-20 Hz and 6-10 Hz, respectively, by our hyperosmotic stimulation protocol. Miniature glutamatergic events were evoked with the same protocol after blocking inhibitory synapses by bicucculine. The measured amplitudes increased along the somato-dendritic axis proportionally with their distance from the soma. The measured kinetic properties were independent of location. Consistent with the idea that IPSCs may have a restricted local effect in the dendrites, our data show a lack of distance-dependent scaling of miniature inhibitory synaptic events, in contrast to the scaling of excitatory events recorded at the same sites.
Glutamate is thought to be the main neurotransmitter at the synapse between the type I vestibular hair cell and its cognate calyx afferent. The present study was designed to identify the type of glutamate receptors involved in neurotransmission at this unusual synapse. Immunocytochemistry showed that AMPA GluR2, NMDA NR1 and NR2A/B subunits of the glutamate receptors were confined to the synaptic contact. We then examined the electrical activity at calyx terminals using direct electrophysiological recordings from intact dendritic terminals in explanted turtle posterior crista. We found that sodium-based action potentials support a background discharge that could be modulated by the mechanical stimulation of the hair bundle of the sensory cells. These activities were prevented by blocking both the mechano-electrical transduction channels and L-type voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels involved in synaptic transmission. Although pharmacological analysis revealed that NMDA receptors could operate, our results show that AMPA receptors are mainly involved in synaptic neurotransmission. We conclude that although both AMPA and NMDA glutamate receptor subunits are present at the calyx synapse, only AMPA receptors appear to be involved in the synaptic transmission between the type I vestibular hair cell and the calyx afferent.
The molecular identity of platelet Ca(2+) entry pathways is controversial. Furthermore, the extent to which Ca(2+)-permeable ion channels are functional in these tiny, anucleate cells is difficult to assess by direct electrophysiological measurements. Recent work has highlighted how the primary megakaryocyte represents a bona fide surrogate for studies of platelet signalling, including patch clamp recordings of ionic conductances. We have now screened for all known members of the transient receptor potential (TRP) family of non-selective cation channels in murine megakaryocytes following individual selection of these rare marrow cells using glass micropipettes. RT-PCR detected messages for TRPC6 and TRPC1, which have been reported in platelets and megakaryocytic cell lines, and TRPM1, TRPM2 and TRPM7, which to date have not been demonstrated in cells of megakaryocytic/platelet lineage. Electrophysiological recordings demonstrated the presence of functional TRPM7, a constitutively active cation channel sensitive to intracellular Mg(2+), and TRPM2, an ADP-ribose-dependent cation channel activated by oxidative stress. In addition, the electrophysiological and pharmacological properties of the non-selective cation channels stimulated by the physiological agonist ADP are consistent with a major role for TRPC6 in this G-protein-coupled receptor-dependent Ca(2+) influx pathway. This study defines for the first time the principal TRP channels within the primary megakaryocyte, which represent candidates for Ca(2+) influx pathways activated by a diverse range of stimuli in the platelet and megakaryocyte.
N-type Ca(V)2.2 calcium channels localize to presynaptic nerve terminals of nociceptors where they control neurotransmitter release. Nociceptive neurons express a unique set of ion channels and receptors important for optimizing their role in transmission of noxious stimuli. Included among these is a structurally and functionally distinct N-type calcium channel splice isoform, Ca(V)2.2e[37a], expressed in a subset of nociceptors and with limited expression in other parts of the nervous system. Ca(V)2.2[e37a] arises from the mutually exclusive replacement of e37a for e37b in the C-terminus of Ca(V)2.2 mRNA. N-type current densities in nociceptors that express a combination of Ca(V)2.2e[37a] and Ca(V)2.2e[37b] mRNAs are significantly larger compared to cells that express only Ca(V)2.2e[37b]. Here we show that e37a supports increased expression of functional N-type channels and an increase in channel open time as compared to Ca(V)2.2 channels that contain e37b. To understand how e37a affects N-type currents we compared macroscopic and single-channel ionic currents as well as gating currents in tsA201 cells expressing Ca(V)2.2e[37a] and Ca(V)2.2e[37b]. When activated, Ca(V)2.2e[37a] channels remain open for longer and are expressed at higher density than Ca(V)2.2e[37b] channels. These unique features of the Ca(V)2.2e[37a] isoform combine to augment substantially the amount of calcium that enters cells in response to action potentials. Our studies of the e37a/e37b splice site reveal a multifunctional domain in the C-terminus of Ca(V)2.2 that regulates the overall activity of N-type calcium channels in nociceptors.
M-current (I(M)) plays a key role in regulating neuronal excitability. Mutations in Kv7/KCNQ subunits, the molecular correlates of I(M), are associated with a familial human epilepsy syndrome. Kv7/KCNQ subunits are widely expressed, and I(M) has been recorded in somata of several types of neurons, but the subcellular distribution of M-channels remains elusive. By combining field-potential, whole-cell and intracellular recordings from area CA1 in rat hippocampal slices, and computational modelling, we provide evidence for functional M-channels in unmyelinated axons in the brain. Our data indicate that presynaptic M-channels can regulate axonal excitability and synaptic transmission, provided the axons are depolarized into the I(M) activation range (beyond approximately -65 mV). Here, such depolarization was achieved by increasing the extracellular K(+) concentration ([K(+)](o)). Extracellular recordings in the presence of moderately elevated [K(+)](o) (7-11 mm), showed that the specific M-channel blocker XE991 reduced the amplitude of the presynaptic fibre volley and the field EPSP in a [K(+)](o)-dependent manner, both in stratum radiatum and in stratum lacknosum moleculare. The M-channel opener, retigabine, had opposite effects. The higher the [K(+)](o), the greater the effects of XE991 and retigabine. Similar pharmacological modulation of EPSPs recorded intracellularly from CA1 pyramidal neurons, while blocking postsynaptic K(+) channels with intracellular Cs(+), confirmed that active M-channels are located presynaptically. Computational analysis with an axon model showed that presynaptic I(M) can control Na(+) channel inactivation and thereby affect the presynaptic action potential amplitude and Ca(2+) influx, provided the axonal membrane potential is sufficiently depolarized. Finally, we compared the effects of blocking I(M) on the spike after-depolarization and bursting in CA3 pyramidal neuron somata versus their axons. In standard [K(+)](o) (2.5 mm), XE991 increased the ADP and promoted burst firing at the soma, but not in the axons. However, I(M) contributed to the refractory period in the axons when spikes were broadened by a low dose 4-aminopyridine (200 microm). Our results indicate that functional Kv7/KCNQ/M-channels are present in unmyelinated axons in the brain, and that these channels may have contrasting effects on excitability depending on their subcellular localization.
Pyramidal neurons in the subiculum typically display either bursting or regular-spiking behaviour. Although this classification into two neuronal classes is well described, it is unknown how these two classes of neurons contribute to the integration of input to the subiculum. Here, we report that bursting neurons possess a hyperpolarization-activated cation current (I(h)) that is two-fold larger (conductance, 5.3 +/- 0.5 nS) than in regular-spiking neurons (2.2 +/- 0.6 nS), whereas I(h) exhibits similar voltage-dependent and kinetic properties in both classes of neurons. Bursting and regular-spiking neurons display similar morphology. The difference in I(h) between the two classes of neurons is not responsible for the distinct firing patterns, as neither pharmacological blockade of I(h) nor enhancement of I(h) using a dynamic clamp affects the qualitative firing patterns. Instead, the difference in I(h) between bursting and regular-spiking neurons determines the temporal integration of evoked synaptic input from the CA1 area. In response to stimulation at 50 Hz, bursting neurons, with a large I(h), show approximately 50% less temporal summation than regular-spiking neurons. The amount of temporal summation in both neuronal classes is equal after pharmacological blockade of I(h). A computer simulation model of a subicular neuron with the properties of either a bursting or a regular-spiking neuron confirmed the pivotal role of I(h) in temporal integration of synaptic input. These data suggest that in the subicular network, bursting neurons are better suited to discriminate the content of high-frequency input, such as that occurring during gamma oscillations, than regular-spiking neurons.
During the last 20 years, optical imaging methods - either alone or in combination with other recording techniques - has proven a fruitful approach to explore both the physiological and the functional aspects of activity-evoked hemodynamic responses in cortex. One of the main advantages of optical imaging consists in its high spatio-temporal resolution (in the order of few microns and milliseconds), allowing not only to unambiguously distinguish between activity patterns relating to the underlying functional architecture and those originating from the activation of medium/large blood vessels, but also to investigate the various activity-evoked hemodynamic processes at very fine detail. Here, we briefly review the principal findings obtained by optical imaging about the spatio-temporal properties of the various hemodynamic responses in cortex, i.e., changes in blood-oxygenation, blood-volume, and, to some extent, blood-flow. We also discuss the implications of those findings for non-invasive high-resolution functional brain imaging, in particular for fMRI. Finally, we underscore the importance of novel approaches for high-resolution blood-flow imaging, in the context of the need to gather information at fine spatial detail about the blood-flow response, necessary to constrain the multiple free parameters of hemodynamic response models.
Developing methods characterizing the dynamics of synchronization in large ensemble of electromagnetic brain signals has become an important issue. In this article, we review a recently introduced method for analyzing multivariate phase synchronization in brain signals. The approach is based on the equivalence between phase locking and frequency locking in narrow band signals, which allows tracking multivariate phase synchronization in the time-frequency domain as periods of common frequency among multiple channels. The method is illustrated with simulations of multivariate phase dynamics in coupled oscillators and real multichannel electro- and magnetoencephalographic data recorded prior and during epileptic seizures. The reviewed results support the relevance of this method in the context of brain synchronization, in particular to track transient collective dynamics fluctuating in time, frequency and space.
Schizophrenia patients were known to have oculomotor abnormalities for decades and several studies had found antisaccade impairment to be a biological marker of schizophrenia. In this study, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to investigate the neural circuits responsible for antisaccade deficits in schizophrenia. Ten normal controls and 10 DSM-IV schizophrenia patients performed antisaccade tasks and control tasks during fMRI. Data were analyzed and task-specific activations were identified using Statistical Parametric Mapping (SPM-2). In normal subjects, antisaccade tasks activated bilateral frontal eye fields, supplementary eye fields, inferior frontal gyrus, superior parietal lobules, inferior parietal lobules, occipital visual cortex, cerebellum, thalamus, and lentiform nuclei (P&lt;0.001). By contrast, schizophrenia patients failed to show activation in bilateral lentiform nucleus, bilateral thalamus, and left inferior frontal gyrus during antisaccade performance. Our findings suggest that schizophrenic antisaccade deficits are associated with dysfunction of fronto-striatal-thalamo-cortical circuits previously demonstrated to be responsible for suppression of the reflexive saccade. Left inferior frontal gyrus, which was known to be responsible for response inhibition on &quot;go/no-go&quot; testing, also plays an important role in schizophrenic antisaccade deficit.




The PC oscilloscope, an external data acquisition unit connected to a laptop computer, is an option worth considering for neuroscience teaching labs that include electrophysiology. This article describes the available technology and reviews products on the market as of mid-2006.
Hope College is an undergraduate liberal arts college with an enrollment of approximately 3,000 students. In the spring of 2005, we began to offer an interdisciplinary neuroscience minor program that is open to all students. The objective of this program is to introduce students to the field of neuroscience, and to do so in such a way as to broaden students' disciplinary perspectives, enhance communication and quantitative skills, and increase higher-level reasoning skills by encouraging collaboration among students who have different disciplinary backgrounds. This is a research-based program that culminates in a one-year capstone research course. Here we present the story of the program development at Hope College, including a description of our newly developed curriculum, our initial assessment data, and the lessons we have learned in developing this program.
The concept of collaboration is central to many scientific endeavors. Here we present a model for collaborative research between laboratory courses in behavioral neuroscience at different institutions (or for that matter, multiple classrooms at a single institution). This course design engages undergraduate students in novel scientific research inside the classroom, and in discussion of that research between classrooms. In addition to exposing students to scientific collaboration, teaching these courses in tandem allows for the sharing of a number of resources while allowing collection of potentially publishable data and training students to conduct continuing independent research. For the 2003 and 2004 school years, we have run in collaboration the Laboratory in Brain and Behavior course at Colby College and the Laboratory in Behavioral Neuroscience: Learning and Memory course at Bowdoin College. The students enrolled in these courses have conducted primary, novel research projects designed by the instructors using animal subjects. Students learn experimental design, and surgery, behavioral testing, and histological techniques. Enrollments are limited in these courses, so having both groups of students perform the same protocols increases the number of subjects in these studies, and therefore, the statistical power of the experiment. The physical distance between the schools requires that technology be used to bring students in the two courses together. We have used threaded discussion groups accessible to students at both schools for everyday exchange of methodological information and have used videoconferencing for &quot;lab meetings&quot; addressing methodological issues and data analysis.
Functional neuroimaging represents an important technique for the study of the brain. However, the skills necessary for collecting, processing, and analyzing functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data sets are complex and relatively few undergraduate programs offer students an opportunity to acquire these skills or to observe functional neuroimaging. We report here on our experiences working with functional neuroimaging in an undergraduate laboratory course and suggest resources for the implementation of a similar exercise in a comparable setting. This exercise is structured so that four class meetings are devoted to functional neuroimaging. During these sessions, we discuss the basics of fMRI, study design, the advantages and disadvantages of this technique for the study of brain function as well as a general overview of data processing and analysis. Due to the college's proximity to a medical school, we are able to offer students an opportunity to observe functional neuroimaging sessions (however, this component is not critical for the completion of this exercise). Two final class sessions are devoted to data processing and presentation as well as writing up the experimental results. The exercise culminates in a paper based on the American Psychological Association format for a small number of subjects. At the conclusion of the exercise, students were surveyed to assess their impressions of the lab sessions. The results from these surveys indicate that students found this portion of the laboratory course to be a very positive experience. While this lab exercise does require some initial set up, we believe it stimulates the development of critical thinking skills with a technique that is used increasingly in neuroscience research. Both print and online resources are suggested to assist faculty in setting up a similar exercise.
Neurophysiological techniques are widely applied to animals, both in the search as a monitor for adequacy of anaesthesia, and studies to assess the efficacy of analgesic agents. Laboratory animals have been extensively used in models to investigate pain in man. However a substantial number of studies have also used neurophysiological techniques to increase knowledge of pain in specific animal species, with the aim of improving animal welfare. This review provides an overview of neurophysiological techniques involving the brain that have been used in the assessment of pain in animals. An explanation of the methodology of EEG recording, with particular emphasis on veterinary studies, is given. Neurophysiological models developed to assess pain in different species are described, and their relevance to advancements in animal welfare or best clinical practice indicated.




Recent empirical findings have contributed valuable mechanistic information in support of a regulated de novo biosynthetic pathway for chemically authentic morphine in animal cells, with many similarities to the extensively characterized multi-enzyme plant pathway in opium poppy (Papaver somniferum). The present review elaborates an evidence-based model of cellular morphine expression that reflects a coalescence of these recent biochemical data with historical data gleaned from over thirty years of neurochemical/neuropharmacological investigation into the etiology and biological significance of dopamine (DA)-related heterocyclic conjugate molecules, termed tetrahydroisoquinoline (TIQ) or benzylisoquinoline (BIQ) alkaloids, and with outstanding work completed over the last decade that has elucidated biochemical and molecular bases of morphine and related isoquinoline alkaloid expression in plant systems. In essence, we are now afforded a rare window of opportunity to firmly establish essential biochemical linkages between plant and animal biosynthetic pathways that have been conserved throughout evolution.

For early humans, acquisition of food by hunting and/or gathering was a hunger-driven process requiring vigilance and (often) strenuous physical effort during daylight hours. To sustain such activities, hunter-gatherers also needed periodic rest and sleep-pursuits most effectively undertaken at night. In recent years, research has given us new insights into the physiologic underpinnings of these behaviors. Specifically, evidence has been uncovered indicating that the homeostatic regulation of food intake on the one hand and that of sleep on the other hand, are intertwined. Thus, carefully performed studies of eating behavior in rats indicate that duration of sleep after ingestion of a meal is closely correlated to the meal's energy content. In 1999, it was discovered that mice and dogs functionally deficient in the appetite-stimulating hormone, hypocretin-1, become narcoleptic, suggesting the existence of a &quot;hard-wired&quot; connection between regulation of hunger and satiety and regulation of sleep. Administered into the nucleus accumbens shell, hypocretin-1 induces feeding and locomotor activity in Sprague-Dawley rats. Hypocretin neurons in the hypothalamus are responsive to metabolic cues capable of signaling nutritional status. The suprachiasmatic nucleus, the body's principal circadian clock, exchanges information with the hypocretin system about the light/dark cycle and the body's metabolic condition. Circadian Clock mutant mice exhibit an attenuated diurnal feeding rhythm and become hyperphagic and obese. Both disruption of the circadian cycle and sleep deprivation can affect energy balance and, over time, may bring about substantial changes in body composition. Although there is growing evidence that interleukin-6 and several other proinflammatory cytokines are &quot;sleep factors&quot; that also affect energy balance, any possible role they might have in coordinating sleep/wakefulness with food-motivated behavior awaits clarification. Yet, the evidence is increasingly strong that the neurophysiologic and metabolic mechanisms responsible for the control of food-seeking behavior and the control of sleep and wakefulness are coordinated so that hunger and vigilance are paired during the daylight hours, and satiety and sleep are paired during darkness. The hypothalamic neuronal system that links these mechanisms is predominantly, but not exclusively, hypocretinergic, and is responsive to the suprachiasmatic nucleus circadian pacemaker and to certain metabolic signals of depletion and repletion.


In cerebellar Purkinje cells, Kv3 potassium channels are indispensable for firing at high frequencies. In Purkinje cells from young mice (P4-P7), Kv3 currents, recorded in whole-cell in slices, activated at -30 mV, with rapid activation and deactivation kinetics, and they were partially blocked by blood depressing substance-I (BDS-I, 1 microM). At positive potentials, Kv3 currents were slowly but completely inactivating, while the recovery from inactivation was about eightfold slower, suggesting that a previous firing activity or a small change of the resting potential could in principle accumulate inactivated Kv3 channels, thereby finely tuning Kv3 current availability for subsequent action potentials. Single-cell RT-PCR analysis showed the expression by all Purkinje cells (n=10 for each subunit) of Kv3.1, Kv3.3 and Kv3.4 mRNA, while Kv3.2 was not expressed. These results add to the framework for interpreting the physiological function and the molecular determinants of Kv3 currents in cerebellar Purkinje cells.
Real-time PCR assays using 3'-minor groove binder (MGB) or Taqman probes are widely used for clinical virological testing and mutation/polymorphism detection. We compared a 3'-MGB probe to a conventional Taqman probe for linearity, sensitivity, specificity and dynamic range. The performance of the two assays was compared using plasmids containing different mismatches or using human genomic DNA as a template. Comparable linearity and sensitivity were observed for the MGB and the Taqman probe assays. Using standard conditions, none of the assays were sequence-specific. Up to five mismatches generated a detectable signal in the Taqman probe assay. The performance of the Taqman as well as the MGB probe assay was influenced by the complexity of the template, the latter, however, to a lesser degree. Overall, these results highlight the advantages of the MGB probe over the Taqman probe regarding mismatch discrimination, but suggest that optimization of reaction conditions and verification of the specificity are necessary also for MGB probes.
For synapses to form and function, neurotransmitter receptors must be recruited to a location on the postsynaptic cell in direct apposition to presynaptic neurotransmitter release. However, once receptors are inserted into the postsynaptic membrane, they are not fixed in place but are continually exchanged between synaptic and extrasynaptic regions, and they cycle between the surface and intracellular compartments. This article highlights and compares the current knowledge about the dynamics of acetylcholine receptors at the vertebrate peripheral neuromuscular junction and AMPA, N-methyl-D-aspartate, and gamma-aminobutyric acid receptors in central synapses.
Risperidone displays a novel mechanism of antagonism of the h5-HT7 receptor. Pretreatment of the cells with 5 or 20 nM risperidone, followed by removal of the drug from the media, renders the 5-HT7 receptors unresponsive to 10 microM 5-HT for at least 24 h. Thus, risperidone seems to be producing a rapid, long-lasting inactivation of the h5-HT7 receptor. Whole-cell radioligand binding studies indicate that risperidone interacts in an irreversible or pseudo-irreversible manner with the h5-HT7 receptor, thus producing the inactivation. Internalization of the h5-HT7 receptor was not detected by monitoring green fluorescent protein-labeled fluorescent forms of the h5-HT7 receptor exposed to 20 nM risperidone. Ten other antagonists were tested for h5-HT7-inactivating properties, and only 9-OH-risperidone and methiothepin were found to demonstrate the same anomalous properties as risperidone. These results indicate that the h5-HT7 receptor may possess unique structural features that allow certain drugs to induce a conformation resulting in an irreversible interaction in the intact membrane environment. This may indicate that the h5-HT7 receptor is part of a subfamily of G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) possessing this property or that many GPCRs have the potential to be irreversibly blocked, but only select drugs can induce this effect. At the very least, the possibility that highly prescribed drugs, such as risperidone, are irreversibly antagonizing GPCR function in vivo is noteworthy.
Evidence indicates that blockade of cannabinoid receptors increases acetylcholine (ACh) release in brain cortical regions. Although it is assumed that this type of effect is mediated through CB1 receptor (CB1R) antagonism, several in vitro functional studies recently have suggested non-CB1R involvement. In addition, neither the precise neuroanatomical site nor the exact mechanisms underlying this effect are known. We thoroughly examined these issues using a combination of systemic and local administration of CB1R antagonists, different methods of in vivo microdialysis, CB1R knockout (KO) mice, tissue measurements of ACh, and immunochemistry. First, we showed that systemic injections of the CB1R antagonists N-(piperidin-1-yl)-5-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-4-methyl-1H-pyrazole-3-carboximide hydrochloride (SR-141716A) and N-(piperidin-1-yl)-5-(4-iodophenyl)-1-(2, 4-dichlorophenyl)-4-methyl-1H-pyrazole-3-carboxamide (AM251) dose-dependently increased hippocampal ACh efflux. Likewise, local hippocampal, but not septal, infusions of SR141716A or AM251 increased hippocampal ACh release. It is noteworthy that the stimulatory effects of systemically administered CB1R antagonists on hippocampal ACh release were completely abolished in CB1R KO mice. CB1R KO mice had similar basal but higher stress-enhanced hippocampal ACh levels compared with wild-type controls. It is interesting that dopamine D1 receptor antagonism counteracted the stimulatory effect of CB1R blockade on hippocampal ACh levels. Finally, immunohistochemical methods revealed that a high proportion of CB1R-positive nerve terminals were found in hippocampus and confirmed the colocalization of CB1 receptors with cholinergic and dopaminergic nerve terminals. In conclusion, hippocampal ACh release may specifically be controlled through CB1Rs located on both cholinergic and dopaminergic neuronal projections, and CB1R antagonism increases hippocampal ACh release, probably through both a direct disinhibition of ACh release and an indirect increase in dopaminergic neurotransmission at the D1 receptors.
The GABA receptor (GABABR) is a class C G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) that functions as an obligate heterodimer, composed of two heptahelical subunits, GABABR subunit 1 (R1) and GABABR subunit 2 (R2). In this study, we generated and pharmacologically characterized constitutively active GABABR mutants as novel tools to explore the molecular mechanisms underlying receptor function. A single amino acid substitution, T290K, in the R1 agonist binding domain results in ligand-independent signaling when this mutant subunit is coexpressed with wild-type R2. Introduction of a Y690V mutation in the putative G protein-coupling domain of R2 is sufficient to confer moderate constitutive activity when this subunit is expressed alone. Activity of the Y690V mutant can be markedly enhanced with coexpression of wild-type R1. Coexpression of both mutant subunits (R1-T290K and R2-Y690K) leads to a further increase in basal signaling. Potencies of the full agonists R-(+)-beta-(aminomethyl)-4-chlorobenzenepropanoic acid hydrochloride (baclofen) and GABA are increased at the constitutively active versus the corresponding wild-type receptors. The mutant GABABR variants provided a sensitive probe enabling detection of inverse or partial agonist activity of molecules previously considered neutral antagonists. Our studies using constitutively active isoforms provide independent support for a model of GABABR function that takes into account 1) ligand binding by R1, 2) signal transduction by R2, and 3) modulation of R2-induced function by R1. Furthermore, we demonstrate that certain hallmark features of constitutive activity as originally established with class A GPCRs (e.g., enhanced agonist potency and affinity), are more generally applicable, as suggested by our finding with a class C heterodimeric receptor.
Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) containing alpha6 subunits are typically found at aminergic nerve endings where they play important roles in nicotine addiction and Parkinson's disease. alpha6* AChRs usually contain beta3 subunits. beta3 subunits are presumed to assemble only in the accessory subunit position within AChRs where they do not participate in forming acetylcholine binding sites. Assembly of subunits in the accessory position may be a critical final step in assembly of mature AChRs. Human alpha6 AChRs subtypes were permanently transfected into human tsA201 human embryonic kidney (HEK) cell lines. alpha6beta2beta3 and alpha6beta4beta3 cell lines were found to express much larger amounts of AChRs and were more sensitive to nicotine-induced increase in the amount of AChRs than were alpha6beta2 or alpha6beta4 cell lines. The increased sensitivity to nicotine-induced up-regulation was due not to a beta3-induced increase in affinity for nicotine but probably to a direct effect on assembly of AChR subunits. HEK cells express only a small amount of mature alpha6beta2 AChRs, but many of these subunits are on the cell surface. This contrasts with Xenopus laevis oocytes, which express a large amount of incorrectly assembled alpha6beta2 subunits that bind cholinergic ligands but form large amorphous intracellular aggregates. Monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) were made to the alpha6 and beta3 subunits to aid in the characterization of these AChRs. The alpha6 mAbs bind to epitopes C-terminal of the extracellular domain. These data demonstrate that both cell type and the accessory subunit beta3 can play important roles in alpha6* AChR expression, stability, and up-regulation by nicotine.
Progesterone receptor (PR) stimulation promotes survival in human and rat periovulatory granulosa cells. PR antagonists, Org 31710 and RU 486, both increase apoptosis and decrease cholesterol synthesis in these cells. The decrease in cholesterol synthesis also causes decreased synthesis of other products branching from the cholesterol synthesis pathway, including substrates for protein prenylation. In this study we focus on the link between apoptosis and prenylation in human periovulatory granulosa cells. A decreased cholesterol synthesis and increased apoptosis was verified in experiments with human periovulatory granulosa cells treated with the PR antagonists Org 31710 or RU 486 by measuring caspase-3/7 activity and incorporation of 14C-acetate into cholesterol and progesterone. Correspondingly, specific inhibition of cholesterol synthesis in periovulatory human granulosa cells using HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (lovastatin or simvastatin) increased apoptosis, measured as caspase-3/7 activity. The increase in apoptosis caused by simvastatin or Org 31710 was partially reversed by addition of the protein prenylation precursors farnesol or geranylgeraniol. In addition, the prenylation inhibitors FTI R115777 and GGTI 2147 increased apoptosis in these cells. In conclusion our data suggest that PR antagonists increase apoptosis and reduce cholesterol synthesis in periovulatory granulosa cells and that the resulting depletion of substrates for protein prenylation may contribute to the increased apoptosis sensitivity.
A pathophysiological feature of dystonia is reduced inhibition at various levels of the nervous system, which may be detected in clinically unaffected body parts. Chronic deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the globus pallidus internus (GPi) has emerged as an effective treatment for primary torsion dystonia (PTD), although its mechanism of action and impact on inhibitory abnormalities in dystonia are unknown. We sought to understand the effect of GPi DBS on brainstem excitability in patients with PTD. We measured the blink reflex from orbicularis oculi in response to paired electrical stimulation of the supraorbital nerve at interstimulus intervals of 500 and 1,000 milliseconds in 10 patients with PTD before and at intervals of 1, 3, and 6 months after bilateral GPi DBS and in 10 healthy subjects. Patients were clinically evaluated using the Burke-Fahn-Marsden dystonia rating scale. We found R2 inhibition was significantly decreased in PTD patients compared with control subjects and progressively increased after GPi DBS, which correlated with clinical improvement in dystonia. We conclude that GPi DBS for PTD results in functional reorganization of the nervous system, which includes a long-term increase in brainstem inhibition.
Medicines and surgical interventions improve the quality of life of Parkinson's disease (PD) patients. These are still expensive options and are unaffordable to those living in developing countries. Managing PD in Indians who have a low annual gross national income (GNI; 450-540 US dollars) and for whom only a few (3%) have health insurance is a challenge. We interviewed 175 consecutive PD patients regarding health insurance and money spent for treatment. The annual income of nearly half the patients was less than rupees 50,000 (1,148.63 US dollars). Patients in this study spend nearly 16% to 41.7% of the average Indian GNI to buy medicines. Costs of treating PD in India are lower than those in developed nations but are still out of reach for most Indian patients.
In Parkinson's disease (PD), levodopa and subthalamic nucleus (STN) stimulation lead to major improvement in motor symptoms. Effects of both treatments on cognition and affective status are less well understood. Motor, cognitive, and affective symptoms may relate to the dysfunctioning of parallel cortico-striatal loops. The aim of this study was to assess cognition, behavior, and mood, with and without both treatments in the same group of PD patients. A group of 22 nondemented PD patients was included in this study. Patients were tested twice before surgery (off and on levodopa) and twice 3 months after surgery (OFF and ON STN stimulation, off levodopa). Cognitive and affective effects of STN stimulation and levodopa had some common, but also different, effects. STN stimulation improved performance on the planning test, associated with the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. However, the treatments had opposite effects on tests associated with the orbitofrontal cortex; specifically, levodopa impaired while STN stimulation improved performance on the extinction phase of a reversal/extinction task. Acutely, both treatments improved motivation and decreased fatigue and anxiety. On chronic treatment (3 months after surgery), depression improved, whereas apathy worsened 3 months after surgery. To conclude, there were significant but contrasting effects of levodopa and STN stimulation on cognition and affective functions.
Specific variants of Leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) have been shown to associate with Parkinson's disease (PD). Several mutations have been found in PD populations from different parts of the world. We investigated the occurrence of three mutations (R1441G/C/H, G2019S, and I2020T) in our Swedish case-control material and identified four carriers of the G2019S mutation in 284 PD cases and 1 95-year-old carrier in 305 controls. The other two variants were absent in our material. We conclude that the LRRK2 G2019S mutation constitutes a significant factor for PD in the Swedish population and that it is not completely penetrant.
The aim of this descriptive, cross-sectional study was to analyse health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in a population-based sample of people with multiple sclerosis (PwMS) in Stockholm County, with respect to disease-related and sociodemographic factors and coping capacity. A further aim was to compare our results on HRQoL--collected by face-to-face interviews at home-visits--with the results from a study with a mail-surveyed sample of PwMS in Stockholm. Home visits were made to 166 PwMS with clinically definite MS. Data were obtained from structured interviews using the Sickness Impact Profile (SIP), EuroQol-5D (EQ-5D) and the Sense of Coherence Scale. HRQoL was widely affected, especially in home management, walking and recreation. Self-rated HRQoL was worse in PwMS, including those with milder disease and shorter disease duration, than in the general population. Factors that were independently associated with large impact on HRQoL were disease severity, work status and coping capacity. The EQ-5D score of PwMS was more favourable when assessed by face-to face interviews at home in our study than in the study using mailed questionnaires. The study gives detailed information on HRQoL and will contribute to the base needed for organizing health care services aimed at improving HRQoL of PwMS in Stockholm.


Cognitive impairment commonly accompanies clinical syndromes associated with vascular disease of the brain. Because of evolving definitional criteria, however, the frequency of cognitive impairment attributable to cerebrovascular disease is difficult to determine. Dementia occurs in up to one-third of elderly patients with stroke, a subset of whom have Alzheimer's disease (AD) rather than a pure vascular dementia syndrome. In fact, pure vascular dementia has been shown to be uncommon in most large autopsy series. A mixed etiology of AD and cerebrovascular disease is thought to become more common with increasing age, although no clinical criteria for the diagnosis of AD with cerebrovascular disease are currently available. Epidemiological studies have implicated subcortical small-vessel disease as a risk factor for cognitive impairment and dementia, but the cognitive expression and clinical significance of MRI white matter changes in individual patients is difficult to establish. The frequency of specific neuropathologic features of vascular cognitive impairment depends largely on study inclusion criteria. Cerebral meningocortical microangiopathies with distinctive clinicopathological profiles are associated with dementia in both sporadic cases and familial syndromes. In patients with AD, the contribution of amyloid-beta protein to the degree of cognitive impairment has not been clearly defined.
Axon pathfinding requires directional responses of growth cones to extracellular cues, which have been shown to involve local synthesis of protein. The identity and functions of the locally produced proteins remain, however, unclear. Here we report that Ca(2+)-dependent bidirectional turning of Xenopus laevis growth cones requires localized distribution and translation of beta-actin messenger RNA. Both beta-actin mRNA and its zipcode-binding protein, ZBP1, are localized at the growth cone and become asymmetrically distributed upon local exposure to brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). Inhibition of protein synthesis or antisense interference with beta-actin mRNA-ZBP1 binding abolishes both Ca(2+)-mediated attraction and repulsion. In addition, attraction involves a local increase in beta-actin, whereas repulsion is accompanied by a local decrease in beta-actin; thus, both produce a synthesis- and ZBP1 binding-dependent beta-actin asymmetry but with opposite polarities. Together with a similar asymmetry in Src activity during bidirectional responses, our findings indicate that Ca(2+)-dependent spatial regulation of beta-actin synthesis through Src contributes to the directional motility of growth cones during guidance.
Extracellular matrix (ECM) components regulate neurite outgrowth in tissue culture and in vivo. Live imaging of phosphotyrosine (PY) signals revealed that Xenopus laevis growth cones extending on permissive ECM substrata assemble adhesive point contacts containing enriched levels of tyrosine-phosphorylated proteins. Whereas focal adhesion kinase (FAK) signaling is dispensable for the assembly of focal adhesions in non-neuronal cells, FAK activity is required for the formation of growth cone point contacts. FAK-dependent point contacts promote rapid neurite outgrowth by stabilizing lamellipodial protrusions on permissive ECM substrata. Moreover, local FAK activity is required for ECM-dependent growth cone turning in vitro, suggesting that FAK may control axon pathfinding in vivo. Consistent with this possibility, proper growth and guidance of Rohon-Beard sensory neurons and spinal commissural interneurons requires FAK activity. These findings identify FAK as a key regulator of axon growth and guidance downstream of growth cone-ECM interactions.
Emotions generally facilitate memory, an effect mediated by the basolateral amygdala (BLA). To study the underlying mechanisms, we recorded BLA, perirhinal and entorhinal neurons during an appetitive trace-conditioning task. We focused on the rhinal cortices because they constitute the interface between the hippocampus, a mediator of memory consolidation, and the neocortex, the storage site of declarative memories. We found that, after unexpected rewards, BLA activity increased impulse transmission from perirhinal to entorhinal neurons and that this effect decayed as the association between conditioned stimuli and rewards was learned. At this late phase of learning, the BLA effect occurred when the animals were anticipating the reward. By enhancing the processing of sensory cues, the BLA-mediated facilitation of rhinal interactions may explain how the amygdala promotes memory formation in emotional conditions.
Dopamine deficiency, caused by the degeneration of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons, is the cause of the major clinical motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease. These symptoms can be treated successfully with a range of drugs that include levodopa, inhibitors of the enzymatic breakdown of levodopa and dopamine agonists delivered by oral, subcutaneous, transcutaneous, intravenous or intra-duodenal routes. However, Parkinson's disease involves degeneration of non-dopaminergic neurons and the treatment of the resulting predominantly non-motor features remains a challenge. This review describes the important recent advances that underlie the development of novel dopaminergic and non-dopaminergic drugs for Parkinson's disease, and also for the motor complications that arise from the use of existing therapies.
Borna disease virus (BDV) is an enveloped virus that has a non-segmented, negative-strand RNA genome with the characteristic organization of the mononegaviruses. However, based on its unique genetic and biological features, BDV is considered to be the prototypic member of a new mononegavirus family, the Bornaviridae. BDV causes central nervous system (CNS) disease in a wide variety of mammals. This article discusses the recently developed reverse-genetics systems for BDV, and the implications for the elucidation of the molecular mechanisms underlying BDV-host interactions, including the basis of BDV persistence in the CNS and its associated diseases.
Genes are major contributors to many psychiatric diseases, but their mechanisms of action have long seemed elusive. The intermediate phenotype concept represents a strategy for characterizing the neural systems affected by risk gene variants to elucidate quantitative, mechanistic aspects of brain function implicated in psychiatric disease. Using imaging genetics as an example, we illustrate recent advances, challenges and implications of linking genes to structural and functional variation in brain systems related to cognition and emotion.
The year 2006 marks the 100th anniversary of the first Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine for studies in the field of the Neurosciences jointly awarded to Camillo Golgi and Santiago Ramn y Cajal for their key contributions to the study of the nervous system. This award represented the beginning of the modern era of neuroscience. Using the Golgi method, Cajal made fundamental, but often unappreciated, contributions to the study of the relationship between brain plasticity and mental processes. Here, I focus on some of these early experiments and how they continue to influence studies of brain plasticity.
The execution of reaching movements involves the coordinated activity of multiple brain regions that relate variously to the desired target and a path of arm states to achieve that target. These arm states may represent positions, velocities, torques, or other quantities. Estimation has been previously applied to neural activity in reconstructing the target separately from the path. However, the target and path are not independent. Because arm movements are limited by finite muscle contractility, knowledge of the target constrains the path of states that leads to the target. In this letter, we derive and illustrate a state equation to capture this basic dependency between target and path. The solution is described for discrete-time linear systems and gaussian increments with known target arrival time. The resulting analysis enables the use of estimation to study how brain regions that relate variously to target and path together specify a trajectory. The corresponding reconstruction procedure may also be useful in brain-driven prosthetic devices to generate control signals for goal-directed movements.
The representation of hierarchically structured knowledge in systems using distributed patterns of activity is an abiding concern for the connectionist solution of cognitively rich problems. Here, we use statistical unsupervised learning to consider semantic aspects of structured knowledge representation. We meld unsupervised learning notions formulated for multilinear models with tensor product ideas for representing rich information. We apply the model to images of faces.
While some decision-making processes often result in the generation of an observable action, for example eye or limb movements, others may prevent actions and occur without an overt behavioral response. To understand how these decisions are made, one must look directly at their neuronal substrates. We trained two monkeys on a go/no-go task which requires a saccade to a peripheral cue stimulus (go) or maintenance of fixation (no-go). We performed binary regressions on the activity of single neurons in the superior colliculus (SC), with the go/no-go decision as a predictor variable, and constructed a virtual decision function (VDF) designed to provide a good estimation of decision content and its timing in a single trial decision process. Post hoc analyses by VDF correctly predicted the monkey's choice in more than 80% of trials. These results suggest that monitoring of SC activity has sufficient capacity to predict go/no-go decisions on a trial-by-trial basis.
The brain's most difficult computation in decision-making learning is searching for essential information related to rewards among vast multimodal inputs and then integrating it into beneficial behaviors. Contextual cues consisting of limbic, cognitive, visual, auditory, somatosensory, and motor signals need to be associated with both rewards and actions by utilizing an internal representation such as reward prediction and reward prediction error. Previous studies have suggested that a suitable brain structure for such integration is the neural circuitry associated with multiple cortico-striatal loops. However, computational exploration still remains into how the information in and around these multiple closed loops can be shared and transferred. Here, we propose a &quot;heterarchical reinforcement learning&quot; model, where reward prediction made by more limbic and cognitive loops is propagated to motor loops by spiral projections between the striatum and substantia nigra, assisted by cortical projections to the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus, which sends excitatory input to the substantia nigra. The model makes several fMRI-testable predictions of brain activity during stimulus-action-reward association learning. The caudate nucleus and the cognitive cortical areas are correlated with reward prediction error, while the putamen and motor-related areas are correlated with stimulus-action-dependent reward prediction. Furthermore, a heterogeneous activity pattern within the striatum is predicted depending on learning difficulty, i.e., the anterior medial caudate nucleus will be correlated more with reward prediction error when learning becomes difficult, while the posterior putamen will be correlated more with stimulus-action-dependent reward prediction in easy learning. Our fMRI results revealed that different cortico-striatal loops are operating, as suggested by the proposed model.
We present a new decision-making model that can account for trial-by-trial variability induced by a process (&quot;pre-process&quot;) that occurs before an explicit sensory signal specifying a later motor response. A process after explicit sensory signals, referred to herein as the &quot;post-process&quot;, has been investigated by a variety of so-called rise-to-threshold models including the LATER model. The LATER model formulates post-process variability but treats the pre-process as fixed within a block of an experiment. We propose an extension of the LATER model, which we call the extended LATER (ELATER) model, to account for trial-by-trial variability of both pre- and post-processes together. We present the mathematical formulation of the ELATER model and analyze its characteristics, including numerical examples and an example of saccade latency data in reward-manipulated conditions with caudate activity. The ELATER model is useful for investigating decision making by taking account of trial-by-trial variability of both pre- and post-processes.
Roitman and Shadlen [Roitman J. D., &amp; Shadlen M. N. (2002). Response of neurons in the lateral intraparietal area during a combined visual discrimination reaction time task. Journal of Neuroscience, 22, 9475-9489] have published a non-human primate study on visual decision making. They collected both behavioral and neurophysiological data and provided evidence that the data are qualitatively consistent with a mechanism based on accumulating sensory evidence up to a decision threshold. I have previously demonstrated that a time-variant diffusion model can account quite well quantitatively for both the behavioral and the neural data. In this manuscript I discuss how well the data constrains different components and parameters of the computational process. I also discuss the biological plausibility of the model parameters. I will demonstrate that a relatively large class of models, both with and without temporal integration and both stationary and time-variant could account for the behavioral data. Both the single cell recordings from the parietal cortex and previously published data from the extrastriate visual cortex provide additional constraints. Overall, the data favor a diffusion model with time-variant gain and leaky integrators. The integration time constant, however, turns out not to be well-constrained by the data.
The basal ganglia (BG) coordinate decision making processes by facilitating adaptive frontal motor commands while suppressing others. In previous work, neural network simulations accounted for response selection deficits associated with BG dopamine depletion in Parkinson's disease. Novel predictions from this model have been subsequently confirmed in Parkinson patients and in healthy participants under pharmacological challenge. Nevertheless, one clear limitation of that model is in its omission of the subthalamic nucleus (STN), a key BG structure that participates in both motor and cognitive processes. The present model incorporates the STN and shows that by modulating when a response is executed, the STN reduces premature responding and therefore has substantial effects on which response is ultimately selected, particularly when there are multiple competing responses. Increased cortical response conflict leads to dynamic adjustments in response thresholds via cortico-subthalamic-pallidal pathways. The model accurately captures the dynamics of activity in various BG areas during response selection. Simulated dopamine depletion results in emergent oscillatory activity in BG structures, which has been linked with Parkinson's tremor. Finally, the model accounts for the beneficial effects of STN lesions on these oscillations, but suggests that this benefit may come at the expense of impaired decision making.
Most reinforcement learning models of animal conditioning operate under the convenient, though fictive, assumption that Pavlovian conditioning concerns prediction learning whereas instrumental conditioning concerns action learning. However, it is only through Pavlovian responses that Pavlovian prediction learning is evident, and these responses can act against the instrumental interests of the subjects. This can be seen in both experimental and natural circumstances. In this paper we study the consequences of importing this competition into a reinforcement learning context, and demonstrate the resulting effects in an omission schedule and a maze navigation task. The misbehavior created by Pavlovian values can be quite debilitating; we discuss how it may be disciplined.
Recent neuroimaging research shows that older adults exhibit recruitment, or increased activation on various cognitive tasks. The current study evaluated whether a similar pattern also occurs in semantic memory by evaluating age-related differences during recognition of Recent (since the 1990s) and Enduring (1950s to present) famous names. Fifteen healthy older and 15 healthy younger adults performed the name recognition task with a high and comparable degree of accuracy, although older adults had slower reaction time in response to Recent famous names. Event-related functional MRI showed extensive networks of activation in the two groups including posterior cingulate, right hippocampus, temporal lobe and left prefrontal regions. The Recent condition produced more extensive activation than the Enduring condition. Older adults had more extensive and greater magnitude of activation in 15 of 20 regions, particularly for the Recent condition (15 of 15; 7 of 15 also differed for Enduring); young adults did not show greater activation magnitude in any region. There were no group differences for non-famous names, indicating that age differences are task-specific. The results support and extend the existing literature to semantic memory tasks, indicating that older adult brains use functional recruitment to support task performance, even when task performance accuracy is high.
Biomarkers present in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of Alzheimer Disease patients could be instrumental in guiding diagnosis and monitoring of progression of the disease. We have previously reported on the secretion of a frameshifted form of amyloid-beta precursor protein, APP+1, into the CSF of Alzheimer patients and controls. APP+1 is secreted efficiently in controls, but during the progression of Alzheimer Disease, its secretion is reduced and APP+1 accumulates in tangle-bearing neurons. Here we describe the generation of a transgenic mouse line expressing APP+1 in the brain. These mice do not suffer from overt pathology or neurodegeneration, suggesting that APP+1 is not neurotoxic. To measure APP+1 levels in the CSF, we serially sampled CSF from the cisterna magna in the same mouse over a period of months. Indeed, APP+1 is secreted into the CSF of the transgenic mice, and APP+1 levels are stable over 1 year. This mouse model may guide the study of secretion deficits as found in Alzheimer Disease.
We have initiated a systematic analysis of the role of cholesterol metabolizing genes as risk factors for Alzheimer's disease pathogenesis. As part of this analysis, we have assessed the NR1H2 gene on chromosome 19 and report here a modest association with the locus in sibpairs with late onset disease.
Aged monkeys exhibit deficits in memory mediated by the medial temporal lobe system, similar to the effects of normal aging in humans. The contribution of structural deterioration to age-associated memory loss was explored using magnetic resonance imaging techniques. We quantified hippocampal, cerebral and ventricular volumes in young (n = 6, 9-12 years) and aged (n = 6, 24-29 years) rhesus monkeys. Eleven subjects were tested on a recognition memory task, delayed non-matching-to-sample (DNMS). Compared to young animals, aged monkeys exhibited robust learning deficits and significant memory impairments when challenged with longer retention intervals. Hippocampal volume was statistically equivalent across age groups, differing by less than 6%, and there was no correlation between this measure and DNMS performance. Variability in cerebral volume was greater in the aged compared to young monkeys and this parameter was marginally correlated with DNMS performance with a 10-min delay. These findings confirm and extend the conclusion of recent post-mortem histological analyses demonstrating that normal cognitive aging occurs independently of gross structural deterioration in the primate hippocampus.
Microglial morphology and immunophenotype have been studied extensively in aging-related neurodegenerative diseases, but to a lesser extent in the normally aged CNS, and little is known about how aging affects the ability of microglia to respond to neuronal injury. The goal of the current study was to determine if aging affects the ability of microglia to divide during the early response to facial nerve axotomy. In addition, we investigated the incidence of microglial cell death during later post-axotomy time points to determine if aging had an effect on microglial turnover. We employed DNA labeling with 3H-thymidine, TUNEL and lectin histochemistry after facial nerve axotomy in young (3 months), middle-aged (15 months), and old (30 months) Fisher344-Brown Norway hybrid rats. Proliferation of microglia in old rats remained significantly higher than in young rats 4 days after injury, suggesting that regulation of microglial proliferation changes with aging. There was no aging-related difference in microglial TUNEL staining at 7, 14 or 21 days post-axotomy. Lectin histochemistry in the unoperated facial nucleus revealed aging-related morphological changes in resting microglia, including hypertrophy of the cytoplasm with dense perinuclear staining. Aging-related differences in activated microglia on the lesioned side were more subtle, although many activated microglia of aged animals continued to exhibit dense perinuclear lectin reactivity. We propose that aging-related changes in morphology in conjunction with a less regulated proliferative response in the aged facial nucleus may be a reflection of microglial senescence.
Axonal damage, a core feature of neurological diseases, induces a retrograde reaction in neurons and surrounding glia. We determined transcriptional profiles of this reaction using Affymetrix oligonucleotide arrays. Gene expression was examined in spinal cord tissue prior to injury and following ventral root avulsion in two inbred rat strains, where the degree of neurodegeneration differs. Stringent statistical analysis revealed 278 regulated genes, whereof 245 were regulated by the injury and 68 differed between strains. Principal component analysis disclosed a common injury response pattern significantly modified by genetic background. Notably, inflammatory genes comprised the largest group of genes induced by injury and these transcripts prevailed in the strain most susceptible to neurodegeneration. In addition, levels of the strain regulated genes C1qb and Timp1 correlated with degree of neurodegeneration in a cohort of genetically heterogeneous animals. These results suggest a link between the inflammatory response elicited by nerve injury and subsequent neurodegeneration.
Focal cortical dysplasia (FCD) and glioneuronal tumors (GNT) are recognized causes of chronic intractable epilepsy. The cellular mechanism(s) underlying their epileptogenicity remain largely unknown. Compelling evidence in experimental models of seizures indicates an important role of interleukin (IL)-1beta in the mechanisms of hyperexcitability leading to the occurrence of seizures. We immunocytochemically investigated the brain expression and cellular distribution pattern of IL-1beta, IL-1 receptor (IL-1R) types I and II and IL-1R antagonist (IL-1Ra) in FCD and GNT specimens, and we correlate these parameters with the clinical history of epilepsy in patients with medically intractable seizures. In normal control cortex, and in perilesional regions with histologically normal cortex, IL-1beta, IL-1Rs and IL-1Ra expression was undetectable. In all FCD and GNT specimens, IL-1beta and its signalling receptor IL-1RI were highly expressed by more than 30% of neurons and glia whereas the decoy receptor IL-RII and IL-Ra were expressed to a lesser extent by approximately 10% and 20% of cells, respectively. These findings show a high expression of IL-1beta and its functional receptor (IL-1RI) in FCD and GNT specimens together with a relative paucity of mechanisms (IL-1RII and IL-1Ra) apt to inactivate IL-1beta actions. Moreover, the number of IL-1beta- and IL-1RI-positive neurons was positively correlated with the frequency of seizures, whereas the number of IL-1Ra-positive neurons and astroglial cells was negatively correlated with the duration of epilepsy prior to surgery. The expression of IL-1beta family members in these developmental lesions may contribute to their intrinsic and high epileptogenicity, thus possibly representing a novel target for antiepileptic strategies.
Adult proliferation and hippocampal neurogenesis are stimulated by injury. In agreement, aberrant cell-cycle-related protein expression has been reported in senile Alzheimer's disease (AD), where the hippocampus is particularly affected. Recently, increased expression of doublecortin (DCX), a neurogenesis marker, was reported in senile AD. Here, we addressed whether proliferative and neurogenic responses also occur in younger, i.e., presenile AD cases, using immunohistochemistry for Ki-67, GFAP and DCX. Increased numbers of Ki-67+ cells with a healthy, non-mature appearance were found in CA1-3. These were mainly due to glial and vasculature-associated changes, while DCX immunostaining appeared sensitive to postmortem breakdown. We found no indications for altered dentate gyrus neurogenesis. Our data obtained using validated methodology in a well-characterized, presenile cohort thus differ from previous data obtained in senile AD. They reflect clear differences in proliferative responsivity, particularly in the glia and vascular components, and suggest different underlying mechanisms in these groups.
Inbred mouse strains are used in forward-genetic experiments, designed to uncover genes contributing to their highly distinct neurophenotypes and multiple reports of variations in mutant phenotypes due to genetic background differences in reverse-genetic approaches have been published. Information on strain-specific protein expression-phenotypes however, is limited and a comprehensive screen of an effect of strain on brain protein levels has not yet been carried out. Herein a proteomic approach, based upon two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE) coupled to mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF/TOF) was used to show significant genetic variation in hippocampal protein levels between five mouse strains. Considering recent evidence for the importance of the intracellular protein quality control system for synaptic plasticity-related mechanism we decided to focus on the analysis of molecular chaperones and components of the ubiquitin-proteasome system. Sixty-six spots, depicting 36 proteins have been unambiguously identified by mass spectrometry. Quantification revealed strain-dependent levels of 18 spots, representing 12 individual gene products. We thus present proteome analysis of hippocampal tissues of several mouse strains as suitable tool to address fundamental questions about genetic control of protein levels and to demonstrate molecular networks of protein metabolism and chaperoning. The findings are useful for designing future studies on these cascades and interpretation of results show that data on brain protein levels cannot be simply extrapolated among different mouse strains.
Correct timing and spatial location of growth factor expression is critical for undisturbed brain development and functioning. In terminally differentiated cells distinct biological responses to growth factors may depend on cell type specific activation of signalling cascades. We show that the hematopoietic growth factors thrombopoietin (TPO) and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (GCSF) exert cell type specific effects on survival, proliferation and the degree of phosphorylation of Akt1, ERK1/2 and STAT3 in rat hippocampal neurons and cortical astrocytes. In neurons, TPO induced cell death and selectively activated ERK1/2. GCSF protected neurons from TPO- and hypoxia-induced cell death via selective activation of Akt1. In astrocytes, neither TPO nor GCSF had any effect on cell viability but inhibited proliferation. This effect was accompanied by activation of ERK1/2 and inhibition of STAT3 activity. A balance between growth factors, their receptors and signalling proteins may play an important role in regulation of neural cell survival.
Females are disproportionately affected by constipation, which is often aggravated during pregnancy. Bowel function also changes during the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle. The aim was to compare the effects of acute administration of female sex steroids on gastric emptying, small bowel transit and colonic transit in healthy postmenopausal subjects. A second aim was to determine whether withdrawal of the hormones was associated with a change in transit. Forty-nine postmenopausal females were randomized to receive for 7 days 400 mg day(-1) micronized progesterone, 0.2 mg day(-1) oestradiol, combination of the two, or placebo. Treatment groups were balanced on age. Participants underwent whole gut transit measurement by scintigraphy using a 99m-labeled technetium-egg meal and 111-labeled indium-charcoal via a delayed-release capsule. Transit measurement was repeated after withdrawal of the study medications. The primary endpoints were ascending colon (AC) emptying half-life time (t1/2) and colonic geometric centre (GC) at 24 h. Secondary analysis variables were GC at 4 and 48 h, gastric emptying t1/2 and colonic filling at 6 h. There was a significant overall effect of progesterone on colonic transit with shorter AC emptying t1/2 and significantly greater colonic GC at 48 h. No transit endpoints were altered by oestradiol or combined hormonal treatment relative to placebo. Oestradiol and progesterone resulted in looser stool consistency. Withdrawal of the hormone supplement was not associated with significant alteration in transit. Micronized progesterone does not retard colonic transit in postmenopausal females.
Faster and less obtrusive means for measuring a Visual Evoked Potential would be valuable in clinical testing and basic neuroscience research. This study presents a method for accomplishing this by smoothly modulating the luminance of a visual stimulus using a stochastic process. Despite its visually unobtrusive nature, the rich statistical structure of the stimulus enables rapid estimation of the visual system's impulse response. The profile of these responses, which we call VESPAs, correlates with standard VEPs, with r=0.91, p&lt;10(-28) for the group average. The time taken to obtain a VESPA with a given signal-to-noise ratio compares favorably to that required to obtain a VEP with a similar level of certainty. Additionally, we show that VESPA responses to two independent stimuli can be obtained simultaneously, which could drastically reduce the time required to collect responses to multiple stimuli. The new method appears to provide a useful alternative to standard VEP methods, and to have potential application both in clinical practice and to the study of sensory and perceptual functions.
Knowing what is going to happen next, that is, the capacity to predict upcoming events, modulates the extent to which aversive stimuli induce stress and anxiety. We explored this issue by manipulating the temporal predictability of aversive events by means of a visual cue, which was either correlated or uncorrelated with pain stimuli (electric shocks). Subjects reported lower levels of anxiety, negative valence and pain intensity when shocks were predictable. In addition to attenuate focus on danger, predictability allows for correct temporal estimation of, and selective attention to, the sensory input. With functional magnetic resonance imaging, we found that predictability was related to enhanced activity in relevant sensory-discriminative processing areas, such as the primary and secondary sensory cortex and posterior insula. In contrast, the unpredictable more aversive context was correlated to brain activity in the anterior insula and the orbitofrontal cortex, areas associated with affective pain processing. This context also prompted increased activity in the posterior parietal cortex and lateral prefrontal cortex that we attribute to enhanced alertness and sustained attention during unpredictability.
In positron emission tomography (PET) studies, the detailed mapping of neuroreceptor binding is a trade-off between parametric accuracy and spatial precision. Logan's graphical approach is a straightforward way to quickly obtain binding potential values at the voxel level but it has been shown to have a noise-dependent negative bias. More recently suggested approaches claim to improve parametric accuracy with retained spatial resolution. In the present study, we used PET measurements on regional D2 dopamine and 5-HT1A serotonin receptor binding in man to compare binding potential (BP) estimates of six different parametric imaging approaches to the traditional Logan ROI-based approach which was used as a &quot;gold standard&quot;. The parametric imaging approaches included Logan's reference tissue graphical analysis (PILogan), its version recently modified by Varga and Szabo (PIVarga), two versions of the wavelet-based approach, Gunn's basis function method (BFM) and Gunn et al.'s recent compartmental theory-based approach employing basis pursuit strategy for kinetic modeling (called DEPICT). Applicability for practical purposes in basic and clinical research was also considered. The results indicate that the PILogan and PIVarga approaches fail to recover the correct values, the wavelet-based approaches overcome the noise susceptibility of the Logan fit with generally good recovery of BP values, and BFM and DEPICT seem to produce values with a bias dependent on receptor density. Further investigations on this bias and other phenomena revealed fundamental issues regarding the use of BFM and DEPICT on noisy voxel-wise data. In conclusion, the wavelet-based approaches seem to provide the most valid and reliable estimates across regions with a wide range of receptor densities. Furthermore, the results support the use of receptor parametric imaging in applied studies in basic or clinical research.
Language comprehension relies on processing of context. Working memory (WM) evoked by linguistic cues for spatial and nonspatial aspects of a visual scene was investigated by correlating fMRI BOLD signal (or 'activation') with reaction times (RTs). Subjects were asked to indicate either the relative positions or ages of people or objects (referenced by the personal pronouns &quot;he/she/it&quot;) in a previously shown image. Good performers of a particular task showed shorter RTs than poor performers. Task-specific activation that is greater in good performers than poor ones is taken to indicate involvement of a given region in performance of the task. Our results indicate that dorsoposterior precuneus supports spatial WM during linguistic processing while a network of areas including the caudate support nonspatial WM in categorization of age. We argue that within-subjects variation of RTs across trials reflects effort. Good performers have higher activity in precuneus as a function of effort compared to poor performers during the spatial task, whereas the opposite is found for the nonspatial task, providing further evidence for specifically spatial WM in dorsoposterior precuneus. Task-independent performance-related modulations of activity were found in Broca's area and amygdala. Broca's area activity increased with effort in both tasks, with a greater increase in good performers than in poor performers, consistent with the region's general role in verbal WM. By contrast, activation in amygdala decreased with effort, with a greater decrease in good performers. We take this deactivation to reflect performance-mediating emotional control. These findings indicate that multiple parallel memory systems are available during language processing, appropriate for different tasks, with performance reflecting which system is selected trial-by-trial and subject-by-subject.
The hippocampus is a critical structure for learning and memory formation injured by diverse neuropathologies such as epilepsy or Alzheimer's disease. Recently, clinical investigations have attempted to use diffusion tensor MRI as a more specific surrogate marker for hippocampal damage. To first better understand the tissue architecture of healthy hippocampal regions, this study characterized 10 rat hippocampi with diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) at 50-microm in-plane image resolution using a 14.1-T magnet. Chemical fixation of the dissected and straightened rat hippocampus provided a simple, effective way to reduce partial volume effects when segmenting hippocampal regions and improved mean signal-to-noise per unit time (e.g. 50.6+/-4.4 at b=1250 s/mm2 in 27 min). Contrary to previous reports that water diffusion is homogeneous throughout the nervous system, statistically different mean diffusivities were observed (e.g. 0.238+/-0.054 and 0.318+/-0.084 microm2/ms for the molecular and granule cell layers respectively) (ANOVA, P&lt;0.05). Different hippocampal subregions had lower fractional anisotropy than uniformly fibrous structures like corpus callosum because of their complex architecture. DTI-derived color fiber orientation maps and tractography demonstrated most components of the trisynaptic intrahippocampal pathway (e.g. orientations in stratum lacunosum-moleculare were dominated by perforant and Schaffer fibers) and also permitted some assessment of connectivity in the rat hippocampus.

Molecular chaperons or amyloid-associated proteins (AAPs) are deposited in vascular and parenchymal amyloid lesions in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and other amyloidoses. AAPs, such as apolipoprotein E (ApoE) or apolipoprotein J (ApoJ) have been strongly implicated in the pathogenesis of AD in vitro and in vivo. Furthermore the possession of the ApoE in4 allele is a well-studied risk factor for AD. In view of the similarities between AD and both familial British dementia (FBD) and familial Danish dementia (FDD), we investigated the presence of AAPs in these two diseases to understand better their role in the general process of amyloidogenesis. Immunohistochemistry for ApoE, ApoJ, serum amyloid P (SAP), alpha-1-antichymotrypsin, cystatin C, heparan sulphate proteoglycans, such as agrin, perlecan, syndecans, glypican-1 and for heparan sulphate glycosaminoglycan (HS GAG) side chains was carried out together with immunohistochemical preparations specific to the amyloid subunits. Significant or extensive staining for ApoE, ApoJ, agrin, glypican-1 and HS GAG side chains was found in both amyloid (fibrillar) and preamyloid (nonfibrillar) deposits in FBD and FDD. The remaining AAPs, including SAP, were predominantly found in amyloid lesions. Only very weak staining was present in a small proportion of the amyloid lesions using perlecan immunohistochemistry. These findings suggest that the deposition patterns of AAPs in FBD and FDD are mostly similar to those in AD. The presence of AAPs in the preamyloid lesions supports the notion that chaperon molecules may play a role in the early steps of fibrillogenesis.
Autoantibodies to glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD65) have been reported in sera from the Cln3(-/-) mouse model of juvenile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (JNCL), and in individuals with this fatal paediatric neurodegenerative disorder. To investigate the existence of other circulating autoreactive antibodies, we used sera from patients with JNCL and other forms of neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (NCL) as primary antisera to stain rat and human central nervous system sections. JNCL sera displayed characteristic patterns of IgG, but not IgA, IgE or IgM immunoreactivity that was distinct from the other forms of NCL. Immunoreactivity of JNCL sera was not confined to GAD65-positive (GABAergic) neurons, but also stained multiple other cell populations. Preadsorption of JNCL sera with recombinant GAD65 reduced the intensity of the immunoreactivity, but did not significantly change its staining pattern. Moreover, sera from Stiff Person Syndrome and Type I Diabetes, disorders in which GAD65 autoantibodies are present, stained with profiles that were markedly different from JNCL sera. Collectively, these studies provide evidence of the presence of autoreactive antibodies within multiple forms of NCL, and are not exclusively directed towards GAD65.

In this symposium, cutting-edge data on neuropathology, pathological biochemistry and molecular biology of sporadic and familial tauopathies, as well as on the development of model animals, were presented and discussed by five expert neuropathologists.
Neurofilament inclusion disease (NFID) is a rare disease, whose pathogenesis remains to be elucidated. Immunoreactivity of ubiquitin-binding protein p62 has been reported in various neurodegenerative diseases, but it has not been studied in NFID. In this report we show p62 immunoreactivity in neuronal perikaryon of three cases of NFID. We found inclusions in NFID to be heterogenous based on immunoreactivity for alpha-internexin, phosphorylated neurofilament-H, p62 and ubiquitin. Moreover, we showed both p62- and alpha-internexin-immunoreactive inclusions within the perikarya of the same neuron. Electron microscopy findings support the notion that inclusions in NFID are heterogenous. The present study extends the list of proteins that have been identified as components of neuronal inclusions in NFID, and may help account for the pathogenesis of NFID.
Previous studies have shown that beta-synuclein (beta-syn), the homologue of alpha-syn, inhibited alpha-syn aggregation and stabilized Akt cell survival signaling molecule, suggesting that beta-syn was protective against alpha-syn-related neurodegenerative disorders, such as Parkinson's disease and diffuse Lewy body disease. However, emerging evidence argues that the situation may be not so simple. Two missense mutations of beta-syn were identified in familial and sporadic diffuse Lewy body disease, and wild type beta-syn was induced to form fibril structures in vitro, while, alpha-syn was shown to be protective against neurodegeneration caused by deletion of cysteine-string protein-alpha, the presynaptic cochaperone to Hsc70 in mice. Collectively, alpha- and beta-syn are both, but in varying degrees, featured with two opposite properties, namely normal chaperone and anti-chaperone. By reviewing recent progress in syn biology with a particular focus on beta-syn, this manuscript refers to the intriguing possibility that the dual syn proteins might have acquired a driving force for synaptic evolution. Hypothetically, the anti-chaperone syn may provoke stress-induced diverse responses, whereas, the chaperone syn may provide buffering for them, allowing accumulation of nonlethal phenotypic variations in synapses. Consequently, dual syn proteins may cope with forthcoming stresses in the brain by stimulating adaptive evolution. In this context, failure to regulate this process due to various causes, such as gene mutations and environmental risk factors, may result in imperfect adaptability against stresses, leading to neurodegenerative disorders.
Psychological tests based on visual information processing have shown to be promising in predicting neurodevelopmental outcome in infants at risk. In the present study we prospectively investigated the early development in a group of 20 high-risk preterm infants by means of i) the Fagan Test of Infant Intelligence at 7, 9, and 12 months postterm and ii) a detailed battery for the early assessment of visual functions at 6 and 10 months postterm. The results were then correlated to the Griffiths development scales at two years. At around 7 months no correlation was found in our infants between the Fagan test and neurodevelopmental outcome, possibly as a consequence of the influence of abnormal oculomotor behaviour. At around 9 months most of the visual abnormalities were no more present and the Fagan test was significantly correlated with the outcome. At 12 months postterm a decline of the predictive value of the FTII was observed. In conclusion, nine months postterm age appears to be the best age for the early assessment of neurodevelopmental outcome in high-risk preterm infants, as the maturation of the attentional and visual systems allows a more reliable evaluation.
Low circulating peptide YY (PYY) levels are reported in obese and type II diabetic subjects and results from PYY knockout animals suggests that PYY deficiency may have a causative role in the etiology of obesity and type 2 diabetes. Here, our aims were to determine whether people with a genetic predisposition to developing type 2 diabetes and obesity differ from otherwise similar subjects without such family history, in fasting or meal-related PYY levels, fasting insulin, insulin secretion (HOMA-B) and insulin sensitivity. We also investigated whether PYY ablation affects the intrinsic ability of islets to secrete insulin, which may be a contributing factor to the hyperinsulinemia observed in PYY knockout mice. Healthy female first-degree relatives of people with type 2 diabetes were matched for age, gender and BMI to control subjects but had significantly lower insulin sensitivity (p&lt;0.05). Relatives also had significantly lower fasting serum PYY levels than controls (p&lt;0.05), but their PYY response to a high fat meal (4250 kJ, 73% fat) was not significantly different. Fasting PYY level correlated positively with glucose infusion rate (r=0.713, p=0.002) and fasting adiponectin (r=0.5, p=0.02). Islets of Langerhans from PYY knockout mice were found to hypersecrete insulin in response to 25 mM glucose (p&lt;0.05). These data demonstrate that lack of PYY enhances insulin secretion from the Islets of Langerhans and that low fasting PYY levels are associated with insulin resistance in humans. Together, these findings suggest that low circulating levels of PYY could contribute to hyperinsulinemia and insulin resistance, and possibly contribute to subsequent development of obesity and type 2 diabetes.
3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) is a potent stimulant and hallucinogenic drug whose ability to regulate neurogenesis in the adult has not been previously investigated. We used 5'-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU) and Ki-67 as mitotic markers, and doublecortin (DCX) as a marker of immature neurons, to study proliferation, survival and maturation of adult-generated cells in the dentate gyrus (DG) of the hippocampus following binge administration of MDMA (8 injections of 5 mg/kg at 6 h intervals). The results showed that MDMA treatment did not affect cytogenesis in the DG, but significantly decreased the survival rate of cells incorporated after 2 weeks to the granular layer of the DG by ca. 50%, and of those remaining in the subgranular layer by ca. 30%. Two weeks after exposure to MDMA the length of dendritic arbors and the number of dendritic branches of immature DCX+ neurons were nearly identical to those of control rats, as was the level of colocalization of BrdU with DCX. These results demonstrate that binge MDMA administration does not affect the proliferation rates of progenitor cells in the DG, but has deleterious effects on adult neurogenesis by impairing the short-term survival of vulnerable neural precursors.
This cross-sectional investigation tests the relationship between the level of self-reported childhood parental care and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) concentration in adults with and without personality disorder (PD). Based on preclinical models of the lasting effect of post-natal parental care on central CRF function, the primary hypothesis was that childhood parental care, as reflected by the parental bonding inventory (PBI) care and involvement subscale, is inversely correlated with adult CSF CRF levels. The sample includes cerebrospinal fluid CRF samples from 19 subjects who were included in a previously published report on the relationship between CRF level and Childhood Trauma Questionnaire score. Parental bonding was measured retrospectively with the PBI in 54 medication-free male and female subjects, 37 of whom were diagnosed with a DSM-IV PD, 17 of whom were normal controls free of Axis I and II psychopathology. CSF CRF level as measured by lumbar puncture was entered into a model as the dependent variable, with the independent variables of PBI Parental Care and Involvement, diagnostic category, age, and gender. The model predicting CSF CRF level was significant, with PBI parental care and involvement negatively correlated with CSF CRF level. PD subjects with higher than median PBI parental care and involvement score had significantly lower CSF CRF levels than both normal controls and PD subjects with lower than median PBI parental care and involvement. Higher levels of self-report parental care predict lower CSF CRF levels in PD subjects, consistent with a beneficial effect of parental care on decreased stress reactivity, and consistent with previous reports in humans. The cross-sectional design of the study, however, limits causal inferences.
Drug abuse is thought to induce long-term cellular and behavioral adaptations as a result of alterations in gene expression. Understanding the molecular consequences of addiction may contribute to the development of better treatment strategies. This study utilized high-throughput Affymetrix microarrays to identify gene expression changes in the post-mortem nucleus accumbens of chronic heroin abusers. These data were analyzed independently and in relation to our previously reported data involving human cocaine abusers, in order to determine which expression changes were drug specific and which may be common to the phenomenon of addiction. A significant decrease in the expression of numerous genes encoding proteins involved in presynaptic release of neurotransmitter was seen in heroin abusers, a finding not seen in the cocaine-abusing cohort. Conversely, the striking decrease in myelin-related genes observed in cocaine abusers was not evident in our cohort of heroin subjects. Overall, little overlap in gene expression profiles was seen between the two drug-abusing cohorts: out of the approximately 39,000 transcripts investigated, the abundance of only 25 was significantly changed in both cocaine and heroin abusers, with nearly one-half of these being altered in opposite directions. These data suggest that the profiles of nucleus accumbens gene expression associated with chronic heroin or cocaine abuse are largely unique, despite what are thought to be common effects of these drugs on dopamine neurotransmission in this brain region. A re-examination of our current assumptions about the commonality of molecular mechanisms associated with substance abuse seems warranted.
Obesity is highly prevalent among patients with schizophrenia and is associated with detrimental health consequences. Although excessive consumption of fast food and pharmacotherapy with such second-generation antipsychotic agents (SGAs) as clozapine and olanzapine has been implicated in the schizophrenia/obesity comorbidity, the pathophysiology of this link remains unclear. Here, we propose a mechanism based on brain reward function, a relevant etiologic factor in both schizophrenia and overeating. A comprehensive literature search on neurobiology of schizophrenia and of eating behavior was performed. The collected articles were critically reviewed and relevant data were extracted and summarized within four key areas: (1) energy homeostasis, (2) food reward and hedonics, (3) reward function in schizophrenia, and (4) metabolic effects of the SGAs. A mesolimbic hyperdopaminergic state may render motivational/incentive reward system insensitive to low salience/palatability food. This, together with poor cognitive control from hypofunctional prefrontal cortex and enhanced hedonic impact of food, owing to exaggerated opioidergic drive (clinically manifested as pain insensitivity), may underlie unhealthy eating habits in patients with schizophrenia. Treatment with SGAs purportedly improves dopamine-mediated reward aspects, but at the cost of increased appetite and worsened or at least not improved opiodergic capacity. These effects can further deteriorate eating patterns. Pathophysiological and therapeutic implications of these insights need further validation via prospective clinical trials and neuroimaging studies.
The serotonin (5-HT) system is implicated in incentive motivational processes. The present study utilized the acute tryptophan depletion (ATD) procedure to investigate the effect of temporarily lowering 5-HT synthesis on motivation in healthy volunteers, stratifying the results by allelic variation at the serotonin transporter gene (5-HTTLPR). ATD resulted in a robust reduction in plasma tryptophan concentration. Consistent with a previous study, ATD attenuated motivationally speeded action on the Cued-Reinforcement Reaction Time task. The present investigation revealed that this effect was restricted to volunteers of the ss genotype, whereas ll volunteers exhibited intact motivationally speeded action following ATD (treatment x reinforcement probability x genotype interaction: F1,26=5.8, p=0.024). Furthermore, tryptophan availability to the brain was correlated positively with motivationally speeded action following ATD in the ss genotype group (rho13=0.71, p=0.006), whereas this correlation was negative in the ll genotype group (rho14=-0.60, p=0.023). This is the first study to suggest that allelic variation at the 5-HTTLPR mediates motivational responses to ATD in healthy volunteers. These data indicate that the s allele at the 5-HTTLPR may confer risk for depression via its effect on incentive motivational processing, and highlight the importance of genetic variation in determining individual responses to pharmacological treatments.
In the striatum, adenosine A2A and dopamine D2 receptors exert reciprocal antagonistic interactions that modulate the function of GABAergic enkephalinergic neurons. We have previously shown that stimulation of adenosine A1 receptors allows the stimulation of A2A receptors to overcome a tonic inhibitory effect of D2 receptors and induce striatal expression of c-fos. In the present work, by studying co-localization of c-Fos immunoreactivity and preproenkephalin and preprodynorphin transcripts, we show that co-administration of the A1 receptor agonist CPA and the A2A receptor agonist CGS 21680 increases the striatal expression of c-fos in GABAergic enkephalinergic but not in GABAergic dynorphinergic neurons. Co-administration of CPA and CGS 21680 also induced a significant increase in the striatal expression of preproenkephalin. The results underscore the role of adenosine in the activation of gene expression in the GABAergic enkephalinergic neuron.
Prepulse inhibition (PPI) refers to the attenuation of startle when a weak prestimulus precedes the startling stimulus. PPI is deficient in several psychiatric illnesses involving poor sensorimotor gating. Previous studies indicate that alpha1 adrenergic receptors regulate PPI, yet the extent to which these effects are mediated by central vs peripheral receptors is unclear. The present studies compared the effects of intracerebroventricular (ICV) vs intraperitoneal (IP) delivery of several alpha1 receptor agonists on PPI. Male Sprague-Dawley rats received either cirazoline (0, 10, 25, 50 microg/5 microl), methoxamine (0, 30, 100 microg/5 microl), or phenylephrine (0, 3, 10, 30 microg/5 microl) ICV immediately before testing. Separate groups received either cirazoline (0, 0.25, 0.50, 0.75 mg/kg), methoxamine (0, 2, 5, 10 mg/kg), or phenylephrine (0, 0.1, 2.0 mg/kg) IP 5 min before testing. PPI, baseline startle responses, and piloerection, an index of autonomic arousal, were measured. Cirazoline disrupted PPI; effective ICV doses were approximately six times lower than effective IP doses. Methoxamine disrupted PPI after ICV infusion but failed to affect PPI with IP doses that were up to 30-fold higher than the effective ICV dose. Phenylephrine disrupted PPI with ICV administration, but did not alter PPI after IP injection of even a 20-fold higher dose. None of the ICV treatments altered baseline startle magnitude, but phenylephrine and methoxamine lowered startle after administration of high systemic doses. Piloerection was induced by cirazoline via either route of administration, and by IP methoxamine and phenylephrine, but not by ICV infusion of methoxamine or phenylephrine. These findings indicate that alpha1 receptor-mediated PPI disruption occurs exclusively through stimulation of central receptors and is dissociable from alterations in baseline startle or autonomic effects.
The major problem in treating excessive eating is high rates of relapse to maladaptive eating habits during diet treatments; this relapse is often induced by stress or anxiety states. Preclinical studies have not explored this clinical problem. Here, we adapted a reinstatement model (commonly used to study relapse to abused drugs) to examine the role of stress and anxiety in relapse to palatable food seeking during dieting. Rats were placed on restricted diet (75-80% of daily standard food) and for 12 intermittent training days (9 h/day, every other day) lever-pressed for palatable food pellets (25% fat, 48% carbohydrate) under a fixed ratio 1 (20-s timeout) reinforcement schedule. Subsequently, the rats were given 10 daily extinction sessions during which lever presses were not reinforced, and were then injected with yohimbine (an alpha-2 adrenoceptor antagonist that induces stress and anxiety in humans and non-humans) or given a single food pellet to assess reinstatement of food seeking. The rats rapidly learned to lever press for the palatable pellets and across the training days the ratio of timeout nonreinforced lever presses to reinforced lever presses progressively increased more than three-fold, suggesting the development of compulsive eating behavior. After extinction, yohimbine injections and pellet priming reliably reinstated food seeking. The corticotropin-releasing factor1 (CRF1) receptor antagonist antalarmin attenuated the reinstatement induced by yohimbine, but not pellet priming. Antalarmin also reversed yohimbine's anxiogenic effects in the social interaction test. These data suggest that CRF is involved in stress-induced relapse to palatable food seeking, and that CRF1 antagonists should be considered for the treatment of maladaptive eating habits.
Using a rat relapse model, we previously reported that re-exposing rats to a drug-associated context, following extinction of operant responding in a different context, reinstates heroin seeking. In an initial pharmacological characterization, we found that the mGluR2/3 agonist LY379268, which acts centrally to reduce evoked glutamate release, attenuates context-induced reinstatement of heroin seeking when injected systemically or into the ventral tegmental area, the cell body region of the mesolimbic dopamine system. Here, we tested whether injections of LY379268 into the nucleus accumbens (NAc), a terminal region of the mesolimbic dopamine system, would also attenuate context-induced reinstatement of heroin seeking. Rats were trained to self-administer heroin; drug infusions were paired with a discrete tone-light cue. Subsequently, lever pressing was extinguished in the presence of the discrete cue in a context that differed from the drug self-administration context in terms of visual, auditory, tactile, and circadian cues. After extinction of responding, LY379268 was injected to different groups of rats into the NAc core or shell or into the caudate-putamen, a terminal region of the nigrastriatal dopamine system. Injections of LY379268 into the NAc shell (0.3 or 1.0 microg) dose-dependently attenuated context-induced reinstatement of heroin seeking. Injections of 1.0 microg of LY379268 into the NAc core had no effect, while a higher dose (3.0 microg) decreased this reinstatement. Injections of LY379268 (3.0 microg) 1.5 mm dorsal from the NAc core into the caudate-putamen were ineffective. Results suggest an important role of glutamate transmission in the NAc shell in context-induced reinstatement of heroin seeking.

Select functional outcome tests commonly used for evaluating sensorimotor and cognitive capacity in rodents with focal intracerebral ischemic or hemorrhagic injury are described, along with upgrades and issues of concern for translational research. An emphasis is placed on careful quantitative and qualitative assessment of acute and long-term behavioral deficits, and on avoidance of frequent pitfalls. Methods for detecting different degrees of injury and treatment-related improvements are included. Determining the true potential of an intervention requires a set of behavioral analyses that can monitor compensatory learning. In a number of preclinical outcome tests, animals can develop remarkably effective &quot;tricks&quot; that are difficult to detect but frequently lead to dramatic improvements in performance, particularly with repeated practice. However, some interventions may facilitate learning without promoting brain repair, but these may not translate into a meaningful level of benefit in the clinic. Additionally, it is important to determine whether there are any preinjury functional asymmetries in order to accurately assess damage-related changes in behavior. This is illustrated by the fact that some animals have chronic endogenous asymmetries and that others, albeit infrequently, can sustain a spontaneous cerebral stroke, without any experimental induction, that can lead to chronic deficits as reflected by behavioral, imaging, and histological analyses. Finally, a useful new modification of the water maze that involves moving the platform from trial to trial within the target quadrant is reviewed, and its advantages over the standard version are discussed.
Therapeutic activity is a mainstay of clinical neurorehabilitation, but is typically unstructured and directed at compensation rather than restoration of central nervous system function. Newer activity-based therapies (ABTs) are in early stages of development and testing. The ABTs attempt to restore function via standardized therapeutic activity based on principles of experimental psychology, exercise physiology, and neuroscience. Three of the best developed ABTs are constraint-induced therapy, robotic therapy directed at the hemiplegic arm, and treadmill training techniques aimed at improving gait in persons with stroke and spinal cord injury. These treatments appear effective in improving arm function and gait, but they have not yet been clearly demonstrated to be more effective than equal amounts of traditional techniques. Resistance training is clearly demonstrated to improve strength in persons with stroke and brain injury, and most studies show that it does not increase hypertonia. Clinical trials of ABTs face several methodological challenges. These challenges include defining dosage, standardizing treatment parameters across subjects and within treatment sessions, and determining what constitutes clinically significant treatment effects. The long-term goal is to develop prescriptive ABT, where specific activities are proven to treat specific motor system disorders. Activity-based therapies are not a cure, but are likely to play an important role in future treatment cocktails for stroke and spinal cord injury.


Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging using super-paramagnetic iron oxides (SPIOs) is a powerful tool to monitor transplanted cells in living animals. Since, however, SPIOs are negative contrast agents, positive agents have been explored. In this study, we examined the feasibility of FITC-labeled poly-L-lysine-CF3 (PLK-CF3) using glial cells. FITC-labeled PLK-CF3 was easily internalized by neuroblastoma cells and glia as adding it into culture medium. No toxicity was seen at the concentration of less than 80 microg/ml. MR images positively detected labeled cells transplanted in the brain of living mouse. The results indicate that FITC-labeled PLK-CF3 is a useful positive contrast agent for MR tracking.





Unlike carpal tunnel syndrome, isolated neuropathy of the recurrent motor branch of the median nerve is a rare condition as a cause of thenar muscle wasting. A focused neurophysiological approach is mandatory to reach the proper diagnosis and start specific treatment early enough to prevent possible irreversible hand function disabilities. This is a description of 16-year-old female patient who presented with isolated thenar muscle wasting for 3 years. A focused neurophysiologic approach using abductor pollicis brevis and second lumbrical muscles for recording of median nerve motor conduction and index finger for sensory conduction proved isolated neuropathy of the recurrent motor branch of the median nerve.
A complication of otitis media is defined as a spread of infection beyond the pneumatized area of the temporal bone and the associated mucosa. Complications can be classified as intra temporal or intra cranial, which includes extradural abscess, brain abscess, subdural abscess, sigmoid sinus thrombophlebitis, otic hydrocephalus, and meningitis. Since the introduction of antibiotics, intra cranial complications in otitis media are less common, however, the occurrence should not be underestimated due to their associated morbidity and mortality. Herein, we report a case of chronic suppurative otitis media (CSOM) with intra cranial complication (brain abscess) in a 25-year-old male patient with ear discharge, severe headache, and vomiting. Computerized tomography scan confirmed the diagnosis. The patient was managed by a combined neurosurgical and otologic approach. Surgery of the abscess includes aspiration through a bur hole or craniotomy and by radical mastoidectomy for CSOM.
Hydatid cyst disease in childhood is still a serious health problem in the rural areas of Turkey and other places where the parasite is endemic. The brain involvement rate varies from 1-2% in hydatid disease. Especially in children, hydatid cysts can grow to enormous sizes, and the cases can remain neurologically intact. In this report, a 7-year-old boy, a 15-year-old girl, and a 10-year-old girl, in whom large primary brain hydatid cysts were diagnosed radiologically and treated surgically, are presented. Severe headache in childhood should be taken into consideration carefully in countries where hydatid disease is seen.
We describe fluid attenuated inversion recovery sequence MRI and proton MR spectroscopy appearances of the brain in a 7-year old Saudi boy who presented with the clinical features of Hallervorden-Spatz disease to King Fahad National Guard Hospital, Riyadh, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
We report the findings on serial diffusion-weighted MRI in a 29-year-old male with neuro-Behcet`s disease. Initial T2-weighted and fluid-attenuated inversion recovery images showed a hyperintense lesion in the brain stem. The lesion showed slight hyperintensity on diffusion-weighted images with no evidence of diffusion restriction on apparent diffusion coefficient maps. A follow up study after 7 months showed complete resolution of the brain stem lesion. Our findings indicate that diffusion-weighted imaging is a useful tool to differentiate acute exacerbation of neuro-Behcet`s disease from acute infarction, and therefore it helps in selecting the appropriate therapy.














The ketogenic diet is a high-fat, low-carbohydrate, and adequate-protein diet for the treatment of intractable seizures in children, initially introduced in 1921 to mimic the biochemical changes associated with fasting. The diet is individually calculated and rigidly controlled, requiring a comprehensive medical team approach. Although there are adverse, as well as, beneficial effects, several studies have proved its tolerability and efficacy in children with medically refractory epilepsy. Children must be carefully selected, monitored, and followed, and the parents must be committed. The division of Pediatric Neurology at King Faisal Specialist Hospital &amp; Research Center in Jeddah is one of very few centers that provide this treatment option in the Middle East. Over the last 2 years, 8 children with intractable epilepsy were placed on the ketogenic diet in our center. Overall, 38% (3/8) reached accepted efficacy (&gt;50% seizure reduction), which is lower than the 50% efficacy in published literature. Many issues and problems arose in the provision and compliance with the ketogenic diet, many of which were unique to our culture. It is critical that this treatment is provided to highly selected children with committed parents.
Lipids are essential components of plasma- and organelle-membranes, not only providing a frame for embedded proteins (e.g., receptors and ion channels) but also functioning as reservoirs for lipid mediators. Increasing evidence indicates that bioactive lipids such as eicosanoids, endocannabinoids, and lysophospholipids serve as intercellular and intracellular signaling molecules participating in physiological and pathological functions in the brain. The discovery of some of these lipid receptors and novel lipid signaling mediators has sparked an intense interest in lipidomic neurobiology research. Classic prostaglandins (PGD(2), PGE(2), PGF(2alpha), PGI(2), and TXA(2)), catalyzed by cyclooxygenases (COX), are synthesized from arachidonic acid (AA). Experimental studies demonstrate that prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)), mainly derived from the COX-2 reaction, is an important mediator, acting as a retrograde messenger via a presynaptic PGE(2) subtype 2 receptor (EP(2)) in modulation of synaptic events. Novel prostaglandins (prostaglandin glycerol esters and prostaglandin ethanolamides) are COX-2 oxidative metabolites of endogenous cannabinoids (2-arachidonyl glycerol and arachidonyl ethanolamide). Recent evidence suggests that these new types of prostaglandins are likely novel signaling mediators involved in synaptic transmission and plasticity. This means that COX- 2 plays a central role in metabolisms of AA and endocannabinoids (eCBs) and productions of AA- and eCB- derived prostaglandins. Thus, in the present review article, the authors will mainly discuss COX-2 regulation of prostaglandin signaling in modulation of hippocampal synaptic transmission and plasticity.
During the development of the nervous system, neurons must first migrate to their appropriate locations and then send out axons to make connections. Various environmental cues guide these migrating neurons and growing axons. After axons reach their target regions, neuronal contacts are created through the formation of synapses. Because excess axonal branches and synaptic contacts are often formed during early development, they are pruned or eliminated at later stages to create specific neuronal connections. Several groups of ligand-receptor pairs have been identified to regulate each of these cellular events. Evidence also indicates that these same molecules may be used in multiple developmental processes. Here, we discuss semaphorins and plexins, the largest family of axon guidance ligand-receptor pairs. Because the roles of semaphorins in neuronal migration and axonal repulsion have been extensively reviewed, we will focus on plexin receptors. We will discuss how semaphorin signals are specifically passed through these receptors into cells and how plexins mediate their newly identified roles in axon pruning and synaptic development.
Neurocognitive science represents the modern approach to integrating the subdisciplines aimed at a scientific study of the brain-mind system. This relatively new discipline recognizes, implicitly or explicitly, that this is a complex system whose states and processes are determined by multiple bio-psycho-social variables and order parameters. In a generic perspective, all neurocognitive science is complex, as it is multidisciplinary, but in some studies, complexity has become a more defined scientific paradigm using its own specific empirical and theoretical tools. Some neuroscientists consider complexity science as a specific and formalized paradigm. Between their contributions, the author will try to highlight some current promising paths and new frontiers for neuroscience. In this perspective, he will mostly focus on those contributions directly related to clinical perspectives. This is the reason why some seminal contributions more focused on physiological functioning might not be mentioned.
In this update, the authors will discuss evidence for both spinal and brain regulation of walking in humans. They will consider the sensory control of walking in young babies and spinal cord-injured adults, two models with weak descending input from the brain, to suggest that subcortical structures are important in shaping walking behavior. Based on evidence from development, the authors suggest that the primitive pattern of walking seen in babies forms the base upon which additional features are added by supraspinal input as independent walking develops. Increasing evidence suggests the motor cortex is important in the control of level-ground walking in adults, in contrast to quadrupeds. This brain input seems particularly important for distal flexors in the leg. Finally, the authors will consider evidence that the recovery of walking after incomplete spinal cord injuries is dependent on the presence of descending input from the motor cortex and our ability to strengthen that input. These findings imply that training methods for improving walking after injury to the nervous system must promote the involvement of both spinal and brain circuits.
The endoscopic technique of instrumentation, correction, and fusion for scoliosis has undergone radical modifications since the first surgery. Some key factors conducive to successful fusion, such as thorough discectomy and end plate removal, are common to endoscopic and non-endoscopic procedures. There are indeed special technical features in our endoscopic approach that clearly affect outcome, however, and their enumeration rightly chronicles the evolution of our experimental undertaking.
C57/BL6 mice were administered either 7.5 mg Fe(2+) (II)/ kg or vehicle (saline) postnatally on Days 10-12 after birth. From 64 days of age onwards for 24 days, groups of mice were administered either haloperidol (0.25 or 1 or 2 mg/kg, s.c.) or vehicle (Tween-80). Twenty-four hours after the final injection of either neuroleptic compound or vehicle, spontaneous motor activity was measured over a 60-min interval. Postnatal Fe(2+)-treatment (7.5 mg/kg, postnatally) reduced motor activity parameters during the initial 20-min periods (0-20 and 20-40 min) and then induced hyperactivity during the final 20-min period over all three parameters of activity, confirming previous observations. Subchronic administration of haloperidol, at the 1 and 2 mg/kg doses, and to a lesser extent the 0.25 mg/kg dose, increased the levels of activity in all three motor activity parameters in postnatal iron-treated mice: locomotion (1st and 2nd 20 min periods), rearing (1st and 2nd 20 min periods) and total activity (1st 20 min period). All three doses of haloperidol abolished the later hyperactivity in iron-treated mice, with the exception of the 0.25 mg/kg dose with regard to rearing behaviour. Apomorphine (1 mg/kg, s.c.)-induced activity was elevated by postnatal iron administration and by subchronic administration of apomorphine at the higher dose levels. In the context of these and other observations, it is suggested that subchronic administration of haloperidol interacting with postnatal iron induces different expressions of dopamine neuron comorbidity underlying movement disorder.
Patients with OCD often meet criteria for additional psychiatric disorders, with the incidence of comorbidity being as high as 75% in some studies. Here we examine the theoretical plausibility that in OCD much of the domain of co-morbid presentations encompasses related perturbations of the security motivation system. According to a recent proposal, the security motivation system represents a biologically primitive special motivation that is activated by potential (as opposed to imminent) danger to self or intimate others and engages a set of specialized species-typical behaviors (such as checking and washing) to handle potential danger. Because the task of security motivation is open ended, in the sense that no consummatory stimuli can exist in the real world to indicate the absence of potential danger, the shutdown of security motivation is produced by a self-generated feeling of knowing, a satiety signal termed yedasentience. In this schema, OCD results from a failure to generate or respond to the yedasentience signal: without this negative feedback the patient persists abnormally long in a strong motivational state having to do with primal, basic threats to existence, a condition that leads to prolonged engagement in security-related behaviors, such as the checking and washing, characteristic of OCD compulsions and obsessions. Considering the proposed neuronatomy of security motivation system and OCD, we discuss the likelihood that the phenomenon of &quot;spread of allied reflexes&quot; can produce other security-related psychiatric conditions, as well as the possibility that disturbances along different pathways of the security motivation system can lead to apparently different disorders.
The prefrontal cortex exerts a potent regulatory influence over subcortical systems that are involved in the regulation of affective states. In particular, the amygdala is a region that is known to play a prominent role in the expression of emotions, and this function is believed to be disrupted in affective disorders and drug abuse. In addition, dysfunction of the prefrontal cortex is believed to be a common element in many psychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia. Using electrophysiological recordings in rodents, we examined the interactions of the prefrontal cortex with the amygdala. Our studies showed that these areas are strongly interdependent, with the prefrontal cortex showing conditioned responses that depend on amygdala inputs, and in turn exerting a potent attenuation of activity within the amygdala. In particular, the ability of the prefrontal cortex to modulate amygdala activity is likely to play an important role in our ability to cope with stressors. We propose that a dysfunction within the prefrontal cortex disrupts the ability of this region to effectively modulate the amygdala, leaving the organism susceptible to detrimental effects of stressors. This would appear to be a common underlying process that may leave the individual susceptible to drug abuse and to the onset or exacerbation of psychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia and depression.
Chronic pain is a major problem for the individual and for society. Despite a range of drugs being available to treat chronic pain, only inadequate pain relief can be achieved for many patients. There is therefore a need for the development of new analgesic compounds. The assessment of pain depends to date entirely on the subjective report of the patient, in contrast to many other clinical conditions where biomarkers that help determine the severity and stage of the disease enable the physician to monitor the course of the disease and treatment effects longitudinally. In this article, we illustrate that magnetic resonance-based imaging techniques have the potential to provide sensitive and specific biomarkers of the pain experience, as well as clarifying disease mechanisms. Functional magnetic resonance imaging (FMRI) is particularly suited to investigating the effects of pharmacological agents on pain processing within the human central nervous system. Combination of FMRI and drug administration is termed pharmacological FMRI (phFMRI). In addition to outlining several methodological considerations that have to be taken into account when performing phFMRI, we discuss phFMRI studies that have already used this technique to study the effects of analgesic compounds. These studies provide promising data for the use of phFMRI as sensitive tool in assessing a potential drug effect. Such pharmacodynamic readouts obtained early in the process of drug development would not only save the pharmaceutical industry substantial amounts of money, but would also avoid the unnecessary exposure of patients to molecules with limited or no therapeutic value. We are therefore optimistic that phFMRI will be used as a tool with high sensitivity and specificity for evaluating analgesic agents in early drug development and clinical studies.

Recent studies have demonstrated that neuropeptide Y (NPY) reduced the neural production of dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) in frog hypothalamic explants. The objective of this study was to assess if DHEA can block the NPY induced increase in food intake in lean and obese Zucker rats. Rats were given one of the following four treatments: sterile water/dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO), NPY/DMSO, water/DHEA, and NPY/DHEA. Immediately after administration of their respective treatment, rats were exposed to macronutrients for 4 h and food intake was monitored. NPY caused a significant increase in total calories consumed compared to control. Co-administration of DHEA along with NPY blocked this NPY dependent effect. These results suggest that DHEA blocks the over-eating in satiated rats induced by NPY. Measurement of changes in regional hypothalamic and raphe monoamine neurotransmitters known to affect food intake suggested a possible role of serotonin fluctuations in the ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH) guiding this behaviour.
Self-adjustment of the gastric band for control of intake is a potential problem. Preoperative psychiatric evaluation is desirable to identify and treat eating disorders and depression, and to indicate surveillance.

Chronic fibromyalgia (FM) pain is prevalent (estimated as high as 13%), predominantly affects women, and is associated with a variety of focal pain conditions. Ongoing FM pain is referred to deep tissues and is described as widespread but usually is maximally located within a restricted region such as the shoulders. Palpation of deep tissues reveals an enhanced nociceptive sensitivity that is not restricted to regions of clinical pain. Similarly, psychophysical testing reveals allodynia and hyperalgesia for cutaneous stimulation at locations beyond regions of clinical pain referral. The combination of widely distributed clinical pain and generalized hypersensitivity is highly disabling, but no satisfactory treatment is regularly prescribed. A thorough understanding of mechanisms will likely be required to develop and document adequate therapies. The generalized hypersensitivity associated with FM has focused considerable interest on central (CNS) mechanisms for the disorder. These include central sensitization, central disinhibition and a dysfunctional hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. However, the central effects associated with FM can be produced by a peripheral source of pain. Chronic nociceptive input induces central sensitization, magnifying pain, and it activates the HPA and the sympathetic nervous system. Chronic sympathetic activation indirectly sensitizes peripheral nociceptors and sets up a vicious cycle. Thus, it appears that central mechanisms of FM pain are dependent on abnormal peripheral input(s) for development and maintenance of this condition. A substantial literature defines peripheral-CNS-peripheral interactions that are integral to FM pain. These reciprocal actions and related phenomena of relevance to FM pain are reviewed here, leading to suggestions for testing of therapeutic approaches.
Parkinson's disease (PD), the second most common neurodegenerative disorder, affects at least 1% of the population over the age of 50. However, very little information is available regarding the molecular basis of PD among Indians. Since the largest number of mutations have been detected in the Parkin gene among all known PD loci, we aim to use Parkin as the candidate gene to assess its role in PD-related pathogenesis in Indian patients. A total of 138 PD patients, with the mean age of onset being 47+/-14 (age range, 5-77 years), and 100 controls were recruited for the study from eastern India. Parkin mutations were detected by amplification of exons of the gene along with the flanking splice junctions by polymerase chain reaction, single-stranded conformation polymorphism and DNA sequencing. A total of 18 nucleotide variants including six novel changes were detected. These include five missense mutations (Gln34Arg, Arg42Cys, Arg42His, Tyr143Cys and Arg334Cys) detected in eight patients in heterozygous condition and a homozygous deletion encompassing exons 3 and 4 in two sibs affected with PD. Clinical features of the Parkin mutants were compared. Among eastern Indian PD patients, mutation in Parkin was identified in 7.24% cases.

Neurotensin (NT) can produce a profound analgesia or enhance pain responses, depending on the circumstances. Recent evidence suggests that this may be due to a dose-dependent recruitment of distinct populations of pain modulatory neurons. NT knockout mice display defects in both basal nociceptive responses and stress-induced analgesia. Stress-induced antinociception is absent in these mice and instead stress induces a hyperalgesic response, suggesting that NT plays a key role in the stress-induced suppression of pain. Cold water swim stress results in increased NT mRNA expression in hypothalamic regions known to project to periaqueductal gray, a key region involved in pain modulation. Thus, stress-induced increases in NT signaling in pain modulatory regions may be responsible for the transition from pain facilitation to analgesia. This review focuses on recent advances that have provided insights into the role of NT in pain modulation.
This study examined the role of retrieval context in implicit priming by manipulating percentage of word-stem index as shallow and deep processing while performing a word-stem completion task. 80 subjects were randomly divided into four groups each of 20 subjects: shallow processing or deep processing with few retrieval indices, and shallow processing or deep processing with many retrieval indices. Analysis indicated that proportion of word-stem completion was significantly higher for studied words than for nonstudied words in all four groups and that the subjects in the groups with many retrieval indices had a significantly increased proportion of word-stem completion between studied and nonstudied words than those in the groups with few retrieval indices. Postquestionnaire analysis indicated that more previously studied items were retrieved if many studied items were available during implicit word-stem completion and that only a small proportion of word-stem completion was finished with studied words by the subjects who were aware of the prior studied and test word relations in all four groups. It was concluded that having more studied words retrievable contributed to more being retrieved and that involuntary awareness had very limited influence on the priming in the implicit word-stem completion.
Advances in neuroscience and biotechnology have heightened the urgency of the debate over &quot;cosmetic psychopharmacology,&quot; the use of drugs to enhance mood and temperament in the absence of illness. Beyond Therapy: Biotechnology and the Pursuit of Happiness (2003), the report of the President's Council on Bioethics, has criticized the use of cosmetic psychopharmacology. The Council claimed that cosmetic psychopharmacology will necessarily lead to &quot;severing the link between feelings of happiness and our actions and experiences in the world,&quot; but it provided no satisfactory arguments to support this claim and ignored the possibility that cosmetic psychopharmacology might actually enhance the link between happiness and experience. The Council's arguments against cosmetic psychopharmacology depend heavily on the mistaken belief that Prozac and similar antidepressants are mood brighteners in healthy subjects. The empirical evidence, however, clearly indicates that these drugs are not forms of cosmetic psychopharmacology, thus negating much of the Council's arguments. The use of pharmaceutical agents to enhance mood or personality in normal individuals should not be rejected a priori. Instead, the effects of each agent on the individual and on society must be weighed using sound ethical reasoning and the best evidence available.
To analyse mechanisms of muscle wasting in intensive care unit patients, we developed an experimental model where rats were pharmacologically paralysed by post-synaptic block of neuromuscular transmission (NMB) and mechanically ventilated for 9+/-2 days. Specific interest was focused on the effects on protein and mRNA expression of sarcomeric proteins, i.e., myosin heavy chain (MyHC), actin, myosin-binding protein C (MyBP-C) and myosin-binding protein H (MyBP-H) in fast- and slow-twitch limb, respiratory and masticatory muscles. Muscle-specific differences were observed in response to NMB at both the protein and mRNA levels. At the protein level, a decreased MyHC-to-actin ratio was observed in all muscles excluding the diaphragm, whereas at the mRNA level a decreased expression of the dominating MyHC isoform(s) was observed in the hind limb and intercostal muscles, but not in the diaphragm and masseter muscles. MyBP-C mRNA expression was decreased in the limb muscles, but it otherwise remained unaffected. MyBP-H conversely increased in all muscles. Furthermore, we found myofibrillar protein and mRNA expression to be affected differently when comparing NMB animals with peripherally denervated (DEN) ambulatory rats. We report that NMB has both a larger and different impact on muscle, at the protein and mRNA levels, than DEN has.
Nifedipine, a calcium channel blocker, can modulate the nociceptive threshold. However, the underlying mechanism, especially the role of HPA axis, on this effect has still not been elucidated. In the present study we investigated the analgesic effect of nifedipine in intact and adrenalectomized (ADX) male rats and we also measured the effect of nifedipine on HPA function. The Tail-Flick test was used to assess the nociceptive threshold before and 15, 30, 60, 90, and 120 min after drug administration. Corticosterone level was measured by radioimmunoassay as a marker of HPA function. Our results showed that in intact and sham operated animals, administration of 10 mg/kg nifedipine induces an antinociceptive effect. But at the dosage of 2 and 5 mg/kg animals do not exhibit this effect. With repeated injections, its analgesic effect was decreased, a phenomenon prevented by adrenalectomy. Acute administration of nifedipine produced significant decrease in plasma corticosterone level. In ADX animals, had a potent antinociceptive effect nifedipine at high dosage (10 mg/kg) as well as at lower dosage (5 mg/kg) that reversed with corticosterone replacement. In conclusion, the results of our study show that the elimination of HPA function through adrenalectomy potentiates the antinociceptive effect of nifedipine and attenuates its analgesic tolerance. Both effects are reversed by corticosterone replacement.
Modern neuroscience advanced our understanding of putative migraine mechanisms, which led to improved therapeutics. Indeed, mechanism-based acute migraine therapy gained steam in the early 1990s after the introduction of the triptans (5-HT1B,D agonists). Post-triptans, novel targets such as calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) antagonists, inhibitors of excitatory glutamatergic receptors, and nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitors are leading the pack in this exploding field of discovery research. In contrast, novel therapeutic targets for migraine prevention are lacking despite a hugely unmet need. To date, migraine prophylactic drugs are advanced based on expanded indications for already approved pharmaceuticals (e.g., topiramate, valproate, propranolol, and timolol). An improved understanding of the predisposition to an attack, genomic discoveries, valid and reliable biomarkers and surrogates, and predictive preclinical models likely will unravel the neuronal substrates for central hyperexcitability and nociceptive dysmodulation, hopefully leading us to better mechanism-based targets for prevention, and ultimately yielding drugs with optimal therapeutic ratios or indices.
The etiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is still unknown. In addition, this terrible neurodegenerative disease will increase exponentially over the next two decades due to longer lifespan and an aging &quot;baby-boomer&quot; generation. All treatments currently approved for AD have moderate efficacy in slowing the rate of cognitive decline in patients, and no efficacy in halting progression of the disease. Hence, there is an urgent need for new drug targets and delivery methods to slow or reverse the progression of AD. One molecule that has received much attention in its potential therapeutic role in AD is nerve growth factor (NGF). This review will demonstrate data from humans and animals which promote NGF as a potential therapeutic target by (1) outlining the hypothesis behind using NGF for the treatment of AD, (2) reviewing both the normal and AD altered signaling pathways and effects of NGF in the central nervous system (CNS), and (3) examining the results of NGF treatment obtained from animal models of AD and AD patients.
Fish is a food with unique psychotropic properties. Consumption of long-chain omega-3 fatty acids, rich in seafood, reduces depression, aggression and anger while improving mental well-being. We posit that symbols of fish have become linked to the emotional states induced by long-chain fatty acid by associative pairings, both conscious and unconscious. The limbic and hippocampal activity necessary for memory formation containing emotional content and the labeling of social context by cortical processes appears to be optimized by diets rich in long-chain omega-3 fatty acid. In this critical literature survey, we find that fish have been culturally labeled as symbols of emotional well-being and social healing in religious and medical practices among independent cultures, for at least six millennia. This understanding of the perception of fish as a symbolically healing or purifying food can assist current messages improving public health.
The human polyomavirus JC virus (JCV) is responsible for the CNS demyelination observed in cases of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. The JCV regulatory region (promoter) is a hypervariable, noncoding, nucleotide sequence positioned between the early and late protein-coding regions in the viral genome. Selective binding of cellular transcription factors to this promoter region participates in the control of viral tropism. Hence, further study of these proteins might provide new insights into JCV tropism and associated pathogenesis. This review gives an overview of viral proteomics - the study of all proteins expressed from the viral gene transcripts, and all the cellular proteins that play a role in JCV tropism. It also describes a new biochemical approach for studying relevant JCV promoter-binding proteins, which is an anchored-JCV transcriptional promoter (ATP) assay. An ATP assay utilizes the product of PCR-amplified JCV promoter sequences coupled with Sepharose beads in order to capture and isolate cellular nuclear proteins with specific promoter-binding affinity for analysis. Proteins that bind to JCV-ATPs can be eluted and subjected to proteomic analysis. Insights from this approach may improve the understanding of viral and cellular parameters that control JCV tropism.
This paper presents the work of philosopher Susanne Langer and argues that her conceptualization of the human mind can provide psychoanalysts with a unique framework with which to theoretically combine interpretive and biological approaches to their work. Langer's earlier work in the philosophy of symbols directs her investigation into the biological sciences along the lines of sentience and imagination, which in turn become the cornerstones of her theory of mind. Langer's understanding of the continuing transformation of affect into language is a decisive contribution yet to be built upon by others.
The prevalence of burnout in oncology staff was compared with that of the ophthalmology staff, who normally present a low prevalence of burnout as described in this literature. The correlation of burnout with the emotion of anger was also investigated. Thirty-six subjects working in an oncology department and 32 working in an ophthalmology department were examined using the Maslach Burnout Inventory and the State-Trait Anger Expression Inventory. The oncology group showed higher mean scores on the MBI Emotive Exhaustion and Depersonalization scales with respect to ophthalmology staff. Correlation analysis showed that increasing burnout was associated with higher anger expressed towards the environment and loss of anger control. Anger, as a response to frustration, appears to be a feature constantly associated with the clinical expression of burnout and it should not be underestimated in theoretical and preventive contexts.
From a neuroscience perspective, little is known about the long-term effect of torture. Dissociative experiences and posttraumatic stress disorder are often the results of this experience. We examined psychological dissociation within a group of 23 torture victims and report its manifestations within neural networks in the human brain. In particular, we observed that dissociative experiences are associated with slow abnormal brain waves generated in left ventrolateral frontal cortex. Given that focal slow waves often result from depriving neural networks of major input, the present results may indicate decoupling of frontal affective processors from left cortical language areas. This interpretation is consistent with the fact that disturbed access to structured verbal memory concerning traumatic events is a core feature of the dissociative experience.
Acute tryptophan depletion (ATD) is a technique that has been used to evaluate the effects on humans of acutely reducing serotonin neurotransmission. We have developed a model using a single breath of 35% CO(2) that activates the hormonal axis and produces autonomic and behavioural arousal, thus modelling a stress response. This study combines ATD and single breath 35% CO(2) inhalation to study stress responses in volunteers. A randomised, double-blinded, placebo-controlled, cross-over trial involving 14 healthy adult volunteers aged between 18 and 65 years was undertaken. Subjects underwent double-blind tryptophan depletion over 2 days and were then crossed over 1 week later. During each study day, at the time of peak depletion, participants were single blinded to receive a single breath of 35% CO(2) or air. This was followed 40 min later by the other gas. Psychological outcomes were assessed with the Spielberger State Anxiety Inventory (SSAI), Visual Analogue Scales (VAS), Panic Inventory (PI), Panic and Agoraphobia Scale (PSI) and Beck Depression Inventory (BDI). Physiological outcome was measured by serial plasma cortisol, prolactin and tryptophan levels, pulse and blood pressure. Tryptophan depletion did not exacerbate 35% CO(2) inhalation effects on anxiety symptoms. Single breath CO(2) robustly increased plasma cortisol levels in comparison to an air inhalation; this was less certain for prolactin levels. ATD influenced the HPA axis (associated with higher cortisol levels), apparently independent of CO(2) or air inhalation stressors. ATD and 35% CO(2) inhalation both induced a pressor response and bradycardia in these normal volunteers. Thirty-five percent CO(2) inhalation and ATD independently activate the human stress response, but do not appear to produce synergistic effects when combined, at least for the conditions produced in this study.




Memory disorders observed in Alzheimer's disease gave rise, from the eighties, to a detailed analysis into the framework of cognitive neuropsychology which aimed at describing the deficits of very specific processes. Beyond their clinical interest, these studies contributed to the modelisation of human memory thanks to the characterization of different memory systems and their relationships. The first part of this paper gives an overview of the memory deficits in Alzheimer's disease and insists on particular cognitive phenomena. Hence, several examples are developed in the domains of semantic memory (such as hyperpriming and hypopriming effects) and autobiographical memory. Recent results highlight the existence of severe autobiographical amnesia observed in all neurodegenerative diseases, though with contrasting profiles: Ribot's gradient in Alzheimer's disease (showing that remote memories are better preserved than recent ones), reverse gradient in semantic dementia and no clear gradient in the frontal variant of frontotemporal dementia. The second part of this article presents advances in cognitive neuroscience searching to disclose the cerebral substrates of these cognitive deficits in Alzheimer's disease. The studies using functional imaging techniques are the most informative regarding this problematic. While showing the dysfunctions of an extended network, they emphasize the selectivity of cerebral damages that are at the root of very specific cognitive dysfunctions, coming close in that way to the conceptions of cognitive neuropsychology. These neuroimaging studies unravel the existence of compensatory mechanisms, which until recently were clearly missing in the literature on neurodegenerative diseases. These different researches lead to a wide conception of human memory, not just limited to simple instrumental processes (encoding, storage, retrieval), but necessarily covering models of identity and continuity of the subject, which interact in a dynamic way with eminently changing memory representations.

Increased risk of osteoarthritis has been found among athletes active in different kinds of sports. Knee injury is an established risk factor for knee osteoarthritis. In this population-based case-control study we investigated the risk of knee osteoarthritis with respect to sports activity and previous knee injuries. A total of 825 cases with x-ray-verified femorotibial osteoarthritis were identified at six hospitals in southern Sweden. The cases were matched (age, sex and residential area) with 825 controls from the general population. Mailed questionnaire data on sports activity for more than 1 year after the age of 16, knee injuries and confounding variables (weight, height, heredity, smoking and occupation) were collected and analyzed using logistic regression models. The response frequency was 89%. Among men knee osteoarthritis was related to soccer (odds ratio (OR) 1.6, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.1-2.2), ice hockey (OR 1.9, 95% CI 1.2-3.0) and tennis (OR 2.0, 95% CI 1.1-3.8) but not to track and field sports, cross-country skiing, and orienteering. After adjustment for confounding variables soccer and ice hockey remained significantly related to knee osteoarthritis, but after adjustment for knee injuries no significant relation remained. The sports-related increased risk for knee osteoarthritis was explained by knee injuries.

Individuals with schizophrenia show magnocellular visual pathway abnormalities similar to those described in dyslexia, predicting that reading disturbance should be a common concomitant of schizophrenia. To date, however, reading deficits have not been well established, and, in fact, reading is often thought to be normal in schizophrenia based upon results of tests such as the WRAT, which evaluate single word reading. This study evaluated &quot;real world&quot; reading ability in schizophrenia, relative to functioning of the magnocellular visual pathway. Standardized psychoeducational reading tests and contrast sensitivity measures were administered to 19 patients and 10 controls. Analyses of between group differences were further refined by classification of participants into reading vs. non-reading impaired groups using a priori and derived theoretical models. Patients with schizophrenia, as a group, showed highly significant impairments in reading (p&lt;0.04-p&lt;0.001), with particular deficits on tests of rate, comprehension and phonological awareness. Between 21% and 63% of patients met criteria for dyslexia depending upon diagnostic model vs. 0-20% of the controls. The degree of deficit correlated significantly with independent measures of magnocellular dysfunction. Reading impairment in schizophrenia reaches the level of dyslexia and is associated with compromised magnocellular processing as hypothesized. Findings related to symptoms, functioning and recommendations for reading ability assessment are discussed.

Traditional neuropsychological tests of visual and verbal memory have been used to evaluate memory deficits in schizophrenia. However, these tests cannot be used in non-human animal research, which is important for the discovery of treatments that will improve cognition and for study of the etiology of schizophrenia. To help bridge the gap between human and non-human animal research on hippocampal function in schizophrenia, this study sought to characterize the behavioral performance exhibited by patients using the Morris water task (MWT). The MWT has been shown in human and non-human animal studies to be hippocampus-dependent. In the virtual MWT, human subjects navigate a computer-generated on-screen environment to escape from the &quot;water&quot; by locating a platform. Patients with schizophrenia and controls performed two versions of the virtual MWT: a hippocampal-dependent hidden-platform version, relying on allocentric navigational abilities, and a non-hippocampal-dependent visible-platform version, relying on cued-navigational abilities. Patients traveled further and took longer to find the hidden platform over training blocks and spent less time in the correct quadrant during a probe trial. There was no deficit in the visible-platform condition. These findings identify a behavioral impairment on a hippocampal-dependent task in schizophrenia and support using the MWT in testing animal models of schizophrenia.
Cognitive Remediation Therapy (CRT) is a novel rehabilitation approach designed to improve neurocognitive abilities such as attention, memory and executive functioning. The aim of the present study is to evaluate the effect of CRT on neurocognition, and secondarily on symptomatology and psychosocial functioning. Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT) was used as a control condition because it aims to improve emotional problems and positive symptoms, focusing on modification of maladaptive beliefs and schemas, but neurocognition is not targeted. A total of 40 chronic patients with DSM-IV schizophrenia disorder were randomly assigned for 4 months to one of two treatment groups: CRT or CBT. Repeated assessments were conducted before and after the treatments and at the end of a follow-up period of 6 months. Additionally, a method to establish reliable change was calculated from a separate sample of 20 schizophrenic patients who were under standard medication without any kind of psychological treatment. Results showed that CRT produced an overall improvement on neurocognition (Mean effect size=0.5), particularly in verbal and nonverbal memory, and executive function. CBT showed the expected treatment effect on general psychopathology (anxiety and depression) but produced only a slight non-specific improvement in neurocognition (Working Memory). Furthermore, patients receiving CRT showed improvement in social functioning, demonstrating that cognitive improvements are clinically meaningful. These gains were still present at the 6 month follow-up.

The present study was conducted to evaluate scopolamine-induced convulsions in fasted mice after food intake effects on the cortical electroencephalogram (EEG). Continuous EEG recordings were taken with Neuroscan for 10 min in freely moving mice with six chronic cortical electrode implants. Animals were weighed and deprived of food for 48 h. EEG recordings were taken at the 24th and 48th hour after their food deprivations. Later, all animals were treated with saline or scopolamine of 3mg/kg i.p. and EEG recordings were repeated for 10 min. Twenty minutes later, they were given food pellets and were allowed to eat ad libitum. All animals were observed for 60 min to determine the incidence and onset of convulsions and EEG recordings were taken simultaneously. The present results demonstrate that food deprivation causes differences in EEG in the elapsed time. The changes in EEG induced after food deprivation become different with scopolamine administration. In scopolamine treatment group, eating caused a series of high-voltage polyspikes and synchronized spikes with a predominant frequency in the 1-3 Hz range and fast activity that represents a typical epileptiform manifestation. It was concluded that the EEG properties and the behavioral patterns of these convulsions are in accordance with each other.
The capsaicin receptor TRPV1 is an emerging target for the treatment of pain with a unique expression profile in peripheral nociceptors and the ability to show polymodal activation, TRPV1 is an important integrator of responses to inflammatory mediators. Sensitization of TRPV1 during chronic pain is believed to contribute to the transduction of noxious signaling for normally innocuous stimuli and consequently the search for novel TRPV1 therapeutics is intense. The current understanding of the physiological role the receptor, as well as the potential therapeutic utility and emerging liabilities of TRPV1 modulators are discussed.
The voltage-gated calcium channels (VGCCs) are a large and functionally diverse group of ion channels found throughout the central nervous system (CNS) and the periphery. Neuronal functions include the control of neurotransmitter release and neuronal excitability in important pain pathways. In the current review we will give an overview of the data that has been generated in support of these channels performing a pivotal role in the pain pathway.
Pain is an important survival and protection mechanism for animals. However, chronic/persistent pain may be differentiated from normal physiological pain in that it confers no obvious advantage. An accumulating body of pharmacological, electrophysiological, and behavioral evidence is emerging in support of the notion that glutamate receptors play a crucial role in pain pathways and that modulation of glutamate receptors may have potential for therapeutic utility in several categories of persistent pain, including neuropathic pain resulting from injury and/or disease of central (e.g., spinal cord injury) or peripheral nerves (e.g., diabetic neuropathy, radiculopathy) and inflammatory or joint-related pain (e.g., rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis). This review focuses on the role of glutamate receptors, including both ionotropic (AMPA, NMDA and kainate) and metabotropic (mGlu1-8) receptors in persistent pain states with particular emphasis on their expression patterns in nociceptive pathways and their potential as targets for pharmacological intervention strategies.
Both energy failure and infections are important risk factors for brain injury in term and preterm infants. In this review we focus on recent experimental studies that have examined the effects of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) exposure to the fetus or neonate and the interaction of LPS with other events. Intracerebral LPS injections induce a marked cerebral cytokine response and prominent white matter lesions. LPS administered intravenously to the fetus also induces gross lesions, which are mainly localised to the white matter and are accompanied by activation of inflammatory cells. Cerebral effects following fetal LPS exposure via more distant routes, such as intracervical, intrauterine or maternal LPS administration, are characterised by reductions in oligodendrocyte or myelin markers without macroscopic lesions being evident. Both antenatal and neonatal LPS exposures increase the sensitivity of the brain to subsequent hypoxic/ischaemic events, even in adulthood. These studies suggest that fetal inflammation is the strongest predictor of brain lesions.

Childhood maltreatment is a common and serious problem for women, particularly in relation to impairment in adulthood. To our knowledge, no system-wide study has addressed the influence of childhood maltreatment on the cost of these women's adult health service utilization. This paper examines this relationship. The 1990 Ontario Health Survey (OHS) gathered information regarding determinants of physical health status and the use of health services. The 1991 Ontario Mental Health Supplement (OHSUP) examined a variety of childhood experiences as well as the prevalence of psychiatric disorders from a sample of OHS respondents. These were province-wide population health surveys of a probability-based sample of persons aged 15 years and older living in household dwellings in Ontario. The OHSUP randomly selected one member from each participating OHS household to be interviewed regarding personal experiences and mental health. This analysis used data from women aged 15-64 who participated in both the OHS and OHSUP. Self-reported health service utilization was collected in four groups of women--those who reported no history of child abuse, those with a history of physical abuse only, those who reported sexual abuse only, and those who reported both physical and sexual (combined) abuse. We hypothesized that a history of child abuse would result in greater adult health care costs. The results indicated that having a history of combined abuse nearly doubles mean annual ambulatory self-reported health care costs to 775 dollars (95% CI 504 dollars-1045 dollars) compared to a mean cost of 400 dollars with no abuse (95% CI 357 dollars-443 dollars). Median annual ambulatory self-reported health care costs were also increased in the combined abuse group, to 314 dollars (95% CI 220 dollars-429 dollars), compared to 138 dollars (95% CI 132 dollars-169 dollars) in those with no abuse. We conclude that child abuse in women is significantly associated with increased adult self-reported health care costs.
This study estimates the relative importance to child health (indicated by weight and height for age) of economic development level [gross domestic product (GDP) converted to international dollars using purchasing power parity (PPP) rates: GDP-PPP], household wealth and maternal education and examines the modifying influence of national contexts on these estimates. It uses information collected from mothers aged 15-49-years participating in Demographic Health Surveys (DHS) conducted in 42 developing countries. In multilevel regression models, the three study variables exhibited strong independent associations with child health: GDP-PPP accounted for the largest amount of unique variation, followed by maternal education and household wealth. There was also substantial overlap (shared variance) between maternal education and the other two study variables. The regressions of child health on household wealth and maternal education exhibited substantial cross-national variation in both strength and form of association. Although higher education levels were associated with disproportionately greater returns to child health, the pattern for household wealth was erratic: in many countries there were diminishing returns to child health at higher levels of household wealth. We conclude that there are inextricable links among different strategies for improving child health and that policy planners, associating benefits with these strategies, must take into account the strong moderating impact of national context.



The neuroprotective effects of 17beta-estradiol (E2) were investigated using an in vitro model of traumatic brain injury in which cortical neuronal cultures were subjected to mechanical strain-injury. The rise in intracellular calcium ([Ca(2+)](i)) following neuronal injury was reduced by addition of 10 or 100 nM E2 to the cultures immediately following injury. Neuronal damage was measured 24 h after injury by propidium iodide uptake and cell viability by carboxyfluorescein diacetate uptake. Addition of 1, 10, or 100 nM E2 to cell cultures immediately following injury decreased neuronal damage and increased neuronal viability compared to vehicle-treated neurons. These results demonstrate the neuroprotective activity of E2 in an in vitro model of neuronal injury, and suggest that such effects may be related to the ability of E2 to modulate [Ca(2+)](i).
The existence of links between Alzheimer's disease and diabetes is an important topic currently under active debate. Establishing such links if they exist and defining their common pathogenesis and pathophysiological mechanisms may lead to new concepts and research directions for the pharmacological treatment of Alzheimer's disease and diabetes. Alzheimer's disease is associated with peripheral and central insulin abnormalities. Cognitive capacities are often impaired in patients with diabetes. There are many mechanisms by which insulin-signaling abnormalities may affect clinical and pathological outcome of Alzheimer's disease. Insulin resistance and dysregulation of the degradation of neurotoxic amyloid and insulin appear at the core of the links between Alzheimer's disease and diabetes. Functions and expression of insulysin, an enzyme involved in the degradation of neurotoxic amyloid peptides and insulin, are usually impaired or reduced in Alzheimer's disease and diabetes. The increased occurrence of insulin resistance in Alzheimer's disease suggests that improving insulin effectiveness and insulysin activity may have therapeutic value in Alzheimer's disease patients and therefore is worth intensive investigation.
In various forms of injury involving the renal glomerulus, mesangial cells are exposed to potentially toxic concentrations of nitric oxide (NO) caused by activation of the inducible isoform of nitric oxide synthase (NOS). Whether mesangial cells possess systems that can defend against NO mediated oxidative injury is unknown. One putative system is Metallothionein (MT). Metallothioneins constitute a family of cysteine proteins and play a significant role as anti-oxidants. The authors assessed whether NO upregulates MT-I expression in cultured glomerular mesangial cells. Northern blot analysis revealed that steady state MT-I mRNA levels were increased by three different NO donors: sodium nitroprusside (SNP), S-nitroso-N-acetyl-DL-penicillamine (SNAP), and Spermine-NONOate (Sper/NO). The increase in MT-I mRNA levels induced by SNAP-derived NO was attenuated by the antioxidant N-acetylcysteine (NAC), a glutathione (GSH) precursor, which indicates that the mechanism of NO-mediated MT-I expression may involve an oxidative stress response. These observations identify MT-I as a putative antioxidant system in NO-mediated mesangial cell injury.
The reproducibility and reliability of DNA array measurements have been repeatedly questioned during the years. A reassessment of fundamental variables of nucleic acid hybridization might help to solve some of these problems. The hybridization equilibrium, t(1/2), is 41 days for a target human genome. Similar hybridization t(1/2) are expected for whole-transcriptome chips hybridized with tissue cDNA. This implies that most studies on mammalian cells have not been performed under equilibrium conditions. Non-equilibrium binding introduces a stochastic factor into hybridization dynamics; in other words, hybridization will prevail at different spots in different experiments, everything else being equal. A careful re-evaluation of results obtained under non-equilibrium conditions might prove fruitful and help to explain instances where findings conflict.
Many hormones, neurotransmitters and growth factors influence their target cells by activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase cascades. The consequences of such activation reflect not only the magnitude, but also the kinetics and cellular compartmentalization of kinase activity. Gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) receptors are seven-transmembrane receptors that have undergone a period of rapidly accelerated molecular evolution in which the advent of type I mammalian GnRH receptors has been associated with the loss of the carboxyl-terminal tail, a structure present in all other seven-transmembrane receptors. Here, we review spatiotemporal aspects of extracellular-signal-regulated kinase activation by gonadotropin-releasing hormone receptors, emphasizing how the absence or presence of the carboxyl-terminal tail dictates the receptors' ability to engage and signal via arrestins.
Down syndrome (DS) has been recognized as a clinical entity for about 150 years, but it is only recently that there has been hope for the possibility to understand its pathogenesis and to use this information to devise approaches for the prevention and treatment of its numerous features. The earlier pessimism was due to several reasons, including: (i) the nature of the genetic defect that leads to the syndrome; (ii) the multiplicity of systems involved; and (iii) the high degree of variability of the phenotype. However, science has now caught up with the problem, and recent developments, especially in genetics, genomics, developmental biology and neuroscience, suggest that these potential impediments might not be as arduous as once appeared. As a result, basic research on DS is now rapidly accelerating, and there is hope that the findings will be translatable into benefit for people with DS.
Whereas anorexia is a common behavioral response to infectious diseases, the reasons for and mechanisms behind this observation are still unknown. When it is considered on an evolutionary basis, the organism must have net benefits from anorexia. The first response to infection is the development of acute phase response (APR). The APR is triggered by microbial products and characterized by production of several cytokines known to induce anorexia. Several microbial products and cytokines reduce food intake after parenteral administration, suggesting a role of these substances in the anorexia during infection. Locally released cytokines may inhibit feeding by activating peripheral sensory fibers directly or indirectly, and without a concomitant increase in circulating cytokines. However, the final center for appetite or eating is the central nervous system (CNS). Thus, these peripheral signals must reach and interact with brain regions that control appetite. In addition, a direct action of cytokines and microbial products on the CNS is presumably involved in the anorexia during infection.
To determine whether noradrenaline (NA) is an essential neurotransmitter for addictive and appetitive behaviors, we measured drug and food seeking in transgenic mice lacking dopamine beta-hydroxylase (Dbh), the enzyme responsible for synthesizing NA. Using the conditioned place preference test (CPP), we show that Dbh -/- mice do not exhibit rewarding behavior to morphine, cocaine, or the mixed reuptake inhibitor bupropion. In spite of their lack of preference for drugs, Dbh -/- mice had an unaltered preference for food. Drug seeking was induced when NA was restored to the central nervous system of Dbh -/- mice by administration of l-threo-3,4-dihydroxyphenylserine (DOPS) and carbidopa. When a NK1 receptor antagonist was co-administered with morphine or cocaine, it produced aversive behavior in Dbh -/- mice while it abolished place preference in the controls. NK1 antagonists alone did not have any rewarding or aversive effect in the CPP suggesting that substance P opposes some of the unpleasant effects of morphine and cocaine. Our results show that NAergic transmission is necessary for motivated behaviors, the dysregulation of which is a co-morbid factor of many depressive states. The reversibility of this phenomenon, by restoring NA, indicates that even when this behavioral deficit is genetically determined it can be reversed.
In animals with specialized foveae, eye position has a direct influence over the acquisition of detailed visual information. At the same time, eye movements executed during natural behaviors are closely linked with motor actions. In this study, we investigated patterns of eye movements during a simple visual discrimination task. Three rhesus monkeys learned to recognize images of real world objects with no explicit constraints on eye position. Analysis of the monkeys' eye movements showed that although the endpoint of the initial saccade depended on the particular visual stimulus, the trajectory of the first saccades also reliably predicted the manual response associated with that stimulus. We thus observed that initial saccades executed in a recognition task reflect both perceptual and motor aspects of a visual task. This pattern of eye movements emerged spontaneously in all three animals tested despite the fact that saccades were never explicitly rewarded. As the average saccade latency was under 200ms, object specific learned associations must have exerted their influence over the initial saccade even earlier, providing a novel temporal marker for the rapidity of visual recognition processes. Taken together, these results suggest that caution should be exercised when interpreting the meaning of oculomotor patterns observed during perceptual tasks, as these blur the line between perceptual processing and motor preparation.
We propose a model of visual search to address the hitherto unresolved issue of reconciling serial deployment of attention accounts with inter-item similarity effects. Target-distractor and distractor-distractor similarity were systematically varied in 85 (17x5) set type-size conditions over seven experiments, including univariate feature and bivariate conjunction search. The model, a power (square root) function of dimension-specific target-distractor and distractor-distractor similarity in linear combination with set size, accounted for 98% of the variance on type-size means. It suggests that much of efficient and inefficient search can be unified under a single theory involving item similarity.
Visual perception is strongly shaped by the spatial context in which stimuli are presented. Using center-surround configurations with oriented stimuli, recent studies suggest that voluntary attention critically determines which stimuli in the surround affect the percept of the central stimulus. However, evidence for attentional influences on center-surround interactions is restricted to the spatial selection of few among several surround stimuli of different orientations. Here, we extend these insights of center-surround interactions to the motion domain and show that the influence of surround information is critically shaped by feature-based attention. We used motion repulsion as an experimental test tool. When a central target motion was surrounded by a ring of motion, subjects misperceived the direction of the foveal target for particular center-surround direction differences (repulsion condition). Adding an appropriate second motion in the surround counterbalanced the effect, eliminating the repulsion. Introducing feature-based attention to one of the two superimposed directions of motion in the surround reinstated the strong contextual effects. The task relevance of the attended surround motion component effectively induced a strong motion repulsion on the foveally presented stimulus. In addition, the task relevance of the foveal stimulus also induced motion repulsion on the attended surround direction of motion. Our results show that feature-based attention to the surround strongly modulates the veridical perception of a foveally presented motion. The observed attentional effects reflect a feature-based mechanism affecting human perception, by modulating spatial interactions among sensory information and enhancing the attended direction of motion.
According to the scale-dependence hypothesis, the visual interpolation of contour fragments depends on the retinal separation of endpoints: as the retinal size of a partially occluded angle increases, the interpolated contour gradually deviates from the shortest connecting path and approaches the shape of the unoccluded angle. In the field model, as the retinal size increases the strength of good continuation increases while the strength of the minimal-path tendency decreases. To test the scale-dependence hypothesis--as well as other hypotheses connected to inclusion, support-ratio dependence, and extended relatability--we ran two experiments using the probe localization technique. Stimuli were regular polygons with rectilinear contours bounding symmetrically occluded angles. Retinal size was manipulated by changing viewing distance. Observers were asked to judge if a probe, briefly superposed on the occlusion region, was inside or outside the amodally completed angle. Retinal size strongly influenced the penetration of interpolated trajectories in the predicted direction. However, support ratio and interpolated angle size interacted with retinal size, consistently with the idea that unification factors are effective within a spatial window. We modified the field model to include the size of such a window as a new parameter and generated model-based trajectories that fitted empirical data closely.
We report data from eight participants who made alignment judgements between a moving object and a stationary, continuously visible 'landmark'. A reversing object had to overshoot the landmark by a significant amount in order to appear to reverse aligned with it. In addition, an adjacent flash irrelevant to the judgment task reliably increased this illusory 'foreshortening'. This and other results are most simply explained by a model in which the flash causes attentional capture, complemented by processes of temporal integration, or backward inhibition, and object representation. A flash used to probe the perception of a moving object's position disrupts that very perception.

The water maze is one of the most frequently used tools in behavioral neuroscience. Many variations of the water maze task have been used; however, established water maze protocols have several disadvantages. Notably, these protocols demand considerable time to perform reference and probe tests separately. Here, we suggest a modified protocol, which is rapidly performed, is sensitive to cognitive deficits, and can assay reference as well as strategy-switching ability. The platform is relocated randomly within the target quadrant with each training trial. Because the rodents must spend more time searching within the target quadrant, every trial effectively becomes a probe trial. The rodents are then run in the switching strategy test, where the platform is randomly placed along the wall of the pool. The best new strategy would thus be to search along the walls of the pool systematically. The percent distance traveled and time spent near the wall is evaluated across trials, as is the distance traveled and time spent in the previously correct quadrant. In this way one can assess whether the rodent is continuing to search in the older platform location (i.e., displaying a strategy-switching problem) or whether it has successfully adopted a new search strategy.
We describe a new apparatus for studying trunk motor control. Quasi-isometric trunk forces are exerted in any horizontal direction while seated, with or without the pelvis stabilised. Trunk force magnitude and direction are measured using a novel transducing system. In addition, reaction forces between the buttocks and the seat and between each foot and the ground are measured with three force plates. Twenty-four healthy subjects exerted maximal forces in eight directions, with and without pelvis fixation. Accuracy of trunk force measurements was assessed by comparing them with reaction force measurements. The agreement analysis showed a small mean bias of the new system of -3.0 N for force magnitude and 0.72 degrees for force direction. The trunk force measurement system was sensitive enough to detect effects of movement direction and pelvis fixation on maximum force magnitude. When subjects repeated the test at a later date there were no significant differences between the two sessions. In conclusion, the new device allows measurement of static and dynamic aspects of voluntary trunk activation in multiple directions while seated and provides reproducible measurements for application to longitudinal studies. The method should prove useful for quantifying deficits and recovery of trunk motor control following neurological damage.
Segmentation guidelines on high-resolution MRI designed to assess remaining volumes of the hippocampus and the parahippocampal cortices after medial temporal lobe (MTL) surgery could provide a useful tool to investigate the involvement of these anatomical regions in surgical outcomes and in human memory. For this purpose, we implemented an MRI volumetric analysis, already applied to healthy population or epileptic patient before surgery, to quantify the volume of the hippocampus, the temporopolar cortex and the regions of the parahippocampal gyrus (perirhinal, entorhinal and parahippocampal cortices) spared after unilateral MTL resection carried out to treat medically uncontrolled temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). Based on the locations of remaining anatomical landmarks, we quantified the volume of these regions in 24 patients after MTL resection and in 16 control participants. Our results show that (1) mean volumes of these regions contralateral to the epileptic focus were similar to those of normal subjects, (2) volumetric measures obtained from the resected side were much smaller than those from the non-resected side or from normal values and (3) the extent of MTL resection was comparable in right or left MTL surgery. Individual analysis of patients showed that the parahippocampal cortex, as opposed to the other regions, was not systematically removed across patients. As a post-operative MRI-based method, it therefore proves valuable to assess group data as well as to explore differences between individual patients.
A variety of intraluminal sutures have been used in the middle cerebral artery occlusion model (MCAO) of focal ischemia. In the present study we tested commercially available silicon-coated nylon suture in the MCAO model and compared the results to traditional monofilament nylon suture occlusion. Twelve Sprague-Dawley male rats were randomly divided two groups, MCAO with 4-0 nylon suture (Group N, n=6) and MCAO with silicone-coated 4-0 nylon suture (Group S, n=6). Rats were sacrificed 24 h after reperfusion. Assessment included mortality rates, neurological evaluation, and infarct volume. One rat died in each group from subarachanoid hemorrhage. Neurological evaluation demonstrated that Group S tended to have worse neurological outcomes than Group N, although this difference was not statistically significant. On TTC stain Group S had significantly larger infarct volumes than Group N. We conclude that the commercially available silicone-coated occlusion suture provides better occlusion of the middle cerebral artery than the traditional uncoated nylon suture. Classification: Disease-related neuroscience (Section 6).
The amygdala has a role in the modulation of moods and emotion, processes that are known to be affected in people with psychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia and depression. The tachykinin NK(1) receptor is known to be expressed in the amygdala. However to date, there is limited knowledge of the distribution of the NK(1) receptor in this region. This study used immunohistochemistry to analyse the distribution of the NK(1) receptor in fixed human amygdala tissue in control subjects with no history of psychiatric illness and matched subjects with a diagnosis of schizophrenia (n=4 pairs). The NK(1) receptor was observed sparsely distributed in cell bodies in all amygdaloid nuclei with the basolateral and lateral having a greater relative density of NK(1) receptor-immunoreactive cell bodies than the other nuclei. Double labelling with antibodies to microtubule associated protein and the NK(1) receptor revealed that the NK(1) receptor is expressed by large pyramidal, small stellate and large bipolar neurons. Interestingly, the basal nucleus of Meynert, which is just dorsal to the amygdala, was observed to have a significantly higher relative density of NK(1) receptor-immunoreactive cell bodies compared to any of the amygdaloid nuclei. Preliminary analysis of the density of NK(1) receptor-immunoreactive cell bodies in the major amygdaloid nuclei and the basal nucleus of Meynert revealed no significant differences between schizophrenia and control subjects. Real-time PCR showed that the mRNA for both the short and long isoforms of the NK(1) receptor was expressed at low levels in fresh frozen human amygdala tissue from control subjects and that this was not different in matched subjects with schizophrenia (n=11 pairs). In conclusion, this study has demonstrated that the NK(1) receptor is widely distributed in the amygdala, and has shown for the first time a high relative density of NK(1) receptor-immunoreactive cell bodies in the basal nucleus of Meynert.
This study investigated the involvement of H(1) and H(2) histaminegic receptors on the acquisition of a new task in Carassius auratus by using an inhibitory avoidance paradigm in which the animals had to learn to avoid an aversive stimulus. Before training, the fish received injections of H(2) antagonist zolantidine at a dose of 20 mg/kg, or H(1) antagonist chlorpheniramine at a dose of 4 or 16 mg/kg. Control animals were injected with distilled water. A facilitatory effect of chlorpheniramine was observed at the dose of 16 mg/kg. On the other hand, the administration of 20 mg/kg of zolantidine inhibited acquisition. Place preference conditioning was used to observe the aversive or reinforcing effects of the drugs, which could interfere with the inhibitory avoidance procedure; however, no effects were observed. Thus, it can be suggested that both receptors, H(1) and H(2), are involved in the acquisition of a new task in this species.
The neurotransmitter glutamate and its associated receptors perform an important role in the brain circuitry underlying normal fear processing. The glutamate NMDA receptor, in particular, is necessary for the acquisition and recollection of conditioned-fear responses. Here the authors examine how acute blockage of the NMDA receptor with sub-anaesthetic doses of ketamine affects behavioural assays of fear-conditioned stress (e.g. freezing) and cFos expression in a network of brain areas that have previously been implicated in fear processing. Fear-conditioned rats displayed significantly more freezing behaviour than non-conditioned controls. In fear-conditioned rats that also received ketamine, this conditioning effect was largely neutralised. Fear conditioning also led to increased cFos expression in various areas central to fear processing, including the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala, the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus and the anterior cingulate. Ketamine abolished such increases in cFos expression in most brain areas investigated. The present study therefore demonstrates that systemic ketamine administration in rats interferes with fear conditioning on a behavioural level and in a network of brain regions associated with fear and anxiety. The combination of ketamine and fear conditioning may therefore provide a useful model of abnormal fear processing, as observed in certain psychiatric conditions.
Body dysmorphic disorder (BDD) is a somatoform disorder characterized by an excessive concern with an imagined or slight defect in appearance. BDD has been particularly studied in cosmetic surgery settings. The object of the present study is to investigate the relationship between personality disorders and dysmorphic symptoms in a group of 66 patients seeking cosmetic surgery. Assessment instruments included the following: a semistructured interview for demographic and clinical characteristics; the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV, the Hamilton Depression and Anxiety Rating Scales, and the Body Dysmorphic Disorder Yale - Brown Obsessive--Compulsive Scale (BDD - YBOCS). A multiple regression analysis was performed using the BDD - YBOCS score as a continuous dependent variable. The severity of dysmorphic symptoms (BDD - YBOCS score) was significantly related to two factors: the number of diagnostic criteria for schizotypal and paranoid personality disorders. The results suggest that the presence of a psychopathological reaction to imagined defects in appearance in subjects pursuing a surgical correction is associated with the severity of schizotypal and paranoid personality disorders. Preoperative assessment could help to define the clinical profile of patients in cosmetic surgery settings.
Our understanding of functional genetic elements in the genomes is continuously growing and new entries are entered in various databases on a regular basis. We have here merged the genetic elements in RefSeq, Ensembl, FANTOM3, HINV, and NCBI:s ESTdb using the genome assemblies in order to achieve a comprehensive picture of the current status of the identity and gene number in human, mouse, and rat. The number of human protein coding genes has not increased (25,043) while the increased sequencing of mouse transcripts has provided the considerably higher number of protein coding genes (31,578) in mouse. The results indicate large discrepancies between the datasets, as considerable numbers of unique transcripts can be found in each dataset. Despite the high number of ncRNA (38,129 in mouse) there are also almost 20,000 EST clusters in both mouse and humans with more than one EST that do not overlap any transcript suggesting that several new genetic elements are still to be found. We also demonstrated presence of new genes by identifying new human ones that have specific tissue profiles, using RT-PCR on rat tissues.
Aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs inhibit cell proliferation and induce apoptosis in various cancer cell lines, which is considered to be an important mechanism for their anti-tumor activity and prevention of carcinogenesis. However, the molecular mechanisms through which these compounds induce apoptosis are not well understood. Here we have found that aspirin treatment of the mouse Neuro 2a cells impaired the proteasome function and caused severe mitochondrial abnormalities. Treatment with aspirin lead to a dose- and time-dependent decrease in proteasome activity and an increase in the accumulation of ubiquitylated proteins in the cells, which correlated with its effect on cell death. Aspirin exposure also resulted in an increase in the half-life of pd1EGFP, a model substrate of proteasome, as well as various intracellular substrates like Bax, IkappaB-alpha, p53, and p27(kip1). Aspirin-induced proteasomal malfunction might be responsible, at least in part, for the down-regulation of NF-kappaB activity and neurite outgrowth. Finally, we have shown that aspirin treatment caused changes in the mitochondrial membrane potential, release of cytochrome c from mitochondria, and activation of caspase-9 and -3, which could be because of the proteasomal dysfunction.
How do induced brightness and darkness signals from local and remote surfaces interact to determine the final achromatic color percept of a target surface? An emerging theory of achromatic color perception posits that brightness and darkness percepts are computed by weighting and summing the induction signals generated at edges in a scene. This theory also characterizes how neighboring edges interact to modulate the gain of brightness and darkness signals induced from one another. Here we assess evidence for this edge integration theory by means of computational modeling and a psychophysical experiment. We quantitatively show how local and remote edge induction signals in disk-ring displays give rise to either contrast or assimilation effects. Spatial integration of same-polarity edge signals supports a contrast effect, whereas integration of opposite-polarity signals supports an assimilation effect, particularly when the remote induction signal is much stronger than the local induction signal. The results confirm a key prediction of edge integration theory, namely, that strong assimilation effects can lead subjects to ignore the polarity of local edge information when setting achromatic color matches. The conditions necessary for strong assimilation effects are also associated with greater difficulty in setting matches, suggesting that caution is required when interpreting matching data in terms of gain control. We describe several avenues for further study of contrast, assimilation, and gain control.
Successful strategies for transplantation of neural precursor cells for replacement of lost or dysfunctional CNS cells require long-term survival of grafted cells and integration with the host system, potentially for the life of the recipient. It is also important to demonstrate that transplants do not result in adverse outcomes. Few studies have examined the long-term properties of transplanted neural precursor cells in the CNS, particularly in non-neurogenic regions of the adult. The aim of the present study was to extensively characterize the fate of defined populations of neural precursor cells following transplantation into the developing and adult CNS (brain and spinal cord) for up to 15 months, including integration of graft-derived neurons with the host. Specifically, we employed neuronal-restricted precursors and glial-restricted precursors, which represent neural precursor cells with lineage restrictions for neuronal and glial fate, respectively. Transplanted cells were prepared from embryonic day-13.5 fetal spinal cord of transgenic donor rats that express the marker gene human placental alkaline phosphatase to achieve stable and reliable graft tracking. We found that in both developing and adult CNS grafted cells showed long-term survival, morphological maturation, extensive distribution and differentiation into all mature CNS cell types (neurons, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes). Graft-derived neurons also formed synapses, as identified by electron microscopy, suggesting that transplanted neural precursor cells integrated with adult CNS. Furthermore, grafts did not result in any apparent deleterious outcomes. We did not detect tumor formation, cells did not localize to unwanted locations and no pronounced immune response was present at the graft sites. The long-term stability of neuronal-restricted precursors and glial-restricted precursors and the lack of adverse effects suggest that transplantation of lineage-restricted neural precursor cells can serve as an effective and safe replacement therapy for CNS injury and degeneration.
The most important risk factors currently identified for the sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) are prone sleeping and cigarette smoke exposure. In this study, we investigated the neuropathological sequelae of these risk factors by exposing piglets to intermittent hypercapnic-hypoxia (IHH) and/or nicotine (nic) in the early postnatal period. Our hypothesis was that either nic or IHH exposure could increase neuronal cell death, and that combined exposure (nic+IHH) would be additive. Four exposure patterns were studied: controls (n=14), IHH (n=10), nic (n=14), and nic+IHH (n=14). All groups had equal gender ratios. Nic exposure via an implanted osmotic minipump commenced within 48 h of birth and continued until age 13-14 days when animals were killed and brains collected. A total of 48 min of hypercapnic-hypoxia was delivered on the day immediately prior to killing in a pattern comprising 6 min of HH (8% O(2), 7% CO(2), balance N(2)) alternating with 6 min of air. Immunohistochemistry was performed to identify neurons positive for active caspase-3 and DNA fragmentation (terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling, TUNEL) in seven nuclei of the caudal medulla. Staining quantification showed that: 1. IHH induced neuronal death (increased both TUNEL and casapse-3) in more brainstem nuclei than nicotine. 2. Females were more severely affected by IHH than males. 3. Where IHH and nicotine were combined, TUNEL expression was approximately 5% less than IHH alone, but changes in caspase-3 were variable. We conclude that acute exposure to IHH in the postnatal period is more neurotoxic than exposure to nicotine alone. Combined exposure to IHH and nicotine produced variable responses with some results suggesting that nicotine can be neuroprotective. These results indicate that environmental insults attributable to prone sleeping can produce neurotoxic sequelae in SIDS, with some regional specificity in the response. However, no consistent relationship is evident when combining the two insults.
It is well established that, during rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, somatic motoneurons are subjected to a barrage of inhibitory synaptic potentials that are mediated by glycine. However, the source of this inhibition, which is crucial for the maintenance and preservation of REM sleep, has not been identified. Consequently, the present study was undertaken to determine in cats the location of the glycinergic neurons, that are activated during active sleep, and are responsible for the postsynaptic inhibition of motoneurons that occurs during this state. For this purpose, a pharmacologically-induced state of active sleep (AS-carbachol) was employed. Antibodies against glycine-conjugated proteins were used to identify glycinergic neurons and immunocytochemical techniques to label the Fos protein were employed to identify activated neurons. Two distinct populations of glycinergic neurons that expressed c-fos were distinguished. One population was situated within the nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis (NRGc) and nucleus magnocellularis (Mc) in the rostro-ventral medulla; this group of neurons extended caudally to the ventral portion of the nucleus paramedianus reticularis (nPR). Forty percent of the glycinergic neurons in the NRGc and Mc and 25% in the nPR expressed c-fos during AS-carbachol. A second population was located in the caudal medulla adjacent to the nucleus ambiguus (nAmb), wherein 40% of the glycinergic cells expressed c-fos during AS-carbachol. Neither population of glycinergic cells expressed c-fos during quiet wakefulness or quiet (non-rapid eye movement) sleep. We suggest that the population of glycinergic neurons in the NRGc, Mc, and nPR participates in the inhibition of somatic brainstem motoneurons during active sleep. These neurons may also be responsible for the inhibition of sensory and other processes during this state. It is likely that the group of glycinergic neurons adjacent to the nucleus ambiguus (nAmb) is responsible for the active sleep-selective inhibition of motoneurons that innervate the muscles of the larynx and pharynx.
The aim of this study was to determine whether age-associated alterations in the GABAergic input to pyramidal neurons in the hippocampus are due to a dysfunction of GABAergic interneurons, and/or a decrease in their cholinergic control via nicotinic receptors (nAChRs). Electrophysiological recordings were obtained from pyramidal cells in the CA1 area of hippocampal slices from young (3-4 months old) and aged (25-30 months old) Sprague-Dawley rats. Synaptic GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic currents and inhibitory postsynaptic potentials induced by stimulation of the stratum oriens were significantly smaller in aged rats. The frequency (but not amplitude) of spontaneous and miniature GABA inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) was reduced in aged rats, suggesting a presynaptic alteration. Tetanic stimulation of cholinergic afferents to release endogenous acetylcholine, or an exogenous application of the nAChR agonist cytisine, increased the frequency of spontaneous IPSCs in young rats; however these effects were not evident in aged rats, indicating that the nicotinic control of GABA release is lowered during aging. None of these age-related alterations were reversed by a chronic treatment with donepezil, a cholinesterase inhibitor. Immunofluorescent labeling of GABA interneurons with somatostatin (SOM), parvalbumin (PV) or calbindin (CB), together with the vesicular acetylcholine transporter VAChT, revealed a selective loss of subpopulations of SOM and CB positive interneurons. This loss was associated with a general decrease in density of the cholinergic network in aged rats. Thus, the lower GABAergic inhibition observed in the aged rat hippocampus is due to a selective loss/dysfunction of subpopulations of GABAergic interneurons, associated with a widespread cholinergic deficit.
The inhibition of sodium intake by increased plasma osmolarity may depend on inhibitory mechanisms present in the lateral parabrachial nucleus. Activation of alpha(2)-adrenergic receptors in the lateral parabrachial nucleus is suggested to deactivate inhibitory mechanisms present in this area increasing fluid depletion-induced 0.3 M NaCl intake. Considering the possibility that lateral parabrachial nucleus inhibitory mechanisms are activated and restrain sodium intake in animals with increased plasma osmolarity, in the present study we investigated the effects on water and 0.3 M NaCl intake produced by the activation of alpha(2)-adrenergic receptors in the lateral parabrachial nucleus in rats with increased plasma osmolarity. Male Holtzman rats with stainless steel cannulas implanted bilaterally into the lateral parabrachial nucleus were used. One hour after intragastric 2 M NaCl load (2 ml), bilateral injections of moxonidine (alpha(2)-adrenergic/imidazoline receptor agonist, 0.5 nmol/0.2 microl, n=10) into the lateral parabrachial nucleus induced a strong ingestion of 0.3 M NaCl intake (19.1+/-5.5 ml/2 h vs. vehicle: 1.8+/-0.6 ml/2 h), without changing water intake (15.8+/-3.0 ml/2 h vs. vehicle: 9.3+/-2.0 ml/2 h). However, moxonidine into the lateral parabrachial nucleus in satiated rats not treated with 2 M NaCl produced no change on 0.3 M NaCl intake. The pre-treatment with RX 821002 (alpha(2)-adrenergic receptor antagonist, 20 nmol/0.2 microl) into the lateral parabrachial nucleus almost abolished the effects of moxonidine on 0.3 M NaCl intake (4.7+/-3.4 ml/2 h). The present results suggest that alpha(2)-adrenergic receptor activation in the lateral parabrachial nucleus blocks inhibitory mechanisms, thereby allowing ingestion of hypertonic NaCl under conditions of extracellular hyperosmolarity. We suggest that during cell dehydration, circuits subserving sodium appetite are activated, but at the same time strongly inhibited through the lateral parabrachial nucleus.
The medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) participates in several higher order functions including selective attention, visceromotor control, decision making and goal-directed behaviors. We discuss the role of the infralimbic cortex (IL) in visceromotor control and the prelimbic cortex (PL) in cognition and their interactions in goal-directed behaviors in the rat. The PL strongly interconnects with a relatively small group of structures that, like PL, subserve cognition, and together have been designated the 'PL circuit.' These structures primarily include the hippocampus, insular cortex, nucleus accumbens, basolateral nucleus of the amygdala, the mediodorsal and reuniens nuclei of the thalamus and the ventral tegmental area of the midbrain. Lesions of each of these structures, like those of PL, produce deficits in delayed response tasks and memory. The PL (and ventral anterior cingulate cortex) (AC) of rats is ideally positioned to integrate current and past information, including its affective qualities, and act on it through its projections to the ventral striatum/ventral pallidum. We further discuss the role of nucleus reuniens of thalamus as a major interface between the mPFC and the hippocampus, and as a prominent source of afferent limbic information to the mPFC and hippocampus. We suggest that the IL of rats is functionally homologous to the orbitomedial cortex of primates and the prelimbic (and ventral AC) cortex to the lateral/dorsolateral cortex of primates, and that the IL/PL complex of rats exerts significant control over emotional and cognitive aspects of goal-directed behavior.
The brain somehow merges visual information with the behavioral context in which it is being processed, a task that is often attributed to the cerebral cortex. We have identified a new role of the gaseous neurotransmitter, nitric oxide (NO), in the early selective enhancement of corticogeniculate communication that may participate in this process at the level of the thalamus. Visual information is dynamically gated through the thalamus by brainstem neurons that release acetylcholine and NO. Using in vitro electrophysiology, we characterized NO effects on excitatory postsynaptic potentials and currents (EPSCs) elicited from retinal and cortical pathways in the lateral geniculate nucleus of the ferret. NO selectively and reversibly increased cortically-evoked postsynaptic responses, and this effect was mimicked by cyclic guanosine 3',5'-monophosphate (cGMP). Conversely, NO inhibited retinally-evoked responses independently of cGMP. We demonstrated that these differential effects were specific to postsynaptic N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors by studying treatment effects on pharmacologically isolated EPSCs from each pathway. We propose that when brainstem activity is increased during behavioral arousal or rapid eye movement sleep, NO may increase the relative sensitivity of relay neurons to corticogeniculate feedback. The net effect of these changes in synaptic processing may be to selectively suppress peripheral information while unifying data carried by reentrant corticogeniculate loops with the behavioral context in which the visual information is processed.
Pituitary adenylyl cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP), via its specific receptor pituitary adenylyl cyclase-activating polypeptide receptor 1 (PAC1-R), is known to have roles in neuromodulation and neuroprotection associated with glutamatergic and cholinergic neurotransmission, which, respectively, are believed to form the primary basis for afferent and efferent signaling in the organ of Corti. Previously, we identified transcripts for PACAP preprotein and multiple splice variants of its receptor, PAC1-R, in microdissected cochlear subfractions. In the present work, neural localizations of PACAP and PAC1-R within the organ of Corti and spiral ganglion were examined, defining sites of PACAP action. Immunolocalization of PACAP and PAC1-R in the organ of Corti and spiral ganglion was compared with immunolocalization of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) and synaptophysin as efferent neuronal markers, and glutamate receptor 2/3 (GluR2/3) and neurofilament 200 as afferent neuronal markers, for each of the three cochlear turns. Brightfield microscopy giving morphological detail for individual immunolocalizations was followed by immunofluorescence detection of co-localizations. PACAP was found to be co-localized with ChAT in nerve fibers of the intraganglionic spiral bundle and beneath the inner and outer hair cells within the organ of Corti. Further, evidence was obtained that PACAP is expressed in type I afferent axons leaving the spiral ganglion en route to the auditory nerve, potentially serving as a neuromodulator in axonal terminals. In contrast to the efferent localization of PACAP within the organ of Corti, PAC1-R immunoreactivity was co-localized with afferent dendritic neuronal marker GluR2/3 in nerve fibers passing beneath and lateral to the inner hair cell and in fibers at supranuclear and basal sites on outer hair cells. Given the known association of PACAP with catecholaminergic neurotransmission in sympathoadrenal function, we also re-examined the issue of whether the organ of Corti receives adrenergic innervation. We now demonstrate the existence of nerve fibers within the organ of Corti which are immunoreactive for the adrenergic marker dopamine beta-hydroxylase (DBH). DBH immunoreactivity was particularly prominent in nerve fibers both at the base and near the cuticular plate of outer hair cells of the apical turn, extending to the non-sensory Hensen's cell region. Evidence was obtained for limited co-localization of DBH with PAC1-R and PACAP. In the process of this investigation, we obtained evidence that efferent and afferent nerve fibers, in addition to adrenergic nerve fibers, are present at supranuclear sites on outer hair cells and distributed within the non-sensory epithelium of the apical cochlear turn for rat, based upon immunoreactivity for the corresponding neuronal markers. Overall, PACAP is hypothesized to act within the organ of Corti as an efferent neuromodulator of afferent signaling via PAC1-R that is present on type I afferent dendrites, in position to afford protection from excitotoxicity. Additionally, PACAP/PAC1-R may modulate secretion of catecholamines from adrenergic terminals within the organ of Corti.
Reduced levels of estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha) in the medial amygdala (MeA) and bed nucleus of stria terminalis (BST) have been hypothesized to play a significant role in the expression of male behaviors associated with monogamy. Therefore, the regulation of ERalpha could be a critical factor in determining male behavior and the evolution of monogamy. Central expression of ERalpha immunoreactivity was compared in hybrid offspring from crosses between two phenotypically distinct populations of prairie voles (Microtus ochrogaster). Illinois voles (IL) are socially monogamous and display low levels of ERalpha, while Kansas voles (KN) display some characteristics associated with polygyny and have higher levels of ERalpha. In offspring from hybrid crosses, the pattern of ERalpha expression was dependent upon parentage; the two types of hybrid crosses did not produce the same ERalpha pattern in the offspring. In the BST and MeA, hybrid males expressed ERalpha patterns consistent with those of males from their mother's population, while hybrid females had ERalpha patterns typical of females belonging to their father's population. The parental-specific patterns of ERalpha expression are suggestive of genomic imprinting, therefore, the vole ERalpha (Esr1) gene was cloned and sequenced, and examined for allele-specific expression. Results from this study indicate that while maternal factors may play a major role the expression of ERalpha in their male offspring, genomic imprinting is unlikely to be involved, suggesting another mechanism is responsible.
Field potentials recorded in the olfactory bulb glomerular layer (GL) are thought to result mainly from activation of mitral and tufted cells. The contribution of juxtaglomerular cells (JG) is unknown. We tested the hypothesis that JG are the main driving force to novel spontaneous glomerular layer field potentials (sGLFPs), which were recorded in rat olfactory bulb slices maintained in an interface chamber. We found that sGLFPs have comparable magnitudes, durations and frequencies both in standard horizontal slices, where all layers with all cell types were present, and in isolated GL slices, where only JG cells were preserved. Hence, the impact of mitral and deep/medium tufted cells to sGLFPs turned out to be minor. Therefore, we propose that the main generators of sGLFPs are JG neurons. We further explored the mechanism of generation of sGLFPs using a neuronal ensemble model comprising all types of cells associated with a single glomerulus. Random orientation and homogenous distribution of dendrites in the glomerular neuropil along with surrounding shell of cell bodies of JG neurons resulted in substantial spatial restriction of the generated field potential. The model predicts that less than 20% of sGLFP can spread from one glomerulus to an adjacent one. The contribution of JG cells to the total field in the center of the glomerulus is estimated as approximately 50% ( approximately 34% periglomerular and approximately 16% external tufted cells), whereas deep/medium tufted cells provide approximately 39% and mitral cells only approximately 10%. Occasionally, some sGLFPs recorded in adjacent or remote glomeruli were cross-correlated, suggesting involvement of interglomerular communication in information coding. These results demonstrate a leading role of JG cells in activation of the main olfactory bulb (MOB) functional modules. Finally, we hypothesize that the GL is not a set of independent modules, but it represents a subsystem in the MOB network, which can perform initial processing of odors.
Whereas it is widely accepted that the parietal cortex is crucial for visual attention, the role of the temporal cortex and the temporo-parietal junction (TPJ) is less clear. There are clinical reports of patients with lesions in different posterior temporal areas which exhibit contralateral visual neglect but this syndrome seems to be less frequent than in patients with parietal lesions. In a previous study, we could show that single-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) over the right inferior parietal cortex is capable to induce both neglect-like and extinction-like impairments of performance in normal subjects. In the present study, we used this method to examine the functional role of the superior temporal gyrus (STG) and the TPJ of the right hemisphere for visuo-spatial attention. Healthy volunteers were asked to detect small dots appearing for 40 ms unilaterally on right or left side or bilaterally on a computer screen. TMS was applied over the TPJ or STG. TMS over the TPJ induced an extinction-like behavioral pattern to the contralateral hemifield. TMS over the STG had no effect. The results demonstrate a functional involvement of the TPJ in visuo-attentional processing of competing stimuli in both hemifields. This region is part of the cortical network mediating stimulus-driven attention which is relevant for processing of competing stimuli.
The Ca(2+)-binding proteins parvalbumin (PV) and calbindin D-28k (CB) are key players in the intracellular Ca(2+)-buffering in specific cells including neurons and have profound effects on spatiotemporal aspects of Ca(2+) transients. The previously observed increase in mitochondrial volume density in fast-twitch muscle of PV-/- mice is viewed as a specific compensation mechanism to maintain Ca(2+) homeostasis. Since cerebellar Purkinje cells (PC) are characterized by high expression levels of the Ca(2+) buffers PV and CB, the question was raised, whether homeostatic mechanisms are induced in PC lacking these buffers. Mitochondrial volume density, i.e. relative mitochondrial mass was increased by 40% in the soma of PV-/- PC. Upregulation of mitochondrial volume density was not homogenous throughout the soma, but was selectively restricted to a peripheral region of 1.5 microm width underneath the plasma membrane. Accompanied was a decreased surface of subplasmalemmal smooth endoplasmic reticulum (sPL-sER) in a shell of 0.5 microm thickness underneath the plasma membrane. These alterations were specific for the absence of the &quot;slow-onset&quot; buffer PV, since in CB-/- mice neither changes in peripheral mitochondria nor in sPL-sER were observed. This implicates that the morphological alterations are aimed to specifically substitute the function of the slow buffer PV. We propose a novel concept that homeostatic mechanisms of components involved in Ca(2+) homeostasis do not always occur at the level of similar or closely related molecules. Rather the cell attempts to restore spatiotemporal aspects of Ca(2+) signals prevailing in the undisturbed (wildtype) situation by subtly fine tuning existing components involved in the regulation of Ca(2+) fluxes.
Adenosine is a potent modulator of excitatory neurotransmission, especially in seizure-prone regions such as the hippocampal formation. In adult brain ambient levels of adenosine are controlled by adenosine kinase (ADK), the major adenosine-metabolizing enzyme, expressed most strongly in astrocytes. Since ontogeny of the adenosine system is largely unknown, we investigated ADK expression and cellular localization during postnatal development of the mouse brain, using immunofluorescence staining with cell-type specific markers. At early postnatal stages ADK immunoreactivity was prominent in neurons, notably in cerebral cortex and hippocampus. Thereafter, as seen best in hippocampus, ADK gradually disappeared from neurons and appeared in newly developed nestin- and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-positive astrocytes. Furthermore, the region-specific downregulation of neuronal ADK coincided with the onset of myelination, as visualized by myelin basic protein staining. After postnatal day 14 (P14), the transition from neuronal to astrocytic ADK expression was complete, except in a subset of neurons that retained ADK until adulthood in specific regions, such as striatum. Moreover, neuronal progenitors in the adult dentate gyrus lacked ADK. Finally, recordings of excitatory field potentials in acute slice preparations revealed a reduced adenosinergic inhibition in P14 hippocampus compared with adult. These findings suggest distinct roles for adenosine in the developing and adult brain. First, ADK expression in young neurons may provide a salvage pathway to utilize adenosine in nucleic acid synthesis, thus supporting differentiation and plasticity and influencing myelination; and second, adult ADK expression in astrocytes may offer a mechanism to regulate adenosine levels as a function of metabolic needs and synaptic activity, thus contributing to the differential resistance of young and adult animals to seizures.
Malformations of cortical development (MCD) result from abnormal neuronal positioning during corticogenesis. MCD are believed to be the morphological and perhaps physiological bases of several neurological diseases, spanning from mental retardation to autism and epilepsy. In view of the fact that during development, an appropriate blood supply is necessary to drive organogenesis in other organs, we hypothesized that vasculogenesis plays an important role in brain development and that E15 exposure in rats to the angiogenesis inhibitor thalidomide would cause postnatal MCD. Our results demonstrate that thalidomide inhibits angiogenesis in vitro at concentrations that result in significant morphological alterations in cortical and hippocampal regions of rats prenatally exposed to this vasculotoxin. Abnormal neuronal development was associated with vascular malformations and a leaky blood-brain barrier. Protein extravasation and uptake of fluorescent albumin by neurons, but not glia, was commonly associated with abnormal cortical development. Neuronal hyperexcitability was also a hallmark of these abnormal cortical regions. Our results suggest that prenatal vasculogenesis is required to support normal neuronal migration and maturation. Altering this process leads to failure of normal cerebrovascular development and may have a profound implication for CNS maturation.
Human and animal studies have implicated brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the etiology of psychiatric disorders. It is expressed in limbic regions of the brain associated with the regulation of emotionality during fetal development and in the adult animal. To further our understanding of the role of BDNF in the modulation of mood and to distinguish its prenatal and postnatal functions, we investigated and contrasted behavioral changes elicited by its depletion from fetal or postnatal brains of mice. Two corresponding lines of BDNF conditional knockout mice were subjected to a battery of behavioral tests assessing locomotor, depressive, aggressive and anxiety-related behaviors. We found that both lines of mutants were dramatically hyperactive during the light and dark cycles and hyperaggressive. They also exhibited a depression-like phenotype in the tail suspension test but not in the forced swim test. Interestingly, depletion of BDNF from the fetal brain had more pronounced effects on aggressive and depressive-like behaviors and led to deficits in 5-HT(2A) receptor content in the medial frontal cortex, highlighting the importance of this neurotrophin during development. We conclude that expression of BDNF both pre- and postnatally is essential for normal modulation of behavior by neural circuits in the adult animal.
In the current study we analyzed the input-output relations in the entorhinal-dentate-hippocampal system, a major network involved in long-term memory. In anesthetized guinea pigs, the system was driven by activation of perforant path neurons in the entorhinal cortex (ENT), via presubicular fibers directly stimulated in the dorsal psalterium. Perforant path neuron discharge activated in parallel the dentate gyrus (DG) and hippocampal field CA2. Whereas the output from the DG activated hippocampal field CA3, the output from the sole field CA2 was sufficient for activation of field CA1. Signals from field CA3 operated in concert with CA2, likely contributing to discharge field CA1. These findings indicate the existence of two in parallel disynaptic systems: an ENT-CA2-CA1 and an ENT-DG-CA3 system. The convergence of the latter with the former gives origin the classical trisynaptic circuit, the ENT-DG-CA3-CA1 system. The input-output relations between the population excitatory postsynaptic potentials (pEPSP) evoked in the DG, CA3, CA2 and CA1 and the population spike (PS) evoked in the structure upstream (the input) were described by smooth sigmoid curves. In contrast, the input-output relations of the PS versus the pEPSP within each structure were described by steep sigmoid curves. The net input-output functions of the DG (ENT-DG system), field CA2 (ENT-CA2 system), field CA3 (ENT-DG-CA3 system) and field CA1 (ENT-CA2-CA1&amp;ENT-DG-CA3-CA1 system) were described by sigmoid curves. While the DG and field CA2 exhibited steep sigmoids, fields CA3 and CA1 had less steep sigmoid functions. The present study demonstrates that all structures downstream to the ENT operate according to sigmoid input-output functions, characterized by specific parameters. These different behaviors may contribute to different memory processes. We additionally demonstrate that field CA1 can be activated by field CA2, independently from field CA3. This functional dissociation between CA3 and CA1 may subserve specific roles of each field in memory encoding/retrieval.
Spatially and temporally restricted populations of neurogenic astrocytes can generate multipotent neurospheres in vitro. To examine the ability of neurogenic astrocytes to respond to in vivo differentiation cues within a germinal matrix, we provided cultured neonatal cerebellar astrocytes access to the subependymal zone (SEZ) by grafting them directly into the lateral ventricle of adult mice. Here we report three events that follow such transplants. 1) Donor cells attach to periventricular structures, and form &quot;neoplastic-like&quot; spheres that penetrate the ventricular wall. These attached spheres can persist for months, as they give rise to &quot;clones&quot; of cells that infiltrate forebrain parenchyma. 2) Many donor cells enter the rostral migratory stream and migrate into the olfactory bulb where a small percentage differentiates as olfactory interneurons. 3) Finally, within the SEZ, some donor cells formed cell clusters that appear to interact with the SEZ neuronal precursor chains, and some donor cells differentiate into distinctive neurons with extensive, beady projections precisely confined between the ependymal layer and the striatum. Further analysis of normal SEZ anatomy reveals indigenous neurons with identical morphologies--some of which are contacted by 5-HT+ fibers--that we propose represent a heretofore uncharacterized, intrinsic SEZ neuron of unknown function. These results suggest that cultured astrocytes derived from non-SEZ brain regions can respond in different ways to in vivo cues provided by the adult lateral ventricle and SEZ by differentiating into neurons that eventually inhabit both the olfactory bulb and SEZ proper.
Whereas stress is known to be one of the risk factors of stroke, few experimental studies have examined the possible mechanisms by which stress may affect stroke outcome. Most of the knowledge on the effects of stress on cerebrovascular disease in humans is restricted to catecholamines and glucocorticoids effects on blood pressure and/or development of atherosclerosis. By using an experimental paradigm consisting of the exposure of Fischer rats to repeated immobilization sessions (1 h daily during seven consecutive days) prior to permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO), we have found that stress worsens behavioral outcome and increases infarct size after MCAO. These changes occur concomitantly to an increase in inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) expression and to the accumulation of lipid peroxidation markers in brain tissue. The possible regulatory role of TNFalpha was studied by looking at the mechanisms of release of this cytokine as well as to the expression of its receptors (TNFR1 and 2). The results of the present study suggest an increase in TNFalpha expression and release after stress, as well as an increase in the expression of TNFR1. Pharmacological blockade of TNFalpha with anti-TNFalpha led to a decrease in the infarct size as well as in the oxidative/nitrosative biochemical parameters seen after ischemia. In summary, our results indicate that TNFalpha accounts, at least partly, for the worsening of MCAO consequences in brain of rats exposed to stress. Furthermore, the data presented here provide evidence that stress can increase brain ischemic damage and support a possible protective effect of treatment of stressful situations before and during the development of the brain ischemia.
In the present study, we have attempted to elucidate the effects of the intra-arterial injection of microglia on the global ischemia-induced functional and morphological deficits of hippocampal CA1 neurons. When PKH26-labeled immortalized microglial cells, GMIR1, were injected into the subclavian artery, these exogenous microglia were found to accumulate in the hippocampus at 24 h after ischemia. In hippocampal slices prepared from medium-injected rats subjected to ischemia 48 h earlier, synaptic dysfunctions including a significant reduction of synaptic responses and a marked reduction of long-term potentiation (LTP) of the CA3-CA1 Schaffer collateral synapses were observed. At this stage, however, neither significant neuronal degeneration nor gliosis was observed in the hippocampus. At 96 h after ischemia, there was a total loss of the synaptic activity and a marked neuronal death in the CA1 subfield. In contrast, the basal synaptic transmission and LTP of the CA3-CA1 synapses were well preserved after ischemia in the slices prepared from the microglia-injected animals. We also found the microglial-conditioned medium (MCM) to significantly increase the frequency of the spontaneous postsynaptic currents of CA1 neurons without affecting the amplitude, thus indicating that MCM increased the provability of the neurotransmitter release. The protective effect of the intra-arterial injected microglia against the ischemia-induced neuronal degeneration in the hippocampus was substantiated by immunohistochemical and immunoblot analyses. Furthermore, the arterial-injected microglia prevented the ischemia-induced decline of the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) levels in CA1 neurons. These observations strongly suggest that the arterial-injection of microglia protected CA1 neurons against the ischemia-induced neuronal degeneration. The restoration of the ischemia-induced synaptic deficits and the resultant reduction of the BDNF levels in CA1 neurons, possibly by the release of diffusible factor(s), might thus contribute to the protective effect of the arterial-injection of microglia against ischemia-induced neuronal degeneration.
In decerebrate cats, sinusoidal rotation of the forepaw around the wrist modifies the activity of the ipsilateral forelimb extensor triceps brachii (TB) and leads to plastic changes of adaptive nature in the gain of vestibulospinal (VS) reflexes (VSRs). Both effects are depressed by functional inactivation of the cerebellar anterior vermis, which also decreases the gain of VSRs. In order to better understand the mechanisms of these phenomena, the simple spike activity of Purkinje (P-) cells was recorded from the vermal cortex of the cerebellar anterior lobe during individual and/or combined stimulation of somatosensory wrist, neck and vestibular receptors. About one third of the recorded units were affected by sinusoidal rotation of the ipsilateral forepaw around the wrist axis (0.16 Hz, +/-10 degrees ). Most of these neurons ( approximately 60%) increased their activity during ventral flexion of the wrist and decreased it during the oppositely directed movement, with an average phase lag of -141 degrees with respect to the position of maximal dorsiflexion. The remaining cells ( approximately 40%) were excited during dorsiflexion of the wrist, with an average phase lead of 59 degrees with respect to the extreme dorsal flexion. Both populations showed comparable response gains, with an average value of 0.42+/-0.52, S.D., imp/s/deg. About half of the recorded units were also tested during sinusoidal roll tilt of the animal around the longitudinal axis (0.16 Hz, +/-10 degrees ), leading to stimulation of labyrinthine receptors. When both stimuli were applied simultaneously, the responses to combined stimulation usually corresponded to the sum of individual responses. While the phase distribution of somatosensory responses was clearly bimodal, vestibular responses showed phase angle values uniformly scattered between +/-180 degrees and 0 degrees , so that, during combined stimulation, each neuron could be maximally activated by coupling the two stimuli with a particular phase relation. Finally, a proportion of the recorded neurons was also tested during sinusoidal rotation of the body around its longitudinal axis, with the head fixed in space, leading to stimulation of neck receptors. The proportion of neurons affected by individual stimulation of vestibular or neck receptors (81% and 72%, respectively) was larger than that of wrist-driven neurons. Convergence of signals from vestibular, somatosensory wrist and neck receptors was found in 18% of the neurons analyzed. In conclusion, the results of this study show that somatosensory signals from the forelimb: i) modulate the activity of a sizeable proportion of neurons located within the cerebellar anterior vermis and ii) interact widely with labyrinthine and neck signals at this level. Moreover, iii) this corticocerebellar region is largely dominated by vestibular and neck signals that may be utilized to build up a neuronal representation of the position of body in space. These findings suggest that: 1) the modulation of TB activity induced by rotation of the ipsilateral wrist may at least partially depend upon the simultaneous changes in P-cell activity and 2) the interaction of vestibular and somatosensory wrist signals at P-cell level may represent the substrate of the plastic changes that affect the VSR when animal tilt and wrist rotation are driven together. A preliminary report of these data has been presented [ Responses of cerebellar Purkinje cells to forepaw rotation in decerebrate cat. Pflgers Arch 440:R31].
At the neuromuscular junction, ATP is co-released with the neurotransmitter acetylcholine (ACh) and once in the synaptic space, it is degraded to the presynaptically active metabolite adenosine. Intracellular recordings were performed on diaphragm fibers of CF1 mice to determine the action of extracellular ATP (100 muM) and the slowly hydrolysable ATP analog 5'-adenylylimidodiphosphate lithium (betagamma-imido ATP) (30 muM) on miniature end-plate potential (MEPP) frequency. We found that application of ATP and betagamma-imido ATP decreased spontaneous secretion by 45.3% and 55.9% respectively. 8-Cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine (DPCPX), a selective A(1) adenosine receptor antagonist and alpha,beta-methylene ADP sodium salt (alphabeta-MeADP), which is an inhibitor of ecto-5'-nucleotidase, did not prevent the inhibitory effect of ATP, demonstrating that the nucleotide is able to modulate spontaneous ACh release through a mechanism independent of the action of adenosine. Blockade of Ca(2+) channels by both, Cd(2+) or the combined application of nitrendipine and omega-conotoxin GVIA (omega-CgTx) (L-type and N-type Ca(2+) channel antagonists, respectively) prevented the effect of betagamma-imido ATP, indicating that the nucleotide modulates Ca(2+) influx through the voltage-dependent Ca(2+) channels related to spontaneous secretion. betagamma-Imido ATP-induced modulation was antagonized by the non-specific P2 receptor antagonist suramin and the P2Y receptor antagonist 1-amino-4-[[4-[[4-chloro-6-[[3(or4)-sulfophenyl] amino]-1,3,5-triazin-2-yl]amino]-3-sulfophenyl] amino]-9,10-dihydro-9,10-dioxo-2-anthracenesulfonic acid (reactive blue-2), but not by pyridoxal phosphate-6-azo(benzene-2,4-disulfonic acid) tetrasodium salt (PPADS), which has a preferential antagonist effect on P2X receptors. Pertussis toxin and N-ethylmaleimide (NEM), which are blockers of G(i/o) proteins, prevented the action of the nucleotide, suggesting that the effect is mediated by P2Y receptors coupled to G(i/o) proteins. The protein kinase C (PKC) antagonist chelerythrine and the calmodulin antagonist N-(6-aminohexil)-5-chloro-1-naphthalenesulfonamide hydrochloride (W-7) occluded the effect of betagamma-imido ATP, while the protein kinase A (PKA) antagonist KT-5720 and the inhibitor of the calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CAMKII) KN-62 failed to do so. betagamma-Imido ATP did not affect 10, 15 and 20 mM K(+)-evoked release and application of reactive blue-2 before incubation in high K(+) induced a higher asynchronous secretion. Thus, our results show that at mammalian neuromuscular junctions, ATP induces presynaptic inhibition of spontaneous ACh release due to the modulation of Ca(2+) channels related to tonic secretion through the activation of P2Y receptors coupled to G(i/o) proteins. We also demonstrated that at increasing degrees of membrane depolarization evoked by K(+), endogenously released ATP induces presynaptic inhibition as a means of preventing excessive neurotransmitter secretion.
The brain regulates energy balance and spontaneous physical activity, including both small- and large-motor activities. Neural mediators of spontaneous physical activity are currently undefined, although the amount of time spent in sedentary positions versus standing and ambulating may be important in the energetics of human obesity. Orexin A, a neuropeptide produced in caudal hypothalamic areas and projecting throughout the neuraxis, enhances arousal and spontaneous physical activity. To test the hypothesis that orexin A affects the amount of time spent moving, we injected orexin A (0-1000 pmol) into three orexin projection sites in male Sprague-Dawley rats: hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus, rostral lateral hypothalamic area and substantia nigra pars compacta, and measured spontaneous physical activity. Orexin A affects local GABA release and we co-injected orexin A with a GABA agonist, muscimol, in each brain site. Dopamine signaling is important to substantia nigra function and so we also co-injected a dopamine 1 receptor antagonist (SCH 23390) in the substantia nigra pars compacta. In all brain sites orexin A significantly increased time spent vertical and ambulating. Muscimol significantly and dose-dependently inhibited orexin A effects on time spent moving only when administered to the rostral lateral hypothalamic area. In the substantia nigra pars compacta, SCH 23390 completely blocked orexin A-induced ambulation. These data indicate that orexin A influences time spent moving, in three brain sites utilizing separate signaling mechanisms. That orexin A modulation of spontaneous physical activity occurs in brain areas with multiple roles indicates generalization across brain site, and may reflect a fundamental mechanism for enhancing activity levels. This potential for conferring physical activity stimulation may be useful for inducing shifts in time spent moving, which has important implications for obesity.
Axon growth is a highly regulated process that requires stimulating signals from extracellular factors. The extracellular signals are then transduced to regulate coordinately gene expression and local axon assembly. Growth factors, especially neurotrophins that act via receptor tyrosine kinases, have been heavily studied as extracellular factors that stimulate axon growth. Downstream of receptor tyrosine kinases, recent studies have suggested that phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase (PI3K) regulates local assembly of axonal cytoskeleton, especially microtubules, via glycogen synthase kinase 3beta (GSK-3beta) and multiple microtubule binding proteins. The role of extracellular signal regulated kinase (ERK) signalling in regulation of local axon assembly is less clear, but may involve the regulation of local protein translation. Gene expression during axon growth is regulated by transcription factors, among which cyclic AMP response element binding protein and nuclear factors of activated T-cells (NFATs) are known to be required for neurotrophin (NT)-induced axon extension. In addition to growth factors, extracellular matrix molecules and neuronal activity contribute importantly to control axon growth. Increasingly, evidence suggests that these influences act to enhance growth via coordinating with growth factor signalling. Finally, evidence is emerging that developmental versus regenerative axon growth may be mediated by distinct signalling pathways, both at the level of gene transcription and at the level of local axon assembly.
Neurotrophins are a family of closely related proteins that were identified initially as survival factors for sensory and sympathetic neurons, and have since been shown to control many aspects of survival, development and function of neurons in both the peripheral and the central nervous systems. Each of the four mammalian neurotrophins has been shown to activate one or more of the three members of the tropomyosin-related kinase (Trk) family of receptor tyrosine kinases (TrkA, TrkB and TrkC). In addition, each neurotrophin activates p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75NTR), a member of the tumour necrosis factor receptor superfamily. Through Trk receptors, neurotrophins activate Ras, phosphatidyl inositol-3 (PI3)-kinase, phospholipase C-gamma1 and signalling pathways controlled through these proteins, such as the MAP kinases. Activation of p75NTR results in activation of the nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) and Jun kinase as well as other signalling pathways. Limiting quantities of neurotrophins during development control the number of surviving neurons to ensure a match between neurons and the requirement for a suitable density of target innervation. The neurotrophins also regulate cell fate decisions, axon growth, dendrite growth and pruning and the expression of proteins, such as ion channels, transmitter biosynthetic enzymes and neuropeptide transmitters that are essential for normal neuronal function. Continued presence of the neurotrophins is required in the adult nervous system, where they control synaptic function and plasticity, and sustain neuronal survival, morphology and differentiation. They also have additional, subtler roles outside the nervous system. In recent years, three rare human genetic disorders, which result in deleterious effects on sensory perception, cognition and a variety of behaviours, have been shown to be attributable to mutations in brain-derived neurotrophic factor and two of the Trk receptors.
Regressive events play a key role in modifying neural connectivity in early development. An important regressive event is the pruning of neuronal processes. Pruning is a strategy often used to selectively remove exuberant neuronal branches and connections in the immature nervous system to ensure the proper formation of functional circuitry. In the following review, we discuss our present understanding of the cellular and molecular mechanisms that regulate the pruning of axons during neuronal development as well as in neurological diseases. The evidence suggests that there are several similarities between the mechanisms that are involved in developmental axon pruning and axon elimination in disease. In summary, these findings provide researchers with a unique perspective on how developmental plasticity is achieved and how to develop strategies to treat complex neurological diseases.
During the development of the nervous system, outgrowing axons often have to travel long distances to reach their target neurons. In this process, outgrowing neurites tipped with motile growth cones rely on guidance cues present in their local environment. These cues are detected by specific receptors expressed on growth cones and neurites and influence the trajectory of the growing fibres. Neurite growth, guidance, target innervation and synapse formation and maturation are the processes that occur predominantly but not exclusively during embryonic or early post-natal development in vertebrates. As a result, a functional neural network is established, which is usually remarkably stable. However, the stability of the neural network in higher vertebrates comes at an expensive price, i.e. the loss of any significant ability to regenerate injured or damaged neuronal connections in their central nervous system (CNS). Most importantly, neurite growth inhibitors prevent any regenerative growth of injured nerve fibres. Some of these inhibitors are associated with CNS myelin, others are found at the lesion site and in the scar tissue. Traumatic injuries in brain and spinal cord of mammals induce upregulation of embryonic inhibitory or repulsive guidance cues and their receptors on the neurites. An example for embryonic repulsive directional cues re-expressed at lesion sites in both the rat and human CNS is provided with repulsive guidance molecules, a new family of directional guidance cues.
Semaphorins are developmental axon guidance cues that continue to be expressed during adulthood and are regulated by neural injury. During the formation of the nervous system, repulsive semaphorins guide axons to their targets by restricting and channelling their growth. They affect the growth cone cytoskeleton through interactions with receptor complexes that are linked to a complicated intracellular signal transduction network. Following injury, regenerating axons stop growing when they reach the border of the glial-fibrotic scar, in part because they encounter a potent molecular barrier that inhibits growth cone extension. A number of secreted semaphorins are expressed in the glial-fibrotic scar and at least one transmembrane semaphorin is upregulated in oligodendrocytes surrounding the lesion site. Semaphorin receptors, and many of the signal transduction components required for semaphorin signalling, are present in injured central nervous system neurons. Here, we review evidence that supports a critical role for semaphorin signalling in axon regeneration, and highlight a number of challenges that lie ahead with respect to advancing our understanding of semaphorin function in the normal and injured adult nervous system.
Recent work in neuroscience has shown that the adult central nervous system (CNS) contains neural progenitors, precursors and stem cells that are capable of generating new neurons, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. While challenging the previous dogma that no new neurons are born in the adult mammalian CNS, these findings bring with them the future possibilities for development of novel neural repair strategies. The purpose of this review is to present the current knowledge about constitutively occurring adult mammalian neurogenesis, highlight the critical differences between 'neurogenic' and 'non-neurogenic' regions in the adult brain, and describe the cardinal features of two well-described neurogenic regions-the subventricular zone/olfactory bulb system and the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. We also provide an overview of presently used models for studying neural precursors in vitro, mention some precursor transplantation models and emphasize that, in this rapidly growing field of neuroscience, one must be cautious with respect to a variety of methodological considerations for studying neural precursor cells both in vitro and in vivo. The possibility of repairing neural circuitry by manipulating neurogenesis is an intriguing one, and, therefore, we also review recent efforts to understand the conditions under which neurogenesis can be induced in non-neurogenic regions of the adult CNS. This work aims towards molecular and cellular manipulation of endogenous neural precursors in situ, without transplantation. We conclude this review with a discussion of what might be the function of newly generated neurons in the adult brain, and provide a summary of present thinking about the consequences of disturbed adult neurogenesis and the reaction of neurogenic regions to disease.

Congenital myasthenic syndromes (CMSs) are a group of inherited disorders of neuromuscular transmission characterized by fatigable muscle weakness. One major subgroup of patients shows a characteristic &quot;limb girdle&quot; pattern of muscle weakness, in which the muscles have small, simplified neuromuscular junctions but normal acetylcholine receptor and acetylcholinesterase function. We showed that recessive inheritance of mutations in Dok-7, which result in a defective structure of the neuromuscular junction, is a cause of CMS with proximal muscle weakness.

It has been proposed that a frontally distributed ERP negativity reflects rehearsal within the phonological loop component of working memory. This study investigated the relationship between phonological rehearsal and frontal negativity, by examining the effects of word length and articulatory suppression (continuously uttering an irrelevant word) on memory for auditorily presented words while ERPs were recorded. P2 amplitude, thought to reflect word identification, was increased for long compared to short words. However, this difference did not remain under conditions of suppression. A centrally maximum early negativity was larger in the short than long word silent conditions and this word length effect was reduced under suppression. The early negativity was interpreted as reflecting the transfer of the information from input to output buffers in the silent conditions that was prevented by the suppression. There was only a word length effect for the late frontally distributed negativity in the suppression conditions, suggesting that this component was not associated with phonological loop rehearsal but rather other working memory processes that operate under high load conditions.
Bcl-2 has been hypothesized to regulate many cellular functions in addition to its well-characterized role in the prevention of programmed cell death. To understand the role of Bcl-2 in regulating cell morphology and to explore the mechanism of this effect, we examined the effects of Bcl-2 overexpression on the morphology of PC12 cells in culture. We demonstrate that the overexpression of Bcl-2 in PC12 cells results in altered cell morphology and reduced actin expression. Analysis of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) 1/2 phosphorylation reveals that the morphological changes seen after bcl-2 transfection are associated with reduced ERK activation. Treatment of control (mock-transfected) PC12 cells with the mitogen-activated ERK-activating kinase (MEK) inhibitor PD98059 converts their flat, process-bearing morphology into the rounded, process-free morphology of bcl-2-transfected cells, further confirming the association of ERK activation with altered cell shape. In conclusion, the present study describes a novel function of Bcl-2 in regulating cell shape through reduced ERK activation.
We previously reported that primary neuronal cells treated with apolipoprotein E (apoE) or an apoE-derived peptide (EP) increased ERK activation and decreased JNK activation via apoE receptors. Here, we examined if the effects observed in vitro were observed in vivo. Similar to our observations in primary neurons, in vivo we found that injections of 2muM EP into the rat hippocampus increased the levels of ERK activation and decreased JNK activation. However, the time course of these effects was slower in vivo. Immunohistochemical analysis of the tissue showed prominently increased ERK phosphorylation and decreased JNK phosphorylation in neuronal cells throughout the hippocampus, particularly in the CA3 regions. To determine if apoE was endocytosed by neurons, we conjugated fluorescent microspheres with the EP and injected them into the rat hippocampus. After 7 days, the microspheres were present in neurons. We also examined the in vivo effects of apoE on ApoEr2 and APP processing. EP and full-length apoE3 and apoE4 increased C-terminal fragments of ApoEr2 and APP after a single injection, multiple injections, and chronic infusion paradigms. ApoE3 produced higher levels of ApoEr2 and APP C-terminal fragments than apoE4. These results demonstrate that apoE alters ApoEr2 and APP processing in vivo. The increase in ERK activation is consistent with a role for apoE in a neuronal response to stress, and the decrease in JNK activation suggests that apoE may have anti-apoptotic effects, over several days.
An event-related brain potentials (ERPs) experiment was carried out to investigate the time course of lexical stress encoding in language production. Native speakers of Dutch viewed a series of pictures corresponding to bisyllabic names which were either stressed on the first or on the second syllable and made go/no-go decisions on the lexical stress location of those picture names. Behavioral results replicated a pattern that was observed earlier, i.e. faster button-press latencies to initial as compared to final stress targets. The electrophysiological results indicated that participants could make a lexical stress decision significantly earlier when picture names had initial than when they had final stress. Moreover, the present data suggest the time course of lexical stress encoding during single word form formation in language production. When word length is corrected for, the temporal interval for lexical stress encoding specified by the current ERP results falls into the time window previously identified for phonological encoding in language production.

Major precipitating factors for relapse to drug use are stress and exposure to drug-related environmental stimuli. Group II (mGlu(2/3)) metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) are densely expressed within circuitries mediating the motivating effects of stress and drug cues and, therefore, may participate in regulating drug-seeking linked to both of these risk factors. Thus, we tested the hypothesis that pharmacological activation of group II mGluRs modifies both stress- and cue-induced ethanol-seeking, using reinstatement models of relapse. In parallel, brain c-fos expression was examined to identify neural substrates for the behavioral effects of group II mGluR activation. The selective mGlu(2/3) agonist LY379268 (1R,4R,5S,6R-2-oxa-4-aminobicyclo[3.1.0]hexane-4,6-dicarboxylate) (0.3, 1.0, and 3.0 mg/kg, s.c.) dose dependently blocked the recovery of extinguished ethanol-seeking induced by either footshock stress or ethanol-associated discriminative stimuli. These effects were accompanied by modulation of c-fos expression in the hippocampus, central nucleus of the amygdala, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, and medial parvocellular paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. The results implicate group II mGluRs as a shared neuropharmacological substrate for ethanol-seeking elicited by both drug cues and stress and identify group II mGluRs as promising treatment targets for relapse prevention.
The recent cloning of the human choline transporter (hCHT) has allowed its expression in Xenopus laevis oocytes and the simultaneous measurement of choline transport and choline-induced current under voltage clamp. hCHT currents and choline transport are evident in cRNA-injected oocytes and significantly enhanced by the hCHT trafficking mutant L530A/V531A. The charge/choline ratio of hCHT varies from 10e/choline at -80 mV to 3e/choline at -20 mV, in contrast with the reported fixed stoichiometry of the Na+-coupled glucose transporter in the same gene family. Ion substitution shows that the choline uptake and choline-induced current are Na+ and Cl- dependent; however, the reversal potential of the induced current suggests a Na+-selective mechanism, consigning Cl- to a regulatory role rather than a coupled, cotransported-ion role. The hCHT-specific inhibitor hemicholinium-3 (HC-3) blocks choline uptake and choline-induced current; in addition, HC-3 alone reveals a constitutive, depolarizing leak current through hCHT. We show that external protons reduce hCHT current, transport, and binding with a similar pKa of 7.4, suggesting proton titration of residue(s) that support choline binding and transport. Given the localization of the choline transporter to synaptic vesicles, we propose that proton inactivation of hCHT prevents acetylcholine and proton leakage from the acidic interior of cholinergic synaptic vesicles. This mechanism would allow cholinergic, activity-triggered delivery of silent choline transporters to the plasma membrane, in which normal pH would reactivate the transporters for choline uptake and subsequent acetylcholine synthesis.

Double cortex is a neuronal migration disorder, associated with impaired cognitive function and seizures, and characterized by a subcortical band of neurons. Using functional MRI, we assessed the involvement of the subcortical band in language function and with interictal discharges. In both girls assessed, language-associated activation was in typical cortical areas, as well as in parts of the subcortical band. Interictal discharges were associated with deactivation in the subcortical band. This suggests involvement of the subcortical neurons in physiologic and pathologic functions.
We sought to determine whether Swedish patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) with and without oligoclonal bands (OCBs) in the CSF constitute distinct subpopulations, clinically and immunogenetically. Our findings indicate that OCB-negative MS shares the same clinical features as OCB-positive MS regarding female predominance, age at onset, proportion of primary progressive cases, rate of MRI positivity, and disease severity. Our HLA-DRB1 genotyping results suggest, however, that OCB-positive and OCB-negative MS are immunogenetically distinct.
We describe intermittent or sustained severe involuntary tongue protrusion in patients with a dystonic syndrome. Speech, swallowing, and breathing difficulties can be severe enough to be life threatening. Causes include neuroacanthocytosis, pantothenate kinase-associated neurodegeneration, Lesch-Nyhan syndrome, and postanoxic and tardive dystonia. The pathophysiology of intermittent severe tongue protrusion remains unknown. Tongue protrusion dystonia is often unresponsive to oral drugs but may benefit from botulinum toxin injections into the genioglossus muscle. Bilateral deep brain pallidal stimulation was beneficial in two cases.


The vgf gene has been identified as an energy homeostasis regulator. Vgf encodes a 617-aa precursor protein that is processed to yield an incompletely characterized panel of neuropeptides. Until now, it was an unproved assumption that VGF-derived peptides could regulate metabolism. Here, a VGF peptide designated TLQP-21 was identified in rat brain extracts by means of immunoprecipitation, microcapillary liquid chromatography-tandem MS, and database searching algorithms. Chronic intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of TLQP-21 (15 mug/day for 14 days) increased resting energy expenditure (EE) and rectal temperature in mice. These effects were paralleled by increased epinephrine and up-regulation of brown adipose tissue beta2-AR (beta2 adrenergic receptor) and white adipose tissue (WAT) PPAR-delta (peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor delta), beta3-AR, and UCP1 (uncoupling protein 1) mRNAs and were independent of locomotor activity and thyroid hormones. Hypothalamic gene expression of orexigenic and anorexigenic neuropeptides was unchanged. Furthermore, in mice that were fed a high-fat diet for 14 days, TLQP-21 prevented the increase in body and WAT weight as well as hormonal changes that are associated with a high-fat regimen. Biochemical and molecular analyses suggest that TLQP-21 exerts its effects by stimulating autonomic activation of adrenal medulla and adipose tissues. In conclusion, we present here the identification in the CNS of a previously uncharacterized VGF-derived peptide and prove that its chronic i.c.v. infusion effected an increase in EE and limited the early phase of diet-induced obesity.

Early experiences affect brain function and behavior at adulthood. Being reared in a communal nest (CN), consisting in a single nest where three mothers keep their pups together and share care-giving behavior from birth to weaning (postnatal day 25), provides a highly stimulating social environment to the developing pup. CN characterizes the natural ecological niche of many rodent species including the mouse. Here we show that, at adulthood, compared to mice reared in standard laboratory conditions (SN), CN reared mice displayed increased anxiety-like behavior, performing more thigmotaxis in the open field and spending less time in the open arms of the plus-maze. Furthermore, we showed that social context (being alone or with a familiar conspecific in the test apparatus) affects the emotional response in both the plus-maze and open field test and that the relevance of social context changes according to the early social experiences. In particular, CN mice display higher levels of anxiety-like behavior, compared to SN mice, only when alone but not in the presence of a familiar conspecific. Overall, in line with previous findings, the present study suggests that CN mice have a more elaborate social and emotional behavior compared to SN mice and thus may be more appropriate to investigate socio-emotional impairments, in particular in the case of mouse models of neurodevelopmental disorders, such as autism, or anxiety and mood disorders.
