In rats, androgens in adulthood regulate the morphology of motoneurons in the spinal nucleus of the bulbocavernosus (SNB), including the size of their somata and the length of their dendrites. There are conflicting reports about whether androgens exert similar influences on SNB motoneurons in mice. We castrated or sham-operated C57BL6J mice at 90 days of age and, thirty days later, injected cholera toxin conjugated horseradish peroxidase into the bulbocavernosus muscle (to label SNB motoneurons) on one side, and into intrinsic foot muscles contralaterally (to label motoneurons of the retrodorsolateral nucleus (RDLN)). Castrated mice had significantly smaller SNB somas compared to sham-operated mice while there were no differences in soma size of RDLN motoneurons. Dendritic length in C57BL6J mice, estimated in 3-dimensions, also decreased significantly after adult castration. In rats, androgens act directly through androgen receptors (AR) in SNB motoneurons to control soma size and nearly all SNB motoneurons contain AR. Since SNB somata in C57BL6J mice shrank after adult castration, we used immunocytochemistry to characterize AR expression in SNB cells as well as motoneurons in the RDLN and dorsolateral nucleus (DLN). A pattern of labeling matched that seen previously in rats: the highest percentage of AR-immunoreactive motoneurons are in the SNB (98%), the lowest in the RDLN (25%) and an intermediate number in the DLN (78%). This pattern of AR labeling is consistent with the possibility that androgens also act directly on SNB motoneurons in mice to regulate soma size in mice.
The ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH) is one of several sexually dimorphic nuclei that regulate mating behavior, and is rich in steroid hormone receptors and aromatase activity. We looked at the contribution of the androgen receptor (AR) to the volume of the VMH in rats by measuring each of the four subdivisions of the VMH in 90 day old male, female, and XY male rats carrying a mutant AR allele (tfm), which renders animals largely unresponsive to androgens. Confirming published reports, total VMH volume was greater in wild-type males than in females (P&lt;0.01). The mean total volume of the VMH in TFM males was intermediate, but not significantly different from either females or males (Ps&gt;0.10). The sex difference in VMH volume was primarily accounted for by the ventrolateral subdivision (VMHvl), which in both females and TFM males was significantly smaller than in wild-type males (Ps&lt;0.005). There was no significant sex difference in the volume of the other three subdivisions of the VMH. Neuronal somata were larger in males than females in VMHvl, central VMH (VMHc) and the dorsomedial VMH (VMHdm), with TFM males having feminine neuronal somata in the VMHdm and VMHc. These data suggest that AR plays a role during sexual differentiation of the VMH, imparting its greatest effect in the VMHvl. ARs may regulate aromatase expression or activity to affect estrogen receptor activation, or may act independently of estrogen receptors to influence VMH morphology.


Longitudinal intrafascicular electrodes (LIFEs) are electrodes designed to be placed inside the peripheral nerve to improve stimulation selectivity and to increase the recording signal-to-noise ratio. We evaluated the functional and morphological effects of either Pt wire LIFEs or polyimide-based thin-film LIFEs implanted in the rat sciatic nerve for 3 mo. The newly designed thin-film LIFEs are more flexible, can be micromachined and allow placement of more active electrode sites than conventional Pt LIFEs. Functional results at 1 mo indicated an initial decline in the nerve conduction velocity and in the amplitude of muscle responses, which recovered during the following 2 mo towards normal values. Morphological results showed that both types of LIFEs induced a mild scar response and a focal but chronic inflammatory reaction, which were limited to a small area around the electrode placed in the nerve. Both types of LIFEs can be considered biocompatible and cause reversible, minimal nerve damage.
We have previously developed a neurodynamical model of motion segregation in cortical visual area V1 and MT of the dorsal stream. The model explains how motion ambiguities caused by the motion aperture problem can be solved for coherently moving objects of arbitrary size by means of cortical mechanisms. The major bottleneck in the development of a reliable biologically inspired technical system with real-time motion analysis capabilities based on this neural model is the amount of memory necessary for the representation of neural activation in velocity space. We propose a sparse coding framework for neural motion activity patterns and suggest a means by which initial activities are detected efficiently. We realize neural mechanisms such as shunting inhibition and feedback modulation in the sparse framework to implement an efficient algorithmic version of our neural model of cortical motion segregation. We demonstrate that the algorithm behaves similarly to the original neural model and is able to extract image motion from real world image sequences. Our investigation transfers a neuroscience model of cortical motion computation to achieve technologically demanding constraints such as real-time performance and hardware implementation. In addition, the proposed biologically inspired algorithm provides a tool for modeling investigations to achieve acceptable simulation time.
Blinking is a good indication of awareness to optical collisions in early infancy. In the current longitudinal study, infants were presented with the image of a looming virtual object approaching on a collision course under different constant velocities and constant accelerations. The aim was to investigate which timing strategies the infants used to determine when to make the defensive blink. Blinking when the virtual object reaches a threshold visual angle (angle-strategy) or angular velocity would result in difficulties with accelerating approaches, while blinking when the object is a certain time away (time-strategy) would enable successful responses to all approaches. Eleven infants were tested longitudinally at 22, 26, and 30 weeks. Five infants switched from an angle- to a time-strategy, while one infant switched from using angular velocity to a time-strategy. Five infants used a time-strategy already at 22 weeks. These findings show that with age there is an attunement in the perceptual systems of infants which makes them switch to better specifying variables, enabling them to successfully time their defensive blinking to impending optical collisions.
The present overview investigates whether different antidepressants have differing discontinuation symptoms upon treatment cessation, if these symptoms vary between depression and anxiety disorders, and with length of treatment. Data came from two comparative studies of escitalopram in major depressive disorder (MDD) (one vs. venlafaxine XR and one vs. paroxetine), two studies in social anxiety disorder (SAD) (one of which used paroxetine as the active reference), and one study in generalized anxiety disorder (GAD), using paroxetine as an active reference [total number of patients: escitalopram (n=1051); paroxetine (n=336); venlafaxine XR (n=124); placebo (n=239)]. All studies included a defined discontinuation period and used the Discontinuation Emergent Signs and Symptoms (DESS) checklist to record the number of discontinuation symptoms. All three antidepressants showed more discontinuation symptoms compared with placebo (p&lt;0.001). Patients reported significantly fewer discontinuation symptoms with escitalopram than with paroxetine and venlafaxine XR in MDD (p&lt;0.05). Escitalopram showed significantly fewer discontinuation symptoms than paroxetine in SAD (p&lt;0.05) and GAD (p&lt;0.001). For each antidepressant, no differences in discontinuation symptoms were observed between the three indications and there was no evidence for increased symptom incidence with increased length of treatment. Thus, discontinuation profiles differ between antidepressants of the same class and are broadly similar in different disorders. No evidence was seen for a higher discontinuation burden with longer treatment.
Theta-burst magnetic fields (1 microT) designed to mimic electrical stimuli employed in vitro to affect long-term potentiation have been previously shown to impair the acquisition of conditioned fear. In the current study, the authors were interested in investigating whether similar magnetic fields could affect the consolidation of food-induced conditioned place preference. Fourteen male Wistar rats were exposed to a theta-burst magnetic field (1 s pulse of 5 trains of an LTP-evoking pattern) continuously or with either a 5 s or 10 s interstimulus interval for 15 min immediately following 6 daily conditioning trials (15 min/day) in a place preference apparatus. Testing demonstrated the durations in the food-paired chamber was significantly shorter for all of the magnetic field-exposed groups compared to the sham-exposed group (they remained for longer periods in the food-paired chamber, typical of normal rats). In addition, the group exposed continuously to the LTP-magnetic field (1-ms interstimulus duration) displayed the least time in the food-paired chamber. The treatments explained 80% of the variance in durations within the experimental setting. These results suggest that exposures to theta-burst magnetic fields elicit amnesic effects for contextual stimuli.
The authors have assumed there are specific temporal patterns of complex electromagnetic fields that can access and affect all levels of brain space. The article presents formulae and results that might reveal the required field configurations to obtain this access and to represent these levels in human consciousness. The frequency for the transition from an imaginary to real solution for the four-dimensional human brain was the wavelength of hydrogen whereas the optimal distance in space was the width of a proton or electron. The time required to expand one Planck's length as inferred by Hubble's constant for the proton was about 1 to 3 ms, the optimal resonant &quot;point duration&quot; of our most bioeffective magnetic fields. Calculations indicated the volume of a proton is equivalent to a tube or string with the radius of Planck's length and the longitudinal length of m (the width of the universe). Solutions from this approach predicted the characteristics of many biological phenomena, seven more &quot;dimensions&quot; of space between Planck's length and the level of the proton, and an inflection point between increments of space and time that corresponded to the distances occupied by chemical bonds. The multiple congruencies of the solutions suggest that brain space could contain inordinately large amounts of information reflecting the nature of extraordinarily large increments of space and time.
The therapeutic action of psychoanalysis, attributed for many years to the interpretation of the repressed libido, has shifted its focus to object relationships. Some modern analysts maintain that the primary factor of psychic change is the new model of object relationship provided by analysis, and do not consider significant the knowledge of episodes comprising implicit memories, whose irrecoverable nature is demonstrated by neuroscience. Nevertheless, the author proposes that the knowledge of specific archaic events, useless as their interpretation may be, offers a glimpse of the make-up of the mind, contributing to the improvement of the empathy indispensable for inducing changes in the patient. Episodes linked to absolute narcissism, in the beginnings of the body ego, which do not appear either in associations or in transference, emerge in dreams. Neuroscience has made possible the understanding of aspects of dreaming capable of providing a glimpse of the genesis of the ego, whose development from the bodily phase of absolute narcissism to the psychic object phase can thus be traced. The unearthing of the genesis of primary structural faults in dreaming furnishes the analyst with an estimate of the possibilities for development of the ego, and this knowledge provides fine tuning capable of guiding the analyst's conduct. A clinical case illustrates how these phenomena occur, showing the intersubjective relationship as the silent primary generator of psychic changes, consolidated and developed secondarily by means of the analytical dialogue.
The authors offer a critical examination of the claims of the proponents of the growing neuropsychoanalytic trend, that neuroscientific findings are relevant and important for the development and justification of psychoanalytic theory and practice. They bring to light some of the intuitions that have led to the popularity of the neuropsychoanalytic claims and the fallacies that underlie these claims and intuitions. They argue that it is crucial at this time to articulate the case against the neuropsychoanalytic trend because, underlying the debate over the relevance of neuroscience to psychoanalysis, there lies a struggle over the essential nature of psychoanalytic theory and practice. Relying on a biologistic perspective, whereby only what is biological is real, this new trend in effect offers a vision of psychoanalysis that limits the significance of the unique psychoanalytic concern with the understanding of meanings and the role of discourse in discerning and justifying these meanings.
In 2002, we published a paper [Brock, J., Brown, C., Boucher, J., Rippon, G., 2002. The temporal binding deficit hypothesis of autism. Development and Psychopathology 142, 209-224] highlighting the parallels between the psychological model of 'central coherence' in information processing [Frith, U., 1989. Autism: Explaining the Enigma. Blackwell, Oxford] and the neuroscience model of neural integration or 'temporal binding'. We proposed that autism is associated with abnormalities of information integration that is caused by a reduction in the connectivity between specialised local neural networks in the brain and possible overconnectivity within the isolated individual neural assemblies. The current paper updates this model, providing a summary of theoretical and empirical advances in research implicating disordered connectivity in autism. This is in the context of changes in the approach to the core psychological deficits in autism, of greater emphasis on 'interactive specialisation' and the resultant stress on early and/or low-level deficits and their cascading effects on the developing brain [Johnson, M.H., Halit, H., Grice, S.J., Karmiloff-Smith, A., 2002. Neuroimaging of typical and atypical development: a perspective from multiple levels of analysis. Development and Psychopathology 14, 521-536]. We also highlight recent developments in the measurement and modelling of connectivity, particularly in the emerging ability to track the temporal dynamics of the brain using electroencephalography (EEG) and magnetoencephalography (MEG) and to investigate the signal characteristics of this activity. This advance could be particularly pertinent in testing an emerging model of effective connectivity based on the balance between excitatory and inhibitory cortical activity [Rubenstein, J.L., Merzenich M.M., 2003. Model of autism: increased ratio of excitation/inhibition in key neural systems. Genes, Brain and Behavior 2, 255-267; Brown, C., Gruber, T., Rippon, G., Brock, J., Boucher, J., 2005. Gamma abnormalities during perception of illusory figures in autism. Cortex 41, 364-376]. Finally, we note that the consequence of this convergence of research developments not only enables a greater understanding of autism but also has implications for prevention and remediation.
Recent years have seen advances in neuroimaging to such an extent that neuroscientists are able to directly study the frequency, location, and timing of neuronal activity to an unprecedented degree. However, marketing science has remained largely unaware of such advances and their huge potential. In fact, the application of neuroimaging to market research--what has come to be called &quot;neuromarketing&quot;--has caused considerable controversy within neuroscience circles in recent times. This paper is an attempt to widen the scope of neuromarketing beyond commercial brand and consumer behaviour applications, to include a wider conceptualisation of marketing science. Drawing from general neuroscience and neuroeconomics, neuromarketing as a field of study is defined, and some future research directions are suggested.


Modern information technology offers efficiencies in medical practice, with a reduction in secretarial time in maintaining, filing and retrieving the paper medical record. Electronic requesting of investigations allows tracking of outstanding results. Less storage space is required and telephone calls from pharmacies, pathology and medical imaging service providers to clarify the hand-written request are abolished. Voice recognition software reduces secretarial typing time per letter. These combined benefits can lead to significantly reduced costs and improved patient care. The paperless office is possible, but requires commitment and training of all staff; it is preferable but not absolutely essential that at least one member of the practice has an interest and some expertise in computers. More importantly, back-up from information technology providers and back-up of the electronic data are absolutely crucial and a paperless environment should not be considered without them.
In a sample of 235 families with at least two children with Attention-Deficit/ Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD), the frequency and familial association of learning disabilities (LD) were assessed. Familiality was examined both between sibling pairs and between parents and their children. Two methods for defining LD, a discrepancy-based and a low-achievement model, were employed to examine the occurrence of LD in this sample. The specific types of LD examined included Reading Disability (RD), Math Disability (MD), and Writing Disability (WD). The prevalence rates were highest for RD, followed by WD then MD. The two definitions of LD yielded similar prevalence rates but identified different groups of children with vastly different IQ scores. Strong familial association was demonstrated for RD both between sibling pairs and between parents and children, with weaker association for WD. There was evidence of nonrandom mating for LD among parents, but not for ADHD or for ADHD + LD. Despite the high comorbidity of ADHD and LD among parents, the presence of ADHD in the parents did not predict child LD supporting independent familial factors underlying ADHD and LD.
Abnormalities in the integration of emotion and cognition have long been considered hallmark characteristics of schizophrenia. Study authors used a well-established emotional memory model from the neuroscience literature to assess the facilitative impact of emotional valence of information on long-term memory consolidation in schizophrenia. Participants with schizophrenia (n=33) indicated somewhat higher levels of emotional intensity in response to emotional images than did healthy (n=28) participants. However, when recognition memory was tested 24 hr later, schizophrenia participants did not show enhancement of memory for positive images as was found in healthy participants. Their memory enhancement for negative images did not differ from that of healthy participants. Correlations between self-reported physical and social anhedonia were significantly inversely correlated with intensity ratings of positive stimuli during the encoding phase for healthy participants but were negligible for schizophrenia participants. These results suggest a failure to adequately integrate positive emotional experience in memory consolidation processes in schizophrenia participants, despite appropriate initial response to positive stimuli, which may contribute to symptoms such as anhedonia by reducing the long-term impact of positive experiences in motivating hedonic behavior in day-to-day life.

H-transfers by 4-, 5-, and 6-membered ring transition states to the pi-bonded methylene of CH3CH2CH2NH+=CH2 (1) are characterized by theory and compared with the corresponding transfers in cation radicals. Four-membered ring H-transfers converting 1 to CH3CH2CH=N+HCH3 (2) and CH3N+H=CH2 to CH2=NH+CH3 are high-energy processes involving rotation of the source and destination RHC= groups (R = H or C2H5) to near bisection by skeletal planes; migrating hydrogens move near these planes. The H-transfer 1 --&gt; CH3C+HCH2NHCH3 (3) has a higher energy transition-state than 1 --&gt; 2, in marked contrast to the corresponding relative energies of 4- and 5-membered ring H-transfers in cation-radicals. Six-membered ring H-transfer-dissociation (1 --&gt; CH2=CH2 + CH2=N+HCH3) is a closed shell analog of the McLafferty rearrangement. It has a lower energy transition-state than either 1 --&gt; 2 or 1 --&gt; 3, but is still a much higher energy process than 6-membered ring H-transfers in aliphatic cation radicals. In contrast to the stepwise McLafferty rearrangement in cation radicals, H-transfer and CC bond breaking are highly synchronous in 1 --&gt; CH3N+H=CH2 + CH2=CH2. H-transfers in propene elimination from 1 are ion-neutral complex-mediated: 1--&gt; [CH3CH2CH2+ ---NH=CH2] --&gt; [CH3C+HCH3 NH=CH2] --&gt; CH3CH = CH2 + CH2=NH2+. Intrinsic reaction coordinate tracing demonstrated that a slight preference for H-transfer from the methyl containing the carbon from which CH2=NH is cleaved is due to CH2=NH passing nearer this methyl than the other on its way to abstracting H, i.e., some memory of the initial orientation of the partners accompanies this reaction.
The scientific study of subjective experience is a current major research area in the neurosciences. Coordination patterns of brain activity are being studied to address the question of how brain function relates to behaviour, and particularly methods to estimate neuronal synchronization can unravel the spatio-temporal dynamics of the transient formation of neuronal assemblies. We report here a biophysical correlate of subjective experience. Subjects visualised figures with different levels of noise, while their brain activity was recorded using magnetoencephalography (MEG), and reported the moment in time (corresponding to a noise level) of figure recognition, which varied between individuals, as well as the moment when they saw the figure more clearly, which was mostly common among the participants (thus less subjective). This latter moment is considered to represent psychophysical stochastic resonance (PSR). Fluctuations in neuronal synchronization, quantified using a diffusion coefficient, were lower in occipital cortex when subjects recognised the figure, for a certain noise level, but did not correlate with the moment of PSR. A different pattern was observed in frontal cortex, where lower values of the diffusion coefficient in neuronal synchronization was maintained from the moment of recognition to the moment of PSR. No specific pattern was found analysing signals from temporal or parietal cortical areas. These observations provide support for distinct synchronization patterns in different cortical areas, and represent another demonstration that the subjective, first-person perspective is accessible to scientific methods.
Despite increasing use of cell-based assays in high-throughput screening (HTS) and lead optimization, one challenge is the adequate supply of high-quality cells expressing the target of interest. To this end, cell lines stably expressing targets are often established, maintained, and scaled up by cell culture. These steps require large investments of time and resources. Moreover, significant variability invariably occurs in cell yield, viability, expression levels, and target activities. In particular, stable expression of targets such as transient receptor potential A1 (TRPA1) causes toxicity, cell line degeneration, and loss of functional activity. Therefore, in an effort to identify TRPA1 antagonists, the authors used large-scale transiently transfected (LSTT) cells, enabling rapid establishment of assays suitable for HTS. LSTT cells, which could- be stored frozen for a long period of time (e.g., at least 42 weeks), retained TRPA1 protein expression and could be easily revived to produce robust and consistent signals in calcium influx and electrophysiological assays. Using cells from a single transfection, a chemical library of 700,000 compounds was screened, and TRPA1 antagonists were identified. The use of LSTT circumvented issues associated with stable TRPA1 expression, increased flexibility and consistency, and greatly reduced labor and cost. This approach will also be applicable to other pharmaceutical targets.
Understanding mechanisms that govern cell fate decisions will lead to developing techniques for induction of adult stem cell differentiation to desired cell outcomes and, thus, production of an autologos source of cells for regenerative medicine. Recently, we demonstrated that stem cells derived from adult central nervous system or bone marrow grown with other cell lineages or with more undifferentiated cells sometimes take on those characteristics. This indicates that manipulating extracellular factors may be sufficient to alter some developmental restrictions regulated by the epigenetic system. In this study, using pharmacological agents that interfere with the main components of the epigenetic program such as DNA methylation and histone deacetylation, we induce high-level expression of embryonic and neural stem cell (NSC) marker Sox2 in bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs). Exposure of these modified cells to a neural environment via juxtacrine and paracrine interactions promote efficient generation of neural stem-like cells as well as cells with neuronal and glial characteristics. We concluded that the manipulation strategy used in this study can be a useful method for efficient production of NSC-like cells from MSCs.

The authors report a 3-year 8-month-old girl presenting with episodic hyperammonemic encephalopathy probably due to a proximal urea cycle disorder. The magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain performed during the third episode revealed extensive and diffuse cerebral cortical signal changes with sparing of occipital cortex. It is believed that intracerebral accumulation of glutamine mainly in astrocytes is the major cause of the encephalopathy. This results in astrocyte swelling, brain edema, intracranial hypertension, and cerebral hypoperfusion.

This study was conducted to examine the neuropsychological effects of white matter and subcortical gray matter pathology. Nineteen patients with multiple sclerosis (MS), 16 with Huntington's disease (HD), and 17 normal controls (NC) participated. Participants completed the California Verbal Learning Test (CVLT), Rotary Pursuit (RP) and Mirror Tracing (MT) tasks, and the Symbol Digit Modalities Test (SDMT). The principal findings pertain to a dissociation in procedural memory: on RP, the HD group demonstrated impaired sequence learning compared to the MS group, which performed similarly to the NC group, yet on MT, the MS and HD groups demonstrated normal perceptual-motor integration learning. On the CVLT, both patient groups performed better on recognition than on recall. On the SDMT, both patient groups performed worse than the NC group, with the HD group performing more poorly than the MS and NC groups. These results suggest that involvement of white and subcortical gray matter may produce different neuropsychological effects.

The presence of perceptual sensitization and related brain responses was examined in 14 chronic low back pain (CLBP) patients and 13 healthy controls comparable in age and sex. Multichannel EEG recordings and pain ratings were obtained during the presentation of 800 painful electrical intramuscular and intracutaneous stimuli each to the left m. erector spinae and the left m. extensor digitorum. Perception and pain thresholds were not significantly different between the two groups, though patients showed significantly more perceptual sensitization. Across all stimulation conditions, a larger EEG component 80 milliseconds after stimulation was observed in the CLBP group. No significant group differences were found for the N150. The component 260 milliseconds after stimulus onset was significantly smaller in the CLBP group. N80, N150, and perceptual sensitization were significantly positively correlated. These results indicate enhanced perceptual sensitization and enhanced processing of the sensory-discriminative aspect of pain, as expressed in the N80 component, in CLBP patients. This may be one neurophysiologic basis of sensitization and the chronicity process. The lower P260 component in the patients may be explained in terms of tonic pain inhibiting phasic pain or may be related to the affective distress observed in this patient group.
Electrophysiological evaluation of cranial nerves provides information on its functional aspects and may be a valuable adjunct to imaging. In 10 normal subjects, we used transcranial magnetic stimulation with a double cone coil at the posterior head region to obtain orbicularis oris motor evoked potentials. Our findings suggest activation of descending facial fibers proximal to brainstem motoneurons. This method is advocated as an adjunct in the electrodiagnostic workup of facial nerve dysfunction.

Universiti Sains Malaysia is the only institution in Malaysia which incorporates all fields of the neurosciences under one roof. The integration of basic and clinical neurosciences has made it possible for this institution to become an excellent academic and research centre. This article describes the history, academic contributions and scientific progress of neurosciences at Universiti Sains Malaysia.
NXY-059 is a novel free radical-trapping neuroprotectant that reduces infarct size and preserves brain function in animal models of acute ischemic stroke. It is the first neuroprotectant to demonstrate a reduction in global disability in a phase III clinical trial, as measured by the modified Rankin Scale. Any effect of NXY-059 on hemostasis may be important when treating stroke patients. This phase I randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 3-period crossover study compared the effect of NXY-059, desmopressin, and placebo on bleeding time, platelet aggregation, and adhesion in 30 healthy volunteers. NXY-059 did not prolong bleeding time compared with placebo: mean (SD) time for NXY-059, 369.5 seconds (125.0 seconds) versus placebo, 369.1 seconds (136.0 seconds). There were no significant effects on platelet aggregation or adhesion. At a mean unbound plasma concentration (Cu(ss)) of 335 micromol/L, NXY-059 was well tolerated, with no major safety concerns identified. In conclusion, NXY-059 does not appear to affect primary hemostasis.



Brain mechanisms for telling lies have been investigated recently using neuroimaging techniques such as functional magnetic resonance imaging and positron emission tomography. Although the advent of these techniques has gradually enabled clarification of the functional contributions of the prefrontal cortex in deception with respect to executive function, the specific roles of subregions within the prefrontal cortex and other brain regions responsible for emotional regulation or social interactions during deception are still unclear. Assuming that the processes of falsifying truthful responses and deceiving others are differentially associated with the activities of these regions, we conducted a positron emission tomography experiment with 2 (truth, lie) x 2 (honesty, dishonesty) factorial design. The main effect of falsifying the truthful responses revealed increased brain activity of the left dorsolateral and right anterior prefrontal cortices, supporting the interpretation of previous studies that executive functions are related to making untruthful responses. The main effect of deceiving the interrogator showed activations of the ventromedial prefrontal (medial orbitofrontal) cortex and amygdala, adding new evidence that the brain regions assumed to be responsible for emotional processing or social interaction are active during deceptive behavior similar to that in real-life situations. Further analysis revealed that activity of the right anterior prefrontal cortex showed both effects of deception, indicating that this region has a pivotal role in telling lies. Our results provide clear evidence of functionally dissociable roles of the prefrontal subregions and amygdala for human deception.
A prerequisite for understanding how odor information is coded in the central nervous system is to know the morphology and spatial relationship of the principal neurons forming the olfactory pathways. The present account provides an anatomical description of the morphology of the neuronal connections between the antennal lobe and the protocerebrum in the moth Heliothis virescens, a species used for studies of olfactory processing and learning. Intracellular labeling and antennal lobe focal injections with dextran fluorescent markers were combined with neuropil immunostaining and three-dimensional reconstructions. The experiments revealed four antennocerebral tracts, the inner, middle, outer, and dorsomedial, and eight morphological types of projection neurons in addition to a neuron with an unpaired median soma in the subesophageal ganglion. Multiglomerular projection neurons, present in all but the dorsomedial antennocerebral tract, project in several olfactory foci of the protocerebral neuropil. With few exceptions, these neurons do not innervate the calyces of the mushroom body. Uniglomerular projection neurons appear most numerous in the inner antennocerebral tract but are also present in the outer and dorsomedial tracts. These neurons always ramify in the calyces of the mushroom body and in the lateral horn. The projection areas of the neurons following different tracts are largely separated in the secondary olfactory centers. This is most evident in the lateral horn, whereas, in the calyces, the axonal ramifications are more intermingled. The mushroom body architecture, revealed by neuropil immunolabeling, showed striking similarities to that of other lepidopteran species as well as insects of other taxa.
In mammalian spinal motoneurons (MNs), the slow component of the afterhyperpolarization (AHP) that follows the spike of each action potential is a major but not the sole determinant of the cells' firing rate. In this brief historical review, we emphasize four points about the AHP-firing rate relation. (1) There is a relatively sparse literature across vertebrates that directly addresses this topic. (2) After the advent of intracellular recording in the early 1950s, there was evidence from mammals to the contrary of an idea that subsequently became prevalent: that the high-firing rates attainable by spinal interneurons (INs) and low-threshold MNs was attributable to their small AHP at rheobase. (3) Further work is needed to determine whether our present findings on the AHP-firing rate relation of turtle cells generalize to the spinal neurons of other vertebrate species. (4) Relevant to point 3, substantial in vivo and in vitro work is potentially available in raw data used in reports on several mammalian and non-mammalian vertebrates. In summary, the factors in addition to the slow AHP that help determine spinal INs and MN firing rate deserve further evaluation across vertebrates, with relevant data already potentially available in several laboratories.
Acute choice behavior in ingesting two different concentrations of sucrose in Drosophila is presumed to include learning and memory. Effects on this behavior were examined for four mutations that block associative learning (dunce, rutabaga, amnesiac, and radish). Three of these mutations cause cyclic AMP signaling defects and significantly reduced taste discrimination. The exception was radish, which affects neither. Electrophysiological recordings confirmed that the sensitivity of taste receptors is almost indistinguishable in all flies, whether wild type or mutant. These results suggest that food choice behavior in Drosophila involves central nervous learning and memory operating via cyclic AMP signaling pathways.
The primary purpose of the present study was to determine whether multisystemic therapy (MST), an intensive, home-based psychotherapy, improved regimen adherence, metabolic control, and rates of hospitalization for diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) among adolescents with chronically poorly controlled Type 1 diabetes 6 months after the completion of treatment. A randomized controlled trial was conducted with 127 adolescents and their families. Mean participant age was 13.2 years. Sixty-three percent of participants were African American, and 51% were female. Data were collected at baseline, treatment termination, and 6-month follow-up. Changes in glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c), frequency of blood glucose testing (BGT), and rate of DKA admissions were assessed. In intent-to-treat analyses, a main effect of MST on DKA admissions was found at both treatment termination and follow-up. Improvements in BGT were moderated by family composition; only 2-parent MST families maintained improvements at follow-up. Improvements in HbA1c for the MST group at treatment termination were lost at follow-up. Results show that intensive, home-based psychotherapy created stable reductions in serious lapses in adherence, as indexed by episodes of DKA, among youth with poorly controlled diabetes.
Transcriptional regulation of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) is a complex event that requires the cooperative action of both viral (e.g. Tat) and cellular (e.g. C/EBPbeta, NF-kappaB) factors. The HIV-1 Tat protein recruits the human positive transcription elongation factor P-TEFb, consisting of cdk9 and cyclin T1, to the HIV-1 transactivation response (TAR) region. In the absence of TAR, Tat activates the HIV-1 long terminal repeat (LTR) through its association with several cellular factors including C/EBPbeta. C/EBPbeta is a member of the CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein family of transcription factors and has been shown to be a critical transcriptional regulator of HIV-1 LTR. We examined whether Tat-C/EBPbeta association requires the presence of the P-TEFb complex. Using immunoprecipitation followed by Western blot, we demonstrated that C/EBPbeta-cyclin T1 association requires the presence of cdk9. Further, due to its instability, cdk9 was unable to physically interact with C/EBPbeta in the absence of cyclin T1 or Tat. Using kinase assays, we demonstrated that cdk9, but not a cdk9 dominant-negative mutant (cdk9-dn), phosphorylates C/EBPbeta. Our functional data show that co-transfection of C/EBPbeta and cdk9 leads to an increase in HIV-1 gene expression when compared to C/EBPbeta alone. Addition of C/EBP homologous protein (CHOP) inhibits C/EBPbeta transcriptional activity in the presence and absence of cdk9 and causes a delay in HIV-1 replication in T-cells. Together, our data suggest that Tat-C/EBPbeta association is mediated through cdk9, and that phosphorylated C/EBPbeta may influence AIDS progression by increasing expression of HIV-1 genes.
The objective was to describe the premorbid state of migraine with juvenile onset. Thirty subjects with migraine and 30 healthy subjects were enrolled in a case-control study. A structured questionnaire (Child Behavior Checklist, CBCL) was administered to the mothers and ratings were obtained for the past two age periods (0-3 and 4-6 years) and for the present state. CBCL scores of the migraine group (MG) were compared to those of the control group (CG) during the three periods. A longitudinal study was performed to evaluate the evolution of psychopathology comparing CBCL scores of MG in the three age periods. During the premorbid period MG showed significantly higher mean scores on total, internalising, anxious-depressive scales. In the longitudinal perspective, internalising traits were present in the premorbid period in MG. Children later diagnosed as having migraine differ from CG in several scales during different age periods. Migraine could be considered as the expression of a previous vulnerability.


Dowling-Degos disease (DDD) is an autosomal-dominant genodermatosis characterized by reticulate pigmentation of the flexures. By direct DNA sequencing, we have identified a frameshift mutation in exon 1 of KRT5 in the proband from an extended Spanish DDD kindred. Cloning of PCR products confirmed that this was a 2-bp deletion mutation, designated c.442delAG, leading to a premature termination codon in the V1 domain of the K5 polypeptide, designated p.S148fsX30. These data confirm that haploinsufficiency for K5 causes DDD and points to a prominent role for the keratin intermediate filament cytoskeleton within basal keratinocytes in epidermal pigment biology.


Modern surgery developed in the second half of the 19th century, at the end of which neurosurgery was established as a profitable region of operative intervention. In the British Isles, the first exponent was Sir William Macewen (1848-1924) in Glasgow. But neuroscience had advanced in London due to the excellence of the neurologists in the several hospitals there. Foremost among English neurosurgeons was Victor Horsley whose career had a worldwide influence on the speciality. Initially, operations were carried out for cranial trauma, the removal of displaced bone or blood clot, and the drainage of abscesses arising from infection of the middle ears and air sinuses. The diagnosis of brain and spinal tumours by neurologists encouraged removal by surgeons, of which Horsley was among the earliest. Horsley performed many operations on animals, experiments opposed by the anti-vivisectionists whose campaigns Horsley countered. Horsley had many other interests, some of which displeased the establishment, and in World War I his experience in neurosurgery was not used. He served as a general surgeon, visiting Egypt, India and Mesopotamia where, in Amara, he died from hyperpyrexia complicating bacillary dysentery.
A novel single-nucleotide deletion in exon 100 of the RYR1 gene, corresponding to deletion of nucleotide 14,510 in the human RyR1 mRNA (c14510delA), was identified in a man with malignant hyperthermia and in his two daughters who were normal for malignant hyperthermia. This deletion results in a RyR1 protein lacking the last 202 amino acid residues. All three subjects heterozygotic for the mutated allele presented with a prevalence of type 1 fibres with central cores, although none experienced clinical signs of myopathy. Expression of the truncated protein resulted in non-functional RYR1 calcium release channels. Expression of wild-type and RyR1(R4836fsX4838) proteins resulted in heterozygotic release channels with overall functional properties similar to those of wild-type RyR1 channels. Nevertheless, small differences in sensitivity to calcium and caffeine were observed in heterotetrameric channels, which also presented an altered assembly/stability in sucrose-gradient centrifugation analysis. Altogether, these data suggest that altered RYR1 tetramer assembly/stability coupled with subtle chronic changes in Ca2+ homoeostasis over the long term may contribute to the development of core lesions and incomplete malignant hyperthermia susceptibility penetrance in individuals carrying this novel RYR1 mutation.
The simultaneous expression of 19 apoptosis-related genes was analyzed by RNA-protection assay in peripheral blood mononuclear cells of HIV-infected patients before and during successful antiretroviral therapy (ART). After 12 months of therapy, the expression of the pro-apoptotic genes FAS, FAS-L, FAF-1, FADD, CASPASE-8, DR3, TRAIL, TNFR-1, TRADD, and BAX was significantly downregulated with respect to time 0, while that of BCL-2, BCL-XL, and MCL-1 was significantly upregulated. The data suggest that inhibition of cell death in HIV-positive patients under successful therapy is the result of a complex network of multifactor signaling, correlated with both death and survival of lymphocytes.
This study retested effects of a Memory Structuring Intervention (MSI) and the moderating role of gender in relation to posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) symptoms. Thirty-four traffic accident victims with high pulse rates were randomly assigned to MSI or supportive listening (control) phone conversations soon after accidents. Based on converging clinical and neuroscience research, the MSI taught chronological organization, labeling emotions/sensations, and describing causality. PTSD symptoms were assessed 3 months later. No overall group differences were found. However, a group by gender interaction revealed that, for women, the MSI was associated with less PTSD symptoms than the control treatment, while the opposite pattern was seen in men. Limitations and possible explanations for these findings are discussed.
Phospholipase A(2) (PLA(2)) is a key enzyme in cerebral phospholipid metabolism. Preliminary post-mortem studies have shown that PLA(2) activity is decreased in frontal and parietal areas of the AD brain, which is in accordance with recent (31)P-Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy evidence of reduced phospholipid turnover in the pre-frontal cortex of moderately demented AD patients. Such abnormality may also be observed in peripheral cells, and reduced PLA(2) activity in platelet membranes of AD patients, and correlates with the severity of dementia. In rat hippocampal slices, PLA(2) has been implicated in mechanisms of synaptic plasticity. In adult rats, the stereotaxic injection of PLA(2) inhibitors in the CA1 area of hippocampus impaired, in a dose-dependent manner, the formation of short- and long-term memory. Additionally, such inhibition resulted in a reduction of the fluidity of hippocampal membranes. In primary cultures of cortical and hippocampal neurons, the inhibition of PLA(2) precluded neurite outgrowth, and the sustained inhibition of the enzyme in mature cultures lead to loss of viability. Taken together, these findings reinforce the involvement of PLA(2) enzymes in neurodevelopment and neurodegeneration processes, and further suggest that reduced PLA(2) activity, probably reducing membrane phospholipids breakdown, may contribute to the memory impairment in AD.
C57/BL6 mice were administered either postnatal iron (Fe(2+) 7.5 mg/kg, on postnatal days 10-12) or vehicle, followed by administration of either DSP4 (50 mg/kg, s.c., 30 min after injection of zimeldine, 20 mg/kg, s.c.) or vehicle (saline) at 63 days of age. Three weeks later, iron/vehicle treated, DSP4/vehicle treated mice were injected with either a low dose of MPTP (2 x 20 mg/kg, with a 24-hr interval between injections) or vehicle. Behaviour testing took place a further three weeks (spontaneous behaviour and L-Dopa induced) and two weeks (clonidine-L-Dopa induced) later. Postnatal iron administration exacerbated the bradykinesia induced by MPTP and virtually abolished all spontaneous motor activity in NA-denervated mice that were MPTP-treated. Postnatal iron administration reduced markedly the restoration of motor activity by suprathreshold L-Dopa (20 mg/kg) following a 60-min habituation to the test chambers. Pretreatment with DSP4 effectively eliminated the restorative effect of L-Dopa in the MPTP mice. The synergistic effects of co-administration of clinidine (1 mg/kg) with a subthreshold dose of L-Dopa (5 mg/kg) in elevating the motor activity of MPTP mice were reduced markedly by postnatal iron administration, as well as by pretreatment with DSP4. NA-denervation by DSP4, after postnatal iron treatment, totally abolished the activity-elevating effects of the alpha-adrenoceptor agonist + DA-precursor combination in MPTP mice, and virtually eliminated these effects in saline (non-MPTP) mice. Postnatal iron administration caused enduring higher levels of total iron content in all the groups with an increased level in mice treated with DSP4 followed by MPTP. These divergent findings confirm the direct influence of NA innervation upon dopaminergic functional expression and indicate a permanent vulnerability both in the noradrenergic and dopaminergic pathways following the postnatal infliction of an iron overload.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of stimulation of D2 receptors in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) on spontaneous motor activity and the hyperactivity induced by the psychomimetic phencyclidine (PCP). In addition, the effects of prefrontal D2 stimulation under PCP treatment on dialysate concentrations of acetylcholine, choline, dopamine, DOPAC and HVA in the nucleus accumbens were also investigated. Sprague-Dawley male rats were implanted with guide cannulae to perform bilateral injections into the medial PFC of the D2 agonist quinpirole (1.5 and 5 microg/side). Horizontal and vertical spontaneous motor activity and the motor activity induced by systemic injections of the PCP (5 mg/kg i.p.) were monitored in the open field. PFC injections of quinpirole (1.5 and 5 microg/side) significantly decreased horizontal and vertical spontaneous motor activity in a dose-related manner. These effects were blocked by the D2 antagonist raclopride (5 microg/side). Microinjections of quinpirole (1.5 and 5 microg/side) into the PFC also significantly attenuated the hyperactivity produced by PCP (5 mg/kg i.p.). PCP also increased dialysate concentrations of acetylcholine, and dopamine metabolites in the nucleus accumbens. These increases were also reduced by injections of quinpirole (5 microg/side) into the PFC. These results suggest that the stimulation of prefrontal D2 receptors plays an inhibitory role in regulating spontaneous and PCP-induced motor activity and also in the neurochemical changes produced by PCP in the nucleus accumbens.


The Adhesion family of G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) includes 33 receptors and is the second largest GPCR family. Most of these proteins are still orphans and fairly little is known of their tissue distribution and evolutionary context. We report the evolutionary history of the Adhesion family protein GPR123 as well as mapping of GPR123 mRNA expression in mouse and rat using in situ hybridization and real-time PCR, respectively. GPR123 was found to be well conserved within the vertebrate lineage, especially within the transmembrane regions and in the distal part of the cytoplasmic tail, containing a potential PDZ binding domain. The real-time PCR data indicates that GPR123 is predominantly expressed in CNS. The in situ data show high expression in thalamic nuclei and regions containing large pyramidal cells like cortex layers 5 and 6 and subiculum. Moreover, we found distinct expression in amygdala, hypothalamus, inferior olive and spinal cord. The CNS specific expression, together with the high sequence conservation between the vertebrate sequences investigated, indicate that GPR123 may have an important role in the regulation of neuronal signal transduction.
A number of proteins and signalling molecules modulate voltage-gated calcium channel activity and neurosecretion. As recent findings have indicated the presence of Ca(v)2.1 (P/Q-type) channels and soluble N-ethyl-maleimide-sensitive fusion protein attachment protein receptors (SNAREs) in the cholesterol-enriched microdomains of neuroendocrine and neuronal cells, we investigated whether molecules known to modulate neurosecretion, such as the heterotrimeric G proteins and neuronal calcium sensor-1 (NCS-1), are also localized in these microdomains. After immuno-isolation, flotation gradients from Triton X-100-treated synaptosomal membranes revealed the presence of different detergent-resistant membranes (DRMs) containing proteins of the exocytic machinery (Ca(v)2.1 channels and SNAREs) or NCS-1; both DRM subtypes contained aliquots of heterotrimeric G protein subunits and phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate. In line with the biochemical data, confocal imaging of immunolabelled membrane sheets revealed the localization of SNARE proteins and NCS-1 in different dot-like structures. This distribution was largely impaired by treatment with methyl-beta-cyclodextrin, thus suggesting the localization of all three proteins in cholesterol-dependent domains. Finally, bradykinin (which is known to activate the NCS-1 pathway) caused a significant increase in NCS-1 in the DRMs. These findings suggest that different membrane microdomains are involved in the spatial organization of the complex molecular network that converges on calcium channels and the secretory machinery.
Interleukin (IL)-6 is a pro-inflammatory cytokine now widely recognized to contribute to the molecular events that follow CNS injury. Little is known, however, about its action on axonal sprouting and regeneration in the brain. We addressed this issue using the model of transection of Schaffer collaterals in mice organotypic hippocampal slice cultures. Transection of slice cultures was associated with a marked release of IL-6 that could be neutralized by an IL-6 blocking antibody. We monitored functional recovery across the lesion by recording synaptic responses using a multi-electrode array. We found that application of IL-6 antibodies to the cultures after lesioning significantly reduced functional recovery across the lesion. Furthermore, the level of expression of the 43-kDa growth-associated protein (GAP-43) was lower in slices treated with the IL-6 neutralizing antibody than in those treated with a control IgG. Conversely, addition of exogenous IL-6 to the culture medium resulted in a dose-dependent enhancement of functional recovery across the lesion and a higher level of expression of GAP-43. Co-culture of CA3 hemi-slices from thy1-YFP mice with CA1 hemi-slices from wild-type animals confirmed that IL-6-treated co-cultures exhibited an increased number of growing fluorescent fibres across the lesion site. Taken together these data indicate that IL-6 plays an important role in CNS repair mechanisms by promoting regrowth and axon regeneration.
The present study examined the effects of reserpine on the extracellular concentration of accumbal dopamine in high responders (HR) and low responders (LR) to novelty rats. Reserpine reduced the baseline concentration of extracellular accumbal dopamine more in HR than in LR, indicating that the dopamine release is more dependent on reserpine-sensitive storage vesicles in non-challenged HR than in non-challenged LR. In addition, reserpine reduced the novelty-induced increase of the extracellular concentration of accumbal dopamine in LR, but not in HR, indicating that the dopamine release in response to novelty depends on reserpine-sensitive storage vesicles only in LR, not in HR. Our data clearly demonstrate that HR and LR differ in the characteristics of those monoaminergic storage vesicles that mediate accumbal dopamine release.
The aim of this study was to investigate further the hormone-dependent processes underlying sex differences in neurotoxic responses within the rat nigrostriatal dopaminergic (NSDA) pathway after partial lesioning with 6-OHDA, a state thought to mimic the early stages of Parkinson's disease where, in humans and animal models alike, males appear to be more susceptible. Contrary to our hypotheses, hormone manipulations (gonadectomy +/- oestrogen or androgen treatment) failed to alter survival of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactive cells in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) after lesioning; this indicates that, unlike inherent sex differences in toxin-induced striatal dopamine depletion, sex differences in cell loss were not hormonally generated, and that hormone-dependent changes in dopamine depletion can occur independently of cell survival. In addition, hormonally induced changes in striatal expression of the dopamine transporter (DAT), an important factor for 6-OHDA toxicity, did not correlate with hormonal influences on striatal dopamine loss and, in males, central inhibition of aromatase prior to 6-OHDA infusion exacerbated striatal dopamine loss with no effect on SNc tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive survival, suggesting locally generated oestrogen is neuroprotective. These results support the novel view that sex steroid hormones produced peripherally and centrally play a significant, sex-specific role within the sexually dimorphic NSDA pathway to modulate plastic, compensatory responses aimed at restoring striatal dopamine functionality, without affecting cell loss.
In mammals, daily rhythms in behaviour and physiology are driven by a circadian timing system comprised, in a hierarchical way, of a master pacemaker in the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) of the hypothalamus and of peripheral oscillators in most body cells. At the molecular level, in both the SCN and peripheral oscillators, the circadian clock mechanism is built from interconnected feedback loops in gene expression that operate in a cell-autonomous and self-sustained fashion. The SCN clock is mainly entrained by light/dark cycles. By contrast, peripheral oscillators can be strongly affected by daily feeding cycles, which have little effect on the phase of the SCN. However, when feeding schedules are coupled with a caloric restriction, behavioural and physiological circadian rhythms and gene expression in the SCN are shifted and/or entrained to meal-time. Moreover, the reward and motivational value of food can also be a potent synchroniser for the SCN clock. This suggests that energy metabolism and motivational properties of food can influence the clock mechanism of the SCN. Food-related cues may entrain clock genes of the SCN with a direct effect, or be mediated indirectly by another neural or peripheral site. In addition, there may be one or more oscillator sites that would play an integral role as a food-entrained oscillator (FEO), responsible for anticipation of meal-time. The site housing, or the network underlying, this putative FEO is still unknown. The aim of this review is to summarise our current knowledge of the central and peripheral circadian clocks and how they can be entrained by feeding at the physiological and molecular levels.
There has been little research on effects of chronic stressors on neuroendocrine function in adolescence despite increasing evidence of enduring effects of stressors during this period on behaviour in adulthood. We previously reported that social stress (SS: daily 1 h isolation and new cage partner for 16 days) in adolescence altered locomotor responses to psychostimulants in adulthood. Here, we investigated neuroendocrine responses over the duration of the procedure that may underlie the enduring effects of SS. SS rats were compared to rats undergoing daily isolation only (ISO) and controls (CTL) to determine responses to acute and repeated isolation with and without social instability. At 30 days of age (first isolation), higher plasma corticosterone and corticotrophin-releasing hormone (CRH) mRNA expression in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus and in the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) were found in males caged with a new partner (SS) after isolation than those returned to their original partner (ISO). On day 45, SS males and females showed less habituation (higher bioactive levels of corticosterone based on plasma corticosterone and corticosteroid binding globulin levels) to the 16th episode of isolation than did ISO. SS and ISO had higher baseline expression of CRH mRNA in the PVN on day 45 than did CTL, and only CTL had increased levels after isolation. CRH mRNA expression in the CeA increased to a first isolation in CTL and to a 16th isolation in SS but not in ISO males. Modest differences in social interactions were observed between SS and ISO when returned to their cages after isolation. The results suggest that mild social stressors in adolescence impede neuroendocrine adaptation to homotypic stressors. The resultant increase in exposure to glucocorticoids over adolescence may alter ongoing brain development and increase vulnerability to psychopathology.
Guillain-Barr syndrome (GBS) is a monophasic inflammatory disease considered to be due to autoimmunity. In order to test the hypothesis that the disease is associated with a perturbation of the circulating lymphoid cell population, we tested the mononuclear cells from the venous blood of 21 patients with Guillain-Barr syndrome (GBS) and 20 healthy controls by flow cytometry. The proportions and numbers of B and T lymphocytes, and CD4, CD8, double negative and gammadelta T cell subsets and numbers of monocytes were not significantly different in the patients compared with the controls. However, the number and proportion of CD4+CD25+ cells were reduced in acute GBS (mean number 61.7 cells/microl, 95% CI 42.9-80.4 and mean percentage 4.6%, 95% CI 3.8-5.4) compared with controls (mean number 99.8 cells/microl, 95% CI 74.7-124.9, p=0.02, and mean percentage 6.0%, 95% CI 4.9-7.1%, p=0.037). In addition, in GBS patients, the number and proportion of CD4+ T cells expressing CD25+ and HLA-DP, DQ, DR (mean number 11.9 cells/microl, 95% CI 7.6-16.1 and mean percentage 0.8%, 95% CI 0.5-1.1%) was lower than in healthy controls (23.5 cells/microl, 95% CI 16.4-30.6, p=0.01, and mean percentage 1.4%, 95% CI 1.1-1.8%, p=0.005. Since CD4+CD25+ cells include cells with special immunoregulatory functions, further investigation of this phenomenon and its relation to possible loss of regulatory T cell function in GBS is warranted.
We tested the hypotheses that prior injury to the facial motor nucleus (FMN) would elicit a more robust T cell response in the opposite FMN when the contralateral facial nerve was injured later in life, and that this would result in improved neuroregeneration. Measures of T cell, neuronal and microglial status were compared in sensitized mice (right facial nerve transection followed by contralateral facial nerve transection 9.5 weeks later) and nave mice (sham surgery of the right facial nerve followed by contralateral facial nerve transection 9.5 weeks later) following axotomy of the contralateral facial nerve. At day 14 post-axotomy, sensitized mice exhibited nearly a two-fold increase in T cells in the FMN compared to nave mice. There were no differences between the groups in levels of dead neurons and NeuN expression by surviving motor neurons at day 14, or motor neuron survival and cell area at day 49 post-axotomy. Measures of microglial responsiveness did not differ between the groups. Further study is needed to delineate the role of endogenous T cell memory in neuronal injury and regeneration.
Adoptive transfer of lymphoid cells from Copolymer 1 (Cop-1) immunized mice leads to T cell accumulation within the substantia nigra, modulation of microglial responses, upregulation of glial cell derived neurotrophic factor, and protection of the nigrostriatum following 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) intoxication. We now demonstrate that T cells isolated from lymph nodes and spleens of Cop-1 immunized animals protect the nigrostriatal system from MPTP-induced neurodegeneration in a dose-dependent manner. CD4+ T cells elicited the most significant neuroprotective response while high titers of anti-Cop-1 antibodies showed no effect. These data further support the use of immunomodulatory strategies for Parkinson's disease.
We have analysed the microglial pathway stimulated by interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) using an in silico approach employing a database of eukaryotic molecular interactions and a microarray dataset validated by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR). Following IFN-gamma stimulation, production of neuroprotective factors by microglia was found to be reduced while caspase 1 and serping1 which are involved in cell death cascades are up-regulated suggesting a safeguarding mechanism. Extracellular matrix interactions and intracellular protein degradation are altered in concert with these changes. The regulatory network of IFN-gamma responsive microglial genes is outlined in detail and differentially expressed genes are mapped to their respective cellular compartments. A pathway approach to the analysis of microarray data is advocated since overlaying pathway and actual expression data as shown here greatly facilitates understanding the biological meaning of a gene regulatory network. In addition, genes of similar function that are differentially regulated are less likely to be false positives than single unrelated genes.


Transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta is a multifunctional cytokine with anti-inflammatory, reparative and neuroprotective functions. Increased levels of TGFbeta in Alzheimer disease (AD) are associated with perivascular deposition of extracellular matrix, which may impair clearance of beta-amyloid and contribute to the development of cerebral amyloid angiopathy. TGFbeta signaling is transduced by Smad proteins: on TGFbeta receptor activation, Smads 2 and 3 are released from sequestration by microtubules, phosphorylated (forming pSmad2/3), and, together with Smad 4, translocated to the nucleus, where they initiate the transcription of multiple genes. Neuronal microtubule assembly is disturbed in AD when tau, a microtubule-stabilizing protein, is hyperphosphorylated and forms neurofibrillary tangles. We have investigated the relationship between Ser202 phospho-tau and pSmads 2 and 3 in the temporal lobe in AD. Within neurons in control brains, pSmads 2 and 3 were almost exclusively intranuclear. In AD, pSmad 3 bound to phospho-tau (mostly insoluble tau) and accumulated in the cytoplasm of tangle-bearing neurons; this was accompanied by a marked decrease in nuclear pSmad3. pSmads 2 and 3 were also present in neuronal granulovacuolar inclusions. Our findings suggest that neurofibrillary tangles sequester pSmad3, preventing its translocation into the nucleus and the induction of gene transcription. Interference with the Smad signaling may adversely affect survival of tangle-bearing neurons in AD.
Rett syndrome (RTT) is a major neurodevelopmental disorder, characterized by mental retardation and autistic behavior. Mutation of the MeCP2 gene, encoding methyl CpG-binding protein 2, causes the disease. The pathomechanism by which MeCP2 dysfunction leads to the RTT phenotype has not been elucidated. We found that MeCP2 directly regulates expression of insulin-like growth factor binding protein 3 (IGFBP3) gene in human and mouse brains. A chromatin immunoprecipitation assay showed that the IGFBP3 promoter contained an MeCP2 binding site. IGFBP3 overexpression was observed in the brains of mecp2-null mice and human RTT patients using real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction and Western blot analyses. Moreover, mecp2-null mice showed a widely distributed and increased number of IGFBP3-positive cells in the cerebral cortex, whereas wild-type mice at the same age showed fewer IGFBP3-positive cells. These results suggest that IGFBP3 is a downstream gene regulated by MeCP2 and that the previously reported BDNF and DLX5 genes and MeCP2 may contribute directly to the transcriptional expression of IGFBP3 in the brain. Interestingly, the pathologic features of mecp2-null mice have some similarities to those of IGFBP3-transgenic mice, which show a reduction of early postnatal growth. IGFBP3 overexpression due to lack of MeCP2 may lead to delayed brain maturation.
Many behaviors display various forms of activity-dependent plasticity. An example of such plasticity is the progressive shortening of the duration of protraction phase of feeding responses of Aplysia that occurs when feeding responses are repeatedly elicited. A similar protraction-duration shortening is observed in isolated ganglia of Aplysia when feeding-like motor programs are elicited through a prolonged stimulation of the command-like neuron CBI-2. Here, we investigate a cellular mechanism that may underlie this activity-dependent shortening of protraction duration of feeding motor programs. CBI-2 contains two neuropeptides, CP2 and FCAP. Previous work showed that CP2 shortens protraction duration of CBI-2 elicited programs. We show here that the same is true for FCAP. We also show that both CP2 and FCAP modulated the biophysical properties of a plateau-generating neuron, B64, that plays an important role in terminating the protraction phase of feeding motor programs. We find that prestimulation of CBI-2, as well as superfusion of CP2 and FCAP, lowered the threshold for activation of the plateau potential in B64. The threshold-lowering actions of CBI-2 prestimulation were occluded by superfusion of FCAP and CP2. Furthermore, at elevated temperature, conditions under which peptide release is prevented in Aplysia, prestimulation of CBI-2 does not lower the plateau-potential threshold, whereas superfusion of CP2 and FCAP does. Our findings are consistent with the hypothesis that peptides released from CBI-2 lower the threshold for activation of plateau potential in B64, thereby contributing to the shortening of protraction duration when CBI-2 is repeatedly activated.
The face and voice can independently convey the same information about emotion. When we see an angry face or hear an angry voice, we can perceive a person's anger. These two different sensory cues are interchangeable in this sense. However, it is still unclear whether the same group of neurons process signals for facial and vocal emotions. We recorded neuronal activity in the amygdala of monkeys while watching nine video clips of species-specific emotional expressions: three monkeys showing three emotional expressions (aggressive threat, scream, and coo). Of the 227 amygdala neurons tested, 116 neurons (51%) responded to at least one of the emotional expressions. These &quot;monkey-responsive&quot; neurons-that is, neurons that responded to monkey-specific emotional expression-preferred the scream to other emotional expressions irrespective of identity. To determine the element crucial to neuronal responses, the activity of 79 monkey-responsive neurons was recorded while a facial or vocal element of a stimulus was presented alone. Although most neurons (61/79, 77%) strongly responded to the visual but not to the auditory element, about one fifth (16/79, 20%) maintained a good response when either the facial or vocal element was presented. Moreover, these neurons maintained their stimulus-preference profiles under facial and vocal conditions. These neurons were found in the central nucleus of the amygdala, the nucleus that receives inputs from other amygdala nuclei and in turn sends outputs to other emotion-related brain areas. These supramodal responses to emotion would be of use in generating appropriate responses to information regarding either facial or vocal emotion.
Sensory input is critical for adapting motor outputs to meet environmental conditions. A ubiquitous force on all terrestrial animals is gravity. It is possible that when performing rhythmic movements, animals respond to load-related feedback in the same way by prolonging the muscle activity resisting the load. We hypothesized that for rhythmic leg movements, the period (extension or flexion) experiencing the higher load will be longer and vary more strongly with cycle period. Six rhythmic movements were studied in human infants (aged 3-10 mo), each providing different degrees of load-related feedback to the legs during flexion and extension of the limb. Kicking in supine provided similar loads (inertial) during flexion and extension. Stepping on a treadmill, kicking in supine against a foot-plate, and kicking in sitting loaded the legs during extension more than flexion, whereas air-stepping and air-stepping with ankle weights did the opposite. Video, electrogoniometry, surface electromyography, and contact forces were recorded. We showed that load-related feedback could make either the duration of flexion or extension longer. Within the tasks of stepping and kicking against a plate, infants who exerted lower forces showed shorter extensor durations than those who exerted higher forces. Because older babies tend to step with greater force, we wished to rule out the contribution of age. Eight babies (&gt;8 mo old) were studied during stepping, in which we manipulated the amount of weight-bearing. The same effect of load was seen. Hence, the degree of loading directly affects the duration of extension in an incremental way.
Weakness and atrophy are clinical signs that accompany muscle denervation resulting from motor neuron disease, peripheral neuropathies, and injury. Advances in our understanding of the genetics and molecular biology of these disorders have led to the development of therapeutic alternatives designed to slow denervation and promote reinnervation. Preclinical in vitro research gave rise to the need of a method for measuring the effects in animal models. Our goal was to develop an efficient method to determine the number of motor neurons making functional connections to muscle in a transgenic mouse model of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). We developed a novel protocol for motor unit number estimation (MUNE) using incremental stimulation. The method involves analysis of twitch waveforms using a new software program, ITS-MUNE, designed for interactive calculation of motor unit number. The method was validated by testing simulated twitch data from a mathematical model of the neuromuscular system. Computer simulations followed the same stimulus-response protocol and produced waveform data that were indistinguishable from experiments. We show that our MUNE protocol is valid, with high precision and small bias across a wide range of motor unit numbers. The method is especially useful for large muscle groups where MUNE could not be done using manual methods. The results are reproducible across nave and expert analysts, making it suitable for easy implementation. The ITS-MUNE analysis method has the potential to quantitatively measure the progression of motor neuron diseases and therefore the efficacy of treatments designed to alleviate pathologic processes of muscle denervation.
One fundamental process of the auditory system is to process rapidly occurring acoustic stimuli, which are fundamental components of complex stimuli such as animal vocalizations and human speech. Although the auditory cortex is known to subserve the perception of acoustic temporal events, relatively little is currently understood about how single neurons respond to such stimuli. We recorded the responses of single neurons in the primary auditory cortex of alert monkeys performing an auditory task. The stimuli consisted of four tone pips with equal duration and interpip interval, with the first and last pip of the sequence being near the characteristic frequency of the neuron under study. We manipulated the rate of presentation, the frequency of the middle two tone pips, and the order by which they were presented. Our results indicate that single cortical neurons are ineffective at responding to the individual tone pips of the sequence for pip durations of &lt;12 ms, but did begin to respond synchronously to each pip of the sequence at 18-ms durations. In addition, roughly 40% of the neurons tested were able to discriminate the order that the two middle tone pips were presented in at durations of &gt; or =24 ms. These data place the primate primary auditory cortex at an early processing stage of temporal rate discrimination.
Communication is one of the fundamental components of both human and nonhuman animal behavior. Auditory communication signals (i.e., vocalizations) are especially important in the socioecology of several species of nonhuman primates such as rhesus monkeys. In rhesus, the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (vPFC) is thought to be part of a circuit involved in representing vocalizations and other auditory objects. To further our understanding of the role of the vPFC in processing vocalizations, we characterized the spectrotemporal features of rhesus vocalizations, compared these features with other classes of natural stimuli, and then related the rhesus-vocalization acoustic features to neural activity. We found that the range of these spectrotemporal features was similar to that found in other ensembles of natural stimuli, including human speech, and identified the subspace of these features that would be particularly informative to discriminate between different vocalizations. In a first neural study, however, we found that the tuning properties of vPFC neurons did not emphasize these particularly informative spectrotemporal features. In a second neural study, we found that a first-order linear model (the spectrotemporal receptive field) is not a good predictor of vPFC activity. The results of these two neural studies are consistent with the hypothesis that the vPFC is not involved in coding the first-order acoustic properties of a stimulus but is involved in processing the higher-order information needed to form representations of auditory objects.
Eye patching has revealed enhanced saccadic latencies or attention effects when orienting toward visual stimuli presented in the temporal versus nasal hemifields of humans. Such behavioral advantages have been tentatively proposed to reflect possible temporal-nasal differences in the retinotectal pathway to the superior colliculus, rather than in the retinogeniculate pathway or visual cortex. However, this has not been directly tested with physiological measures in humans. Here, we examined responses of the human superior colliculus (SC) to contralateral visual field stimulation, using high spatial resolution fMRI, while manipulating which hemifield was stimulated and orthogonally which eye was patched. The SC responded more strongly to visual stimulation when eye-patching made this stimulation temporal rather than nasal. In contrast, the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) plus retinotopic cortical areas V1-V3 did not show any temporal-nasal differences and differed from the SC in this respect. These results provide the first direct physiological demonstration in humans that SC shows temporal-nasal differences that LGN and early visual cortex apparently do not. This may represent a temporal hemifield bias in the strength of the retinotectal pathway, leading to a preference for the contralateral hemifield in the contralateral eye.
When observers initiate responses to visual targets, they do so sooner when a preceding stimulus indicates that the target will appear shortly. This consequence of a warning signal may change neural activity in one of four ways. On the sensory side, the warning signal may speed up the rate at which the target is registered by the brain or enhance the magnitude of its signal. On the motor end, the warning signal may lower the threshold required to initiate a response or speed up the rate at which activity accumulates to reach threshold. Here, we describe which explanation is better supported. To accomplish this end, monkeys performed different versions of a cue-target task while we monitored the activity of visuomotor and motor neurons in the superior colliculus. Although the cue target task was designed to measure the properties of reflexive spatial attention, there are two events in this task that produce nonspecific warning effects: a central reorienting event (brightening of central fixation marker) that is used to direct attention away from the cue, and the presentation of the cue itself. Monopolizing on these tendencies, we show that warning effects are associated with several changes in neural activity: the target-related response is enhanced, the threshold for initiating a saccade is lowered, and the rate at which activity accumulates toward threshold rises faster. Ultimately, the accumulation of activity toward threshold predicted behavior most closely. In the discussion, we describe the implications and limitations of these data for theories of warning effects and potential avenues for future research.
Since its introduction in the early 1980s, the concept of a &quot;preferred direction&quot; for neuronal discharge has proven to be a powerful means of studying motor areas of the brain. In the current paper, we introduce the concept of a &quot;muscle-space&quot;-preferred direction (PD(M)) that is analogous to the familiar hand-space-preferred direction (PD(H)). PD(M) reflects the similarity between the discharge of a given neuron and the activity of each muscle in much the way that PD(H) reflects the similarity of discharge with motion along each of the three Cartesian coordinate axes. We used PD(M) to analyze the data recorded from neurons in the primary motor cortex (M1) of three different monkeys. The monkeys performed center-out movements within two different cubical workspaces centered either to the left or right of the monkey's shoulder while we simultaneously recorded neuronal discharge, muscle activity, and limb orientation. We calculated preferred directions in both hand space and muscle space, and computed the angles between these vectors under a variety of conditions. PDs for different neurons were broadly distributed throughout both hand space and muscle space, but the muscle-space vectors appeared to form clusters of functionally similar neurons. In general, repeated estimates of PD(M) were more stable over time than were similar estimates of PD(H). Likewise, there was less change in PD(M) than in PD(H) for data recorded from the two different workspaces. However, although a majority of neurons had this muscle-like property, a significant minority was more stable in Cartesian hand space, reflecting a heterogeneity of function within M1.
The superior paraolivary nucleus (SPON) is a prominent periolivary cell group of the superior olivary complex. SPON neurons use gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) as their neurotransmitter and are contacted by large numbers of glycinergic and GABAergic punctate profiles, representing a dense inhibitory innervation from the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body (MNTB) and from collaterals of SPON axons, respectively. SPON neurons have low rates of spontaneous activity, respond preferentially to the offset of pure tones, and phase-lock to amplitude-modulated tones. To determine the roles of glycine and GABA in shaping SPON responses, we recorded from single units in the SPON of anesthetized rats before, during, and after application of the glycine receptor antagonist strychnine, the GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline, or both drugs applied simultaneously. Strychnine caused a major increase in spike counts during the stimulus presentation, followed by the disappearance of offset spikes. In half of the recorded units, bicuculline caused moderately increased firing during the stimulus. However, in 86% of units bicuculline also caused a large increase in the magnitude of the offset response. Application of the drug cocktail caused increased spontaneous activity, dramatically increased spike counts during the stimulus presentation, and eliminated the offset response in most units. We conclude that glycinergic inhibition from the MNTB suppresses SPON spiking during sound stimulation and is essential in generating offset responses. GABAergic inhibition, presumably from intrinsic SPON collaterals, plays a subtler role, contributing in some cells to suppression of firing during the stimulus and in most cells to restrict firing after stimulus offset.
Without intervention after spinal cord injury (SCI), paralyzed skeletal muscles undergo myofiber atrophy and slow-to-fast myofiber type transformations. We hypothesized that chronic spasticity-associated neuromuscular activity after SCI would promote recovery from such deleterious changes. We examined segmental tail muscles of chronic spinal rats with long-standing tail spasticity (7 mo after sacral spinal cord transection; older chronic spinals), chronic spinal rats that experienced less spasticity early after injury (young chronic spinals), and rats without spasticity after transection and bilateral deafferentation (spinal isolated). These were compared with tail muscles of age-matched normal rats. Using immunohistochemistry, we observed myofiber distributions of 15.9 +/- 3.5% type I, 18.7 +/- 10.7% type IIA, 60.8 +/- 12.6% type IID(X), and 2.3 +/- 1.3% type IIB (means +/- SD) in young normals, which were not different in older normals. Young chronic spinals demonstrated transformations toward faster myofiber types with decreased type I and increased type IID(X) paralleled by atrophy of all myofiber types compared with young normals. Spinal isolated rats also demonstrated decreased type I myofiber proportions and increased type II myofiber proportions, and severe myofiber atrophy. After 4 mo of complete spasticity (older chronic spinals), myofiber type transformations were reversed, with no significant differences in type I, IIA, IID(X), or IIB proportions compared with age-matched normals. Moreover, after this prolonged spasticity, type I, IIA, and IIB myofibers recovered from atrophy, and type IID(X) myofibers partially recovered. Our results indicate that early after transection or after long-term spinal isolation, relatively inactive tail myofibers atrophy and transform toward faster myofiber types. However, long-term spasticity apparently produces neuromuscular activity that promotes recovery of myofiber types and myofiber sizes.
We explored cortical fields on the upper bank of the Sylvian fissure using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and magnetoencephalography (MEG) to measure responses to two stimulus conditions: a tactile stimulus applied to the right hand and a tactile stimulus with an additional movement component. fMRI data revealed bilateral activation in S2/PV in response to tactile stimulation alone and source localization of MEG data identified a peak latency of 122 ms in a similar location. During the tactile and movement condition, fMRI revealed bilateral activation of S2/PV and an anterior field, while MEG data contained one source at a location identical to the tactile-only condition with a latency of 96 ms and a second rostral source with a longer latency (136 ms). Furthermore, Region-of-interest analysis of fMRI data identified increased bilateral activation in S2/PV and the rostral area in the tactile and movement condition compared with the tactile only condition. An area of cortex immediately rostral to S2/PV in monkeys has been called the parietal rostroventral area (PR). Based on location, latency, and conditions under which this field was active, we have termed the rostral area of human cortex PR as well. These findings indicate that humans, like non-human primates, have a cortical field rostral to PV that processes proprioceptive inputs, both S2/PV and PR play a role in somatomotor integration necessary for manual exploration and object discrimination, and there is a temporal hierarchy of processing with S2/PV active prior to PR.
When deciding between different options, individuals are guided by the expected (mean) value of the different outcomes and by the associated degrees of uncertainty. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to identify brain activations coding the key decision parameters of expected value (magnitude and probability) separately from uncertainty (statistical variance) of monetary rewards. Participants discriminated behaviorally between stimuli associated with different expected values and uncertainty. Stimuli associated with higher expected values elicited monotonically increasing activations in distinct regions of the striatum, irrespective of different combinations of magnitude and probability. Stimuli associated with higher uncertainty (variance) elicited increasing activations in the lateral orbitofrontal cortex. Uncertainty-related activations covaried with individual risk aversion in lateral orbitofrontal regions and risk-seeking in more medial areas. Furthermore, activations in expected value-coding regions in prefrontal cortex covaried differentially with uncertainty depending on risk attitudes of individual participants, suggesting that separate prefrontal regions are involved in risk aversion and seeking. These data demonstrate the distinct coding in key reward structures of the two basic and crucial decision parameters, expected value, and uncertainty.
Although chronic treatment with morphine is known to alter the function and morphology of excitatory synapses, the effects of other opioids on these synapses are not clear. Here we report distinct effects of several opioids (morphine, [d-ala(2),me-phe(4),gly(5)-ol]enkephalin (DAMGO), and etorphine) on miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs) in cultured hippocampal neurons: 1) chronic treatment with morphine for &gt;3 days decreased the amplitude, frequency, rise time and decay time of mEPSCs. In contrast, &quot;internalizing&quot; opioids such as etorphine and DAMGO increased the frequency of mEPSCs and had no significant effect on the amplitude and kinetics of mEPSCs. These results demonstrate that different opioids can have distinct effects on the function of excitatory synapses. 2) mu opioid receptor fused with green fluorescence protein (MOR-GFP) is clustered in dendritic spines in most hippocampal neurons but is concentrated in axon-like processes in striatal and corticostriatal nonspiny neurons. It suggests that MORs might mediate pre- or postsynaptic effects depending on cell types. 3) Neurons were cultured from MOR knock-out mice and were exogenously transfected with MOR-GFP. Chronic treatment with morphine suppressed mEPSCs only in neurons that contained postsynaptic MOR-GFP, indicating that opioids can modulate excitatory synaptic transmission postsynaptically. 4) Morphine acutely decreased mEPSC amplitude in neurons expressing exogenous MOR-GFP but had no effect on neurons expressing GFP. It indicates that the low level of endogenous MORs could only allow slow opioid-induced plasticity of excitatory synapses under normal conditions. 5) A theoretical model suggests that morphine might affect the function of spines by decreasing the electrotonic distance from synaptic inputs to the soma.
We compared single-cell activities in perirhinal cortex (PRh) as well as adjacent visual cortex (area TE) across two tasks. One task required the monkey to identify any stimulus repetition within a sequence of object stimuli. In the other task, the same stimuli were presented, but the monkey didn't have to remember them. PRh responses during the object-memory task were elevated relative to those during the second task. In TE, on the other hand, there were no significant task-related differences in responses. We did not observe task-related differences related to repetition effects in either brain area. The onset of the enhanced signal in PRh during the object-memory task occurred with a latency of 80 ms after the onset of the stimulus response, suggesting that it was the result of top-down feedback.
With each eye movement, stationary objects in the world change position on the retina, yet we perceive the world as stable. Spatial updating, or remapping, is one neural mechanism by which the brain compensates for shifts in the retinal image caused by voluntary eye movements. Remapping of a visual representation is believed to arise from a widespread neural circuit including parietal and frontal cortex. The current experiment tests the hypothesis that extrastriate visual areas in human cortex have access to remapped spatial information. We tested this hypothesis using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). We first identified the borders of several occipital lobe visual areas using standard retinotopic techniques. We then tested subjects while they performed a single-step saccade task analogous to the task used in neurophysiological studies in monkeys, and two conditions that control for visual and motor effects. We analyzed the fMRI time series data with a nonlinear, fully Bayesian hierarchical statistical model. We identified remapping as activity in the single-step task that could not be attributed to purely visual or oculomotor effects. The strength of remapping was roughly monotonic with position in the visual hierarchy: remapped responses were largest in areas V3A and hV4 and smallest in V1 and V2. These results demonstrate that updated visual representations are present in cortical areas that are directly linked to visual perception.
Prehension responses of 76 neurons in primary somatosensory (S-I) and motor (M-I) cortices were analyzed in three macaques during performance of a grasp and lift task. Digital video recordings of hand kinematics synchronized to neuronal spike trains were compared with responses in posterior parietal areas 5 and AIP/7b (PPC) of the same monkeys during seven task stages: 1) approach, 2) contact, 3) grasp, 4) lift, 5) hold, 6) lower, and 7) relax. S-I and M-I firing patterns signaled particular hand actions, rather than overall task goals. S-I responses were more diverse than those in PPC, occurred later in time, and focused primarily on grasping. Sixty-three percent of S-I neurons fired at peak rates during contact and/or grasping. Lift, hold, and lowering excited fewer S-I cells. Only 8% of S-I cells fired at peak rates before contact, compared with 27% in PPC. M-I responses were also diverse, forming functional groups for hand preshaping, object acquisition, and grip force application. M-I activity began &lt; or =500 ms before contact, coinciding with the earliest activity in PPC. Activation of specific muscle groups in the hand was paralleled by matching patterns of somatosensory feedback from S-I needed for efficient performance. These findings support hypotheses that predictive and planning components of prehension are represented in PPC and premotor cortex, whereas performance and feedback circuits dominate activity in M-I and S-I. Somatosensory feedback from the hand to S-I enables real-time adjustments of grasping by connections to M-I and updates future prehension plans through projections to PPC.
It is controversial whether simple-spike activity of cerebellar Purkinje cells during arm movements encodes movement kinematics like velocity or dynamics like muscle activities. To examine this issue, we trained monkeys to flex or extend the elbow by 45 degrees in 400 ms under resistive and assistive force fields but without altering kinematics. During the task movements after training, simple-spike discharges were recorded in the intermediate part of the cerebellum in lobules V-VI, and electromyographic activity was recorded from arm muscles. Velocity profiles (kinematics) in the two force fields were almost identical to each other, whereas not only the electromyographic activities (dynamics) but also simple-spike activities in many Purkinje cells differed distinctly depending on the type of force field. Simple-spike activities encoded much larger mutual information with the type of force field than that with the residual small difference in the height of peak velocity. The difference in simple-spike activities averaged over the recorded Purkinje-cells increased approximately 40 ms before the appearance of the difference in electromyographic activities between the two force fields, suggesting that the difference of simple-spike activities could be the origin of the difference of muscle activities. Simple-spike activity of many Purkinje cells correlated with electromyographic activity with a lead of approximately 80 ms, and these neurons had little overlap with another group of neurons the simple-spike activity of which correlated with velocity profiles. These results show that simple-spike activity of at least a group of Purkinje cells in the intermediate part of cerebellar lobules V-VI encodes movement dynamics.
When presented with simple stimuli like bars and gratings, adjacent neurons in striate cortex exhibit shared selectivity for multiple stimulus dimensions, such as orientation, direction, and spatial frequency. This has led to the idea that local averaging of neuronal responses provides a more reliable representation of stimulus properties. However, when stimulated with complex, time-varying natural scenes (i.e., movies), striate neurons exhibit highly sparse responses. This raises the question of how much response heterogeneity the local population exhibits when stimulated with movies, and how it varies with separation distance between cells. We investigated this question by simultaneously recording the responses of groups of neurons in cat striate cortex to the repeated presentation of movies using silicon probes in a multi-tetrode configuration. We found, first, that the responses of striate neurons to movies are brief (tens of milliseconds), decorrelated, and exhibit high population sparseness. Second, we found that adjacent neurons differed significantly in their peak firing rates even when they responded to the same frames of a movie. Third, pairs of adjacent neurons recorded on the same tetrodes exhibited as much heterogeneity in their responses as pairs recorded by different tetrodes. These findings demonstrate that complex natural scenes evoke highly heterogeneous responses within local populations, suggesting that response redundancy in a cortical column is substantially lower than previously thought.
In the months after spinal cord transection, motoneurons in the rat spinal cord develop large persistent inward currents (PICs) that are responsible for muscle spasticity. These PICs are mediated by low-threshold TTX-sensitive sodium currents (Na PIC) and L-type calcium currents (Ca PIC). Recently, the Na PIC was shown to become supersensitive to serotonin (5-HT) after chronic injury. In the present paper, a similar change in the sensitivity of the Ca PIC to 5-HT was investigated after injury. The whole sacrocaudal spinal cord from acute spinal rats and spastic chronic spinal rats (S2 level transection 2 mo previously) was studied in vitro. Intracellular recordings were made from motoneurons and slow voltages ramps were applied to measure PICs. TTX was used to block the Na PIC. For motoneurons of chronic spinal rats, a low dose of 5-HT (1 microM) significantly lowered the threshold of the Ca PIC from -56.7 +/- 6.0 to -63.1 +/- 7.1 mV and increased the amplitude of the Ca PIC from 2.4 +/- 1.0 to 3.0 +/- 0.73 nA. Higher doses of 5-HT acted similarly. For motoneurons of acute spinal rats, low doses of 5-HT had no significant effects, whereas a high dose (about 30 microM) significantly lowered the threshold of the L-Ca PIC from -58.5 +/- 14.8 to -62.5 +/- 3.6 mV and increased the amplitude of the Ca PIC from 0.69 +/- 1.05 to 1.27 +/- 1.1 nA. Thus Ca PICs in motoneurons are about 30-fold supersensitive to 5-HT in chronic spinal rats. The 5-HT-induced facilitation of the Ca PIC was blocked by nimodipine, not by the I(h) current blocker Cs(+) (3 mM) or the SK current blocker apamin (0.15 microM), and it lasted for hours after the removal of 5-HT from the nCSF, even increasing initially after removing 5-HT. The effects of 5-HT make motoneurons more excitable and ultimately lead to larger, more easily activated plateaus and self-sustained firing. The supersensitivity to 5-HT suggests the small amounts of endogenous 5-HT below the injury in a chronic spinal rat may act on supersensitive receptors to produce large Ca PICs and ultimately enable muscle spasms.
Two kinds of sodium current (I(Na)) have been separately reported in hair cells of the immature rodent utricle, a vestibular organ. We show that rat utricular hair cells express one or the other current depending on age (between postnatal days 0 and 22, P0-P22), hair cell type (I, II, or immature), and epithelial zone (striola vs. extrastriola). The properties of these two currents, or a mix, can account for descriptions of I(Na) in hair cells from other reports. The patterns of Na channel expression during development suggest a role in establishing the distinct synapses of vestibular hair cells of different type and epithelial zone. All type I hair cells expressed I(Na,1), a TTX-insensitive current with a very negative voltage range of inactivation (midpoint: -94 mV). I(Na,2) was TTX sensitive and had less negative voltage ranges of activation and inactivation (inactivation midpoint: -72 mV). I(Na,1) dominated in the striola at all ages, but current density fell by two-thirds after the first postnatal week. I(Na,2) was expressed by 60% of hair cells in the extrastriola in the first week, then disappeared. In the third week, all type I cells and about half of type II cells had I(Na,1); the remaining cells lacked sodium current. I(Na,1) is probably carried by Na(V)1.5 subunits based on biophysical and pharmacological properties, mRNA expression, and immunoreactivity. Na(V)1.5 was also localized to calyx endings on type I hair cells. Several TTX-sensitive subunits are candidates for I(Na,2).
Neuronal coupling between the arms and legs allowing coordinated rhythmic movement during locomotion is poorly understood. We used the modulation of cutaneous reflexes to probe this neuronal coupling between the arms and legs using a cycling paradigm. Participants performed rhythmic cycling with arms, legs, or arms and legs together. We hypothesized that any contributions from the arms would be functionally linked to locomotion and would thus be phase-dependent. Reflexes were evoked by electrical stimulation of the superficial peroneal nerve at the ankle, and electromyography (EMG) was recorded from muscles in the arms and legs. The main finding was that the relative contribution from the arms and legs was linked to the functional state of the legs. For example, in tibialis anterior, the largest contribution from arm movement [57% variance accounted for (VAF), P &lt; 0.05] was during the leg power phase, whereas the largest from leg movement (71% VAF, P &lt; 0.05) was during leg cycling recovery. Thus the contribution from the arms was functionally gated throughout the locomotor cycle in a manner that appears to support the action of the legs. Additionally, the effect of arm cycling on reflexes in leg muscles when the legs were not moving was relatively minor; full expression of the effect of rhythmic arm movement was only observed when both the arms and legs were moving. Our findings provide experimental support for the interaction of rhythmic arm and leg movement during human locomotion.
Thyroid storm is a life-threatening complication of thyroid dysfunction that is manifested by signs of cardiac arrhythmias, fever, and neurological impairment. These symptoms can easily be attributed to a multitude of factors commonly seen in neurological intensive care units, making the recognition and diagnosis of this event difficult. In this case study, a patient presents with a complicated course of hospitalization exacerbated by thyroid storm. Early nursing care and medical collaboration offset a potentially fatal condition.
Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is the most common primary malignant brain tumor. Spinal metastasis is rare. However, as local control of the primary tumor improves, metastatic disease is increasingly possible. The neuroscience nurse plays an instrumental role in caring for patients with GBM, developing a plan of care based on each patient's needs and outcomes.
Water-deprivation-induced osmotic stress leads to activation of a number of adaptive responses. Nitric oxide (NO) has been implicated in the modulation of these responses, as the amygdala has been implicated in ingestive behavior and modulation of autonomic homeostatic functions. Here we investigated the effects of water deprivation on neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) expression within the rat amygdala; a brain area involved in modulating ingestive behavior and autonomic function. Water deprivation resulted in significant increases in nNOS immunoreactivity (-ir) within different regions of the amygdala compared with euhydrated rats. Maximal increases were observed in the anteroventral (118 +/- 9 vs. 47 +/- 3 neurons), anteriodorsal (133 +/- 9 vs. 77 +/- 3), and posterioventral (175 +/- 5 vs. 71 +/- 5) parts of the medial amygdala. The basomedial nucleus (65 +/- 4 vs. 39 +/- 3) and posterior basolateral nucleus (19 +/- 2 vs. 5 +/- 1) of the amygdala and the capsular (21 +/- 2 vs. 6 +/- 1) and medial (44 +/- 6 vs. 22 +/- 3) parts of the central nucleus of the amygdala also showed increased nNOS-ir in dehydrated rats. Water deprivation had no effect on nNOS-ir in areas such as the cortical, anterior basolateral, and intercalated nuclei of the amygdala. Microinjection of an NO donor, DEA-NONOate, into the central amygdala resulted in a pressor and tachycardic response that was attenuated by a soluble guanylate cyclase inhibitor. These observations suggest that activation of the nitrergic system is prevalent throughout the amygdala following water deprivation and suggest that the up-reguation of nNOS could play a significant role in the integrative response to osmotic stress.
Neurotrophic factors and steroid hormones have been shown to have neuroprotective/neurotherapeutic effects, and it has been shown previously that brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and testosterone have a combinatorial effect in the maintenance of motoneurons. Given that gonadal hormones regulate the BDNF receptor, tyrosine receptor kinase B (trkB), we hypothesized that such a regulatory effect could mediate the interactive effects of BDNF and testosterone. Using immunohistochemical methods, we examined the frequency of cells immunolabeled for trkB receptors in two populations of spinal motoneurons, the hormone-sensitive, sexually dimorphic motoneurons of the spinal nucleus of the bulbocavernosus (SNB) and the nondimorphic motoneurons innervating the muscles of the quadriceps. In both the highly androgen-sensitive SNB motoneurons and the more typical somatic motoneurons innervating the quadriceps, the frequency of motoneurons intensely immunolabeled for trkB receptors was regulated by the presence of testosterone. Castrated animals deprived of testosterone showed a reduced frequency of intensely labeled motoneurons compared with intact animals or castrated animals given testosterone replacement. This finding suggests that the combinatorial effect of BDNF and testosterone in the maintenance of motoneurons could occur at least in part through an androgen-mediated expression of the BDNF receptor.
Peripheral myelin protein 22 (PMP22) is a tetraspan glycoprotein whose misexpression is associated with a family of hereditary peripheral neuropathies. In a recent report, we have characterized a novel PMP22-deficient mouse model in which the first two coding exons were replaced by the lacZ reporter. To investigate further the myelin abnormalities in the absence of PMP22, sciatic nerves and dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neuron explant cultures from PMP22-deficient mice were studied at various stages of myelination. Throughout the first 3 months of postnatal development, myelin protein and beta4 integrin levels are dramatically reduced, whereas p75 and beta1 integrin remain elevated. By immunostaining, the distributions of several glial proteins, including beta4 integrin, the voltage-gated potassium channel Kv1.1, and E-cadherin, are altered. Schwann cells from PMP22-deficient mice are able to produce limited amounts of myelin in DRG explant cultures, yet the internodal segments are dramatically fewer and shorter. The comparison of PMP22-deficient mice with other PMP22 mutant models reveals that the decrease in beta4 integrin is specific to an absence of PMP22. Furthermore, whereas lysosome-associated membrane protein 1 and ubiquitin are notably up-regulated in nerves of PMP22-deficient mice, heat shock protein 70 levels remain constant or decrease compared with wild-type or PMP22 mutant samples. Together these results support a role for PMP22 in the early events of peripheral nerve myelination. Additionally, although myelin abnormalities are a commonality among PMP22 neuropathic models, the underlying subcellular mechanisms are distinct and depend on the specific genetic abnormality.

Basal encephaloceles account for only 1.5% of all encephaloceles. Within this group, the sphenorbital type is quite rare but causes herniation of the brain into the orbit, leading to pulsatile exophthalmos and disturbance of visual acuity. The authors present a case of successful orbitocranioplasty for a sphenorbital encephalocele in which they used a skull model in preparation for the operation. A plaster skull model was made from 3D computed tomography (CT) data obtained in a 6-year-old girl with a sphenorbital encephalocele to determine the appropriate size and shape of an implant for repair of the malformation. A hydroxyapatite ceramic implant with high affinity to autologous bone was designed to cover the defect and simultaneously to enlarge the volume of the orbit as well as allow rigid fixation. Postoperative 3D CT scanning demonstrated good placement of the implant, and the patient's pulsatile exophthalmos diminished immediately. The patient's postoperative condition has been good, and she has exhibited no neurological deficit or deformity of the skull around the cranioplasty 30 months after the operation. A skull model using 3D CT data is useful for determining the most appropriate strategy for reconstruction. Hydroxyapatite ceramic implants have high affinity to autologous bone and thus are suitable for children. In cases such as the present one, however, the patient should be observed carefully to ensure that there is not an imbalance between the implant and the still growing autologous skull.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) is associated with immune deficiencies and life-threatening infections. However, the specific mechanisms underlying this pathological condition remain unclear. In recent years, increasing evidence has suggested that anabolic hormones may be involved in immunological complications. Here, we monitored candidate hormone concentrations and immune cell counts, in CD1 mice, for 4 weeks after low-thoracic transection of the spinal cord (Tx). Serum dihydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), insulin, and parathyroid hormone (PTH) levels decreased throughout the time period studied compared with control, non-Tx mice. In turn, testosterone and growth hormone (GH) levels were only transiently changed, with a decrease of testosterone during the first 2 weeks and an increase of GH at 1 week post-Tx. A complete blood count revealed either unchanged or moderately decreased erythrocyte, platelet, hemoglobin and hematocrit levels. Total leukocyte, lymphocyte, and eosinophil counts also decreased, whereas neutrophils and monocytes did not change significantly. In the bone marrow, lymphocyte numbers decreased and neutrophils increased, whereas monocytes, eosinophils, and megakariocytes did not change significantly. These results revealed significant changes occurring rapidly (&lt;1-2 weeks) after Tx in both hormonal and immunological systems, providing compelling evidence of a role for anabolic hormones in SCI-related immune deficiencies.
Cortical metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) seem to be involved in habituation of simple stimulus-bound behaviors (e.g., habituation to acoustic startle or odor-elicited orienting response). Habituation deficits may contribute to the cognitive symptoms of schizophrenia. In the present study, male NMRI mice were injected with mGluR2/3 antagonist 2S-2-amino-2-(1S,2S-2-carboxycyclopropyl-1-yl)-3-(xanth-9-yl)propanoic acid (LY-341495) 30 min before being placed into novel arenas for automatic motor activity recording (2-h sessions). Administration of LY-341495 (1-10 mg/kg s.c.) dose-dependently prevented the habituation of the locomotor activity. Effects of LY-341495 (10 mg/kg) were fully and dose-dependently reversed by i.p. administration of haloperidol (0.03-0.3 mg/kg), clozapine (1-10 mg/kg), risperidone (0.01-0.1 mg/kg), olanzapine (0.3-3 mg/kg), aripiprazole (1-10 mg/kg), and sulpiride (3-30 mg/kg), each of which was given 15 min before the test. Effects of antipsychotic drugs were observed at the dose levels that did not affect spontaneous motor activity. LY-341495-induced delayed hyperactivity was also partially attenuated by lithium (50-200 mg/kg), amisulpride (1-10 mg/kg), and the selective dopamine D3 antagonist trans-N-[4-[2-(6-cyano-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinolin-2-yl)ethyl]cyclohexyl]-4-quinolinecarboxamide (SB-277011A; 3-30 mg/kg). Application of diazepam, imipramine, or several agonists and/or antagonists acting at various receptors that are thought to be relevant for antipsychotic treatment [e.g., 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)(2A), 5-HT(3), and 5-HT(6) antagonists; 5-HT(1A) agonist; D4 antagonist; CB1 antagonist; ampakines; and glycine transporter inhibitor) had no appreciable effects. Thus, behavioral deficits induced by mGluR2/3 blockade (such as delayed motor hyperactivity) are selectively reversed by clinically used antipsychotic drugs.
There is a substantial body of evidence indicating that beta-amyloid peptides (Abeta) are critical factors in the onset and development of Alzheimer's disease (AD). One strategy for combating AD is to reduce or eliminate the production of Abeta through inhibition of the gamma-secretase enzyme, which cleaves Abeta from the amyloid precursor protein (APP). We demonstrate here that chronic treatment for 3 months with 3 mg/kg of the potent, orally bioavailable and brain-penetrant gamma-secretase inhibitor N-[cis-4-[(4-chlorophenyl)-sulfonyl]-4-(2,5-difluorophenyl)cyclohexyl]-1,1,1-trifluoromethanesulfonamide (MRK-560) attenuates the appearance of amyloid plaques in the Tg2576 mouse. These reductions in plaques were also accompanied by a decrease in the level of reactive gliosis. The morphometric and histological measures agreed with biochemical analysis of Abeta(40) and Abeta(42) in the cortex. Interestingly, the volume of the plaques across treatment groups did not change, indicating that reducing Abeta levels does not significantly alter deposit growth once initiated. Furthermore, we demonstrate that these beneficial effects can be achieved without causing histopathological changes in the ileum, spleen, or thymus as a consequence of blockade of the processing of alternative substrates, such as the Notch family of receptors. This indicates that in vivo a therapeutic window between these substrates seems possible--a key concern in the development of this approach to AD. An understanding of the mechanisms whereby MRK-560 shows differentiation between the APP and Notch proteolytic pathway of gamma-secretase should provide the basis for the next generation of gamma-secretase inhibitors.
Global protein analysis of treated and untreated glioblastoma cell lines was performed. Proteomic analysis revealed the identity of proteins that were significantly modulated by the treatment with wild-type TP53 and the cytotoxic chemotherapy SN38. In particular, galectin-1 was found to be negatively regulated by transfection with TP53 and further down-regulated by SN38. Expression level changes were confirmed by Western blot. Subsequent analysis of several high-grade glioma cell lines demonstrated very high levels of galectin-1, regardless if the cell lines contained mutant or wild-type TP53. High expression of galectin-1 in a human orthotopic murine tumor model was also detected by immunohistochemistry and revealed a consistent pattern of preferential expression in peripheral or leading tumor edges. Further examination of galectin-1 expression through microarray analysis in tumor materials from patients confirmed galectin-1 as a valuable biomarker and possible therapeutic target. These results demonstrate the utility of using proteomic approaches to interrogate and identify potential useful targets for cancer therapy by evaluating specific tumor responses, either positive or negative, to various therapies.


A study of bulimic women examined the relationship between histories of childhood trauma and psychiatric disorders, as well as daily measures of mood and behavior. One hundred twenty-three women with bulimia nervosa were assessed with interviews and completed an Ecological Momentary Assessment (EMA) protocol in which they carried a palmtop computer for 2 weeks. Sexual abuse was associated with a history of mood and anxiety disorders, and emotional abuse with eating disorder psychopathology. In the EMA assessment, sexual abuse was associated with daily purging frequency and self-destructive behavior. Emotional abuse was associated with average daily mood and mood lability. These findings support the idea that child maltreatment may be associated with various aspects of bulimia-related psychopathology.

Magnetic resonance spectroscopic imaging (MRSI) provides spatially resolved metabolite information that is invaluable for both neuroscience studies and clinical applications. However, lengthy data acquisition times, which are a result of time-consuming phase encoding, represent a major challenge for MRSI. Fast MRSI pulse sequences that use echo-planar readout gradients, such as proton echo-planar spectroscopic imaging (PEPSI), are capable of fast spectral-spatial encoding and thus enable acceleration of image acquisition times. Combining PEPSI with recent advances in parallel MRI utilizing RF coil arrays can further accelerate MRSI data acquisition. Here we investigate the feasibility of ultrafast spectroscopic imaging at high field (3T and 4T) by combining PEPSI with sensitivity-encoded (SENSE) MRI using eight-channel head coil arrays. We show that the acquisition of single-average SENSE-PEPSI data at a short TE (15 ms) can be accelerated to 32 s or less, depending on the field strength, to obtain metabolic images of choline (Cho), creatine (Cre), N-acetyl-aspartate (NAA), and J-coupled metabolites (e.g., glutamate (Glu) and inositol (Ino)) with acceptable spectral quality and localization. The experimentally measured reductions in signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) and Cramer-Rao lower bounds (CRLBs) of metabolite resonances were well explained by both the g-factor and reduced measurement times. Thus, this technology is a promising means of reducing the scan times of 3D acquisitions and time-resolved 2D measurements.
We describe an approach for determining causal connections among nodes of a probabilistic network even when many nodes remain unobservable. The unobservable nodes introduce ambiguity into the estimate of the causal structure. However, in some experimental contexts, such as those commonly used in neuroscience, this ambiguity is present even without unobservable nodes. The analysis is presented in terms of a point process model of a neuronal network, though the approach can be generalized to other contexts. The analysis depends on the existence of a model that captures the relationship between nodal activity and a set of measurable external variables. The mathematical framework is sufficiently general to allow a large class of such models. The results are modestly robust to deviations from model assumptions, though additional validation methods are needed to assess the success of the results.

PMCA2, a major calcium pump, is expressed at particularly high levels in Purkinje neurons. Accordingly, PMCA2-null mice exhibit ataxia suggesting cerebellar pathology. It is not yet known how changes in PMCA2 expression or activity affect molecular pathways in Purkinje neurons. We now report that the levels of metabotropic glutamate receptor 1 (mGluR1), which plays essential roles in motor coordination, synaptic plasticity, and associative learning, are reduced in the cerebellum of PMCA2-null mice as compared to wild type littermates. The levels of inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate receptor type 1 (IP3R1), an effector downstream to mGluR1, which mediates intracellular calcium signaling, and the expression of Homer 1b/c and Homer 3, scaffold proteins that couple mGluR1 to IP3R1, are also reduced in somata and dendrites of some Purkinje cell subpopulations. In contrast, no alterations occur in the levels of mGluR1 and its downstream effectors in the hippocampus, indicating that the changes are region specific. The reduction in cerebellar mGluR1, IP3R1 and Homer 3 levels are neither due to a generic decrease in Purkinje proteins nor extensive dendritic loss as immunoreactivity to total and non-phosphorylated neurofilament H (NFH) is increased in Purkinje dendrites and microtubule associated protein 2 (MAP2) staining reveals a dense dendritic network in the molecular layer of the PMCA2-null mouse cerebellum. PMCA2 coimmunoprecipitates with mGluR1, Homer 3 and IP3R1, suggesting that the calcium pump is a constituent of the mGluR1 signaling complex. Our results suggest that the decrease in the expression of mGluR1 and its downstream effectors and perturbations in the mGluR1 signaling complex in the absence of PMCA2 may cumulatively result in aberrant metabotropic glutamate receptor signaling in Purkinje neurons leading to cerebellar deficits in the PMCA2-null mouse.
Human eosinophils can mediate both beneficial and detrimental responses in parasitic and allergic diseases. Binding of aggregated immunoglobulin to Fc receptors on eosinophils mediates important defence processes, including generation of activated oxygen species resulting from NADPH oxidase activation, and eosinophil peroxidase release following degranulation. The abilities of a matched set of IgA, IgG and IgE antibodies to elicit such responses in blood-derived eosinophils were compared using a chemiluminescence assay. IgA and IgG, but not IgE, were found to trigger NADPH oxidase activation and degranulation in eosinophils. This non-responsiveness to IgE did not result from receptor blockade by endogenous IgE since no blood-derived IgE was detectable on freshly isolated eosinophils. Moreover, while cross-linking of FcalphaRI by specific mAbs triggered NADPH oxidase activation and degranulation in blood-derived eosinophils, equivalent cross-linking of FcvarepsilonRI or FcvarepsilonRII did not elicit such responses. Therefore IgA is more potent at eliciting activated oxygen species release and degranulation in eosinophils than IgE, suggesting that the importance of IgA in eosinophil activation in immune defence and allergy may have been underestimated.
The complement system provides an innate defence mechanism against pathogenic microorganisms. Although viewed for many years as an immune-privileged organ, the central nervous system contains many components of the immune system, including components of the complement system that are synthesized by astrocytes, microglia, and neurons. During the past two decades, a wide range of inflammatory markers, typically absent in the normal elderly population, have been reported in Alzheimer's disease brains. It is becoming evident that sustained brain inflammation might be an essential cofactor in Alzheimer disease and other neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson disease, dementia with Lewy bodies, Huntington's and prion diseases. The complement system may be useful in eliminating aggregated and toxic proteins associated with these neurological disorders and thus have a protective effect. However, an exaggerated or insufficient activation of the complement system can have deleterious effect through the activation of microglia, secretion of many proinflammatory cytokines, and generation of oxidative products. The role of complement-mediated inflammation in Alzheimer disease has drawn greater attention recently in view of new therapeutic advances made in the management of the disease. This review is meant to update the role of complement in Alzheimer's disease and other neurodegenerative disorders in view of recent vaccination and immunotherapeutic approaches.
Transport defects may arise in various neurodegenerative diseases from failures in molecular motors, microtubule abnormalities, and the chaperone/proteasomal degradation pathway leading to aggresomal-lysosomal accumulations. These defects represent important steps in the neurodegenerative cascade, although in many cases, a clear consensus has yet to be reached regarding their causal relationship to the disease. A growing body of evidence lends support to a link between neurite transport defects in the very early stages of many neurodegenerative diseases and alterations in the organization and dynamics of the actin cytoskeleton initiated by filament dynamizing proteins in the ADF/cofilin family. This article focuses on cofilin, which in neurons under stress, including stress induced by the amyloid-beta (Abeta) 1-42 peptide, undergoes dephosphorylation (activation) and forms rod-shaped actin bundles (rods). Rods inhibit transport, are sites of amyloid precursor protein accumulation, and contribute to the pathology of Alzheimer's disease. Because rods form rapidly in response to anoxia, they could also contribute to synaptic deficits associated with ischemic brain injury (e.g., stroke). Surprisingly, cofilin undergoes phosphorylation (inactivation) in hippocampal neurons treated with Abeta1-40 at high concentrations, and these neurons undergo dystrophic morphological changes, including accumulation of pretangle phosphorylated-tau. Therefore, extremes in phosphoregulation of cofilin by different forms of Abeta may explain much of the Alzheimer's disease pathology and provide mechanisms for synaptic loss and plaque expansion.
Excessive fear and anxiety are hallmarks of a variety of disabling anxiety disorders that affect millions of people throughout the world. Hence, a greater understanding of the brain mechanisms involved in the inhibition of fear and anxiety is attracting increasing interest in the research community. In the laboratory, fear inhibition most often is studied through a procedure in which a previously fear conditioned organism is exposed to a fear-eliciting cue in the absence of any aversive event. This procedure results in a decline in conditioned fear responses that is attributed to a process called fear extinction. Extensive empirical work by behavioral psychologists has revealed basic behavioral characteristics of extinction, and theoretical accounts have emphasized extinction as a form of inhibitory learning as opposed to an erasure of acquired fear. Guided by this work, neuroscientists have begun to dissect the neural mechanisms involved, including the regions in which extinction-related plasticity occurs and the cellular and molecular processes that are engaged. The present paper will cover behavioral, theoretical and neurobiological work, and will conclude with a discussion of clinical implications.
The significant proportion of depressed patients that are resistant to monoaminergic drug therapy and the slow onset of therapeutic effects of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs)/serotonin/noradrenaline reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) are two major reasons for the sustained search for new antidepressants. In an attempt to identify common underlying mechanisms for fast- and slow-acting antidepressant modalities, we have examined the transcriptional changes in seven different brain regions of the rat brain induced by three clinically effective antidepressant treatments: electro convulsive therapy (ECT), sleep deprivation (SD), and fluoxetine (FLX), the most commonly used slow-onset antidepressant. Each of these antidepressant treatments was applied with the same regimen known to have clinical efficacy: 2 days of ECT (four sessions per day), 24 h of SD, and 14 days of daily treatment of FLX, respectively. Transcriptional changes were evaluated on RNA extracted from seven different brain regions using the Affymetrix rat genome microarray 230 2.0. The gene chip data were validated using in situ hybridization or autoradiography for selected genes. The major findings of the study are: 1. The transcriptional changes induced by SD, ECT and SSRI display a regionally specific distribution distinct to each treatment. 2. The fast-onset, short-lived antidepressant treatments ECT and SD evoked transcriptional changes primarily in the catecholaminergic system, whereas the slow-onset antidepressant FLX treatment evoked transcriptional changes in the serotonergic system. 3. ECT and SD affect in a similar manner the same brain regions, primarily the locus coeruleus, whereas the effects of FLX were primarily in the dorsal raphe and hypothalamus, suggesting that both different regions and pathways account for fast onset but short lasting effects as compared to slow-onset but long-lasting effects. However, the similarity between effects of ECT and SD is somewhat confounded by the fact that the two treatments appear to regulate a number of transcripts in an opposite manner. 4. Multiple transcripts (e.g. brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), serum/glucocorticoid-regulated kinase (Sgk1)), whose level was reported to be affected by antidepressants or behavioral manipulations, were also found to be regulated by the treatments used in the present study. Several novel findings of transcriptional regulation upon one, two or all three treatments were made, for the latter we highlight homer, erg2, HSP27, the proto oncogene ret, sulfotransferase family 1A (Sult1a1), glycerol 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GPD3), the orphan receptor G protein-coupled receptor 88 (GPR88) and a large number of expressed sequence tags (ESTs). 5. Transcripts encoding proteins involved in synaptic plasticity in the hippocampus were strongly affected by ECT and SD, but not by FLX. The novel transcripts, concomitantly regulated by several antidepressant treatments, may represent novel targets for fast onset, long-duration antidepressants.
Schizophrenia is increasingly recognized as a neurodevelopmental disease with an additional degenerative component, comprising cognitive decline and loss of cortical gray matter. We hypothesized that a neuroprotective/neurotrophic add-on strategy, recombinant human erythropoietin (rhEPO) in addition to stable antipsychotic medication, may be able to improve cognitive function even in chronic schizophrenic patients. Therefore, we designed a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized, multicenter, proof-of-principle (phase II) study. This study had a total duration of 2 years and an individual duration of 12 weeks with an additional safety visit at 16 weeks. Chronic schizophrenic men (N=39) with defined cognitive deficit (&gt;or=1 s.d. below normal in the Repeatable Battery for the Assessment of Neuropsychological Status (RBANS)), stable medication and disease state, were treated for 3 months with a weekly short (15 min) intravenous infusion of 40,000 IU rhEPO (N=20) or placebo (N=19). Main outcome measure was schizophrenia-relevant cognitive function at week 12. The neuropsychological test set (RBANS subtests delayed memory, language-semantic fluency, attention and Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST-64) - perseverative errors) was applied over 2 days at baseline, 2 weeks, 4 weeks and 12 weeks of study participation. Both placebo and rhEPO patients improved in all evaluated categories. Patients receiving rhEPO showed a significant improvement over placebo patients in schizophrenia-related cognitive performance (RBANS subtests, WCST-64), but no effects on psychopathology or social functioning. Also, a significant decline in serum levels of S100B, a glial damage marker, occurred upon rhEPO. The fact that rhEPO is the first compound to exert a selective and lasting beneficial effect on cognition should encourage new treatment strategies for schizophrenia.
Transthyretin amyloid neuropathy of type 1 (Swedish-Portuguese type) is an autosomally inherited progressive disease with a Val30Met mutation, causing generalized sensory-motor polyneuropathy. Quantitative sensory testing (QST) quantifies thermal threshold changes in patients with manifest general polyneuropathy, but its applicability at an early clinical stage of a strict biochemically defined disease has not yet been shown. Thermal QST was performed in 23 patients having a positive Val30Met marker and clinical symptoms of peripheral small-fiber neuropathy but normal electrophysiological findings and compared to a reference group of 43 healthy volunteers, both subdivided into age groups &lt; or =45 and &gt;45 years. Significant differences between patients and controls were found at all test sites in both age groups, except for warm thresholds at the medial lower leg in those &gt;45 years. QST thus demonstrated elevated thermal thresholds before the development of electrophysiological abnormalities, which indicate large-fiber involvement. These findings confirm that QST is a useful method for documentation of developing polyneuropathy.
Myotonic dystrophy type 2 (DM2) is a multisystem degenerative disorder with distinctive clinical and electrophysiological features. Recently, genetic confirmation has become available with the identification of the molecular defect, an expansion of a CCTG repeat located in intron 1 of the zinc finger protein 9 (ZNF9) gene. We present two first-degree relatives with an athletic clinical phenotype, pathological evidence of subsarcolemmal vacuolation, and molecular genetic confirmation of DM2. When found in the proper clinical context, athleticism and pathological subsarcolemmal vacuoles should not dissuade the clinician from the possible diagnosis of DM2.


During nervous system development, a small number of conserved guidance cues and receptors regulate many axon trajectories. How could a limited number of cues and receptors regulate such complex projection patterns? One way is to modulate receptor function. Here we show that the Caenorhabditis elegans kinesin-related protein VAB-8L, which is necessary and sufficient for posterior cell and growth-cone migrations, directs these migrations by regulating the levels of the guidance receptor SAX-3 (also known as robo). Genetic experiments indicate that VAB-8L and the Rac guanine nucleotide exchange factor activity of UNC-73 (trio) increase the ability of the SLT-1 (slit) and UNC-6 (netrin) guidance pathways to promote posterior guidance. The observations of higher SAX-3 receptor abundance in animals with increasing amounts of VAB-8L, and of physical interactions between UNC-73 and both VAB-8L and the intracellular domain of the SAX-3, support a model whereby VAB-8L directs cell and growth-cone migrations by promoting localization of guidance receptors to the cell surface.
The structure and function of presynaptic and postsynaptic components of the synapse are highly coordinated. How such coordination is achieved and the molecules involved in this process have not been clarified. Several lines of evidence suggest that presynaptic functionalities are regulated by retrograde mechanisms from the postsynaptic side. We therefore sought postsynaptic mechanisms responsible for trans-synaptic regulation of presynaptic function at excitatory synapses in rat hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons. We show here that the postsynaptic complex of scaffolding protein PSD-95 and neuroligin can modulate the release probability of transmitter vesicles at synapse in a retrograde way, resulting in altered presynaptic short-term plasticity. Presynaptic beta-neurexin serves as a likely presynaptic mediator of this effect. Our results indicate that trans-synaptic protein-protein interactions can link postsynaptic and presynaptic function.
The hippocampus is important for the acquisition of spatial representations of the environment and consequently in contextual memory. This suggests that the neural substrates underlying spatial cognition might be essential for remembering specific life episodes. Indeed, hippocampal lesions prevent spatial relational learning in adult rodents and monkeys, and result in profound amnesia in adult humans. In contrast, we show here that monkeys with neonatal hippocampal lesions learned new spatial relational information. Our experiments suggest that early hippocampal damage leads to functional brain reorganization that enables spatial information to be acquired through the use of brain regions that normally do not subserve this function.
It is well known that systemic infections cause flare-ups of disease in individuals with asthma and rheumatoid arthritis, and that relapses in multiple sclerosis can often be associated with upper respiratory-tract infections. Here we review evidence to support our hypothesis that in chronic neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease, with an ongoing innate immune response in the brain, systemic infections and inflammation can cause acute exacerbations of symptoms and drive the progression of neurodegeneration.
Discoveries in the field of neuroscience are a natural source of discourse among scientists and have long been disseminated to the public. Historically, as news of findings has travelled between communities, it has elicited both expected and unusual reactions. What scientific landmarks promote discourse within the professional community? Do the same findings achieve a place in the public eye? How does the media choose what is newsworthy, and why does the public react the way it does? Drawing on examples of past challenges at the crossroads of neuroscience and society and on a case study of trends in one neurogenetic disease, autism, we explore the dialectical forces interacting in scientific and public discourse.
The generation and targeting of appropriate numbers and types of neurons to where they are needed in the brain is essential for the establishment, maintenance and modification of neural circuitry. This review aims to summarize the patterns, mechanisms and functional significance of neuronal migration in the postnatal brain, with an emphasis on the migratory events that persist in the mature brain.
The mitotic spindle is the cellular scaffold that facilitates proper segregation of genetic material during cell division. Far from being static, the spindle is a dynamically regulated tool that can alter its size, shape and position during mitosis. Work in both insect and vertebrate systems has shown that regulation of this structure involves an array of highly conserved proteins. Moreover, it is now clear that tight regulation of the spindle during the process of neurogenesis is paramount to proper cell division and generation of the nervous system as a whole.
We study the generation of EEG rhythms by means of realistically coupled neural mass models. Previous neural mass models were used to model cortical voxels and the thalamus. Interactions between voxels of the same and other cortical areas and with the thalamus were taken into account. Voxels within the same cortical area were coupled (short-range connections) with both excitatory and inhibitory connections, while coupling between areas (long-range connections) was considered to be excitatory only. Short-range connection strengths were modeled by using a connectivity function depending on the distance between voxels. Coupling strength parameters between areas were defined from empirical anatomical data employing the information obtained from probabilistic paths, which were tracked by water diffusion imaging techniques and used to quantify white matter tracts in the brain. Each cortical voxel was then described by a set of 16 random differential equations, while the thalamus was described by a set of 12 random differential equations. Thus, for analyzing the neuronal dynamics emerging from the interaction of several areas, a large system of differential equations needs to be solved. The sparseness of the estimated anatomical connectivity matrix reduces the number of connection parameters substantially, making the solution of this system faster. Simulations of human brain rhythms were carried out in order to test the model. Physiologically plausible results were obtained based on this anatomically constrained neural mass model.
Uncertainty coming from the noise in its neurons and the ill-posed nature of many tasks plagues neural computations. Maybe surprisingly, many studies show that the brain manipulates these forms of uncertainty in a probabilistically consistent and normative manner, and there is now a rich theoretical literature on the capabilities of populations of neurons to implement computations in the face of uncertainty. However, one major facet of uncertainty has received comparatively little attention: time. In a dynamic, rapidly changing world, data are only temporarily relevant. Here, we analyze the computational consequences of encoding stimulus trajectories in populations of neurons. For the most obvious, simple, instantaneous encoder, the correlations induced by natural, smooth stimuli engender a decoder that requires access to information that is nonlocal both in time and across neurons. This formally amounts to a ruinous representation. We show that there is an alternative encoder that is computationally and representationally powerful in which each spike contributes independent information; it is independently decodable, in other words. We suggest this as an appropriate foundation for understanding time-varying population codes. Furthermore, we show how adaptation to temporal stimulus statistics emerges directly from the demands of simple decoding.
Structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies have shown dramatic age-associated changes in grey and white matter volume, but typically use univariate analyses that do not explicitly test the interrelationship among brain regions. The current study used a multivariate approach to identify covariance patterns of grey and white matter tissue density to distinguish older from younger adults. A second aim was to examine whether the expression of the age-associated covariance topographies is related to performance on cognitive tests affected by normal aging. Eighty-four young (mean age=24.0) and 29 older (mean age=73.1) participants were scanned with a 1.5T MRI machine and assessed with a cognitive battery. Images were spatially normalized and segmented to produce grey and white matter density maps. A multivariate technique, based on the subprofile scaling model, was used to capture sources of between- and within-group variation to produce a linear combination of principal components that represented a &quot;pattern&quot; or &quot;network&quot; that best discriminated between the two age groups. Univariate analyses were also conducted with statistical parametric maps. Grey and white matter covariance patterns were identified that reliably discriminated between the groups with greater than 0.90 sensitivity and specificity. The identified patterns were similar for the univariate and multivariate techniques, and involved widespread regions of the cortex and subcortex. Age and the expression of both patterns were significantly associated with performance on tests of attention, language, memory, and executive functioning. The results suggest that identifiable networks of grey and white matter regions systematically decline with age and that pattern expression is linked to age-related cognitive decline.
This experiment determined if the loss of endogenous melatonin via pinealectomy affected rat CA1 and CA3 pyramidal neuron numbers over a 20-month span. Since pinealectomy eliminates many neurohormones, some rats received daily melatonin supplementation to determine if this would reverse its effects. CA1 pyramidal cells were significantly reduced between 2 and 4 months after pinealectomy. CA3 loss was evident at 2 months post-pinealectomy. Melatonin replacement in the drinking water prevented these effects and seemingly promoted the genesis of CA1 cells. Analyses of hippocampal thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) levels at 3 and 20 months post-surgery, revealed no significant group differences in lipid peroxidation. However, hippocampal TBARS were higher at 20 than at 3 months in all groups. Pinealectomized rats exhibited a significantly higher ratio of reduced to oxidized glutathione at 3 months but not 20 months, when compared to the sham and melatonin-supplemented rats. This suggests that pinealectomy caused oxidative stress and a subsequent compensatory change in the glutathione system. These results indicate that endogenous melatonin is neuroprotective.
Disruption of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) is a characteristic finding in common neurological disorders. Human data suggest BBB disruption may underlie cerebral dysfunction. Animal experiments show the development of epileptiform activity following BBB breakdown. In the present study we investigated the neurophysiological, structural and functional consequences of BBB disruption. Adult rats underwent focal BBB disruption in the rat sensory-motor cortex using the bile salt sodium deoxycholate (DOC). Magnetic resonance imaging in-vivo showed an early BBB disruption with delayed reduction in cortical volume. This was associated with a reduced number of neurons and an increased number of astrocytes. In-vitro experiments showed that the threshold for spreading depression and the propagation velocity of the evoked epileptic potentials were increased 1 month after treatment. Furthermore, animals' motor functions deteriorated during the first few weeks following BBB disruption. Treatment with serum albumin resulted in a similar cell loss confirming that the effect of DOC was due to opening of the BBB. Our findings suggest that delayed neurodegeneration and functional impairment occur following the development of the epileptic focus in the BBB-permeable cerebral cortex.
The accumulation of misfolded proteins is associated with various neurodegenerative conditions. Peripheral myelin protein 22 (PMP22) is a hereditary neuropathy-linked, short-lived molecule that forms aggresomes when the proteasome is inhibited or the protein is mutated. We previously showed that the removal of pre-existing PMP22 aggregates is assisted by autophagy. Here we examined whether the accumulation of such aggregates could be suppressed by experimental induction of autophagy and/or chaperones. Enhancement of autophagy during proteasome inhibition hinders protein aggregate formation and correlates with a reduction in accumulated proteasome substrates. Conversely, simultaneous inhibition of autophagy and the proteasome augments the formation of aggregates. An increase of heat shock protein levels by geldanamycin treatment or heat shock preconditioning similarly hampers aggresome formation. The beneficial effects of autophagy and chaperones in preventing the accumulation of misfolded PMP22 are additive and provide a potential avenue for therapeutic approaches in hereditary neuropathies linked to PMP22 mutations.
Current evidence suggests that demyelination may be a necessary but not a sufficient condition for neurologic deficits associated with multiple sclerosis. Axon injury that occurs within the permissive environment of the demyelinated lesion is better correlated with functional deficits, but the mechanisms and cellular effectors of this injury are largely unknown. In an effort to identify potential axon injury mediators, we examined demyelination, motor function, and the number of spinal axons in perforin-deficient mice. Perforin is a critical molecular mediator of cytotoxic immunological injury and we hypothesized that genetic deletion of perforin expression would protect demyelinated axons. Indeed, we found that while perforin-deficient mice had considerable spinal cord demyelination 180 days after infection with Theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus, such mice exhibited functional and axonal preservation comparable to non-demyelinated perforin-competent controls. We conclude that perforin-dependent effector cells such as cytotoxic T cells, gammadelta T cells, and natural killer cells may play a role in axon damage that is dependent upon but separable from demyelination.
Patients and a mouse model of Batten disease, the juvenile form of neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (JNCL), raise autoantibodies against GAD65 and other brain-directed antigens. Here we investigate the adaptive component of the neuroimmune response. Cln3(-/-) mice have autoantibodies to GAD65 in their cerebrospinal fluid and elevated levels of brain bound immunoglobulin G (IgG). IgG deposition was found within human JNCL autopsy material, a feature that became more evident with increased age in Cln3(-/-) mice. The lymphocyte infiltration present in human and murine JNCL occurred late in disease progression, and was not capable of central/intrathecal IgG production. In contrast, we found evidence for an early systemic immune dysregulation in Cln3(-/-) mice. In addition evidence for a size-selective breach in the blood-brain barrier integrity in these mice suggests that systemically produced autoantibodies can access the JNCL central nervous system and contribute to a progressive inflammatory response.
Entorhinal cortex lesions induce significant reorganization of several homotypic and heterotypic inputs to the hippocampus. This investigation determined whether surviving heterotypic inputs after bilateral entorhinal lesions would support the acquisition of a learned alternation task. Rats with entorhinal lesions or sham operations were trained to acquire a spatial alternation task. Although the sham-operated rats acquired the task within about 3 weeks postsurgery, rats with bilateral entorhinal lesions failed to learn the task after 12 consecutive weeks of training despite heterotypic sprouting of the cholinergic septodentate pathway and the expansion of the commissural/associational fiber plexus within the dentate gyrus. Thus, heterotypic sprouting failed to ameliorate significantly the effects of bilateral entorhinal lesions. Rather, entorhinal lesions produced a persistent impairment of spatial memory, characterized by a mixture of random error production and perseverative responding.
The objectives were to (1) extend previous findings on fear extinction deficits in male congenitally helpless rats (a model for susceptibility to learned helplessness) to female congenitally helpless rats, and (2) attempt a therapeutic intervention with methylene blue, a metabolic enhancer that improves memory retention, to alleviate the predicted extinction deficits. In the first experiment, fear acquisition (four tone-shock pairings in operant chamber) was followed by extinction training (60 tones in open field). Congenitally helpless rats showed fear acquisition similar to controls but had dramatic extinction deficits, and did not display the gradual extinction curves observed in controls. Congenitally helpless rats demonstrated greater tone-evoked freezing as compared to controls in both the acquisition and extinction contexts one week after extinction training, and also in the extinction probe conducted one month later. In the second experiment (which began one month after the first experiment) congenitally helpless subjects were further exposed to tones for 5 days, each followed by 4 mg/kg methylene blue or saline IP, and had a fear renewal test in the acquisition context. Methylene blue administration improved retention of the extinction memory as demonstrated by significant decreases in fear renewal as compared to saline-administered congenitally helpless subjects. The impaired ability to extinguish fear to a traumatic memory in congenitally helpless rats supports the validity of this strain as an animal model for vulnerability to post-traumatic stress disorder, and this study further suggests that methylene blue may facilitate fear extinction as an adjunct to exposure therapy.
Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEis) are widely used anti-hypertensive agents that are also reported to have positive effects on mood and cognition. The present study examined the influence of the ACEi, perindopril, on cognitive performance and anxiety measures in rats. Two groups of rats were treated orally for one week with the ACEi, perindopril, at doses of 0.1 and 1.0mg/kg/day. Learning was assessed by the reference memory task in the water maze, comparing treated to control rats. Over five training days both perindopril-treated groups learnt the location of the submerged platform in the water maze task significantly faster than control rats. A 60s probe trial on day 6 showed that the 1.0mg/kg/day group spent significantly longer time in the training quadrant than control rats. This improved performance in the swim maze task was not due to the effect of perindopril on motor activity or the anxiety levels of the rats as perindopril-treated and control animals behaved similarly in activity boxes and on the elevated+maze. These results confirm the anecdotal human studies that ACEis have a positive influence on cognition and provide possibilities for ACEis to be developed into therapies for memory loss.
This study tries to shed light on the paradoxical finding that two inbred strains of mice C57BL/6 (C57) and DBA/2 (DBA), with differences in hippocampal function, perform similarly in the water maze (WM). Mice from both strains were trained on WM protocols permitting or preventing the use of vestibular signals. Hippocampal involvement in performance was then assessed by estimation of post-training mossy fiber (MF) synaptogenesis. We found that C57 and DBA mice performed similarly when both visual and vestibular information were available but only C57 mice exhibited new MF synapses. Disruption of vestibular inputs impaired performance in DBA mice but not in C57 mice which still exhibited a post-training increase of hippocampal MF synaptic terminals. This strain-specific dissociation indicates that DBA mice can navigate successfully by relying on vestibular signals without engaging their hippocampus. In contrast, vestibular signals are irrelevant for C57 mice since their suppression neither disrupts their behavior nor prevents the formation of new hippocampal synapses. These findings suggest some caution is required in considering performance on standard WM protocols as an index of hippocampus-based learning. Estimating the extent of post-training mossy fiber synaptogenesis would be helpful in solving this issue.
Learning to perform instrumental tasks is an ability of all animals. In a population of rats, not all individuals will acquire an operant response for reward. We hypothesized that there could be a genetic explanation for differences between High Consumers (those that acquired the lever press response) and Low Consumers (lever press response is low). Additionally, we proposed that this genetic difference could produce measurable changes in response to novelty. Wistar rats were trained to lever press for a 0.2% saccharin reward and on the 10th day they were placed in a novel open field for 30 min to record locomotor activity. The prefrontal cortex and hippocampus were dissected and qPCR was used to measure mRNA expression. A significant difference (p=.048; 2-way ANOVA) in gene expression was observed between Low and High Consumers. A principal component analysis (PCA), to cluster which genes represent this difference, identified 4 genes; 5-HT2A and mGlu1 in the hippocampus and AMPA GluR1 and adrenergic alpha2A in the prefrontal cortex. Response to a novel open field also differed since Low Consumers displayed a higher Total Distance in comparison to High Consumers. Additionally, Low Consumers could be subdivided into Low-Lever (with lever press response only when water deprived) and Low-Non-Lever (lever press response is low throughout training). PCA with this subdivision identified an additional nine genes differing within the divisions; NMDA NR2B and GABAAalpha3 in the prefrontal cortex and adrenergic alpha2B and alpha2A, AMPA GluR1, GluR2 and GluR3, 5-HT1B and GABAAalpha5 in the hippocampus.
Eight children with moderate to severe traumatic brain injury (TBI) and eight matched, uninjured control children underwent fMRI during an N-back task to test effects of TBI on working memory performance and brain activation. Two patterns in the TBI group were observed. Patients whose criterion performance was reached at lower memory loads than control children demonstrated less extensive frontal and extrafrontal brain activation than controls. Patients who performed the same, highest (3-back) memory load as controls demonstrated more frontal and extrafrontal activation than controls. Our findings of performance and brain activation changes in children after TBI await longitudinal investigation.
Recent studies indicate that astrocytes may be the primary target of secreted amyloid-beta 1-42 peptides, with the neurotoxicity representing a secondary response to astrocytic stress. Our purpose was to clarify the astrocytic stress response induced by amyloid-beta peptides in human and rat astrocytes. Human amyloid-beta 1-42 peptides and fibrils induced the appearance of cytoplasmic vacuoles in normal human astrocytes (NHA) and CCFsttg1 astrocytoma cells. Vacuoles appeared 9-12h after the amyloid-beta exposure and remained present for several days. Rat primary neonatal astrocytes showed similar but less prominent vacuolar response. Human amyloid-beta peptides 1-16, 1-28, 10-20, 17-21 and 25-35 did not cause vacuole formation. Electron microscopic observations revealed large endocytic vacuoles containing fibrillar amyloid material. Stress marker analysis did not show any increase in protein levels of HSP70, HSP90, GRP78 and GRP94. However, the protein level of clusterin/apoJ, a secreted chaperone, was strongly increased both in NHA and CCFsttg1 astrocytes. Endocytic response associated with the accumulation of clusterin/apoJ protein suggests that clusterin/apoJ has a role in the clearance of amyloid-beta peptides.

Diurnal changes in Chordc1 mRNA were recently described in mouse hypothalamus. This report shows that Chordc1 mRNA changes rhythmically throughout the entire adult brain with highest expression levels occurring around the dark-light transition. The rhythmic cycling pattern of Chordc1 was retained under various light-dark schedules and analysis of adult whole brain revealed diurnal patterns that were different than young animals (postnatal day (P) 6). Analysis of adult hippocampus, prefrontal cortex and cerebellum confirmed these observations and a comparison between adult and P6 animals using in situ hybridization indicated that Chordc1 underwent coordinated but altered diurnal changes in mRNA abundance during development. Further, a developmental profile of Chordc1 expression beginning at embryonic day 17 revealed a regional distribution of Chordc1 consistent with its adult pattern. These results suggest that Chordc1 mRNA is under complex and widespread transcriptional regulation during development and implicate Chordc1 in circadian and/or homeostatic mechanisms in mammalian brain.
Despite a substantial understanding of the factors regulating oligodendrocyte differentiation, the signaling mechanisms involved in this process are not well-understood. This study elaborates on the findings (Bhat NR, Zhang P (1997) FASEB J 11:A925; Baron W, Metz B, Bansal R, Hoekstra D, de Vries H (2000) Mol Cell Neurosci 15:314-329) of a role for p38 MAP kinase signaling in oligodendrocyte differentiation and myelin gene expression. When proliferating oligodendrocyte progenitors were switched to a growth factor-free differentiation medium, there was a rapid activation of p38 kinase that correlated with an increased phosphorylation of CREB, a down-stream target and a factor involved in oligodendrocyte differentiation. Addition of forskolin, a known inducer of intracellular c-AMP and of oligodendrocyte differentiation, also stimulated CREB phosphorylation in a p38 kinase dependent way. Pharmacological inhibition of p38 interfered with the morphological and antigenic changes associated with differentiating oligodendrocytes as well as with the developmental and forskolin-induced expression of myelin basic protein, thereby supporting an essential role for p38 MAPK pathway in oligodendrocyte differentiation.
Neural stem cells (NSCs) differentiate into neurons, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes depending on their location within the central nervous system (CNS). The cellular and molecular cues mediating end-stage cell fate choices are not completely understood. The retention of multipotent NSCs in the adult CNS raises the possibility that selective recruitment of their progeny to specific lineages may facilitate repair in a spectrum of neuropathological conditions. Previous studies suggest that adult human bone marrow derived mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) improve functional outcome after a wide range of CNS insults, probably through their trophic influence. In the context of such trophic activity, here we demonstrate that hMSCs in culture provide humoral signals that selectively promote the genesis of neurons and oligodendrocytes from NSCs. Cell-cell contacts were less effective and the proportion of hMSCs that could be induced to express neural characteristics was very small. We propose that the selective promotion of neuronal and oligodendroglial fates in neural stem cell progeny is responsible for the ability of MSCs to enhance recovery after a wide range of CNS injuries.
Glutamate and its receptors are expressed very early during development and may play important roles in neurogenesis, synapse formation and brain wiring. The levels of glutamate and activity of its receptors can be influenced by exogenous factors, leading to neurodevelopmental disorders. To investigate the role of NMDA receptors on gene regulation in a neuronal model, we used primary neuronal cultures developed from embryonic rat cerebri in serum-free medium. Using Affymetrix Gene Arrays, we found that genes known to be involved in neuronal plasticity were differentially expressed 24 h after a brief activation of NMDA receptors. The upregulation of these genes was accompanied by a sustained induction of CREB phosphorylation, and an increase in synaptophysin immunoreactivity. We conclude that NMDA receptor activation elicits expression of genes whose downstream products are involved in the regulation of early phases of the process leading to synaptogenesis and its consolidation, at least in part through sustained CREB phosphorylation.
In this minireview, the author briefly reviews the development of our understanding on the immunological function of golli proteins. In the immune system, in addition to serving as autoantigens, golli proteins have been recently found to regulate T-cell activation directly, thus modulating EAE induction. The evidence that golli proteins function as signal molecules is summarized.
CNTF (ciliary neurotrophic factor) has been suggested to be an important survival factor for oligodendrocytes; however, this effect is inconsistently obtained and myelination appears normal in CNTF null animals. On the other hand, CNTF stimulates astrocytes to produce growth and trophic factors. Therefore, we tested the hypothesis that CNTF acts indirectly through astrocytes to promote oligodendrocyte survival. We show that CNTF-stimulated astrocytes release a trophic factor(s) that leads to more than double the number of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs) by 48 h. The trophic activity fractionates at greater than 30 kD. By contrast, OPCs grown in CNTF supplemented chemically defined medium fared no better than cells grown without CNTF. Untreated astrocytes, and CNTF- and IL-1beta -stimulated astrocytes all promoted the proliferation of OPCs to a similar extent, but only the CNTF-stimulated astrocyte conditioned media (CM) resulted in increased OPCs numbers. Cumulatively, these results confirm previous data indicating that astrocytes release potent mitogens for oligodendroglia, and demonstrate that CNTF stimulates astrocytes to release an OPC survival-promoting activity.
Immunohistochemical methods were used to label singly and/or in combination glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD, the sole synthesizing enzyme for the inhibitory neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid) and phosphate-activated glutaminase (GLN, a synthesizing enzyme for glutamate) in neurons of lateral reticular nucleus (LRN) of thalamus of adult cats. (1) GAD- and GLN-immunoreactivity (IR) exhibited matching regional patterns of organization within LRN. (2) GAD- and GLN-IR co-localized within most if not all LRN neuronal cell bodies as shown by light microscopy. (3) GAD- and GLN-IR had distinct subcellular localizations in LRN neurons as shown by correlative light/electron microscopy. LRN neurons are important conceptual models where strongly inhibitory cells receive predominant excitatory glutamatergic afferents (from neocortex). Consistent with known actions of intermediary astrocytes, LRN neurons demonstrate GLN enrichment synergistically coupled with glutamatergic innervation to supplement the glutamate pool for GABA synthesis (via GAD) and for metabolic utilization (via the GABA shunt/tricarboxylic acid cycle) but not, apparently, for excitatory neurotransmission.
A mechanosensitive Na(+) current carried by Na(v)1.5 is present in human intestinal circular smooth muscle and contributes to regulation of intestinal motor function. Expression of this channel in different species is unknown. Our aim was to determine if Na(+) currents and message for the alpha subunit of the Na(+) channel (SCN5A) are found in circular smooth muscle cells of human, dog, pig, mouse and guinea pig jejunum. Currents were recorded using patch clamp techniques. Message for SCN5A was investigated using laser capture microdissection and reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Na(+) currents were identified consistently in human and dog smooth muscle cells; however, Na(+) current was not found in pig (0/20) or guinea pig smooth muscle cells (0/21) and found only one mouse cell (1/21). SCN5A mRNA was found in circular muscle of human, dog, and mouse, but not in pig or guinea pig, and not in mouse longitudinal or mucosal layers. In summary, SCN5A message is expressed in, and Na(+) current recorded from, circular muscle layer of human and dog but not from pig and guinea pig. These data show that there are species differences in expression of the SCN5A-encoded Na(v)1.5 channel, suggesting species-specific differences in the electrophysiological response to mechanical and depolarizing stimuli.
5-HT(3) antagonists are effective treatments for chemotherapy-induced emesis and diarrhoea and urgency and pain associated with irritable bowel syndrome. Reports of ischaemic colitis led to restricted use of the approved drug, alosetron. This article briefly reviews the controversial information from epidemiology and adverse reaction reports and addresses the experimental basis for the development of ischaemic colitis as a result of 5-HT(3) antagonist treatment. The author reviews the potential factors based involved in the ischaemic colitis and ways in which this class of compound may influence those factors based on experimental evidence, including the literature on any vascular effects of these agents. Finally, the article addresses the theoretical basis for the constipation as a predisposing factor for the development of ischaemic colitis. The evidence reviewed suggests that further studies are needed to explore the principles to prove or disprove the association.
The aim of this study was to measure the contextual influence of globally coherent motion on visual cortical responses using functional magnetic resonance imaging. Our motivation was to test a prediction from representational theories of perception (i.e. predictive coding) that primary visual responses should be suppressed by top-down influences during coherent motion. We used a sparse stimulus array such that each element could not fall within the same classical receptive field of primary visual cortex neurons (i.e. precluding lateral interactions within V1). This enabled us to attribute differences, in striate cortex responses, to extra-classical receptive field effects mediated by backward connections. In accord with theoretical predictions we were able to demonstrate suppression of striate cortex activations to coherent relative to incoherent motion. These results suggest that suppression of primary visual cortex responses to coherent motion reflect extra-classical effects mediated by backward connections.
In previous work we have described a spatially regularised General Linear Model (GLM) for the analysis of brain functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) data where Posterior Probability Maps (PPMs) are used to characterise regionally specific effects. The spatial regularisation is defined over regression coefficients via a Laplacian kernel matrix and embodies prior knowledge that evoked responses are spatially contiguous and locally homogeneous. In this paper we propose to finesse this Bayesian framework by specifying spatial priors using Sparse Spatial Basis Functions (SSBFs). These are defined via a hierarchical probabilistic model which, when inverted, automatically selects an appropriate subset of basis functions. The method includes non-linear wavelet shrinkage as a special case. As compared to Laplacian spatial priors, SSBFs allow for spatial variations in signal smoothness, are more computationally efficient and are robust to heteroscedastic noise. Results are shown on synthetic data and on data from an event-related fMRI experiment.
It is widely accepted that memory traces of an event include various types of information about the content of the event and about the circumstances in which the individual experienced it. However, how these various types of information are stored and later retrieved is poorly understood. One hypothesis postulates that the retrieval of specific event information reactivates regions that were active during the encoding of this information, with the aid of binding functions of the medial temporal lobe (MTL) structures. We used positron emission tomography to identify the brain regions related to the encoding and retrieval of color information. Specifically, we assessed whether overlapping activity was found in both the MTL structures and color-related cortical regions during the encoding and retrieval of color information attached with meaningless shapes. During the study, subjects were asked to encode colored (red or green) and achromatic random shapes. At subsequent testing, subjects were presented with only achromatic shapes, which had been presented with or without colors during encoding, and were engaged in retrieval tasks of shapes and colors. Overlapping activity was found in the MTL and occipital lobe (the lingual and inferior occipital gyri) in the right hemisphere during the encoding and retrieval of meaningless shapes with color information compared with those without color information. Although there are some limitations to be considered, the present findings seem to support the view that the retrieval of specific event information is associated with reactivation of both the MTL structures and the regions involved during encoding of the information.
Decisions based on the timing of sensory events are fundamental to sensory processing. However, the mechanisms by which the brain measures time over ranges of milliseconds to seconds remain unclear. The dominant model of temporal processing proposes that an oscillator emits events that are integrated to provide a linear metric of time. We examine an alternate model in which cortical networks are inherently able to tell time as a result of time-dependent changes in network state. Using computer simulations we show that within this framework, there is no linear metric of time, and that a given interval is encoded in the context of preceding events. Human psychophysical studies were used to examine the predictions of the model. Our results provide theoretical and experimental evidence that, for short intervals, there is no linear metric of time, and that time may be encoded in the high-dimensional state of local neural networks.
Excitotoxicity mediated by glutamate receptors plays crucial roles in ischemia and other neurodegenerative diseases. Whereas overactivation of ionotropic glutamate receptors is neurotoxic, the role of metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs), and especially mGluR1, remains equivocal. Here we report that activation of NMDA receptors results in calpain-mediated truncation of the C-terminal domain of mGluR1alpha at Ser(936). The truncated mGluR1alpha maintains its ability to increase cytosolic calcium while it no longer activates the neuroprotective PI(3)K-Akt signaling pathways. Full-length and truncated forms of mGluR1alpha play distinct roles in excitotoxic neuronal degeneration in cultured neurons. A fusion peptide derived from the calpain cleavage site of mGluR1alpha efficiently blocks NMDA-induced truncation of mGluR1alpha in primary neuronal cultures and exhibits neuroprotection against excitotoxicity both in vitro and in vivo. These findings shed light on the relationship between NMDA and mGluR1alpha and indicate the existence of a positive feedback regulation in excitotoxicity involving calpain and mGluR1alpha.
Cholecystokinin (CCK) was determined in plasma obtained from 10 female (aged 23.4+/-SD 2.3 years) and nine male (aged 22.0+/-SD 1.4 years) healthy volunteers. Blood samples were drawn three times (8.00a.m., 12 noon and 8.00a.m.) on each of two sessions, one in the winter (November-December) and one in the summer (April-July). The participants had fasted (and were nicotine-free) since midnight preceding the sampling. A standardized breakfast was served after the first sampling. CCK was determined by radioimmunoassay. The area under the curve 0-24h (AUC)(CCK Winter) was lower than AUC(CCK Summer) (F(1:17)=4.73; P=0.0440) in the whole group of volunteers. On comparing the CCK concentrations within each session, there was an overall difference in winter (F(2:36)=14.81; P&lt;0.0001) as well in summer (F(2:36)=18.39; P&lt;0.0001). Post hoc comparisons yielded a difference between the 8.00a.m. and 12 noon concentrations on the first day in winter (t=-3.96; P=0.0009) as well as in summer (t=-4.64; P=0.0002). The difference between the summer and winter AUCs(CCK) correlated with the difference between AUCs for temperatures in summer and winter (r=0.58; P=0.0089). The correlation was accounted for by the females (r=0.73; P=0.0171). The results are in accord with a diurnal and a seasonal variation of CCK in human plasma.
Positive allosteric modulation of AMPA receptor function has therapeutic potential in a number of psychiatric disorders and neurodegenerative diseases. AMPA receptor potentiators can induce neurite sprouting in vivo. Using a strategy of combined morphological and biochemical analyses, we investigated the effect of the AMPA receptor potentiator LY404187 on neurite growth in the SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cell line. LY404187 (0.1-10 microM) increased average neurite length and neurofilament expression when co-administered with s-AMPA. Co-incubation with s-AMPA and LY404187 also increased Trk receptor expression. All actions of LY404187 were sensitive to AMPA receptor blockade by the selective antagonist CNQX (10 microM). Antibody sequestration of BDNF attenuated neurite growth following AMPA receptor potentiator administration, suggesting that LY404187 increases neurite length in vitro by a BDNF mediated mechanism. AMPA receptor potentiation activates multiple intracellular neurochemical cascades and the present report identifies BDNF as one key mediator of the neurotrophic effects of AMPA receptor potentiation.
Cannabinoids have been reported to sustain self-administration in laboratory animals; however, genetic differences and environmental factors critical in the initiation and retention of such behaviour are yet to be defined. This study investigated the acquisition, maintenance and extinction of self-administration of the cannabinoid CB1 receptor agonist WIN 55,212-2 (6.25-25 microg/kg/inf) in Long Evans, Lister Hooded and Sprague-Dawley rats under a continuous schedule of reinforcement and two different response-like operanda, nose-poking and lever-pressing. Results showed that Long Evans and Lister Hooded, but not Sprague Dawley, rats acquired and retained stable cannabinoid self-administration behaviour under both modus operandi, as defined by significant differences between responding in the active versus the inactive hole/lever. In rats developing firm self-administration, substitution of saline for WIN 55,212-2 extinguished the responding, supporting the notion that cannabinoids may serve as a positive reinforcer in laboratory animals. Nevertheless, significant differences among strains and responding modalities were observed in the percentage of acquisition, amount of drug intake during maintenance and timing of extinction. In addition, no significant strain differences were found in motor response to WIN 55,212-2 (0.3 and 3.0 mg/kg), thus excluding that strain differences observed during cannabinoid self-administration could be related to different cannabinoid-induced locomotor effects.
Using cAMP accumulation as a functional readout, we pharmacologically characterized the response of native melanocortin receptors in cultured rat astrocytes, and found this response to be mediated by the melanocortin 4 receptor (MC4R). Melancortin agonists stimulate cAMP in a concentration-dependent manner in both astrocytes and human embryonic kidney cells recombinantly expressing rat MC4R (HEK-rMC4R), however, the relative potency and intrinsic activity of both small molecule and peptide agonists are reduced in the native system. As such, the small molecules THIQ, NBI-702 and MB243 display 43, 30 and 18% of the maximal response elicited by alpha-MSH in astrocytes. Likewise, the peptides MTII and ACTH display 55 and 72% of the maximal response elicited by alpha-MSH in these cells. In contrast, all of these compounds elicit full agonist responses with similar intrinsic activity to alpha-MSH in HEK-rMC4R cells. MC4R mRNA was detected in astrocytes, however radioligand binding experiments failed to detect measurable MC4R in astrocyte membranes, in contrast to membranes from HEK-rMC4R cells that display a binding site density of 18.1+/-1.5 fmol/mg. We propose that the divergent observations in functional activity between the cell types reflect differences in receptor expression and that caution should be exercised when interpreting agonist activity in over-expression systems for the purposes of drug discovery.
Adenosine can regulate synaptic transmission through modulation of the action of other neurotransmitters. The influence of adenosine on VIP enhancement of synaptic transmission in hippocampal slices was investigated. Facilitation of fEPSP slope by 1 nM VIP (23.3+/-1.3%) was turned into an inhibition (-12.1+/-3.4%) when extracellular endogenous adenosine was removed using adenosine deaminase (ADA, 1U/ml). Blockade of adenosine A(1) receptors with 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine (DPCPX, 10 nM) or of A(2A) receptors with ZM241385 (20 nM) attenuated the effect of VIP. When both DPCPX and ZM241385 were present the effect of VIP was abolished. In the presence of ADA, selective A(1) receptor activation with N(6)-cyclopentyladenosine (CPA, 15 nM) or A(2A) receptor-activation with CGS21680 (10 nM) partially readmitted the excitatory effect of VIP on fEPSPs. In contrast, facilitation of PS amplitude by 1 nM VIP (19.1+/-1.2%) was attenuated in the presence of ADA or DPCPX but was not changed by ZM241385. CPA, in the presence of ADA, fully restored the effect of VIP on PS amplitude. In conclusion, VIP facilitation of synaptic transmission to hippocampal pyramidal cell dendrites is dependent on both A(1) and A(2A) receptor activation by endogenous adenosine. VIP effects on PS amplitude are only dependent on A(1) adenosine receptor activation. This differential sensitivity to adenosine modulation might be due to the different VIP circuits contributing to VIP effects on pyramidal cell dendrites and pyramidal cell bodies.
The involvement of alpha(2) noradrenergic receptors during amygdala 'massed' stimulation (MS) was examined in rats that were selectively bred to be seizure-prone (Fast) or seizure-resistant (Slow) to amygdala kindling. The selective alpha(2) noradrenergic agonist guanfacine, or the antagonist idazoxan, was intraperitoneally injected during the MS procedure to study subsequent changes in afterdischarge (AD) threshold, AD duration and behavioral seizure expression. These measurements were again assessed weekly for 2 weeks after the MS treatment. Daily kindling began immediately thereafter. Following 6 stage-5 once daily convulsive seizures, guanfacine or idazoxan were re-administered. With idazoxan, the Slow rats expressed greater numbers of convulsive seizures and longer AD durations compared to guanfacine or saline controls during MS treatment. This pro-convulsive property of idazoxan was absent in Fast rats. By contrast, Fast rats showed enhanced convulsive expression in the presence of guanfacine. In the fully kindled rat, idazoxan and guanfacine differentially impacted seizure duration and severity in the Slow rats, but again not in the Fast rats. These data suggest that some aspect(s) of the alpha(2) noradrenergic system in the Fast and Slow rats are dissimilar and the mechanisms by which these receptors govern seizure genesis and propagation may be genetically controlled and distinct.
D- and L-amphetamine sulphate isomers, methylphenidate and atomoxetine, are effective treatments for attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). This study provides a detailed comparison of their effects on the synaptosomal and vesicular accumulation of dopamine (DA) and noradrenaline (NA) and release in vitro in rat prefrontal cortex and striatum. D-amphetamine was more potent than L-amphetamine at inhibiting accumulation of DA or NA in synaptosomes and vesicles. All drugs were weaker at inhibiting the accumulation of vesicular DA and NA compared to synaptosomal accumulation and more potently inhibited NA accumulation than DA. Methylphenidate was weak at inhibiting vesicular accumulation of DA and NA compared to its potent synaptosomal effects. The D-isomer had greater potency than the L-isomer on basal and electrically stimulated striatal DA release; however the L-isomer was 2-fold more potent than the D-isomer on basal fronto-cortical NA release. The selective DA reuptake inhibitor, GBR-12909 and NA reuptake inhibitors, maprotiline and atomoxetine, had different release profiles both on the potency and magnitude of basal and stimulated DA and NA release compared to the amphetamine isomers. These results identify distinct pharmacological action by the amphetamine isomers on dopaminergic and noradrenergic neurotransmission, which may impact on their therapeutic effects in the treatment of ADHD.
Cognitive psychology has provided clinicians with specific tools for analyzing the processes of cognition (memory, language) and executive functions (attention-concentration, abstract reasoning, planning). Neuropsychology, coupled with the neurosciences (including neuroimaging techniques), has authenticated the existence of early disorders affecting the &quot;superior or intellectual&quot; functions of the human brain. The prevalence of cognitive and attention disorders is high in adults because all the diseases implicating the central nervous system are associated with cognitive correlates of variable intensity depending on the disease process and the age of the patient. In some pathologies, cognitive impairment can be a leading symptom such as in schizophrenia, posttraumatic stress disorder or an emblematic stigmata as in dementia including Alzheimer's disease. Paradoxically, public health authorities have only recognized as medications for improving cognitive symptoms those with proven efficacy in the symptomatic treatment of patients with Alzheimer's disease; the other cognitive impairments are relegated to the orphanage of syndromes and symptoms dispossessed of medication. The purpose of this review is to promote a true &quot;pharmacology of cognition&quot; based on the recent knowledge in neurosciences. Data from adult human beings, mainly concerning memory, language, and attention processes, will be reported. &quot;Drug therapeutic strategies&quot; for improving cognition (except for memory function) are currently rather scarce, but promising perspectives for a new neurobiological approach to cognitive pharmacology will be highlighted.
Seeing a speaker's facial articulatory gestures powerfully affects speech perception, helping us overcome noisy acoustical environments. One particularly dramatic illustration of visual influences on speech perception is the &quot;McGurk illusion&quot;, where dubbing an auditory phoneme onto video of an incongruent articulatory movement can often lead to illusory auditory percepts. This illusion is so strong that even in the absence of any real change in auditory stimulation, it activates the automatic auditory change-detection system, as indexed by the mismatch negativity (MMN) component of the auditory event-related potential (ERP). We investigated the putative left hemispheric dominance of McGurk-MMN using high-density ERPs in an oddball paradigm. Topographic mapping of the initial McGurk-MMN response showed a highly lateralized left hemisphere distribution, beginning at 175 ms. Subsequently, scalp activity was also observed over bilateral fronto-central scalp with a maximal amplitude at approximately 290 ms, suggesting later recruitment of right temporal cortices. Strong left hemisphere dominance was again observed during the last phase of the McGurk-MMN waveform (350-400 ms). Source analysis indicated bilateral sources in the temporal lobe just posterior to primary auditory cortex. While a single source in the right superior temporal gyrus (STG) accounted for the right hemisphere activity, two separate sources were required, one in the left transverse gyrus and the other in STG, to account for left hemisphere activity. These findings support the notion that visually driven multisensory illusory phonetic percepts produce an auditory-MMN cortical response and that left hemisphere temporal cortex plays a crucial role in this process.
It is well documented that both featural and configural information are important in visual face recognition. Less is known, however, about the nature of the information underlying haptic face recognition and whether or not this information is the same as in vision. In our experiments we found better within modal than crossmodal face recognition performance suggesting that face representations are largely specific to each modality. Moreover, this cost in crossmodal performance was found to be independent of differences in exploratory procedures across the modalities during encoding. We found that crossmodal face perception was most efficient when configural information of the facial features was preserved suggesting that configural information is shared across modalities. Our findings suggest that face information is processed in a similar manner across vision and touch but that qualitative differences in the nature of the information encoded underlies efficient within modal relative to crossmodal recognition.
The synchronous occurrence of the unisensory components of a multisensory stimulus contributes to their successful merging into a coherent perceptual representation. Oscillatory gamma-band responses (GBRs, 30-80 Hz) have been linked to feature integration mechanisms and to multisensory processing, suggesting they may also be sensitive to the temporal alignment of multisensory stimulus components. Here we examined the effects on early oscillatory GBR brain activity of varying the precision of the temporal synchrony of the unisensory components of an audio-visual stimulus. Audio-visual stimuli were presented with stimulus onset asynchronies ranging from -125 to +125 ms. Randomized streams of auditory (A), visual (V), and audio-visual (AV) stimuli were presented centrally while subjects attended to either the auditory or visual modality to detect occasional targets. GBRs to auditory and visual components of multisensory AV stimuli were extracted for five subranges of asynchrony (e.g., A preceded by V by 100+/-25 ms, by 50+/-25 ms, etc.) and compared with GBRs to unisensory control stimuli. Robust multisensory interactions were observed in the early GBRs when the auditory and visual stimuli were presented with the closest synchrony. These effects were found over medial-frontal brain areas after 30-80 ms and over occipital brain areas after 60-120 ms. A second integration effect, possibly reflecting the perceptual separation of the two sensory inputs, was found over occipital areas when auditory inputs preceded visual by 100+/-25 ms. No significant interactions were observed for the other subranges of asynchrony. These results show that the precision of temporal synchrony can have an impact on early cross-modal interactions in human cortex.
When viewing a three-dimensional Necker cube with one eye, participants can experience illusory reversals even while they feel the cube with their hands. This surprising property of the visual-haptic Necker cube affords a unique opportunity to investigate temporal constraints on interactions between vision and touch during extended observation of a three-dimensional object. Our observers reported reversals while they viewed the cube and, at the same time, they either held it with two-finger grips, felt it with while their hands remained stationary, or actively explored it by moving one hand. Consistent with a multisensory approach to three-dimensional form perception, touch had a clear effect on both the number and the duration of illusory percepts. Additionally, when observers alternated between stationary and moving periods during exploration, transitions from stationary to moving-hand haptics played a crucial role in inhibiting illusory reversals. A temporal analysis of the probability of first reversals occurring after different types of motor transition revealed a &quot;vetoing window&quot; initiating approximately 2s after the transition and lasting at least another 1-2s. Implications for multisensory processes during exploration are discussed.
The processing of biological motion is a critical, everyday task performed with remarkable efficiency by human sensory systems. Interest in this ability has focused to a large extent on biological motion processing in the visual modality (see, for example, Cutting, J. E., Moore, C., &amp; Morrison, R. (1988). Masking the motions of human gait. Perception and Psychophysics, 44(4), 339-347). In naturalistic settings, however, it is often the case that biological motion is defined by input to more than one sensory modality. For this reason, here in a series of experiments we investigate behavioural correlates of multisensory, in particular audiovisual, integration in the processing of biological motion cues. More specifically, using a new psychophysical paradigm we investigate the effect of suprathreshold auditory motion on perceptions of visually defined biological motion. Unlike data from previous studies investigating audiovisual integration in linear motion processing [Meyer, G. F. &amp; Wuerger, S. M. (2001). Cross-modal integration of auditory and visual motion signals. Neuroreport, 12(11), 2557-2560; Wuerger, S. M., Hofbauer, M., &amp; Meyer, G. F. (2003). The integration of auditory and motion signals at threshold. Perception and Psychophysics, 65(8), 1188-1196; Alais, D. &amp; Burr, D. (2004). No direction-specific bimodal facilitation for audiovisual motion detection. Cognitive Brain Research, 19, 185-194], we report the existence of direction-selective effects: relative to control (stationary) auditory conditions, auditory motion in the same direction as the visually defined biological motion target increased its detectability, whereas auditory motion in the opposite direction had the inverse effect. Our data suggest these effects do not arise through general shifts in visuo-spatial attention, but instead are a consequence of motion-sensitive, direction-tuned integration mechanisms that are, if not unique to biological visual motion, at least not common to all types of visual motion. Based on these data and evidence from neurophysiological and neuroimaging studies we discuss the neural mechanisms likely to underlie this effect.
This is a pilot examination of the hypothesis that some of the effects of smoking cigarettes in humans are mediated through nicotine activation of opioid and dopamine (DA) neurotransmission. Neuroimaging was performed using positron emission tomography and the radiotracers [11C]carfentanil and [11C]raclopride, labeling mu-opioid and DA D2 receptors, respectively. Six healthy male smokers were abstinent overnight. After radiotracer administration, subjects smoked two denicotinized cigarettes, followed 45 min later by two average nicotine cigarettes. Dynamic data were acquired over 90 min, and transformed into parametric maps of receptor availability in vivo (binding potential, BP), corresponding to low and high nicotine smoking periods and analyzed on a voxel-by-voxel basis using SPM'99 and correction for multiple comparisons. Significant activation of mu-opioid receptor-mediated neurotransmission from denicotinized to average nicotine conditions was observed in the right anterior cingulate cortex. DA D2 neurotransmission was activated in the ventral basal ganglia, correlating with Fagerstrm scale nicotine dependence scores. Lower mu-opioid receptor BP was also detected during the denicotinized smoking condition in the smoker group, compared to baseline scans in non-smokers, in the cingulate cortex, thalamus, ventral basal ganglia, and amygdala. These reductions were reversed during the average nicotine condition in the thalamus, ventral basal ganglia and amygdala. These data point to both the feasibility of simultaneously examining opioid and DA neurotransmission responses to smoking in humans, as well as to the need to examine non-nicotine aspects of smoking to more fully understand the behavioral effects of this drug.
It is well established that L-NAME, a generic NOS inhibitor, stimulates neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus of the adult rat and corticosterone reduces it. These experiments explore the interaction between L-NAME and corticosterone. L-NAME (50 mg/kg), as expected, increased proliferation, but also lowered plasma corticosterone levels. However, the stimulating action of L-NAME depends on the presence of rhythmic changes in plasma corticosterone, as it is abolished in rats treated with a subcutaneous implant of corticosterone, which flattens the diurnal rhythm. Adrenalectomized rats implanted with corticosterone also failed to respond to L-NAME. Giving them a single daily injection of corticosterone (2 mg/kg) in an attempt to replicate the diurnal rhythm restored the sensitivity of the progenitor cells to L-NAME. The mechanism for this result remains to be investigated. Excess corticosterone given by daily injection (40/mg/kg) reduced proliferation but did not alter the response to L-NAME, even though this occurred from a lower baseline. nNOS was demonstrable only in the inner (proliferative) layer of the dentate gyrus in control rats, and did not alter following excess corticosterone treatment. iNOS was detectable at low levels in control rats, but was increased markedly following corticosterone. eNOS was evident throughout the dentate gyrus, and also increased after corticosterone (particularly in the hilus). Aminoguanidine (100 mg/kg/day; an iNOS antagonist) significantly increased proliferation in corticosterone-treated rats (40 mg/kg/day) but not in controls without additional corticosterone, confirming that iNOS plays a role in corticosterone-regulated neurogenesis. Corticosterone may thus act on progenitor cells in part at least through increased nitric oxide (NO) formation. The effects of reduced NO on neurogenesis may rely on a dual mechanism: corresponding reductions in plasma corticosterone and increased induction of iNOS (and/or eNOS) within the dentate gyrus. The possibility that NO acts downstream of glucocorticoids in the dentate gyrus is suggested.
The anticonvulsant topiramate (TPM) has been recently proposed as a novel adjuvant therapy for bipolar disorder and schizophrenia, yet its efficacy remains controversial. As both disorders are characterized by gating deficits, we tested the effects of TPM on the behavioral paradigm of prepulse inhibition (PPI) of the acoustic startle response, a validated animal model of sensorimotor gating. TPM (10, 18, 32, 58, 100 mg/kg, intraperitoneal, i.p.) enhanced PPI in rats in a dose-dependent fashion, prevented the PPI reduction mediated by the dopaminergic agonist apomorphine (0.25 mg/kg, subcutaneous, s.c.) and potentiated the effects of the antipsychotic drugs haloperidol (0.05, 0.1 mg/kg, i.p.) and clozapine (2.5, 5 mg/kg, i.p.). Conversely, TPM elicited no significant effect on the PPI disruption mediated by the NMDA receptor antagonist dizocilpine (0.05, 0.1 mg/kg, s.c.) and surprisingly antagonized the attenuation of dizocilpine-induced PPI disruption mediated by clozapine (5 mg/kg, i.p.). Our results suggest that TPM may exert diverse actions on the neural substrates of sensorimotor gating. While the pharmacological mechanisms of such effects are still elusive, our findings might contribute to shed light on some controversies on the therapeutic action of TPM, and point to this drug as a putative novel adjuvant therapy for some clusters of gating disturbances.
Exposure to cocaine induces selective behavioral and molecular adaptations. In rodents, acute cocaine induces increased locomotor activity, whereas prolonged drug exposure results in behavioral locomotor sensitization, which is thought to be a consequence of drug-induced neuroadaptive changes. Recent attention has been given to compounds activating GABA(B) receptors as potential antiaddictive therapies. In particular, the principle of allosteric positive GABA(B) receptor modulators is very promising in this respect, as positive modulators lack the sedative and muscle relaxant properties of full GABA(B) receptor agonists such as baclofen. Here, we investigated the effects of systemic application of the GABA(B) receptor-positive modulator GS39783 (N,N'-dicyclopentyl-2-methylsulfanyl-5-nitro-pyrimidine-4, 6-diamine) in animals treated with acute and chronic cocaine administration. Both GS39783 and baclofen dose dependently attenuated acute cocaine-induced hyperlocomotion. Furthermore, both compounds also efficiently blocked cocaine-induced Fos induction in the striatal complex. In chronic studies, GS39783 induced a modest attenuation of cocaine-induced locomotor sensitization. Chronic cocaine induces the accumulation of the transcription factor deltaFosB and upregulates cAMP-response-element-binding protein (CREB) and dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein of 32 kDa (DARPP-32). GS39783 blocked the induction/activation of DARPP-32 and CREB in the nucleus accumbens and dorsal striatum and partially inhibited deltaFosB accumulation in the dorsal striatum. In summary, our data provide evidence that GS39783 attenuates the acute behavioral effects of cocaine exposure in rodents and in addition prevents the induction of selective long-term adaptive changes in dopaminergic signaling pathways. Further investigation of GABA(B) receptor-positive modulation as a novel therapeutic strategy for the treatment of cocaine dependence and possibly other drugs of abuse is therefore warranted.

In functional cerebral studies, it has been established that co-registered electroencephalography (EEG) measurements and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) were complementary. However, EEG data recorded inside an MRI scanner are heavily distorted, mainly by the most prominent artifact, the cardiac pulse artifact (PA). We describe an original algorithm which yields a high-quality PA filter and demonstrates how this tool can be used to improve the quality of P300 ERP measurements during event-related fMRI (e-fMRI) experiments. EEG data were acquired in interleaved mode during e-fMRI while six healthy volunteers performed a visual odd-ball task, involving Distractors, Target and Novel stimuli, to elicit P300 components. The PA was corrected with the original algorithm. The temporal variations in the PA were evidenced using a principal component analysis (PCA), on each EEG channel. The procedure yielded several PA templates, which were regressed from the EEG data. The PA removal procedure was optimised, and then implemented to improve the measured P300 components. Regressing the most adequate PA template resulted in a high-quality reduction in spectral power at frequencies associated with the cardiac PA. More reliable P300 component measurements were obtained, evidencing higher amplitudes for Novels (9.76-11.20 microV) than for to Targets (6.3-9.09 microV) in centro-parietal and prefrontal areas. The improvement of the processing of EEG data acquired simultaneously with fMRI data provides a new tool and casts perspectives to study the functional organisation of the brain.
Kindling-induced after discharge in electroencephalograms depends on the protein associated with glutamatergic and/or GABAergic neuronal transmission. In glutamate transporter knockout (GLAST KO) mice, the kindling phenomena in GLAST KO developed more slowly while the after discharge duration (ADD) was briefer than that of the control C57BL-6J mice. These findings indicate that either the excitatory function was suppressed or the inhibitory function was enhanced in GLAST KO kindling. To explain these phenomena, we used Western blotting to evaluate the alterations in the expression of hippocampal GABA transporter proteins, and the estimation of the effect on the process of epileptogenesis. Although no alterations were observed in the GAT-3 expression, the hippocampal GAT-1 expression was significantly suppressed in comparison to that of C57BL-6J mice. A decreased GAT-1 level in the hippocampus, which might be associated with the increased extracellular GABA level, may therefore inhibit both ADD and seizure propagation as shown by the amygdaloid kindling phenomenon observed in GLAST KO mice.
Estrogens are essential for normal brain function throughout life. The source of estrogens is not only from the periphery, but local production has also been demonstrated in the CNS. Actions of estrogens involve a variety of effects, which include modulation of gene expression, regulation of neurotransmitter release, or direct inter-actions with neurotransmitter receptors. By these effects, estrogens affect neuronal excitability and thus may play an important role in seizure disorders. Although the original clinical as well as animal studies suggest that estrogens have exclusively proconvulsant properties, it has now become clear that estrogens also produce anticonvulsant effects. These opposite effects of estrogens on seizures may depend on treatment duration, latency prior to seizure testing, mode of administration, estrogen dose and hormonal status, estrogenic species, the region/neurotransmitter system involved, seizure type/model used, and sex. Animal data also suggest that estrogens, specifically beta-estradiol, have neuroprotective effects on seizure-induced hippocampal damage. Further studies are necessary to understand the role of estrogens in seizure disorders. Such under-standing is important, especially for women with epilepsy, to make qualified decisions regarding administration of contraceptives and hormonal replacement therapy as well as for the design of new therapeutic strategies for better seizure control and prevention of seizure-induced neuronal damage.
The creative reuse of existing neural components may have played a significant role in the evolutionary development of cognition. There are obvious evolutionary advantages to such redeployment, and the data presented here confirm three important empirical predictions of this account of the development of cognition: 1) A typical brain area will be used by many cognitive functions in diverse task categories, (2) evolutionarily older brain areas will be deployed in more cognitive functions, and (3) more recent cognitive functions will use more, and more widely scattered, brain areas. These findings have implications not just for our understanding of the evolutionary origins of cognitive function but also for the practice of both clinical and experimental neuroscience.

The management and surgical technique for microsurgical tumor removal of vestibular schwannomas (acoustic neuroma) with the suboccipital retrosigmoid approach and semi-sitting patient positioning is described. An emphasis is placed on the preservation of auditory and facial nerve function with a stepwise description of the technical and operative nuances, including presurgical evaluation, positioning, anesthesiological and neurophysiological aspects, approach, microsurgical techniques, and postsurgical care.


Although a considerable amount of work has addressed the short-term consequences of sucrose ingestion on a variety of morphological, physiological and hematological measures, relatively few studies have investigated these parameters following long-term sucrose intake. Results of the present experiments indicated that female rats given ad libitum access to a 10% sucrose solution for 9 months were conspicuously larger and had significantly heavier thyroid and spleen weights compared to rats offered either a restricted (20 min) daily sucrose option or control rats given only water. Rats given free access to sucrose also displayed abnormal serum levels of creatinine, sodium, phosphorus, alkaline phosphatase, alanine aminotransferase, uric acid and cholesterol which could indicate dysfunction in many organs including the kidney and liver. In the brain, however, chronic sucrose access was not associated with any discernable changes in neuronal or glial cell density within selected brain regions, but brain weight was found to be highly negatively correlated (r = - 0.97) with total sucrose intake. Finally, we report that high doses of estradiol can significantly attenuate the intake of sucrose in female rats. Together these findings demonstrate that free access to a sucrose solution for long periods can induce profound effects on rat physiology and may have important implications for the management of diet in humans.
Studies have shown that modifying dietary cholesterol may improve learning and that serum cholesterol levels can be positively correlated with cognitive performance. Rabbits fed a 0, 0.5, 1 or 2% cholesterol diet for eight weeks and 0.12 ppm copper added to their drinking water received trace and then delay classical conditioning pairing tone with corneal air puff during which movement of the nictitating membrane (NM) across the eye was monitored. We found that the level of classical conditioning and conditioning-specific reflex modification (CRM) as well as the number of beta amyloid-labeled neurons in the cortex and hippocampus were a function of the concentration of cholesterol in the diet. The data provide support for the idea that dietary cholesterol may facilitate learning and memory.
Cone rod dystrophies (CRDs) (prevalence 1/40,000) are inherited retinal dystrophies that belong to the group of pigmentary retinopathies. CRDs are characterized by retinal pigment deposits visible on fundus examination, predominantly localized to the macular region. In contrast to typical retinitis pigmentosa (RP), also called the rod cone dystrophies (RCDs) resulting from the primary loss in rod photoreceptors and later followed by the secondary loss in cone photoreceptors, CRDs reflect the opposite sequence of events. CRD is characterized by primary cone involvement, or, sometimes, by concomitant loss of both cones and rods that explains the predominant symptoms of CRDs: decreased visual acuity, color vision defects, photoaversion and decreased sensitivity in the central visual field, later followed by progressive loss in peripheral vision and night blindness. The clinical course of CRDs is generally more severe and rapid than that of RCDs, leading to earlier legal blindness and disability. At end stage, however, CRDs do not differ from RCDs. CRDs are most frequently non syndromic, but they may also be part of several syndromes, such as Bardet Biedl syndrome and Spinocerebellar Ataxia Type 7 (SCA7). Non syndromic CRDs are genetically heterogeneous (ten cloned genes and three loci have been identified so far). The four major causative genes involved in the pathogenesis of CRDs are ABCA4 (which causes Stargardt disease and also 30 to 60% of autosomal recessive CRDs), CRX and GUCY2D (which are responsible for many reported cases of autosomal dominant CRDs), and RPGR (which causes about 2/3 of X-linked RP and also an undetermined percentage of X-linked CRDs). It is likely that highly deleterious mutations in genes that otherwise cause RP or macular dystrophy may also lead to CRDs. The diagnosis of CRDs is based on clinical history, fundus examination and electroretinogram. Molecular diagnosis can be made for some genes, genetic counseling is always advised. Currently, there is no therapy that stops the evolution of the disease or restores the vision, and the visual prognosis is poor. Management aims at slowing down the degenerative process, treating the complications and helping patients to cope with the social and psychological impact of blindness.

To investigate the incidence of Parkinson's disease (PD) in Singapore, a parkinsonism-free cohort of 14,835 participants was followed-up and incident cases of PD identified through phone interviews, medical record reviews and a hospital's database. A movement disorders specialist subsequently verified the diagnosis through a medical records review. The age and sex-adjusted (US 1990 population) incidence rate was 32 per 100,000 person years for individuals aged 50 years and above. The rates differed between Chinese, Malays and Indians (p=0.03). The difference in inter-racial rates needs to be interpreted with caution in view of the small numbers. The incidence of PD in Singapore is comparable with that in Western countries.

Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease affects both motor and sensory peripheral nerves, with broad variability in its clinical and pathologic expression. The involvement of the central nervous system in this disease has been reported in the past, and on two occasions Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease was associated with myoclonic seizures. The previously reported patients with associated Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease and seizures developed a severe disease and died at a young age. This report describes a now 8-year-old male with Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 1A associated with myoclonic seizures and developmental delay. Genetic studies established for the first time the duplication of the PMP-22 gene in a patient with this unusual association, confirming the diagnosis. The patient was treated with carbamazepine, valproate, and lamotrigine, has been seizure-free for over 2 years, and was successfully weaned from his medications.
The expression of neuropeptide tyrosine (NPY) and two of its receptors (Y1- and Y2Rs) in different types of rodent dorsal root ganglion (DRG) and spinal cord neurons, and their regulation by peripheral nerve injury, have suggested a role in neuropathic pain. Here we present the spinal NPYergic system from an immunohistochemical perspective based on recent studies using two specific antibodies recognizing the Y1- and Y2Rs, respectively, as well as on data from a study on a Y1R knock-out mouse. We have, for example, defined seven different neuron populations of Y1R-expressing neurons in the rat spinal cord, representing multiple targets for spinally released NPY. The differential distribution of NPY receptors probably explains both the pro- and antinociceptive effects of NPY previously reported in the literature. One system possibly responsible for antinociception is a group of Y1R-positive, presumably glutamatergic interneurons in the superficial dorsal horn laminae. We also discuss the possibility that NPY released within DRGs can act in a paracrine fashion on NPY receptors on adjacent neurons, perhaps contributing to the so-called cross excitation, a concept advanced by Devor, Amir and collaborators. Taken together with behavioral and electrophysiological results summarized by Smith et al. in this volume, histochemical analyses have advanced the knowledge on the role of NPY in pain processing.
The vasoconstrictor neuropeptide Y (NPY) has been shown to down-regulate tyrosine hydroxylase expression in cultured adrenal chromaffin cells, which probably accounts for the higher plasma resting norepinephrine (NE) and epinephrine (E) concentrations observed in Y(1) knock-out mice (Y(1)-/-) than in wild-type mice (Y(1)+/+). The aim of this work was to study the hemodynamic response of Y(1)-/- mice to an acute stimulation of the sympathetic nervous system (cold pressor test, CPT). Plasma catecholamine concentrations were higher in Y(1)-/- mice than in wild-type animals at the end of the CPT. The CPT-induced increase in mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) and heart rate (HR) was similar in both genotypes. Independently of the genotype, females had significantly slower HR than males throughout the 15min duration of the CPT. There was no difference in the sensitivity of the baroreceptor reflex, as reflected by the change in HR divided by the concurrent change in MBP between Y(1)-/- and Y(1)+/+ mice. In conclusion, mice lacking the Y(1) receptor can maintain normal hemodynamic response to an acute activation of the sympathetic system, albeit at the expense of increased catecholamine discharge.
The interactive network of neuropeptide Y (NPY) and cohorts is necessary for integrating the hypothalamic regulation of appetite and energy expenditure with the endocrine and neuroendocrine systems on a daily basis. Genetic and environmental factors that produce an insufficiency of leptin restraint on NPY and cognate receptors deregulate the homeostasis to engender various life-threatening risk factors. Recent studies from our laboratory show that neurotherapy consisting of a single central administration of recombinant adeno-associated virus vector encoding the leptin gene can repress the hypothalamic NPY system for the lifetime of rodents. A major benefit of this stable tonic restraint is deceleration of pathophysiologic sequalae that shorten life span. These include suppression of weight gain, fat accumulation, circulating adipokines, amelioration of major symptoms of metabolic syndrome, improved reproduction and bone health. Thus, sustained repression of NPY signaling in the hypothalamus by leptin transgene expression can improve the quality of life and extend longevity.
In the present work we investigated the neuroprotective role of neuropeptide Y (NPY) after an excitotoxic insult in rat organotypic hippocampal slice cultures. Exposure of 2 week-old rat hippocampal slice cultures to 12muM kainate (KA) for 24h induced neuronal death in dentate gyrus (DG) granular cell layer, CA1 and CA3 pyramidal cell layers, as quantified by cellular propidium iodide (PI) uptake. The activation of Y(1) or Y(2) receptors 30min after starting the exposure to the excitotoxic insult with kainate resulted in neuroprotection by reducing the PI uptake in DG, CA1 and CA3 cell layers. The use of Y(1) or Y(2) receptors antagonists, BIBP3226 (1muM) or BIIE0246 (1muM), resulted in the loss of the neuroprotection induced by the activation of Y(1) or Y(2) receptors, respectively, in all hippocampal subfields. Taken together these results suggest that activation of NPY Y(1) or Y(2) receptors activates neuroprotective pathways that are able to rescue neurons from excitotoxic cell death.
The gut-derived hormone peptide YY (PYY) is most commonly known for its effect on satiety, decreasing food intake and body weight in animals and humans. However, PYY is also involved in a wide range of digestive functions including regulating insulin secretion and glucose homeostasis. Over the last few years, there have been several interesting clinical and animal studies investigating the role of PYY in glucose homeostasis. This review aims to present an updated summary of findings over the last few decades highlighting the role of PYY in regulating insulin output and insulin sensitivity, and the potential mechanisms involved.
The brain neuropeptide Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is an important modulator of a number of centrally mediated processes including feeding, anxiety-like behaviors, blood pressure and others. NPY produces its effects through at least four functional G-protein coupled receptors termed Y1, Y2, Y4 and Y5. In the brain, the Y1 and Y2 receptor subtypes are the predominant receptor population. To better understand the roles of NPY, genetically modified mice lacking NPY were produced but lacked the expected phenotypes. These mice have previously been reported to have a marked increase in Y2 receptor binding. In the present study, we found an upregulation of both Y1 and Y2 receptor binding and extended these findings to the female. These increases were as large as 10-fold or greater in many brain regions. To assess functional coupling of the receptors, we performed agonist-induced [(35)S]GTPgammaS autoradiography. In the mouse brain, the Y1/Y4/Y5 agonist Leu(31),Pro(34)-NPY increased [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding with a regional distribution consistent with that produced when labeling adjacent sections with [(125)I]-Leu(31),Pro(34)-PYY. In a few brain regions, minor increases were noted in the agonist-induced binding when comparing knock out mice to wild type. The Y2 agonist C2-NPY stimulated [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding in numerous brain areas with a regional distribution similar to the binding observed with [(125)I]-PYY3-36. Again, no major increases were noted in the functional activation of Y2 receptors between knock out and wild type mice. Therefore, the increased Y1 and Y2 binding observed in the NPY knock out mice does not represent an increase in NPY receptor mediated signaling and is likely due to an increase in spare (uncoupled) receptors.
Activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal gland (HPA) axis can modulate the immune system. Cytokines and neuropeptide Y (NPY) are potent regulators of the HPA axis and are both produced by the adrenal medulla. The cytokine interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) belongs to the interleukin-1 family along with interleukin-1alpha and the interleukin receptor antagonist (IL-1ra). The aim of the present study was to determine the interaction between NPY and IL-1beta in catecholamine (norepinephrine, NE and epinephrine, EP) release from mouse chromaffin cells in culture. We found that IL-1beta increased the constitutive release of NPY, NE and EP from mouse chromaffin cells. This IL-1beta stimulatory effect was blocked by IL-1ra. The immunoneutralization of NPY and the use of the NPY Y(1) receptor antagonist (BIBP 3226) inhibited the stimulatory effect of IL-1beta on catecholamine release from these cells. The present work shows that IL-1beta induces catecholamine release, and in turn this peptide will induce an additional increase in catecholamine release acting through the Y(1) receptor. This work suggests that NPY is involved in the regulatory loop between the immune and the adrenal system in some pathophysiological conditions where plasmatic IL-1beta increases, like in sepsis, rheumatoid arthritis, stress or hypertension.
The abundantly expressed neuropeptide Y (NPY) has potent effects on feeding, body weight, and blood pressure, and exhibits important functions in various behavioral domains such as motor activity and anxiety. The potent neurotransmitter exerts its biological effects through at least five G-protein coupled receptors termed Y(1), Y(2), Y(4), Y(5), and y(6). The behavioral profile of NPY function has been extensively studied using traditional pharmacological and classic genetic animal models. Based on these studies, variations in the profile of NPY and its receptors have been found. To limit the variability and inconsistencies in the behavioral profile of NPY and to clarify its effects on certain domains in further detail, it is important to design a rational standardized strategy for behavioral testing, using a complement of different well-established and reproducible tests. This strategy can minimize the risk that false positive or false negative results lead to a contradictory and inconsistent behavioral characterization of NPY function. Ideally, such screening should be composed of an initial monitoring of general health, sensory functions, and motor abilities, before specific behavioral domains such as anxiety or aggression are investigated using a multi-tiered phenotyping approach. In this review, we will focus on a brief description of the latest insights into the behavioral profile of NPY in the selective lesser investigated domains such as aggression and depression-schizophrenia-related behaviors. We will combine this information with possible strategies to evaluate the different specific phenotypes in more detail.
Gene therapy represents an innovative and promising alternative for the treatment of epileptic patients who are resistant to conventional antiepileptic drugs. Among the various approaches for the application of gene therapy in the treatment of CNS disorders, recombinant viral vectors have been most widely used so far. Several gene targets could be used to correct the compromized balance between inhibitory and excitatory transmission in epilepsy. Transduction of neuropeptide genes such as galanin and neuropeptide Y (NPY) in specific brain areas in experimental models of seizures resulted in significant anticonvulsant effects. In particular, the long-lasting NPY over-expression obtained in the rat hippocampus using intracerebral application of recombinant adeno-associated viral (AAV) vectors reduced the generalization of seizures from their site of onset, delayed acquisition of fully kindled seizures and afforded neuroprotection. These results establish a proof-of-principle for the applicability of AAV-NPY vectors for the inhibition of seizures in epilepsy. Additional investigations are required to demonstrate a therapeutic role of gene therapy in chronic models of seizures and to address in more detail safety concerns and possible side-effects.
We review previously published data, and present some new data, indicating that spinal application of neuropeptide Y (NPY) reduces behavioral and neurophysiological signs of acute and chronic pain. In models of acute pain, early behavioral studies showed that spinal (intrathecal) administration of NPY and Y2 receptor agonists decrease thermal nociception. Subsequent neurophysiological studies indicated that Y2-mediated inhibition of excitatory neurotransmitter release from primary afferent terminals in the substantia gelatinosa may contribute to the antinociceptive actions of NPY. As with acute pain, NPY reduced behavioral signs of inflammatory pain such as mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia; however, receptor antagonist studies indicate an important contribution of spinal Y1 rather than Y2 receptors. Interestingly, Y1 agonists suppress inhibitory synaptic events in dorsal horn neurons (indeed, well known mu-opioid analgesic drugs produce similar cellular actions). To resolve the behavioral and neurophysiological data, we propose that NPY/Y1 inhibits the spinal release of inhibitory neurotransmitters (GABA and glycine) onto inhibitory neurons, e.g. disinhibition of pain inhibition, resulting in hyporeflexia. The above mechanisms of Y1- and Y2-mediated analgesia may also operate in the setting of peripheral nerve injury, and new data indicate that NPY dose-dependently inhibits behavioral signs of neuropathic pain. Indeed, neurophysiological studies indicate that Y2-mediated inhibition of Ca(2+) channel currents in dorsal root ganglion neurons is actually increased after axotomy. We conclude that spinal delivery of Y1 agonists may be of use in the treatment of chronic inflammatory pain, and that the use of Y1 and Y2 agonists in neuropathic pain warrants further consideration.
Individuals differ along a continuum of preference for diurnal activity level, known as Morningness-Eveningness. Some evidence suggests that an Eveningness orientation (i.e., preference for later rise and bed times) is weakly associated with higher cognitive ability, but no studies have examined this relationship using clinically accepted, psychometrically valid measures of cognitive ability. The present study examined the correlation between Morningness-Eveningness with scores on the Wechsler Abbreviated Scale of Intelligence (WASI) of 54 healthy volunteers. Lower Morningness (i.e., Greater Eveningness) orientation was correlated (r = -.23) with higher Verbal IQ for the entire sample. When the data were examined separately by sex, the correlation between Morningness-Eveningness and Verbal IQ was significant for women (r = -.44) but not for men (r = -.09).
It is now known that brain development continues into adolescence and early adulthood and is highly influenced by experience-dependent adaptive plasticity during this time. Behaviorally, this period is also characterized by increased novelty seeking and risk-taking. This heightened plasticity appears to be important in shaping behaviors and cognitive processes that contribute to proper development of an adult phenotype. However, increasing evidence has linked these same experience-dependent learning mechanisms with processes that underlie drug addiction. As such, the adolescent brain appears to be particularly susceptible to experience-dependent learning processes associated with consumption of alcohol and addictive drugs. At the level of the synapse, homeostatic changes during ethanol consumption are invoked to counter the destabilizing effects of ethanol on neural networks. This homeostatic response may be especially pronounced in the adolescent and young adult brain due to its heightened capacity to undergo experience-dependent changes, and appears to involve increased synaptic targeting of NMDA receptors. Interestingly, recent work from our lab also indicates that the enhanced synaptic localization of NMDA receptors promotes increases in the size of dendritic spines. This increase may represent a structural-based mechanism that supports the formation and stabilization of maladapted synaptic connections that, in a sense, &quot;fix&quot; the addictive behavior in the adolescent and young adult brain.
The abuse of anabolic-androgenic steroids (AS) is a growing problem; however, the effects and mechanisms underlying their addictive effects are not well understood. Research findings regarding androgen abuse in people and hedonic effects of androgens in laboratory rats are reviewed. Androgens, like other steroids, can have traditional actions via cognate intracellular steroid receptors, as well as other substrates. Our recent results indicate that testosterone (T) metabolites may have actions in part via gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)(A)/benzodiazepine receptor complexes (GBRs) and/or dopaminergic neurons in the nucleus accumbens, to mediate T's positive hedonic states. This may provide the basis for positive reinforcing effects of androgen seeking and use behavior. Following a comprehensive review of the background literature, our findings are presented that have explored the extent to which metabolites of T mediate euphorogenic effects of androgens by acting in the nucleus accumbens. Then results regarding whether GBRs are necessary substrates for androgens' positive hedonic effects are discussed. Lastly, research that addresses if dopaminergic neurons in the nucleus accumbens are necessary for these effects of androgens are discussed. This review provides a comprehensive examination of the hedonic properties and abuse/addiction potential of androgens and the putative mechanisms underlying these effects.
Pharmacological modulation of the endocannabinoid system is a novel but poorly explored field for potential therapy. Early maternal deprivation represents an animal model for specific aspects of neuropsychiatric disorders. This study explored whether a pharmacological manipulation of the endocannabinoid system at adolescence may restore altered phenotypes resulting from early maternal deprivation. Wistar male rats, maternally deprived for 24 h on postnatal day (PND) 9, were administered the fatty-acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) inhibitor URB597 (0, 0.1 or 0.5 mg/kg/day) for six days during adolescence (PND 31-43), while tested in the intolerance-to-delay task. Deprived (DEP) adolescent rats showed a trend for higher impulsivity levels and an increased locomotor response to novelty when compared to non-deprived (NDEP) controls. The low dose of URB597 effectively decreased impulsive behaviour specifically in DEP subjects. Moreover, long-term metabolic brain changes, induced by drug treatment during adolescence, were detected in DEP animals using proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy ((1)H MRS). Significant changes were only found within the hippocampus: N-acetyl-aspartate and total creatine were up-regulated by the low dose; glutamate and glutamate plus glutamine were conversely down-regulated by the higher dose. In summary, administration of URB597 during adolescence increased self-control behaviour and produced enduring brain biochemical modifications, in a model for neuropsychiatric disorders.
Progesterone (pregn-4-ene-3,20-dione; P) and its metabolite 5alpha-pregnan-3alpha-ol-20-one (3alpha,5alpha-THP) are secreted by ovaries, adrenals, and glial cells. 3alpha,5alpha-THP in the midbrain ventral tegmental area mediates sexual receptivity of rodents through its actions at GABA(A), NMDA, and/or D(1) receptors. The extent to which 3alpha,5alpha-THP may influence anti-anxiety/anti-stress effects, conditioning and/or reward through these substrates and/or by altering hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis function is discussed. Biosynthesis of 3alpha,5alpha-THP occurs in responses to mating and may underlie some of the rewarding aspects of sexual behavior. Recent findings from our laboratory which demonstrate that progestins can enhance approach to novel stimuli, conditioning, and reinforcement are reviewed. How progestins' effects on these processes may underlie response to drugs of abuse is considered and new findings which demonstrate interactions between progestins and cocaine are presented.
Substance use disorder comorbidity in schizophrenia may reflect dysfunctional cortical-striatal-limbic circuitry commonly involved in the addiction process and the pathogenesis of schizophrenia. Rats with neonatal ventral hippocampal lesions (NVHL) demonstrate post-adolescent onset of schizophrenia-like symptoms and increased addiction vulnerability in paradigms using cocaine in adulthood. Here, we investigated response profiles of young adult NVHL vs. SHAM rats to ethanol, an addictive drug with many psychopharmacological effects divergent from those of cocaine, in a locomotor sensitization paradigm. Over 15 days of daily injections of saline, low (0.15 g/kg) or high (1.0 g/kg) doses of ethanol, NVHL rats showed stimulatory effects at the low dose compared to saline and high-dose conditions, while SHAM rats showed expected patterns of dose-dependent suppression of locomotor activity. In a challenge session 2 weeks later in which a moderate dose (0.25 g/kg) of ethanol was given to all subjects, NVHL rats with history of prior ethanol exposure showed greater locomotor activity consistent with installment of alcohol-induced sensitization not present in SHAMs. These findings provide further evidence of enhanced short- and long-term responsivity to abused drugs in a neurodevelopmental model of schizophrenia, and may reflect potentiation of common mechanisms of addiction shared between pharmacologically diverse addictive drugs.
The hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis is one of the physiological systems involved in coping with stressors. There are functional shifts in the HPA axis and its regulation by sex hormones over the lifespan that allow the animal to meet the challenges of the internal and external environment that are specific to each stage of development. Sex differences in HPA function emerge over adolescence, a phenomenon reflecting the concomitant initiation of regulatory effects of sex hormones. The focus of this review is recent research on differences between adolescents and adults in HPA function and the enduring effects of exposure to stressors in adolescence. During adolescence, HPA function is characterized by a prolonged activation in response to stressors compared to adulthood, which may render ongoing development of the brain vulnerable. Although research has been scarce, there is a growing evidence that exposure to stressors in adolescence may alter behavioural responses to drugs and cognitive performance in adulthood. However, the effects reported appear to be stressor-specific and sex-specific. Such research may contribute toward understanding the increased risk for drug abuse and psychopathology that occurs over adolescence in people.
Interleukin-1 receptor antagonist concentration is upregulated in the plasma of patients with obese related disease, and its synthesis is under genetic control. We tested the hypothesis that the polymorphism in the interleukin-1 receptor antagonist gene second intron might be associated with normal weight obese syndrome. The polymorphism of intron 2 in the interleukin-1 receptor antagonist gene, containing a variable numbers of a tandem repeat (VNTR), and interleukin-1alpha and beta plasma levels were evaluated in 110 Caucasian Italian women, divided in three groups: non-obese, normal weight obese and preobese-obese. The allele 1 frequency was not significantly different in the three groups. The alleles 3 and 4 were not observed in any group. The allele 2 frequency in normal weight obese woman (12.5%) and preobese-obese (17.5%) groups were significantly different in comparison with the non-obese group (6.7%). The allele 5 was observed exclusively in non-obese and normal weight obese subjects (13.3 and 7.5%, respectively). In normal weight obese women, plasma concentrations of interleukin-1 alpha and interleukin-1 beta were significantly higher than in non-obese. The allele 2 was observed in normal weight obese as well as a significant association between the increase of interleukin-1 beta plasma amount and the allele 2 carrier. Our findings suggest that the allele 2 might be an important high-risk genetic marker for normal weight obese syndrome and obesity related diseases.
The neurotransmitter dopamine (DA) has a long association with normal functions such as motor control, cognition, and reward, as well as a number of syndromes including drug abuse, schizophrenia, and Parkinson's disease. Studies show that serotonin (5-HT) acts through several 5-HT receptors in the brain to modulate DA neurons in all 3 major dopaminergic pathways. There are at least fourteen 5-HT receptor subtypes, many of which have been shown to play some role in mediating 5-HT/DA interactions. Several subtypes, including the 5-HT1A, 5-HT1B, 5-HT2A, 5-HT3 and 5-HT4 receptors, act to facilitate DA release, while the 5-HT2C receptor mediates an inhibitory effect of 5-HT on DA release. Most 5-HT receptor subtypes only modulate DA release when 5-HT and/or DA neurons are stimulated, but the 5-HT2C receptor, characterized by high levels of constitutive activity, inhibits tonic as well as evoked DA release. This review summarizes the anatomical evidence for the presence of each 5-HT receptor subtype in dopaminergic regions of the brain and the neuropharmacological evidence demonstrating regulation of each DA pathway. The relevance of 5-HT receptor modulation of DA systems to the development of therapeutics used to treat schizophrenia, depression, and drug abuse is discussed. Lastly, areas are highlighted in which future research would be maximally beneficial to the treatment of these disorders.

In this study we tested the ability of monkey amniotic epithelial cells (MAEC) to take up and decarboxylate l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (l-DOPA) by incubating the cells in buffer containing l-DOPA under different experimental conditions followed by assaying cellular dopamine (DA) content using high performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection. Cellular contents of DA were significantly increased in a time- and l-DOPA-concentration-dependent manner, suggesting the uptake of l-DOPA by MAEC and indicating the presence of aromatic l-amino acid decarboxylase (AADC). This was confirmed by the decreased DA content in the presence of benserazide, an AADC inhibitor. Neither d-DOPA nor DA uptake blockers such as mazindol and GBR 12935 significantly affected l-DOPA uptake and hence DA levels. Further, synthesis of DA from l-DOPA was decreased in the presence of the amino acids tyrosine, phenylalanine and tryptophan, whereas the amino acids glycine and proline were without any significant effect. These findings suggest that MAEC have the capacity to selectively take up and decarboxylate l-DOPA with subsequent production of DA.
Haptic perception is an active process that provides an awareness of objects that are encountered as an organism scans its environment. In contrast to the sensation of touch produced by contact with an object, the perception of object location arises from the interpretation of tactile signals in the context of the changing configuration of the body. A discrete sensory representation and a low number of degrees of freedom in the motor plant make the ethologically prominent rat vibrissa system an ideal model for the study of the neuronal computations that underlie this perception. We found that rats with only a single vibrissa can combine touch and movement to distinguish the location of objects that vary in angle along the sweep of vibrissa motion. The patterns of this motion and of the corresponding behavioral responses show that rats can scan potential locations and decide which location contains a stimulus within 150 ms. This interval is consistent with just one to two whisk cycles and provides constraints on the underlying perceptual computation. Our data argue against strategies that do not require the integration of sensory and motor modalities. The ability to judge angular position with a single vibrissa thus connects previously described, motion-sensitive neurophysiological signals to perception in the behaving animal.





Although a dysfunctional prefrontal-striatal system is presupposed in obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), this is not sustained by neuropsychological studies. The aim of this study was twofold: (i) to investigate the cognitive deficits in patients with OCD compared to matched healthy controls; and (ii) to relate cognitive performance to clinical characteristics in patients with OCD. In this study, 39 patients with primary OCD according to Diagnostic and Statistical Manual, fourth edition criteria were compared to 26 healthy control subjects on a battery measuring verbal memory and executive functioning. Patients with OCD showed slowed learning on the verbal memory task and made more errors on the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test. Errors were failures to maintain set, which were related to severity of OCD symptomatology. The results show that patients with OCD have cognitive deficits. The authors hypothesize that these deficits may be interpreted by attentional deficits caused by a dysfunctional anterior cingulate cortex.
Episodic memory and semantic memory interact very closely. In particular, episodic memory encoding (EE) tends to elicit semantic memory retrieval (SR), and vice versa. Thus, similar activations for EE and SR in functional neuroimaging studies may reflect shared memory processes, or they may reflect the fact that EE and SR are usually confounded. To address this issue, we used a factorial functional magnetic resonance imaging approach to disentangle the neural correlates of EE and SR. Within the left temporal lobe, the hippocampus was associated with successful EE, whereas a posterior lateral region was associated with successful SR. Within the left inferior prefrontal cortex, a posterior region was involved in SR, a mid region was involved in both SR and EE, and an anterior region was involved in EE, but only when SR was also high. Thus, the neural correlates of EE and SR are dissociable but interact in specific brain regions.






This study examines the causes for the within-language Stroop superiority effect (WLSSE; larger Stroop effect for words appearing in the response language than in another language). Participants named in their first language (L1) or second language (L2) the colour of colour-words or colour-associated words appearing in L1 or in L2. The WLSSE was limited for colour-words. It was concluded that for colour-words, the cause for the WLSSE is that words appearing in the within-language condition belong to the response set, whereas words in the between-language condition do not. This finding challenges previous suggestions that a nonrelevant stimulus language can be suppressed.

This review presents a novel experimental approach for investigating the chronic actions of short-lived peptides in specific sites of the brain. This method combines the advantages of three different techniques: liposome encapsulation, site-specific microinjection and telemetry. First, liposomes can be designed to remain located at the injection site for a long period of time, where they protect encapsulated peptide from rapid degradation and act as a sustained-release system. Secondly, microinjection allows the administration of peptides in specific sites of the brain with minimal side effects. Finally, using telemetry, it is possible to register physiological parameters and their circadian variations in undisturbed free-moving animals for several days. Angiotensin-(1-7) and angiotensin II were used as peptide models, in order to validate the proposed method. Following the unilateral microinjection of the liposome-encapsulated peptides into the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) of Wistar rats, long-lasting cardiovascular actions were elicited, for several days. Importantly, new physiological actions of angiotensin-(1-7) at the RVLM were unmasked: modulation of the circadian rhythms of blood pressure and heart rate. It is felt that this method can be applied to a wide variety of short-lived bioactive peptides and should encounter numerous applications in the field of neurosciences.
Proper gonadal function requires coordinated (feedback) interactions between the gonads, adenohypophysis, and brain: the gonads elaborate sex steroids (progestins, androgens, and estrogens) and proteins (inhibin-activin family) during gamete development. In both sexes, the brain-pituitary gonadotrophin-regulating interaction is coordinated by estradiol through its opposing actions on pituitary gonadotrophs (sensitization of the response to gonadotrophin-releasing hormone [GnRH]) versus hypothalamic neurons (inhibition of GnRH secretion). This dynamic tension between the gonadotrophs and the GnRH cells in the brain regulates the circulating gonadotrophins and is termed reciprocal/negative feedback. In females, reciprocal/negative feedback dominates approximately 90% of the ovarian cycle. In a spectacular exception, the dynamic tension is broken during the surge of circulating estrogen that marks follicle and oocyte(s) maturation. The cause is an estradiol-induced disinhibition of the GnRH neurons that releases GnRH secretion to the highly sensitized pituitary gonadotrophs that in turn release the gonadotrophin surge (the estrogen-induced gonadotrophin surge [EIGS], also known as positive feedback). Studies during the past 4 decades have shown this disinhibition to result from estrogen-induced synaptic plasticity (EISP), including a reversible approximately 50% loss in arcuate nucleus synapses. The disinhibited GnRH secretion occurs during maximal gonadotroph sensitization and results in the EIGS. Specific immunoneutralization of estradiol blocks the EISP and EIGS. The EISP is accompanied by increases in insulinlike growth factor 1, polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule, and ezrin, 3 proteins that the authors believe are the links between estrogen-induced astroglial extension and the EISP that releases GnRH secretion at the moment of maximal sensitization of the pituitary gonadotrophs. The result is the paradoxical surge of gonadotrophins at the peak of ovarian estrogen secretion and the triggering of ovulation. This enhanced understanding of the mechanics of gonadotrophin control clarifies elements of the involved feedback loops and opens the way to a better understanding of the neurobiology of reproduction.
Intrauterine implantation of fertilized ova in inseminated females is sensitive to minute levels of natural estrogens. Bisphenol-A (BPA), a widely used chemical in the production of polycarbonate plastics and epoxy resins, can be estrogenic. Here we administered BPA during the period of implantation to determine levels of exposure required to terminate pregnancy in mice. Varied doses were given through either injection or ingestion. Subcutaneous injections during days 1-4 of gestation significantly reduced litter size at 3.375 mg/day and substantially reduced the proportion of females that were parturient at 10.125 mg/day. Uterine implantation sites were also significantly reduced in females sacrificed at day 6 after receiving 10.125 mg/day. Exposure to lower doses was without significant effect. When inseminated females' diets were supplemented on days 1-5 with peanut butter contaminated by 0.11-9.0% BPA, litter size and percent parturient were not affected. However, when the animals' diet was exclusively comprised of a mixture of BPA, peanut butter, and powdered chow during days 1-4, an average daily intake of 68.84 mg BPA terminated all pregnancies. No significant effects at lower doses of BPA were seen in number of births or other measures through either mode of administration.


We report a patient with syrinx formation secondary to cervical epidural abscess, cervical spondylitis, cervical discitis and meningitis. A 53-year-old woman developed sudden fever, headache and neck pain. On admission, neurological evaluation showed limitation of cervical motion, meningeal irritation, and exaggerated muscle stretch reflexes in all four extremities. Cerebrospinal fluid cell count was 832/mm3 and protein was 771 mg/dl. Bacterial culture of the cerebrospinal fluid showed Staphylococcus aureus. A cervical MRI scan with Gd-enhancement revealed focal high intensity signal in the T2-weighted and FLAIR images, at the anterior meninges of the C3-8 segments, the vertebral bodies of C5-6 and the intervertebral disks of C5-6 segment. Her diagnosis was cervical epidural abscess, cervical spondylitis, cervical discitis and meningitis. Antibiotics and steroids improved her symptoms. Six weeks after the onset of symptoms, a cervical MRI scan showed narrowing and synarthrosis in the intervertebral space between C5 and C6. MRI and myelo CT scans demonstrated a newly-formed syrinx from C3-C 7. This was an interesting case of syrinx formation secondary to cervical epidural abscess.
Previous research suggests that learning an alphabetic written language influences aspects of the auditory-verbal language system. In this study, we examined whether literacy influences the notion of words as phonological units independent of lexical semantics in literate and illiterate subjects. Subjects had to decide which item in a word- or pseudoword pair was phonologically longest. By manipulating the relationship between referent size and phonological length in three word conditions (congruent, neutral, and incongruent) we could examine to what extent subjects focused on form rather than meaning of the stimulus material. Moreover, the pseudoword condition allowed us to examine global phonological awareness independent of lexical semantics. The results showed that literate performed significantly better than illiterate subjects in the neutral and incongruent word conditions as well as in the pseudoword condition. The illiterate group performed least well in the incongruent condition and significantly better in the pseudoword condition compared to the neutral and incongruent word conditions and suggest that performance on phonological word length comparisons is dependent on literacy. In addition, the results show that the illiterate participants are able to perceive and process phonological length, albeit less well than the literate subjects, when no semantic interference is present. In conclusion, the present results confirm and extend the finding that illiterate subjects are biased towards semantic-conceptual-pragmatic types of cognitive processing.

Abnormalities in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis (HPA) have been implicated in psychosis. To our knowledge, no prior study has measured pituitary volume in a neuroleptic-nave schizophrenic population. Herein, we present data exploring the volumetric differences in a sample of antipsychotic-nave patients with a DSM-IV diagnosis of schizophrenia versus appropriately matched healthy controls. Pituitary volumes were measured in 51 patients with schizophrenia (36 males, 15 females, mean age+/-S.D.: 25.2+/-7.4 years) and 55 healthy controls (30 males, 25 females; mean age+/-S.D.: 25.2+/-6.6 years) Measurements were conducted on 1.5 mm thick T1-weighted coronal images from a 1.5T scanner by two trained raters. Patients with schizophrenia had significantly smaller pituitary volumes than healthy control subjects (mean volume+/-S.D.=0.58+/-0.14 cm(3) and 0.66+/-0.17 cm(3) respectively; ANCOVA (using intracranial volume, gender and age as covariates), F=6.81, df=1, 101; p=0.01). These findings provide new evidence of a smaller pituitary volume in neuroleptic-nave patients with schizophrenia. The observed alterations in pituitary volume are consistent with neuroendocrine studies that have reported abnormalities in the HPA axis in psychosis. Similar volume reductions have been seen in other neuropsychiatric populations and may cut across diagnostic boundaries.

Adult neurogenesis is one of the most rapidly growing areas in neuroscience research and there is great interest in its potential role in the pathophysiology of psychiatric illness. In parallel with early development, adult neurogenesis occurs through the proliferation of precursor cells which migrate to specific regions and differentiate into neurons with characteristics indistinguishable from existing mature neurons. These findings have led to the re-definition of the concept of network plasticity in the adult brain, to include the formation of new neurons as well as new connections. This review examines the idea that adult neurogenesis may be disturbed in schizophrenia. We discuss evidence for abnormal mechanisms of neurogenesis and expression of developmental genes in schizophrenia, the influence of antipsychotic drugs on neurogenesis and the role of candidate schizophrenia susceptibility genes in adult neurogenesis. The recent discovery of molecular markers transiently expressed in newborn neurons within adult neurogenic brain regions could be used to probe whether neurogenesis is disturbed in schizophrenia. Adult neurogenesis could also be used as a unique tool for investigating genes involved in early brain development using post-mortem brains. This is particularly relevant for brain disorders with developmental origins such as schizophrenia.
Deficits in emotional prosodic processing, the expression of emotions in voice, have been widely reported in patients with schizophrenia, not only in comprehending emotional prosody but also expressing it. Given that prosodic cues are important in memory for voice and speaker identity, Cutting has proposed that prosodic deficits may contribute to the misattribution that appears to occur in auditory hallucinations in psychosis. The present study compared hallucinating patients with schizophrenia, non-hallucinating patients and normal controls on an emotional prosodic processing task. It was hypothesised that hallucinators would demonstrate greater deficits in emotional prosodic processing than non-hallucinators and normal controls. Participants were 67 patients with a diagnosis of schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder (hallucinating=38, non-hallucinating=29) and 31 normal controls. The prosodic processing task used in this study comprised a series of semantically neutral sentences expressed in happy, sad and neutral voices which were rated on a 7-point Likert scale from sad (-3) through neutral (0) to happy (+3). Significant deficits in the prosodic processing tasks were found in hallucinating patients compared to non-hallucinating patients and normal controls. No significant differences were observed between non-hallucinating patients and normal controls. In the present study, patients experiencing auditory hallucinations were not as successful in recognising and using prosodic cues as the non-hallucinating patients. These results are consistent with Cutting's hypothesis, that prosodic dysfunction may mediate the misattribution of auditory hallucinations.
Human immunodeficiency virus-type 1 (HIV-l) infection is the most common preventable and treatable cause of neurocognitive impairment in individuals under age 50 years. Although the incidence of HIV-associated dementia has decreased over the past few years due to combination antiretroviral therapy (cART), the prevalence of less severe HIV-associated neurocognitive impairment continues to increase. HIV-associated neurocognitive impairment is a significant burden to persons living with HIV infection, caregivers, and the health care system. Neurocognitive changes associated with HIV are typically subcortical, consisting of the triad of cognitive, behavior, and motor dysfunction. HIV-associated dementia and HIV-associated neurocognitive impairment are clinical diagnostic syndromes with neuropsychological performance testing, neuroimaging, and cerebral spinal fluid studies providing additional information. With the advent of more effective cART, the incidence of fatal opportunistic complications has dramatically diminished. Accordingly, the present review focuses on primary HIV-induced disease of the central nervous system, rather than its opportunistic complications.
Idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus (INPH) is a treatable neurological disorder in older adults involving disturbances of gait/balance, control of micturition, and/or cognition in combination with enlargement of the cerebral ventricles. Diagnosis can be challenging due to its varied presentation and overlap with other disorders common in the elderly. Evidence-based consensus guidelines for diagnosis and treatment of INPH have been created that can assist in clinical management. Diagnosis requires clinical documentation of one or more of the characteristic symptoms of INPH in combination with a brain imaging study demonstrating nonobstructive ventricular enlargement disproportionate to cerebral atrophy. Gait and balance disturbances are the most common presenting findings in INPH and may occur alone or together with cognitive and urinary symptoms. Adjunct tests, particularly those involving transient removal of cerebrospinal fluid via lumbar puncture or lumbar drain, can serve the dual purpose of adding to diagnostic certainty and assisting in prognostication about response to treatment. Prognostication is important because neurosurgical treatment by placement of a ventricular shunt, while effective, carries the risk of potentially significant morbidity. Outcome of shunting in INPH is most often successful when patients are accurately diagnosed, suitably evaluated for surgical candidacy, and managed carefully throughout the preoperative, surgical, and postoperative periods.
Synucleinopathies, with and without dementia, encompass a wide range of diseases including Parkinson's disease, multiple system atrophy, rapid eye movement (REM) sleep behavior disorder, and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). DLB is a neurodegenerative disorder resulting in slowly progressive and unrelenting dementia until death. Prevalence studies suggest that it is the second most common dementing illness in the elderly. The neuropathologic findings of DLB show a wide anatomic range. Lewy bodies and Lewy-related pathology are found from the brain stem to the cortex and, in many cases, associated with concurrent Alzheimer's disease pathology. A recent international consortium on DLB has resulted in revised criteria for the clinical and pathological diagnosis of DLB incorporating new information about the core clinical features and improved methods for their assessment. The presentation of DLB is typically one of cortical and subcortical cognitive impairments, with worse visuospatial and executive dysfunction than Alzheimer's disease. There may be relative sparing of memory especially in the early stages. Core clinical features of DLB include fluctuating attention, recurrent visual hallucinations, and parkinsonism. Suggestive features include REM sleep behavior disorder, severe neuroleptic sensitivity, and low dopamine transporter uptake in the basal ganglia on functional neuroimaging. Additional supportive features that commonly occur in DLB, but with lower specificity, include repeated falls and syncope, transient, unexplained loss of consciousness, severe autonomic dysfunction, hallucinations in other modalities, systematized delusions, depression, relative preservation of medial temporal lobe structures on structural neuroimaging, reduced occipital activity on functional neuroimaging, prominent slow wave activity on electroencephalogram, and low uptake myocardial scintigraphy. Management of DLB includes pharmacological and nonpharmacological interventions for its cognitive, neuropsychiatric, motor, and sleep disturbances.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia in the elderly. Currently, 4.5 million individuals in the United States are estimated to have AD, and that number is projected to increase to at least 14 million by the year 2050. AD is a major cause of disability and mortality, and its impact on health care costs, including direct and indirect medical and social service costs, is estimated to be greater than $100 billion per year. AD typically presents with an insidious decline in memory that progresses to affect language, visuospatial perception, calculations, and executive functioning. Behavioral and psychiatric symptoms are also frequent in AD. Diagnosis is determined clinically, as there is currently no laboratory test to confirm AD in life. The neuropathologic hallmarks of AD are neuritic plaques and neurofibrillary tangles. Currently available medical therapies have demonstrated modest benefits but likely do not alter disease progression. Caregivers play a large role in managing the patient and should be encouraged to seek out adult day care centers, home health services, respite care, and additional social support.
Neuropsychological studies have shown that there are several prominent differences in the patterns of cognitive deficits that occur in neurodegenerative disorders that have their primary etiology in either cortical or subcortical brain dysfunction. Quantitative and qualitative differences are apparent across many cognitive domains, including memory (in all its aspects), attention, executive functions, language and semantic knowledge, and visuospatial abilities. These distinct patterns of deficits have been broadly characterized as forming cortical and subcortical dementia syndromes. Differentiating between cortical and subcortical dementia provides a heuristically useful model for understanding brain-behavior relationships in neurodegenerative diseases and may improve the ability to clinically distinguish among various dementing disorders.
Although very rare, cases of cauda equina tumours migrating several levels have been known to occur. We report two cases of cauda equina schwannomas which migrated from its primary site, one caudally and the other one rostrally as confirmed by magnetic resonance imaging perioperatively. The first patient was a 27-year-old man and the second a 41-year-old man; both presented with back pain. This report aims to remind clinicians that certain tumours attached to the roots in the lumbar spinal canal may migrate.
Reconstruction of the anterior skull base must be secure and watertight. Failure to achieve this places the patient at risk of the development of cerebral sepsis. We have developed the technique of endonasal duraplasty and have achieved a 90% long-term success rate. In this article we described the key elements of our technique starting with radiographic and fluorescein localization of a skull base defect. The main steps in reconstruction and materials used are detailed, together with modifications of our technique for certain difficult situations and tips for success. Attention is drawn to potential pitfalls that have been identified over 25 years of clinical practice.
Neural stem cells cultured with fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF2)/epidermal growth factor (EGF) generate clonal expansions called neurospheres (NS), which are widely used for therapy in animal models. However, their cellular composition is still poorly defined. Here, we report that NS derived from several embryonic and adult central nervous system (CNS) regions are composed mainly of remarkable cells coexpressing radial glia markers (BLBP, RC2, GLAST), oligodendrogenic/neurogenic factors (Mash1, Olig2, Nkx2.2), and markers that in vivo are typical of the oligodendrocyte lineage (NG2, A2B5, PDGFR-alpha). On NS differentiation, the latter remain mostly expressed in neurons, together with Olig2 and Mash1. Using cytometry, we show that in growing NS the small population of multipotential self-renewing NS-forming cells are A2B5(+) and NG2(+). Additionally, we demonstrate that these NS-forming cells in the embryonic spinal cord were initially NG2(-) and rapidly acquired NG2 in vitro. NG2 and Olig2 were found to be rapidly induced by cell culture conditions in spinal cord neural precursor cells. Olig2 expression was also induced in astrocytes and embryonic peripheral nervous system (PNS) cells in culture after EGF/FGF treatment. These data provide new evidence for profound phenotypic modifications in CNS and PNS neural precursor cells induced by culture conditions.
In mammals, the permanence of hearing loss is due mostly to the incapacity of the cochlea to replace lost mechano-receptor cells (i.e., hair cells [HCs]). The generation of new HCs from a renewable source of progenitors is a principal requirement for developing a cell therapy within this sensory organ. A subset of stem cells, termed side population (SP), has been identified in several tissues of mammals. The ATP-binding cassette transporter Abcg2/Bcrp1 contributes to the specification of the SP phenotype and is proposed as a universal marker for stem/progenitor cells. A defining character of these SP cells is a high efflux capacity for Hoechst dye. Here, we demonstrate that Abcg2 transporter is expressed with two other stem/progenitor cell markers (i.e., Nestin and Musashi1) in distinct and overlapping domains of the supporting cells within the postnatal cochlea. We have developed and describe a fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) technique that enables the purification of a discrete subpopulation of SP-supporting cells from the early postnatal mouse cochlea based on their ability to exclude Hoechst dye. These FACS-isolated cells can divide and express markers of stem/progenitor cells such as Abcg2, a determinant of the SP phenotype, and Musashi1, a neural stem/progenitor cell marker. These markers can differentiate cells expressing markers of HCs and supporting cells in vitro. Our observation that these SP cells are capable of differentiating into HC-like cells implies a possible use for such cells (i.e., the replacement of lost auditory HCs within damaged cochlea).
Although embryonic stem (ES) cells are capable of forming any cell type in the body, the mechanisms that control cell type-specific differentiation are largely unknown. In the present study, we examined the process of differentiation to motor neurons and oligodendrocytes from mouse (Olig2GFP) ES cells. Mouse ES cells undergo a sequential process of differentiation over a 3-week period to generate motor neurons and oligodendrocytes. At day 7 of differentiation, Olig2-expressing cells are biased to a neuronal lineage. However, further differentiation (day 32) resulted in the majority of Olig2-expressing cells exhibiting an oligodendrocyte phenotype as well as a reduced ability to make motor neurons. Exposure of human ES cells to Sonic hedgehog (Shh) likewise resulted in enhanced motor neuron differentiation. Our results establish the requirements for directing ES cells to become motor neurons and oligodendrocytes and show that ES cell-derived Olig2 + cells can give rise to both motor neurons and oligodendrocytes, depending on the time at which differentiation is initiated.
The use of neural precursor cells (NPCs) represents a promising repair strategy for many neurological disorders. However, the molecular events and biological features that control NPC proliferation and their differentiation into neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes are unclear. In the present study, we used a comparative proteomics approach to identify proteins that were differentially regulated in NPCs after short-term differentiation. We also used a subcellular fractionation technique for enrichment of nuclei and other dense organelles to identify proteins that were not readily detected in whole cell extracts. In total, 115 distinct proteins underwent expression changes during NPC differentiation. Forty one of these were only identified following subcellular fractionation. These included transcription factors, RNA-processing factors, cell cycle proteins, and proteins that translocate between the nucleus and cytoplasm. Biological network analysis showed that the differentiation of NPCs was associated with significant changes in cell cycle and protein synthesis machinery. Further characterization of these proteins could provide greater insight into the mechanisms involved in regulation of neurogenesis in the adult central nervous system (CNS) and potentially identify points of therapeutic intervention.
Induced hypothermia is one of the most promising neuroprotective therapies. Technological limitations and homeostatic mechanisms that maintain core body temperature have impeded the clinical use of hypothermia. Recent advances in intravascular cooling catheters and successful trials of hypothermia for cardiac arrest and neonatal asphyxia renewed interest in hypothermia for stroke, resulting in early phase clinical trials and plans for further development. This review elaborates on the clinical implications of hypothermia research in stroke and technical and logistical issues associated with the application of hypothermia.
Advances in microarray technology and the sequencing of the human genome are opening up new possibilities for applying genomic information in clinical medicine, using information about structural polymorphisms in DNA and changes in gene expression as measured by mRNA. Gene expression profiling studies in cancer samples have led to the identification of clinical signatures that are already being applied in some centers. In stroke, it may be possible to use peripheral blood as a source of mRNA to study gene expression. After stroke, there is a selective recruitment and migration of white blood cells to the ischemic focus in the brain. This appears to involve all white cell types and is believed to impact significantly on tissue and clinical outcome through the exacerbation of ischemic injury, particularly after reperfusion, on the one hand, and conversely contributing to tissue remodeling and repair days to weeks after stroke. The first results from clinical studies in ischemic stroke suggest that a gene expression signature can be demonstrated from peripheral white blood cells and that this represents at least a partial adaptation to the altered cerebral microenvironment. Further studies are indicated to see whether these methods may lead to new management approaches for stroke.








Nanotechnology involves the design, synthesis, and characterization of materials and devices that have a functional organization in at least one dimension on the nanometer (ie, one billionth of a meter) scale. One area in which nanotechnology may have a significant clinical impact in neuroscience is the selective transport and delivery of drugs and other small molecules across the blood brain barrier that cannot cross otherwise. Using a variety of nanoparticles composed of different chemical compositions, different groups are exploring proof-of-concept approaches for the delivery of different antineoplastic drugs, oligonucleotides, genes, and magnetic resonance imaging contrast agents. This review discusses some of the main technical challenges associated with the development of nanotechnologies for delivery across the blood brain barrier and summarizes ongoing work.

The ventral tegmental area (VTA), the origin of dopaminergic cell bodies that comprise the mesocorticolimibic DA system, is widely implicated in drug and natural reward, cognition, and several psychiatric disorders. In addition to dopaminergic neurons, this region is populated by GABAergic neurons, which both regulate the firing of their dopaminergic counterparts and send projections throughout the brain. Although the dopaminergic neurons of the VTA have been extensively characterized neuroanatomically, much less is known about the GABAergic neurons in this region. Recent data suggest that the rostro-caudal topographic organization of these GABAergic neurons may correspond to their ability to regulate drug reward. In the present study, we used immunohistochemical techniques to examine the frequency and topography of GABAergic neurons throughout the rostro-caudal axis of the VTA and the extent to which they coexpress other proteins, including tyrosine hydroxylase (a marker of DA neurons), cholecystokinin, parvalbumin, calretinin, and calbindin d 28k.
Little controlled drug administration data are available to aid in the interpretation of gamma-hydroxybutyric acid (GHB) distribution in conventional and nonconventional fluids and the potential correlation between the pharmacokinetics of GHB and drug effects. Single oral sodium GHB doses of 50 mg/kg were administered to five volunteers. Plasma, oral fluid, urine, and sweat were analyzed for GHB by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. GHB stability in plasma was studied at different storage temperatures. Subjective effects were measured using a set of 13 different visual analog scales. Mean peak GHB plasma concentrations at 30 minutes were 83.1 microg/mL. After the absorption phase, concentrations declined to mean values of 0.9 microg/mL at 6 hours. GHB was found in oral fluid at peak value concentrations equivalent to one third to one fourth of those found in plasma. The oral fluid-to-plasma ratio varied two fold in the 1- to 6-hour time range but always was lower than unit. The mean half-life (t1/2) of GHB was approximately 0.7 hour in plasma and approximately 1.2 hours in oral fluid. GHB urinary excretion is less than 2% of the dose administered. GHB was also detected in sweat at low concentrations. GHB showed a mixed sedative-stimulant pattern with subjective effects peaking between 1 and 1.5 hours after drug administration and lasting for 2 hours. Oral fluid and sweat appeared not to be suitable biologic matrices for monitoring GHB consumption. GHB-mediated subjective effects are related to GHB plasma concentrations.
Voltage-activated ion channels open and close in response to changes in membrane voltage, a process that is crucial for electrical signaling in the nervous system. The venom from many poisonous creatures contains a diverse array of small protein toxins that bind to voltage-activated channels and modify the gating mechanism. Hanatoxin and a growing number of related tarantula toxins have been shown to inhibit activation of voltage-activated potassium (K(v)) channels by interacting with their voltage-sensing domains. This review summarizes our current understanding of the mechanism by which these toxins alter gating, the location of the toxin receptor within K(v) channels and the disposition of this receptor with respect to the lipid membrane. The conservation of tarantula toxin receptors among voltage-activated ion channels will also be discussed.
Some of the most potent and specific inhibitors of voltage-gated calcium channels are peptide toxins that inhibit channel function not by occlusion of the channel pore, but rather by interfering with the voltage dependence and kinetics of channel opening and closing. Many such gating modifier toxins conform to the inhibitor cystine knot structural family and have primary sequence or functional mechanism similar to toxins that target voltage-gated sodium or potassium channels. This review introduces known gating modifiers of calcium channels, discusses the selectivity, binding sites, and mechanism of the toxin-channel interaction, and reviews the usefulness of these toxins as research tools and as the basis for novel calcium channel pharmacology and therapeutics.
Although functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) with sophisticated behavioral paradigms has enabled the investigation of increasingly higher-level cognitive functions in humans, these studies seem to lose touch with neurophysiological studies in macaque monkeys. The application of fMRI and other MRI-based techniques to macaque brains allows studies in the two species to be linked. fMRI in human and macaque subjects using equivalent cognitive tasks enables direct comparisons of the functional brain architecture, even for high-level cognitive functions. Combinations of functional or structural MRI and microelectrode techniques provide ways to explore functional brain networks at multiple spatiotemporal scales. These approaches would illuminate the neurophysiological underpinnings of human cognitive functions by integrating human functional neuroimaging with macaque single-unit recordings.
The mounting evidence for neurogenesis in the adult hippocampus has fundamentally challenged the traditional view of brain development. The intense search for clues as to the functional significance of the new neurons has uncovered a surprising connection between neurogenesis and depression. In animal models of depression, neurogenesis is reduced, whereas many treatments for depression promote neurogenesis. We speculate on why the hippocampus, traditionally viewed as a memory structure, might be involved in mood disorders, and what specific role the new neurons might have in the pathogenesis of and recovery from depression. The proposed role of neurogenesis in contextual-memory formation predicts a specific pattern of cognitive deficits in depression and has important implications for treatment of this highly prevalent and debilitating disorder.
In addition to being essential supporters of neuronal function, astrocytes are now recognized as active elements in the brain. Astrocytes sense and integrate synaptic activity and, depending on intracellular Ca(2+) levels, release gliotransmitters (e.g. glutamate, d-serine and ATP) that have feedback actions on neurons. Recent experimental results have raised the possibility that quantitative variations in gliotransmission might contribute to disorders of the nervous system. Here, we discuss targeted molecular genetic approaches that have demonstrated that alterations in protein expression in astrocytes can lead to serious changes in neuronal function. We also introduce the concept of 'astrocyte activation spectrum' in which enhanced and reduced gliotransmission might contribute to epilepsy and schizophrenia, respectively. The results of future experimental tests of the astrocyte activation spectrum, which relates gliotransmission to neurological and psychiatric disorders, might point to a new therapeutic target in the brain.
In recent years, dopamine has emerged as a key neurotransmitter that is crucially involved in incentive motivation and reinforcement learning. Dopamine release is evoked by rewards. The extensive divergence of outputs from a small number of dopaminergic neurons suggests a spatially nonselective action of dopamine, but it reinforces the specific actions that led to reward. How is this achieved? We propose that the selectivity of dopamine effects is achieved by the timing of dopamine release in relation to the activity of glutamatergic synapses, rather than by spatial localization of the dopamine signal to specific synaptic contacts. The synaptic mechanisms of these actions are unknown but reduced levels of dopamine, for example in Parkinson's disease, leads to a paucity of behavioural output, whereas its excess production has been associated with psychiatric problems. Clearly, there are therapeutic imperatives that require a better understanding of how dopamine functions at a synaptic level.
Research during the past two decades supports a complex role for neuropeptide tyrosine (NPY) and two of its associated receptors, the Y1 receptor and the Y2 receptor, in the modulation of pain, in addition to regeneration and survival mechanisms at the spinal level. Thus, NPY has been shown to both cause and reduce pain, in addition to having biphasic effects. Recent research has focused on the distribution of the spinal NPY-mediated system. Here, we propose various possible scenarios for the role of NPY in pain processing, based on its actions at different sites (axon versus cell body), through different receptors (Y1 receptor versus Y2 receptor) and/or types of neuron (ganglion neurons and intraganglionic cross-excitation versus interneurons versus projection neurons).
There is strong evidence that protein kinase C (PKC) isozyme signaling pathways are causally involved in associative memory storage. Other observations have indicated that PKC signaling pathways regulate important molecular events in the neurodegenerative pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD), which is a progressive dementia that is characterized by loss of recent memory. This parallel involvement of PKC signaling in both memory and neurodegeneration indicates a common basis for the origins of both the symptoms and the pathology of AD. Here, we discuss this conceptual framework as a basis for an autopsy-validated peripheral biomarker--and for AD drug design targeting drugs (bryostatin and bryologs) that activate PKC isozymes--that has already demonstrated significant promise for treating both AD neurodegeneration and its symptomatic memory loss.
The purpose of the experiments described here was to investigate global image processing using methods that require global processing while eliminating or compensating for low level abnormalities: visibility, shape perception and positional uncertainty. In order to accomplish this we used a closed figure made up of Gabor patches either in noise or on a blank field. The stimuli were circular or elliptical contours, formed by N equally spaced Gabor patches. We performed two separate experiments: In one experiment we fixed N and varied the aspect ratio using a staircase to determine the threshold aspect ratio; in the second experiment we held the aspect ratio constant (at twice the threshold aspect ratio) and varied N in order to measure the threshold number of elements required to judge the shape. Our results confirm and extend previous studies showing that humans with naturally occurring amblyopia show deficits in contour processing. Our results show that the deficits depend strongly on spatial scale (target size and spatial frequency). The deficit in global contour processing is substantially greater in noise (where contour-linking is required) than on a blank field. The magnitude of the deficits is modest when low-level deficits (reduced visibility, increased positional uncertainty, and abnormal shape perception) are minimized, and does not seem to depend much on acuity, crowding or stereoacuity. The residual deficits reported here cannot be simply ascribed to reduced visibility or increased positional uncertainty, and we therefore conclude that these are genuine deficits in global contour segregation and integration.
A dual-task paradigm was used to examine the effect of withdrawing attentional and/or cognitive resources from the flash-lag judgment. The flash-lag illusion was larger, and performance in a detection task was generally poorer, under dual-task conditions than in single-task control conditions. These effects were particularly pronounced when decisions in the two tasks were required simultaneously, as compared to when they could be made sequentially. The results suggest that a time-consuming process is involved in the flash-lag decision, of such a nature that prolonging the process increases the magnitude of the illusion.
A dominant mechanism of cellular patterning in the growing fish retina is control of cell fate acquisition by negative feedback signals arising from differentiated cells. We tested the ability of a computational model of this pattern formation mechanism to simulate cellular patterns in regenerated goldfish retina. The model successfully simulated quantitative features of in vivo regenerated patterns, indicating that regenerating retina has access to and utilizes patterning mechanisms that are operational during normal growth. The atypical patterns of regenerated retina could arise in part from regenerative progenitors that, compared to normal growth progenitors, are less responsive to the feedback patterning signals.


Alternative splicing is an important mechanism to generate proteome diversity in higher eukaryotic organisms. We searched for splice variants of the human Adhesion family of G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) using mRNA sequences and expressed sequence tags. The results presented here describe 53 human splice variants among the 33 Adhesion GPCRs. Many of these variants appear to be coding for &quot;functional&quot; proteins (29) while the others are seemingly &quot;non-functional&quot; (24). Novel functional splice variants were found for: CD97, CELR3, EMR2, EMR3, GPR56, GPR110, GPR112-GPR114, GPR116, GPR123-GPR126, GPR133, HE6, and LEC1-LEC3. Splice variants for GPR116, GPR125, GPR126, and HE6 were found conserved in other species. Several of the functional splice variants lack one or more of the functional domains that are found in the N-termini of these receptors. These functional domains are likely to affect ligand binding or interaction with other proteins and these novel splice variants may have important roles for the specificity of interactions between these receptors and extracellular molecules. Another type of splice variants found here lacks a GPCR proteolytic site (GPS). The GPS domain has been shown to be essential for the proteolytic cleavage of the receptors N-termini and for cellular surface expression. We suggest that these alternative splice variants may be crucial for the function of the receptors while the seemingly non-functional splice variants may be a part of a regulative mechanism.
Microfabrication processes have changed the technology used in consumer goods, and have now advanced into applications in biology. Microfluidic platforms are microfabricated tools that are gaining popularity for studies of molecular and cellular biology. These platforms can allow precise control of the environment surrounding individual cells and they have been used to study physiologic and pharmacologic responses at the single-cell level. This article reviews microfluidic technology with emphasis on advances that could apply to the study of the nervous system, including architecture for isolation of axons, integrated electrophysiology, patterned physical and chemical substrate cues, and devices for the precisely controlled delivery of possible therapeutic agents such as trophic factors and drugs. The potential of these chips for the study of neurological diseases is also discussed.
A PCR was standardized for amplifying three different mycobacterial--IS6110, MPB-64, 65 kDa DNA sequences. A comparative evaluation of the three PCR assays was carried out for the rapid diagnosis of tuberculous meningitis (TBM) using cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) specimens. While the IS6110 PCR was a single-step amplification reaction, the MPB-64 and 65 kDa antigen PCR assays were nested reactions. A total of 176 cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples from 176 patients were subjected to amplification of the three different mycobacterial sequences. Amongst them, 45 samples were obtained from confirmed cases of TBM (culture positive) and 56 samples were obtained from clinically suspected cases of TBM which were culture-negative. The remaining 75 CSF samples were categorized under the non-infectious and infectious illness of the central nervous system (CNS). Against a gold standard of culture, a sensitivity of 98% (NPV=99%) and a specificity of 100% (PPV=100%) was observed with the IS6110 PCR. Among the nested PCRs, a sensitivity of 91% (NPV=94%) and a specificity of 91% (PPV=85%) was observed with the MPB-64 assay, while the 65 kDa protocol had an associated sensitivity of 51% (NPV=76%) and a specificity of 92% (PPV=79%). These findings suggest that among the nested PCR assays, the MPB-64 PCR assay was associated with an enhanced degree of sensitivity and was comparable in terms of specificity. Our study also demonstrates that the IS6110 assay, while being a single-step PCR had the advantage of being a rapid test for the diagnosis of TBM, with increased sensitivity and enhanced specificity as compared to the nested PCR protocols.
Synapses need to encode a wide dynamic range of action potential frequencies. Essential vesicle priming proteins of the Munc13 (mammalian Unc13) family play an important role in adapting vesicle supply to variable demand and thus influence short-term plasticity characteristics and synaptic function. Structure-function analyses of Munc13s have identified a &quot;catalytic&quot; C-terminal domain and several N-terminal modulatory domains, including a diacylglycerol/phorbol ester [4beta-phorbol-12, 13-dibutyrate (PDBu)] binding C1 domain. Although still allowing basal priming, a Munc13-1 C1 domain mutation (H567K) prevents PDBu induced potentiation of evoked transmitter release, leads to strong depression during trains of synaptic activity, and causes perinatal lethality in mice. To understand the mechanism of C1 domain-mediated modulation of Munc13 function, we examined how PDBu increases neurotransmitter release. Analyses of osmotically induced release as well as Ca2+ triggered and spontaneous release showed that PDBu increases the vesicular release rate without affecting the size of the readily releasable vesicle pool, linking C1 domain activation to a lowering of the energy barrier for vesicle fusion. PDBu binding-deficient mutant Munc13-1(H567K) synapses mirrored the vesicular release properties of PDBu-potentiated wild-type synapses, indicating that Munc13-1(H567K) is a gain-of-function mutant, which conformationally mimics the PDBu-activated state of Munc13-1. We propose a PKC analogous two-state model of regulation of Munc13s, in which the basal state of Munc13s is disinhibited by C1 domain activation into a state of facilitated vesicle release, regardless of whether the release is spontaneous or action potential triggered.
A surprising discovery in recent years is that the structure of the adult human brain changes when a new cognitive or motor skill is learned. This effect is seen as a change in local gray or white matter density that correlates with behavioral measures. Critically, however, the cognitive and anatomical mechanisms underlying these learning-related structural brain changes remain unknown. Here, we combined brain imaging, detailed behavioral analyses, and white matter tractography in English-speaking monolingual adolescents to show that a critical linguistic prerequisite (namely, knowledge of vocabulary) is proportionately related to relative gray matter density in bilateral posterior supramarginal gyri. The effect was specific to the number of words learned, regardless of verbal fluency or other cognitive abilities. The identified region was found to have direct connections to other inferior parietal areas that separately process either the sounds of words or their meanings, suggesting that the posterior supramarginal gyrus plays a role in linking the basic components of vocabulary knowledge. Together, these analyses highlight the cognitive and anatomical mechanisms that mediate an essential language skill.
Animals and humans maintain a definite body orientation in space during locomotion. Here we analyze the system for the control of body orientation in the lamprey (a lower vertebrate). In the swimming lamprey, commands for changing the body orientation are based on vestibular information; they are transmitted to the spinal cord by reticulospinal (RS) neurons. The aim of this study was to characterize the sensory-motor transformation performed by individual RS neurons. The brainstem-spinal cord preparation with vestibular organs was used. For each RS neuron, we recorded (1) its vestibular responses to turns in different planes and (2) responses in different motoneuron pools of the spinal cord to stimulation of the same RS neuron; the latter data allowed us to estimate the direction of torque (caused by the RS neuron) that will rotate the animal's body during swimming. For each of the three main planes (roll, pitch, and yaw), two groups of RS neurons were found; they were activated by rotation in opposite directions and caused the torques counteracting the rotation that activated the neuron. In each plane, the system will stabilize the orientation at which the two groups are equally active; any deviation from this orientation will evoke a corrective motor response. Thus, individual RS neurons transform sensory information about the body orientation into the motor commands that cause corrections of orientation. The closed-loop mechanisms formed by individual neurons of a group operate in parallel to generate the resulting motor responses.
Retinal ganglion cell axons exit the eye, enter the optic stalk, cross the ventral midline at the optic chiasm, and terminate in the optic tectum of the zebrafish. While in the optic stalk, they grow immediately adjacent to cells expressing the powerful retinal axon repellent slit2. The chemokine stromal cell-derived factor-1 (SDF1) is expressed within the optic stalk and its receptor CXCR4 is expressed in retinal ganglion cells. SDF1 makes cultured retinal axons less responsive to slit2. Here, we show that reducing SDF1 signaling in vivo rescues retinal axon pathfinding errors in zebrafish mutants that have a partial functional loss of the slit receptor robo2. In contrast, reducing SDF1 signaling in animals that completely lack the robo2 receptor does not rescue retinal guidance errors. These results demonstrate that endogenous levels of SDF1 antagonize the repellent effects of slit/robo signaling in vivo and that this antagonism is important during axonal pathfinding.
Orbital cysticercosis with both ocular and extraocular involvement is common in endemic areas. The presence of scolex is considered diagnostic of cysticercosis. We sought to compare multi-slice CT and 3D steady state MR in the identification of scolex in orbital cysticercosis. Three patients with orbital cysticercosis (two extra-ocular, one ocular) were studied using multi-slice CT with thin coronal and sagittal reformations and 3D steady state MR (CISS 3D - Constructive Interference in Steady State) sequence.
Infection is associated with activation in central autonomic nuclei involved in mediating coordinated host defense responses. Aged mice showed exaggerated sickness behavior following peripheral injection of pro-inflammatory bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS), but is unknown whether central autonomic network responses are concomitantly increased. To assess whether aged mice exhibit enhanced neural response to LPS, we compared neural responses using c-Fos immunohistochemistry in aged BALB/c mice (22-24 months) with those of young adult peers (3-6 months). Intraperitoneal LPS challenge induced robust expression of c-Fos protein in central autonomic regions, including catecholaminergic neurons in the pons and brainstem, as well as in barrier-associated areas including the circumventricular organs. The numbers of c-Fos positive neurons were significantly greater in the aged compared to the young adult mice. These findings show age-associated enhancement of response to inflammation in the blood-brain chemosensory interfaces as well the central autonomic pathways involved in the elaboration of sickness symptoms, which may contribute to exaggerated sickness and poorer outcomes of infectious disease in the elderly.

Spectra and coherences are standard measures of association within and between time series. These measures have several advantages over their time-domain counterparts, not the least of which is the ability to derive and estimate confidence intervals. However, comparing spectra and coherences between two groups of observation is a problem that has not received much attention. This problem is important in neuroscience since it is often of great interest to determine whether the estimates differ between distinct experimental/behavioral conditions. Here we propose one approach to this problem. Based on the known distributional properties of spectral and coherence estimates, we derive a test for equality of two spectral or coherence estimates. The test is applicable to unequal sample sizes. We also derive jackknifed estimates of the variance of the proposed test statistic. We suggest that comparing the estimates obtained from the jackknife procedure with the theoretical estimates provides a robust means of determining whether the data in question shows non-Gaussian or non-stationary behavior. Finally, we present applications of the method to simulated and real data.
Previous psychophysical studies have shown that oriented signals are pooled over space to support better perceptual performance. We have investigated whether oriented signals may also be pooled over time. Using an orientation-in-noise paradigm, the threshold to discriminate large orientation differences was measured as the minimum amount of signal required to discriminate an oriented stimulus from unoriented noise. Discrimination thresholds were better with dynamic stimuli, containing multiple independent samples over time, than with static stimuli presented for an equal duration. Thresholds for dynamic stimuli showed gradual improvement from very brief (12 ms) to remarkably long presentation times (&gt;4 s). Spatial integration of orientation signals is very efficient and can be understood in terms of a model based on signal detection theory, with performance limited by early and late stages of intrinsic noise. The nature of temporal integration is different, however, and is more consistent with probability summation of the outputs from low-level orientation detectors operating at a very brief timescale but whose outputs can be combined over a very long duration to yield better perceptual performance.
We describe a silicon chip-based supported bilayer system to detect the presence of ion channels and their electrical conductance in lipid bilayers. Nanopores were produced in microfabricated silicon membranes by electron beam lithography as well as by using a finely focused ion beam. Thermal oxide was used to shrink pore sizes, if necessary, and to create an insulating surface. The chips with well-defined pores were easily mounted on a double-chamber plastic cell recording system, allowing for controlling the buffer conditions both above and below the window. The double-chamber system allowed using an atomic force microscopy (AFM) tip as one electrode and inserting a platinum wire as the second electrode under the membrane window, to measure electrical current across lipid bilayers that are suspended over the pores. Atomic force imaging, stiffness measurement, and electrical capacitance measurement show the feasibility of supporting lipid bilayers over defined nanopores: a key requirement to use any such technique for structure-function study of ion channels. Online addition of gramicidin, an ion-channel-forming peptide, resulted in electrical current flow across the bilayer, and the I-V curve that was measured using the conducting AFM tip indicates the presence of many conducting gramicidin ion channels.


Berridge's model (e.g. [Berridge KC. Food reward: Brain substrates of wanting and liking. Neurosci Biobehav Rev 1996;20:1-25.; Berridge KC, Robinson T E. Parsing reward. Trends Neurosci 2003;26:507-513.; Berridge KC. Motivation concepts in behavioral neuroscience. Physiol Behav 2004;81:179-209]) outlines the brain substrates thought to mediate food reward with distinct 'liking' (hedonic/affective) and 'wanting' (incentive salience/motivation) components. Understanding the dual aspects of food reward could throw light on food choice, appetite control and overconsumption. The present study reports the development of a procedure to measure these processes in humans. A computer-based paradigm was used to assess 'liking' (through pleasantness ratings) and 'wanting' (through forced-choice photographic procedure) for foods that varied in fat (high or low) and taste (savoury or sweet). 60 participants completed the program when hungry and after an ad libitum meal. Findings indicate a state (hungry-satiated)-dependent, partial dissociation between 'liking' and 'wanting' for generic food categories. In the hungry state, participants 'wanted' high-fat savoury&gt;low-fat savoury with no corresponding difference in 'liking', and 'liked' high-fat sweet&gt;low-fat sweet but did not differ in 'wanting' for these foods. In the satiated state, participants 'liked', but did not 'want', high-fat savoury&gt;low-fat savoury, and 'wanted' but did not 'like' low-fat sweet&gt;high-fat sweet. More differences in 'liking' and 'wanting' were observed when hungry than when satiated. This procedure provides the first step in proof of concept that 'liking' and 'wanting' can be dissociated in humans and can be further developed for foods varying along different dimensions. Other experimental procedures may also be devised to separate 'liking' and 'wanting'.
Networks of transcriptional regulatory proteins dictate specification of neural lineages from multipotent retinal progenitors. Rod photoreceptor differentiation requires the basic motif-leucine zipper (bZIP) transcription factor NRL, because loss of Nrl in mice (Nrl-/-) results in complete transformation of rods to functional cones. To examine the role of NRL in cell fate determination, we generated transgenic mice that express Nrl under the control of Crx promoter in postmitotic photoreceptor precursors of WT and Nrl-/- retina. We show that NRL expression, in both genetic backgrounds, leads to a functional retina with only rod photoreceptors. The absence of cones does not alter retinal lamination, although cone synaptic circuitry is now recruited by rods. Ectopic expression of NRL in developing cones can also induce rod-like characteristics and partially suppress cone-specific gene expression. We show that NRL is associated with specific promoter sequences in Thrb (encoding TRbeta2 transcription factor required for M-cone differentiation) and S-opsin and may, therefore, directly participate in transcriptional suppression of cone development. Our studies establish that NRL is not only essential but is sufficient for rod differentiation and that postmitotic photoreceptor precursors are competent to make binary decisions during early retinogenesis.
Transmitter release at chemical synapses is triggered by high calcium concentration microprofiles at the presynaptic cytosol. Such microprofiles, generated by the opening of voltage-dependent calcium channels at the presynaptic plasma membrane, have been defined as calcium concentration microdomains. Using total internal reflection fluorescent microscopy in conjunction with calcium and vesicular release indicator dyes, we have directly visualized the close apposition of calcium concentration microdomains and synaptic release sites at single synaptic terminals from the CNS from rat cerebellar mossy fiber and squid optic lobe. These findings demonstrate the close apposition of calcium entry and release sites and the dynamics of such site locations over time. Kinetic analysis shows that vesicles can be released via two distinct mechanisms: full-fusion and kiss-and-run. Calcium triggers vesicular motion toward the membrane, and the speed of such movement is calcium concentration-dependent. Moreover, the immediately available vesicular pool represents molecularly trapped vesicles that can be located at a larger distance from the plasma membrane than the field illuminated by total internal reflection fluorescent microscopy.
The aim of the present study was to verify the consequences of telencephalic ablation on the learning of inhibitory avoidance and anxiety in goldfish. The animals were submitted to telencephalic ablation or sham operations five days prior to the experimental procedure. The inhibitory avoidance procedure was performed in 3 days using a rectangular aquarium divided into two compartments (black and white) with a central door. On the first day, the animals were habituated for 10 min. On the second and third days, they were injected with saline (SAL), 16 mg/kg Chlorpheniramine (CPA), 40% Propylene glycol (PPG) or 1 mg/kg Diazepam (DZP) twenty minutes before training. Then the animals were placed in the white compartment, the central door was opened and the time spent for crossing between compartments was recorded. After the fish crossed the line between the compartments a 45-g weight was dropped. This procedure was performed three times in a row. The groups submitted or not to telencephalic ablation and treated with SAL presented a difference between training sessions; however, the groups treated with CPA, PPG or DZP did not show any differences between them. These results suggest that the treatment with CPA, PPG or DZP impaired the acquisition of inhibitory avoidance conditioning in animals regardless of telecenphalic ablation. In conclusion, telencephalic ablation does not disrupt the animals' capacity to learn the inhibitory avoidance task, and based on the fact that CPA showed similar effects to those of DZP on the animals submitted or not to telencephalic ablation, we suggest that the CPA presents an anxiolytic-like effect mediated by the diencephalon in goldfish.
About half of the risk to develop alcoholism is related to genetic background and it is well known that alcohol consumption is highly individualized. In this study, we investigated how individual alcohol consumption behaviour in Wistar rats correlated with mRNA expression of 20 genes in the prefrontal cortex, hippocampus and amygdala. We found that the long-term alcohol consumption of an individual could be estimated by the mean of its consumption on Day 2 and 3. This short exposure minimized changes in gene expression induced by alcohol itself. We found a positive correlation in the prefrontal cortex of GABA(A) alpha5 (r=0.96), GABA(B1) (r=0.96), AMPA GluR1 (r=0.93), 5-HT(3A) (r=0.93) and the alpha adrenoceptors (alpha(1A)r=1.00, alpha(1B)r=0.93, alpha(2A)r=0.93) with consumption. In the hippocampus, we found negative correlations with the NMDA NR2A subunit (r=-0.86), the alpha(1A) adrenoceptor (r=-0.89) and the glucocorticoid receptor (r=-0.86). Finally, in the amygdala there was a negative correlation to NMDA NR2A (r= -0.79) and a positive correlation with serotonin 5-HT(2C) (r=0.79). In conclusion, we have used qPCR to identify specific genes in the brain that correlated to alcohol self-administration of an individual animal. This study suggests that alcohol consumption in the early stages of acquisition depends on the genetic background of the individual and that the prefrontal cortex is particularly important in this behaviour.
Signaling by laminins and axonal neuregulin has been implicated in regulating axon sorting by myelin-forming Schwann cells. However, the signal transduction mechanisms are unknown. Focal adhesion kinase (FAK) has been linked to alpha6beta1 integrin and ErbB receptor signaling, and we show that myelination by Schwann cells lacking FAK is severely impaired. Mutant Schwann cells could interdigitate between axon bundles, indicating that FAK signaling was not required for process extension. However, Schwann cell FAK was required to stimulate cell proliferation, suggesting that amyelination was caused by insufficient Schwann cells. ErbB2 receptor and AKT were robustly phosphorylated in mutant Schwann cells, indicating that neuregulin signaling from axons was unimpaired. These findings demonstrate the vital relationship between axon defasciculation and Schwann cell number and show the importance of FAK in regulating cell proliferation in the developing nervous system.
Recently, the &quot;Compensation Comparison&quot; method was introduced for measuring retinal straylight. In this article, basic aspects are described, in particular a generalization of the approach using the concept of &quot;precompensation,&quot; and including flicker threshold as parameter in the psychophysical model. The model was experimentally verified in lab measurements with and without artificially increased straylight and was tested on the data from the multi-center GLARE study. The resulting flicker threshold estimates were analyzed to better understand their origin. An effect of flicker adaptation over distance was found. The new approach proved suitable to describe Compensation Comparison measurements including precompensation, and also for subjects with poor psychometric behavior.
It has been previously shown that corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) exerts antiproliferative activity on an estrogen-dependent tumor cell line, i.e. human endometrial adenocarcinoma Ishikawa (IK) cells. Here we have investigated the effects of CRH on another estrogen-dependent tumor cell line, human breast cancer MCF7 cells. In this paradigm, CRH given at a fixed concentration of 100 nM significantly inhibited cell growth induced by 100 nM estradiol (E2) after 48 and 72 h of incubation. This effect was not associated with the induction of apoptosis. CRH inhibition of cell proliferation was counteracted in a concentration-dependent manner by the non-selective CRH receptor antagonist, astressin, as well as by a CRH-R1 selective receptor antagonist, antalarmin. RNase protection assays carried out on MCF7 under basal conditions showed that these cells express in a constitutive manner the CRH-R1 receptor subtype. We have also investigated the putative source of CRH acting on breast cancer cells; we found that MCF7 cells express CRH mRNA under basal conditions and secrete sizable amounts of immunoreactive CRH, which leads to postulate the existence of paracrine-autocrine inhibitory mechanism operated by CRH in breast cancer cells.
Considerable evidence from behavioral studies has indicated that people tend to pay attention to negative stimuli preferentially. The attentional bias can occur rapidly and automatically. In the current study, a 'cue-target' paradigm was utilized to manipulate the attention allocation. Seventeen healthy undergraduates participated in the experiment. The stimuli were emotional pictures (positive, neutral and negative), which were upper and lower adjacent patchworks of a normal scene and its inverted copy. The subjects should judge whether the normal scene (compared with the inverted scene) was located in the upper or lower part of the whole patchwork. We used this implicit emotional task to avoid the task relevance effect. It was found that the amplitude of P2 waves was enlarged by the negative pictures and there was a significant interaction between the cue effect and the emotional valence. We can conclude that the negative information exerts an attentional bias effect in the emotional perception, and that the negative contents suffer less in the insufficient attention condition compared with the positive and the neutral conditions.




Traditionally, anatomical and physiological descriptions of hemispheric specialization have focused on hemispheric asymmetries of local brain structure or local functional properties, respectively. This article reviews the current state of an alternative approach that aims at unraveling the causes and functional principles of hemispheric specialization in terms of asymmetries in connectivity. Starting with an overview of the historical origins of the concept of lateralization, we briefly review recent evidence from anatomical and developmental studies that asymmetries in structural connectivity may be a critical factor shaping hemispheric specialization. These differences in anatomical connectivity, which are found both at the intra- and inter-regional level, are likely to form the structural substrate of different functional principles of information processing in the two hemispheres. The main goal of this article is to describe how these functional principles can be characterized using functional neuroimaging in combination with models of functional and effective connectivity. We discuss the methodology of established models of connectivity which are applicable to data from positron emission tomography and functional magnetic resonance imaging and review published studies that have applied these approaches to characterize asymmetries of connectivity during lateralized tasks. Adopting a model-based approach enables functional imaging to proceed from mere descriptions of asymmetric activation patterns to mechanistic accounts of how these asymmetries are caused.
Susceptibility genes for schizophrenia have been hypothesised to mediate liability for the disorder at least partly by influencing cognitive performance. We investigated the association between genotype and cognitive performance for a Dysbindin risk haplotype which is associated with schizophrenia in our sample. Fifty-two patients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder (24 risk haplotypes carriers versus 28 non-risk haplotype carriers) were assessed in areas of cognition showing evidence of familial deficits in schizophrenia. Verbal and spatial memory, working memory, and attentional control was assessed using selected measures from the Weschler memory scale (WMS), Cambridge automated test battery (CANTAB), continuous performance test (CPT), and a simple go/no-go task. Pre-morbid IQ was also assessed using the Weschler Test of Adult Reading (WTAR). Patients carrying the Dysbindin risk haplotype showed significantly lower spatial working memory performance than patients who were non-risk carriers, with genotype explaining 12% of variance in performance. Our study suggests that the increased risk for schizophrenia associated with dysbindin may be partly mediated by its influence on pre-frontal function.
Previous research has suggested that perceptual information about objects is activated during sentence comprehension [Zwaan, R. A., Stanfield, R. A., &amp; Yaxley, R. H. (2002). Language comprehenders mentally represent the shapes of objects. Psychological Science, 13(2), 168-171]. The goal in the current study was to examine the role of the two hemispheres in the activation of such information. Participants read sentences that conveyed information about the shape of an object (e.g., the egg was in the pan versus the egg was in the carton) and then received a picture of the object that was either consistent or inconsistent with the shape implied by the sentence (e.g., a fried egg versus a whole egg). In Experiment 1, pictures were presented briefly in either the left-visual field or the right-visual field. Participants showed a mismatch effect, slower responses when the picture was inconsistent with the shape of the object implied by the sentence than when it was consistent, but only when the pictures appeared in the right-visual field (left hemisphere). In Experiment 2, the sentences were revised such that the shape of the object was described explicitly. Participants showed a mismatch effect in both visual fields. These findings suggest that the right hemisphere activates shape information during sentence comprehension when a shape description is explicit, whereas the left hemisphere activates such information both when the shape is described explicitly and when it is implied.
Mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI) leads to a variety of attentional, cognitive, and sensorimotor deficits. An important aspect of behavior that intersects each of these functions is the ability to cancel a planned action. Thus, the purpose of this study was to determine the effects of mTBI on the ability to perform a countermanding saccade task. In this task, participants were asked to generate a saccade to a target appearing in peripheral vision, but to inhibit saccade execution if an auditory stop signal was presented. The delay between the appearance of the peripheral target and the presentation of the auditory stop signal was varied between 0 and 125ms. We found that the change in the probability of cancelling the saccade as a function of this delay was no different between participants with mTBI tested within 2 days of their injury and matched controls. However, saccadic reaction times and the stop signal reaction time were unexpectedly faster in the participants with mTBI and, furthermore, they inaccurately inhibited saccades during 15% of the trials with no stop signal. Taken together, this data suggests that the ability to cancel planned actions is subtly yet adversely affected by mTBI.

Subarachnoid haemorrhage accounts for only 5% of strokes, but occurs at a fairly young age. Sudden headache is the cardinal feature, but patients might not report the mode of onset. CT brain scanning is normal in most patients with sudden headache, but to exclude subarachnoid haemorrhage or other serious disorders, a carefully planned lumbar puncture is also needed. Aneurysms are the cause of subarachnoid haemorrhage in 85% of cases. The case fatality after aneurysmal haemorrhage is 50%; one in eight patients with subarachnoid haemorrhage dies outside hospital. Rebleeding is the most imminent danger; a first aim is therefore occlusion of the aneurysm. Endovascular obliteration by means of platinum spirals (coiling) is the preferred mode of treatment, but some patients require a direct neurosurgical approach (clipping). Another complication is delayed cerebral ischaemia; the risk is reduced with oral nimodipine and probably by maintaining circulatory volume. Hydrocephalus might cause gradual obtundation in the first few hours or days; it can be treated by lumbar puncture or ventricular drainage, dependent on the site of obstruction.
Immune-responsive neurons in the brainstem, primarily in the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS) and ventrolateral medulla (VLM), contribute to a significant drive on forebrain nuclei responsible for brain-mediated host defense responses. The current study investigated the relative contribution of brainstem-derived ascending pathways to forebrain immune-responsive nuclei in the rat by means of retrograde tract tracing and c-Fos immunohistochemistry. Fluorogold was iontophoresed into the bed nucleus of stria terminalis (BST), central nucleus of the amygdala (CEA), paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN), and the pontine lateral parabrachial nucleus (PBL; an important component of ascending viscerosensensory pathways) followed 2 weeks later by intraperitoneal injection of lipopolysaccharide (LPS, 0.1 mg/kg) or saline. The NTS and VLM provide immune-responsive input to all four regions, via direct, predominantly catecholaminergic, projections to the PVN, the lateral BST, and the CEA, and mostly non-catecholaminergic projections to the PBL. The PBL provides a major LPS-activated input to the BST and CEA. The pattern of LPS-activated catecholaminergic projections from the VLM and NTS to the forebrain is characterized by a strong predominance of VLM input to the PVN, whereas the NTS provides a greater contribution to the BST. These findings indicate that direct and indirect pathways originate in the caudal brainstem that propagate immune-related information from the periphery with multiple levels of processing en route to the forebrain nuclei, which may allow for integration of brain responses to infection.
The present study investigated whether morphine can promote regeneration and synaptic reconstruction of the terminals of injured primary afferent fibers in lamina II of the spinal cord in rats following sciatic nerve injury. Fluoride-resistant acid phosphatase (FRAP)-positive terminals in lamina II of the L4 spinal segment after sciatic nerve injury were assessed after treatment with vehicle, morphine, and naloxone plus morphine. Under the electron microscope, types I and II complex terminals of unmyelinated afferent fibers from the dorsal root, simple terminals of interneuronal axons, and terminals of descending axons at lamina II of the L4 spinal segment were documented in the different groups after injury. FRAP-positive terminals in lamina II were depleted after sciatic nerve injury in the vehicle group. Treatment with morphine increased the numbers of FRAP-positive terminals, and this was prevented by naloxone. The present study demonstrates that morphine may promote the regeneration and synaptic reconstruction of the terminals of injured primary unmyelinated afferent fibers in lamina II of spinal cord, by a process mediated by mu-opioid receptors.
Previous research indicates that an age-related increase in the amplitude of the Ca2+-dependent, K+-mediated afterhyperpolarization (AHP) is related to cognitive decline. However, because the AHP is measured following completion of training, it is unclear whether the AHP amplitude is strictly dependent on biological aging or is modified by the training procedure. To address this distinction we examined the effect of environmental enrichment on the AHP amplitude. Young (5-8 months) and aged (22-24 months) male Fischer 344 rats were exposed to environmental enrichment conditions (EC) or maintained in individual cages (IC). Following 8-10 weeks of differential experience, sharp microelectrode current-clamp recordings were obtained in CA1 pyramidal neurons in hippocampal slices. Examination of the AHP demonstrated that the amplitude was significantly reduced in aged animals exposed to enriched conditions. The results indicate that the amplitude of the AHP in hippocampal pyramidal cells from aged animals is dependent on the history of experience and hippocampal activity.
Adult Sprague-Dawley rats were exposed to a single session of 100 inescapable tail shocks (IS). Bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) was administered 1 h, 2 days or 7 days later and hippocampal cell proliferation (CP) was assessed after a 2-h survival period. Measures of plasma corticosterone (CORT) levels were also obtained. Despite a large increase in CORT immediately following IS, no associated change in CP was observed. In fact, the only significant change in CP was seen 7 days after IS, at a time when CORT was unchanged from control levels. These data raise questions about the general nature of the relationship between CORT and CP. They also suggest that, under some conditions, changes in hippocampal CP may emerge only after an &quot;incubation period&quot;.
Gradients of axon guidance molecules instruct the formation of continuous neural maps, such as the retinotopic map in the vertebrate visual system. Here we show that molecular gradients can also instruct the formation of a discrete neural map. In the fly olfactory system, axons of 50 classes of olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) and dendrites of 50 classes of projection neurons (PNs) form one-to-one connections at discrete units called glomeruli. We provide expression, loss- and gain-of-function data to demonstrate that the levels of transmembrane Semaphorin-1a (Sema-1a), acting cell-autonomously as a receptor or part of a receptor complex, direct the dendritic targeting of PNs along the dorsolateral to ventromedial axis of the antennal lobe. Sema-1a also regulates PN axon targeting in higher olfactory centers. Thus, graded expression of Sema-1a contributes to connection specificity from ORNs to PNs and then to higher brain centers, ensuring proper representation of olfactory information in the brain.
Chronic nicotine administration is associated with increased ethanol consumption in laboratory animals and in humans. Some smokers report less sedation during acute ethanol intoxication after nicotine administration and the sedative effects from ethanol are mediated by inhibitory GABA(A)-receptors. In a series of in vivo microdialysis experiments we investigated whether subchronic pre-treatment with nicotinic drugs known to enhance ethanol consumption in the rat (nicotine or the peripheral nicotinic antagonist hexamethonium) could modulate the alterations in extracellular dopamine observed in response to administration of ethanol or the sedative GABA(A)-agonist diazepam. In the nucleus accumbens and the dorsal striatum, systemic and/or local ethanol administration resulted in transient increases in extracellular dopamine levels that returned to baseline before the local levels of ethanol started to decline. In hexamethonium pre-treated rats, however, the nucleus accumbens dopamine levels were time-locked to the ethanol levels in the same area after systemic or local ethanol administration. Perfusion of diazepam into the nucleus accumbens produced a significant reduction in nucleus accumbens dopamine in controls. Prior subchronic treatment with nicotine or hexamethonium abolished this effect. The present results suggest that subchronic treatment with the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor antagonist hexamethonium reduces a GABA(A)-R mediated counteraction of the nucleus accumbens dopamine response to ethanol. Additionally, we demonstrate that modulation of nicotinic receptors may reduce the sensitivity of GABA(A) receptors to benzodiazepines. These phenomena may offer a novel explanation to why nicotine and alcohol are often co-abused.
Ethanol-induced accumbal dopamine elevations have been linked to ethanol consumption. It is unclear, however, where along the mesolimbic dopamine system this effect is initiated and why the ethanol-induced dopamine elevations are transient, returning to pre-drug baseline before brain and blood ethanol levels decline. Using in vivo microdialysis, Experiment 1 investigated the effect of local ethanol application in the nucleus accumbens, the ventral tegmental area and the nucleus accumbens+the ventral tegmental area, on accumbal dopamine. Experiment 2 examined whether the rapid withdrawal of dopamine response to ethanol involves activation of GABA(A)-receptors, by analyzing the effect of accumbal co-perfusion of picrotoxin and ethanol. In Experiment 1, ethanol perfusion into the ventral tegmental area alone did not affect accumbal dopamine. Ethanol co-perfusion of one of the tested doses into the ventral tegmental+the nucleus accumbens produced higher dopamine levels than ethanol perfusion into the nucleus accumbens alone during 120-160 min following perfusion onset. In Experiment 2, accumbal ethanol perfusion caused a transient increase in nucleus accumbens dopamine. Co-perfusion of ethanol and picrotoxin produced a sustained dopamine elevation. These data support the hypothesis that the primary effect of ethanol on accumbal dopamine is in the nucleus accumbens, but that a secondary effect of nucleus accumbens ethanol perfusion, such as release of acetylcholine in the ventral tegmental area, enables ethanol to act as a nicotinic acetylcholine receptor co-agonist in this area. Moreover, recruitment of GABA(A)-receptor activity appears responsible for the second, declining phase with respect to dopamine levels following ethanol administration.
A number of brain systems have been implicated in addictive behavior, but none have yet been shown to be necessary for maintaining the addiction to cigarette smoking. We found that smokers with brain damage involving the insula, a region implicated in conscious urges, were more likely than smokers with brain damage not involving the insula to undergo a disruption of smoking addiction, characterized by the ability to quit smoking easily, immediately, without relapse, and without persistence of the urge to smoke. This result suggests that the insula is a critical neural substrate in the addiction to smoking.
The human apolipoprotein E isoforms, apoE2, apoE3, and apoE4, have differential effects on brain function. Compared to apoE3, apoE4 increases the risk of age-related cognitive decline in humans and female mice expressing apoE in neurons. Here, we show impaired spatial memory retention in female mice expressing apoE4 in astrocytes compared to those expressing apoE3 in astrocytes or lacking apoE. Thus, apoE4 impairs cognition whether expressed in neurons or astrocytes.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder, characterised by severe degeneration of basal ganglia, motor abnormalities, impaired cognitive function and emotional disturbances. Many of the distinct neuropathological features of HD are reproduced in rats by intrastriatal injections of the excitotoxin quinolinic acid (QA), and QA-induced excitotoxicity is partially prevented by administration of the A(2A) receptor antagonist prior to the QA injection. In this study, we assessed the neuroprotective effects of the adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonist SCH 58261 on the progressive behavioural alterations reported in the QA rat model of Huntington's disease. Male rats received i.p. SCH 58261 (0.01mg/kg) or vehicle 20min before a bilateral injection of quinolinic acid (QA, 300nmol/1mul) or its vehicle in the dorsal striatum. Motor activity and anxiety levels were analyzed in an open-field arena and in an elevated plus-maze at 2 weeks, 2 months and 6 months post-lesion. In QA-lesioned rats SCH 58261 prevented alterations of wall rearing behaviour starting from 2 weeks post-lesion while emotional changes (reduced anxiety) were back to control levels by 6 months post-lesion. These findings extend to the behavioural parameters the protective effects of SCH 58261 in the QA model of Huntington's disease.
Repeated exposure to anabolic/androgenic steroids (AAS) during adolescence stimulates high levels of offensive aggression in Syrian hamsters. The current study investigated whether adolescent AAS exposure activated neurons in areas of hamster forebrain implicated in aggressive behavior by examining the expression of FOS, i.e., the protein product of the immediate early gene c-fos shown to be a reliably sensitive marker of neuronal activation. Adolescent AAS-treated hamsters and sesame oil-treated littermates were scored for offensive aggression and then sacrificed 1 day later and examined for the number of FOS immunoreactive (FOS-ir) cells in regions of the hamster forebrain important for aggression control. When compared with non-aggressive, oil-treated controls, aggressive AAS-treated hamsters showed persistent increases in the number of FOS-ir cells in select aggression regions, namely the anterior hypothalamus and lateral septum. However, no differences in FOS-ir cells were found in other areas implicated in aggression such as the ventrolateral hypothalamus, bed nucleus of the stria terminals, central and/or medial amygdala or in non-aggression areas, such as the samatosensory cortex and the suprachiasmatic nucleus. These results suggest that adolescent AAS exposure may constitutively activate neurons in select forebrain areas critical for the regulation of aggression in hamsters. A model for how persistent activation of neurons in one of these brain regions (i.e., the anterior hypothalamus) may facilitate the development of the aggressive phenotype in adolescent-AAS exposed animals is presented.
Adolescence is characterized by behavioral traits such as emotional lability and impulsivity that are associated with increased vulnerability to affective illness and addictions. Research in rodents has found that adolescent rats and mice differ from adults on measures of anxiety-like behavior, novelty seeking and stress-responsivity. The present study sought to extend these data by evaluating fear-, anxiety- and depression-related behaviors in male C57BL/6J mice aged four (early adolescent), six (peri-adolescent) or eight (early adult) weeks of age. Age groups were compared on: Pavlovian fear conditioning and extinction, anxiety-like behavior and exploratory locomotion (using elevated plus-maze and novel open field), and depression-related behavior (via forced swim test). Results showed that early adolescent mice exhibited enhanced fear conditioning, but extinguished at a similar rate as adults. There were no major differences in anxiety-like behavior across age groups, although early adolescent and peri-adolescent mice exhibited less exploratory locomotion than adults. Depression-related immobility behavior in the forced swim test was lower in early adolescents than adult mice across three test exposures. Present findings in the C57BL/6J inbred strain add to growing evidence of changes in rodent fear- and stress-related behaviors across the developmental transition from juvenility through adulthood. Understanding the neural basis of these ontogenic changes could provide insight into the pathogenesis and treatment of affective disorders that have their origins in adolescence.
Prolonged maternal deprivation leads to long-term alterations in hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis activity, disturbances of auditory information processing and neurochemical changes in the adult brain, some of which are similar to that observed in schizophrenia. Here we report the adult behavioural effects of maternal deprivation (12h on postnatal days 9 and 11) in Wistar rats on paradigms of auditory information processing (prepulse inhibition), sensitivity to dopamimetics (amphetamine-induced hyper-locomotion) and cognition (T-maze delayed alternation and Morris water-maze). In addition, we examined the long-lasting effect of chronic 21-day corticosterone treatment during the post-pubertal period (i.e., postnatal days 56-76) on each of these behavioural paradigms in maternally deprived and control rats. Behavioural testing commenced 2 weeks after the termination of corticosterone treatment. Maternal deprivation led to a significant reduction in PPI and impaired spatial learning ability in adulthood, but did not affect the behavioural response to amphetamine. Post-pubertal chronic corticosterone treatment did not have any major long-lasting effects on any of the behavioural measures in either maternally deprived or control rats. Our findings further support maternal deprivation as an animal model of specific aspects of schizophrenia.
(-)-4-Amino-2-thiabicyclo-[3.1.0]hexane-4,6-dicarboxylate (LY389795, (-)-3) is a highly potent and selective agonist of metabotropic glutamate receptors 2 (mGlu2) and 3 (mGlu3). As part of our ongoing research program, we have prepared S-oxidized variants of (-)-3, compounds (-)-10, (+)-11 (LY404040), and (-)-12 (LY404039). Each of these chiral heterobicyclic amino acids displaced specific binding of the mGlu2/3 receptor antagonist 3H-2S-2-amino-2-(1S,2S-2-carboxycycloprop-1-yl)-3-(xanth-9-yl)propanoic acid (3H-LY341495) from membranes expressing recombinant human mGlu2 or mGlu3 and acted as potent agonists in cells expressing these receptor subtypes. Docking of the most potent of these derivatives, (+)-11, to mGlu2 revealed the possibility of an additional H-bond interaction between the sulfoxide oxygen of (+)-11 with tyrosine residue Y236. Pharmacokinetic analysis of mGlu active enantiomers (+)-11 and (-)-12 in rats showed each to be well absorbed following oral administration. Consistent with their mGlu2/3 agonist potency and pharmacokinetic properties, both (+)-11 and (-)-12 blocked phencyclidine-evoked ambulations in a dose-dependent manner, indicating their potential as nonclassical antipsychotic agents.






Emotion regulation is often critical for adaptive decision making. Here, we investigate whether emotion regulation defects following focal prefrontal brain damage are associated with exceptionally irrational economic decision making in situations of unfair treatment. In the Ultimatum Game, two players are given one opportunity to split a sum of money. One player (the proposer) offers a portion of the money to the second player (the responder) and keeps the rest. The responder can either accept the offer (in which case both players split the money as proposed) or reject the offer (in which case both players get nothing). Relatively low Ultimatum offers are often rejected, and this &quot;irrational&quot; behavior has been attributed to an emotional reaction to unfair treatment. Using the lesion method, we tested the hypothesis that damage to ventromedial prefrontal cortex (VMPC), an area critical for the modulation of emotional reactions, would result in exaggerated irrational economic decisions. Subjects acted as the responder to 22 different proposers who offered various splits of 10 dollars. Offers ranged from fair (give 5 dollars, keep 5 dollars) to extremely unfair (give 1 dollar, keep 9 dollars). The rejection rate of the VMPC group was higher than the rejection rates of the comparison groups for each of the most unfair offers (7 dollars/3 dollars, 8 dollars/2 dollars, 9 dollars/1 dollars). These results suggest that emotion regulation processes subserved by VMPC are a critical component of normal economic decision making.
During antenatal development, the operation and maturation of mammalian spinal networks strongly depend on the activity of ventral horn GABAergic interneurons that mediate excitation first and inhibition later. Although the functional consequence of GABA actions may depend on maturational processes in target neurons, it is also likely that evolving changes in GABAergic transmission require fine-tuning in GABA release, probably via certain intrinsic mechanisms regulating GABAergic neuron excitability at different embryonic stages. Nevertheless, it has not been possible, to date, to identify certain ionic conductances upregulated or downregulated before birth in such cells. By using an experimental model with either mouse organotypic spinal cultures or isolated spinal cord preparations, the present study examined the role of the ERG current (I(K(ERG))), a potassium conductance expressed by developing, GABA-immunoreactive spinal neurons. In organotypic cultures, only ventral interneurons with fast adaptation and GABA immunoreactivity, and only after 1 week in culture, were transformed into high-frequency bursters by E4031, a selective inhibitor of I(K(ERG)) that also prolonged and made more regular spontaneous bursts. In the isolated spinal cord in which GABA immunoreactivity and m-erg mRNA were colocalized in interneurons, ventral root rhythms evoked by NMDA plus 5-hydroxytryptamine were stabilized and synchronized by E4031. All of these effects were lost after 2 weeks in culture or before birth in coincidence with decreased m-erg expression. These data suggest that, during an early stage of spinal cord development, the excitability of GABAergic ventral interneurons important for circuit maturation depended, at least in part, on the function of I(K(ERG)).
Current thinking about how memories are stored in the brain has been profoundly influenced by Donald O. Hebb's cell assembly hypothesis, which posits that (1) learning produces a stable alteration in patterns of connectivity among repeatedly coactivated neurons, and (2) memory retrieval involves reactivation of those altered patterns of connectivity. However, learning-induced changes in connectivity that persist over long periods of time have not been clearly demonstrated. In the present study, two spatial navigation tasks and a long-term ensemble recording technique are used to describe long-lasting modifications in functional connectivity (FC) (defined as changes in synchronous firing) of prefrontal cortical neurons in behaving rats. Animals were initially trained to alternate visiting two spatial locations on a figure-8-shaped maze to obtain a reward (alternating task 1). Afterward, while continuing on task 1, animals were additionally trained to visit only one spatial location on the same maze to obtain a reward (unilateral task 2). Multiple single units were recorded while rats were undergoing acquisition, retention, and performance of both tasks. Our data indicate that correlated firing of prefrontal cortical neurons changed significantly in early phases of training when learning rate was maximal but became progressively smaller in later phases when learning reached asymptote. After animals became proficient, FC remained constant, although neuronal activities varied across two different tasks. The present finding of negatively accelerated changes in FC confirms associative learning theories and provides crucial neurophysiological evidence for Hebb's hypothesis.
Transient surges of dopamine in the nucleus accumbens are associated with drug seeking. Using a voltammetric sensor with high temporal and spatial resolution, we demonstrate differences in the temporal profile of dopamine concentration transients caused by acute doses of nicotine, ethanol, and cocaine in the nucleus accumbens shell of freely moving rats. Despite differential release dynamics, all drug effects are uniformly inhibited by administration of rimonabant, a cannabinoid receptor (CB1) antagonist, suggesting that an increase in endocannabinoid tone facilitates the effects of commonly abused drugs on subsecond dopamine release. These time-resolved chemical measurements provide unique insight into the neurobiological effectiveness of rimonabant in treating addictive disorders.
Behavioral plasticity induced by the integration of two sensory signals, such as associative learning, is an important issue in neuroscience, but its evolutionary origin and diversity have not been explored sufficiently. We report here a new type of such behavioral plasticity, which we call butanone enhancement, in Caenorhabditis elegans adult hermaphrodites: C. elegans specifically enhances chemotaxis to butanone by preexposure to butanone and food. Mutant analysis revealed that this plasticity requires the AWC(ON) olfactory neuron, whose fate is known to be determined by the NSY-1/ASK1 MAPKKK (mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase) cascade as well as the DAF-11 and ODR-1 guanylyl cyclases. These proteins also control many aspects of olfactory sensation/plasticity in AWC neurons and seem to provide appropriate cellular conditions for butanone enhancement in the AWC(ON) neuron. Butanone enhancement also required the functions of Bardet-Biedl syndrome genes in the AWC(ON) neuron but not other genes that control ciliary transport. Furthermore, preexposure to butanone and the odor of food was enough for the enhancement of butanone chemotaxis. These results suggest that the AWC(ON) olfactory neuron may conduct a behavioral plasticity resembling associative learning and that the functions of Bardet-Biedl syndrome genes in sensory cilia may play an important role in this plasticity.
Conscious perception depends not only on sensory input, but also on attention [1, 2]. Recent studies in monkeys [3-6] and humans [7-12] suggest that influences of spatial attention on visual awareness may reflect top-down influences on excitability of visual cortex. Here we tested this specifically, by providing direct input into human visual cortex via cortical transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to produce illusory visual percepts, called phosphenes. We found that a lower TMS intensity was needed to elicit a conscious phosphene when its apparent spatial location was attended, rather than unattended. Our results indicate that spatial attention can enhance visual-cortex excitability, and visual awareness, even when sensory signals from the eye via the thalamic pathway are bypassed.
Decisions under risk and choices between delayed outcomes are usually treated as two separate problems. A new study suggests that these two classes of decision making are more related than previously thought, and that delay discounting may tune an animal's attitude towards risky choices.
The locus coeruleus (LC) harbors a compact group of noradrenergic cell bodies projecting to virtually all parts of the central nervous system. By using combined measurements of amperometry and patch-clamp, quantal vesicle release of noradrenaline (NA) was detected as amperometric spikes, after depolarization of the LC neurons. After a pulse depolarization, the average latency of amperometric spikes was 1,870 ms, whereas the latency of glutamate-mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents was 1.6 ms. A substantial fraction of the depolarization-induced amperometric spikes originated from the somata. In contrast to glutamate-mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents, NA secretion was strongly modulated by the action potential frequency (0.5-50 Hz). Somatodendritic NA release from LC upon enhanced cell activity produced autoinhibition of firing and of NA release. We conclude that, in contrast to classic synaptic transmission, quantal NA release from LC somata is characterized by a number of distinct properties, including long latency and high sensitivity to action potential frequency.

Tumor necrosis factor-alpha is a central cytokine involved in the regulation of the innate immune response. Signal transducers and activators of transcription 4 and signal transducers and activators of transcription 6 are second messengers mediating the Th1 and Th2-specific immune responses, respectively. We studied the outcome of spinal cord injury with respect to the locomotion and axonal regeneration in tumor necrosis factor-alpha, signal transducers and activators of transcription 4 and signal transducers and activators of transcription 6 knockout mice. Locomotor behavior after injury differed between mouse strains, but not between wild-type and the knockout genotypes of the same strain. Regeneration of descending tracts, assessed by fluorogold/fluororuby retrograde double-labeling, however, appeared hampered by Th2 deficiency.
Interferon-alpha commonly induces depressive symptoms in clinical populations; however, the mechanism by which this occurs is unclear. Recent studies suggest that the degeneration of axons containing serotonin and noradrenaline is involved in the pathophysiology of depression. The present immunohistochemical study shows that the density of serotonergic axons decreased in the ventral medial prefrontal cortex and amygdala in the interferon-alpha-treated animals. Additionally, interferon-alpha induced decreases in the density of noradrenergic axons in the dorsal medial prefrontal cortex, ventral medial prefrontal cortex, and dentate gyrus. These results support the hypothesis that long-term administration of interferon-alpha causes the degeneration of monoaminergic axons in specific brain regions, which might be associated with depressive symptoms occurring in interferon-alpha-treated patients.
Alzheimer's disease is associated with progressively dysfunctional gene expression in the limbic system of the brain. The thalamus and primary visual cortex are thought to be initially spared of Alzheimer-type changes that ravage the association neocortex. In this study, using DNA arrays and Western immunoassay, gene expression patterns were examined in the thalamus and primary visual cortex of moderate-stage and late-stage Alzheimer's disease and age-matched controls using a set of proinflammatory genes known to be upregulated in the temporal lobe neocortex and hippocampus of moderate-stage Alzheimer's disease. The data indicate that, in late-stage Alzheimer's disease, proinflammatory and proapoptotic gene expression spreads into the primary visual sensory cortex. This upregulation of pathological gene expression could be, in part, responsible for the visual disturbances associated with end-stages of the Alzheimer process.
Although the aetiology of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is still elusive, increased attention has been put forward on events related to neuroinflammation and an active participation of glial cells in the ALS pathogenesis has been suggested. However, the specific role of many proinflammatory mediators that usually accompany the inflammatory changes is still largely unknown. High mobility group box protein 1 (HMGB1) is an ubiquitous nuclear protein that exerts numerous extranuclear and extracellular functions, including a proinflammatory activity, able to induce cytokines expression and activate inflammatory cells. To investigate whether this protein may play a role in the inflammatory events in ALS, we examined both expression and localization of HMGB1 in the lumbar spinal cord of SOD1G93A transgenic mice, a well established mouse model of familial ALS, at different stages of the disease. Intense HMGB1 reactivity was detected in ventral horn motor neurons of both non-transgenic and SOD1G93A mice and there was no difference in its expression between presymptomatic SOD1G93A mice and controls. With the progression of the disease, degenerating neurons showed a reduction of HMGB1 immunoreactivity which could reflect an extracellular release of this protein. By contrast, in the reactive glial cells HMGB1 was remarkably expressed in the nucleus, but not in the cytosol, likely contributing to the proliferation and/or hypertrophy of these cells. These results suggest that HMGB1 may have a different involvement in the motor neurons and glial cells in response to the neurotoxic environment in the spinal cord of SOD1G93A mice, and it may contribute to the progression of inflammatory and neurodegenerative processes.
Event-related potential (ERP) correlates of semantic and non-semantic mismatch in the 200-400ms time interval were dissociated. Twelve subjects observed pairs of single letters and digits presented serially, and decided whether the colour (blue or red) or the category membership (letter or number) of the second item in a pair matched the first one. In both tasks mismatch elicited central N2b components (220ms peak latency in the colour matching task, and 280ms peak latency in the category matching task). Furthermore, in the category matching task a centro-parietal negativity (N400) emerged. The topography of the N2b effect was clearly distinct from that of the N400 effect. Analysis of event-related spectral perturbations confirmed that N400 time-range effects were specific to category matching. We conclude that while the N400 effect is a specific marker of semantic mismatch, the N2b effect is a general correlate of detecting mismatch between the representations of task-relevant features.
Day length is the primary cue used by many mammals to restrict reproduction to favourable spring and summer months, but it is unknown for any mammal whether the seasonal loss of fertility begins at the same time and occurs at the same rate in females and males; nor it established whether the termination of mating behaviour in males and females coincides with the loss of fertility. We speculated that females, owing to their greater energetic investment in reproduction, are the limiting sex in terminating offspring production in short days (SDs). Oestrous cycles and production of young were monitored in Syrian hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus) transferred from long days (LDs) to SDs. Females were mated to LD males after three to eight weeks of SD treatment; in a parallel experiment, males housed in SDs were mated to LD females. After five and eight weeks in SDs, at least twice as many males as females were fertile. Both males and females continued to copulate for several weeks after becoming infertile. The onset of seasonal infertility occurs earlier in females than males and the decline in fertility precedes the seasonal loss of mating behaviour in both sexes.
We analyse the performance of statistical reconstruction (SR) methods when applied to non-continuous x-ray detectors. Robustness to projection gaps is required in x-ray CT systems with multiple detector modules or with defective detector pixels. In such situations, the advantage of statistical reconstruction is that it is able to ignore missing or faulty pixels and that it makes optimal use of the remaining line integrals. This potentially obviates the need to fill the sinogram discontinuities by interpolation or any other approximative pre-processing techniques. In this paper, we apply SR to cone beam projections of (i) a hypothetical modular detector micro-CT scanner and of (ii) a system with randomly located defective detector elements. For the modular-detector system, SR produces reconstruction volumes free of noticeable gap-induced artefacts as long as the location of detector gaps and selection of the scanning range provide complete object sampling in the central imaging plane. When applied to randomly located faulty detector elements, SR produces images free of substantial ring artefacts even for cases where defective pixels cover as much as 3% of the detector area.

This paper review the evolution of clinical neuroinformatics domain in the passed and gives an outlook how this research field will evolve in clinical neurology (e.g. Epilepsy, Multiple Sclerosis, Dementia) and neurosurgery (e.g. image guided surgery, intra-operative imaging, the definition of the Operation Room of the future). These different issues, as addressed by the VisAGeS research team, are discussed in more details and the benefits of a close collaboration between clinical scientists (radiologist, neurologist and neurosurgeon) and computer scientists are shown to give adequate answers to the series of problems which needs to be solved for a more effective use of medical images in clinical neurosciences.
The brain has an estrogen-biosynthetic potential resulting from the presence of neuronal aromatase, which controls the intraneural sex-steroidal milieu and is involved in brain sexual differentiation, psychobehavioral regulation, and neuroprotection. In the rat brain, three distinct aromatase-P450-immunoreactive (AromP450-I) neural groups have been categorized in terms of their peak expression time (fetal, fetoneonatal, and young-to-adult groups), suggesting the presence of region-specific regulation on brain AromP450. In the present study, we compared the expressions between AromP450 protein and mRNA by using immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization with an ovary-derived cRNA probe in serial sections of fetal, fetoneonatal, and adult male rat brains and then performed steroidal manipulations to evaluate the sex-steroidal effects on AromP450 in adult orchiectomized and adrenalectomized (OCX + ADX) male rats. As a result, prominent mRNA signals were detected in the fetal (i.e., the anterior medial preoptic nucleus) and fetoneonatal (i.e., the medial preopticoamygdaloid neuronal arc) groups, although no detectable signal was found in the &quot;young-to-adult&quot; group (i.e., the central amygdaloid nucleus). In addition, the &quot;fetoneonatal&quot; AromP450-I neurons were prominently reduced in number and intensity after OCX + ADX and then were reinstated by the administration of dihydrotestosterone, testosterone, or 17beta-estradiol. In contrast, none of the sex steroids had any significant effects on the young-to-adult group. Several possible explanations were explored for why the young-to-adult group may differ in aromatase expression and regulation, including the possibility that distinct splicing variants or isozymes for aromatase exist in the rat brain.
The basolateral amygdala contains several subpopulations of inhibitory interneurons that can be distinguished on the basis of their content of calcium-binding proteins or peptides. Although previous studies have shown that interneuronal subpopulations containing parvalbumin (PV) or vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) innervate distinct postsynaptic domains of pyramidal cells as well as other interneurons, very little is known about the synaptic outputs of the interneuronal subpopulation that expresses somatostatin (SOM). The present study utilized dual-labeling immunocytochemical techniques at the light and electron microscopic levels to analyze the innervation of pyramidal cells, PV+ interneurons, and VIP+ interneurons in the anterior basolateral amygdalar nucleus (BLa) by SOM+ axon terminals. Pyramidal cell somata and dendrites were selectively labeled with antibodies to calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMK); previous studies have shown that the vast majority of dendritic spines, whether CAMK+ or not, arise from pyramidal cells. Almost all SOM+ axon terminals formed symmetrical synapses. The main postsynaptic targets of SOM+ terminals were small-caliber CaMK+ dendrites and dendritic spines, some of which were CaMK+. These SOM+ synapses with dendrites were often in close proximity to asymmetrical (excitatory) synapses to these same structures formed by unlabeled terminals. Few SOM+ terminals formed synapses with CaMK+ pyramidal cell somata or large-caliber (proximal) dendrites. Likewise, only 15% of SOM+ terminals formed synapses with PV+, VIP+, or SOM+ interneurons. These findings suggest that inhibitory inputs from SOM+ interneurons may interact with excitatory inputs to pyramidal cell distal dendrites in the BLa. These interactions might affect synaptic plasticity related to emotional learning.
Kappa opioid receptor (KOR) ligands alter nociceptive responses when applied to the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM). However, the effects of kappa opioid receptor ligands are distinct in males and females. The present study examined the distribution of kappa opioid receptor immunoreactivity in the RVM of male and female rats. KOR immunoreactivity was found at pre- and postsynaptic sites within the RVM of both sexes. The most common KOR-immunoreactive (KOR-ir) neuronal structures were unmyelinated axons, followed by axon terminals, dendrites, and somata. Different proportions of KOR-ir axon terminals and dendrites were found in females at different estrous stages. Specifically, dendrites containing KOR immunoreactivity were less abundant in proestrus females compared with estrus females and showed a trend toward being less abundant in males, suggesting that KOR ligands applied to the RVM may be less potent in proestrus females. These findings suggest that the distribution of KORs in the RVM may be influenced by reproductive hormone levels. We also found KOR immunoreactivity in many spinally projecting neurons within the RVM of female rats. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that KOR ligands influence nociceptive behaviors by altering the activity of specific populations of neurons within the RVM. The abundance of KOR in axons and axon terminals in RVM indicates a substantial role for presynaptic effects of KOR ligands through pathways that have not been clearly delineated. Altering the balance between pre- and postsynaptic receptive sites may underlie differences in the effects of KOR agonists on nociceptive responses in males and females.


The pedunculopontine nucleus (PPN), the cholinergic arm of the reticular activating system (RAS), is known to modulate waking and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. REM sleep decreases between 10 and 30 days postnatally in the rat, with the majority occurring between 12 and 21 days. We investigated the possibility that changes in the cholinergic, muscarinic and/or nicotinic, input to PPN neurons could explain at least part of the developmental decrease in REM sleep. We recorded intracellularly from PPN neurons in 12-21 day rat brainstem slices maintained in artificial cerebrospinal fluid (aCSF) and found that application of the nicotinic agonist 1,1-dimethyl-4-phenyl-piperazinium iodide (DMPP) depolarized PPN neurons early in development, then hyperpolarized PPN neurons by day 21. Most of the effects of DMPP persisted following application of the sodium channel blocker tetrodotoxin (TTX), and in the presence of glutamatergic, serotonergic, noradrenergic and GABAergic antagonists, but were blocked by the nicotinic antagonist mecamylamine (MEC). The mixed muscarinic agonist carbachol (CAR) hyperpolarized all type II (A current) PPN cells and depolarized all type I (low threshold spike-LTS current) and type III (A+LTS current) PPN cells, but did not change effects during the period known for the developmental decrease in REM sleep. The effects of CAR persisted in the presence of TTX but were mostly blocked by the muscarinic antagonist atropine (ATR), and the remainder by MEC. We conclude that, while the nicotinic inputs to the PPN may help modulate the developmental decrease in REM sleep, the muscarinic inputs appear to modulate different types of cells differentially.
It has been known that an intact thyroid hormone is obligatory for the attainment of the normal masticatory function at the time of weaning. Following induced maternal thyroid hypo-function, the development of masseter motoneurons was determined at postnatal days 1, 7, 15 and 23 (weaning time), using retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase (HRP) in the normal and hypothyroid pups. Based on the HRP labeling profile (strong and weak), the soma area of the masseteric labeled motoneurons was measured in each group. No significant morphological differences were observed at the end of the first week of life. On day 15, hypothyroid masseteric labeled motoneurons consisted of 76% small and 24% medium-sized neurons compared to 58% and 42% in normal pups, respectively. At the time of weaning (i.e., day 23) the number of large masseter motoneurons reached to 1/3 of normal value with few, short and disoriented dendrites in the hypothyroid pup. There was no statistically significant difference in the uptake of HRP from the neuromuscular junction. These results suggest that neonatal thyroid hormone deficiency considerably postponed the development of feeding behavior from sucking to chewing and biting.
Electrical synapses are abundant before and during developmental windows of intense chemical synapse formation, and might therefore contribute to the establishment of neuronal networks. Transient electrical coupling develops and is then eliminated between regenerating Helisoma motoneurons 110 and 19 during a period of 48-72 h in vivo and in vitro following nerve injury. An inverse relationship exists between electrical coupling and chemical synaptic transmission at these synapses, such that the decline in electrical coupling is coincident with the emergence of cholinergic synaptic transmission. In this study, we have generated two- and three-cell neuronal networks to test whether predicted synaptogenic capabilities were affected by previous synaptic interactions. Electrophysiological analyses demonstrated that synapses formed in three-cell neuronal networks were not those predicted based on synaptogenic outcomes in two-cell networks. Thus, new electrical and chemical synapse formation within a neuronal network is dependent on existing connectivity of that network. In addition, new contacts formed with established networks have little impact on these existing connections. These results suggest that network-dependent mechanisms, particularly those mediated by gap junctional coupling, regulate synapse formation within simple neural networks.
Glutamate is the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system. Its activity is carefully modulated in the synaptic cleft by glutamate transporters. The glial glutamate transporter EAAT2 is the main mediator of glutamate clearance. Reduced EAAT2 function could lead to accumulation of extracellular glutamate, resulting in a form of cell death known as excitotoxicity. In amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and Alzheimer disease, EAAT2 protein levels are significantly decreased in affected areas. EAAT2 mRNA levels, however, remain constant, indicating that alterations in EAAT2 expression are due to disturbances at the post-transcriptional level. In the present study, we found that some EAAT2 transcripts contained 5'-untranslated regions (5'-UTRs) greater than 300 nucleotides. The mRNAs that bear long 5'-UTRs are often regulated at the translational level. We tested this possibility initially in a primary astrocyte line that constantly expressed an EAAT2 transcript containing the 565-nt 5'-UTR and found that translation of this transcript was regulated by many extracellular factors, including corticosterone and retinol. Moreover, many disease-associated insults affected the efficiency of translation of this transcript. Importantly, this translational regulation of EAAT2 occurred in vivo (i.e. both in primary cortical neurons-astrocytes mixed cultures and in mice). These results indicate that expression of EAAT2 protein is highly regulated at the translational level and also suggest that translational regulation may play an important role in the differential EAAT2 protein expression under normal and disease conditions.
Whereas poly-ubiquitination targets protein substrates for proteasomal degradation, mono-ubiquitination is known to regulate protein trafficking in the endosomal system and to target cargo proteins for lysosomal degradation. The role of the de-ubiquitinating enzymes AMSH and UBPY in endosomal trafficking of cargo proteins such as the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) has only very recently been the subject of study and is already a matter of debate. Although one report (Mizuno, E., Iura, T., Mukai, A., Yoshimori, T., Kitamura, N., and Komada, M. (2005) Mol. Biol. Cell 16, 5163-5174) concludes that UBPY negatively regulates EGFR degradation by de-ubiquitinating the EGFR on endosomes, another report (Row, P. E., Prior, I. A., McCullough, J., Clague, M. J., and Urbe, S. (2006) J. Biol. Chem. 281, 12618-12624) concludes that UBPY-mediated EGFR de-ubiquitination is essential for EGFR degradation. Here, we demonstrate that Usp8/UBPY, the mammalian ortholog of budding yeast Ubp4/Doa4, constitutively co-precipitates in a bivalent manner with the EGFR. Moreover, UBPY is a substrate for Src-family tyrosine kinases that are activated after ligand-induced EGFR activation. Using overexpression of three different recombinant dominant negative UBPY mutants (UBPY C748A mutant, UBPY 1-505, and UBPY 640-1080) in NIH3T3 and HEK293 cells, we demonstrate that UBPY affects both constitutive and ligand-induced (i) EGFR ubiquitination, (ii) EGFR expression levels, and (iii) the appearance of intermediate EGFR degradation products as well as (iv) downstream mitogen-activated protein kinase signal transduction. Our findings provide further evidence in favor of the model that UBPY-mediated EGFR de-ubiquitination promotes EGFR degradation.
Mitochondria play a central role in both the physiological and pathophysiological regulation of cell survival/death. Increasing evidence places mitochondrial dysfunction at the center of many neuropathological conditions. The present study investigates the extent of mitochondrial dysfunction in cortical, hippocampal and cerebellar tissues in a rat model of hypoxia-ischemia (HI). We hypothesized that; mitochondrial dysfunction in situ may be prevented by treatment with clomethiazole (CMZ), a GABA(A) receptor agonist. Assessment of mitochondrial FAD-linked respiration at both 1- and 3-day post-HI revealed a marked decrease in activity from ipsilateral cortical and hippocampal regions (P&lt;0.001). In addition, small changes were seen in contralateral cortical and hippocampal tissues as well as in the cerebellum at 3-days (P&lt;0.05). Assessment of the mitochondrial electron transport chain (complexes I-V), and mitochondrial markers of integrity (citrate synthase) and oxidative stress (aconitase) confirmed mitochondrial impairment in ipsilateral regions following HI. Complexes I, II-III, V and citrate synthase were also impaired in contralateral regions and cerebellum 3-days post-HI. Treatment with CMZ (414 mg/kg/day via minipumps) provided marked protection to all aspects of neuronal tissue assessed. Circulating cytokine (interleukin [IL]-1alpha, IL-1beta, tumor necrosis factor [TNF]-alpha, granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor [GM-CSF], IL-4 and IL-10) levels were also assessed in these animals 3-days post-HI. Plasma IL-1alpha, IL-1beta, TNF-alpha and GM-CSF levels were significantly increased post-HI. Treatment with CMZ ameliorated the increases in IL-1alpha, IL-1beta, TNF-alpha and GM-CSF levels while increasing plasma IL-4 and IL-10 levels. This study provides evidence of the extent of mitochondrial damage following an HI-insult. In addition, we have shown that protection afforded by CMZ extends to preservation of mitochondrial function and integrity via anti-inflammatory mediated pathways.
Following focal ischemic injury, several mechanisms lead to secondary expansion of the affected area and therefore increase the initial damage. We thoroughly investigated the expression of astrocytic connexin 43 (Cx43) after photothrombosis in rat brain. The temporal profile of Cx43 mRNA as well as protein expression was studied in remote, structurally uninjured cortical and hippocampal areas. The hippocampal formation revealed an increased number of Cx43 mRNA positive astrocytes and an up-regulated protein expression exclusively in the ipsilateral stratum oriens. We assume a participation of this region in glia scar formation. While Cx43 mRNA positive cells were transiently increased, immunoreactivity was reduced in the somatosensory cortex of injured hemispheres. The observed decrease of Cx43 protein in the post-ischemic cerebral cortex implies an impairment of gap junctional intercellular communication which might be detrimental to the brain.
The goal of the present study was to determine the phase relationships of the slow oscillatory activity that emerges in basal ganglia nuclei in anesthetized rats after dopamine cell lesion in order to gain insight into the passage of this oscillatory activity through the basal ganglia network. Spike train recordings from striatum, subthalamic nucleus (STN), globus pallidus (GP), and substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNpr) were paired with simultaneous local field potential (LFP) recordings from SNpr or motor cortex ipsilateral to a unilateral lesion of substantia nigra dopamine neurons in urethane-anesthetized rats. Dopamine cell lesion induced a striking increase in incidence of slow oscillations (0.3-2.5 Hz) in firing rate in all nuclei. Phase relationships assessed through paired recordings using SNpr LFP as a temporal reference showed that slow oscillatory activity in GP spike trains is predominantly antiphase with oscillations in striatum, and slow oscillatory activity in STN spike trains is in-phase with oscillatory activity in cortex but predominantly antiphase with GP oscillatory activity. Taken together, these results imply that after dopamine cell lesion in urethane-anesthetized rats, increased oscillatory activity in GP spike trains is shaped more by increased phasic inhibitory input from the striatum than by phasic excitatory input from STN. In addition, results show that oscillatory activity in SNpr spike trains is typically antiphase with GP oscillatory activity and in-phase with STN oscillatory activity. While these observations do not rule out additional mechanisms contributing to the emergence of slow oscillations in the basal ganglia after dopamine cell lesion in the anesthetized preparation, they are compatible with 1) increased oscillatory activity in the GP facilitated by an effect of dopamine loss on striatal 'filtering' of slow components of oscillatory cortical input, 2) increased oscillatory activity in STN spike trains supported by convergent antiphase inhibitory and excitatory oscillatory input from GP and cortex, respectively, and 3) increased oscillatory activity in SNpr spike trains organized by convergent antiphase inhibitory and excitatory oscillatory input from GP and STN, respectively.
Neonatal administration of the synthetic glucocorticoid, dexamethasone (DEX) retards brain growth, alters adult behaviors and induces cell death in the rat brain, thereby implicating glucocorticoids as developmentally neuroendangering compounds. Glucocorticoids also increase expression of pro-apoptotic Bcl-2 family members and exacerbate expression of hypoxic responsive genes. Bnip3 is a pro-apoptotic Bcl-2 family member that is upregulated in response to hypoxia. In these studies, we investigated the interactions of glucocorticoid receptor and hypoxia in the regulation of Bnip3 mRNA in cortical neurons. Using quantitative real time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, we found that DEX treatment of postnatal days 4-6 rat pups caused a significant increase in Bnip3 mRNA expression compared with vehicle controls. A significant increase in Bnip3 mRNA was also measured in primary cortical neurons 72 h after treatment with RU28362, a glucocorticoid receptor selective agonist. In primary cortical neurons, hypoxia increased Bnip3 mRNA expression and this was exacerbated with RU28362 treatment. To elucidate the mechanism of glucocorticoid- and hypoxia-mediated regulation of Bnip3 transcription, a Bnip3 promoter-luciferase reporter construct was utilized in primary cortical neurons. Upregulation of the Bnip3 promoter was mediated by a single glucocorticoid response element and a hypoxic response element. Bnip3 overexpression in primary cortical neurons significantly increased cell death, which is dependent on the Bnip3 transmembrane domain. However, despite the increased expression of Bnip3 following glucocorticoid and hypoxia treatment, corresponding decreases in cell survival were minimal. These studies identify a novel pathway in the developing cortex through which glucocorticoids may enhance a metabolic insult, such as hypoxia.
Three closely-linked clusters of protocadherin (Pcdh) genes (alpha, beta, and gamma) encoding more than 50 distinct mRNAs have been identified in humans and mice, and proposed to play important roles in neuronal connectivity in the CNS. The human and mouse Pcdh alpha and gamma clusters each span a region of about 300 kb genomic DNA, and are each organized into a tandem array of more than a dozen highly-similar &quot;variable&quot; exons, and three downstream &quot;constant&quot; exons. Little is known about the expression patterns of the alpha and gamma repertoires in the CNS. Here, we comprehensively analyzed the one megabase rat Pcdh genomic DNA sequences at the nucleotide level using various computational methods. We found that the clustered rat Pcdh genes display strict orthologous relationships with those of mice but not humans. Moreover, each rat Pcdh variable exon is preceded by a distinct promoter. We designed two complete sets of isoform-specific probes and extensively mapped the expression patterns for each member of the alpha and gamma repertoires in the adult rat CNS by non-isotopic in situ hybridization experiments. We found that most alpha and gamma mRNA isoforms are broadly expressed in similar patterns in subsets of cells (with some displaying interesting cortical layer-specific expression) throughout various CNS regions, including the olfactory bulb, cerebral cortex, hippocampus, cerebellum, and spinal cord. The broad expression of most alpha or gamma mRNAs throughout various regions of the CNS is consistent with the hypothesis that these genes may be used for neurons to establish their individuality and also provide the adhesive diversity required for complex synaptic connectivity in the mammalian CNS.
Propagation of odor-induced Ca(2+) transients from the cilia/knob to the soma in mammalian olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) is thought to be mediated exclusively by high-voltage-activated Ca(2+) channels. However, using confocal Ca(2+) imaging and immunocytochemistry we identified functional T-type Ca(2+) channels in rat ORNs. Here we show that T-type Ca(2+) channels in ORNs also mediate propagation of odor-induced Ca(2+) transients from the knob to the soma. In the presence of the selective inhibitor of T-type Ca(2+) channels mibefradil (10-15 microM) or Ni(2+) (100 microM), odor- and forskolin/3-isobutyl-1-methyl-xanthine (IBMX)-induced Ca(2+) transients in the soma and dendrite were either strongly inhibited or abolished. The percentage of inhibition of the Ca(2+) transients in the knob, however, was 40-50% less than that in the soma. Ca(2+) transients induced by 30 mM K(+) were partially inhibited by mibefradil, but without a significant difference in the extent of inhibition between the knob and soma. Furthermore, an increase of as little as 2.5 mM in the extracellular K(+) concentration (7.5 mM K(+)) was found to induce Ca(2+) transients in ORNs, and such responses were completely inhibited by mibefradil or Ni(2+). Total replacement of extracellular Na(+) with N-methyl-d-glutamate inhibited none of the odor-, forskolin/IBMX- or 7.5 mM K(+)-induced Ca(2+) transients. Positive immunoreactivity to the Ca(v)3.1, Ca(v)3.2 and Ca(v)3.3 subunits of the T-type Ca(2+) channel was observed throughout the soma, dendrite and knob. These data suggest that involvement of T-type Ca(2+) channels in the propagation of odor-induced Ca(2+) transients in ORNs may contribute to signal transduction and odor sensitivity.
Neurotransmitter transporters play an important role in the control of synaptic transmission by ensuring the clearance of transmitters liberated in the synaptic cleft. In the case of monoaminergic neurotransmitters, this clearance is carried out by high-affinity reuptake transporters located in the plasma membrane of the presynaptic terminals. Recently plasma membrane monoamine transporter (PMAT), a transporter from the SLC29 (equilibrative nucleoside transporter) family, was shown to transport in vitro monoaminergic neurotransmitters, in particular dopamine and serotonin, nearly as efficiently as the high-affinity transporters. This transporter, well expressed in CNS, represents an interesting candidate for the control and modulation of aminergic pathways. We performed an extensive study of the distribution of PMAT in the rat brain. Our results highlight PMAT expression in brain regions which play a pivotal role in significant CNS functions and human neuropathologies. Using in situ hybridization immunohistochemistry co-labeling, PMAT mRNA was found in various neuron subtypes, including glutamatergic neurons of the hippocampus, mitral cells of the olfactory bulbs and GABAergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars reticulata and hypothalamus. Paradoxically, rat PMAT mRNA was found in some but not all monoaminergic nuclei. It was on the contrary predominantly expressed in major cholinergic groups throughout the brain, including brainstem motor nuclei, components of the basal forebrain cholinergic system and cholinergic interneurons of the striatum. These systems, implicated in locomotion, associative and spatial memory and reward-related learning, are disrupted at early stages of Parkinson's and Alzheimer's disease. Taken together, our observations support a role for PMAT in monoamine uptake in cholinergic neurons.
Our previous report showed that innervation of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP)- and neuropeptide Y (NPY)-containing nerves in rat mesenteric resistance arteries was markedly reduced by topical application of phenol, and that nerve growth factor (NGF) facilitates the reinnervation of both nerves. We also demonstrated that a CGRP superfamily peptide, adrenomedullin, is distributed in perivascular nerves of rat mesenteric resistance arteries. In the present study, we investigated the influence of adrenomedullin on the reinnervation of mesenteric perivascular nerves following topical phenol treatment. Under pentobarbital-Na anesthesia, 8-week-old Wistar rats underwent in vivo topical application of phenol (10% phenol in 90% ethanol) to the superior mesenteric artery proximal to the bifurcation of the abdominal aorta. After the treatment, the animals were subjected to immunohistochemistry of the third branch of small arteries proximal to the intestine and to vascular responsiveness testing on day 7. Topical phenol treatment caused marked reduction of the density of NPY-like immunoreactive (LI)- and CGRP-LI nerve fibers in the arteries. Adrenomedullin (360 or 1000 ng/h) or NGF (250 ng/h), which was administered intraperitoneally for 7 days using an osmotic mini-pump immediately after topical phenol treatment, significantly increased the density of CGRP-LI- and NPY-LI nerve fibers compared with saline. Treatment with adrenomedullin (1000 ng/h) or NGF restored adrenergic nerve-mediated vasoconstriction and CGRP nerve-mediated vasodilation in the perfused mesenteric artery treated topically with phenol. These results suggest that adrenomedullin, like NGF, has a facilitatory effect on the reinnervation of perivascular nerves.
The mouse has emerged as a major experimental model system for examining the functional properties of the mammalian CNS; both during development and following CNS injury. Histologic procedures currently used to determine the relative position of structures within the CNS are presently limited in their ability to take full advantage of this system for surgical and morphometric procedures. We present here the first three-dimensional interactive digital atlas of the murine brain and skull for two genetically important strains of mice; 129S1/SvImJ and C57Bl/6J. The final resolution of these digital atlases is 54 micro m(3). These representations of the murine brain and skull, in conjunction with our development of a new, more dynamic master coordinate system, provide improved accuracy with respect to targeting CNS structures during surgery compared with previous systems. The interactive three-dimensional nature of these atlases also provide users with stereotactic information necessary to perform accurate &quot;off-axis&quot; surgical procedures, as is commonly required for experiments such as in vivo micro-electroporation. In addition, three-dimensional analysis of the brain and skull shape in C57Bl, 129Sv, CD1, and additional murine strains, suggests that a stereotactic coordinate system based upon the lambda and rostral confluence of the sinuses at the sagittal midline, provides improved accuracy compared with the traditional lambda-bregma landmark system. These findings demonstrate the utility of developing highly accurate and robust three-dimensional representations of the murine brain and skull, in which experimental outputs can be directly compared using a unified coordinate system. The aim of these studies is to enhance comparative morphometric analyses and stereotactic surgical procedures in mice.
Presynaptic terminal autoinhibitory muscarinic acetylcholine (ACh) receptors are predominantly of the M2/M4 subtypes and antagonists at these receptors may facilitate cognitive processes by increasing ACh release. The present study examined the ability of the M2/M4 muscarinic ACh receptor antagonist N,N'-bis [6-[[(2-methoxyphenyl)methyl]amino]hexyl]-1,8-octane diamine tetrahydrochloride (methoctramine) to induce and modulate synaptic plasticity in the CA1 area of the hippocampus in urethane-anesthetized rats. Both methoctramine and another M2/M4 antagonist, {11-[[2-[(diethylamino)methyl]-1-piperidinyl]acetyl]-5,11-dihydro-6H-pyrido[2,3-b][1,4]benzodiazepin-6-one} (AF-DX 116), caused a rapid onset and persistent increase in baseline synaptic transmission after i.c.v. injection. Consistent with a requirement for activation of non-M2 receptors by endogenously released ACh, the M1/M3 receptor selective antagonists 4-diphenylacetoxy-N-methylpiperidine methiodide (4-DAMP) and 4,9-dihydro-3-methyl-4-[(4-methyl-1-piperazinyl)acetyl]-10H-thieno[3,4-b][1,5]benzodiazepin-10-one dihydrochloride (telenzepine) prevented the induction of the persistent synaptic enhancement by methoctramine. The requirement for cholinergic activation was transient and independent of nicotinic ACh receptor stimulation. The synaptic enhancement was inhibited by the prior induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) by high frequency stimulation but induction of the synaptic enhancement by methoctramine before high frequency stimulation did not inhibit LTP. Unlike high frequency stimulation-evoked LTP, the synaptic enhancement induced by methoctramine appeared to be NMDA receptor-independent. The present studies provide evidence for the rapid induction of a persistent potentiation at hippocampal glutamatergic synapses by endogenous ACh in vivo following disinhibition of inhibitory M2 muscarinic autoreceptors.
Recombinant adeno-associated viral (rAAV) vector-mediated overexpression of alpha-synuclein (alphaSyn) protein has been shown to cause neurodegeneration of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway in rodents and primates. Using serotype-2 rAAV vectors, we recently reported the protective effect of Parkin on alphaSyn-induced nigral dopaminergic neurodegeneration in a rat model. Here we investigated the neuronal specificity of alphaSyn toxicity and the effect of Parkin co-expression in a primate model. We used another serotype (type-1) of AAV vector that was confirmed to deliver genes of interest anterogradely and retrogradely to neurons in rats. The serotype-1 rAAV (rAAV1) carrying alphaSyn cDNA (rAAV1-alphaSyn), and a cocktail of rAAV1-alphaSyn and rAAV1 carrying parkin cDNA (rAAV1-parkin) were unilaterally injected into the striatum of macaque monkeys, resulting in protein expression in striatonigral GABAergic and nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons. Injection of rAAV1-alphaSyn alone decreased tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity in the striatum compared with the contralateral side injected with a cocktail of rAAV1-alphaSyn and rAAV1-parkin. Immunostaining of striatonigral GABAergic neurons was similar on both sides. Overexpression of Parkin in GABAergic neurons was associated with less accumulation of alphaSyn protein and/or phosphorylation at Ser129 residue. Our results suggest that the toxicity of accumulated alphaSyn is not induced in non-dopaminergic neurons and that the alphaSyn-ablating effect of Parkin is exerted in virtually all neurons in primates.
Mammalian nociceptors have been classified into subclasses based on differential neurotrophin sensitivity and binding of the plant isolectin B4 (IB4). Most of the nerve growth factor-responsive IB4-negative (IB4 (-)) nociceptors contain neuropeptides such as substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide, whereas the glial-derived neurotrophic factor-responsive IB4-positive (IB4 (+)) neurons predominantly lack such neuropeptides. We hypothesized that the differences in neuropeptide content between IB4 (+) and (-) neurons might be reflected in differences in stimulated exocytosis and/or endocytosis. To address this, we monitored the secretory activity of acutely dissociated neurons from adult rat trigeminal ganglia (TRG) using cell membrane capacitance (Cm) measurements and the fluorescent membrane-uptake marker N-(3-triethylammoniumpropyl)-4-(6-(4-(diethylamino)phenyl)hexatrienyl)pyridinium dibromide (FM4-64). Cm measurements were performed under whole-cell voltage clamp and neurons were depolarized from -75 mV to +10 mV to elicit exocytosis. Both types of TRG neurons showed similarly-sized, calcium-dependent increases in Cm, demonstrating that both IB4 (+) and (-) TRG neurons are capable of stimulated exocytosis. However, the peak Cm of IB4 (+) neurons decayed faster toward baseline than that of IB4 (-) neurons. Also, IB4 (+) neurons had stable Cm responses to repeated stimuli whereas IB4 (-) neurons loss their secretory response during repeated stimulation. These data suggested that the IB4 (+) neurons possess a faster rate of endocytosis and vesicle replenishment than IB4 (-) neurons. To test this, we measured vesicle trafficking with the fluorescent membrane dye FM4-64. FM4-64 staining showed that IB4 (-) neurons exhibit a larger pool of endocytosed vesicles than IB4 (+) neurons because the peak fluorescence increases in IB4 (-) neurons were larger but slower than in IB4 (+) neurons. However, the recycled vesicles were released faster in IB4 (+) compared with IB4 (-) neurons. Taken together these data suggest that the IB4 (+) TRG neurons have faster exocytosis and endocytosis than the IB4 (-) neurons.
Kv subfamily member 1.3 (Kv1.3), a member of the Shaker family of potassium channels, has been found to play diverse roles in immunity, metabolism, insulin resistance, sensory discrimination, and axonal targeting in addition to its traditional role in the stabilization of the resting potential. We demonstrate that the neurotrophin B receptor (TrkB) causes an upregulation of Kv1.3 ion channel protein expression in the absence of the preferred ligand for the receptor (brain-derived neurotrophic factor; BDNF) and oppositely downregulates levels of Kv subfamily member 1.5. Although the effect occurs in the absence of the ligand, Kv1.3 upregulation by TrkB is dependent upon the catalytic domain of the TrkB kinase as well as tyrosine (Y) residues in the N and C terminus of the Kv1.3 channel. Using pulse-chase experiments we find that TrkB alters the half-life residence of the channel by approximately 2x and allows it to sustain activity as reflected in an increased current magnitude without alteration of kinetic properties. TrkB and Kv1.3 co-immunoprecipitate from tissue preparations of the mouse olfactory bulb and olfactory cortex, and by immunocytochemical approaches, are found to be co-localized in the glomerular, mitral cell, and internal plexiform layers of the olfactory bulb. These data suggest that Kv1.3 is not only modulated by direct phosphorylation in the presence of BDNF-activated TrkB kinase, but also may be fine tuned via regulation of surface expression while in the proximity of neurotrophic factor receptors. Given the variability of TrkB expression during development, regeneration, or neuronal activation, modulation of surface expression and turnover of Kv channels could significantly impact neuronal excitability, distinct from that of tyrosine kinase phosphorylation.
We have demonstrated earlier that V717G-APP(714-723), the membrane fragment of the V717G (&quot;London&quot;) familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD) mutant of amyloid precursor protein (APP), is a potent stimulator of G-proteins in human brain membranes. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that Met-722 in the V717G-APP(714-723) peptide (P2) plays a critical role in the P2-induced oxidative stimulation of G-proteins in the human temporal cortex membranes and in the neurotoxicity of the peptide in differentiated PC12 and cerebellar granular cells. We found that 10 microM P3, the Met-722 sulfoxide analog of P2, produced a twofold lower stimulation of G-proteins ([(35)S]-GTPgammaS binding) in control temporal cortex membranes compared with 10 microM P2. The stimulatory effect of 10 microM P4, the Met-722 sulfone analog of P2, was 2.5-fold lower than the effect of P2. In Alzheimer's disease (AD) temporal cortex, the P3 and P4 stimulation of G-proteins was slightly weaker than the P2 stimulation. Substitution of the Met-722 S-atom in P2 by -CH(2)- group (P5) led to the disappearance of P2 stimulatory effect on G-proteins. Glutathione (GSH), melatonin (Mel), desferrioxamine (DFO) and 17-beta-estradiol (17betaE) significantly reduced P2 stimulatory effect on G-proteins in human brain. Only DFO and Mel were able to reduce the moderate stimulation of G-proteins by P3, whereas none of the tested antioxidants influenced the weak stimulation by P4. P2 at 100 microM induced a 40% decrease in PC12 cell viability as revealed by MTT assay, the effect being significantly higher than that of P3 or P4, whereas P1 (wild-type APP(714-723)) did not affect cell viability. Trypan Blue exclusion assay demonstrated that 10 microM P2 and P3 induced 3.8- and 3.5-fold death in the cerebellar granular cells as compared with the respective control values. P1 and P4 at 10 microM induced 1.7- and 2.3-fold increase in cell death, respectively. Treatment of the cerebellar granular cells with pertussis toxin decreased the high neurotoxicity of P2 and P3, whereas the low toxicity of P1 and P4 was not influenced. These results support the hypothesis that the G-protein stimulatory effect and neurotoxicity of &quot;London&quot;-mutated V717G-APP(714-723) (P2) and its Met-722 oxidized analogs involve oxidative-dependent and oxidative-independent mechanisms and the oxidation state of Met-722 plays a critical role in determining the mechanism.
The infralimbic (IL) 'visceromotor' area of the rat medial prefrontal cortex projects to strategic subcortical nuclei involved in autonomic functions. Central among these targets are the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) and the rostral ventrolateral medulla (rVLM). By combining tract-tracing using the anterograde tracer biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) with immunolabeling for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH; an enzyme marker of catecholaminergic neurons), a limited proportion of BDA-labeled IL axonal boutons in the NTS and rVLM was found to be closely associated with TH immunopositive (+) target structures. Such structural appositions were mainly located proximally over the labeled dendritic arbors of identified TH+ neurons. Quantitative ultrastructural examination revealed that in NTS, TH+ dendritic shafts comprised 7.0% of the overall post-synaptic target population innervated by BDA-labeled IL boutons, whereas TH+ dendritic spines represented 1.25% of targets. In rVLM, TH+ shafts represented 9.0% and TH+ spines 2.5% of IL targets. Labeled IL boutons established exclusively asymmetric Gray Type 1 (presumed excitatory) synaptic junctions. The results indicate that subpopulations of catecholaminergic neurons in the NTS and rVLM are among the spectrum of post-synaptic neurons monosynaptically innervated by descending 'excitatory' input from IL cortex. Such connectivity, albeit restricted, identifies the potential direct influence of IL cortex on the processing and distribution of cardiovascular, respiratory and related autonomic information by catecholaminergic neurons in the NTS and VLM of the rat.
Environmental enrichment promotes structural and behavioral plasticity in the adult brain. We have evaluated the efficacy of enriched environment on the dendritic morphology and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression in the hippocampus of ventral subicular-lesioned rats. Bilateral ventral subicular lesion has significantly reduced the dendritic architecture and spine density of hippocampal pyramidal neurons. The lesioned rats exposed to enriched housing for 10 days showed a significant degree of morphological plasticity in terms of enhanced dendritic branching and spine density. However, the BDNF expression in the hippocampus remained unchanged following subicular lesion and following environmental enrichment. We suggest the participation of other neurotrophic factors in mediating the synaptic plasticity events following exposure to environmental enrichment in ventral subicular-lesioned rats.
Substance P (SP) is known to be a peptide that facilitates epileptic activity of principal cells in the hippocampus. Paradoxically, in other models, it was found to be protective against seizures by activating substance P receptor (SPR)-expressing interneurons. Thus, these cells appear to play an important role in the generation and regulation of epileptic seizures. The number, distribution, morphological features and input characteristics of SPR-immunoreactive cells were analyzed in surgically removed hippocampi of 28 temporal lobe epileptic patients and eight control hippocampi in order to examine their changes in epileptic tissues. SPR is expressed in a subset of inhibitory cells in the control human hippocampus, they are multipolar interneurons with smooth dendrites, present in all hippocampal subfields. This cell population is considerably different from SPR-positive cells of the rat hippocampus. The CA1 (cornu Ammonis subfield 1) region was chosen for the detailed morphological analysis of the SPR-immunoreactive cells because of its extreme vulnerability in epilepsy. The presence of various neurochemical markers identifies functionally distinct interneuron types, such as those responsible for perisomatic, dendritic or interneuron-selective inhibition. We found considerable colocalization of SPR with calbindin but not with parvalbumin, calretinin, cholecystokinin and somatostatin, therefore we suppose that SPR-positive cells participate mainly in dendritic inhibition. In the non-sclerotic CA1 region they are mainly preserved, whereas their number is decreased in the sclerotic cases. In the epileptic samples their morphology is considerably altered, they possessed more dendritic branches, which often became beaded. Analyses of synaptic coverage revealed that the ratio of symmetric synaptic input of SPR-immunoreactive cells has increased in epileptic samples. Our results suggest that SPR-positive cells are preserved while principal cells are present in the CA1 region, but show reactive changes in epilepsy including intense branching and growth of their dendritic arborization.
The contribution of the parabrachial nucleus to the mediation of bladder contraction was examined in the rat. Constant infusion (0.1 ml/min) of saline or 0.2% acetic acid evoked normal or abnormal bladder contractions, respectively. Single unit activity was recorded in the parabrachial nucleus with tungsten microelectrodes. Seven units with activity that was correlated with bladder contraction during saline infusion were located in the lateral subnuclei and three units were located in the medial subnuclei of the parabrachial nucleus. Twelve units with activity that was correlated with abnormal bladder contractions were found widely distributed in the parabrachial nucleus. An inverse correlation of activity to normal or abnormal bladder contractions was identified in 11 units in the parabrachial nucleus. Pressure injection of 5 mM CoCl(2) into the parabrachial nucleus was used to block synaptic transmission unilaterally. Normal bladder contractions evoked by saline infusion were disrupted by 5 of 10 injections, 4 of them in the medial subnuclei of the parabrachial nucleus and one in the lateral subnuclei. Abnormal bladder contractions were converted to a normal pattern in nine experiments where CoCl(2) injections lay in the lateral subnuclei of the parabrachial nucleus. In five experiments, CoCl(2) disrupted abnormal bladder contractions; four effective sites were located in the lateral subnucleus and one lay in the medial subnucleus of the parabrachial nucleus. These data demonstrated that single units responding to both normal and abnormal contractions were located throughout the parabrachial nuclei whereas the lateral subnuclei play a predominant role in mediation of abnormal bladder contractions and the medial subnuclei play a predominant role in the mediation of normal bladder contractions.
The noradrenergic nucleus locus coeruleus (LC) has a direct projection to the basal lateral amygdala (BLA). Behavioral, lesion and pharmacological studies suggest that this pathway has an important role in mediating responses to emotional stimuli and in the formation of long term memory. The effect of LC activation on the activity of BLA neurons in vivo is not known. Therefore, in the present experiments, simultaneous extracellular unit recordings were made in the two regions while the anesthetized rat received electrical stimulation of the paw to simulate a real-life acute stressor, commonly used as an aversive reinforcer in conditioning experiments. All LC neurons exhibited a multiphasic excitatory response followed by prolonged inhibition. Responses of BLA cells were more heterogeneous, but predominantly inhibitory, with a release from inhibition during the refractory phase of LC. Direct electrical stimulation of the LC with a single pulse also elicited an inhibitory response in BLA. BLA response to both footshock and LC stimulation was partially blocked by the beta adrenergic receptor antagonist, timolol, infused into the BLA. These experiments are the first to report in vivo effects of activation of the noradrenergic system on neuronal activity in the BLA.
The genetically dystonic (dt) rat, an autosomal recessive model of generalized dystonia, harbors an insertional mutation in Atcay. As a result, dt rats are deficient in Atcay transcript and the neuronally-restricted protein caytaxin. Previous electrophysiological and biochemical studies have defined olivocerebellar pathways, particularly the climbing fiber projection to Purkinje cells, as sites of significant functional abnormality in dt rats. In normal rats, Atcay transcript is abundantly expressed in the granular and Purkinje cell layers of cerebellar cortex. To better understand the consequences of caytaxin deficiency in cerebellar cortex, differential gene expression was examined in dt rats and their normal littermates. Data from oligonucleotide microarrays and quantitative real-time reverse transcriptase-PCR (QRT-PCR) identified phosphatidylinositol signaling pathways, calcium homeostasis, and extracellular matrix interactions as domains of cellular dysfunction in dt rats. In dt rats, genes encoding the corticotropin-releasing hormone receptor 1 (CRH-R1, Crhr1) and plasma membrane calcium-dependent ATPase 4 (PMCA4, Atp2b4) showed the greatest up-regulation with QRT-PCR. Immunocytochemical experiments demonstrated that CRH-R1, CRH, and PMCA4 were up-regulated in cerebellar cortex of mutant rats. Along with previous electrophysiological and pharmacological studies, our data indicate that caytaxin plays a critical role in the molecular response of Purkinje cells to climbing fiber input. Caytaxin may also contribute to maturational events in cerebellar cortex.
Using highly specific antisera directed against conjugated d-amino acids, the distribution of d-glutamate-, d-tryptophan-, d-cysteine-, d-tyrosine- and d-methionine-immunoreactive structures in the rat brain was studied. Cell bodies containing d-glutamate, but not d-glutamate-immunoreactive fibers, were found. Perikarya containing this d-amino acid were only found in the mesencephalon and thalamus of the rat CNS. Thus, the highest density of cell bodies containing d-glutamate was observed in the dorsal raphe nucleus, the ventral part of the mesencephalic central gray, the superior colliculus, above the posterior commissure, and in the subparafascicular thalamic nucleus. A moderate density of immunoreactive cell bodies was observed in the dorsal part of the mesencephalic central gray, above the rostral linear nucleus of the raphe, the nucleus of Darkschewitsch, and in the medial habenular nucleus, whereas a low density was found below the medial forebrain bundle and in the posterior thalamic nuclear group. Moreover, no immunoreactive fibers or cell bodies were visualized containing d-tryptophan, d-cysteine, d-tyrosine or d-methionine in the rat brain. The distribution of d-glutamate-immunoreactive cell bodies in the rat brain suggests that this d-amino acid could be involved in several physiological mechanisms. This work reports the first visualization and the morphological characteristics of conjugated d-glutamate-immunoreactive cell bodies in the rat CNS using an indirect immunoperoxidase technique. Our results suggest that the immunoreactive neurons observed have an uptake mechanism for d-glutamate.
Deprenyl is a selective monoamine oxidase (MAO) B inhibitor, widely used for treatment of Parkinson's disease. The present study shows that deprenyl treatment was able to improve mitochondrial function. Fourteen month old mice were injected i.p. with deprenyl (20 mg/kg) and killed 1.5 h after the administration. Different brain subcellular fractions were isolated from control and deprenyl-treated animals to evaluate the effect of deprenyl on nitric oxide synthase (NOS) activity. Oxygen consumption, hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) production, mitochondrial membrane potential and calcium-induced permeability transition (MPT) were studied in intact mitochondria. In addition, the effect of deprenyl on respiratory complexes and MAO activities were evaluated in submitochondrial particles (SMP). Monoamine oxidase activity was found to be decreased by 55% in mitochondria from deprenyl-treated animals and as a consequence, H(2)O(2) production was significantly decreased. Deprenyl inhibited NOS activity in cytosolic fractions and SMP by 40% and 55%, respectively. In similar conditions, SMP from deprenyl-treated animals showed increased cytochrome oxidase activity. A 51% increase in the oxygen uptake in state 3 (active respiration state) was found after deprenyl treatment, but no significant changes were observed in state 4 (resting respiration state). Deprenyl treatment protected against calcium-induced depolarization and was able to inhibit calcium-induced MPT. This work provides evidence that deprenyl treatment exerts an improvement of brain mitochondrial function, through a reduction of free radical production, prevention of calcium-induced MPT and maintaining a mitochondrial transmembrane potential.
Cocaine inhibits survival and growth of rat locus coeruleus (LC) neurons, which may mediate alterations in attention, following in utero exposure to cocaine. These effects are most severe in early gestation during peak neuritogenesis. Prenatal cocaine exposure may specifically decrease LC survival through an apoptotic pathway involving caspases. Dissociated fetal LC neurons or substantia nigra (SN) neurons (control) were exposed in vitro to a pharmacologically active dose of cocaine hydrochloride (500 ng/ml) and assayed for apoptosis using terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase mediated DNA nick end labeling and Hoechst methodologies. Cocaine exposure decreased survival and induced apoptosis in LC neurons, with no changes in survival of SN neurons. Activation of apoptotic signal transduction proteins was determined using enzyme assays and immunoblotting at 30 min, 1 h, 4 h and 24 h. In LC neurons, Bax levels were induced at 30 min and 1 h, following cocaine treatment, and Bcl-2 levels remained unchanged at all time points, altering the Bax/Bcl-2 ratio. The ratio was reversed for SN neurons (elevated Bcl-2 levels and transient reduction of Bax levels). Further, cocaine exposure significantly increased caspase-9 and caspase-3 activities at all time points, without changes in caspase-8 activity in LC neurons. In addition, cleavage of caspase-3 target proteins, alpha-fodrin and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) were observed following cocaine treatment. In contrast, SN neurons showed either significant reductions, or no significant changes, in caspase-3, -8 or -9 activities or caspase-3 target proteins, alpha-fodrin and PARP. Thus, cocaine exposure in vitro may preferentially induce apoptosis in fetal LC neurons putatively regulated by Bax, via activation of caspases and their downstream target proteins.
The effect of delayed 2-amino-6-trifluoromethoxy-benzothiazole (riluzole) treatment on injured motoneurons was studied. The L4 ventral root of adult rats was avulsed and reimplanted into the spinal cord. Immediately after the operation or with a delay of 5, 10, 14 or 16 days animals were treated with riluzole (n=5 in each group) while another four animals remained untreated. Three months after the operation the fluorescent dye Fast Blue was applied to the proximal end of the cut ventral ramus of the L4 spinal nerve to retrogradely label reinnervating neurons. Three days later the spinal cords were processed for counting the retrogradely labeled cells and choline acetyltransferase immunohistochemistry was performed to reveal the cholinergic cells in the spinal cords. In untreated animals there were 20.4+/-1.6 (+/-S.E.M.) retrogradely labeled neurons while in animals treated with riluzole immediately or 5 and 10 days after ventral root avulsion the number of labeled motoneurons ranged between 763+/-36 and 815+/-50 (S.E.M.). Riluzole treatment starting at 14 and 16 days after injury resulted in significantly lower number of reinnervating motoneurons (67+/-4 and 52+/-3 S.E.M., respectively). Thus, riluzole dramatically enhanced the survival and reinnervating capacity of injured motoneurons not only when treatment started immediately after injury but also in cases when riluzole treatment was delayed for up to 10 days. These results suggest that motoneurons destined to die after ventral root avulsion are programmed to survive for some time after injury and riluzole is able to rescue them during this period of time.
Birds display hemispheric specific modes of visual processing with a dominance of the right eye/left hemisphere for detailed visual object analysis. In pigeons, this behavioral lateralization is accompanied by morphological left-right differences in the ascending tectofugal pathway. This system is also asymmetrically modulated by descending telencephalotectal input whereby the left forebrain displays a much more pronounced physiological control over ipsilateral left and contralateral right visual thalamic processes. In the present study we aimed to answer the question if this top-down asymmetry that up to now had been demonstrated in single cell recording studies is due to anatomical asymmetries in the size of the fiber systems descending from the telencephalon to the tectum. We approached this question by means of a quantitative retrograde tracing study. Cholera toxin subunit B (CtB) was injected unilaterally into either the left or right optic tectum of adult pigeons. After immunohistochemical detection of CtB-positive cells, the number of ipsi- and contralaterally projecting neurons was estimated. Retrogradely labeled cells were located within the arcopallium, the hyperpallium apicale (HA) and the temporo-parieto-occipital area (TPO). Descending projections from HA, arcopallium, and TPO were mainly or exclusively ipsilateral with the contralateral projection being extremely small. Moreover, there was no difference between left and right hemispheric projections. These anatomical data sharply contrast with behavioral and electrophysiological ones which reveal an asymmetric and bilateral top down control. Therefore, contralateral and lateralized forebrain influences onto tectofugal processing are possibly not the direct result of asymmetrical descending axon numbers. Those influences emerge by a lateralized intra- and/or interhemispheric integration of ascending and descending input onto the rotundus.
Chemotherapeutics in the taxane and vinca-alkaloid classes sometimes produce a painful peripheral neuropathy for which there is no validated treatment. Experiments with rat models of paclitaxel- and vincristine-evoked pain suggest that these conditions may not respond to all of the analgesics that have efficacy in other models of painful peripheral neuropathy. We tested gabapentin as a potential analgesic for paclitaxel- and vincristine-evoked pain. We used a repeated dosing paradigm because there are precedents showing that repeated drug exposure may be necessary to demonstrate analgesia in neuropathic pain models. Gabapentin is believed to work via binding to voltage-gated calcium channels that contain the alpha-2-delta type-1 (alpha(2)delta-1) subunit, and the expression of this subunit is known to be increased in some painful peripheral neuropathy models. Thus we also examined whether the paclitaxel-evoked pain syndrome was accompanied by an alpha(2)delta-1 increase, and whether gabapentin had any effect on subunit expression. We found that the paclitaxel- and vincristine-evoked mechano-allodynia and mechano-hyperalgesia were significantly reduced by gabapentin, but only with repeated dosing. Paclitaxel-evoked painful peripheral neuropathy was associated with an increased expression of the alpha(2)delta-1 subunit in the spinal dorsal horn, but not in the dorsal root ganglia. The spinal cord increase was normalized by repeated gabapentin injections. Together, these findings suggest that repeated dosing with gabapentin may be beneficial in patients with chemotherapy-evoked painful peripheral neuropathy and that gabapentin's mechanisms of action may include normalization of the nerve injury-evoked increase in calcium channel alpha(2)delta-1 subunit expression.
Intracerebral hemorrhage represents stroke characterized by formation and expansion of hematoma within brain parenchyma. Blood-derived factors released from hematoma are considered to be involved in poor prognosis of this disorder. We previously reported that thrombin, a blood-derived serine protease, induced cytotoxicity in the cerebral cortex and the striatum in organotypic slice cultures, which depended on mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathways. Here we investigated the mechanisms of thrombin cytotoxicity in the striatum in vivo. Thrombin microinjected into the striatum of adult rats induced neuronal death and microglial activation around the injection site. Neuronal loss without any sign of nuclear fragmentation was observed as early as 4 h after thrombin injection, which was followed by gradual neuronal death exhibiting nuclear fragmentation. Thrombin-induced damage assessed at 72 h after injection was partially but significantly reduced by concomitant administration of inhibitors of MAPK pathways. Activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) and p38 MAPK in response to thrombin was verified by Western blot analysis. Moreover, phosphorylated ERK and p38 MAPK were localized prominently in reactive microglia, and inhibition of microglial activation by minocycline attenuated thrombin-induced damage, suggesting that reactive microglia were responsible for thrombin-induced neuronal death. Thus, MAPK pathways and microglial activation may serve as therapeutic targets of pathogenic conditions associated with hemorrhagic stroke.
The striatum is one of the brain areas most vulnerable to excitotoxicity, a lesion that can be prevented by neurotrophins. In the present study, intrastriatal injection of the N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) agonist quinolinate (QUIN) was performed in mice heterozygous for neurotrophin-3 (NT3 +/-) or brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF +/-) to analyze the role of endogenous neurotrophins on the regulation of striatal neurons susceptibility to excitotoxic injury. QUIN injection induced a decrease in dopamine- and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein of 32 kDa (DARPP-32) protein levels that was higher in NT-3 +/- than in BDNF+/- or wild type animals. This enhanced susceptibility was specific for enkephalin- and tachykinin-positive projection neurons, and also for parvalbumin-positive interneurons. However the excitotoxic damage in large interneurons was not modified in NT-3 +/- mice compared with wild type animals. This effect can be related to the regulation of NMDARs by endogenous NT-3. Thus, our results show that there is an age-dependent regulation of NMDAR subunits NR1 and NR2A, but not NR2B, in NT-3 +/- mice. The deficit of endogenous NT-3 induced a decrease in NR1 and NR2A subunits at postnatal day (P) 0 and P3 mice respectively, whereas an upregulation was observed in 12 week old NT-3 +/- mice. This differential effect was also observed after administration of exogenous NT-3. In primary striatal cultures, NT-3 treatment induced an enhancement in NR2A, but not NR2B, protein levels. However, intrastriatal grafting of NT-3 secreting-cells in adult wild type mice produced a down-regulation of NR2A subunit. In conclusion, NT-3 regulates the expression of NMDAR subunits modifying striatal neuronal properties that confers the differential vulnerability to excitotoxicity in projection neurons and interneurons in the striatum.
Age-related changes in the number and size of large cholinergic terminals immunoreactive for vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT), were documented for the dorsolateral nucleus (DLN), retrodorsolateral nucleus (RDLN) and spinal nucleus of the bulbospongiosus (SNB) of the lumbosacral spinal cord of male rats. The most significant changes were a large increase in the number and size of cholinergic terminals within the DLN of aged animals, together with a small decrease in terminal number within the RDLN. No significant age-associated differences in VAChT labeling were seen within the SNB. In both age groups, SNB motoneurons projecting to the levator ani muscle received about 9 to 10 contacts from large cholinergic terminals. Ultrastructural examination of the terminals revealed structures likely to be postsynaptic subsurface cisterns that are characteristic of type C terminal boutons. Since both the DLN and SNB contain motoneurons innervating pelvic muscles and sphincters, these findings provide further evidence for a central cholinergic influence on micturition and sexual reflexes and suggest that this may remain robust in the face of ageing.
Increased interest is being raised on the interaction between systemic inflammation and the brain. The choroid plexus (CP) constitutes a monolayer of epithelial cells located within the brain ventricles and is responsible for the production of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Despite the knowledge that the CP capillaries are fenestrated, allowing free passage of molecules and cells, the involvement of the vast blood-brain boundary represented by the CP/CSF barrier in brain inflammatory processes has seldom been considered. In the present study we investigate, in mice, how the expression of genes encoding major constitutively expressed CP proteins is influenced by a systemic inflammatory stimulus. Confirming that the CP responds to peripheral inflammation, the messenger RNA (mRNA) levels of the pro-inflammatory cytokines interleukin 1 beta and tumor necrosis factor alpha are rapidly induced. As for the constitutively expressed proteins, while the mRNA for genes encoding transthyretin and transferrin remain unaltered by the inflammatory challenge, that for prostaglandin D2 synthase (LPTGDS) is up-regulated at 6 h, and stays up-regulated up to 24 h after lipopolysacharide administration. Accordingly, LPTGDS CSF levels are also augmented. LPTGDS catalyzes the synthesis of the major prostanoid of the CNS and, being increased in the CSF, might mediate immune signaling into the brain. These observations emphasize that the CP must be considered a relevant mediator of immune signals between the periphery and the brain.
We report the cloning and molecular characterization of the zfPDYN. The complete open reading frame for this propeptide is comprised in two exons that are localized on chromosome 23. zfPDYN cDNA codes for a polypeptide of 252 amino acids that contains the consensus sequences for four opioid peptides: an Ile-enkephalin, the neo-endorphins, dynorphin A and dynorphin B. Upon comparison between zebrafish (zfDYN A) and mammalian dynorphin A (mDYN A) it has been stated that these two peptides only differ in two amino acids: the Leu(5) is replaced by Met(5) and the Lys(13) by Arg(13). Taking into consideration that mDYN A is able to bind to the three mammalian opioid receptors, we have compared the pharmacological profile of zfDYN A and mDYN A on the zebrafish opioid receptors. By means of radioligand binding techniques, we have established that these two dynorphins bind and activate all of the cloned opioid receptors from zebrafish (delta-, mu- and kappa-like), although with different affinities. zfDYN A and mDYN A displace [(3)H]-diprenorphine binding with K(i) values on the nanomolar range, showing greater affinity for zebrafish opioid receptor (ZFOR) 3 (kappa) receptor. ZFOR1 (delta) and ZFOR4 (delta) present higher affinity for zfDYN A than for mDYN A, while the opposing behavior is observed in ZFOR2 (mu). Functional [(35)S]guanosine 5'-[gamma-thio]triphosphate (GTPgammaS) stimulation experiments indicate that these two peptides fully activate the zebrafish opioid receptors, although the mean effective dose (EC(50)) values obtained for ZFOR2 and ZFOR3 receptors are lower than those seen for ZFOR1 and ZFOR4. A comparative study indicates that mammalian and zebrafish opioid receptors might bind their corresponding dynorphin A in a similar fashion, hence suggesting an important role of the opioid system through the vertebrate evolution.
The pineal hormone melatonin nocturnal synthesis feeds back on the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN), the central circadian clock. Indeed, daily melatonin injections in free-running rats resynchronize their locomotor activity to 24 h. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying this chronobiotic effect of the hormone are poorly understood. The endogenous circadian machinery involves positive and negative transcriptional feedback loops implicating different genes (particularly period (Per) 1-3, Clock, Bmal1, cryptochrome (Cry) 1-2). While CLOCK:BMAL1 heterodimer activates the rhythmic transcription of per and cry genes, the PER and CRY proteins inhibit the CLOCK:BMAL1 complex. In previous studies, we observed that the immediate resetting effect of a melatonin injection at the end of the subjective day on the SCN circadian activity did not directly involve the above-mentioned clock genes. Recently, nuclear orphan receptors (NORs) have been presented as functional links between the regulatory loops of the molecular clock. These NORs bind to a retinoic acid receptor-related orphan receptor response element (RORE) domain and activate (RORalpha) or repress (REV-ERBalpha) bmal1 expression. In this study, we investigated whether melatonin exerts its chronobiotic effects through transcriptional regulation of these transcription factors. We monitored roralpha, rorbeta and rev-erbalpha messenger RNA (mRNA) expression levels by quantitative in situ hybridization, up to 36 h following a melatonin injection at circadian time (CT) 11.5. Results clearly showed that, while roralpha was not affected by melatonin, the hormone partially prevented the decrease of the rorbeta mRNA expression observed in control animals during the first hours following the injection. The major result is that the rev-erbalpha mRNA expression rhythm was 1.3+/-0.8-h phase-advanced in melatonin-treated animals during the first subjective night following the melatonin administration. Moreover, the bmal1 mRNA expression was 1.9+/-0.9-h phase-shifted in the second subjective night following the melatonin injection. These results clearly suggest that the NOR genes could be the link between the chronobiotic action of melatonin and the core of the molecular circadian clock.
Restricted feeding schedules (RF) in which daily access to food is limited to a few hours each day can entrain the rhythms of expression of circadian clock genes in the brain and periphery in rodents. The critical factors mediating the effect of RF on rhythms of clock gene expression are unknown. Previously, we demonstrated that daytime RF shifts the phase of expression of the clock protein, Period2 (PER2) in the oval nucleus of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis in rats kept on a 12-h light/dark cycle, and restored the rhythm of PER2 expression in rats housed in constant light. We now report that RF also modifies the rhythms of PER2 expression in the central and basolateral nuclei of the amygdala and in the dentate gyrus, such that all three areas become synchronized, peaking 12 h after the time of food presentation. Daily limited access to sucrose or saccharine in freely fed rats or scheduled access to saline in sodium-deprived rats had no effect on these PER2 rhythms. Thus, it would appear that the rhythms of PER2 in limbic forebrain structures are sensitive to signals that arise from the alleviation of a negative metabolic state associated with scheduled feeding and that access to rewarding substances in the absence of food deprivation or metabolic challenges, per se, is not sufficient to alter the rhythms of PER2 expression in these regions.
In the European rabbit (Oryctolagus cuniculus) nursing acts as a strong non-photic synchronizer of circadian rhythmicity in the newborn young. Rabbits only nurse for a few minutes once every 24 h and previous studies have shown that the pups, blind at birth, display endogenous circadian rhythms in behavior and physiology entrained by this regular daily event. As a further step toward understanding the neural organization of the rabbit's early circadian system, we investigated the expression of clock genes in the suprachiasmatic nucleus of the hypothalamus (SCN; the principal circadian pacemaker in adult mammals) across the pups' 24-h day. We used 43 pups from seven litters maintained in constant darkness and entrained non-photically by nursing at the same time each day until P7. After nursing on day 7, pups were killed in the dark at 3-h intervals so as to obtain eight groups (n=5-6 pups/group) distributed evenly across the 24 h before the next scheduled nursing. Profiles in the expression of the clock genes Per1, Per2, Cry1 and Bmal1 were determined using in situ hybridization in brain sections through the hypothalamus at the level of the SCN. We report for the first time: 1) that Per1, Per2, Cry1 and Bmal1 are all expressed in the SCN of the newborn rabbit, 2) that the expression of Per1, Per2 and Bmal1 but not Cry1 shows diurnal rhythmicity similar to that in adult mammals, and 3) that the expression of Per1, Per2 and Bmal1 is consistent with the strong entraining effect of nursing found in previous studies. Unexpectedly, and contrasting somewhat to the pattern in the SCN, we also found diurnal rhythmicity in the expression of Cry1 and Bmal1 but not of Per1 in the anterior ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus. Overall, our findings suggest that the SCN is a functional part of the newborn rabbit's circadian system and that it can be entrained by non-photic cues associated with the mother's daily nursing visit.
The understanding of emergent collective phenomena in natural and social systems has driven the interest of scientists from different disciplines during decades. Among these phenomena, the synchronization of a set of interacting individuals or units has been intensively studied because of its ubiquity in the natural world. In this Letter, we show how for fixed coupling strengths local patterns of synchronization emerge differently in homogeneous and heterogeneous complex networks, driving the process towards a certain global synchronization degree following different paths. The dependence of the dynamics on the coupling strength and on the topology is unveiled. This study provides a new perspective and tools to understand this emerging phenomena.
Many limb movements are composed of alternating flexions and extensions. However, the underlying spinal network mechanisms remain poorly defined. Here, we show that the intensity of synaptic excitation and inhibition in limb motoneurons varies in phase rather than out of phase during rhythmic scratchlike network activity in the turtle. Inhibition and excitation peak with the total neuron conductance during the depolarizing waves of scratch episodes. Furthermore, spike activity is driven by depolarizing synaptic transients rather than pacemaker properties. These findings show that balanced excitation and inhibition and irregular firing are fundamental motifs in certain spinal network functions.


It is a commonly held view that numbers are represented in an abstract way in both parietal lobes. This view is based on failures to find differences between various notational representations. Here we show that by using relatively smaller voxels together with an adaptation paradigm and analyzing subjects on an individual basis it is possible to detect specialized numerical representations. The current results reveal a left/right asymmetry in parietal lobe function. In contrast to an abstract representation in the left parietal lobe, the numerical representation in the right parietal lobe is notation dependent and thus includes nonabstract representations. Our results challenge the commonly held belief that numbers are represented solely in an abstract way in the human brain.
Recent anatomical, physiological, and neuroimaging findings indicate multisensory convergence at early, putatively unisensory stages of cortical processing. The objective of this study was to confirm somatosensory-auditory interaction in A1 and to define both its physiological mechanisms and its consequences for auditory information processing. Laminar current source density and multiunit activity sampled during multielectrode penetrations of primary auditory area A1 in awake macaques revealed clear somatosensory-auditory interactions, with a novel mechanism: somatosensory inputs appear to reset the phase of ongoing neuronal oscillations, so that accompanying auditory inputs arrive during an ideal, high-excitability phase, and produce amplified neuronal responses. In contrast, responses to auditory inputs arriving during the opposing low-excitability phase tend to be suppressed. Our findings underscore the instrumental role of neuronal oscillations in cortical operations. The timing and laminar profile of the multisensory interactions in A1 indicate that nonspecific thalamic systems may play a key role in the effect.
GABA(B) receptors are heterodimeric G protein-coupled receptors composed of R1 and R2 subunits that mediate slow synaptic inhibition in the brain by activating inwardly rectifying K(+) channels (GIRKs) and inhibiting Ca(2+) channels. We demonstrate here that GABA(B) receptors are intimately associated with 5'AMP-dependent protein kinase (AMPK). AMPK acts as a metabolic sensor that is potently activated by increases in 5'AMP concentration that are caused by enhanced metabolic activity, anoxia, or ischemia. AMPK binds the R1 subunit and directly phosphorylates S783 in the R2 subunit to enhance GABA(B) receptor activation of GIRKs. Phosphorylation of S783 is evident in many brain regions, and is increased dramatically after ischemic injury. Finally, we also reveal that S783 plays a critical role in enhancing neuronal survival after ischemia. Together our results provide evidence of a neuroprotective mechanism, which, under conditions of metabolic stress or after ischemia, increases GABA(B) receptor function to reduce excitotoxicity and thereby promotes neuronal survival.
Axon-axon interactions have been implicated in neural circuit assembly, but the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. Here, we show that in the Drosophila antennal lobe, early-arriving axons of olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) from the antenna are required for the proper targeting of late-arriving ORN axons from the maxillary palp (MP). Semaphorin-1a is required for targeting of all MP but only half of the antennal ORN classes examined. Sema-1a acts nonautonomously to control ORN axon-axon interactions, in contrast to its cell-autonomous function in olfactory projection neurons. Phenotypic and genetic interaction analyses implicate PlexinA as the Sema-1a receptor in ORN targeting. Sema-1a on antennal ORN axons is required for correct targeting of MP axons within the antennal lobe, while interactions amongst MP axons facilitate their entry into the antennal lobe. We propose that Sema-1a/PlexinA-mediated repulsion provides a mechanism by which early-arriving ORN axons constrain the target choices of late-arriving axons.
Most, if not all, of the neocortex is multisensory, but the mechanisms by which different cortical areas - association versus sensory, for instance - integrate multisensory inputs are not known. The study by Lakatos et al. reveals that, in the primary auditory cortex, the phase of neural oscillations is reset by somatosensory inputs, and subsequent auditory inputs are enhanced or suppressed, depending on their timing relative to the oscillatory cycle.
The convergence of olfactory sensory axons that express the same receptor onto specific glomeruli is a common organizing principle in animal olfactory systems. In this issue of Neuron, two beautiful studies in Drosophila by Lattemann et al. and Sweeney et al. show that Semaphorin repulsion regulates interactions between olfactory receptor neurons to help axons find their correct targets.
We and others have reported the presence of novel progastrin (PG)/gastrin receptors on normal and cancerous intestinal cells. We had earlier reported the presence of 33-36 kDa gastrin-binding proteins on cellular membranes of colon cancer cells. The goal of the current study was to identify the protein(s) in the 33-36 kDa band, and analyse its functional significance. A carbodiimide crosslinker was used for crosslinking radio-labeled gastrins to membrane proteins from gastrin/PG responsive cell lines. Native membrane proteins, crosslinked to the ligand, were solubulized and enriched by &gt;1000-fold, and analysed by surface-enhanced laser desorption/ionization-time of flight-mass spectrometry. The peptide masses were researched against the NCBInr database using the ProFound search engine. Annexin II (ANX II) was identified, and confirmed by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-time of flight-mass spectrometry. As HCT-116 cells express autocrine PG, the in situ association of PG with ANX II was demonstrated in pulldown assays. Direct binding of PG with ANX II was confirmed in an in vitro binding assay. In order to confirm a functional importance of these observations, sense and anti-sense (AS) ANX II RNA-expressing clones of intestinal epithelial (IEC-18) and human colon cancer (HCT-116) cell lines were generated. AS clones demonstrated a significant loss in the growth response to exogenous (IEC-18) and autocrine (HCT-116) PG. We have thus discovered that membrane-associated ANX II binds PG/gastrins, and partially mediates growth factor effects of the peptides.
Numerous studies have established a pivotal role for Abeta42 in Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis. In contrast, although Abeta40 is the predominant form of amyloid beta (Abeta) produced and accumulates to a variable degree in the human AD brain, its role in AD pathogenesis has not been established. It has generally been assumed that an increase in Abeta40 would accelerate amyloid plaque formation in vivo. We have crossed BRI-Abeta40 mice that selectively express high levels of Abeta40 with both Tg2576 (APPswe, K670N+M671L) mice and BRI-Abeta42A mice expressing Abeta42 selectively and analyzed parenchymal and cerebrovascular Abeta deposition in the bitransgenic mice compared with their singly transgenic littermates. In the bitransgenic mice, the increased steady-state levels of Abeta40 decreased Abeta deposition by 60-90%. These results demonstrate that Abeta42 and Abeta40 have opposing effects on amyloid deposition: Abeta42 promotes amyloid deposition but Abeta40 inhibits it. In addition, increasing Abeta40 levels protected BRI-Abeta40/Tg2576 mice from the premature-death phenotype observed in Tg2576 mice. The protective properties of Abeta40 with respect to amyloid deposition suggest that strategies that preferentially target Abeta40 may actually worsen the disease course and that selective increases in Abeta40 levels may actually reduce the risk for development of AD.
Null mutations in the transient receptor potential (trp) gene eliminate the major, Ca2+-selective component of the light-sensitive conductance in Drosophila photoreceptors. Although it is the prototypical member of the TRP ion channel superfamily, conclusive evidence that TRP is a pore-forming channel subunit in vivo is lacking. We show here that mutating a specific acidic residue (Asp621) in the putative pore virtually eliminated Ca2+ permeation in vivo and altered other biophysical properties of the native TRP conductance. The results identify Asp621 as a critical residue of the TRP Ca2+ selectivity filter, provide the first rigorous demonstration that a TRP protein is a pore-forming subunit in any native system, and point to the likely location of the pore in mammalian canonical TRP channels. The specific elimination of Ca2+ permeation in TRP also provided a unique opportunity to address the roles of Ca2+ influx in vivo. We found that Asp621 mutations profoundly affected several key aspects of the light response and caused light-dependent retinal degeneration.
Axonal initial segments (IS) and nodes of Ranvier are functionally important membrane subdomains in which the clustering of electrogenic channels enables action potential initiation and propagation. In addition, the initial segment contributes to neuronal polarity by serving as a diffusion barrier. To study the mechanisms of axonal compartmentalization, we focused on two L1 family of cell adhesion molecules (L1-CAMs) [L1/neuron-glia cell adhesion molecule (L1/NgCAM) and neurofascin (NF)] and two neuronal ankyrins (ankB and ankG). NF and ankG accumulate specifically at the initial segment, whereas L1/NgCAM and ankB are expressed along the entire lengths of axons. We find that L1/NgCAM and NF show distinct modes of steady-state accumulation during axon outgrowth in cultured hippocampal neurons. Despite their different steady-state localizations, both L1/NgCAM and NF show slow diffusion and low detergent extractability specifically in the initial segment but fast diffusion and high detergent extractability in the distal axon. We propose that L1-CAMs do not strongly bind ankB in the distal axon because of spatial regulation of ankyrin affinity by phosphorylation. NF, conversely, is initially enriched in an ankyrin-independent manner in the axon generally and accumulates progressively in the initial segment attributable to preferential binding to ankG. Our results suggest that NF and L1/NgCAM accumulate in the axon by an ankyrin-independent pathway, but retention at the IS requires ankyrin binding.
Different mutations in the human Crumbs homolog-1 (CRB1) gene cause a variety of retinal dystrophies, such as Leber congenital amaurosis, early onset retinitis pigmentosa (e.g., RP12), RP with Coats-like exudative vasculopathy, and pigmented paravenous retinochoroidal atrophy. Loss of Crb1 leads to displaced photoreceptors and focal degeneration of all neural layers attributable to loss of adhesion between photoreceptors and Mller glia cells. To gain insight into genotype-phenotype relationship, we generated Crb1(C249W) mice that harbor an amino acid substitution (Cys249Trp) in the extracellular sixth calcium-binding epidermal growth factor domain of Crb1. Our analysis showed that Crb1(C249W) as wild-type protein trafficked to the subapical region adjacent to adherens junctions at the outer limiting membrane (OLM). Hence, these data suggest correct trafficking of the corresponding mutant CRB1 in RP12 patients. Crb1(C249W) mice showed loss of photoreceptors in the retina, relatively late compared with mice lacking Crb1. Scanning laser ophthalmoscopy revealed autofluorescent dots that presumably represent layer abnormalities after OLM disturbance. Gene expression analyses revealed lower levels of pituitary tumor transforming gene 1 (Pttg1) transcripts in Crb1(C249W/-) knock-in and Crb1(-/-) knock-out compared with control retinas. Exposure to white light decreased levels of Pttg1 in Crb1 mutant retinas. We hypothesize deregulation of Pttg1 expression attributable to a C249W substitution in the extracellular domain of Crb1.
Fleeting activation of NMDA receptors (NMDARs) induces long-term modification of synaptic connections and refinement of neuronal circuits, which may underlie learning and memory and contribute to pathogenesis of a diversity of neurological diseases, including epilepsy. Here, we found that NR2A and NR2B subunit-containing NMDARs were coupled to distinct intracellular signaling, resulting in differential BDNF expression and extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) activation. Selective activation of NR2A-containing NMDARs increased BDNF gene expression. Activation of NR2B-containing NMDARs led to ERK1/2 phosphorylation. Furthermore, selectively blocking NR2A-containing NMDARs impaired epileptogenesis and the development of mossy fiber sprouting in the kindling and pilocarpine rat models of limbic epilepsy, whereas inhibiting NR2B-containing NMDARs had no effects in epileptogenesis and mossy fiber sprouting. Interestingly, blocking either NR2A- or NR2B-containing NMDARs decreased status epilepticus-induced neuronal cell death. The specific requirement of NR2A and its downstream signaling for epileptogenesis implicates attractive new targets for the development of drugs that prevent epilepsy in patients with brain injury.
Past work has suggested that the medial superior temporal area (MST) is involved in the initiation of three kinds of eye movements at short latency by large-field visual stimuli. These eye movements consist of (1) version elicited by linear motion (the ocular following response), (2) vergence elicited by binocular parallax (the disparity vergence response), and (3) vergence elicited by global motion toward or away from the fovea (the radial-flow vergence response). We investigated this hypothesis by recording the effects of ibotenic acid injections in the superior temporal sulcus (STS) of both hemispheres in five monkeys. After the injections, all three kinds of eye movements were significantly impaired, with the magnitude of the impairments often showing a strong correlation with the extent of the morphological damage in the three subregions of the STS: dorsal MST on the anterior bank, lateral MST and middle temporal area on the posterior bank. However, the extent of the lesions in the three subregions often covaried, rendering it difficult to assess their relative contributions to the various deficits. The effects of the lesions on other aspects of oculomotor behavior that are known to be important for the normal functioning of the three tracking mechanisms (e.g., ocular stability, fixation disparity) were judged to be generally minor and to contribute little to the impairments. We conclude that, insofar as MST sustained significant damage in all injected hemispheres, our findings are consistent with the hypothesis that MST is a primary site for initiating all three visual tracking eye movements at ultra-short latencies.
We have developed a novel pulse-escape fluorescence photoactivation technique to investigate the long-term pausing behavior of axonal neurofilaments. Cultured sympathetic neurons expressing a photoactivatable green fluorescent neurofilament fusion protein were illuminated with violet light in a short segment of axon to create a pulse of fluorescent neurofilaments. Neurofilaments departed from the photoactivated regions at rapid velocities, but the overall loss of fluorescence was slow because many of the neurofilaments paused for long periods of time before moving. The frequency of neurofilament departure was more rapid initially and slower at later times, resulting in biphasic decay kinetics. By computational simulation of the kinetics, we show that the neurofilaments switched between two distinct states: a mobile state characterized by intermittent movements and short pauses (average = 30 s) and a stationary state characterized by remarkably long pauses (average = 60 min). On average, the neurofilaments spent 92% of their time in the stationary state. Combining short and long pauses, they paused for 97% of the time, resulting in an average transport rate of 0.5 mm/d. We speculate that the relative proportion of the time that neurofilaments spend in the stationary state may be a principal determinant of their transport rate and distribution along axons, and a potential target of mechanisms that lead to abnormal neurofilament accumulations in disease.
Tonically active cholinergic interneurons in the striatum modulate activities of striatal outputs from medium spiny (MS) neurons and significantly influence overall functions of the basal ganglia. Cellular mechanisms of this modulation are not fully understood. Here we show that ambient acetylcholine (ACh) derived from tonically active cholinergic interneurons constitutively upregulates depolarization-induced release of endocannabinoids from MS neurons. The released endocannabinoids cause transient suppression of inhibitory synaptic inputs to MS neurons through acting retrogradely onto presynaptic CB1 cannabinoid receptors. The effects were mediated by postsynaptic M(1) subtype of muscarinic ACh receptors, because the action of a muscarinic agonist to release endocannabinoids and the enhancement of depolarization-induced endocannabinoid release by ambient ACh were both deficient in M1 knock-out mice and were blocked by postsynaptic infusion of guanosine-5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate). Suppression of spontaneous firings of cholinergic interneurons by inhibiting Ih current reduced the depolarization-induced release of endocannabinoids. Conversely, elevation of ambient ACh concentration by inhibiting choline esterase significantly enhanced the endocannabinoid release. Paired recording from a cholinergic interneuron and an MS neuron revealed that the activity of single cholinergic neuron could influence endocannabinoid-mediated signaling in neighboring MS neurons. These results clearly indicate that striatal endocannabinoid-mediated modulation is under the control of cholinergic interneuron activity. By immunofluorescent and immunoelectron microscopic examinations, we demonstrated that M1 receptor was densely distributed in perikarya and dendrites of dopamine D1 or D2 receptor-positive MS neurons. Thus, we have disclosed a novel mechanism by which the muscarinic system regulates striatal output and may contribute to motor control.
Basic fibroblast growth factor (FGF-2) is involved in the development and maintenance of the nervous system. Exogenous administration of FGF-2 increased dopaminergic (DA) graft survival in different animal models of Parkinson's disease. To study the physiological function of the endogenous FGF-2 system, we analyzed the nigrostriatal system of mice lacking FGF-2, mice overexpressing FGF-2, and FGF-receptor-3 (FGFR3)-deficient mice both after development and after 6-hydroxydopamine lesion. FGFR3-deficient mice (+/-) displayed a reduced number of DA neurons compared with the respective wild type. Whereas absence of FGF-2 led to significantly increased numbers of DA neurons, enhanced amount of the growth factor in mice overexpressing FGF-2 resulted in less tyrosine hydroxylase expression and a reduced DA cell density. The volumes of the substantia nigra were enlarged in both FGF-2(-/-) and in FGF-2 transgenic mice, suggesting an important role of FGF-2 for the establishment of the proper number of DA neurons and a normal sized substantia nigra during development. In a second set of experiments, the putative relevance of endogenous FGF-2 after neurotoxin application was investigated regarding the number of rescued DA neurons after partial 6-OHDA lesion. Interestingly, the results after lesion were directly opposed to the results after development: significantly less DA neurons survived in FGF-2(-/-) mice compared with wild-type mice. Together, the results indicate that FGFR3 is crucially involved in regulating the number of DA neurons. The lack of FGF-2 seems to be (over)compensated during development, but, after lesion, compensation mechanisms fail. The transgenic mice showed that endogenous FGF-2 protects DA neurons from 6-OHDA neurotoxicity.
Neuronal activity influences protein synthesis and neuronal growth. Availability of nutrients, especially leucine and arginine, regulates the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway that controls cell growth. We show that NMDA receptor activation markedly reduces arginine transport by decreasing surface expression of the cationic amino acid transporters (CAT) 1 and 3. Depletion of CAT1 and CAT3 by RNA interference blocks influences of NMDA receptor activation on the mTOR pathway and neuronal process formation. Thus, the CATs mediate influences of NMDA receptor activation on the mTOR pathway that regulates neuronal processes.



Vomeronasal receptor neurons (VRNs) proliferate and differentiate continuously in the vomeronasal organ (VNO) throughout life. In adult mice, new VRNs are generated mainly in the marginal region, located in the boundary region between sensory and nonsensory epithelia. The Notch signaling pathway is involved in differentiation in the developing nervous system. To understand the Notch signaling pathway involved in generating VRNs, we focused on the relationship between the expression pattern of Notch1 and the localization of proliferating cells in both developing and regenerating mice VNO, and examined the Notch signaling pathway involved in the development of VNO by in situ hybridization of Notch1 and immunocytochemistry of 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine. During embryonic and neonatal development, proliferating cells and Notch1-expressing (+) cells were observed evenly throughout VNO. A large number of proliferating cells and Notch1 (+) cells were observed in embryonic VNO, but gradually decreased during development. The localization of proliferating cells was similar to that of Notch1 (+) cells at each developmental stage. In adult VNO, there are a few proliferating cells and Notch1 (+) cells, which were only in the marginal region of VNO. Seven days after removal of the accessory olfactory bulb (AOB), VRNs proliferated throughout VNO. Although the number of Notch1 (+) cells also increased in VNO, the majority of these were concentrated in the dorsal region of VNO, suggesting that it has two types of differentiating cell. These results suggest that Notch1 plays a role in the differentiation of VRNs during development and regeneration of VRNs after removal of AOB.
Ullrich congenital muscular dystrophy is a severe genetically and clinically heterogeneous muscle disorder linked to collagen VI deficiency. The pathogenesis of the disease is unknown. To assess the potential role of mitochondrial dysfunction in the onset of muscle fiber death in this form of dystrophy, we studied biopsies and myoblast cultures obtained from patients with different genetic defects of collagen VI and variable clinical presentations of the disease. We identified a latent mitochondrial dysfunction in myoblasts from patients with Ullrich congenital muscular dystrophy that matched an increased occurrence of spontaneous apoptosis. Unlike those in myoblasts from healthy donors, mitochondria in cells from patients depolarized upon addition of oligomycin and displayed ultrastructural alterations that were worsened by treatment with oligomycin. The increased apoptosis, the ultrastructural defects, and the anomalous response to oligomycin could be normalized by Ca(2+) chelators, by plating cells on collagen VI, and by treatment with cyclosporin A or with the specific cyclophilin inhibitor methylAla(3)ethylVal(4)-cyclosporin, which does not affect calcineurin activity. Here we demonstrate that mitochondrial dysfunction plays an important role in muscle cell wasting in Ullrich congenital muscular dystrophy. This study represents an essential step toward a pharmacological therapy of Ullrich congenital muscular dystrophy with cyclosporin A and methylAla(3)ethylVal(4) cyclosporin.
We explored the manifestations of an autosomal-recessive multisystemic disorder in several Saudi families. Recognized causes of progressive extra-pyramidal disorder and white matter disease were excluded and the neurological, imaging, endocrine, and skin manifestations of this syndrome described. The onset of these symptoms in these patients began in early adolescence and progressed more rapidly in males. All affected patients had total or partial alopecia, clinical and chemical evidence of hypogonadism (low levels of estradiol and testosterone); females had clear evidence of hypogonadism (streak or absent ovaries), and some patients had diabetes mellitus and/or sensorineural deafness. The constant biochemical abnormality was the low IGF-1. The neurological manifestations included moderate to severe intellectual decline and abnormality of muscle tone and posture with choreo-athetoid and dystonic movements resulting in gait difficulty, dysarthria, difficulty swallowing, and scoliosis. The MRI of brain demonstrated white matter involving cerebellum, brain stem, and cerebral structures, as well as abnormal decreased signal intensity in the basal ganglia with involvement of the substantia nigra. We conclude that the association of hypogonadism, alopecia, and persistent low IGF-1 is a significant autosomal recessive syndrome; it is prevalent in Saudi Arabia. We also demonstrate that the progressive extra-pyramidal disorder, white matter disease, and abnormal signals of the basal ganglia are common features of this syndrome. Sensorineural deafness and diabetes mellitus were recognized features.
Multiparallel amenable syntheses of 6-methoxy-8-amino-4-oxo-1,4-dihydroquinoline-2-carboxylic acid-(4-morpholin-4-yl-phenyl)amides (I) and 4-amino-6-methoxy-8-(4-methyl-piperazin-1-yl)-quinoline-2-carboxylic acid (4-morpholin-4-yl-phenyl)amides (II) which facilitate late-stage diversification at the 8-position of (I) and at the 4- and 8-positions of (II) are described. The resulting novel series were determined to contain potent 5HT(1B) antagonists. Preliminary SAR data are presented.
(R)-1-(10,11-Dihydro-dibenzo[b,f]azepin-5-yl)-3-methylamino-propan-2-ol ((R)-OHDMI) and (S,S)-1-cyclopentyl-2-(5-fluoro-2-methoxy-phenyl)-1-morpholin-2-yl-ethanol (CFMME) were synthesized and found to be potent inhibitors of norepinephrine reuptake. Each was labelled efficiently in its methyl group with carbon-11 (t(1/2)=20.4 min) as a prospective radioligand for imaging brain norepinephrine transporters (NET) with positron emission tomography (PET). The uptake and distribution of radioactivity in brain following intravenous injection of each radioligand into cynomolgus monkey was examined in vivo with PET. After injection of (R)-[(11)C]OHDMI, the maximal whole brain uptake of radioactivity was very low (1.1% of injected dose; I.D.). For occipital cortex, thalamus, lower brainstem, mesencephalon and cerebellum, radioactivity ratios to striatum at 93 min after radioligand injection were 1.35, 1.35, 1.2, 1.2 and 1.0, respectively. After injection of [(11)C]CFMME, radioactivity readily entered brain (3.5% I.D.). Ratios of radioactivity to cerebellum at 93 min for thalamus, occipital cortex, region of locus coeruleus, mesencephalon and striatum were 1.35, 1.3, 1.3, 1.2 and 1.2, respectively. Radioactive metabolites in plasma were measured by radio-HPLC. (R)-[(11)C]OHDMI represented 75% of plasma radioactivity at 4 min after injection and 6% at 30 min. After injection of [(11)C]CFMME, 84% of the radioactivity in plasma represented parent at 4 min and 20% at 30 min. Since the two new hydroxylated radioligands provide only modest regional differentiation in brain uptake and form potentially troublesome lipophilic radioactive metabolites, they are concluded to be inferior to existing radioligands, such as (S,S)-[(11)C]MeNER, (S,S)-[(18)F]FMeNER-D(2) and (S,S)-[(18)F]FRB-D(4), for the study of brain NETs with PET in vivo.
CD4+CD25+ regulatory T lymphocytes (Tregs) are specialized T cells playing a key role in the control of immune homeostasis. Here, we show that human Tregs constitutively express tyrosine hydroxylase (TH, EC 1.14.16.2), the rate-limiting enzyme in the synthesis of catecholamines, and contain substantial amounts of dopamine, norepinephrine, and epinephrine, which are released upon treatment with reserpine. Catecholamine release results in reduced production of interleukin-10 and transforming growth factor-beta by Tregs, and in down-regulation of Treg-dependent inhibition of effector T-lymphocyte (Teff) proliferation, which occurs without affecting the production of tumor necrosis factor-alpha or interferon-gamma. Tregs and Teffs express on the cell membrane both D1-like and D2-like dopaminergic receptors to a similar extent (12%-29% of the cells). Catecholamine-dependent down-regulation of Tregs is, however, selectively reversed by pharmacological blockade of dopaminergic D1-like receptors, which in Tregs only (and not in Teffs) are also expressed at the level of mRNA and are functionally coupled to intracellular production of cAMP. These findings indicate that in human Tregs endogenous catecholamines subserve an autocrine/paracrine loop involving dopaminergic pathways and resulting in down-regulation of Treg function.
Methylation of the O6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT) gene promoter (i.e., gene silencing) occurs in 40% to 50% of patients with glioblastoma and predicts benefit from temozolomide chemotherapy; when unmethylated, MGMT repairs DNA damage induced by temozolomide, contributing to chemoresistance. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that MGMT is regulated by p53 in astrocytic cells, the precursors of which may give rise to glioblastoma. p53 is of interest because, in addition to often being mutated in glioblastoma, inactivation sensitizes some astrocytoma cell lines to temozolomide. MGMT expression was examined in neonatal murine astrocytes and SF767 human astrocytic glioma cells following p53 inactivation by knockout (murine only) or RNAi methods. MGMT mRNA and protein were detected in murine wild-type p53 astrocytes. However, in knockout murine astrocytes and wild-type cells in which p53 was inhibited by RNAi, MGMT expression was reduced by &gt;90%. This effect of p53 on MGMT expression was unrelated to MGMT promoter methylation-in both wild-type and p53-null astrocytes, the MGMT promoter was unmethylated. In wild-type astrocytes, the p53 protein localized to a regulatory region of the MGMT promoter. In SF767 human astrocytic glioma cells, transient knockdown of p53 led to the down-regulation of MGMT gene expression. In murine astrocytes and SF767 cells, p53 regulates MGMT expression without affecting promoter methylation; in astrocytes, this effect may be due to direct binding of p53 to the MGMT promoter. These results imply that the best use of temozolomide requires a thorough understanding of MGMT regulation.
The Hedgehog (Hh) pathway regulates proliferation in a variety of tissues, however its specific effects on the cell cycle are unclear. During retinal proliferation in particular, the role of Hh has been controversial, with studies variably suggesting a stimulatory or an inhibitory effect on proliferation. Our recent data provide an underlying mechanism, which reconciles these different views. We showed that Hh signaling in the retina accelerates the G(1) and G(2) phases of the cell cycle and then pushes these rapidly dividing cells out of the cell cycle prematurely. From this and other evidence, we propose that Hh converts quiescent retinal stem cells into fast-cycling transient amplifying progenitors that are closer to cell cycle exit and differentiation. This is, we suggest, likely to be a general role of Hh in the nervous system and other tissues. This function of Hh in cell cycle kinetics and cell cycle exit may have implications for tumorigenesis and brain evolution.

Calcium signaling is important for multiple events during embryonic development. However, roles of calcium influx during embryogenesis have not been fully understood since routes of calcium influx are often redundant. To define roles of voltage-gated calcium channel (Cav) during embryogenesis, we have isolated an ascidian Cav beta subunit gene (TuCavbeta) and performed gene knockdown using the morpholino antisense oligonucleotide (MO). The suppression of Cav activity by TuCavbetaMO remarkably perturbed gastrulation and tail elongation. Further, larvae with normal morphology also failed to exhibit motility. Phalloidin-staining showed that arrangement of myofibrils was uncoordinated in muscle cells of TuCavbetaMO-injected larvae with normal tail. To further understand the roles of Cav activity in myofibrillogenesis, we tested pharmacological inhibitions with ryanodine, curare, and N-benzyl-p-toluensulphonamide (BTS). The treatment with ryanodine, an intracellular calcium release blocker, did not significantly affect the motility and establishment of the myofibril orientation. However, treatment with curare, an acetylcholine receptor blocker, and BTS, an actomyosin ATPase specific inhibitor, led to abnormal motility and irregular orientation of myofibrils that was similar to those of TuCavbetaMO-injected larvae. Our results suggest that contractile activation regulated by voltage-dependent calcium influx but not by intracellular calcium release is required for proper arrangement of myofibrils.
The Krupple-associated box-containing zinc-finger proteins (KRAB-ZFPs) make up one of the largest family of transcription factors. Several members of the KRAB-ZFPs modulate cell growth, survival and are implicated in malignant disorders. However, most members are not well characterized and their functions are largely unknown. Here we report that ZNF23, a member of KRAB-ZFPs, inhibits cell cycle progression. ZNF23 protein localized to the nucleus and was ubiquitously expressed in all tested normal tissues. However, the expression levels of ZNF23 protein were lost or greatly reduced in human cancer. Ectopic expression of ZNF23 led to enhancement of p27(kip-1) expression, growth inhibition and cell cycle arrest in G(1) phase. Downregulation of p27(kip-1) by siRNA against p27(kip-1) reversed growth inhibition induced by ZNF23. Furthermore, the growth-inhibitory effect of ZNF23 was p53-independent. Deletion analysis revealed that the effect of ZNF23 did not rely on its KRAB domain, but on the C-terminal zinc fingers. Thus, we have identified a new member of KRAB-ZNF superfamily with growth-inhibitory ability and its downregulation may contribute to carcinogenesis.
CO(2) changes the biochemistry of peroxynitrite basically in two ways: (i) nitrating species is the CO(3)(-) / ()NO(2) radical pair, and (ii) peroxynitrite diffusion distance is significantly reduced. For peroxynitrite generated extracellularly this last effect is particularly dramatic at low cell density because CO(3)(-) and ()NO(2) are short-lived and decay mostly in the extracellular space or at the cell surface/membrane. This study was aimed to distinguish between peroxynitrite-induced extra- and intracellular modifications of red blood cells (RBC). Our results show that at low cell density and in the presence of CO(2) peroxynitrite induced the oxidation of surface thiols, the formation of 3-nitrotyrosine and DMPO-RBC adducts, and the down-regulation of glycophorins A and C (biomarkers of senescence). Reactivation of glycolysis reversed only the oxidation of surface thiols. Without CO(2) peroxynitrite also induced the oxidation of hemoglobin and glutathione, the accumulation of lactate, a decrease in ATP, the clustering of band 3, the externalization of phosphatidylserine, and the activation of caspases 8 and 3 (biomarkers of apoptosis). The latter biomarkers were all reversed by reactivation of glycolysis. We hypothesize that cell senescence could (generally) be derived by irreversible radical-mediated oxidation of membrane targets, while the appearance of apoptotic biomarkers could be bolstered by oxidation of intracellular targets. These results suggest that, depending on extracellular homolysis or diffusion to the intracellular space, peroxynitrite prompts RBCs toward either senescence or apoptosis through different oxidation mechanisms.
Two coelacanth species, Latimeria chalumnae and Latimeria menadoensis, the recently discovered second species, have a key evolutionary position at the divergence of bony fishes and tetrapods. Together with lungfishes, they are the only living species separating the species-rich tetrapods from the other major group of vertebrates, the ray-finned fishes. The coelacanth is therefore of great importance for comparisons of gene families that differ between these two groups, such as the neuropeptide Y (NPY) receptor family. In this work we have sequenced the full-length genes for two NPY receptors in Latimeria chalumnae. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that the two sequences are orthologs of the mammalian Y5 and Y6 receptors. The Y5 gene has been implicated in appetite stimulation in mammals but is absent from teleost fishes. The presence of the Y5 receptor in Latimeria together with phylogenetic analysis shows that Y5 existed before the separation of bony fishes and tetrapods. The Latimeria receptor has about 62% identity to tetrapod Y5 sequences and contains the extended third intracellular loop with several highly conserved motifs that may be involved in signal transduction. The Latimeria Y6 receptor has about 60% identity to tetrapod Y6 sequences. The functional role of Y6 is unclear as the gene is seemingly functional in some mammals but is non-functional in others. The Y6 receptor is also missing in teleost fishes. Our results confirm an early vertebrate origin for all NPY receptor subtypes presently found in mammals followed by differential gene loss in the different classes of vertebrates.
Distal myopathy with rimmed vacuoles (DMRV) or hereditary inclusion myopathy (h-IBM) is an early adult-onset distal myopathy caused by mutations in the UDP-N-acetylglucosamine 2-epimerase/N-acetylmannosamine kinase (GNE) gene which encodes for a bifunctional enzyme involved in sialic acid biosynthesis. It is pathologically characterized by the presence of rimmed vacuoles especially in atrophic fibers, which also occasionally contain congophilic materials that are immunoreactive to beta-amyloid, lysosomal proteins, ubiquitin and tau proteins. To elucidate the pathomechanism of this myopathy and to explore the treatment options, we generated a mouse model of DMRV/h-IBM. We knocked out the Gne gene in the mouse, but this resulted in embryonic lethality. We therefore generated a transgenic mouse that expressed the human GNEV572L mutation, which is the most prevalent among Japanese DMRV patients, and crossed this with Gne((+/-)) mouse to obtain Gne((-/-))hGNEV572L-Tg. Interestingly, these mice exhibit marked hyposialylation in serum, muscle and other organs. Reduction in motor performance in these mice can only be seen from 30 weeks of age. A compelling finding is the development of beta-amyloid deposition in myofibers by 32 weeks, which clearly precedes rimmed vacuole formation at 42 weeks. These results show that the Gne((-/-)) hGNEV572L-Tg mouse mimics the clinical, histopathological and biochemical features of DMRV/h-IBM, making it useful for understanding the pathomechanism of this myopathy and for employing different strategies for therapy. Our findings underscore the notion that hyposialylation plays an important role in the pathomechanism of DMRV/h-IBM.
A number of psychiatric and neurodegenerative disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease, are characterized by abnormalities in the neuronal cytoskeleton. Here, we find that the enhancement in actin polymerization induced by fibrillar amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta) is associated with increased activity of Rac1/Cdc42 Rho GTPases. Rac1 upregulation involves the participation of Tiam1, a Rac guanine-nucleotide exchange factor, where Abeta exposure leads to Tiam1 activation by a Ca(2+)-dependent mechanism. These results point to Rho GTPases as one of the targets in Abeta-induced neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease pathology, with a role in mediating changes in the actin cytoskeletal dynamics.
Progressive myoclonic epilepsy (PME) is a syndrome complex encompassing different diagnostic entities and often cause problems in diagnosis. We describe the clinical, electrophysiological and pathological features of 97 patients with the diagnosis of PME evaluated over 25 years. Case records of confirmed patients of Neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (NCL = 40), Lafora body disease (LBD = 38), Myoclonic epilepsy with ragged red fibers (MERRF = 10), and probable Unverricht-Lundberg disease (ULD = 9) were reviewed. The mean age at onset in patients with NCL (n = 40) was 5.9+/-9.1 years (M:F:: 28:12). Subtypes of NCL were: late infantile (n = 19), infantile (n = 8), juvenile (n = 11) and adult (n = 2) NCL. EEG (n = 37) showed varying degree of diffuse slowing of background activity in 94.6% and epileptiform discharges in 81.1% of patients. Slow frequency photic stimulation evoked photo-convulsive response in 5 patients only. Giant SSEP was demonstrated in 7 and VEP study revealed a prolonged P100 (2) and absent waveform (7). Electrophysiological features of neuropathy were present in 3 patients. Presence of PAS and Luxol Fast Blue (LFB) positive, auto fluorescent (AF) ceroid material in brain tissue (n = 12) and electron microscopy of brain (n = 5), skin (n = 28) and muscle (n = 1) samples showing curvilinear and lamellar bodies established the diagnosis. Patients of LBD (mean age of onset at 14.4+/-3.9 years, M:F:: 24:14) with triad of PME symptoms were evaluated. EEG (n = 37) showed variable slowing of background activity in 94.6% and epileptiform discharges in 97.4%. Photosensitivity with fast frequency was observed only in 5 patients. CT (n = 32) and MRI (n = 4) revealed diffuse cortical atrophy. Giant SSEP was demonstrated in 24 patients of LBD while VEP study revealed a prolonged P100 (4) and absent waveform (8). Electrophysiological features of neuropathy were present in one patient. Diagnosis was established by the presence of PAS positive diastase resistant, Lugol's Iodine labeled inclusions in sweat glands of axillary skin (n = 35), brain (n = 2) and liver (n = 1). Ten patients with MERRF (mean age at onset: 14.6+/-5.8 years; M: F:: 3:2) had triad of PME symptoms. Muscle biopsy revealed oxidative reaction product and classical ragged red fibers. In nine patients of PME without cognitive decline, probable diagnosis of ULD (mean age at onset: 13.8+/-9.5 years) was considered after biopsy of skin and/or muscle excluded other forms of PMEs. Neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis and Lafora body diseases were the common causes of PME in the series from south India. This is one of the largest series from the Indian subcontinent to the best of our knowledge. Photosensitivity is notably less common in LBD/NCL in this series distinctly different from those reported in the literature. Further exploration is required to determine whether different genotype is responsible. Morphological changes were helpful in diagnosis and could be confirmed by biopsy of peripheral tissues like skin and muscle in majority (60%). Electron microscopy was helpful in the diagnosis NCL and MERRF.
There exists much phenotypic heterogeneity in Duchenne muscular dystrophy and its allelic variant, Becker muscular dystrophy. The molecular findings on 53 patients with Duchenne and 15 patients with Becker type muscular dystrophy in KwaZulu Natal, South Africa are reported. Multiplex PCR was performed using primers targeting 18 hot-spot exons throughout the dystrophin gene. Analysis of the multiplex PCR data revealed that 39/68 (57.0%) patients included in the study showed a deletion (33 DMD and 6 BMD patients). Twenty-five patients were Black, 4 were White and 10 were Indian. Using the Chamberlain and Beggs multiplex PCR assays, the region of the genome most frequently affected by a deletion includes exons 47-51. The distal region of the dystrophin gene was most frequently affected by the deletion in both Black and Indian patients. There were too few White patients for conclusions to be drawn concerning the most frequently affected part of the gene. Although the numbers are insufficient to determine whether ethnic differences are present, the Chamberlain and Beggs multiplex PCR assays detect deletions with the same frequency in South African DMD/BMD patients as that reported in the literature.
The use of activity-dependent interventions has shown some success in promoting recovery of upper limb function in chronic stroke patients. This study compared the neurophysiological and behavioural changes associated with two such rehabilitation protocols: unilateral and bilateral movement training. Twelve chronic stroke patients were randomly assigned to the two training protocols involving six daily practice sessions. Each session consisted of 50 trials of a dowel placement task performed either with both impaired and unimpaired arm moving synchronously (bilateral training group) or with only the impaired arm moving (unilateral training). Kinematic measurements of upper limb movements were made in four unilateral test trials performed prior to and following each practice session. Functional assessments of the impaired upper limb and neurophysiological assessments, using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), of the affected and non-affected cortical hemispheres were made prior to and following the intervention sessions. Individuals receiving bilateral training showed a reduction in movement time of the impaired limb and increased upper limb functional ability compared to individuals receiving unilateral training. In some patients changes to upper limb function were associated with changes to the cortical representation of a target muscle in the non-affected hemisphere. Overall, these findings suggest that a short-term bilateral training intervention may be effective in facilitating upper limb motor function in chronic stroke patients.
Research into the neuromechanical basis of behavior, either in biomechanics, neuroethology, or neuroscience, is frequently limited by methods of data collection. Two of the most pressing needs are for methods with which to (1) record from multiple neurons or muscles simultaneously and (2) perform this recording in intact, behaving animals. In this paper we present the fabrication and testing of flexible multielectrode arrays (fMEAs) that move us significantly towards these goals. The fMEAs were used to record the activity of several distinct units in the coxa of the cockroach Blaberus discoidalis. The devices fabricated here address the first goal in two ways: (1) their flexibility allows them to be inserted into an animal and guided through internal tissues in order to access distinct groups of neurons and muscles and (2) their recording site geometry has been tuned to suit the anatomy under study, yielding multichannel spike waveforms that are easily separable under conditions of spike overlap. The flexible nature of the devices simultaneously addresses the second goal, in that it is less likely to interfere with the natural movement of the animal.
Mammalian spinal cord motoneurons are highly susceptible to chemical and mechanical disturbances, which imposes substantial difficulties for electrophysiological investigation in acute in vitro preparations. The aim of the present study was to establish an isolated spinal cord preparation from adult mice and to examine the synaptic activities of motoneurons in vitro. We removed the lumbo-sacral cord from the vertebral canal by hydraulic extrusion and maintained the isolated cord in vitro for extracellular recordings. Population spikes of motoneurons were evoked by electrical stimulation of dorsal roots (orthodromic) or ventral roots (antidromic) and these evoked responses could be continuously monitored for 5-6 h. The orthodromic population spikes were reversibly suppressed by the AMPA/kainate receptor antagonist 2,3-dihyro-6-nitro-7-sulfamoylbenzo quinoxaline (NBQX, 10 microM) but they persisted in the presence of the NMDA receptor antagonist D(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (AP5, 50 microM). The antidromic population spikes exhibited evident paired pulse inhibition when evoked at inter-stimulus intervals of pound 6 ms. Histological examination revealed that basic morphological features of the lumbo-sacral motoneurons were preserved after 3-4 h of in vitro maintenance. This in vitro preparation is ideally suited for the electrophysiological study of synaptic transmission on adult mouse spinal motoneurons.
A novel organotypic culture method of mouse retina explants is being introduced and characterized to evaluate its usefulness in studying glutamate excitotoxicity. Retinal whole-mounts were dissected from eyes of C57BL/6 mice aged P10-14 and transferred to poly-D-lysine/laminin coated round coverslips. After 7 days in vitro, retina explants were treated with varying concentrations of L-glutamate and cell death was accessed with TUNEL histochemistry. Neurofilament-68 kDa immunoreactivity was used to identify retinal ganglion cells (RGC) with immunohistochemistry. Additional cell markers were used to further characterize the cytoarchitecture of the organotypic retina cultures. Retina explants attached very well to the coated coverslips allowing for experimental manipulation and pharmacological access to the tissue. Hematoxylin-Eosin (HE) staining of vertical cryostat sections of retina explants demonstrated well preserved intact cytoarchitecture under organotypic culture conditions and PKCalpha, Calbindin, GABA, Rhodopsin, GFAP and neurofilament immunoreactivities identifying rod bipolar, horizontal, amacrine, photoreceptor, glial, and retinal ganglion cells, respectively, were not different from freshly isolated mouse retina. Dose dependent glutamate toxicity and accompanying RGC apoptotic cell death were determined by TUNEL histochemistry. In contrast to previously published methods using slice or floating whole-mount cultures, the ex vivo culture system presented here combines accessibility to experimental manipulation, and adherence of whole-mount cultures to a substrate with a significant preservation of retinal cell types, numbers and morphology. The described retina explant culture on glass coverslips allows for effective pharmacological manipulation including the study of neuronal cell death and RGC physiology.
A single TMS pulse (110% resting motor threshold, RMT) to the left dorsal premotor cortex (PMd) (CS2) suppresses the amplitude of motor evoked potentials (MEPs) from a test pulse (TS) over the right motor cortex (M1), and facilitates MEPs from the left motor cortex. We probed how this interaction was changed by a prior conditioning pulse over PMd (CS1) using a paired pulse TMS design. In the main experiments, the intensity of CS1 was 80% RMT. Basal suppression of right M1 was removed when CS1-CS2 was 1 ms or 5 ms with a similar tendency at 15 ms. Basal facilitation of left M1 was suppressed at CS1-CS2 of 5 ms. A similar time course was seen if CS2 was increased to 100% RMT, but there was no significant effect if CS1 was 70% RMT. Preconditioning PMd with continuous or intermittent theta burst repetitive TMS (cTBS, iTBS) abolished the basal CS2-TS interaction between premotor and motor cortices. Finally, if very short interstimulus intervals between CS1 and CS2 were explored to detect interactions similar to I-wave facilitation in M1, we found that the basal suppression of right M1 was abolished at CS1-CS2 intervals of 1.8 and 2.8 ms. We suggest that paired pulse TMS may be capable of investigating properties of intrinsic circuits in PMd and that their properties differ from those in the nearby M1. Paired TMS may be a useful method of studying the excitability of intrinsic circuits in non-primary areas of the motor system.
Ca2+ is vital for release of neurotransmitters and trophic factors from peripheral sensory nerve terminals (PSNTs), yet Ca2+ regulation in PSNTs remains unexplored. To elucidate the Ca2+ regulatory mechanisms in PSNTs, we determined the effects of a panel of pharmacological agents on electrically evoked Ca2+ transients in rat corneal nerve terminals (CNTs) in vitro that had been loaded with the fluorescent Ca2+ indicator, Oregon Green 488 BAPTA-1 dextran or fura-2 dextran in vivo. Inhibition of the sarco(endo)plasmic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase, disruption of mitochondrial Ca2+ uptake, or inhibition of the Na+-Ca2+ exchanger did not measurably alter the amplitude or decay kinetics of the electrically evoked Ca2+ transients in CNTs. By contrast, inhibition of the plasma membrane Ca2+-ATPase (PMCA) by increasing the pH slowed the decay of the Ca2+ transient by 2-fold. Surprisingly, the energy for ion transport across the plasma membrane of CNTs is predominantly from glycolysis rather than mitochondrial respiration, as evidenced by the observation that Ca2+ transients were suppressed by iodoacetate but unaffected by mitochondrial inhibitors. These observations indicate that, following electrical activity, the PMCA is the predominant mechanism of Ca2+ clearance from the cytosol of CNTs and glycolysis is the predominant source of energy.
While idiopathic generalized epilepsies are thought to evolve from temporal highly synchronized oscillations between thalamic and cortical networks, their cellular basis remains poorly understood. Here we show in a genetic rat model of absence epilepsy (WAG/Rij) that a rapid decline in expression of hyperpolarization-activated cyclic-nucleotide gated (HCN1) channels (I(h)) precedes the onset of seizures, suggesting that the loss of HCN1 channel expression is inherited rather than acquired. Loss of HCN1 occurs primarily in the apical dendrites of layer 5 pyramidal neurons in the cortex, leading to a spatially uniform 2-fold reduction in dendritic HCN current throughout the entire somato-dendritic axis. Dual whole-cell recordings from the soma and apical dendrites demonstrate that loss of HCN1 increases somato-dendritic coupling and significantly reduces the frequency threshold for generation of dendritic Ca2+ spikes by backpropagating action potentials. As a result of increased dendritic Ca2+ electrogenesis a large population of WAG/Rij layer 5 neurons showed intrinsic high-frequency burst firing. Using morphologically realistic models of layer 5 pyramidal neurons from control Wistar and WAG/Rij animals we show that the experimentally observed loss of dendritic I(h) recruits dendritic Ca2+ channels to amplify action potential-triggered dendritic Ca2+ spikes and increase burst firing. Thus, loss of function of dendritic HCN1 channels in layer 5 pyramidal neurons provides a somato-dendritic mechanism for increasing the synchronization of cortical output, and is therefore likely to play an important role in the generation of absence seizures.
The hypothalamic melanocortin system is crucial for the control of appetite and body weight. Two of the five melanocortin receptors, MC3R and MC4R are involved in hypothalamic control of energy homeostasis, with the MC4R having the major influence. It is generally thought that the main impact of the melanocortin system on hypothalamic circuits is external to the arcuate nucleus, and that any effect locally in the arcuate nucleus is inhibitory on proopiomelanocortin-expressing (POMC) neurons. In contrast, using current- and voltage-clamp recordings from identified neurons, we demonstrate that MC3R and MC4R agonists depolarize arcuate POMC neurons and a separate arcuate neuronal population identified by the rat insulin 2 promoter (RIPCre) transgene expression. Furthermore, the endogenous MC3R and MC4R antagonist, agouti-related protein (AgRP), hyperpolarizes POMC and RIPCre neurons in the absence of melanocortin agonist, consistent with inverse agonism at the MC4R. A decreased transient outward (I(A)) potassium conductance, and to a lesser extent the inward rectifier (K(IR)) conductance, underlies neuronal depolarization, whereas an increase in I(A) mediates AgRP-induced hyperpolarization. Accordingly, POMC and RIPCre neurons may be targets for peptide transmitters that are possibly released locally from AgRP-expressing and POMC neurons in the arcuate nucleus, adding further previously unappreciated complexity to the arcuate system.
Sensory and motor noise limits the precision with which we can sense the world and act upon it. Recent research has begun to reveal computational principles by which the central nervous system reduces the sensory uncertainty and movement variability arising from this internal noise. Here we review the role of optimal estimation and sensory filtering in extracting the sensory information required for motor planning, and the role of optimal control, motor adaptation and impedance control in the specification of the motor output signal.
Recently, a growth promoter for farm animals, trenbolone acetate, was identified as an environmental androgen that potentially affects reproduction. Because androgens also suppress immunity, it was hypothesized that an active metabolite of trenbolone acetate, 17beta-trenbolone (TB), might impair immune responses. Castrated adult CD-1 mice were injected daily with either one of two different doses of 17beta-trenbolone (TB), testosterone propionate (TP), or corn oil (vehicle). The antigen-specific immune response was assessed by measuring delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) responses. Reproductive response was assessed by measuring reproductive tissue mass and determining testosterone concentrations. Mice treated with TB or TP displayed larger reproductive tissue mass than males treated with corn oil. Furthermore, males exposed to the highest dose of TB displayed a reduced DTH response compared to vehicle-treated animals. In comparison, TP, at a similar dose, only minimally reduced the DTH response. These data support the reproductive and potentially immunosuppressive effects of this environmental androgen, and raise the possibility of health concerns for individuals or populations in contact with high concentrations of TB.
Leucine-Rich Repeat Kinase 2 (LRRK2) gene mutations are the most common known cause of Parkinson's disease (PD), but neuropathological studies are available on very few patients with LRRK2 mutation. The reported findings range from Lewy body-positive pathology to different pathologies, including nigral degeneration without distinctive features, neuronal loss with only ubiquitin-positive inclusions, and tau-positive-only pathology. Here we report the first neuropathological study in an Italian PD case carrying a different LRRK2 mutation, Ile1371Val, and showing typical ubiquitin- and alpha-synuclein-positive Lewy body pathology. These findings support the concept that the neurodegeneration associated with LRRK2 mutations might be clinically and pathologically indistinguishable from typical PD.
Dopaminergic imaging has been found to be normal in approximately 15% of parkinsonian patients enrolled in neuroprotective trials. We used (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG PET) to determine the metabolic basis for this finding. We reviewed scans from 185 patients with clinical signs of Parkinson's disease (PD) who underwent (18)F-fluorodopa PET imaging for diagnostic confirmation. Of this group, 27 patients (14.6%) had quantitatively normal scans; 8 of these patients were additionally scanned with FDG PET. Pattern analysis was performed on an individual scan basis to determine whether the metabolic changes were consistent with classic PD. Computer-assisted single-case assessments of the FDG PET scans of these 8 patients did not disclose patterns of regional metabolic change compatible with classical PD or an atypical parkinsonian variant. Similarly, network quantification revealed that PD-related pattern expression was not elevated in these patients as it was in an age- and duration-matched cohort with classical PD (P &lt; 0.0001). None of these patients developed clinical signs of classical PD or of an atypical parkinsonian syndrome at a follow-up visit conducted 3 years after imaging. The results suggest that parkinsonian subjects with normal dopaminergic imaging do not have evidence of classical PD or an atypical parkinsonian syndrome.
Modeling and understanding the variability of brain structures is a fundamental problem in neurosciences. Improved mathematical representations of structural brain variation are needed to help detect and understand genetic or disease related sources of abnormality, as well as to improve statistical power when integrating functional brain mapping data across subjects. In this paper, we develop a new mathematical model of normal brain variation based on a large set of cortical sulcal landmarks (72 per brain) delineated in each of 98 healthy human subjects scanned with 3D MRI (age: 51.8+/-6.2 years). We propose an original method to compute an average representation of the sulcal curves, which constitutes the mean anatomy. After affine alignment of the individual data across subjects, the second order moment distribution of the sulcal position is modeled as a sparse field of covariance tensors (symmetric, positive definite matrices). To extrapolate this information to the full brain, one has to overcome the limitations of the standard Euclidean matrix calculus. We propose an affine-invariant Riemannian framework to perform computations with tensors. In particular, we generalize radial basis function (RBF) interpolation and harmonic diffusion partial differential equations (PDEs) to tensor fields. As a result, we obtain a dense 3D variability map that agrees well with prior results on smaller subject samples. Moreover, &quot;leave one (sulcus) out&quot; tests show that our model is globally able to recover the missing information on brain variation when there is a consistent neighboring pattern of variability. Finally, we propose an innovative method to analyze the asymmetry of brain variability. As expected, the greatest asymmetries are found in regions that includes the primary language areas. Interestingly, any such asymmetries in anatomical variance, if it remains after anatomical normalization, could explain why there may be greater power to detect group activation in one hemisphere versus the other in fMRI studies.
The motor manifestations of Parkinson's disease (PD) have been linked to an abnormal spatial covariance pattern involving basal ganglia thalamocortical pathways. By contrast, little is known about the functional networks that underlie cognitive dysfunction in this disorder. To identify such patterns, we studied 15 non-demented PD patients using FDG PET and a voxel-based network modeling approach. We detected a significant covariance pattern that correlated (p&lt;0.01) with performance on tests of memory and executive functioning. This PD-related cognitive pattern (PDCP) was characterized by metabolic reductions in frontal and parietal association areas and relative increases in the cerebellar vermis and dentate nuclei. To validate this pattern, we analyzed data from 32 subsequent PD patients of similar age, disease duration and severity. Prospective measurements of PDCP activity predicted memory performance (p&lt;0.005), visuospatial function (p&lt;0.01), and perceptual motor speed (p&lt;0.005) in this validation sample. PDCP scores additionally exhibited an excellent degree of test-retest reliability (intraclass correlation coefficient, ICC=0.89) in patients undergoing repeat FDG PET at an 8-week interval. Unlike the PD-related motor pattern, PDCP expression was not significantly altered by antiparkinsonian treatment with either intravenous levodopa or deep brain stimulation (DBS). These findings substantiate the PDCP as a reproducible imaging marker of cognitive function in PD. Because PDCP expression is not altered by routine antiparkinsonian treatment, this measure of network activity may prove useful in clinical trials targeting the progression of non-motor manifestations of this disorder.
The definition of regions of interest for PET data analysis poses a number of complex problems. While studies have shown that regions drawn on a template can be appropriate for extracting data for normal healthy subjects, it is unclear how these results can be applied to different populations. In this study, we focused on the aging population and examined how different parameters in the template data-extraction process may affect the accuracy of the results. We first present an automated method for extracting PET counts using a region-of-interest approach within a template framework. Then, we discuss two studies in which we measure the effects of varying specific parameters in this process. In study 1 we examined three parameters that may influence this process: choice of template, region, and threshold. In study 2 we focused on the hippocampus. We considered 6 different templates, and examined how well the subject-specific hippocampal masks overlapped with each other and with the template hippocampal masks after normalization. While the data in the older cohort are more variable than the normal population, the results suggest that using an appropriate template and selecting the correct parameters for the template-based ROI method can provide template-extracted counts that are highly correlated to counts extracted using subject-specific ROIs.
We examined the relationship between a history of obstetric complications (OCs) and the number of neurological soft signs (NSS) in a group of 132 patients experiencing their first episode of psychosis. We measured NSS by means of a comprehensive standardized assessment and gained information on a selection of nine OCs from the patient's mother. Contrary to our expectations we found significantly more NSS in the group of patients without a history of OCs. This effect was independent of medication in the group of patients with a schizophrenic disorder, but not in the entire group. It is possible that the patients with a history of OCs carry fewer genes for schizophrenia (and NSS) and 'needed' the OCs to develop schizophrenia.
The &quot;atypical&quot; subgroup of women with anorexia nervosa not characterized by drive for thinness (DT) was studied. The study group comprised 151 anorectic patients (restrictor anorectics [AN-R], n=74; binge-purging anorectics [AN-BP], n=77). Subjects completed the following self-administered questionnaires: Eating Disorder Inventory-2 (EDI-2), Temperament and Character Inventory (TCI), State-Trait Anger Expression Inventory (STAXI), and Beck Depression Inventory (BDI). Patients were subdivided into three groups on the basis of body mass index (BMI) and DT score: AN-I with a BMI&lt;15 and DT&lt;7 (n=24); AN-II with a BMI&gt;15 and DT&lt;7 (n=34); and AN-III with a BMI&lt;17.5 and DT&gt;7 (n=93). Patients belonging to the AN-III group had a more severe disorder and form of psychopathology based on their scores on several scales. No association emerged between personality disorders and any single subgroup. Three hypotheses emerge: (1) some patients (about 38%) deny DT and provide negative answers on the questionnaires; (2) patients without DT (even when malnourished) seem to show less severe psychopathologic and personality traits; and (3) patients without DT answer questions honestly, but they have developed a character structure that enables them to feel negative and ego-dystonic emotions regarding their condition. Implications for treatment are discussed.
Central dopaminergic activity is critical to the functioning of both motor and cognitive systems. Based on the therapeutic action of dopaminergic agents in treating attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), ADHD symptoms may be related to a reduction in central dopaminergic activity. We tested the hypothesis that dopaminergic activity, as reflected by plasma homovanillic acid (pHVA), may be related to dimensional aspects of ADHD in adults. Subjects were 30 healthy volunteer and 39 personality disordered subjects, in whom morning basal pHVA concentration and a dimensional measure of childhood ADHD symptoms (Wender Utah Rating Scale: WURS) were obtained. A significant inverse correlation was found between WURS Total score and pHVA concentration in the total sample. Among WURS factor scores, a significant inverse relationship was noted between pHVA and history of &quot;childhood learning problems&quot;. Consistent with the dopaminergic dysfunction hypothesis of ADHD and of cognitive function, pHVA concentrations were correlated with childhood history of ADHD symptoms in general and with history of &quot;learning problems&quot; in non-ADHD psychiatric patients and controls. Replication is needed in treated and untreated ADHD samples to confirm these initial results.
Backward masking is a measure of early visual information processing usually abnormal in psychotic disorders. Previous studies of subjects with Borderline Personality Disorder have been inconsistent regarding their impairment or lack of impairment on backward masking. We examined visual backward masking performance in samples of unmedicated depressed patients with (n=12) and without (n=16) Borderline Personality Disorder, and healthy volunteers (n=18). Accuracy was poorer in depressed BPD patients, relative to both non-BPD depressed and healthy comparison subjects. As in previous studies, no differences in accuracy were found between non-BPD depressed patients and healthy comparison subjects. Differences in BPD subjects' accuracy were most evident at the fastest ISI and were not attributable to intercurrent psychotic symptoms. Beyond these group differences, accuracy at faster ISI's correlated with self-ratings of impulsiveness in all patients, and may be a general correlate of this trait. Poor early information processing appears to be a feature of Borderline Personality Disorder, and may play a role in the impulsive behavior that is characteristic of the disorder.
Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), relatively common anxiety disorder (2-3% of the general population), is characterized by persistent, intrusive and unpleasant thoughts, impulses or images and recurrent, time-consuming behaviours that are performed in a ritualistic fashion according to rigid rules and aimed at reducing anxiety and distress caused by obsessions. Significant progress in neuroscience over the last two decades has contributed to improve our knowledge about structure-function relations. Experimental neurophysiology in laboratory animals in parallel with advances in functional neuroimagery in humans, have provided precious information on the pathophysiological bases of OCD. From phenomenological considerations, several processes have been thought as disrupted in OCD, including monitoring of error detection, and emotional and motivational functions. Therefore, it has been postulated that the frontal-subcortical circuits originating in the orbito-frontal and the anterior cingulate cortices respectively, play a major role in the production of obsessive-compulsive symptoms because of their participation in the mediation of all these processes cited above. Such a pathophysiological approach of OCD is of special importance in the development of new strategies for treating OCD such as deep brain stimulation for instance, an innovative non-lesion neurosurgical procedure, which has recently been introduced in the management of severe, chronic forms of OCD resistant to conventional treatments.
The expression of Drosophila neuropeptide AYRKPPFNGSIFamide (SIFamide) was shown by both immunohistology and in situ hybridization to be restricted to only four neurons of the pars intercerebralis. The role of SIFamide in adult courtship behavior in both sexes was studied using two different approaches to perturb the function of SIFamide; targeted cell ablation and RNA interference (RNAi). Elimination of SIFamide by either of these methods results in promiscuous flies; males perform vigorous and indiscriminant courtship directed at either sex, while females appear sexually hyper-receptive. These results demonstrate that SIFamide is responsible for these behavioral effects and that the four SIFamidergic neurons and arborizations play an important function in the neuronal circuitry controlling Drosophila sexual behavior.
DNA sequences required for the expression of the human presenilin 1 (PS1) gene have been identified between -118 and +178 flanking the major initiation site (+1) mapped in SK-N-SH cells. Several Ets sites are located both upstream as well as downstream from the +1 site, including an Ets motif present at -10 that controls 90% of transcription in SK-N-SH cells. However, in SH-SY5Y cells, transcription initiates further downstream and requires an alternative set of promoter elements including a +90 Ets motif. Ets2, ER81, ERM and Elk1 were identified by yeast one-hybrid selection in a human brain cDNA library using the -10 Ets motif as a bait. We have shown that ERM recognizes specifically Ets motifs on the PS1 promoter located at -10 as well as downstream at +90, +129 and +165 and activates PS1 transcription with promoter fragments whether or not they contain the -10 Ets site. We have now searched for ERM interacting proteins by yeast two-hybrid selection in a human brain cDNA library using the C-terminal 415 amino acid of ERM as a bait. One of the interacting proteins was ZNF237, a member of the MYM gene family. It is widely expressed in different tissues in eukaryotes under several forms derived by alternative splicing, including a large 382 amino acid form containing a single MYM domain, and 2 shorter forms of 208 and 213 amino acids respectively that do not. We show that both the 382 as well as the 208 amino acid forms are expressed in SK-N-SH cells but not in SH-SY5Y cells. Both forms interact with ERM and repress the transcription of PS1 in SH-SY5Y cells. The effect of both C-terminal and N-terminal deletions indicates that the N-terminal 120 amino acid region is required for interaction with ERM in yeast, and furthermore single amino acid mutations show that residues 112 and 114 play an important role. The repression of transcription in SH-SY5Y cells also appears to require the N-terminal potion of ZNF237 and was affected by mutation of the amino acid 112. Data from electrophoretic mobility shift assays indicate that ERM and possibly ZNF237 interact with a fragment of the PS1 promoter.
Rats subjected to stressful stimuli during the stress hyporesponsive period exhibit varied neuroendocrine and behavioral changes as neonates, adolescents and adults. The current work examined the effects of neonatal isolation stress, using a within-litter design, on adult anxiety-related behavior and endocrine stress reactivity. Neonatal rats were isolated daily for 1 h from postnatal day (P) 4 to 9, a manipulation previously shown to induce hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) responses on P9 (Knuth, E.D., Etgen, A.M. (2005) Corticosterone secretion induced by chronic isolation in neonatal rats is sexually dimorphic and accompanied by elevated ACTH. Horm Behav 47:65-75.). Control animals were either handled briefly or left undisturbed (with-dam). Adult rats were tested for anxiety-related behavior using the elevated plus maze and open field, and for endocrine responses following restraint stress. Neonatal isolation decreased center exploration of the open field following 1 h restraint, including decreased time in the center compared to with-dam or handled controls and decreased center entries and distance traveled in the center compared to with-dam controls. It also decreased time in and entries into the open arms of the elevated plus maze compared to handled controls, suggesting enhanced anxiety-related behavior. Neonatal isolation had no effect on basal or restraint-induced levels of ACTH or corticosterone. These findings indicate that neonatal isolation may enhance anxiety-related behaviors, especially in response to stress, without altering HPA function.
The correct positioning of neurons during development--achieved through directed migration--is the basis for proper brain function. Several decades of research have yielded a comprehensive map illustrating the temporal and spatial events underlying neurogenesis and neuronal migration during development. The discovery of distinct migration modes and pathways has been accompanied by the identification of a large interwoven molecular network that transmits extracellular signals into the cell. Moreover, recent work has shed new light on how the cytoskeleton is regulated and coordinated at the molecular and cellular level to execute neuronal migration.
Behavioral studies indicate that the inhibition of glutamatergic system with antagonists of ionotropic glutamate NMDA receptors (NMDA-Rs) during long term morphine administration inhibits the development of morphine tolerance and dependence. In the present study we investigated whether chronic morphine treatment leading to the development of morphine antinociceptive tolerance as observed in tail-flick test in mice, may affect the expression of NMDA-R subunits. The expression of NMDA-R subunits was examined in brain areas mediating nociceptive signaling and responsible for antinociceptive activity of morphine. These included periaqueductal grey matter (PAG) and rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM). The expression of NR1 and all subunits of NR2 family (NR2A, NR2B, NR2C, NR2D) of NMDA receptor complex was examined using immunoblotting method. Although behavioral test indicated that morphine antinociceptive tolerance developed, changes in the expression of NMDA-R subunits were not observed, either in the PAG or in the RVM.
To determine if ethanol vapor is reinforcing, chambers with two nose-poke devices were used. First, C57BL/6J mice were trained to nose-poke at one (FR port) and then to hold a nose-poke for at least 1 s at the second (reward port) for 10% sucrose reinforcement. When mice held reward port nose-pokes for &gt; or = 1 s on 95% of session trials, ethanol vapor (0.05%, w/v) or clean air replaced sucrose. In experiment 1, the FR requirement at the FR port was incremented from 1 to 8. Ethanol vapor (n=3) or clean air (n=3) was delivered for 1 s following a single nose-poke at the reward port after completing response requirements at the FR port. Nose-pokes at the FR port increased with increasing FR to maintain ethanol vapor intake, while clean air intake and its associated responding extinguished. In experiment 2, mice (n=4) controlled the duration of ethanol vapor delivery by providing vapor for as long as the mouse held a single poke in the reward port after completing response requirements at the FR port. Nose-pokes at the FR port increased with increasing FR to maintain ethanol vapor intake at the reward port. These findings indicate that ethanol vapor is reinforcing in adult C57BL/6J male mice.
Recent studies have shown that multiple internal models are acquired in the cerebellum and that these can be switched under a given context of behavior. It has been proposed that long-term depression (LTD) of parallel fiber (PF)-Purkinje cell (PC) synapses forms the cellular basis of cerebellar learning, and that the presynaptically synthesized messenger nitric oxide (NO) is a crucial &quot;gatekeeper&quot; for LTD. Because NO diffuses freely to neighboring synapses, this volume learning is not input-specific and brings into question the biological significance of LTD as the basic mechanism for efficient supervised learning. To better characterize the role of NO in cerebellar learning, we simulated the sequence of electrophysiological and biochemical events in PF-PC LTD by combining established simulation models of the electrophysiology, calcium dynamics, and signaling pathways of the PC. The results demonstrate that the local NO concentration is critical for induction of LTD and for its input specificity. Pre- and postsynaptic coincident firing is not sufficient for a PF-PC synapse to undergo LTD, and LTD is induced only when a sufficient amount of NO is provided by activation of the surrounding PFs. On the other hand, above-adequate levels of activity in nearby PFs cause accumulation of NO, which also allows LTD in neighboring synapses that were not directly stimulated, ruining input specificity. These findings lead us to propose the hypothesis that NO represents the relevance of a given context and enables context-dependent selection of internal models to be updated. We also predict sparse PF activity in vivo because, otherwise, input specificity would be lost.

Touch and mechanical pain are first detected at our largest sensory surface, the skin. The cell bodies of sensory neurons that detect such stimuli are located in the dorsal root ganglia, and subtypes of these neurons are specialized to detect specific modalities of mechanical stimuli. Molecules have been identified that are necessary for mechanosensation in invertebrates but so far not in mammals. In Caenorhabditis elegans, mec-2 is one of several genes identified in a screen for touch insensitivity and encodes an integral membrane protein with a stomatin homology domain. Here we show that about 35% of skin mechanoreceptors do not respond to mechanical stimuli in mice with a mutation in stomatin-like protein 3 (SLP3, also called Stoml3), a mammalian mec-2 homologue that is expressed in sensory neurons. In addition, mechanosensitive ion channels found in many sensory neurons do not function without SLP3. Tactile-driven behaviours are also impaired in SLP3 mutant mice, including touch-evoked pain caused by neuropathic injury. SLP3 is therefore indispensable for the function of a subset of cutaneous mechanoreceptors, and our data support the idea that this protein is an essential subunit of a mammalian mechanotransducer.

The complex behavioral symptoms and neuroanatomical abnormalities observed in autistic individuals strongly suggest a multi-factorial basis for this perplexing disease. Although not the perfect model, we believe the Engrailed genes provide an invaluable &quot;window&quot; into the elusive etiology of autism spectrum disorder. The Engrailed-2 gene has been associated with autism in genetic linkage studies. The En2 knock-out mouse harbors cerebellar abnormalities that are similar to those found in autistic individuals and, as we report here, has a distinct anterior shift in the position of the amygdala in the cerebral cortex. Our initial analysis of background effects in the En1 mouse knock-out provides insight as to possible molecular mechanisms and gender differences associated with autism. These findings further the connection between Engrailed and autism and provide new avenues to explore in the ongoing study of the biological basis of this multifaceted disease.
Social responses are a key element for behavioral phenotyping of mouse models of neurodevelopmental disorders associated with social deficits. Here we describe selected behavioral responses that can be measured in developing and adult mice, with special emphasis on ultrasonic vocalizations, a behavioral response not yet systematically characterized in most of the genetic mouse models of social abnormalities. A recently developed task to measure social approach relevant to the first core symptom of autism is highlighted. We also focus on those developmental factors, including litter size, litter composition, and early social milieu, that are often underestimated when measuring adult social behavior in mouse models of neurodevelopmental disorders. We present a summary of available data concerning social behavioral responses in mice with targeted gene mutations. We conclude by suggesting that assessment of early behavioral traits, and corresponding relationships with adult behavioral profiles, could be a useful strategy to investigate mouse models of neurodevelopmental disorders associated with social deficits.
Voltage-gated sodium (Na(v)) channels accumulate at the axon initial segment (IS), where their high density supports spike initiation. Maintenance of this high density of Na(v) channels involves a macromolecular complex that includes the cytoskeletal linker protein ankyrin-G, the only protein known to bind Na(v) channels and localize them at the IS. We found previously that Na(v)1.6 is the predominant Na(v) channel isoform at IS of adult rodent retinal ganglion cells. However, here we report that Na(v)1.6 immunostaining is consistently reduced or absent in short regions of the IS proximal to the soma, although both ankyrin-G and pan-Na(v) antibodies stain this region. We show that this proximal IS subregion is a unique axonal microdomain, containing an accumulation of Na(v)1.1 channels that are spatially segregated from the Na(v)1.6 channels of the distal IS. Additionally, we find that axonal K(v)1.2 potassium channels are present within the distal IS, but are also excluded from the Na(v)1.1-enriched proximal IS microdomain. Because ankyrin-G was prominent in both proximal and distal subcompartments of the IS, where it colocalized with either Na(v)1.1 or Na(v)1.6, respectively, mechanisms other than association with ankyrin-G must mediate differential targeting of Na(v) channel subtypes to achieve the spatial precision observed within the IS. This precise arrangement of ion channels within the axon initial segment is likely an important determinant of the firing properties of ganglion cells and other mammalian neurons.
Intersectin is a multidomain dynamin-binding protein implicated in numerous functions in the nervous system, including synapse formation and endocytosis. Here, we demonstrate that during neurotransmitter release in the central synapse, intersectin, like its binding partner dynamin, is redistributed from the synaptic vesicle pool to the periactive zone. Acute perturbation of the intersectin-dynamin interaction by microinjection of either intersectin antibodies or Src homology 3 (SH3) domains inhibited endocytosis at the fission step. Although the morphological effects induced by the different reagents were similar, antibody injections resulted in a dramatic increase in dynamin immunoreactivity around coated pits and at constricted necks, whereas synapses microinjected with the GST (glutathione S-transferase)-SH3C domain displayed reduced amounts of dynamin in the neck region. Our data suggest that intersectin controls the amount of dynamin released from the synaptic vesicle cluster to the periactive zone and that it may regulate fission of clathrin-coated intermediates.
During short-term synaptic depression, neurotransmission rapidly decreases in response to repetitive action potential firing. Here, by blocking the vacuolar ATPase, alkalinizing the extracellular pH, or exposing hippocampal slices to pH buffers, we impaired neurotransmitter refilling, and electrophysiologically tested the role of vesicle reuse in synaptic depression. Under all conditions, synapses onto hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells showed faster depression with increasing stimulation frequencies. At 20 Hz, compromising neurotransmitter refilling increased depression within 300 ms reaching completion within 2 s, suggesting a minimal contribution of reserve vesicles to neurotransmission. In contrast, at 1 Hz, depression emerged gradually and became significant within 100 s. Moreover, the depression induced by pH buffers was reversible with a similar frequency dependence, suggesting that the frequency-dependent increase in depression was caused by impairment of rapid synaptic vesicle reuse. These results indicate that synaptic vesicle trafficking impacts the kinetics of short-term synaptic plasticity at an extremely rapid time scale.
The medial septum and diagonal band of Broca (MSDB) are major afferents to the hippocampus and are important for learning, memory, and hippocampal theta rhythm. In the present study, we assessed the effect of cholinergic or noncholinergic MSDB lesions on the sequential learning of different goal locations in the same environment, a type of task that is proposed to require hippocampal theta rhythm. Rats were administered saline, 192-IgG saporin (SAP), or kainic acid (KA) into the MSDB and then behaviorally tested. On any day, a single arm of a radial maze was rewarded with food, but the location of this rewarded arm changed between days. As in previous studies, intraseptal SAP reduced the number of cholinergic neurons although sparing GABAergic septohippocampal neurons. KA had the reverse effect, reducing GABAergic septohippocampal neurons and sparing cholinergic neurons. KA, but not SAP, impaired performance on the repeated acquisition task. Saline and SAP rats showed rapid within-session learning, whereas KA rats were much slower to learn the goal location. Performance on a 30 min retention trial was also impaired, although this may be attributable to incomplete acquisition. These findings provide evidence that noncholinergic, but not cholinergic, MSDB neurons are important in helping the animal deal with high loads of memory interference, and provides partial support for the idea that hippocampal theta rhythm is involved.
Protein interactions within the active zone of the nerve terminal are critical for regulation of transmitter release. The SNARE protein syntaxin 1A, primarily known for important interactions that control vesicle fusion, also interacts with presynaptic voltage-gated calcium channels. Based on recordings of calcium channel function in vitro, it has been hypothesized that syntaxin 1A-calcium channel interactions could alter calcium channel function at synapses. However, results at synapses in vitro suggest two potentially opposing roles: enhancement of neurotransmitter release by positioning docked vesicles near calcium channels and inhibition of calcium channel function by interaction with SNARE proteins. We have examined the possibility that these two effects of syntaxin can occur at synapses by studying the effects on transmitter release of manipulating syntaxin 1A-calcium channel interactions at Xenopus tadpole tail neuromuscular synapses in vivo. Introduction of synprint peptides, which competitively perturb syntaxin 1A-calcium channel interactions, decreased quantal content at these synapses and increased paired-pulse and tetanic facilitation. In contrast, injecting mRNA for mutant (A240V, V244A) syntaxin 1A, which reduces calcium channel modulation but not binding in vitro, increased quantal content and decreased paired-pulse and tetanic facilitation. Injection of wild-type syntaxin 1A mRNA had no effect. The opposing effects of synprint peptides and mutant syntaxin 1A provide in vivo support for the hypothesis that these interactions serve both to colocalize calcium channels with the release machinery and to modulate the functional state of the calcium channel. As such, these two effects of syntaxin on calcium channels modulate transmitter release in a bidirectional manner.
The CA1 region of the rat hippocampal slice generates spontaneous electrographic seizures (field bursts) when exposed to ACSF containing &lt; or = 0.2 mM calcium. It has been proposed that, particularly during the early part of a field burst, synchronised activity in small independent aggregates of neurons results in low amplitude irregular population spikes and subsequent fusion of aggregates generates high amplitude, regular discharging spikes. In the present experiments, we have tested the hypothesis that progression from aggregate formation to aggregate fusion requires a critical mass of participating neurons. We found that isolated CA1 segments &gt;2 mm are still able to generate high amplitude, regular discharging population spikes, but when segment length is reduced to 1-2 mm, only 29% generate spikes with these characteristics; in the remainder, the field burst shows a DC shift+/-low amplitude irregular population spikes. No field bursts were seen in segments &lt; 0.7 mm or in 50% of those 0.7-1 mm in length (in the remaining 50%, only the DC component of the field burst was present). Exposing 1-2 mm segments to hypo-osmolar perfusate induced a return of high amplitude rhythmic discharging population spikes in the field burst. We interpret these observations by indicating that progression from aggregate formation to aggregate fusion requires a critical neuronal mass and can be enhanced by reducing osmolarity of the perfusate.

The dual rhythm model of dreaming states that, under high sensory thresholds, heightened general cortical activation common to both REM/NREM and circadian-driven activation cycles sums to produce the main characteristics of dreaming. In addition, the unique pattern of regional brain activation characteristic of REM sleep amplifies the emotional intensity of the dream. Subjects were awakened from REM and NREM sleep once near the nadir of the core body temperature rhythm, where circadian-driven cortical activation was assumed to be low, and again in the late morning, where this activation was presumed to be high. As predicted, changes in the central characteristics of dream reports mirrored REM/NREM and circadian-driven fluctuations in general activation, while at the same time, the regional activation pattern unique to REM sleep amplified dream emotionality selectively in REM reports.
In 1906, the first Nobel prize in the neurosciences was awarded jointly to Camillo Golgi and Santiago Ramn y Cajal in recognition of their work on the structure of the nervous system. The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine linked together forever these two scientists. One century later, what remains of their opposite views on the brain?
The nature of &quot;soul&quot; and the source of &quot;psychic life&quot;, the anatomical seat of cognitive, motor and sensory functions, and the origin of neural diseases were broadly debated by ancient Greek scientists since the earliest times. Within the space of few centuries, speculation of philosophers and medical thinkers laid the foundations of modern experimental and clinical neuroscience. This review provides a brief history of the leading doctrines on the essence of soul and the properties of mind professed by Greek philosophers and physicians as well as the early attempts to localize brain faculties and to explain neural disorders.


Faces convey a great variety of information, for example about the species, gender, age, identity and even mood or intentions. A recent study sheds light on the neural mechanisms for encoding a face's gaze direction.

The accuracy of estimating intracranial pressure in brain tissue (ICP(BT)) via lumbar space was investigated using preset pressure levels in the interval 0 to 600 mm H(2)O in patients with communicating hydrocephalus. Lumbar space ICP correlated excellently to ICP(BT), demonstrated by a measured mean difference of 10 mm H(2)O (0.75 mm Hg) and a regression coefficient of 0.98. The concurrence supports the lumbar puncture as an accurate technique to determine ICP in patients with communicating CSF systems.

The ability to envision specific future episodes is a ubiquitous mental phenomenon that has seldom been discussed in the neuroscience literature. In this study, subjects underwent functional MRI while using event cues (e.g., Birthday) as a guide to vividly envision a personal future event, remember a personal memory, or imagine an event involving a familiar individual. Two basic patterns of data emerged. One set of regions (e.g., within left lateral premotor cortex; left precuneus; right posterior cerebellum) was more active while envisioning the future than while recollecting the past (and more active in both of these conditions than in the task involving imagining another person). These regions appear similar to those emerging from the literature on imagined (simulated) bodily movements. A second set of regions (e.g., bilateral posterior cingulate; bilateral parahippocampal gyrus; left occipital cortex) demonstrated indistinguishable activity during the future and past tasks (but greater activity in both tasks than the imagery control task); similar regions have been shown to be important for remembering previously encountered visual-spatial contexts. Hence, differences between the future and past tasks are attributed to differences in the demands placed on regions that underlie motor imagery of bodily movements, and similarities in activity for these two tasks are attributed to the reactivation of previously experienced visual-spatial contexts. That is, subjects appear to place their future scenarios in well known visual-spatial contexts. Our results offer insight into the fundamental and little-studied capacity of vivid mental projection of oneself in the future.
The expression of plasma membrane Ca(2+)-ATPase, a calcium pump located in cell membrane regulating intracellular Ca(2+) levels by Ca(2+) extrusion from cells, was examined in dorsal root ganglion neurons in naive rats and after spinal nerve ligation. The mRNAs and proteins in plasma membrane Ca(2+)-ATPase 1-3 were expressed in all size neurons with intense labeling in medium to large neurons. After spinal nerve ligation, these three isoforms showed downregulation of their expression. In contrast, plasma membrane Ca(2+)-ATPase 4 was expressed mainly in small neurons, and the number and signal intensity were significantly increased after spinal nerve ligation. These data suggest that plasma membrane Ca(2+)-ATPase isoforms have a distinct pattern of expression and regulation by axotomy in dorsal root ganglion neurons in normal and pathological conditions.
Attractiveness is a facial attribute that shapes human affiliative behaviours. In a previous study we reported a linear response to facial attractiveness in orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), a region involved in reward processing. There are strong theoretical grounds for the hypothesis that coding stimulus reward value also involves the amygdala. The aim of the present investigation is to address whether the amygdala is also sensitive to reward value in faces, indexed as facial attractiveness. We hypothesized that contrary to the linear effects reported previously in OFC, the amygdala would show a non-linear effect of attractiveness by responding to both high and low attractive faces relative to middle attractive faces. Such a non-linear response would explain previous failures to report an amygdala response to attractiveness. Human subjects underwent fMRI while they were presented with faces that varied in facial attractiveness where the task was either to rate faces for facial attractiveness or for age. Consistent with our hypothesis, right amygdala showed a predicted non-linear response profile with greater responses to highly attractive and unattractive faces compared to middle-ranked faces, independent of task. Distinct patterns of activity were seen across different regions of OFC, with some sectors showing linear effects of attractiveness, others exhibiting a non-linear response profile and still others demonstrating activation only during age judgments. Significant effects were also seen in medial prefrontal and paracingulate cortices, posterior OFC, insula, and superior temporal sulcus during explicit attractiveness judgments. The non-linear response profile of the amygdala is consistent with a role in sensing the value of social stimuli, a function that may also involve specific sectors of the OFC.
Abnormalities in social functioning are a significant feature of schizophrenia. One critical aspect of these abnormalities is the difficulty these individuals have with the recognition of facial emotions, particularly negative expressions such as fear. The present work focuses on fear perception and its relationship to the paranoid symptoms of schizophrenia, specifically, how underlying limbic system structures (i.e. the amygdala) react when probed with dynamic fearful facial expressions. Seven paranoid and eight non-paranoid subjects (all males) with a diagnosis of schizophrenia took part in functional magnetic resonance imaging study (1.5T) examining neural responses to emerging fearful expressions contrasted with dissipating fearful expressions. Subjects viewed emerging and dissipating expressions while completing a gender discrimination task. Their brain activation was compared to that of 10 healthy male subjects. Increased hippocampal activation was seen in the non-paranoid group, while abnormalities in the bilateral amygdalae were observed only in the paranoid individuals. These patterns may represent trait-related hippocampal dysfunction, coupled with state (specifically paranoia) related amygdala abnormalities. The findings are discussed in light of models of paranoia in schizophrenia.
Amygdala damage has been associated with impairments in perceiving facial expressions of fear. However, deficits in perceiving other emotions, such as anger, and deficits in perceiving emotion blends have not been definitively established. One possibility is that methods used to index expression perception are susceptible to heuristic use, which may obscure impairments. To examine this, we adapted a task used to examine categorical perception of morphed facial expressions [Etcoff, N. L., &amp; Magee, J. J. (1992). Categorical perception of facial expressions. Cognition, 44(3), 227-240]. In one version of the task, expressions were categorized with unlimited time constraints. In the other, expressions were presented with limited exposure durations to tap more automatic aspects of processing. Three morph progressions were employed: neutral to anger, neutral to fear, and fear to anger. Both tasks were administered to a participant with bilateral amygdala damage (S.P.), age- and education-matched controls, and young controls. The second task was also administered to unilateral temporal lobectomy patients. In the first version, S.P. showed impairments relative to normal controls on the neutral-to-anger and fear-to-anger morphs, but not on the neutral-to-fear morph. However, reaction times suggested that speed-accuracy tradeoffs could account for results. In the second version, S.P. showed impairments on all morph types relative to all other subject groups. A third experiment showed that this deficit did not extend to the perception of morphed identities. These results imply that when heuristics use is discouraged on tasks utilizing subtle emotion transitions, deficits in the perception of anger and anger/fear blends, as well as fear, are evident with bilateral amygdala damage.
Although the aetiology of psychotic symptoms in Alzheimer's disease (AD) is multi-factorial, alterations in serotonergic neurotransmission are often implicated. Polymorphisms of the serotonin receptor 5HT-2A are associated with hallucinatory symptoms and delusions in demented and non-demented cohorts. This study examined the role of the 5HT-2A T102C polymorphism in influencing psychotic symptoms in a large Northern Ireland AD population (n = 406, mean MMSE 13/30). Forty-eight percent of patients experienced delusional symptoms and 28% experienced hallucinations during the course of their dementia. No significant association was found either in frequency of genotype or allelic variation for either set of symptoms. Furthermore, the mean delusional and hallucinatory severity scores did not differ significantly among the three genotype groups. The lack of influence of the T102C polymorphism of the 5HT-2A receptor on the emergence of psychotic symptoms in AD contrasts with previous reports in other cohorts involving smaller numbers of subjects.
It is hypothesized that the presence of psychotic features may define a subtype of bipolar disorder that is more homogeneous in its genetic predisposition than bipolar disorder as a whole. We used psychosis as an alternative phenotype definition in a re-analysis of the NIMH Bipolar Genetics Initiative data sets. In this analysis we selected only those families in which at least two members were diagnosed with bipolar disorder type 1 with psychotic features. This analysis identified a linkage signal on chromosome 5q33-q34, a region previously implicated in independent linkage studies of schizophrenia and of psychosis, broadly defined. This finding is consistent with the hypothesis that susceptibility to psychosis may characterize at least a subtype of bipolar disorder.
Our ability to use human embryonic stem (hES) cells in cell replacement therapy for Parkinson's disease depends on the discovery of ways to simply and reliably differentiate a dopaminergic (DA) phenotype in these cells. Although several protocols exist for the differentiation of DA traits in hES, they involve the prolonged use of complex media with undefined components, cell conditioned media and/or co-culture with various cells, usually of animal origin. In this study, several well-characterized (H9, BG01) and several new uncharacterized (HUES7, HUES8) hES cell lines were studied for their capacity to differentiate into DA neurons in culture using a novel rapid protocol which uses only chemically-defined human-derived media additives and substrata. Within 3 weeks, cells from all 4 cell lines progressed from the undifferentiated state to beta-tubulin III positive cells expressing DA markers in vitro. Moreover, transplantation of these cells into the striata of 6-hydroxydopamine-treated rats at the neuronal progenitor stage resulted in the appearance of differentiated DA traits in vivo 2-3 weeks later.
The transcription factor NF-E2-related factor (Nrf2) regulates the induction of phase 2 detoxifying enzymes by oxidative stress, including synthesis of the catalytic subunit (xCT) of the heterodimeric cystine-glutamate exchanger (system xc-). Repeated cocaine treatment in rats causes persistent neuroadaptations in glutamate neurotransmission in the nucleus accumbens that result, in part, from reduced activity of system xc-. Since in vitro under- or over-expression of Nrf2 regulates system xc- activity and xCT content, it was hypothesized that in vivo deletion of the Nrf2 gene would: 1) decrease system xc- activity, 2) produce a behavioral phenotype resembling that elicited by chronic cocaine administration, and 3) enhance dopamine depletion after methamphetamine-induced oxidative stress. In all three experiments no genotypic difference was measured between mice sustaining homozygous Nrf2 gene deletion and wild-type littermates. Thus, while Nrf2 is a transcriptional regulator of xCT and capable of protecting cells from oxidative stress, following Nrf2 gene deletion this role can be partially compensated by other mechanisms and methamphetamine-induced oxidative stress and dopamine toxicity does not significantly involve Nrf2.
Cannabinoid agonists exert complex actions on modulatory neurotransmitters involved in attention and cognition. Previous studies have demonstrated that acute systemic administration of the synthetic cannabinoid agonist, WIN 55,212-2, increases norepinephrine efflux in the rat frontal cortex. In an effort to elucidate whether cannabinoid (CB1) receptors are positioned to presynaptically modulate norepinephrine release in the frontal cortex, immunocytochemical detection of the CB1 receptor and the catecholamine-synthesizing enzyme dopamine-beta-hydroxylase (DbetaH) was performed using confocal immunofluorescence microscopy and immunoelectron microscopy in rat brain. Fluorescence microscopy analysis of dually labeled tissue sections from the frontal cortex indicated that individual axonal processes exhibited both CB1 receptor and DbetaH immunoreactivities. Ultrastructural analysis confirmed that one-third of axon terminals containing CB1 immunolabeling also exhibited DbetaH labeling. Cortical neurons were also found to be targeted by separately labeled CB1- and DbetaH-containing axon terminals. In conclusion, the present neuroanatomical data suggest that cortical norepinephrine release may be modulated, in part, by CB1 receptors that are presynaptically distributed on noradrenergic axon terminals.
The neural representation of facial expression within the human visual system is not well defined. Using an adaptation paradigm, we examined aftereffects on expression perception produced by various stimuli. Adapting to a face, which was used to create morphs between two expressions, substantially biased expression perception within the morphed faces away from the adapting expression. This adaptation was not based on low-level image properties, as a different image of the same person displaying that expression produced equally robust aftereffects. Smaller but significant aftereffects were generated by images of different individuals, irrespective of gender. Non-face visual, auditory, or verbal representations of emotion did not generate significant aftereffects. These results suggest that adaptation affects at least two neural representations of expression: one specific to the individual (not the image), and one that represents expression across different facial identities. The identity-independent aftereffect suggests the existence of a 'visual semantic' for facial expression in the human visual system.

Recognition memory was assessed in adult rats that received bilateral injections of saline (sham lesions) or ibotenic acid (lesioned) in the ventral hippocampus as neonates (postnatal day 7, PD7) or young adult (42 days of age, PD42) using the Novel Object Recognition Test (NORT). Normal or sham-lesioned rats were able to distinguish novel from familiar objects over a 0.5 and 2 h delay between the sample and choice phases. Adult rats (PD70) lesioned as neonates performed progressively worse than sham-lesioned animals at delays of 0.5 and 2 h. A single injection of darbepoetin alfa (500 or 5000 U/kg, i.p.), given 1 h before the sample phase restored performance 0.5 or 2 h later in the choice phase to same levels as sham-lesioned rats. Adults lesioned on PD42 displayed deficits in NORT performance with a 2 h delay between the choice and sample phases that were completely reversed by administration of darbepoetin alfa (5000 U/kg, i.p.) 1 h before the sample phase. These results suggest that darbepoetin alfa may have utility in treating memory deficits associated with brain dysfunction related to developmental disorders such as schizophrenia.
Purine receptors have been implicated in central neurotransmission from nociceptive primary afferent neurons, and ATP-mediated currents in sensory neurons have been shown to be mediated by both P2X3 and P2X2/3 receptors. The aim of the present study was to quantitatively examine the distribution of P2X2 and P2X3 receptors in primary afferent cell bodies in the rat trigeminal ganglion, including those innervating the dura. In order to determine the classes of neurons that express these receptor subtypes, purine receptor immunoreactivity was examined for colocalization with markers of myelinated (neurofilament 200; NF200) or mostly unmyelinated, non-peptidergic fibers (Bandeiraea simplicifolia isolectin B4; IB4). Forty percent of P2X2 and 64% of P2X3 receptor-expressing cells were IB4 positive, and 33% of P2X2 and 31% of P2X3 receptor-expressing cells were NF200 positive. Approximately 40% of cells expressing P2X2 receptors also expressed P2X3 receptors and vice versa. Trigeminal ganglion neurons innervating the dura mater were retrogradely labeled and 52% of these neurons expressed either P2X2 or P2X3 or both receptors. These results are consistent with electrophysiological findings that P2X receptors exist on the central terminals of trigeminal afferent neurons, and provide evidence that afferents supplying the dura express both receptors. In addition, the data suggest specific differences exist in P2X receptor expression between the spinal and trigeminal nociceptive systems.
Using whole cell patch-clamp recording from pyramidal cells and interneurons in the CA1 area of hippocampal slices, the effect of IEM-1460, a selective channel blocker of Ca2+ permeable AMPA receptors (AMPARs), on postsynaptic currents (PSCs) was studied. Excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) were evoked by stimulation of Schaffer collaterals (SCs) in the presence of APV and bicuculline to pharmacologically isolate the EPSCs mediated by AMPAR activation. IEM-1460 (50 microM) did not affect the amplitude of EPSCs in CA1 pyramidal cells but reversibly decreased their amplitude in interneurons of pyramidal layer (15 cells), radiatum (37 cells) and border radiatum-lacunosum-moleculare (R-LM) (55 cells) layers. The ability of IEM-1460 to decrease EPSC amplitude correlated with EPSC rectification properties in CA1 interneurons, providing evidence for synaptic localization of Ca2+ permeable AMPARs at the SC synaptic input. Independent of their localization, the majority of interneurons studied exhibited only modest sensitivity to IEM-1460 (EPSC amplitude decreased by less than 30%), while in 15% of interneurons IEM-1460 induced more than 50% reduction in EPSC amplitude. To reveal possible afferent-specific localization of Ca2+ permeable AMPARs on R-LM interneurons, the effect of IEM-1460 on EPSCs evoked by stimulation of SC was compared with that of perforant path (PP). Although average sensitivities did not differ significantly, in 61% of R-LM layer interneurons, the SC-evoked EPSCs exhibited higher sensitivity to IEM-1460 than the PP-evoked EPSCs. Moreover, in 54% of R-LM layer interneurons the EPSCs evoked by SC stimulation were complex, having an initial peak followed by one or several late components. Kinetics, latency distribution and reversal potential of late components suggest di- and polysynaptic origin of the late components. Late EPSCs were strongly and reversibly inhibited by IEM-1460 indicating that Ca2+ permeable AMPARs are involved in the indirect excitation of R-LM layer interneurons. Despite the ability to decrease the excitatory synaptic input to interneurons, IEM-1460 did not affect interneuron-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) evoked in pyramidal neurons by SC stimulation. These data suggest that interneurons with a synaptic input highly sensitive to IEM-1460 do not contribute specifically to the feed-forward inhibition of hippocampal pyramidal neurons.
1-Methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP+), an inhibitor of mitochondrial complex I, has been widely used as a neurotoxin because it elicits a severe Parkinson's disease-like syndrome with an elevation of intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) and apoptosis. L-carnitine plays an integral role in attenuating the brain injury associated with mitochondrial neurodegenerative disorders. The present study investigates the effects of L-carnitine against the toxicity of MPP+ in rat forebrain primary cultures. Cells in culture were treated for 24 h with 100, 250, 500 and 1000 microM MPP+ alone or co-incubated with L-carnitine. MPP+ produced a dose-related increase in DNA fragmentation as measured by cell death ELISA (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay), an increase in the number of TUNEL (terminal dUTP nick-end labeling)-positive cells and a reduction in the mitochondrial metabolism of 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT). No significant effect was observed with the release of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), indicating that cell death presumably occurred via apoptotic mechanisms. Co-incubation of MPP+ with L-carnitine significantly reduced MPP+-induced apoptosis. Western blot analyses showed that neurotoxic concentrations of MPP+ decreased the ratio of BCL-X(L) to Bax and decreased the protein levels of polysialic acid neural cell adhesion molecules (PSA-NCAM), a neuron specific marker. L-carnitine blocked these effects of MPP+ suggesting its potential therapeutic utility in degenerative disorders such as Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency and other mitochondrial diseases.
Protein kinase B (PKB/Akt) is a member of the second-messenger regulated subfamily of protein kinases. It is implicated in signaling downstream of growth factors, insulin receptor tyrosine kinases and phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K). Current studies indicate that nerve growth factor (NGF), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and PI3K help mediate inflammatory hyperalgesia. However, little is known about the role of PKB/Akt in the nociceptive system. In this study, we investigated whether PKB/Akt in primary sensory neurons is activated after noxious stimulation and contributes to pain behavior induced in rats by capsaicin. We demonstrated that phospho-PKB/Akt (p-PKB/Akt) is increased in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) at 5 min after intradermal injection of capsaicin. p-PKB/Akt is distributed predominantly in small- and medium-sized DRG cells. After capsaicin injection, p-PKB/Akt (473) is colocalized with isotectin-B4 (IB4), tyrosine kinase A (TrkA), and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP). Furthermore, most transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 (TRPV1) positive DRG neurons double label for p-PKB/Akt. Behavioral experiments show that intradermal injection of a PI3K (upstream of PKB/Akt) inhibitor, wortmannin, dose-dependently inhibits the changes in exploratory behavior evoked by capsaicin injection. The PKB/Akt inhibitor, Akt inhibitor IV, has the same effect. The results suggest that the PKB/Akt signaling pathway in the periphery is activated by noxious stimulation and contributes to pain behavior.
The present study quantified the cleaved form of the microtubule-associated protein tau (cleaved MAP-tau, C-tau), a previously demonstrated marker of CNS toxicity, following the administration of monoamine-depleting regimens of the psychostimulant drugs amphetamine (AMPH), methamphetamine (METH), +/-3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA), or para-methoxyamphetamine (PMA) in an attempt to further characterize psychostimulant-induced toxicity. A dopamine (DA)-depleting regimen of AMPH produced an increase in C-tau immunoreactivity in the striatum, while a DA- and serotonin (5-HT)-depleting regimen of METH produced an increase in the number of C-tau immunoreactive cells in the striatum and CA2/CA3 and dentate gyrus regions of the hippocampus. MDMA and PMA, two psychostimulant drugs that produce selective 5-HT depletion in the striatum, had no effect on C-tau immunoreactivity in the striatum or hippocampus. Furthermore, 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (5,7-DHT), an established 5-HT selective neurotoxin, did not produce an increase in C-tau immunoreactivity. Dual fluorescent immunocytochemistry with antibodies to glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and C-tau indicated that C-tau immunoreactivity was present in astrocytes, not neurons, suggesting that increased C-tau may be an alternative indicator of reactive gliosis. The present results are consistent with previous findings that the DA-depleting psychostimulants AMPH and METH produce reactive gliosis whereas the 5-HT-depleting drugs MDMA and PMA, as well as the known 5-HT selective neurotoxin 5,7-DHT, do not produce an appreciable glial response.
Currently available antipsychotic medications work primarily by antagonizing D2 dopamine receptors, thus raising intracellular cAMP levels. We hypothesized that intracellular stimulation of cAMP levels in the CNS would have similar effects to treatment with antipsychotic medication. To test this hypothesis, we studied the effect of an acute treatment of rolipram, an inhibitor of type 4 phosphodiesterases that degrade cAMP, on acoustic startle and prepulse inhibition (PPI) of the acoustic startle response in C57BL/6J mice known to exhibit poor PPI. PPI is disrupted in schizophrenia patients, and the ability of a drug to increase PPI in mice is predictive of antipsychotic efficacy. We show here that acute treatment with rolipram significantly increases PPI at doses that do not alter the acoustic startle response (lowest effective dose 0.66 mg/kg). In addition, rolipram (0.66 mg/kg) blocks the disruptive effects of amphetamine (10 mg/kg) on PPI. At a slightly higher dose (1.0 mg/kg), rolipram also induces catalepsy. Thus, phosphodiesterase-4 (PDE4) inhibition has many of the same behavioral effects as traditional antipsychotic medications. In contrast to traditional antipsychotics, these effects are achieved through alteration of an intracellular second messenger system rather than antagonism of neurotransmitter receptors. Given previous reports showing rolipram improves cognition, we conclude that PDE4 represents an important novel target for further antipsychotic drug development.
The amygdala is important for the formation of emotions that are affected by olfactory information. The piriform cortex is involved in information processing related to olfaction. To investigate functional interactions between the piriform cortex and amygdala and their relation to medullary respiratory activity, we developed a novel in vitro preparation including the limbic system, brainstem, and spinal cord of newborn rats. With the use of optical and electrophysiologic recordings, we analyzed spontaneous neuronal activity in the piriform-amygdala complex in limbic-brainstem-spinal cord preparations from 0- to 1-day-old rats. For optical recordings, the preparation was stained with a voltage-sensitive dye, and inspiratory activity was monitored from the fourth cervical (C4) ventral root. Spontaneous oscillatory burst activity (up to 10/min) was detected from the rostral cut surface of limbic and para-limbic regions including the piriform cortex and amygdala. The burst activity initially appeared in the piriform cortex and then propagated to the amygdala. We averaged the imaging data in the limbic area with the use of C4 inspiratory activity as a trigger signal. The results suggest functional coupling of the rhythmic burst activity in the piriform-amygdala complex to medullary inspiratory activity, which was confirmed electrophysiologically by cross-correlation analysis of these signals. This rhythmic burst activity may be involved in the development of neuronal circuits that process information related to olfaction, emotion, and respiration.
Depression is characterized by alterations in the circadian secretion of hormones, sleep and motor activity, all of which are regulated by suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN). The vestibular system in the inner ear registers the amount of motor activity. To test the integrity of this motion sensitive system in depression, we studied the vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) in depressive patients who were not taking medication and healthy control subjects, which allowed us to investigate each ear and its corresponding nerve centers. Ocular reflex movement depends on vestibular nuclei activity, and we found that at 30 degrees C stimulation the right vestibular system in depressive patients has approximately half the activity of the left side. Significant asymmetry was not detected in control subjects. We also found a significant decrease in the slow phase (16.92+/-9.13 degrees/s) of the reflex in the depressed group as compared with the control group (43.77+/-16.04 degrees/s). The vestibular nuclei of the right and left sides are hypoactive. Specifically, the right vestibular nucleus is hypoactive in depressed people and can easily be measured using VOR. These results support the abnormal asymmetries hypothesis of depression and suggest that these asymmetries also exist at the level of the brain stem or neuronal centers that are afferents to right vestibular nuclei, like SCN or raphe nuclei.
Relaxin-3 (RLX3) is a newly identified member of the relaxin/insulin peptide family that is highly conserved across a range of species from fish to mammals and is highly expressed in rat, mouse and human brain. Extensive pharmacological studies have demonstrated that RLX3 is a high affinity, selective ligand for G-protein-coupled receptor-135 (GPCR135, now classified as relaxin family peptide-3 receptor; RXFP3). In ongoing studies to understand the physiological functions of RLX3, the distribution of RLX3-containing neuronal elements in rat brain was determined by immunohistochemistry, using an affinity-purified polyclonal antiserum raised against a conserved segment of the RLX3 C-peptide (AS-R3(85-101)). Consistent with the distribution of RLX3 mRNA, neurons containing RLX3-like immunoreactivity (LI) were observed in the pontine nucleus incertus and the majority of these cells, which are known to express corticotropin-releasing factor receptor-1, were shown to express glutamic acid decarboxylase-65-immunoreactivity, suggesting a GABA phenotype. Nerve fibers and terminals containing RLX3-LI were observed adjacent to cells in the nucleus incertus and in various forebrain regions known to receive afferents from the nucleus incertus, including cortex, septum, hippocampus, thalamus, hypothalamus and midbrain. Regions that contained highest densities of RLX3-positive fibers included the medial septum, lateral preoptic area, lateral hypothalamus/medial forebrain bundle and ventral hippocampus; and additional fibers were observed in olfactory bulb and olfactory and frontal/cingulate cortices, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, dorsal endopiriform, intergeniculate, and supramammillary nuclei, and the periaqueductal gray and dorsal raphe. The RLX3-positive network overlapped the regional distribution of GPCR135 mRNA and specific binding sites for an [125I]-GPCR135-selective, chimeric peptide. These anatomical findings further support the proposition that RLX3 is the endogenous ligand for GPCR135 in rat brain and provide evidence for broad modulatory activity of RLX3 in behavioral activation relating to autonomic and neuroendocrine control of metabolism and reproduction and higher-order processes such as stress and cognition.
Peripheral inflammation induces central sensitization characterized by the development of allodynia and hyperalgesia to thermal stimuli. Recent evidence suggests that activation of glial cells and a subsequent increase in proinflammatory cytokines contribute to the development of behavioral hypersensitivity after nerve injury or peripheral inflammation. The neuropeptide nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ), the endogenous agonist of the N/OFQ peptide receptor (ORL1 receptor), has been demonstrated to play an important role in modulation of nociceptive signals. In the present study, we investigated: (1) astrocyte activation and proinflammatory cytokine expression at the lumbar spinal cord following intraplantar administration of complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) in rats; (2) the mechanism of N/OFQ on nociception modulation, the relationship between N/OFQ and cytokines in the rat CNS in vivo and in vitro. The results showed: (1) CFA-induced peripheral inflammation evoked robust astrocyte activation and proinflammatory cytokines spinally; (2) down-regulation of cytokine mRNA transcripts by intrathecal administration of N/OFQ, the effects produced by N/OFQ were abolished by combination with ORL1 receptor-specific antagonist [Nphe(1)]N/OFQ(1-13)NH2; (3) ORL1 receptor was expressed on astrocytes of rat spinal cord; (4) cytokine gene expression was inhibited in astrocyte cultures exposed to N/OFQ, the inhibiting effects of N/OFQ were significantly blocked by [Nphe(1)]N/OFQ(1-13)NH2. The present data demonstrated that astrocyte activation and enhanced cytokine expression at the CNS had a role in eliciting behavioral hypersensitivity; the anti-nociception function of N/OFQ might be dependent on cytokines derived from astrocytes, the effects were attributable to the ORL1 receptor pathway.
Human subjects respond to low-intensity electric and magnetic fields. If the ability to do so were a form of sensory transduction, one would expect that fields could trigger evoked potentials, as do other sensory stimuli. We tested this hypothesis by examining electroencephalograms from 17 subjects for the presence of evoked potentials caused by the onset and by the offset of 2 G, 60 Hz (a field strength comparable to that in the general environment). Both linear (time averaging) and nonlinear (recurrence analysis) methods of data analysis were employed to permit an assessment of the dynamical nature of the stimulus/response relationship. Using the method of recurrence analysis, magnetosensory evoked potentials (MEPs) in the signals from occipital derivations were found in 16 of the subjects (P&lt;0.05 for each subject). The potentials occurred 109-454 ms after stimulus application, depending on the subject, and were triggered by onset of the field, offset of the field, or both. Using the method of time averaging, no MEPs were detected. MEPs in the signals from the central and parietal electrodes were found in most subjects using recurrence analysis, but no MEPs were detected using time averaging. The occurrence of MEPs in response to a weak magnetic field suggested the existence of a human magnetic sense. In distinction to the evoked potentials ordinarily studied, MEPs were nonlinearly related to the stimulus as evidenced by the need to employ a nonlinear method to detect the responses.
Since partial peripheral injury does not necessarily lead to the development of neuropathic pain it is possible that a set of genes is directly regulated by the development of neuropathic pain independent of the genes regulated by nerve injury. This study identifies the genes expressed within the spinal cord that are uniquely regulated by tactile allodynia in rats. Using subtractive methods, genes regulated by allodynia were differentiated from those of nerve injury. Gene ontology analysis identified that allodynic genes are involved in a variety of processes including myelination, actin cytoskeleton reorganization, dephosphorylation, phosphorylation, response to stress, as well as protein trafficking and RNA processing. The processes of protein trafficking and RNA processing were found to be as statistically significant as other processes that have been associated with neuropathic pain development such as response to stress, phosphorylation, and cell migration. Trafficking and transcription are linked and undergo activity dependent regulation which results in both rapid and gradual synaptic changes (plasticity). The data presented here greatly expand the list of genes regulated by the development of tactile allodynia and reveal protein trafficking and RNA processing as prominent biological processes that may be involved in synaptic plasticity changes within the spinal cord in response to allodynia.
We previously showed that prolonged morphine treatment and chronic inflammation both enhanced delta opioid receptor (deltaOR) cell surface density in lumbar spinal cord neurons. Here, we sought to determine whether administration of morphine to rats with chronic inflammation would further increase the bio-availability of deltaOR, and thereby the analgesic properties of the deltaOR agonist deltorphin, over that produced by inflammation alone. We found that chronic inflammation produced by injection of complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) into the hind paw resulted in a bilateral increase in the binding and internalization of fluorescent deltorphin in neurons of the lumbar spinal cord as did prolonged morphine treatment [Morinville A, Cahill CM, Aibak H, Rymar VV, Pradhan A, Hoffert C, Mennicken F, Stroh T, Sadikot AF, O'Donnell D, Clarke PB, Collier B, Henry JL, Vincent JP, Beaudet A (2004a) Morphine-induced changes in delta opioid receptor trafficking are linked to somatosensory processing in the rat spinal cord. J Neurosci 24:5549-5559]. This effect was accompanied by an increase in the antinociceptive efficacy of intrathecal deltorphin as measured using the tail-flick test. Treatment of CFA-injected rats with morphine decreased the cell surface availability of deltaOR in neurons of the dorsal horn of the lumbar spinal cord as compared with treatment with CFA alone. Behaviorally, it significantly enhanced the antihyperalgesic effects of deltorphin (plantar test; % maximum possible antihyperalgesic effect (MPAHE)=113.5%+/-32.4% versus 26.1%+/-11.6% in rats injected with CFA alone) but strongly reduced the antinociceptive efficacy of the drug (tail-flick test; % maximum possible antinociceptive effect (MPE)=29.6%+/-3.6% versus 66.6%+/-6.3% in rats injected with CFA alone) suggesting that the latter, but not the former, is linked to the deltaOR trafficking events observed neuroanatomically. These results demonstrate that in chronic inflammation, the antihyperalgesic effects of deltaOR agonists may be enhanced by morphine pre-treatment. They also reveal a dichotomy between mechanisms underlying antihyperalgesic and antinociceptive effects of deltaOR agonists.
Morphine, a mu-opioid receptor agonist, is a commonly prescribed treatment for pain. Although highly efficacious, morphine has many unwanted side effects including disruption of sleep and obtundation of wakefulness. One mechanism by which morphine alters sleep and wakefulness may be by modulating GABAergic signaling in brain regions regulating arousal, including the pontine reticular nucleus, oral part (PnO). This study used in vivo microdialysis in unanesthetized Sprague-Dawley rat to test the hypothesis that mu-opioid receptors modulate PnO GABA levels. Validation of the high performance liquid chromatographic technique used to quantify GABA was obtained by dialyzing the PnO (n=4 rats) with the GABA reuptake inhibitor nipecotic acid (500 microM). Nipecotic acid caused a 185+/-20% increase in PnO GABA levels, confirming chromatographic detection of GABA and demonstrating the existence of functional GABA transporters in rat PnO. Morphine caused a concentration-dependent decrease in PnO GABA levels (n=25 rats). Coadministration of morphine (100 microM) with naloxone (1 microM), a mu-opioid receptor antagonist, blocked the morphine-induced decrease in PnO GABA levels (n=5 rats). These results show for the first time that mu-opioid receptors in rat PnO modulate GABA levels. A second group of rats (n=6) was used to test the hypothesis that systemically administered morphine also decreases PnO GABA levels. I.v. morphine caused a significant (P&lt;0.05) decrease (19%) in PnO GABA levels relative to control i.v. infusions of saline. Finally, microinjections followed by 2 h recordings of electroencephalogram and electromyogram tested the hypothesis that PnO morphine administration disrupts sleep (n=8 rats). Morphine significantly (P&lt;0.05) increased the percent of time spent in wakefulness (65%) and significantly (P&lt;0.05) decreased the percent of rapid eye movement (REM) sleep (-53%) and non-REM sleep (-69%). The neurochemical and behavioral data suggest that morphine may disrupt sleep, at least in part, by decreasing GABAergic transmission in the PnO.
Our laboratory has previously characterized age-dependent changes in nociception upon acute morphine withdrawal. This study characterizes changes in mechanical and thermal nociception following acute, intermittent, or continuous morphine administration in infant (postnatal days 5-8) and young (postnatal days 19-21) rats. Morphine was given as a single acute administration (AM), intermittently twice a day for 3 days (IM), or continuously for 72 h via pump (CM). AM did not produce long-term changes in mechanical or thermal nociception in either infant or young rats. CM produced changes in mechanical nociception that included the development of tolerance, opioid-induced mechanical allodynia and withdrawal-associated mechanical allodynia in young rats, but only tolerance and a prolonged withdrawal-associated mechanical allodynia in infant rats. IM produced withdrawal-associated mechanical allodynia in both infant and young rats. Measuring paw withdrawal responses to thermal stimuli, infant and young rats showed tolerance without opioid-induced thermal hyperalgesia or withdrawal-associated thermal hyperalgesia following CM. In contrast to CM, withdrawal-associated thermal hyperalgesia was seen in both ages following IM. In conclusion, CM versus IM differentially modified mechanical and thermal nociception, suggesting that opioid-dependent thermal hyperalgesia and mechanical allodynia can be dissociated from each other in infant and young rats. Furthermore, tolerance, opioid-induced hypersensitivity, and withdrawal-associated hypersensitivity are age-specific and may be mediated by distinct mechanisms.
Recent evidence suggests that mu opioid receptors (MOR) are key regulators of hippocampal structure and function. For example, exogenous MOR agonists morphine and heroin negatively impact hippocampal function and decrease adult hippocampal neurogenesis. Here we explored the role of MOR in the birth and survival of hippocampal progenitor cells by examining adult neurogenesis in mice that lack MOR. Adult male mice lacking exon 1 of MOR were injected with the S phase marker bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) and killed either 2 hours or 4 weeks later to evaluate proliferating and surviving BrdU-immunoreactive (IR) cells, respectively, in the adult hippocampal granule cell layer. Wild-type (WT), heterozygote, and homozygote mice did not differ in the number of BrdU-IR cells at a proliferation time point. However, 4 weeks after BrdU injection, heterozygote and homozygote mice had 57% and 54% more surviving BrdU-IR cells in the hippocampal granule cell layer as compared with WT mice. A decrease in apoptosis in the heterozygote and homozygote mice did not account for the difference in number of surviving BrdU-IR cells since there were no alterations in number of pyknotic, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL)-positive, or activated caspase 3-IR cells compared with WT. In concordance with the increased numbers of granule cells maturing into neurons, heterozygote and homozygote mice had larger hippocampal granule cell layers and increased numbers of granule cells. These findings indicate that MOR may play a role in regulating progenitor cell survival and more generally encourage further exploration of how MOR activation can influence hippocampal structure and function.
In this study, we have used 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats to examine changes in striatal junD and fosB/deltafosB expression induced by acute and chronic treatment with L-DOPA (5 and 15 days). Changes at the protein levels were studied using Western immunoblotting while mRNA changes were compared using in situ hybridization histochemistry. We observed a significant increase in the level of deltaFosB proteins after chronic treatment with L-DOPA, an effect that was not observed for JunD proteins. In addition, the upregulation of deltaFosB was already present after an acute treatment but increased upon chronic treatment. By contrast, junD and deltafosB mRNA were both upregulated significantly above control levels after an acute injection of L-DOPA. In conclusion, this study suggests a differential expression pattern of junD and deltafosB in a rat model of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia. The upregulation of deltaFosB protein, but not JunD, is likely to reflect an increased stability of the deltaFosB proteins without ongoing enhanced transcription of the encoding genes.
Using a multi-electrode recording technique, the present study aimed to elucidate the role of broadly-tuned taste-sensitive neurons in the rat gustatory cortex in discriminating between salt and acid. A majority of taste-sensitive neurons (94/119 neurons; 78%) were classified as NaCl (N)-, HCl (H)- or NaCl and HCl (NH)-best neurons. Of 63 neuron pairs (94 neurons), 31 showed significant peaks and/or troughs in their cross-correlograms (CCs) during taste stimulation periods. During NaCl stimulation, the incidence of significant correlation and the mean frequency of correlated discharges (FC) in the N/N and NH/NH pairs were higher than those in the other best-taste pairs. In contrast, during HCl stimulation both indices in the N/N or H/H pairs were very low, while those in the NH/NH pairs were high. These results suggest that (1) correlated activities between N-best neurons and those between NH-best neurons play a significant role in taste quality coding of salt, and that (2) correlated activities between NH-best neurons may be important for sour taste coding as well. Peak formation in CCs tended to be more frequent in the homo-types (N/N, H/H and NH/NH pairs) than in the hetero-types (N/NH, N/H and H/NH pairs). In contrast, troughs were observed mostly in the hetero-types. Inhibitory interaction in hetero-type pairs together with coactivation in homo-type pairs may enhance taste discrimination by taste-sensitive neuron populations.
Blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) pharmacological magnetic resonance imaging (phMRI) affords the non-invasive visualization of brain activity resulting from the administration of pharmacological compounds. Once the compound-responsive cells are lost, no change in activity is expected to occur. This principle therefore allows the assessment of neuronal loss or lack of signal transmission. These investigations can provide evidence of pathology in the absence of significant tissue loss and can be highly specific to determine which type of cell has been lost. Conversely, transplantation of cells replacing the lost neurons should restore normal signal transmission. We here demonstrate the application of phMRI to differentiate between rats with 3-nitroproprionic acid (3-NPA)-induced striatal lesions and 3-NPA-lesioned animals with neural stem cell transplants or controls. 3-NPA-induced lesions mainly involve striatal projection neurons that are responsive to dopamine agonists. The D2-agonist bromocriptine acts on these projection cells and loss of these through 3-NPA administration resulted in a significant decrease of locomotor activity and a substantial attenuation of the BOLD-response in the striatum. In contrast, lesioned animals that were grafted with neural stem cells exhibited an activity pattern akin to controls. Hence, grafting of neural stem cells exerts a functionally significant effect on striatal signal transmission that could underpin behavioral recovery.
We constantly encounter different ground terrain in our environment that we must safely traverse. The visual system is unique, as it is the only sensory system that can provide accurate and precise information about the environment at a distance through a series of fixations directed to salient objects and/or surfaces. However, how the nervous system utilizes visual information regarding complex ground terrain to guide safe foot placement is not known. We had individuals walk across a walkway with varying ground terrain while gaze fixations were monitored. Several findings emerged. First, gaze fixations were highly task-relevant in that they were predominantly made to areas eventually stepped on and their patterns tended to depend on the task instructions. Second, fixations were frequently directed to a transition region between different surfaces in addition to fixations directed to an actual surface. These results suggest that fixations are directed to regions that maximize the amount of information which the nervous system can integrate in order to facilitate safe foot placement. And third, spatial information of the upcoming ground terrain was sampled sequentially in small sections and continuously updated as the individual traversed the challenging ground terrain. This is suggestive of on-line control and may be beneficial to ensure one is able to adapt to stability concerns, unexpected changes in terrain, or sudden changes in the path taken.
Developmental exposure to oxytocin (OT) or oxytocin antagonists (OTAs) has been shown to cause long-lasting and often sexually dimorphic effects on social behaviors in prairie voles (Microtus ochrogaster). Because regulation of social behavior in monogamous mammals involves central receptors for OT, arginine vasopressin (AVP), and dopamine, we examined the hypothesis that the long-lasting, developmental effects of exposure to neonatal OT or OTA might reflect changes in the expression of receptors for these peptides. On postnatal day 1, prairie voles were injected intraperitoneally with either OT (1 mg/kg), an OTA (0.1 mg/kg), saline vehicle, or were handled only. At approximately 60 days of age, vasopressin V1a receptors, OT receptors (OTR) and dopamine D2 receptor binding were quantified using receptor autoradiography in brain tissue taken from males and females. Significant treatment effects on V1a binding were found in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST), cingulate cortex (CgCtx), mediodorsal thalamus (MdThal), medial preoptic area of the hypothalamus (MPOA), and lateral septum (LS). The CgCtx, MPOA, ventral pallidum, and LS also showed significant sex by treatment interactions on V1a binding. No significant treatment or sex differences were observed for D2 receptor binding. No significant treatment difference was observed for OTR receptor binding, and only a marginal sex difference. Changes in the neuropeptide receptor expression, especially the V1a receptor, may help to explain sexually dimorphic changes in behavior that follow comparable neonatal manipulations.
It has been shown that chronic cocaine increases prodynorphin mRNA in the caudate putamen and decreases it in the hypothalamus. In addition, treatment with a kappa-opioid receptor agonist produced the opposite effect on prodynorphin gene expression in these brain regions and also evoked a decrease in the hippocampus. It is already known that kappa-opioid receptor agonists decrease the development of sensitization to some of the behavioral effects of cocaine. The serotonin system has also been shown to regulate dynorphin gene expression and a continuous infusion of fluoxetine induced prodynorphin gene expression in the same pattern as the kappa-opioid agonist (+)(5a,7a,8b)-N-methyl-N-[7-(1-pyrrolidinyl)-1 oxaspiro[4.5]dec-8-yl]-benzeneacetamide (U-69593) in the brain regions investigated. It is interesting to note that treatment with a continuous infusion of cocaine produced different effects on this parameter. To determine whether serotonin plays a role in the regulation of prodynorphin mRNA by kappa-opioid agonists or cocaine, rats were treated with the serotonin depleter parachloroamphetamine (PCA). Beginning 24 h later, rats were treated with the selective kappa-opioid agonist U-69593 for 5 days or continuously with cocaine for 7 days and prodynorphin mRNA was measured. Prodynorphin mRNA was decreased significantly in the hypothalamus, caudate putamen, and hippocampus of rats treated with a single injection of PCA. Subsequent to PCA administration the effects of U-69593 or cocaine on prodynorphin mRNA were differentially affected across brain regions. Prodynorphin gene expression was still increased by U-69593 treatment in the hypothalamus and decreased in the caudate putamen. Cocaine treatment still produced a decrease in this parameter in the hypothalamus and an increase in the caudate putamen. In contrast, in the hippocampus, the decrease in prodynorphin mRNA produced by U-69593 was no longer evident after PCA and cocaine, which previously had no effect, now increased it in the serotonin-depleted group. These findings suggest that serotonin is necessary to maintain normal levels of dynorphin mRNA in all of the investigated brain areas and that the regulation of prodynorphin mRNA expression by chronic treatment with a kappa-opioid receptor agonist or cocaine requires serotonin in the hippocampus, but not in the hypothalamus or caudate putamen.
A growing body of evidence suggests that the proteolytic cleavage of the microtubule-associated protein tau, the main component of neurofibrillary tangles, might play a role in the molecular mechanisms underlying beta-amyloid (Abeta) -induced neurotoxicity in central neurons. In the present study, we analyzed whether sex hormones could prevent such tau cleavage, and hence, protect rat hippocampal neurons against Abeta toxicity. Our results indicated that estrogen and testosterone prevented caspase-3- and calpain-mediated tau cleavage, respectively. Thus, estrogen decreased the levels of caspase-3-cleaved 50-kDa truncated tau, while testosterone prevented the generation of a calpain-cleaved 17-kDa tau fragment. In addition, our results showed that the decrease in the levels of these tau proteolytic forms was accompanied by an increased cell survival in Abeta-treated neurons. Furthermore, our findings indicated that testosterone was more effective than estrogen in protecting hippocampal neurons against Abeta-induced cell death. Collectively, our data suggest that preventing the decline of estrogen and testosterone associated with normal aging might reduce the susceptibility of central neurons to Abeta-induced toxicity.
The mechanisms of mGluR-LTD were studied in the dentate gyrus in vitro. The most effective protocol for inducing mGluR-LTD in 6-8 week animals was brief high frequency stimulation (HFS) applied in the presence of the NMDAR antagonist AP5. Evidence for HFS inducing LTD via activation of perisynaptically located mGluRs was established, as an inhibitor of glutamate transporter potentiated HFS-LTD. HFS-LTD was mainly mediated by activation of mGluR5, although a partial involvement of mGluR1 was found. (RS)-3,5-Dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG) also induced LTD, but in an age dependent manner, being large in 2 week animals but absent in 6-8 week animals. DHPG-LTD in the dentate gyrus also had a much slower rise time than that in CA1, and unlike CA1, the expression/maintenance of mGluR-LTD was not inhibited by mGluR antagonists. The use of pharmacological inhibitors showed that the induction of HFS-LTD was partially dependent upon activation of L-type Ca channels, release of Ca from ryanodine receptor-sensitive intracellular Ca stores, and the kinases p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), protein kinase C (PKC), but not c-Jun N-terminal kinase or COX-2. Evidence for the involvement of tumor necrosis factor-receptor 1 (TNF-R1) in the induction of mGluR-LTD was presented in the present study, with both HFS-mGluR-LTD and DHPG-LTD being absent in mutant mice null for TNF-R1.
Physiologically high levels of circulating estradiol enhance the use of place learning and impair the use of response learning to find food on a land maze. These two types of learning are impaired by lesions of distinct neuronal structures, i.e. the hippocampus and striatum, respectively. Moreover, it has been shown in male rats that compromising hippocampal function can promote the use of response learning, while compromising striatal function can promote place learning. These findings suggest an ongoing competition between the hippocampus and striatum during cognition, such that intact functioning of one structure somehow obstructs the relative participation of the other. The goal of this study was to determine if estrogen's opposing effects on place and response learning in female rats are due to direct actions, either independent or interacting, at the hippocampus and striatum. We infused 0.5 microM 17beta-estradiol 3-sulfate sodium or vehicle bilaterally into the dorsal hippocampus or dorsolateral striatum of ovariectomized young adult female rats, 48, 24 and 2 h before training. Rats were tested on one of three appetitive tasks in a Y-maze: place learning, response learning, or response learning with reduced visual cues (cue-poor condition). Intrahippocampal estradiol infusions enhanced place learning, reversing a cannula-induced impairment, whereas intrastriatal infusions had no effects on place learning. Estradiol infusions into neither structure significantly affected response learning when extramaze cues were visible. However, in the response task, cue-poor condition, intrastriatal but not intrahippocampal infusions impaired learning. These data demonstrate that estrogen modulates place and response learning at the hippocampus and striatum respectively, most likely through independent actions at these two structures.
Translocation of apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF) from the mitochondria to the nucleus can play a major role in neuronal death elicited by oxidant stress. The time course of nuclear translocation of AIF after experimental stroke may vary with the severity of injury and may be accelerated by oxidant stress associated with reperfusion and nitric oxide (NO) production. Western immunoblots of AIF on nuclear fractions of ischemic hemisphere of male mice showed no significant increase with 1 h of middle cerebral artery occlusion and no reperfusion, whereas increases were detectable after 6 and 24 h of permanent ischemia. However, as little as 20 min of reperfusion after 1 h of middle cerebral artery occlusion resulted in an increase in nuclear AIF coincident with an increase in poly(ADP-ribose) polymer (PAR) formation. Further nuclear AIF accumulation was seen at 6 and 24 h of reperfusion. In contrast, 20 min of reperfusion after 2 h of occlusion did not increase nuclear AIF. In this case, nuclear AIF became detectable at 6 and 24 h of reperfusion. With brief occlusion of 30 min duration, nuclear AIF remained undetectable at both 20 min and 6 h and became evident only after 24 h of reperfusion. Inhibition of neuronal NO synthase attenuated formation of PAR and nuclear AIF accumulation. Gene deletion of neuronal NO synthase also attenuated nuclear AIF accumulation. Therefore, reperfusion accelerates AIF translocation to the nucleus when focal ischemia is of moderate duration (1 h), but is markedly delayed after brief ischemia (30 min). Nuclear translocation of AIF eventually occurs with prolonged focal ischemia with or without reperfusion. Neuronally-derived NO is a major factor contributing to nuclear AIF accumulation after stroke.
The amygdala, which exerts a regulatory influence on the stress response, is itself affected by stress. It has been reported that the serine protease tissue-plasminogen activator (tPA), a key mediator of spine plasticity, is required for stress-induced facilitation of anxiety-like behavior. Importantly, tPA is also involved in stress-induced activation of molecular signals that have the potential to contribute to neuronal remodeling in the medial amygdala (MeA). However, little is known about the precise nature of, and specific role played by tPA in, stress-induced structural plasticity in the MeA. Hence, we compared the impact of chronic restraint stress on spine density of medium spiny stellate neurons in MeA in wild-type mice with mice in which the tPA gene is disrupted (tPA-/-). In wild-type mice, chronic stress caused significant reduction in MeA spine density, which was in contrast to enhanced spine density in the neighboring basolateral amygdala (BLA). Strikingly, tPA-/- mice exhibited significant attenuation of stress-induced spine retraction in the MeA, but BLA spinogenesis was not affected. Therefore, tPA-dependence of stress-induced modulation in spine density was restricted to the MeA. Further, MeA neurons in tPA-/- mice, even when challenged with repeated stress, were able to maintain levels of spine density that were comparable to that of wild-type mice without stress. Our findings provide novel evidence for a permissive role for tPA in amygdalar spine plasticity elicited by behavioral stress.
Complex behaviors such as those associated with reward to unconditioned positive reinforcers are polygenic processes. In studies using genetically modified mice specific for the endogenous opioid systems an observed phenotype in a complex behavior is likely to be dependent on interacting genes which, in inbred mouse lines, influence that phenotype. To address this issue we examined operant responding for palatable food reinforcers in mice lacking the expression of beta-endorphin, enkephalin or both peptides congenic to two different genetic backgrounds; C57BL/6J and DBA/2J. These two inbred strains were chosen because their endogenous opioid states differ and they respond differently to exogenous opioids in many behavioral assays. We found that wildtype and mutant C57BL/6J mice acquired operant responding for food reinforcers faster than DBA/2J mice, regardless of their opioid genotype. Although wildtype DBA/2J mice had a significant deficit in acquisition of bar-pressing behavior to reach a pre-established performance criterion, no subsequent deficit was observed under two different schedules of reinforcement. Additionally, we found that mice lacking enkephalin had decreased motivation to bar press for palatable food reinforcers under a progressive ratio regardless of sex or background strain. In contrast, the only subset of beta-endorphin-deficient mice that had decreased motivation to bar press under a progressive ratio was males on the C57BL/6J background. Of the two classical endogenous opioid peptides with preferential activation of the mu opioid receptor, the knockout models would suggest that enkephalins play a more consistent role than beta-endorphin in mediating the motivation for food reward when tested under a progressive ratio.
The effects of two aminoglycoside antibiotics on cultured astrocyte organelles were investigated in rat, sheep, and human cultured astrocytes using transmission electron microscopy. Marked changes in mitochondrial shapes were observed in cultured or subcultured astrocytes obtained from three species, including humans. As well, new types of organelles were observed: (i) numerous concentric membranes forming vesicles, which were termed multilamellar vesicles; and (ii) many vesicles gathering into membranous structures, which were termed multivesicular myeloid bodies. The number of abnormalities increased proportionally with increasing concentrations of the two aminoglycosides (streptomycin and gentamicin). The incorporation of peroxidase or albumin-gold complex in the abnormal vesicles showed that the endolysosomal system was involved in the formation of these vesicles. Our results show that: abnormal organelles are present in cultured astrocytes; these abnormalities are enhanced by streptomycin and gentamicin; and gentamicin induces more abnormalities than streptomycin. The binding of aminoglycosides to membrane phospholipids may explain the formation of the observed abnormalities in rat, sheep, and human cultured astrocytes.
Acetylcholine receptor (AChR) supramolecular aggregates that have hitherto only been accessible to examination by electron microscopy were imaged with stimulated emission depletion (STED) fluorescence microscopy, providing resolution beyond limits of diffraction of classical wide-field or confocal microscopes. We examined a Chinese hamster ovary cell liner CHO-K1/A5, that stably expresses adult murine AChR. Whereas confocal microscopy displays AChR clusters as diffraction-limited dots of approximately 200 nm diameter, STED microscopy yields nanoclusters with a peak size distribution of approximately 55 nm. Utilizing this resolution, we show that cholesterol depletion by acute (30 min, 37 degrees C) exposure to methyl-beta-cyclodextrin alters the short and long range organization of AChR nanoclusters on the cell surface. In the short range, AChRs form larger nanoclusters, possibly related to the alteration of cholesterol-dependent protein-protein associations. Ripley's K-test on STED images reveals changes in nanocluster distribution on larger scales (0.5-3.5 microm), which possibly are related to the abolition of cytoskeletal physical barriers preventing the lateral diffusion of AChR nanoclusters.
Compulsive drug abuse has been conceptualized as a behavioral state where behavioral stimuli override normal decision making. Clinical studies of methamphetamine users have detailed decision making changes and imaging studies have found altered metabolism and activation in the parietal cortex. To examine the molecular effects of amphetamine (AMPH) on the parietal cortex, gene expression responses to amphetamine challenge (7.5 mg/kg) were examined in the parietal cortex of rats pretreated for nine days with either saline, non-neurotoxic amphetamine, or neurotoxic AMPH dosing regimens. The neurotoxic AMPH exposure [three doses of 7.5 mg/kg/day AMPH (6 h between doses), for nine days] produced histological signs of neurotoxicity in the parietal cortex while a non-neurotoxic dosing regimen (2.0 mg/kg/day x 3) did not. Neurotoxic AMPH pretreatment resulted in significantly diminished AMPH challenge-induced mRNA increases of activity-regulated cytoskeletal protein (ARC), nerve growth-factor inducible protein A (NGFI-A), and nerve growth-factor inducible protein B (NGFI-B) in the parietal cortex while neither saline pretreatment nor non-neurotoxic AMPH pretreatment did. This effect was specific to these genes as tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA), neuropeptide Y (NPY) and c-jun expression in response to AMPH challenge was unaltered or enhanced by amphetamine pretreatments. In the striatum, there were no differences between saline, neurotoxic AMPH, and non-neurotoxic AMPH pretreatments on ARC, NGFI-A or NGFI-B expression elicited by the AMPH challenge. These data indicate that the responsiveness of synaptic plasticity-related genes is sensitive to disruption specifically in the parietal cortex by threshold neurotoxic AMPH exposures.
Antidepressants protect against hippocampal volume loss in humans and reverse stress-induced atrophic changes in animals thus supporting the hypothesis that the pathophysiology of stress-related disorders such as depression involves reductions in neuronal connectivity and this effect is reversible by antidepressant treatment. However, it is unclear which brain areas demonstrate such alterations in plasticity in response to antidepressant treatment. The aim of the present study was to examine the effect of antidepressant treatment on the expression of three plasticity-associated marker proteins, the polysialylated form of nerve cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM), phosphorylated cyclic-AMP response element binding protein (pCREB) and growth-associated protein 43 (GAP-43), in the rat brain. To this end, rats were treated either acutely (60 min) or chronically (21 days) with imipramine (30 and 15 mg/kg, respectively) and the expression of PSA-NCAM, pCREB, and GAP-43 was assessed using immunohistochemistry. Initial mapping revealed that chronic imipramine treatment increased expression of these plasticity-associated proteins in the hippocampus, medial prefrontal cortex and piriform cortex but not in the other brain regions examined. Since PSA-NCAM and pCREB are expressed in recently-generated neurons in the dentate gyrus, it is likely that chronic imipramine treatment increased their expression in the hippocampus at least partially by increasing neurogenesis. In contrast, since chronic imipramine treatment is not associated with neurogenesis in the medial prefrontal cortex, increased expression of PSA-NCAM and pCREB in the prelimbic cortex implicates changes in synaptic connectivity in this brain region. Acute treatment with imipramine increased the number of pCREB positive nuclei in the hippocampus and the prefrontal cortex but did not alter expression of GAP-43 or PSA-NCAM in any of the brain regions examined. Taken together, the results of the present study suggest that antidepressant treatment increases synaptic plasticity and connectivity in brain regions associated with mood disorders.
The rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) has been proposed as a region playing a major role in the tonic and reflex control of sympathetic vasomotor activity and blood pressure. Pharmacological activation of GABA(A) receptors with muscimol in the RVLM of anesthetized rats results in a large fall in mean arterial pressure (MAP), heart rate (HR) and sympathetic activity. In this study we evaluated the effects of activation of GABA receptors in the RVLM of conscious, freely moving rats. Bilateral microinjections of muscimol into the RVLM of conscious rats produced a large fall in MAP (-38+/-4 mm Hg, n=7) when compared with saline injections (NaCl 0.9%, 7+/-1 mm Hg, n=4). The decrease in MAP evoked by muscimol was accompanied by a significant increase in HR (muscimol 69+/-13 bpm vs. vehicle -33+/-12 bpm, P&lt;0.05), an effect that was completely abolished by beta1 adrenergic receptor blockade. Conversely, bilateral microinjections of GABA(B) agonist, baclofen, evoked a pressor response, but in this case, the increase was not significantly different from that evoked by vehicle injections. These results 1) indicate that GABA(A) receptors have a powerful influence on the resting activity of RVLM neurons in conscious rats; 2) indicate that a compensatory sympathetic-mediated tachycardia is present after inhibition of RVLM neurons in conscious rats; 3) confirm and extend previous findings showing that RVLM neurons are critical for blood pressure maintenance even in normal non-anesthetized conditions.
With use of a conditioning paradigm, the ability of eight CD-1 mice to distinguish between 15 enantiomeric odor pairs was investigated. The results demonstrate a) that CD-1 mice are capable of discriminating between all odor pairs tested, b) that the enantiomeric odor pairs clearly differed in their degree of discriminability and thus in their perceptual similarity, and c) that pre-training with the rewarded stimuli led to improved initial but not terminal or overall performance. A comparison between the proportion of discriminated enantiomeric odor pairs of the CD-1 mice and those of other species tested in earlier studies on the same discrimination tasks (or on subsets thereof) shows a significant positive correlation between discrimination performance and the number of functional olfactory receptor genes. These findings provide the first evidence of a highly developed ability of CD-1 mice to discriminate between an array of non-pheromonal chiral odorants. Further, they suggest that a species' olfactory discrimination capabilities for these odorants may be correlated with its number of functional olfactory receptor genes. The data presented here may provide useful information for the interpretation of findings from electrophysiological or imaging studies in the mouse and the elucidation of odor structure-activity relationships.
Extracellular recordings were made from output neurons in the dorsal half of the periaqueductal gray matter (dPAG) in urethane-anesthetized female Wistar rats. All the neurons were quiescent. A basal level of firing was therefore induced by continuous iontophoretic application of D,L-homocysteic acid (DLH). In the presence of the GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline methiodide (BIC 0-30 nA) the DLH-induced firing increased further, revealing the presence of ongoing GABAergic inhibitory tone on the recorded neurons. The BIC-induced increase in firing rate was significantly greater in neurons recorded during estrus (Est) and late diestrus (LD) compared with proestrus (Pro) and early diestrus (ED) suggesting that GABAergic tone was lower in Est and LD. I.v. injection of the panicogenic cholecystokinin (CCK)(B) receptor agonist pentagastrin (PG, 40 microg kg(-1)) produced an increase in firing rate in 12/17 (70%) of neurons tested in the dPAG. Iontophoretic application of PG (10-30 nA) also produced a current-related increase in firing rate in 73.6% of the neurons tested. The excitatory response was reduced during application of the selective CCK(B) receptor antagonist beta-[2-([2-(8-azaspiro[4.5]dec-8-ylcarbonyl)-4,6-dimethylphenyl]amino)-2-oxoethyl]-(R)-napthalenepropanoic acid (CR2945) (60 nA, n=6). The PG-evoked increase in firing rate was significantly greater in neurons recorded during Est and LD compared with during Pro and ED. Juxtacellular labeling with neurobiotin in eight neurons revealed multipolar cells 12-44 microm diameter with up to six primary dendrites. In three of eight neurons, a filled axon was present and coursed without branching toward the perimeter of the periaqueductal gray matter (PAG). The estrous cycle-related change in responsiveness to BIC and PG suggests that the panic circuitry in the PAG may become more responsive to panicogenic agents during estrus and late diestrus as a consequence of a decrease in the intrinsic level of inhibitory GABAergic tone. The findings may have implications for understanding the neural processes that underlie the development of premenstrual dysphorias in women.
Our previous microdialysis study demonstrated that both ethanol (EtOH) and acetaldehyde (ACe) decrease in vivo acetylcholine (ACh) release in the medial frontal cortex of freely moving rats. To better understand the mechanisms of EtOH and ACe's effects on the cholinergic system in the brain, choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) expression was examined at 40 and 240 min after a dose of EtOH (1 g/kg) in the rat frontal cortex and hippocampus. The control group was treated with 0.9% saline, and other groups received EtOH or cyanamide (CY, 50 mg/kg, a potent aldehyde dehydrogenase inhibitor) and 60 min later by EtOH intraperitoneally. Reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis revealed that ChAT mRNA levels were decreased by 72.8% and 71.6% in the EtOH and CY+EtOH groups, respectively, at 40 min after EtOH injection compared with saline in the frontal cortex. The hippocampal ChAT levels were reduced by 76.5% and 53.0% in the EtOH and CY+EtOH groups, respectively, at this time. CY+EtOH-induced depletion in ChAT mRNA levels was markedly higher than EtOH in the hippocampus. A similar decrease pattern of ChAT was observed at protein levels as determined by Western blot, but the reduced ChAT levels were significantly higher in the CY+EtOH group as compared with the EtOH group both in the frontal cortex and hippocampus. At 240 min after EtOH injection, the EtOH group had no effect on ChAT at mRNA levels, as compared with saline, whereas CY+EtOH group induced a significant decrease in ChAT mRNA expression to 62.0% and 65.5% in the frontal cortex and hippocampus, respectively. These data were consistent with the results of the Western blot analysis. AChE expression at mRNA levels was not changed at either 40 or 240 min after EtOH dosing in either of these groups in the frontal cortex and hippocampus. Within 40 and 240 min, a statistically significant difference in ChAT expression at mRNA and protein levels was found in the EtOH and CY+EtOH groups both in the frontal cortex and hippocampus. The data obtained from this study demonstrate that EtOH and ACe concentrations decreased ChAT expression at 40 and 240 min after EtOH administration in the frontal cortex and hippocampus, and this result suggests that reduced ChAT expression is strongly related to a decrease in ACh release in the rat brain.
Entrainment by daily restricted feeding schedules (RFS) produces food anticipatory activity (FAA) which involves motivational processes which may be regulated by corticolimbic structures and the nucleus accumbens. The present study aimed first to determine whether corticolimbic structures participate in the expression of FAA, therefore c-Fos immunoreactivity (Fos-IR) was employed as marker of neuronal activity. The second goal was to characterize diurnal rhythms of the clock protein protein Per1 (PER1) in corticolimbic structures and to determine the influence of RFS on the diurnal temporal pattern. Rats were maintained under RFS with food access for 2 h daily, a control group was fed ad libitum. Food entrainment produced a pattern of increased Fos-IR during FAA and after mealtime in the two sub-regions of the nucleus accumbens (ACC), in the basolateral and central amygdala, in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST), in the lateral septum (LS), in the prefrontal cortex (PFC), and in the paraventricular thalamic nucleus (PVT). No increased Fos-IR was observed in the hippocampus. Under ad libitum conditions all structures studied showed daily oscillations of PER1, excluding both amygdalar nuclei and the PFC. RFS shifted and set the daily peaks at zeitgeber time (ZT) 12 for both sub-regions in the accumbens, the hippocampus, lateral septum and PFC. RFS enhanced the amplitude at ZT12 of the BNST and shifted the peak of the PVT to ZT6. No changes were observed in the amygdalar nuclei. Present data indicate that cellular activation of corticolimbic structures is associated with behavioral events related to food anticipatory activity and that mealtime is a relevant signal that shifts daily oscillations of PER1 in corticolimbic structures. Data suggest a relevant role of corticolimbic structures as oscillators for FAA.
EGb761, a standardized extract of Ginkgo biloba, has neuroprotective properties in animal models of ischemia, an activity that is partially attributed to its constituent, bilobalide. EGb761 has also been reported to inhibit edema formation induced by toxins such as triethyltin. The goal of this study was to test the activity of pure bilobalide to prevent edema formation in models of ischemia. Oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) in rat hippocampal slices served as a model of in vitro-ischemia. OGD caused cellular edema formation as indicated by an increase of slice water contents in 30 min. Bilobalide (1-10 microM) reduced slice water contents in ischemic slices in a concentration-dependent manner. As a model of in vivo-ischemia, we performed middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) in mice. Permanent MCAO caused cell death and swelling of the ischemic hemisphere within 24 h. Pretreatment of the mice with bilobalide (10 mg/kg i.p.) reduced infarct area by 43% (as judged by 2,3,5-triphenyl-tetrazolium chloride (TTC) staining) and edema formation by 70% (as judged by hemispheric enlargement). In parallel experiments, pretreatment with bilobalide also reduced forebrain water contents in the ischemic hemisphere by 57%. As an alternative model of brain edema formation, we used water intoxication to increase brain water content; bilobalide, was, however, inactive in this model. We conclude that bilobalide strongly and specifically attenuates edema formation in models of brain ischemia in vitro and in vivo. Bilobalide may be therapeutically effective in brain edema which occurs secondarily to large hemispheric stroke and traumatic brain injury in humans.
Action potentials in cortical neurons show a variable threshold and a sudden rise in membrane potential at initiation. Naundorf et al. fail to explain these features using single- or double-compartment Hodgkin-Huxley-style models, suggesting instead that they could arise from cooperative opening of Na+ channels, although there is no direct biological evidence to support this. Here we show that these so-called unique features are to be expected from Hodgkin-Huxley models if the spatial geometry and spike initiation properties of cortical neurons are taken into account--it is therefore unnecessary to invoke exotic channel-gating properties as an explanation.
Microeconomic theory maintains that purchases are driven by a combination of consumer preference and price. Using event-related fMRI, we investigated how people weigh these factors to make purchasing decisions. Consistent with neuroimaging evidence suggesting that distinct circuits anticipate gain and loss, product preference activated the nucleus accumbens (NAcc), while excessive prices activated the insula and deactivated the mesial prefrontal cortex (MPFC) prior to the purchase decision. Activity from each of these regions independently predicted immediately subsequent purchases above and beyond self-report variables. These findings suggest that activation of distinct neural circuits related to anticipatory affect precedes and supports consumers' purchasing decisions.
The neural circuitry that constrains visual acuity in the CNS has not been experimentally identified. We show here that zebrafish blumenkohl (blu) mutants are impaired in resolving rapid movements and fine spatial detail. The blu gene encodes a vesicular glutamate transporter expressed by retinal ganglion cells. Mutant retinotectal synapses release less glutamate, per vesicle and per terminal, and fatigue more quickly than wild-type in response to high-frequency stimulation. In addition, mutant axons arborize more extensively, thus increasing the number of synaptic terminals and effectively normalizing the combined input to postsynaptic cells in the tectum. This presumably homeostatic response results in larger receptive fields of tectal cells and a degradation of the retinotopic map. As predicted, mutants have a selective deficit in the capture of small prey objects, a behavior dependent on the tectum. Our studies successfully link the disruption of a synaptic protein to complex changes in neural circuitry and behavior.
Under ambient air conditions, NO inhibits NMDAR activity by reacting with the NR2A subunit C399 along with two additional cysteine pairs if their disulfide bonds are reduced to free thiol groups [NR1(C744,C798); NR2(C87,C320)]. Here we demonstrate that relative hypoxia enhances S-nitrosylation of NMDARs by a unique mechanism involving an &quot;NO-reactive oxygen sensor motif&quot; whose determinants include C744 and C798 of the NR1 subunit. Redox reactions involving these two thiol groups sensitize other NMDAR sites to S-nitrosylation and consequent receptor inhibition, while their own nitrosylation has little effect on NMDAR activity. The crystal structure of the ligand-binding domain of NR1 reveals a flexible disulfide bond (C744-C798), which may account for its susceptibility to reduction and subsequent reaction with NO that is observed with biochemical techniques. These thiols may be nitrosylated preferentially during increasing hypoxia or stroke conditions, thus preventing excessive activity associated with cytotoxicity while avoiding blockade of physiologically active NMDARs.
Experience-dependent plasticity during development results in the emergence of highly adapted representations of the external world in the adult brain. Previous studies have convincingly shown that the primary auditory cortex (A1) of the rat possesses a postnatal period of sensory input-driven plasticity but its precise timing (onset, duration, end) has not been defined. In the present study, we examined the effects of pure-tone exposure on the auditory cortex of developing rat pups at different postnatal ages with a high temporal resolution. We found that pure-tone exposure resulted in profound, persistent alterations in sound representations in A1 only if the exposure occurred during a brief period extending from postnatal day 11 (P11) to P13. We also found that postnatal sound exposure in this epoch led to striking alterations in the cortical representation of sound intensity.
Contextual fear memory is attenuated by the re-exposure of mice to the context without aversive stimulus. This phenomenon is called extinction. Here, we report that a potentiator of AMPA receptors, 4-[2-(phenylsulfonylamino)ethylthio]-2,6-difluorophenoxyacetamide (PEPA), potently facilitates extinction learning in mice. C57BL/6J mice were exposed to novel context and stimulated by electrical footshock. After 24 h (extinction training) and 72 h (extinction test), the mice were repeatedly exposed to the context without footshock and the duration of their freezing response was measured. The duration of freezing response in the extinction test was consistently shorter than the value in extinction training. Intraperitoneal injection of PEPA 15 min before extinction training remarkably reduced the duration of freezing responses during the extinction training and test, compared with the vehicle-injected control mice. This action of PEPA on extinction was dose-dependent and inhibited by NBQX (1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-6-nitro-2,3-dioxo-benzo[f]quinoxaline-7-sulfonamide), an AMPA receptor antagonist. PEPA had no effect on acquisition and consolidation of fear memory itself. Electrophysiological studies suggested that PEPA activates the neural network much more potently in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) than in the basolateral amygdala and hippocampal CA1 field. Quantitative PCR studies suggested the pronounced expression of PEPA-preferring AMPA receptor subunits (GluR3 and GluR4) and a splice variant (flop) in the mPFC. An intra-mPFC injection of PEPA facilitated the extinction much more potently than an intra-amygdala injection of PEPA did. These results suggest that PEPA facilitates extinction learning through AMPA receptor activation mainly in the mPFC.
Vasopressin (VP) transcription in the rat suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) in organotypic culture was studied by in situ hybridization histochemistry using an intron-specific VP heteronuclear RNA probe. The circadian peak of VP gene transcription in the SCN in vitro is completely blocked by a 2 h exposure to tetrodotoxin (TTX) in the culture medium, and this TTX inhibition of VP gene transcription is reversed by exposure of the SCN to either forskolin or potassium depolarization. This suggests that an intrinsic, spontaneously active neuronal mechanism in the SCN is responsible for the cAMP- and depolarization-dependent pathways involved in maintaining peak VP gene transcription. In this paper, we evaluate a variety of neurotransmitter candidates, membrane receptors, and signal-transduction cascades that might constitute the mechanisms responsible for the peak of VP gene transcription. We find that vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) and a VPAC2 (VIP receptor subtype 2) receptor-specific agonist, Ro-25-1553, are the most effective ligands tested in evoking a cAMP-mitogen-activated protein kinase signal transduction cascade leading to an increase in VP gene transcription in the SCN. In addition, a second independent pathway involving depolarization activating L-type voltage-gated calcium channels and a Ca-dependent kinase pathway [inhibited by KN62 (1-[N,O-bis(5-isoquinolinesulphonyl)-N-methyl-L-tyrosyl]-4-phenylpiperazine)] rescues VP gene transcription in the presence of TTX. In the absence of TTX, these independent pathways appear to act in a cooperative manner to generate the circadian peak of VP gene transcription in the SCN.
Chronic neural recordings were taken from the midbrain superior colliculus (SC) of echolocating bats while they were engaged in one of two distinct behavioral tasks: virtual target amplitude discrimination (VTAD) and real oscillating target tracking (ROTT). In the VTAD task, bats used a limited range of sonar call features to discriminate the amplitude category of echoes, whereas in the ROTT task, the bat produced dynamically modulated sonar calls to track a moving target. Newly developed methods for chronic recordings in unrestrained, behaving bats reveal two consistent bouts of SC neural activity preceding the onset of sonar vocalizations in both tasks. A short lead bout occurs tightly coupled to vocal onset (VTAD, -5.1 to -2.2 ms range, -3.6 +/- 0.7 ms mean lead time; ROTT, -3.0 to + 0.4 ms range, -1.2 +/- 1.3 ms mean lead time), and this activity may play a role in marking the time of each sonar emission. A long lead bout in SC activity occurs earlier and spreads over a longer interval (VTAD, -40.6 to -8.4 ms range, -22.2 +/- 3.9 ms mean lead time; ROTT, -29.8 to -7.1 ms range, -17.5 +/- 9.1 ms mean lead time) when compared with short lead events. In the goal-directed ROTT task, the timing of long lead event times vary with the bat's sonar call duration. This finding, along with behavioral studies demonstrating that bats adjust sonar call duration as they track targets at changing distance, suggests the bat SC contributes to range-dependent adjustments of sonar call duration.
Two important components of skill learning are the learning process itself (motor acquisition) and the ability to transfer what has been learned to new task variants (motor transfer). Many studies have documented age-related declines in the ability to learn new manual motor skills. In this study, I tested whether the degree of savings at transfer of learning is similarly affected by advancing age. Young and older adults made aiming movements with a joystick to hit targets presented on a computer screen, with real-time feedback display of their movement. They adapted to three different rotations of the feedback display in a sequential fashion, with return to the normal feedback display between each. Adaptation performance was better when it was preceded by other adaptive experiences, regardless of age.
Genetically modified mouse models are a powerful approach to study the relation of a single gene-deletion to processes such as mutagenesis and carcinogenesis. The generation of base excision repair (BER) deficient mouse models has resulted in a re-examination of the cellular defence mechanisms that exist to counteract DNA base damage. This review discusses novel insights into the relation between specific gene-deletions and the organ and cell specificity of visible and molecular phenotypes, including accumulation of base lesions in genomic DNA and carcinogenesis. Although promising models exist, there is still a need for new models. These models should comprise combined deficiencies of DNA glycosylases which initiate the BER pathway, to elaborate on the repair redundancy, as well as conditional models of the intermediate steps of BER.
Abnormally high constitutive activity of protein kinase CK2, levels of which are elevated in a variety of tumours, is suspected to underlie its pathogenic potential. The most widely employed CK2 inhibitor is 4,5,6,7-tetrabromobenzotriazole (TBB), which exhibits a comparable efficacy toward another kinase, DYRK1 a. Here we describe the development of a new class of CK2 inhibitors, conceptually derived from TBB, which have lost their potency toward DYRK1 a. In particular, tetrabromocinnamic acid (TBCA) inhibits CK2 five times more efficiently than TBB (IC50 values 0.11 and 0.56 microM, respectively), without having any comparable effect on DYRK1 a (IC50 24.5 microM) or on a panel of 28 protein kinases. The usefulness of TBCA for cellular studies has been validated by showing that it reduces the viability of Jurkat cells more efficiently than TBB through enhancement of apoptosis. Collectively taken, the reported data support the view that suitably derivatized tetrabromobenzene molecules may provide powerful reagents for dissecting the cellular functions of CK2 and counteracting its pathogenic potentials.
Emotions generally improve memory, and the basolateral amygdala (BLA) is believed to mediate this effect. After emotional arousal, BLA neurons increase their firing rate, facilitating memory consolidation in BLA targets. The enhancing effects of BLA activity extend to various types of memories, including motor learning, which is thought to involve activity-dependent plasticity at corticostriatal synapses. However, the underlying mechanisms are unknown. Here we show that the NMDA-to-AMPA (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid) ratio is nearly twice as high at BLA as compared with cortical synapses onto principal striatal neurons and that activation of BLA inputs greatly facilitates long-term potentiation induction at corticostriatal synapses. This facilitation was NMDA-dependent, but it occurred even when BLA and cortical stimuli were 0.5 s apart during long-term potentiation induction. Overall, these results suggest that BLA activity opens long time windows during which the induction of corticostriatal plasticity is facilitated.
An understanding of the role of TRPV4 in mammalian kidney physiology begins in the nematode C. elegans. Worms are repelled by steep osmotic gradients, an adaptive mechanism presumably conserved to minimize the risk of acute changes in cell volume. Worms with mutated copies of a particular gene, while remaining fully motile, are oblivious to potentially harmful osmotic gradients; this gene was dubbed osm-9 [1,2]. The OSM-9 protein bore a striking similarity to the transient receptor potential channel implicated in visual signal transduction in Drosophila [3]the prototypical member of the now well-recognized TRP superfamily [4]. Several years later, the mammalian orthologue of OSM-9 was identified via homology screening [5,6] and other approaches [7,8]; it eventually became known as TRPV4 [9].
Cellular function, in particular neuronal activity, is the result of an orchestrated interplay between membrane receptors at the cell surface and intracellular signaling proteins. Membrane receptors transduce external signals into cellular responses by activating cytosolic metabolic pathways. Regulation of the spatial and temporal distribution of membrane receptors begins to be recognized as an important mechanism for controlling the magnitude and time course of cellular signaling [1]. For instance, long-term changes in neuronal plasticity are the result of transcriptional and translational regulation of protein biogenesis and trafficking. Similarly, short-term changes in synaptic function can be achieved by altering the levels of key surface proteins involved in synaptic transmission, such as neurotransmitter receptors and transporters [1]. Thus, modulation of receptor function by trafficking and redistribution plays a central role in synaptic plasticity [13]. These processes increase the complexity of the signaling mechanisms in peripheral and central synapses. Protein trafficking studies, carried out in yeast and mammalian cells, have revealed the underlying mechanism by which proteins travel between intracellular compartments and the plasma membrane. Membrane proteins are synthesized in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), and ensuing posttranslational modifications such as glycosylation take place in both the ER and the Golgi apparatus. Appropriately folded and assembled membrane proteins are subsequently sorted out into vesicles for trafficking and delivery to the cell surface by a constitutive or regulated pathway of vesicle exocytosis [4]. The constitutive exocytotic route is primarily used by cells for turnover of both membrane proteins and lipids, thus ensuring the removal of aged or damaged membrane components. In contrast, the regulated secretory pathway is used by specialized cells, such as endocrine cells, neurons, acinar cells of the pancreas, mast cells, insulin-sensitive cells, and many other cell types, as a mechanism of cellular communication. Regulated exocytosis is produced only in response to a stimulus that provokes the mobilization, docking, and fusion of an intracellular pool of vesicles stored near the membrane region where they will fuse and release their components [15]. Mechanistically, both types of exocytosis use a cascade of proteinprotein interactions to ensure the efficient delivery of their vesicle cargo to the membrane [2,5]. At a molecular level, vesicle traffic uses the SNAREs (soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptors), a large family of proteins that are present on all organelles and mediate intracellular vesicle trafficking and secretion (Figure 23.1) [2,5]. The interaction of complementary SNARE proteins found on opposing membranes exemplifies an attractive lock-and-key mechanism, which presumably underlies the remarkable specificity of vesicle docking to target membranes and their consequent fusion [5]. For instance, the interaction of the vesicle membrane SNARE (v-SNARE) synaptobrevin 2, and the corresponding SNAREs in the target membrane (t-SNAREs), syntaxin 1 and SNAP25, results in the formation of a remarkably stable ternary complex that ensures the docking and fusion of vesicles at the active zone upon receiving the stimulus, normally an increase in the intracellular concentration of Ca(2+) ([Ca [2]]i).(+5) Similarly, molecular interactions of synaptobrevin 2 analogues with syntaxin 1 and SNAP25-like target membrane proteins are thought to be essential for vesicle targeting and fusion in all eukaryotes [2]. It is quite well established that a significant increase in [Ca(2+)]i is required for triggering the SNARE-mediated fusion of secretory vesicles, although SNARE-dependent exocytosis of vesicles, in particular recycling vesicles, may occur at resting [Ca(2+)]i by the activation of other signaling pathways [2]. Nonetheless, the rate of vesicle recycling is regulated by changes in the [Ca(2+)]i Vesicle exocytosis is a highly regulated process counterbalanced by endocytosis of membrane components that ensures constant plasma membrane content. Internalization of receptors and transporters is mediated by a general clathrin-dependent pathway that moves endocytosed proteins to the endosome for appropriate sorting into vesicles, either for release or for transport depending on their final destination [3,4]. The endosome also provides a mechanism to maintain the proper composition of release vesicle proteins by adding newly synthesized vesicle proteins, removing aged polypeptides for degradation, and separating nonsecretory vesicle proteins [3]. Recent evidence suggests that synaptic vesicles are most likely formed at the nerve terminal by endocytosis. This novel notion considers that newly synthesized membrane proteins traffic to the nerve terminal in transport packets and become incorporated into synaptic vesicles at the synapse, thus indicating that synaptic vesicle formation relies primarily on an endocytotic pathway [3,4]. This hypothesis is particularly attractive for the regulation of the surface expression of ion channels, neurotransmitter receptors, and transporters presynaptically due to the lack of biosynthetic pools of membrane proteins available in the synapse [4]. Traditionally, the constitutive exocytotic pathway has been associated to the traffic of membrane proteins to the cell surface, while the regulated secretory pathway has been implicated in the activity-dependent release of neurotransmitters, neuropeptides, and hormones. However, in the past decade emerged the notion that the surface expression of membrane proteins, especially ion channels, receptors, and transporters, may be mediated by a regulated release pathway as well [24]. Indeed, cumulative evidence indicates that the function of these plasma membrane proteins can be increased or decreased by accommodating the level of the surface-expressed protein. Indeed, dynamic regulation of the rate of either insertion or retrieval or both of integral membrane proteins in response to stimuli embodies the strategic regulation of their surface expression [3,4]. Examples of receptors and transporters that are modulated by vesicle trafficking are the glucose transporter (GluT4) [6], Aquaporin 2 (AQP2) [7], epithelial sodium channel (ENac) [8], cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) [8], as well as ionotropic ligand-gated receptors such as -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA), N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA), gamma-aminobutyrate (GABAA), and the purinergic receptor P2X4 [9]. In addition, several studies have demonstrated that this signaling pathway is also commonly used by members of the transient receptor potential (TRP) family of ion channels for modulation of their physiological function [10].
Transient receptor potential channels (TRP) are a large family of cationic channels that are permeable to Ca(2+)allowing these channels to participate in a wide range of physiological processes that require Ca(2+) signaling. In recent years, TRP channels have been found to play a role in many processes in the nervous system, such as the transduction of sensory stimulation [1], neuronal cell death [2], proliferation and differentiation of neural progenitor cells [3,4], nerve growth [5], and synaptic transmission [69]. One interesting recent discovery shows that TRPC (canonical) channels are involved in the signal transduction of axon guidance during brain development.
This chapter reviews our knowledge of the three-dimensional structure of TRP channels and how this information relates to channel function and regulation. Sequence analyses have revealed the domain composition of TRP channels. Because no structure has been determined for a complete TRP channel, I will first break down TRP channels into component parts, or building blocks, and then discuss the structural information available for each, using the closest sequence homologues for which structures have been determined. TRP channels are part of the same channel superfamily as the voltage- and ligand-gated potassium channels [1]. Because the highest sequence similarity between these and TRP channels is found in the transmembrane domain, all TRP channels are expected to form tetramershomo- or heterotetramersas functional units, like the voltage- and ligand-gated channels. Biochemical and biophysical analyses have confirmed that several TRP channels are indeed tetrameric (e.g., see reference [2]). The transmembrane domain of each TRP channel subunit is expected to contain six roughly membrane-spanning helical segments, S1 to S6and therefore both the N-and C- terminal extensions are cytosolic. The transmembrane domain can be divided in two building blocks: the sensor, formed by helices S1S4, and the pore, formed by helices S5 and S6. The pore forms a hole that spans the lipid membrane and passes ions and other hydrophilic molecules, to which the lipid membrane is otherwise impermeable. The pore contains a selectivity filter, the smallest constriction of pore, which dictates through its stereochemical and electrostatic properties what kind of molecules are allowed through the pore. The sensor perceives the signal(s) and transmits the information to the gate, the channel component that opens or closes the pore. The cytosolic domains of TRP channels contain regulatory components that can tune the channel opening propensity in a positive or negative fashion. Perhaps some of the most intriguing structural aspects of TRP channels are the diversity of their cytosolic domains. The TRP channel family is divided into seven subfamilies based on sequence similarity and function, and there is little homology in the N- and C-terminal cytosolic regions between subfamilies. Furthermore, while some common proteinprotein interaction motifs can be identified in the cytosolic regions, such as ankyrin repeats, calmodulin-binding sites and PDZ domainbinding sites, other cytosolic segments appear novel by sequence analysis. The following sections highlight the current structural information on the TRP channel building blocks within the transmembrane region and the cytosolic domains.
Screening for homologues of the Drosophila trp (transient receptor potential) gene product has uncovered a large family of membrane proteins of which the closest relatives to the Drosophila protein have been assigned to the canonical or classical subfamily (TRPC). The prominent physiological function of these proteins, as delineated from heterologous expression and knockdown experiments in native cells, appears to be sensing phospholipase C (PLC)derived stimuli and conversion of this input into cellular Ca(2+) signals. Another common feature of TRPC proteins is the ability to form cation-conducting pore structures. Thus, the role of TRPCs in PLC-dependent Ca(2+) signaling has been attributed to the formation of regulated Ca(2+) entry channels. Despite the existence of this unifying principle of TRPC signal transduction, an unforeseen complexity of the roles of TRPC proteins within the cellular Ca(2+) signaling network emerged. The contribution of TRPC proteins to cellular Ca(2+)homeostasis may involve formation of a wide variety of different Ca(2+) entry pathways that contain distinct TRPC homo-or heteromultimeric pore structures, along with a multitude of regulatory proteins and scaffolds. Here, we summarize current knowledge on proteinprotein interactions that are of potential significance for the formation and function of native TRPC channel complexes and highlight recent concepts regarding the role of these interactions for cellular control of plasma membrane cation conductances and cellular Ca(2+) signaling.
The expression of the TRPC2 channel in rodents appears largely restricted to neurons of the vomeronasal organ (VNO) and is detected at lower levels in few other tissues. The characteristics of TRPC2 expression, as well as the availability of the TRPC2 gene as a tool for genetic manipulation, has led to significant advances in understanding the biology of the vomeronasal organ and pheromone detection in rodents and across evolution.
TRPC (canonical transient receptor potential) channels are vertebrate homologues of the Drosophila photoreceptor channel (TRP). Considerable research has been brought to bear on the seven members of this family, especially with regard to their possible roles in calcium entry. Unfortunately, the current literature presents a confusing picture, with different laboratories describing widely differing results and interpretations. It appears that ectopically expressed TRPC channels can be activated as a consequence of phospholipase C activation (by increases in diacylglycerols or by loss of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate), by stimulation of trafficking to the plasma membrane, or by depletion of intracellular Ca(2+) stores. These diverse experimental findings arise because TRPC channels can, under both experimental as well as physiological conditions, be activated in three distinct ways, possibly depending on their subunit composition or signaling complex environment. The TRPCs may be unique among ion channel subunit families in having the ability to participate in the assembly and function of multiple types of physiologically important ion channels.
In signal transduction of metazoan cells, transient receptor potential (TRP) ion channels have been identified to respond to diverse external and internal stimuli, among them osmotic and mechanical stimuli. This chapter summarizes findings on the TRPV subfamily, both its vertebrate and invertebrate members, with a focus on TRPV4. Of the six mammalian TRPV channels, TRPV1, 2, and 4 were demonstrated to function in transduction of osmotic and mechanical stimuli. Invertebrate TRPV channels, five in C. elegans and two in Drosophila, have been shown to play a role in mechanosensation, such as hearing and proprioception in Drosophila and nose touch in C. elegans, and in the response to tonicity in C. elegans. TRPV4 has been found to function in cellular as well as systemic osmotic homeostasis in vertebrates. In a striking example of evolutionary conservation of function, mammalian TRPV4 has been found to rescue mechano- and osmosensory, not olfactory, deficits of the TRPV mutant line osm-9 in C. elegans, despite not more than 25 percent orthology of the respective amino acid sequences.
In the pair of the nematode Caenorhabiditis elegans serotonergic chemosensory neurons ADF, the TRPV channel protein OCR-2 interacts with another TRPV protein, OSM-9, to control the production of the neurotransmitter serotonin. The activity and specificity of OCR-2 in the serotonergic neurons is governed by structural determinants within the channel protein in concert with defined cellular components. The dynamic gating mechanisms, multiple sensory modalities, and functional conservation in diverse organisms make TRPV channels ideal candidates for the long-awaited molecular sensors that underscore the ancient role of the serotonergic system in coupling sensory cues and internal milieu to behavior and physiology.
The perception of pain throughout the body arises when neural signals originating from the terminals of nociceptors are propagated to second-order neurons in the spinal cord or brainstem, whereupon they are transmitted to specific higher order brain areas (Price, 2000). Recent studies have begun to elucidate some of the molecular mechanisms underlying the transduction of noxious stimuli. Many stimuli have been found to activate ion channels present on nociceptor terminals that act as molecular transducers to depolarize these neurons, thereby setting off nociceptive impulses along the pain pathways (Price, 2000; Costigan and Woolf, 2000). Among these ion channels are the members of the transient receptor potential (TRP) family. To date, the most studied member of the TRP family is the TRPV1 receptor. This is because it is the only one activated by capsaicin, the compound in chili pepper responsible for its hot taste; also, inhibiting TRPV1 has been shown to have therapeutic value (DiMarzo et al., 2002; Cortright and Szallasi, 2004). Although we will focus on the presence of these channels in nociceptors, we note that they have been identified in many other cell types and in various cortical and subcortical areas (Toth et al., 2005). The transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) channel is predicted to have six transmembrane domains and a short, pore-forming hydrophobic stretch between the fifth and sixth transmembrane domains (see Figure 5.1A). It is activated not only by the vanilloid capsaicin (Caterina et al., 1997), but also by noxious heat (&gt;43C) and low pH (Caterina et al., 1997; Tominaga et al., 1998), voltage (Gunthorpe et al., 2000; Piper et al., 1999), and various lipids (Julius and Basbaum, 2001; Caterina and Julius, 2001; Clapham, 2003; Cortright and Szallasi, 2004, Szallasi and Blumberg, 1999; Prescott and Julius, 2003; Jung et al., 2004; Bhave et al., 2003). In cells, TRPV1 is inactivated by its binding to PIP2 and is released from this block by PLC-mediated PIP2 hydrolysis (Prescott and Julius, 2003). Since its cloning in 1997, many amino acid regions within the TPRV1 protein have been shown to be involved in specific functions, such as capsaicin, proton, and heat activation; voltage dependence; permeability and ion selectivity; antagonist regions; desensitization; phosphorylation; modulation by lipids; and multimerization. In regard to its subunit composition, functional TRPV1 channels likely exist as homomeric or heteromeric complexes composed of four subunits that assemble to form functional cation-(including calcium) permeable pores (Clapham, 2003; Kedei et al., 2001; Kuzhikanathil et al., 2001). Moreover, like other ion channels, these channels have been shown to be associated with regulatory proteins (see Figure 5.1B and Kim et al., 2006). There are many signaling pathways that become activated (or inhibited) by the activation of TRPV1 (Farkas-Szallasi et al., 1995; Wood et al., 1988). Similar to many other channels, TRPV1 contains multiple phosphorylation sites in its amino acid sequence for protein kinase C (PKC) (Bhave et al., 2003; Dai et al., 2004; Premkumar et al., 2004), protein kinase A (PKA) (Bhave et al., 2002; De Petrocellis et al., 2001; Rathee et al., 2002) and Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII). The presence of multiple phosphorylation sites in TRPV1 implies possible regulatory actions by these kinases (Wood et al., 1988). Discussed later in this chapter are several lines of evidence that show that two types of lipidsendocannabinoids and eicosanoids that are products of lipoxygenase (LOX)activate TRPV1 channels (Zygmunt et al., 1999; Hwang et al., 2000). Because TRPV1 functions as a molecular integrator for multiple types of sensory input, in this chapter we will explore the molecular mechanisms underlying the activation and modulation of this channel.
Membrane ion channels are critical mediators of vascular endothelial and smooth muscle cell function and regulate diverse properties of blood vessels such as arterial tone, angiogenesis, and permeabilty. Although physiological roles for many ion channels and transporters are well established, the functional significance of transient receptor potential (TRP) channels in the vasculature is just beginning to be elucidated. This chapter summarizes the current understanding of these cation channels in vascular function. For a more in-depth overview of TRP channel biology, the reader is directed to several excellent general reviews covering this topic [14]. As shown in Table 26.1, the mammalian TRP superfamily of cation channels contains at least 22 genes grouped into three major subfamilies based on sequence homology: TRPV (vanilloid), TRPC (canonical), and TRPM (melastatin). Three additional subfamilies (the distant TRPs), TRPP (polycystin), TRPML (mucolipin), and TRPA have been proposed, bringing the total number of TRP-related proteins to around 30. Although these channels were initially described in sensory neurons, it is now thought that most cell types express several TRP genes. TRP proteins are expressed as six transmembrane-domain polypeptide subunits, and it is believed that four subunits assemble in the plasma membrane to form functional channels. All TRP channels are cation permeable, and most are not selective for monovalent versus divalent ions. Exceptions include TRPV5 and TRPV6, which display significant specificity for Ca(2+) ions, and TRPM4 and TRPM5, which are highly selective for monovalent cations and impermeant to Ca(2+) TRP channels are activated by a variety of stimuli, including changes in pressure, temperature, osmolarity, and intracellular Ca(2+) Fatty acids and receptor-dependent vasoconstrictor agonists also activate vascular TRP channels. This diversity of ionic conductivity and activating mechanisms is consistent with the possibility that members of the TRP superfamily may contribute to regulation of a variety of physiological systems. Elucidation of functional roles for TRP channels in vascular cells may be hindered by the complex molecular biology of the superfamily. Biophysical properties of TRP channels have been investigated in patch-clamp experiments employing cultured cells expressing cloned TRP subunit genes. Under these conditions, most functional channels assemble from four identical TRP subunits. However, when multiple TRP subunits are coexpressed, assembly of tetramers composed of two or more TRP subunit proteins can form heteromeric channels [5,6] with novel properties [7,8]. Because most cells express multiple TRP subunits, it is likely that heteromeric channels exist in vivo. Furthermore, splice variants of TRP mRNAs in smooth muscle have been reported [9], potentially increasing the number of individual subunits available for coassembly. Because TRP molecular variety could result in an assortment of channels with a wide array of functional properties in native cells, unraveling the physiological consequences of TRP channel diversity presents a major challenge. In the following paragraphs, evidence for the presence and possible functional roles of TRP channels in vascular smooth muscle and endothelial cells are discussed.
TRPP2 (polycystin-2) is a member of the TRP family of nonselective cation channels that is mutated in human autosomal polycystic kidney disease. TRPP2 has been implicated in Ca(2+)-dependent mechanosensitive pathways in a variety of biological functions including cell proliferation, sperm fertilization, mating behavior, and asymmetric gene expression. Although its function as a Ca(2+)-permeable cation channel is well established, its precise role and subcellular localization in the plasma membrane, endoplasmic reticulum (ER), and cilium have remained controversial. The present review summarizes the most pertinent recent evidence regarding the structural and functional properties of TRPP2 channels, focusing on the regulation and physiology of mammalian TRPP2.
Ca(2+)-activated nonselective cation channels were first described in the early 1980s [1,15,31], shortly after the patch-clamp recording technique was developed [5]. Patch-clamp recording, and in particular the excised-patch recording configuration, made it possible to rapidly and reproducibly change the intracellular milieu of cells and therefore to discover intracellular activators and modulators of ion channels. In this context, intracellular Ca(2+) at micromolar concentrations was found to activate ion channels that were equally permeable to Na(+) and K(+) ions, and these ion channels were detected in a variety of cell types. The Ca(2+)-activated nonselective channels found in cultured heart cells were proposed to play a role in modulating the duration of the action potential, whereas those in pancreatic acinar cells were proposed to play a role in exocrine secretion [1,15]. However, without specific pharmacological or genetic tools, a clear attribution of function was difficult. In 2002 this situation changed with the cloning and functional expression of the first Ca(2+)-activated non-selective cation channel, TRPM4 [9]. Following this discovery, a second Ca(2+)-activated cation channel, TRPM5, was characterized [6,12,22,24,32]. Our understanding of the biological significance of these channels, their functional regulation, and their structural properties has since proceeded at a rapid pace.
TRPV4, the fourth member of the vanilloid subfamily of TRP channels, is a calcium-permeable cation channel that is detectable in both sensory and nonsensory cells. It has been shown to be widely expressed, including in kidneys, lungs, hearts, brains, endothelial cells, and dorsal root and trigeminal sensory ganglia. The channel is characterized by multimodal activation properties that implicate it in a broad range of functions from osmoregulation to thermosensing. Although TRPV4 was originally identified as an osmotically activated channel [13], recent evidence demonstrates that the channel can be activated by diverse stimuli including hypoosmotic swelling [13], shear stress [4], nonnoxious temperatures [5,6], acidity [7], phorbol esters (both protein kinase Cactivating and nonactivating phorbol esters) [4,8,9], and downstream metabolites of arachidonic acid (epoxyeicosatrienoic acids) [10,11]. The mechanism(s) underlying TRPV4 activation by these differing modalities remain(s) poorly understood. However, new evidence points to some common pathways of activation by these diverse stimuli that may underlie the apparent broad range of functions associated with the channel.
Actions of growth factors are essential for mammalian cells to proliferate. For example, fibroblasts continue to grow in the presence of growth factors in serum, and the removal of serum attenuates proliferation. Serum-deprived cells eventually leave the cell cycle, fall into the G0 state, and become quiescent. Quiescent cells reenter the cell cycle when exposed to serum and progress toward the S phase. Two classes of growth factors exist in serum: the competence factor and the progression factor [1]. The competence factor activates the quiescent cells, forces them to enter the cell cycle again, and renders them competent to progress through the G1 phase. Then the progression factor acts and brings the competent cells toward the S phase. Hence, it is the progression factor that promotes the cells to progress through the G1 phase to the S phase. A major competence factor in serum is platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), while a major progression factor in serum is insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) [2]. The competence factor exerts its action by acting transiently, whereas the progression factor should act continuously: when the progression factor is removed during the G1 phase, the cell-cycle progression is blocked immediately. When the progression factor is restored within three hours, cells again progress to the S phase upon readdition of the factor. In contrast, when cells are deprived of the factor for more than three hours, they eventually return to the quiescent state [3]. An interesting aspect of the action of the progression factor is that extracellular calcium is absolutely necessary to promote cell-cycle progression [3]. When extracellular calcium concentration is reduced to less than 0.3 mM, IGF-I is not able to exert its action as a progression factor [3]. An inorganic calcium channel blockerfor example, cobalt or nickelalso blocks the action of IGF-I on cell-cycle progression. Interestingly, when calcium entry is blocked for more than three hours during the G1 phase, cells return to the quiescent state even in the presence of IGF-I. Attenuation of calcium entry is equivalent to the removal of the growth factor. These observations suggest that IGF-I stimulates calcium entry, which is the prerequisite for cell-cycle progression. In accordance with this notion, IGF-I increases the calcium influx rate in competent fibroblasts, and this effect lasts as long as IGF-I is present [4]. It is well known that the IGF-I receptor resembles the insulin receptor and has an intrinsic tyrosine kinase activity. Binding of IGF-I to the receptor leads to phosphorylation of many substrates including insulin receptor substrates (IRSs). Phosphorylated IRSs act as docking proteins and eventually activate the Ras and phosphatidylinositol (PI) 3-kinase pathways [5]. In addition to the activation of the tyrosine phosphorylation cascade, the IGF-I receptor also continuously activates the calcium entry pathway. Tyrosine phosphorylation of IRSs and subsequent activation of the Ras and PI 3-kinase pathway are not affected by the removal of extracellular calcium or an addition of cobalt or nickel. In this regard, activation of PI 3-kinase and the Ras pathway is independent of the calcium influx pathway. Transfection of the dominant negative Ras does not affect the IGF-induced calcium entry, whereas inhibitors of PI 3-kinase inhibit calcium entry.
In Drosophila, chordotonal sensory organs mediate hearing and proprioception (the bodys awareness of motion and spatial orientation). However, little is known about the mechanisms by which these organs convert mechanical force into the two aforementioned senses. Sensory cilia on the chordotonal neurons are mechanosensitive organelles that carry out mechanical transduction. Recently, various molecular components required for cilia formation and function have been identified. Moreover, two subunits of the Drosophila TRPV (vanilloid receptorrelated transient receptor potential) family of ion channels were localized to the sensory cilia of the chordotonal neurons. Current evidence suggests that Drosophila TRPV channels form a mechanotransducer complex that converts mechanical force into a neuronal electrical signal.
Epithelial layers, such as those lining the airways or the gut, are normally involved in a barrier function as well as in transporting ions and nutrients. Both activities require the polarized distribution of proteins, particularly transport proteins (e.g., ion channels), in luminal and basolateral membranes. Most of the participating transport proteins have already been identified, and newcomers are received with expectation. Transient receptor potential (TRP) channels are good examples of novel cation transport proteins whose relevance in epithelial physiology is just starting to emerge. In this chapter we focus on the role of the TRPV4 channel in ciliated epithelia.
The endothelium is a highly specialized multifunctional cell monolayer between blood and tissue. It regulates a variety of vascular functions such as the passage of macromolecules and oxygen supply to organs and tissues, of immune responses, of angiogenesis, and of vascular remodeling. An additional and overall important role of the arterial endothelium is the control of the contractile state of the vascular smooth muscle and thus systemic blood pressure by the release of vasoactive factors. Moreover, endothelial dysfunction contributes to several cardiovascular pathologies such as arteriosclerosis, restenosis disease, vasculitis, or hypertension. The crucial role of the endothelium in the control of vascular tone was first demonstrated by Furchgott and Zawadzki in 1980 [1]. In this pioneer work, they demonstrated that following stimulation with acetylcholine, the endothelium releases a short-lived factor that relaxes the vascular smooth muscle. This factor was later identified as nitric oxide. In addition to humoral stimulation, the endothelium also controls vasodilatation in response to increased hemodynamic forces (i.e., increased shear stress exerted by streaming blood) [2]. This is an important mechanism by which the endothelium controls adequate organ perfusion and protects vessel walls against mechanical damage.
Changes of the extracellular osmolarity result in swelling or shrinkage of cells by increases or decreases in intracellular water along the ionic concentration gradient, thereby changing cell volume. For the viability of the cells, fast adaptation to the extracellular tonicity is essential and, therefore, a variety of cellular mechanisms protects cells from osmotic stress. By modulation of ion channels and transporters, cells modulate their intracellular ion concentrations in order to adapt to environmental conditions and facilitate cellular functions [1, 2]. The change in cell volume is accompanied by reorganization of the cytoskeleton, involving the structure-forming proteins as well as proteins involved in the regulation of cell architecture. Despite the variety of systems described to be involved in volume regulation like potassium and chloride channels, osmolytes, and others, the connections between the different systems are as unclear as the proteins sensing changes in tonicity and subsequent signaling cascades. We recently characterized two different TRP-homologous cation channels, TRPV4 and TRPM3, as proteins mediating calcium entry in cells upon extracellular application of hypotonic solutions [3, 4]. Proteins of the TRP family as integral membrane proteins form pores in the lipid bilayer of the plasma membrane, regulating ion fluxes across the membrane. Today the TRP superfamily is a superfamily of proteins subdivided into at least seven different subfamilies. High sequence similarity in the region of the pore-forming domains is the common feature of the classic (TRPC), melastatin-like (TRPM), and vanilloid-like (TRPV) subfamilies functional properties, and proposed topology is the common theme of all TRP channels [57]. The cDNAs of two orphan proteins, named TRPV4 and TRPM3 according to sequence similarity and order of appearance, were cloned by their sequence similarity to Drosophila TRP. The proteins transiently expressed in HEK293 cells could be characterized as nonselective cation channels mediating calcium entry upon extracellular application of hypoosmolar solutions. This chapter summarizes the known data for TRPV4 and TRPM3.
TRPA1, initially called P120 and ANKTM1, was originally described as a down-regulated protein in mesenchymal tumor cells and was detected in cultured fibroblasts but lost upon oncogenic transformation, although no expression in healthy tissues was described (Schenker and Trueb, 1998; Jaquemar et al., 1999). With in situ hibridization, we found mouse TRPA1 mRNA absent from most major organs (brain, heart, liver, kidneys, skeletal muscles, lungs, spleen, and testes, as well as whisker pad skin and superior cervical ganglia), but present in the inner ear and in certain peripheral sensory ganglia: dorsal root (DRG), trigeminal (TG), and nodose (Nagata et al., 2005). This very restricted pattern of expression suggests specific roles unique to sensory function. Molecularly, TRPA1 has six membrane-spanning domains and a presumed pore-forming domain characteristic of all TRPs and many other ion channels. Its N- and C-terminal segments are predicted to be cytoplasmic. In addition, a distinguishing feature of TRPA1 is a very long N-terminus with up to 17 predicted ankyrin (ANK) repeats (Figure 12.1). Many similar repeats are present in the protein ankyrin, and 29 of them are present in TRPN1, a mechanosensory channel protein of flies, worms, and fish that has not been found in mammals (Walker et al., 2000; Sidi et al., 2003; Li et al., 2006). ANK repeats may serve at least two functions: (1) to interact with other proteins, particularly those of the cytoskeleton, and (2) to provide elasticity when in tandem, forming a molecular spring (cited as V. Bennet, personal communication, in Corey et al., 2004; Howard and Bechstedt, 2004; Sotomayor et al., 2005; Lee et al., 2006). Because many models of mechanically gated channels postulate linkage to a force-transducing structure like the cytoskeleton or an elastic gating spring (Garca-Aoveros and Corey, 1997; Gillespie and Walker, 2001), channels like TRPN1 and TRPA1 may be well endowed for the mechanical transduction that characterizes the auditory and vestibular organs as well as the somatosensory and autonomic ganglia that express it. Based on the hypothesis that the transduction channel of hair cells and somatosensory neurons could be a TRP channel (Duggan et al., 2000), we screened (RT-PCR and in situ hybridization) TRP genes for expression in the inner ear and somatosensory ganglia. We found several TRPs expressed in ganglia and two whose mRNA is expressed in the organ of Corti, the place in the cochlea where the sensory cells reside (unpublished results and Corey et al., 2004). In addition, a third TRP channel protein (MCOLN3, or TRPML3) has also been detected in hair cells (Di Palma et al., 2002). In this chapter we discuss TRPA1, which is expressed both in the inner ear and peripheral ganglia.
Pain is a major health problem. Despite the importance of adequate pain modulation in relieving patients suffering, the available pharmacological agents for treating pain are limited. Existing pain-treating drugs that predominantly target the cyclooxygenase and opioid pathways are often inadequate in providing relief from pain and can have undesirable side effects. A first step in improving the armamentarium of physicians in treating pain is identifying new molecular targets for analgesic drugs. In this chapter, I describe a system for using Drosophila as a platform for discovering genes required for the function of insect nociceptive sensory neurons [1]. Forward genetics using Drosophila has resulted in important mechanistic insights into a variety of nervous system processes for which suitable behavioral assays have been developed. While these contributions are too numerous to list, notable examples include identification of the period locus affecting circadian rhythms, which led to a detailed understanding of molecular clocks [2], and mutations at the shaker locus that led to the cloning of the first voltage-activated K(+) channel [3].
A subset of sensory neurons is characterized by a unique sensitivity to capsaicin, the piquant ingredient in hot chili peppers [1]. The excitation of these nerves by capsaicin (Figure 6.1) is followed by a lasting and fully reversible refractory state, traditionally referred to as desensitization, or, under certain conditions such as neonatal treatment, by gross neurotoxicity [1]. (Parenthetically, carefully executed studies found no morphologic evidence of neurotoxicity by capsaicin at therapeutic doses [2].) Capsaicin evokes these responses by interacting at a specific membrane recognition site, originally termed the vanilloid receptor [1]. The diversity of capsaicin-evoked behavior at the whole animal level has, however, long puzzled scientists. For example, while a clear structure-activity relationship for capsaicin congeners was obtained in the rat eye-wiping assay, it also turned out that pungency was not proportional to the desensitizing effect [3]. Based on these studies, it was postulated that different pharmacophores may be responsible for the excitatory and blocking actions of capsaicinoids [3]. The recognition that resiniferatoxin (RTX; Figure 6.1), a diterpene ester isolated from the latex of the cactuslike plant E. resinifera, functions as an ultrapotent capsaicin analogue with a peculiar spectrum of pharmacological actions has lent further experimental support to this concept [1]. For instance, in the rat RTX can desensitize the pulmonary chemoreflex without any apparent prior excitation, indicating that desensitization may be disconnected from stimulation [4]. This is of great importance, as the initial pain response (excitation) represents the main limitation on the clinical use of vanilloids. In 1990, specific binding of [(3)H]RTX provided the first direct proof for the existence of a vanilloid receptor [5]. Structure-activity relationships for binding and (45)Ca uptake were, however, found to be dissimilar, giving rise to the concept that these responses were mediated by functionally distinct receptors [6]. The molecular cloning of the rat vanilloid receptor, subsequently renamed as the transient receptor potential vanilloid receptor 1 (TRPV1), provided the opportunity to test this hypothesis [7]. It turned out that binding and (45)Ca uptake were both mediated by TRPV1 [8]. With this discovery, the research emphasis has shifted to TRPV1 regulation as the mechanism responsible for the reality of the diversity of vanilloid actions. As discussed below, there is now mounting evidence that TRPV1 regulation is amazingly complex and is manifest at many levels, from gene expression through posttranslational modification and formation of receptor homomers to subcellular compartmentalization and association with regulatory proteins. TRPV1 regulation is still only partially understood. Although this regulation has been reviewed exhaustively, the rapid advances in this field necessitate frequent reevaluation of accepted concepts.
We feel a wide range of temperatures spanning from coldness to heat. Within this range, temperatures over about 43C and below about 15C evoke not only a thermal sensation, but also a feeling of pain (LaMotte and Campbell, 1978; Tillman et al., 1995). Neurophysiological studies have demonstrated that the heat threshold of so-called C-fiber mechanoheat nociceptors (CMHs) depends on the absolute temperature, rather than the rate of temperature increase, and that the transduction of heat stimuli occurs at different skin depths for different CMHs (Tillman et al., 1995). Extreme cold also activates a subset of nociceptive neurons. However, the physiology of cold-evoked pain is not as well understood as that of heat-evoked pain. It has been hypothesized that cutaneous nociceptor endings detect temperature and other physical stimuli by means of ion channels responsive to these stimuli. The first support for this hypothesis came from the identification of heat-gated ion channels present in a subset of primary afferent neurons (Cesare and McNaughton, 1996; Reichling and Levine, 1997). Insight into the molecular nature of these channels came shortly thereafter, with the cloning of the capsaicin receptor, TRPV1 (also known as VR1, the first member of the TRPV subfamily) and the recognition that this ion channel protein, like mammalian nociceptors, could be activated by elevated temperatures with a discrete threshold near 43C (Caterina et al., 1997; Caterina and Julius, 2001). Three other TRPV channelsTRPV2 (also known as VRL-1), TRPV3, and TRPV4 (also known as VROAC or OTRPC4)have been cloned and characterized as heat or warm thermosensors (Jordt et al., 2003; Patapoutian et al., 2003; Tominaga and Caterina, 2004). In addition, two TRPM channels (TRPM4 and TRPM5) have been recently reported to be thermosensitive (Talavera et al., 2005). The threshold temperatures for activation of these channels range from relatively warm (TRPV3, TRPV4, TRPM4, and TRPM5) to extremely hot (TRPV2). In contrast to these warmth- or heat-activated TRP channels, two other TRP channelsTRPM8 (also known as CMR1) and TRPA1 (also known as ANKTM1)are activated by cold stimuli (Jordt et al., 2003; Patapoutian et al., 2003; Tominaga and Caterina, 2004). This chapter focuses on eight mammalian thermosensitive TRP channels (Figure 20.1).
Proteolytic enzymes comprise approximately 2 percent of the human genome [1]. Given their abundance, it is not surprising that proteases have diverse biological functions, ranging from the degradation of proteins in lysosomes to the control of physiological processes such as the coagulation cascade. However, a subset of serine proteases (possessing serine residues within their catalytic sites), which may be soluble in the extracellular fluid or tethered to the plasma membrane, are signaling molecules that can specifically regulate cells by cleaving protease-activated receptors (PARs), a family of four G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). These serine proteases include members of the coagulation cascade (e.g., thrombin, factor VIIa, and factor Xa), proteases from inflammatory cells (e.g., mast cell tryptase, neutrophil cathepsin G), and proteases from epithelial tissues and neurons (e.g., trypsins). They are often generated or released during injury and inflammation, and they cleave PARs on multiple cell types, including platelets, endothelial and epithelial cells, myocytes, fibroblasts, and cells of the nervous system. Activated PARs regulate many essential physiological processes, such as hemostasis, inflammation, pain, and healing. These proteases and their receptors have been implicated in human disease and are potentially important targets for therapy. Proteases and PARs participate in regulating most organ systems and are the subject of several comprehensive reviews [2, 3]. Within the central and peripheral nervous systems, proteases and PARs can control neuronal and astrocyte survival, proliferation and morphology, release of neurotransmitters, and the function and activity of ion channels, topics that have also been comprehensively reviewed [4, 5]. This chapter specifically concerns the ability of PARs to regulate TRPV channels of sensory neurons and thereby affect neurogenic inflammation and pain transmission [6, 7].
Mammalian TRP channels form a large family with around thirty members. From sequence similarity, TRPs can be divided into three major TRP subfamilies: the classical or canonical subfamily (TRPC), the melastatin-related subfamily (TRPM), and the vanilloid-receptorrelated subfamily (TRPV) [1]. In addition, there are a number of more distantly related subfamilies: TRPA (ankyrin), TRPP (polycystin), and TRPML (mucolipidin) [13]. TRPV1, the first member of the TRPV family and the sensory neuron receptor for vanilloid ligands like capsaicin, which is also responsive to noxious heat (&gt;42C), was found by expression cloning [4], as were the more distantly related epithelial Ca(2+) channels TRPV5 [5] and TRPV6 [6]. The other members, TRPV2 [7], TRPV4 (see below), and later TRPV3 [810], were found by homology screens. TRPV4 was found by screening expressed sequence tag databases for sequences with similarity to TRPV1, TRPV2, and the C. elegans TRPV isoform OSM-9. Lacking a consensus on nomenclature at the time, TRPV4 was given a variety of namesOTRPC4 (OSM-9-like TRP channel 4) [11], VROAC (vanilloid receptorrelated osmotically activated channel) [12], TRP12 [13] and VRL-2 (vanilloid receptorlike channel 2) [14]by the different groups who cloned the channel. TRPV4 has 871 amino acids, and structural features of the channel are intracellular N- and C-termini, six membrane spanning segments (S1S6), a reentrant pore-forming loop between S5 and S6, and at least three ankyrin domains in the cytosolic N-terminus (see, e.g., Figure 9.2). Even though TRPV4 shows sequence similarity to other members of the TRPV family, particularly to TRPV13, a coexpression study has indicated that TRPV4 preferentially forms homomers [15], and, as yet, there is no evidence for heteromultimeric combinations with other TRPVs.
Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) is one of the most common monogenic diseases, affecting 1 in 400 to 1 in 1,000 individuals. In ADPKD patients, the kidney accumulates multiple cysts, which ultimately cause end-stage renal disease. Mutation in the PKD1 or PKD2 gene accounts for 95 percent of ADPKD cases [1, 2]. PKD1 encodes polycystin-1 (PC-1), a 4,302 amino acid protein with a large extracellular domain, a G-protein-coupled receptor proteolytic site (GPS), eleven transmembrane (TM) domains, and an intracellular C-terminus (Figure 19.1) [1, 3]. The polycystin/lipoxygenase/alpha-toxin (PLAT) domain is located in the first cytoplasmic loop between TM1 and TM2 and has been postulated to be involved in membraneprotein or proteinprotein interactions [4]. The PLAT domain is conserved in all PC-1 family members and is also found in a variety of membrane-or lipid-associated proteins. Polycystin-2 (PC-2, encoded by PKD2) is a transient receptor protein polycystin (TRPP) family member [2] and acts as a nonselective cation channel (reviewed in reference [5]). Mammalian PC-1 and PC-2 have been demonstrated to localize to primary cilia of kidney epithelial cells [6, 7] where they function as a mechanosensitive channel [8]. ADPKD is one of a number of human genetic diseases that are rooted in defects in cilia formation, maintenance, or function [9, 10, 11].
In this chapter we address the puzzle of thermoTRP channel temperature and voltage sensitivity from a biophysical point of view. We deal with the problem through a classic thermodynamic approach, followed by a comparison of thermoTRPs behavior with our present knowledge regarding protein structure folding. On the basis of their temperature dependence and voltage dependence, we propose a general allosteric model for thermoTRP channel gating.
The TRPV subfamily has had increasing attention since some channels in this group have been shown to be sensitive to a broad range of environmental stimuli, including heat, osmosensitivity, and mechanical stress. In addition, TRPV proteins are widely expressed in a range of cell types in lower and higher organisms. Although some TRPVs were originally found in the sensory system, ubiquitous expression in the whole body suggests that they play important roles in both sensory and nonsensory transduction functions. All mammalian homologues of TRPVs are calcium-permeable channels, with TRPV14 characterized as moderately calcium-selective cationic channels (Nilius, Voets et al. 2005; O'Neil and Brown 2003; Benham, Davis et al. 2002). This calcium permeability is physiologically important because Ca(2+) has an obligatory role in regulating diverse cellular functions (e.g., fertilization, muscle contraction, exocytosis, and so on). There is increasing evidence that TRPV14 are sensitive to physical stimuli such as osmolarity, stretching, and shear stress (Liedtke and Kim 2005; O'Neil and Heller 2005). Whereas TRPV4 appears to be crucial for some relevant forms of cellular mechanosensitivity, the activation of TRPVs by mechanostress has not been fully elucidated for all channels of this group (O'Neil and Heller 2005). Cellular responses to stretch or shear stimuli by blood flow are one of the key elements in muscle tone regulation (Figure 28.1A). In cell-attached and inside-out patch-recording modes, membrane stretch applied through the recording pipette activates nonselective cationic channels in vascular smooth muscles (Kirber et al. 1988; Davis et al. 1992; Ohya et al. 1998; see review: Beech et al. 2004). The unitary conductances range from 8 to 64 pS for monovalent cations, and a cationic channel blocker, Gd(3+), is effective to block the channel. In whole-cell recordings, application of longitudinal cell stretch or cell swelling by pressure on the patch pipette or hypotonic bath solution also evokes Ca(2+)-permeable cationic currents in vascular myocytes (Davis et al. 1992). Additionally, in cardiac atrial and ventricular myocytes, nonselective cationic channels are activated by cell swelling as well as membrane stretch (Clemo and Baumgarten 1997; Zhang et al. 2000; Kamkin et al. 2003). Similar nonselective cationic channels sensitive to mechanical stimuli including shear stress are also identified in vascular endothelial cells (Lansman et al. 1987; Oike et al. 1994; see review: Nilius and Droogmans 2001). Although extensive studies to identify a molecular candidate of these mechanosensitive channels have been performed, information is still limited (Kanzaki, Nagasawa et al. 1999; Gillespie and Walker 2001). Nevertheless, the mechanosensitive nature of the channels seems to be conserved in higher organisms for some TRP channels, and it is likely that TRPC1, TRPC6, TRPV2, TRPM4, TRPA1, TRPP1, and possibly TRPV4 are potential candidates for the mechanosensitive channels in various native organs (Maroto et al. 2005; Welsh et al. 2002; Muraki et al. 2003; Iwata et al. 2003; Earley, Waldron et al. 2004; Corey et al. 2004; Nauli et al. 2003; Liedtke 2005). In this section, we focus on expression, function, and mechanosensitivity of TRPV2 (a member of the vanilloid receptor TRP subfamily) in circulatory organs such as vascular smooth muscles, cardiac muscles, and the endothelium. Heat activation and trafficking mechanisms of TRPV2 and expression of TRPV2 in neuronal organs will be discussed in another section (Caterina et al. 1999; Kanzaki, Zhang et al. 1999; Boels et al. 2001; Barnhill et al. 2004; Benham, Gunthorpe et al. 2003).
Our sensory systems are able to detect subtle changes in ambient temperature, due to the coordinated efforts of thermosensory neurons. At the level of the primary afferent nerve, the site at which thermal stimuli are converted into neuronal activity, temperature-sensitive members of the TRP channel family are found. Remarkably, the range of temperatures that these channels respond to covers the entire perceived temperature spectrum, from warm to painfully hot, from pleasingly cool to excruciatingly cold [1]. Moreover, many of these channels are receptors for ligands that elicit distinct psychophysical sensations, such as the heat associated with capsaicin and the cold felt with menthol. The latter of these was influential in the discovery of the first TRP channel shown to be responsive to temperatures in the cold range (&lt;30C), TRPM8, a member of the melastatin TRP channel subfamily [2,3]. This chapter focuses on TRPM8, describing what was known about cold signaling before the channel was cloned, how TRPM8 was identified as a cold sensor, and what advances have been made in our understanding of the molecular logic for cold sensation since its identification.
In mammals, TRPA1 is the sole member of the TRPA gene subfamily. Recent reports identified TRPA1 as a target for the noxious and inflammatory irritant mustard oil in peripheral sensory neurons, implicating a functional role in pain and neurogenic inflammation. Other studies suggest that TRPA1 participates in additional sensory processes, such as cold sensation and hearing. In this chapter, we summarize and discuss these recent findings and speculate about the potential physiological role of TRPA1 in chemosensation and pain transduction.
TRP ion channels were first described in Drosophila melanogaster in 1989 and in mammals several years later. In 1997, TRPV1, a member of the TRP channel superfamily (now with more than 60 members in vertebrates and invertebrates but not in bacteria and plants), was described to respond to the pungent ingredients of hot pepper, then named capsaicin receptor. Ever since we have witnessed an explosion of activity in this field of scientific inquiry for obvious reasons. TRP ion channels are critical elements in signal transduction of cellular signaling cascades and of neurosensory processes, which are involved in all five senses. This book, TRP Ion Channel Function in Sensory Transduction and Cellular Signaling Cascades presents 31 chapters written by researchers who have made these key discoveries, such as Dr. Lutz Birnbaumer who discovered mammalian TRP channels, and who continues to conduct TRP ion channel research at the cutting edge of this hyperdynamic area. Because of the burgeoning nature of the field, this book does not represent an all-comprehensive view on TRP channel biology. However, it does shed light on selected topics of outstanding interest in the TRP arena, such as signal transduction in axonal pathfinding, and vascular, renal, auditory, and nociceptive functioning, to name a few, and the spotlight is cast by an international cast of outstanding chapter authors.
The Drosophila trp mutation is responsible for the phenotype called transient receptor potential, an alteration of the flys electrorentinogram in which its sustained phase is missing [1,2]. The responsible gene was cloned in 1989 [3]. Its amino acid sequence predicted a protein with eight hydrophobic segments that could potentially form transmembrane segments. Purification and cloning of a calmodulin-binding protein from Drosophila heads showed it to be a homologue of trp. It received the name trp-like or trpl [4]. Its discoverers highlighted the existence of limited sequence similarities between trp/trpl and voltage-sensitive Na(+) and Ca(2+) channels. Expression of trpl in silkworm cells of Spodoptera frugiperda (Sf9 cells) did indeed lead to appearance of cation channels [5]. In keeping with both a role for trp and trpl in insect phototransduction, and the fact that insect phototransduction is biochemically akin to mammalian signal transduction based on the Gq-PLC pathway instead of a transducin-phosphodiesterase (Gt-PDE) pathway [6,7], the trpl channels expressed in Sf9 cells could be activated by a Gq-coupled GPCR [8].
In previous chapters, the current knowledge of the neurobiology of the mammalian brainstem gustatory relay nucleus has been detailed. Information presented shows that all chemosensory information derived from stimulating taste receptors, no matter where they are located, has to pass through the rostral nucleus of the solitary tract (rNST), and by the 1960s, the basic brainstem projection pattern of the afferent gustatory nerves had been established in outline form (summarized in Chapter 1, Figure 1.1). Details of the development of the connections are only now being studied and found to consist of complex overlapping terminal fields that suggest highly convergent input to the second-order neurons (Figure 6.2). Further anatomical pathway tracing mainly in rodents has established the projection patterns from the rNST to both rostral brain areas and brainstem sites (Figure 7.1). As described in Chapter 4, the brainstem connections from rNST are the secretomotor output to the salivary glands and motor output to various muscles involved in oral reflexes and facial expression. The rostral projection divides at the parabrachial nucleus, with one pathway passing through the thalamus to the cortex, whose function is believed to be involved in the sensory discriminative aspect of taste perception, whereas the other, limbic pathway is believed to be involved in the hedonic component of taste perception and its control of feeding. In addition, descending connections from forebrain areas to the rNST have also been described and to some extent investigated by examining the effects of electrical stimulation of these areas on the response characteristics of rNST neurons (Chapter 5). Extracellular recordings were initially used to functionally establish that the rNST was in fact the brainstem taste relay, and then this technique was used by numerous later investigations to probe the role of the relay nucleus in taste processing. It is only in recent years that intracellular recordings have been used to characterize the biophysical and synaptic properties of rNST neurons. Despite extensive investigations by many laboratories, the rNST essentially remains a black box, and there is little information on what the rNST neurons do or how they interact as a neural circuit to process gustatory information. Nevertheless, investigators have made conclusions based on extracellular recordings from unidentified neurons in a limited part of the rNST on how the nucleus processes taste information. These experimental approaches have used similar techniques: Extracellular recordings are made from a sample of rNST neurons, and then a variety of ever more complex analyses applied to the data set. Often, only one concentration of a stimulus is used, and some feature of the resultant neural discharge is analyzed. It is apparent, therefore, though never stated, that several underlying assumptions are made in all these experiments that, if challenged, could undermine the conclusions that are drawn. It is my intent in this chapter to examine these assumptions more closely and suggest other ways to approach the study of the role of the rNST in processing taste stimulus-initiated neural activity.
Synaptic processing in the NST has been extensively studied using neurophysiological, immunocytochemical, and microinjection techniques. Numerous neurotransmitters and neuromodulators have been shown to be involved in the nongustatory NST [13], but studies of neurotransmitters involved in the rostral NST are more limited [46]. Because the NST extends over a considerable rostral-caudal distance and investigators restrict their analyses to a particular function of the NST (e.g., cardiovascular control or taste processing), descriptions are often limited to a region of the NST responsible for that function. Moreover, it is not always possible, when investigators use coronal sections, to determine if the rostral NST was studied (see, for example, Ambalavanar et al., 1998 and Saha et al., 2001) [7, 8] even though the title of the report implies that the whole NST is being investigated. When investigators use horizontal sections of the entire extent of the NST, differences in neurotransmitter distribution become evident (see Davis and Jang, 1988) [9]. Thus, even though numerous neurotransmitters or neuromodulators have been shown to be involved in NST processing, closer examination of these publications reveals that they are limited primarily to caudal nongustatory NST.
The nucleus of the solitary tract (NST) is a major sensory nucleus in the dorsal medulla that receives cardiovascular, visceral, respiratory, gustatory, and orotactile information [1,2]. The NST begins at the level of the pyramidal decussation near the cervical spinal cord and extends rostral to the caudal part of the dorsal cochlear nucleus [3]. Caudally, the NST spans the midline forming the commissural subnucleus. Rostral to the area postrema, the NST splits into left and right halves that straddle the midline and abut the ventrolateral edge of the fourth ventricle. The traditional anatomical beginning of the rostral NST (rNST) is the point where the medial edge of the nucleus no longer contacts the fourth ventricle (Figure 2.1). The rNST initially is displaced laterally from the fourth ventricle by the medial vestibular and prepositus hypoglossal nuclei and at its rostral extreme is adjacent to the spinal trigeminal and vestibular nuclei. Although histologically contiguous with the caudal part of the nucleus, the rNST is functionally distinct because it receives gustatory and other orosensory primary afferent input [4,5]. In fact, the traditional anatomical location of the border between the rostral and caudal NST only partly reflects the functional differences between these regions of the nucleus. Because terminal fields of orosensory cranial nerves extend several hundred microns caudal to where the NST moves lateral to the fourth ventricle [610], functionally the rNST extends caudal to its traditional beginning.
Developing mammals are highly dependent on the sense of taste to find and choose sources of food. From the earliest postnatal ages, the gustatory system plays a major role in ingestive behaviors and the proper utilization of food in conjunction with homeostatic systems. In addition to discrimination of taste quality and quantity, this sensory system must complement the needs of changing nutritive demands and age-related changes in gastrointestinal function by processing sensory information in a developmentally appropriate way. For example, age-related changes in electrolyte levels determined by gut and renal development [1] may influence age-related changes in gustatory function. Although this hypothesis has not been tested directly, changes in electrolytes, such as plasma sodium levels, occur temporally with increased peripheral taste responses during the first three postnatal weeks in rats [25]. Conversely, visceral function is impacted through reflexes triggered by the gustatory system. For example, preabsorptive pancreatic release of insulin in adult animals is triggered by the taste of sugar [6]. Therefore, developmental plasticity in gustatory function, especially plasticity resident to the CNS, may have wide ranging physiological effects beyond sensory coding. Although the peripheral gustatory system is accurately portrayed as a key site of age-related and experience-related plasticity, primarily because of the ongoing turnover of adult taste bud cells [79], it is clear that the nucleus of the solitary tract (NST) also shows an unexpected degree of plasticity during development. In fact, the anatomical and functional studies described in this chapter will demonstrate that the structure-function changes in this first central relay are as impressive as the cortical regions of other sensory systems. As such, the NST provides an ideal location to examine development of the local circuitry and function as well as the development of interactions with brainstem nuclei of other systems (e.g., oromotor). It is our goal in this chapter to describe the development of the gustatory component of the NST with a particular emphasis on structural and functional plasticity. Interested readers should also examine other recent reviews with differing emphases [1016].
The current understanding of the neuroanatomy of the rNST resulted from a number of discoveries spanning 100 years. In the 1850s, early investigators of the medulla first described the ST, which was suggested to have a number of functions, both sensory and motor. Subsequent investigators discovered that the ST was composed of the central processes of the glossopharyngeal and vagus nerves, followed some time later by the finding that the sensory portion of the facial nerve also contributed to the ST. Investigators then began to detail the grey matter surrounding the ST, which at first was thought to consist of separate nuclei, but later was determined to be a continuous column of second-order neurons. Because the afferent input to the rNST originated principally from taste receptors, the rNST was defined as the medullary taste relay nucleus, although other medullary sites were proposed based on comparative neuroanatomy to be the gustatory nucleus. The role of the rNST as the first central nervous system taste relay was cemented by electrophysiological recordings from neurons in the rNST, which were found to respond when taste stimuli were flowed over the tongue.
The gustatory system in mammals provides sensory input that is critical for the regulation of ingestive behavior and the avoidance of toxic substances. Taste serves a unique role among sensory systems in the extent to which it interfaces with neural substrates of reward and motivation [1]. For example, sweet- and bitter-tasting stimuli produce inherent preference and avoidance, respectively, and sweet-tasting stimuli can serve as effective reinforcers. The anatomy of the taste system reflects its dual role as both a discriminative system, designed to determine subtle differences in taste quality and intensity, and a motivational one, which underlies the acceptance and rejection of potential foods. Anatomically, the taste system is situated between the external environment and the internal milieu, making taste a rostral extension of the visceral afferent system [2]. The rostral nucleus of the solitary tract (rNST) in the medulla lies at the interface between taste receptors and the brain. Gustatory neurons in the rNST receive input from the chorda tympani and greater superficial petrosal nerves, which are branches of cranial nerve VII, the glossopharyngeal nerve (IX), and the vagus nerve (X). The chorda tympani nerve innervates taste bud cells of the fungiform papillae on the anterior tongue, whereas the greater superficial petrosal nerve innervates those in palatal epithelia. The glossopharyngeal nerve relays taste information from the posterior tongue to the rNST. The vagus nerve innervates receptor cells found near the epiglottis. Gustatory neurons in the rNST serve the critical function of integrating and encoding information received from taste receptors and routing this information to higher centers involved with motivated behavior and perceptual processing. The NST also projects information to nearby structures in the brainstem that are involved in mediating oromotor responses. Many factors influence how rNST neurons respond to taste stimuli and also how information about tastants could be encoded in their spike outputs.
Devoted exclusively by gustatory processing, The Role of the Nucleus of the Solitary Tract in Gustatory Processing offers an in-depth review of one of the most important central relay stations in the brain. Combining widely dispersed research into a single comprehensive volume, it presents a thorough historical background, documents the anatomy of the rostral nucleus of the solitary tract (rNST), and explores the properties of synaptic transmitters and neurons within that tract. The book examines the role of reflex activities and considers factors that influence how gustatory rNST neurons respond to taste stimuli. It describes the development and maturational changes the rNST undergoes and considers the challenge involved with identifying rNST neural circuits The Role of the Nucleus of the Solitary Tract in Gustatory Processing serves as a standard reference for those involved in the field, providing ready access to past investigations and inviting practitioners to create new approaches that will advance knowledge about the central processing of gustatory information.
The NST plays a pivotal role as a portal of entry of visceral and sensory information arising from the gut, cardiorespiratory, somatosensory, and taste systems. The role of the NST in autonomic and circulatory control has been recently reviewed [1,2] but connections from the NST to brainstem motor systems responsible for muscle activity related to feeding and salivary secretion have only recently received attention. Studies of the neurons and synaptic connections between taste afferent input and preganglionic neurons controlling the salivary glands are limited. And although there is considerable anatomical knowledge of the circuits connecting the rostral NST (rNST) to the orofacial motor neuron pools, details of the neurobiology of the synaptic connections remain to be studied. Despite this paucity of information, some functional properties of the reflex connections between the rNST and brainstem motor and preganglionic secretomotor neurons are known and are reviewed here. Gustatory information processed by the rNST is distributed to a number of brain locations. By far the most studied is the rostral connection via the parabrachial nucleus to higher brain centers responsible for sensory and hedonic gustatory processing. However, just as important are connections to brainstem loci that are the basis of a number of reflex activities [3,4]. During feeding, several oral-motor behaviors are initiated, such as chewing, licking, and swallowing. These motor behaviors are organized at the brainstem level and can occur even after decerebration. Another reflex involves the facial expressions that occur in response to taste stimuli. Both humans and rats make stereotypical facial expressions to taste qualities and these have been extensively studied and used as a behavioral measure of taste hedonics [5]. In humans, these expressions can be elicited at birth before any experience of taste stimuli has occurred and are, therefore, considered to be innate, implying developmentally determined rNST circuits [6]. Moreover, this reflex behavior is retained in decerebrate animals, again indicating innate brainstem circuits [7]. Finally, saliva is secreted in response to taste and somatosensory oral stimulation. Because salivary secretion is solely initiated in response to activation of the autonomic nerve supply to the salivary glands [8], sensory information from the oral cavity must form the afferent limb of this reflex. The gustatory component of these essential reflexes, therefore, is processed and initiated by the rNST and reflects complex neural mechanisms that occur when sensory information arrives at the nucleus.
The properties of neuronal plasticity are not only studied after brain injury. Adaptive changes also take place in the neurons of genetically modified animals, which provide a rational for genetic studies in humans suffering from mental diseases. Following a brief summary describing the alterations in human serotonin (5-HT, 5-hydrox-ytryptamine) gene receptors found in one of the most complex of mental functionsmotivation related to food or illegal drugs intakewe will describe that the only gene deficit, destroying 5-HT receptor, is not enough to produce apparent maladap-tive behavior in rodents. However, when combined with a novel environmental challenge, modified genetic predisposition induces deviant behavior. Locomotion, feeding, and emotion-like state disorders (anxiety-like behavior, depression-like syndrome) are classically underlined by brain deficits and subsequently linked to adaptive neuronal changes. This review gathered evidence to postulate that following genetic alterations, the brain partly burns its adaptive resources over time, and lacks a sufficient flexibility to adapt during adulthood. The limits of adaptive changes in neurons in the face of an unexpected environmental context, may therefore represent an open door for mental-like disorders to emerge.
Serotonin or 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) is an ancient chemical that is synthesized in the brain and also in the peripheral system. It binds to 14 or more receptor proteins, all but one of which are G protein-coupled receptors. Pharmacological, behavioral, and clinical studies have placed one of these receptors, the serotonin 1A (5-HT1A) receptor, in the forefront as a protein that binds to 5-HT with high affinity to exert subtle control over emotion and behavior. This review will compare and contrast existing data on expression and signaling activity of the brain 5-HT1A receptor. Our purpose is to critically assess the current understanding of those 5-HT1AR-mediated signaling cascades that are physiologically important and also to unravel the poorly understood processes that have yet to be delineated through further experiments.
The fluorescence-based approaches and their application to the serotonin1A receptor described in this chapter provide novel insights into the membrane biology of the serotonin1A receptor, and represent promising strategies to understand membrane protein function under nativelike conditions. In conjunction with recent advances on the role of the membrane lipid environment (especially cholesterol) on the ligand binding, G-protein coupling and membrane organization of the serotonin1A receptor (reviewed in 6,25,26), the methodologies described here provide significant insight into developing a comprehensive understanding of receptor function. This area of research assumes relevance considering the fact that membrane protein function and its dependence on the lipid environment are found to have enormous implications in health and disease [6].
Five-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT or serotonin) is an important neuromodulator involved in a wide range of physiological functions. The effects of serotonin are mediated by a large family of receptors, either ionotropic or coupled to second-messenger cascades. With the exception of the 5-HT3 receptor, which is a cation channel, all 5-HT receptors belong to the superfamily of 7 transmembrane-spanning receptors that are coupled to multiple heterotrimeric G-proteins. Many of the cellular responses mediated by serotonin do not involve activation of one particular second-messenger cascade but result from the functional integration of the networks of intracellular signaling pathways. To better understand serotonergic signaling, it is therefore important to have a broad palette of methodical approaches that allow specific analysis of signaling processes with high spatial and temporal resolution. Moreover, study of receptor functions within a living cell is required to extend results obtained by biochemical and pharmacological methods. Such measurements also allow real-time analysis of signaling processes in a single cell. Cyclic AMP (cAMP) is a key second messenger that transmits information to many different effector proteins within the cell. The cellular cAMP level depends on the activity of two groups of enzymes, the adenylyl cyclases (AC) that produce cAMP and the phosphodiesterases (PDE) that hydrolyze cAMP (Beavo, 1995; Sunahara et al., 1996). Increased cAMP levels activate a number of different effector proteins, including protein kinase A (PKA) (Francis and Corbin, 1999), hyperpolarization-activated (I h ) channels (DiFrancesco, 1993), the guaninenucleotide exchange factor Epac (de Rooij et al., 1998), and cyclic nucleotide-gated (CNG) channels (Finn et al., 1996). Metabotropic serotonin receptors coupled to Gs (5HT4 and 5HT7) or Gi/o proteins (5HT1 and 5HT5) regulate AC activity, thereby changing local cAMP concentration (Barnes and Sharp, 1999). Because biochemical methods used for cAMP measurement lack both spatial and temporal resolution, detailed understanding of how information is transduced within cAMP-regulated signaling cascades is elusive. The classical approach to analyze the receptor-mediated change in cAMP concentration includes labeling of the cells with radioactive adenine followed by the calculation of the conversion rate of [(3)H]ATP to [(3)H]cAMP. Although this biochemical assay is very robust and reproducible, it can not provide information about the real-time course of the cAMP level. To answer this question, cAMP signals need to be measured within the dynamic environment of the living cell. In this chapter, we concentrate on recently established methods allowing the quantitative measurement of the intracellular cAMP concentration in living cells with good spatial and temporal resolution. These will include two different approaches: (1) electrophysiological analysis to detect electrical currents mediated by cAMP-mediated activation/inactivation of hyperpolarization-activated, cyclic nucleotide-modulated ion channels (HCN) and (2) measurement of Frster Resonance Energy Transfer (FRET) by using fluorescent-labeled guanine nucleotide exchange factor (Epac) that is activated by direct binding of cAMP (Ponsioen et al., 2004).
In this article we describe a technique to directly image vesicular serotonin in live neurons. In the context of serotonergic signaling in the brain, it is important to map out serotonergic storage and release sites, together with the distribution of serotonin receptors. Receptor mapping is possible by using endogenously labeled receptors, but serotonin vesicle mapping is more difficult. Following the early success in mapping serotonin in mast cells with three-photon excitation microscopy [1], we have recently demonstrated that such mapping is possible also in live neurons [2]. We describe here the technique of serotonin imaging in detail, together with a few application examples. This three-photon excitation based imaging technique should also be useful in general for live cell microscopy of UV chromophores. What we present here is intended to be a practical guide and not a review of three-photon microscopy. For the technical details described here, we have strictly relied on our own hands-on experience. The description is divided into three main sections. Multiphoton Microscopy presents a brief summary of the concepts of multiphoton excitation. This is followed by a description of the optical technique of serotonin imaging in Optical Setup. Finally, Imaging Serotonin and Other Monoamines in Live Neurons describes a few examples of serotonin imaging in neuronal cells and also describes how this technology can possibly be extended to image other monoamines.
Increasingly, it is becoming recognized that transcriptional modulation of genes by sequence variations, DNA methylation, and alterations in transcription factor expression can play a major role in the behavioral phenotype throughout its development. Hence, the understanding of the transcriptional mechanisms that regulate key candidate genes for mental illness has taken on new significance. In a step-by-step approach we describe the crucial experiments to identify and characterize mechanisms of transcription regulation of the 5-HT1A receptor gene, which has been implicated in major depression, anxiety disorders, and suicide. These steps include: identification of transcription start sites by RT-PCR, primer extension, 5-RACE, and RNase protection assay; characterization of upstream promoter, enhancer, and repressor regions using 5-deletion luciferase reporter constructs and transfection assays in cell lines and primary cultures; identification of protein-DNA interactions using EMSA, super-shift and CHIP assays; cloning of novel transcription factors using yeast one-hybrid screening and functional characterization using Gal4-DBD system and by siRNA approaches. Using these approaches in combination with bioinformatics searches it is possible to identify and characterize the basic transcriptional regulatory mechanisms of virtually any candidate gene of interest and to identify specific proximal DNA elements and transcriptional factors that mediate its regulation.
The first knockout of a 5-HT receptor was published more than 10 years ago and since then most of the 5-HT receptors have been genetically inactivated in mice. Reviewing the anxiety-related behavior of individual receptor knockout lines, it is apparent that genetic inactivation of some receptors, including the 5-HT2A and 5-HT3 receptors, reproduced the phenotype elicited by the acute pharmacological blockade of the receptor. This indicates that signaling through some 5-HT receptors is directly involved in the regulation of anxiety states. In other cases, however, the genetic inactivation and pharmacological blockade of the receptor resulted in different and sometimes opposing behaviors. For example, the genetic inactivation of the 5-HT transporter results in increased anxiety whereas chronic pharmacological blockade of the 5-HT transporter by SSRIs leads to reduced anxiety. Mice null for the 5-HT1A receptor show increased anxiety, while selective pharmacological inhibitors of the receptor do not have a measurable effect on anxiety in adult mice. These are interesting findings because the genetic inactivation of the receptor could be similar to inherited conditions characterized by a loss of function mutation of the receptor/transporter. Indeed, 5-HT transporter knockout in mice may reproduce the s polymorphism in humans. Also, certain individuals have a reduced expression of the 5-HT1A receptor that, if present from early life, is similar to the null mutation of the receptor in mice. Therefore, the 5-HT1A receptor and 5-HT transporter knock-out mouse strains may represent disease models that can be used to understand how a receptor or transporter deficiency leads to an anxiety-like phenotype.
This chapter explores emerging roles for calmodulin as a regulator of 5-HT receptor function and describes recent work suggesting that calmodulin may be a so-called RIP (receptor-interacting protein) that binds to and modifies the functions of G protein-coupled 5-HT receptors.
G-protein-coupled receptors or GPCRs have been a major area of study in the past decades. This is not surprising as this group, comprising a thousand-odd proteins, constitutes the largest group of signal transducers across the cell membrane and is also implicated in a vast number of diseases [1]. All major neuromodulators and some fast neurotransmitters act through either a single GPCR or a family of GPCRs, collectively termed a neuromodulator receptor family (such as the serotonin receptor family). This dependence of proper brain function on GPCR signaling is reflected in the fact that most psychiatric diseases implicate one or many malfunctioning GPCRs in their pathophysiology. Consequently, drugs aimed at treating these disorders are primarily targeted to GPCRs. The serotonin 2A receptor (5-HT2A) has been implicated in mental disorders with complex etiologies that are still not clearly understood, in processes such as learning and memory, and also in neurogenesis. There are a large number of drugs targeted to this receptor. Though the receptor has been studied largely in relation to its multiple functions in the CNS, high levels of receptor expression in other areas such as the intestine, platelets and endothelial cells suggest that it could play crucial roles in other aspects of physiology. Research shows that some GPCRs, including the 5-HT2A receptor, exhibit critical differences in aspects of functional regulation from those seen in conventionally studied model GPCRs such as the -2-adrenergic receptor. The receptor also couples to a number of intracellular signaling cascades, making it an important receptor to study. The 5-HT2A receptor could well serve as an important alternate paradigm in the study of GPCR function. The 5-HT2A receptor was initially identified by hybridization using conserved elements of the cloned 5-HT2C receptor, followed by functional expression [2,3]. It bears strong similarity in primary sequence to the two other members of its subfamily, i.e., 5-HT2B and 5-HT2C. All members of the 5-HT2 receptor subfamily primarily couple to PLC on activation. As with most GPCRs, 5-HT2A functional regulation also involves desensitization and resensitizationregulatory processes that help prevent overstimulation and allow recuperation of signaling competence, respectively. Internalization and recycling of the receptor represent two processes that regulate this desensitization and resensitization. The receptor contains numerous recognition motifs for interacting partners to dock and facilitate receptor signaling, desensitization or trafficking. In some GPCRs, these processes are mediated by posttranslational modifications such as phosphorylation of one or more amino acid residues of the receptor. What makes these processes an area of consistent interest in 5-HT2A research is that drugs, psychotropic or therapeutic, modify many aspects of receptor functionality. Conversely, it has been suggested that the pathophysiology of psychiatric disorders is based on malfunctions in one or more aspects of GPCR function. The importance of the role played by the 5-HT2A receptor in mediating CNS function can be seen by its considerable expression in various regions of the CNS and its wide-ranging effects.
A number of developments spanning a multitude of techniques makes this an exciting time for research in serotonin receptors. A comprehensive review of the subject from a multidisciplinary perspective, Serotonin Receptors in Neurobiology is among the first books to include information on serotonin receptor knockout studies. With contributions from leading experts in their fields, the book explores serotonin receptors from a broad-based, multidisciplinary approach. The approaches described vary from molecular biological techniques to florescence microscopy and imaging, to genetic manipulation in animal models, providing a wide range of tools to study serotonergic phenomena. While each of these approaches has its own advantages and limitations, the synthesis of information and knowledge achieved from studies using multiple approaches will result in a comprehensive understanding of the underlying complex phenomena involved in serotonergic signalling and its implications in health and disease. The book provides an overall understanding of these receptors based on currently used methodologies and techniques. It describes specific experimental procedures that will be of use to researchers interested in addressing similar problems involving other G-protein-coupled receptor signalling systems.
The field of learning and memory has benefited from reversible brain interventions since they were introduced more than four decades ago.1,2 Progress in developing a variety of reversible inactivation procedures has led to a wide array of potent tools that now allow us to investigate different levels of learning and organization of brain memory processes. As noted in the literature,3 the complexity and variety of processes involved in learning and memory require a complex approach to advance the understanding of the relevant neurobiological mechanisms. Although much progress has been made at the molecular and cellular levels, a complete picture will be only attained by advancing knowledge of the functional organization of learning and memory brain circuits at the system level, which it is also recognized as the most difficult approach.4 Limitations of the available techniques for undergoing a lesion approach in the field may contribute to the difficulties. This chapter will address the advantages and limitations of reversible inactivation techniques for research on the neural substrate of learning and memory at the system level. Thus, results of reversible manipulations aimed to explore the molecular mechanisms of learning and memory will not be considered because extensive reviews59 are available on specific topics. Since the seminal work of Bures and Buresova10 inactivating wide brain regions to dissociate sensory and associative processes in taste aversion learning and also investigating interhemispheric transfer of memory traces, a range of procedures for temporary inactivation of discrete brain sites has been developed and applied to learning and memory research. Several reviews centering upon different learning procedures have been published in the past decade and show the value of the reversible inactivation approach for advancing knowledge in the field.11,13,14,37 This chapter does not intend to be a comprehensive review of the knowledge gained using reversible inactivation approaches, but will show representative issues that have benefited from this approach, thus leading to a better knowledge of the brain organization of learning and memory processes at the system level. The need for careful interpretation of the behavioral results based on the specific brain changes induced by the currently available reversible inactivation techniques will be stressed.
The current challenge of studying the mechanisms involving memory formation requires the possibility of capacity to analyze in the different brain regions that comprise the neuronal system and circuits underlying the different stages of memory. A timely detailed description of the dynamics of neurotransmitter release can and does provide information on the different areas of the brain, the chemical mechanisms involved, and their levels of participation during different physiological processes. Accordingly, the possibility of correlating behavior with changes in the extracellular level of neurotransmitters in CNS regions involved in information transmission and modulation is a great advantage in the study of memory formation. Also, the knowledge of the neurotransmitters released in different brain areas may result in the identification of important pharmacological targets. In this regard, in vivo microdialysis is a well-established method for monitoring the extracellular levels of neurotransmitters in the CNS. This technique has been used extensively in neuroscience for almost 30 years.16 Microdialysis allows online estimates of neurotransmitters in living animals and is a suitable method for monitoring the extracellular levels of neurotransmitters during local administration of pharmacological agents.7 Different doses of a drug or a combination of agonists and antagonists can be administered in the same experiment without adding any fluid to extracellular spaces. Older alternative in vivo methods for the study of neurotransmitter release are the pushpull technique used in the brain,8 spinal cord,9 and intrathecal space.10 Currently, measuring the changes in neurotransmitter extracellular levels in discrete brain areas is considered an important tool for identifying the neuronal systems involved in specific memory processes. Several neurotransmitters including acetylcholine (ACh), glutamate, -amino-butyric acid (GABA), and catecholamines have been investigated in a variety of memory models, with considerable evidence of extracellular level variations that correlated with changes in neuronal activity during memory formation. This chapter summarizes and discusses the results obtained from investigating changes in ACh, glutamate, GABA, dopamine, and noradrenaline release during exposure to novel stimuli and performance of several kinds of long-term memory tasks such as operant and spatial memory tasks, and during taste recognition memory.
How are memories made? How and where are they maintained? How are they retrieved and how do they initiate and control behavior? These questions have been asked for many centuries; the Egyptians, Greeks and Romans all offered suggested answers, both fanciful and wrong. The emergence of empirical scientific physiological inquiry in the 18th and 19th centuries created the understanding and acceptance that memory is the province of the brain, rather than the heart or other bodily organs. Memory was then firmly placed in the tissues of the brain and not in the ventricles  a previously popular notion. That previous idea was guided then, as ours are now, by facts and metaphors created by current technology. After all, before the 18th century a great deal was known about the functioning of fluids, but cells had not yet been discovered and studies of electrophysiology had not even been imagined.
For almost a century it has been assumed that short-term memory (STM) is in charge of cognition while long-term memory (LTM) is consolidated over several hours. A major question is whether STM is merely a step toward LTM or a separate entity. This chapter presents experimental evidence showing that several compounds with specific molecular actions given into different memory-relevant areas of the brain after inhibitory avoidance training can effectively block or enhance STM retention without affecting or producing inverse effects on LTM consolidation. The effects of different metabolic inhibitors on working memory (WM) were also studied. In some brain regions WM is affected by receptor blockers that alter either STM or LTM; in other areas it is not affected. We also present behavioral data that further endorse the hypothesis that STM is separated from LTM: (1) STM is not susceptible to extinction while LTM can be readily extinguished and (2) STM retention is not sensitive to a novel experience 1 hour after training while LTM certainly is.
Although my colleagues and I were the first to demonstrate brain plasticity and modification of brain circuits through experience, this was not the original purpose of our work. Instead, we were looking for neural bases of the individual differences in problem-solving behavior exhibited by rats. As this research progressed, we discovered brain plasticity through serendipity. To go back to the start, soon after I arrived at the University of California at Berkeley in 1951, my colleague David Krech asked me to consider with him what might be neural bases of the individual differences in tests of problem-solving behavior he had been finding among rats of inbred strains. As a rat runner of long standing, Krech had been impressed by sizeable individual differences of problem-solving abilities among rats of the same strain, sex, and age. I suggested that we might investigate whether individual differences in cortical acetylcholine metabolism correlated with individual differences in problem-solving ability. Krech turned to his friend Melvin Calvin, head of the campus Laboratory of Chemical Biodynamics, and Calvin agreed to encourage the younger chemists in his laboratory to collaborate with us if the project interested them. In the fall of 1953, I met three chemists for lunch in the faculty club and explained our project. One of them, Edward L. Bennett, decided that it might be interesting to collaborate with psychologists for a few months, and thus began a fruitful collaboration that lasted for more than 40 years. We also benefitted from the continued interest and support of Professor Calvin.
Memory processes can be profoundly affected by life experiences. In particular, stress has proved to be a major modulator of memory function.14 However, we should bear in mind that stress is an extremely wide concept that ranges from situations that require moderate adaptations from the individual to circumstances that can be overwhelmingly adverse and persistent. As can be expected, the impacts of such diverse stressful experiences on cognitive functions are not the same. Whereas moderate stress experienced during learning can facilitate information storage,57 experiencing excessive stress acutely or severe stress chronically can be highly detrimental to memory function. Moreover, substantial evidence indicates that there are important time-windows during the lifespan when experiencing stress can exert an impact on later life including detrimental consequences for cognitive performance during aging. How the two latter stress conditions (chronic stress experienced in adulthood and the developmental effects of stress on the aging process) affect memory function will be the focus of the first part of this chapter. The second part will deal with memory alterations that characterize the aging period. In both parts, phenomenological descriptions of cognitive alterations will be followed by sections dealing with major mechanisms that have been implicated in mediating the described effects of stress or aging.
Learning a new behavior and acquiring information from the environment require that specific patterns of neural activity induced by experience are maintained through plasticity in specific neural networks.1 The persistence of the acquired information depends on how long the plastic changes are preserved. It is believed that persistent forms of synaptic plasticity, including structural synaptic plasticity among others, occur in specific neuronal ensembles, in order to maintain the information in long-term memory. Neural activity leads to a series of molecular events such as the activation of certain neurotransmitter and kinase systems, Ca2+ influx, induction of gene expression, translation and regulation of proteins, and many others that are essential to establish the plastic changes underlying long-term memory. In this chapter I will review some of the molecular events that are relevant for the persistent forms of synaptic plasticity.
Experience-dependent changes in behavior are thought to derive from lasting changes in synaptic strength and neuronal excitability. This chapter attempts an overview of the mechanisms underlying induction and maintenance of long-lasting activity-dependent synaptic modifications as at least one of the key mechanisms by which experiences modify neural circuit behavior. We consider the important yet complex regulation of long-term potentiation and depression by prior synaptic activity as well as the influence of some neurotrophins as regulators of synaptic efficacy crucial issues concerning the contribution of long-lasting forms of synaptic modification to learning and memory.
The taste of food can be memorized after single or repetitive exposures to it, especially when the intake is associated with pleasant or unpleasant consequences to the body. The memory of taste is an important physiological function for organisms, especially for omnivorous animals to expand their repertories of edibles on the bases of their tastes. After acquiring such gustatory memories, we can anticipate the taste of food simply by looking at it. Gustatory memories enable us to generate hallucinations of tastes in the absence of peripheral gustatory inputs. Signals evoked by recalling gustatory memories as well as those from the peripheral gustatory system may play important roles in gustatory information processing.1 One of the most convenient and effective methods that enable the animals to remember tastes is the conditioned taste aversion (CTA) paradigm. CTA is a kind of fear learning established on the basis of association of the quality of the taste of food and post-ingestional malaise.
The vast majority of experiments dealing with the effects on memory of interference with normal activity of the brain support the century-old theory of memory consolidation because of the consistent finding that administration of a variety of treatments shortly after a learning experience produces amnesia. This detrimental effect diminishes as the interval between learning and treatment increases, until the treatments become ineffective. Evidence has accumulated, however, that does not fit the consolidation theory. Treatments that produce amnesia of learning mediated by positive and negative reinforcers become innocuous when the same learning is overtrained. This effect has been found independently of the amnesic agents used and the mode of their administration. Based on the kind of data reviewed in this chapter, two models have been proposed to help explain the protective effect of enhanced training against amnesic treatments. More experiments are under way to test the validity of these models. If the new data are consistent with the predictions that can be derived from these models, then it will be possible to think about the brain as having at least two different ways to store learned information, depending on whether it is dealing with normal or enhanced learning.
Experimental evidence demonstrates intensive and extensive interactions between the nervous and immune systems.14 The central capacity of associating a certain immune response or status (allergen, toxin, antigen) with a specific stimulus (environment or flavor) seems to be of high adaptive value; this special kind of associative learning may have been acquired as an adaptive strategy during evolution in order to protect an organism and/or prepare it for danger. Furthermore, it is possible that, depending on the different environmental challenges, the species formed species-specific associations during evolution.5 Classical conditioning or associative learning is often described as the transfer of the response-eliciting property of a biologically significant stimulus (unconditioned stimulus; US) to another stimulus (conditioned stimulus; CS) without that property.610 This transfer is thought to occur only if the CS serves as a predictor of the US.1113 Thus, classical conditioning can be understood as learning about the temporal or causal relationships between external and internal stimuli, to allow for the appropriate preparatory set of responses before biologically significant events occur. Regarding neuro-immune associative learning (NIAL), an immunomodulatory stimulus (antigen, immunomodulating drug) is employed as an US and paired with a neutral stimulus. After this associative phase, the neutral stimulus becomes a CS that can modify the immune response on demand (conditioned response; CR). The influence of NIAL on immune responses has been reviewed several times.1432 However, in this chapter we propose an innovative approach, pointing out the biological meaning and possible clinical implications of neuro-immune associative learning. Furthermore, after analyzing the available literature, we propose a general theoretical framework for this special kind of associative learning.
Emotionally significant experiences tend to be well remembered.1,2 We know this from personal experiences as well as from extensive research findings. Significant experiences such as birthdays, graduation ceremonies, or the loss of a loved one typically leave lasting and vivid memories. Findings of experimental studies indicate that people have good recollections of where they were and what they were doing when they experienced earthquakes3 or witnessed accidents.4 Similarly, a rat remembers the place in an apparatus where it received a footshock or the location of an escape platform in a tank filled with water.5,6 Such memory enhancement is not limited to experiences that are unpleasant or aversive. Pleasurable events also tend to be well remembered. Our research focuses on understanding the role of emotional responses induced by such arousing experiences in enabling the significance of events to regulate their remembrance. Extensive evidence indicates that stress hormones released from the adrenal glands are critically involved in memory consolidation of emotionally arousing experiences. Epinephrine, glucocorticoids, and specific agonists for their receptors administered after exposure to emotionally arousing experiences enhance the consolidation of long-term memories of these experiences.710 Do stress hormones also enhance memories of experiences that are not emotionally arousing? The findings of recent experiments suggest that this may not be the case. As discussed below, we recently reported that the endogenous glucocorticoid corticosterone enhanced memory consolidation of object recognition training when administered to rats that were emotionally aroused by an unfamiliar training apparatus. However, the treatment had no effect when administered to rats that had extensive prior habituation to the training context in order to reduce novelty-induced arousal.11 In studies of human memory, epinephrine or cortisol treatment also appear to selectively enhance memory for emotionally arousing material.1215 These findings thus provide some important clues concerning the neurobiological mechanism(s) underlying adrenal hormone effects on memory consolidation and suggest that at least some degree of training-associated endogenous emotional arousal is essential for enabling their effects on memory consolidation. Our findings indicate that adrenal stress hormones influence memory consolidation of emotional experiences via interactions with arousal-induced activation of noradrenergic mechanisms within the amygdala.
The advent of human brain imaging techniques (PET, fMRI) has allowed previously unimaginable examination of human brain functions including studies of the mechanisms underlying memory for emotional events. Many of these studies have been guided by findings from animal research that identified the amygdala as a key candidate brain region crucial to emotional memory. Evidence from human brain imaging studies has robustly confirmed this conclusion. At the same time, it has expanded our understanding of emotional memory in unsuspected directions. For example, it is now evident that males and females on average do not process memories of the same emotional events in identical ways. This fact is most clear at present regarding the amygdala, for which a sex by hemisphere interaction in its relation to memory has been documented. Whether and how these sex differences influence what is retained in memories of men and women from emotional events is now an important area of research. The evidence to date also makes clear that the long standing and still widespread assumption that subject sex matters little if at all in studies of the neurobiology of emotional memory is no longer tenable and should be abandoned.
For a long time, consolidation was seen as a process achieved only on newly acquired memories aimed to store them for the long term. However, pioneer and recent studies have demonstrated that after retrieval, long-term memories may once more undergo a consolidation-like process referred to as reconsolidation. Mainly, reconsolidation is sustained by the now widely reported observation that after a memory trace is activated by means of retrieval and is susceptible to disruption by the same treatments that disrupt memory during consolidation. However, the functional purpose of this process is still a matter of debate. Recent evidence indicates that reconsolidation is indeed a process by which updated information is integrated through the synthesis of proteins to a memory trace. Hence, the so-called reconsolidation seems more like an updating consolidation intended to modify retrieved memory by a process that integrates updated experience into long-term memory. Through this process, previously consolidated memory is partially destabilized. By the infusion of disrupting agents, it appears as if the process is intended to consolidate memory again. In this chapter, we discuss this issue and propose that updating consolidation is a more descriptive term for this process.
A comprehensive, multidisciplinary review, Neural Plasticity and Memory: From Genes to Brain Imaging provides an in-depth, up-to-date analysis of the study of the neurobiology of memory. Leading specialists share their scientific experience in the field, covering a wide range of topics where molecular, genetic, behavioral, and brain imaging techniques have been used to investigate how cellular and brain circuits may be modified by experience. In each chapter, researchers present findings and explain their innovative methodologies. Interdisciplinary reviews focus on how nerve cell circuitry, molecular expression, neurotransmitter release, and electrical activity are modified during the acquisition and consolidation of long-term memory. The book also covers receptor activation/deactivation by different neurotransmitters that enable the intracellular activation of second messengers during memory formation. It concludes with a summary of current research on the modulation and regulation that different neurotransmitters and stress hormones have on formation and consolidation of memory.
The fundamental problem of whether learning-dependent morphological malleability is related to long-lasting memory, as originally articulated by Cajal and Hebb, remains a galvanizing issue in neuroscience. In 1906, Ramon y Cajal1 stated that  new pathways are established through continued branching and growth of dendritic and axonal arborizations. The hypothesis that new communication pathways  only takes place after long efforts requiring attention and reflection, as well as the reorganization of mnemonic areas (p. 724). Hebb2 espoused a similar view, noting that the increased efficacy of synapses was likely due to growth or metabolic change that would take place at the synapse in one or both cells (p. 62). While there is an emphasis on changes occurring at both the pre- (axonal) and post-(dendritic) synaptic components following learning in both passages, the question remains whether the data truly support these theories.
Midbrain dopamine (DA) neurons of the substantia nigra (SN, A9) and adjacent ventral tegmental area (VTA, A10) are critical to a range of CNS functions, including motor facilitation by the basal ganglia and the regulation of motivation by natural rewards as well as by drugs of addiction. A characteristic shared by DA cells in the SN and VTA is that they release DA locally from somatodendritic regions [14] as well as from their axonal projections. There is evidence for release from soma [5] as well as from dendrites [2,6]. Somatodendritic release of neurotransmitter is not restricted to DA neurons; rather, neurons found throughout the brain can signal via the somatodendritic release of neurotransmitters, including GABA and glutamate as well as neuropeptides [7,8]. Somatodendritic neurotransmission operates both at a synaptic level and by more paracrine/autocrine-like modes to offer neuronal cross-talk as well as self- or auto-feedback control [7,8]. This chapter will focus specifically on the somatodendritic release of DA within the midbrain and how voltammetric methods, particularly fast-scan cyclic voltammetry (FCV), have been used to explore its characteristics.
The methodology for using chronoamperometry to measure transporter-mediated uptake into synaptosomes is described here. Alterations in uptake in brain tissue from mice lacking one or both (SERT/) intact copies of the SERT gene are detailed and compared with previous studies using either radiometric methods in synaptosomes [38] or chronoamperometry in vivo [61]. The factors underlying the discrepancies between the results of radiochemical and chronoamperometric serotonin uptake experiments are also explored. We show that oxygen saturation of the assay buffer greatly influences clearance rates and that a clear incremental relationship exists between serotonin transporter gene expression and serotonin uptake rates [65,66]. We have discovered that mechanical disruption of synaptosomes by stirring or filtration leads to significant loss of transported serotonin resulting in misleadingly low maximal uptake rates (V max) and transporter substrate affinities (K m), as well as a loss of sensitivity for determining biologically important alterations in uptake rates [66]. Finally, we show how chronoamperometry has been used to determine decreases in dopamine uptake in striatal synaptosomes prepared from a transgenic mouse model expressing a mutant form of human -synuclein, which is associated with a hyperactive phenotype [16].
Scientists have proposed potentiometric SECM with ion-selective microelectrodes as scanning probes aimed at the determination of the local activity of a number of ions including protons, chloride, sodium, potassium, and calcium [6065]. All of these ions are of physiological importance and, although not shown to date, assessing their local concentrations in vicinity of individual living cells with scanned H(+) -, Na(+) -, K(+) -, Ca(2+) - or Cl() -selective tips could be attractive. However, this review focuses on the latest efforts in developing amperometric SECM into a high-resolution electrochemical imaging tool applicable for research and development in the field of neuroscience, with special emphasis given to the local amperometric detection of chemical secretion from single secretory cells. In order to help understand the method, this chapter will first introduce the relevant features of the amperometric microelectrodes and the basic operational principles and technical concept of SECM including the amperometric feedback and the generator collector mode of imaging. Taking into account the fragile nature of soft living cells, this chapter will discuss the limitations of the ordinary constant-height mode of SECM and present approaches for establishing a constant-distance mode. Only by using SECM in constant-distance mode, the SECM tip is forced to carefully follow the contours of the cell throughout scanning to avoid damaging the tip and the investigated biological sample. Finally, this section will present selected examples of single-cell SECM studies, which highlight the potential impact of this modern electrochemical assay in neurochemistry.
The extracellular space (ECS) may be imagined as a system of interconnected channels demarcated by cellular membranes (Figure 10.1) and filled with an ionic solution, primarily NaCl, along with macromolecules of the extracellular matrix, negatively-charged proteoglycans and glycosaminoglycans (Margolis and Margolis 1993; Ruoslahti 1996; Novak and Kaye 2000). The ECS mediates intercellular communication (Nicholson 1979) and the transport of nutrients and metabolites (Sykov et al. 2000), and it forms a reservoir of ions that establishes the resting potentials of cells and mediate fluxes across the membranes. It also may serve to deliver therapeutic substances to cells (Ulbrich et al. 1997; Saltzman 2001). All these processes are primarily mediated by diffusion. The ECS diffusive properties are thus critical for neurotransmission over short and long distances (the latter being called volume transmission, Fuxe and Agnati 1991; Agnati et al. 2000), neurotrophic effects, general electrical activity, basic cellular homeostasis, and drug delivery. This chapter will introduce the brain ECS, describe techniques and preparations most commonly used to measure diffusion properties together with relevant theory and software for data analysis, review selected findings, demonstrate the utility of mathematical modeling and computer simulations, and outline some future directions for research.
Fast scan cyclic voltammetry (FSCV) is an electrochemical technique that can be used to monitor release and uptake dynamics of endogenous monoamine levels both in vitro [13] and in vivo [46]. Fast scan cyclic voltammetry is able to measure the three major monoamine neurotransmitters, dopamine (DA), serotonin (5-HT), and norepinephrine (NE), because these substances can be oxidized at low voltages, providing selective electrochemical detection based on voltage-dependent oxidation and reduction processes. Briefly, a voltage that is sufficient to oxidize monoamines is applied to a carbon fiber microelectrode. The oxidation process results in current flow at the electrode surface; the amount of current is converted into concentration of monoamine in the vicinity of the electrode tip by means of calibration in a flow injection system. The current is measured rapidly, every 100 ms, and when plotted against time, can provide information as to how, for example, stimulation parameters and pharmacological agents can alter the dynamics of the monoamine released near the surface of the electrode. Ultimately, these measurements make it possible to distinguish kinetic parameters for release and uptake processes, a distinguishing feature of electrochemical techniques like FSCV. This chapter is designed to describe the use of FSCV to measure DA and 5-HT in mouse brain slices.
A new instrument for the monitoring and control of neural activity is described in this chapter. The novel characteristic, wireless communication, confers several advantages. Most revolve around freeing the animal from the cable tether linking animal and recording equipment in traditional, hardwired set-ups. The new instrument, called real-time animal telemetry or RAT, was initially developed to support fast-scan cyclic voltammetry (FSCV) at a carbon-fiber microelectrode (CFM). Hence, a large portion of the background section of this chapter is dedicated to this voltammetric microsensor technique for chemical monitoring. We are also working towards the goal of incorporating other microelectrode approaches into RAT, such as, electrophysiology for measuring bioelectric signals and potentiometry for measuring ions. In theory, RAT could accommodate any sensing technology that transduces the input signal into a voltage signal. While RAT was also developed to support electrical stimulation for focally controlling neural activity, it should be possible to incorporate other methods for this purpose as well. Before the actual description of the wireless instrument, a brief primer on telemetry is presented, along with an abbreviated review of existing wireless instruments for neural monitoring and control.
Dopamine (DA) was discovered as the precursor of the neurotransmitter norepinephrine in 1957 (Montagu 1957). Carlsson demonstrated that DA levels in the striatum were much higher than in the rest of the brain despite its low level of norepinephrine, suggesting that DA was not merely a norepinephrine precursor but was itself a neurotransmitter (1959) (Carlsson 1959). Subsequently, DAs role as a neurotransmitter has been confirmed and populations of DA neurons have been identified in various regions of the central nervous system (olfactory bulb, substantia nigra, ventral tegmental area, and the retina) and the periphery (enteric nervous system of the gut). These neurons are involved in modulating intestinal motility, the sense of smell, light sensitivity, and control of fine motor movements. They are also integral to higher brain functions such as salience, euphoria, pleasure and appetitive and consummatory aspects of reward. Their demise or dysfunction plays vital roles in neuropathologies such as Parkinsons disease, schizophrenia and depression. Thus, understanding how DA neurons function normally in neurotransmission and in pathological processes is essential for elucidating their roles in behavior and disease.
In the peripheral and central nervous systems, neurotransmission is achieved by the release of neurotransmitters from nerve terminals into the extracellular fluid bathing postsynaptic receptors. Therefore, locally monitoring neurotransmitters in the extracellular fluid is an important technical goal. Because neurotransmission in the brain is a rapid process, with the transfer of chemical messages between neurons occurring in milliseconds, monitoring techniques that provide high temporal resolution are especially significant. Dopamine (DA) is an important neurotransmitter in several structures of the central nervous system such as the striatum, which contains the highest density of dopaminergic terminals. Since the 1970s, two main approaches to monitoring DA in the extracellular fluid have been developed: in vivo microdialysis and various in vivo electrochemical techniques. Electrochemical techniques can be used to monitor DA because the DA molecule is easily oxidized at the surface of carbon electrodes. Among the electrochemical techniques, continuous amperometry provides the fastest available temporal response with a low selectivity for DA over other oxidizable molecules. This chapter explains how to take advantage of the high temporal resolution of continuous amperometry while simultaneously avoiding the potential pitfalls associated with its low selectivity.
Dopamine concentrations in the striatum of rats fluctuate during significant behavioral and pharmacological events, such as copulation and administration of addictive drugs. These changes have traditionally been measured in awake animals using microdialysis with offline electrochemical analysis (Westerink 1995). Microdialysis integrates the dopamine signal over space and time. Typically, the dialysis probe is 12 mm long and dialysate samples are collected over 515 min. However, many of the behavioral or environmental events at which dopamine release is expected occur on a much faster timescale than microdialysate sampling. Fast-scan cyclic voltammetry (FSCV) measures dopamine concentrations in much smaller spatial and temporal dimensions: typically at approximately 6 m100 m cylindrical electrodes and sampling every 100 ms. Thirteen years after FSCV was used to monitor electrically-evoked dopamine release in anesthetized rats (Stamford et al. 1984; Millar et al. 1985), the method was used to detect discrete, naturally occurring dopamine signals in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) shell of awake rats during behavior (Rebec et al. 1997). In parallel, detection limits for in vivo voltammetric methods have improved from 5 M (Ewing, Bigelow, and Wightman 1983) to less than 20 nM (Cheer et al. 2004; Stuber et al. 2005). As a result, several papers have now documented dopamine concentration transients in response to a variety of behavioral and pharmacological events.
DAT is found exclusively in DA neurons [18,19], in which it is functional only when expressed at the plasma membrane. Electron microscopic studies revealed that plasma membrane DAT is localized both near and distant from synaptic junctions [19]. Based on its perisynaptic/extrasynaptic localization, one might think that DAT is not all that important. However, the marked behavioral effects of DAT inhibitors and the results with the DAT KO mice argue otherwise. Also, in release assays using rat striatal slices, inclusion of a DAT inhibitor such as nomifensine in the superfusion buffer is required to detect endogenous DA overflow following mild electrical field stimulation [20]. In the past ten years, it has been appreciated that transporters such as DAT are highly regulated [2125]. This regulation provides additional evidence for their importance. Regulation may occur rapidly (minutes) or long-term (days to weeks). Mechanisms for rapid regulation include altered DAT kinetics, presumably because of post-translational modifications and conformational changes in the transporter molecule, and DAT trafficking, because of changes in the number of DATs expressed at the plasma membrane. At least in model expression systems, DAT constitutively traffics in a clathrin-mediated manner away from and back to the cell surface, providing an ideal mechanism for rapid regulation [26]. Substrates, inhibitors, ligands acting through presynaptic receptors, and other signaling molecules also rapidly regulate DAT; this often occurs via altered trafficking. One of the main challenges for the future is to develop methods for studying rapid regulation of DAT function in individual neurons, as well as in the intact brain. Disease states and chronic drug administration can also regulate DAT activity over days to weeks. This type of regulation is most often associated with changes in the number of functional DATs; however, whether this is because of alterations in transporter trafficking, turnover (synthesis/degradation rates), or both remains to be elucidated. Because DA is electroactive, electrochemical methods provide valuable ways of measuring real-time DAT function, most often by determining the clearance of DA by DAT. Before we discuss our electrochemical approach for measuring DA clearance, however, we first mention briefly some of the non-electrochemical approaches used to measure DAT number and function.
Tremendous advances in the approach to single cell studies has occurred in the past two decades. Electrophysiology has been dominated by the powerful derivatives of the original patch clamp technique, addressing the biophysics of single channels or whole cells [2]. Imaging has advanced our understanding of architectural dynamics and intracellular ion activities [3,4]. Indeed, the success of the latter displaced the use of intracellular, chemically-selective electrodes where voltage changes and competing ions make the technique difficult and the interpretation complex. Despite these limitations, electrochemical sensors have continued to demonstrate strength and versatility when applied to the external boundary layers of single cells and tissues. For example, Travis and Wightman [5] demonstrated a correlation between vesicle fusion and cell capacitance for dopamine release. In addition, scientists used electrochemistry of 5-HT and histamine to study quantal corelease [6]. Both of these examples require the placement of a carbon fiber, amperometric microelectrode, in close apposition to the plasma membrane where strong electrochemical signals can be derived over low background. These cases are special in that a discrete cellular event carries a clear electrochemically detectable, phasic, signal into the boundary layer. However, all cells modify the diffusive boundary layers because of physiology, for example transporter activities or respiration. These signals can be weak and often imposed on top of significant background levels of the same chemicaloxygen and calcium flux detection are examples. Problems in measuring changes of such chemical signals are further compounded by the instability of any electrode design. How can these limitations be overcome to make boundary layer measurements with high temporal and spatial fidelity? This chapter proposes two approaches to making measurements in the boundary layer. Firstly, the gradient can be constrained by a restrictive space, effectively amplifying and defining the signal to be detected. Secondly, detection can be coupled directly to the chemical gradients radiating into or out of the cell. Two elegant examples of the first approach are available. Poitry et al. sought to measure the oxygen consumption and nucleotide levels, under closely matching conditions, for single cells [7]. To acquire the oxygen levels, they captured single rod photoreceptorsin glass micropipettes such that they lodged approximately 10 m from the tip. Next, they inserted a Whalen-style oxygen electrode [8] through the pipette tip and measured oxygen consumption in a static configuration. Kang and Hilgemann [9] recently published results from a similar approach, but for the study of the Na(+) /Ca(2+) exchanger in a cardiac muscle macropatch. Here an ion-selective electrode (ISE) was advanced into the body of a pipette supporting the macropatch. As the pipette geometry could be precisely modeled, Kang and Hilgemann were able to derive the stochiometry of this electroneutral transporter [9].
In this chapter, we present some findings that extend our previous studies of voltammetry near microdialysis probes. A variable that is considered important in microdialysis protocols is the time after implantation before results are collected. Our previous work has used a 2 h wait after implantation, which is very different from the 24 h wait that is conventional. Because these experiments are performed in anesthetized animals, a 24 h wait time is difficult. But, we have examined a 16 h wait time. Also, our previous work has placed a great deal of emphasis on the ability of dopamine uptake to prevent dopamine from reaching microdialysis probes by diffusion. This is based on observations of the effect of the dopamine uptake inhibitor, nomifensine, on voltammetric recordings near microdialysis probes. So, here we report results from other drugs that increase dopamine levels by mechanisms other than uptake inhibition.
This chapter will provide an overview of radio frequency (RF) telemetry systems by examining the design requirements of two contrasting systems: a wireless system designed to support Fast Scan Cyclic Voltammetry (FSCV) and a wireless system designed to support selective biosensors. Traditionally, RF design and analog circuit design were very complicated endeavors. Component interactions and non-ideal behaviors made such designs as much art as science. Today however, there are a wide variety of analog integrated circuits with near ideal behavior, and self-contained RF modules with built-in standardized protocols are available. In short, it is now very possible for a neuroscientist, with little or no knowledge of telemetry, to design and construct robust wireless acquisition systems. In addition, there are a wide variety of commercial implants available for identification and physiological monitoring in animals. Currently available wireless implants can measure activity, core temperature, blood pressure, heart rate, blood flow, pH, biopotentials Electrocardiography (ECG), Electroencephalography (EEG), Electromyography (EMG) and respiratory rate [1]. Major suppliers include Data Sciences International (www.datasci.com), Biomedic Data Systems (www.bmds.com), and Respironics (www.minimitter.com). Most of these systems use some form of inductive power and telemetry, very low power transmitters or both. That is, these devices normally use proprietary low power analog transmitters that can only communicate over short distances, and in some cases the power required to operate the device is derived from RF energy transmitted from the receiver (Reader) to the device. A wide and impressive variety of Application Specific Integrated Circuits (ASIC) has also been developed. Mohensi et al. provide an excellent overview of current systems [2]. The goal of this chapter is simply to provide an overview based on familiar examples in the hope that this will help the reader to make informed decisions, whether building or buying telemetry based systems. To that end, we will consider the design of a digital wireless FSCV system for the measurement of electroactive species such as dopamine, and a biosensor based digital wireless system.
Serotonin (5-HT) regulates many complex behaviors and physiological functions. These include mood, sleep, feeding and thermoregulation, to name but a few. As a result, dysregulation of 5-HT neurotransmission can have severe consequences. For example, reduced serotonin neurotransmission is thought to underlie such affective disorders as depression and anxiety (Owens and Nemeroff 1994; Nemeroff and Owens 2004) and predispose to addictive disorders such as alcoholism (McBride et al. 1993; Virkkunen and Linnoila 1997). In addition, the hyperserotonergic state resulting from high doses of substituted amphetamines such as 3,4- methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA, Ecstasy) contributes to the serotonin syndrome, symptoms of which include agitation, high body temperature, tachycardia, convulsions, coma, and in some cases death (Hegadoren et al. 1999; Green et al. 2003). Given the clear importance of maintaining homeostatic 5-HT neurotransmission, the regulation of extracellular concentration of 5-HT has been the focus of intense study for the past several decades. The principle mechanism for terminating the neurochemical actions of 5-HT released from nerve terminals is its high affinity uptake from extracellular fluid by the serotonin transporter (5-HTT; SERT). Consequently, since this transporter was first identified in the brain (Shaskan and Snyder 1970; Kuhar et al. 1972), it has been studied extensively (Fuller and Wong 1990; Blakely et al. 1991; Rudnick and Wall 1993; Bengel et al. 1998; Blakely et al. 1998; Kilic et al. 2003). Until relatively recently, active uptake of 5-HT by its transporter has been studied using in vitro techniques such as [(3)H]5-HT uptake into brain synaptosomes (Shaskan and Snyder 1970; Kokoshka et al. 1998) or into cells transfected with the 5-HTT (Wall et al. 1995; Ramamoorthy and Blakely 1999; Zhu et al. 2005). However, modern voltammetric technologies that stemmed from the pioneering work of Ralph Adams in the 1970s (Kissinger et al. 1973) have allowed 5-HTT function to be measured in vivo. Herein we describe applications of high-speed chronoamperometry, an amperometric technique, to study 5-HTT function in vivo as well as to identify alternative mechanisms for 5-HT clearance from extracellular fluid.
Ascorbate, the deprotonated form of ascorbic acid, or vitamin C, is an ideal substance for detection by in vivo voltammetry. As an antioxidant, ascorbate readily gives up electrons, a fundamental requirement for voltammetric detection. In addition, the principal target of voltammetric studies is the extra-cellular fluid of the brain where ascorbate exists in plentiful amounts. In fact, the extracellular concentration of brain ascorbate is much higher than that of most other molecules of interest, making it relatively easy to detect and to monitor over time. A related point is that the level of extracellular brain ascorbate is not static but fluctuates with behavior, and there is mounting evidence that these fluctuations are related to the release of glutamate, an amino acid transmitter responsible for most neuronal excitations. In short, an understanding of ascorbate fluctuations is likely to reveal important information about how the brain operates. From the very beginning, however, voltammetry was aimed at studying the catecholamine and indoleamine transmitters. Not only were they, like ascorbate, easily oxidizable but also they appeared to play critical roles in such fundamental functions as attention, cognition, mood, motivation, and motor control. Indeed, these transmitters, collectively known as the mono-amines, have been the center of neurochemical attention since the 1950s. And so, when Ralph Adams and colleagues first used voltammetric techniques to study brain chemistry, the monoamines were a key target [1,2]. Ascorbate, far from being a molecule of interest, gained recognition, instead, as an interferent anion. Its high extracellular concentration, at more than 1000 times that of the monoamines, complicated monoamine detection. Strategies soon were developed to improve monoamine selectivity and, when applied carefully and appropriately, as described in other chapters in this volume, they helped launch a new appreciation of the complex role that the monoamines play in shaping brain function. But ascorbate, too, has had a renaissance in neuroscience because of voltammetry. Improvements in electrochemical detection have made it possible to study ascorbate independently of other oxidizable molecules and have suggested functions well beyond those of a simple antioxidant. Other experimental approaches have begun to confirm an expanded role for brain ascorbate. Slowly but steadily, ascorbate has been gaining respect as a versatile molecule linked to the extracellular modulation of glutamate and, coming full-circle, perhaps the monoamines as well. This chapter focuses on how voltammetry helped to shape the ascorbate renaissance.
Electrochemistry in ultra-small environments has emerged as an increasingly important technique for fundamental studies of diffusionally restricted reactions, low sample volume analysis, and single cell neurochemistry. Development of electrochemical methods for detection of neurotransmitters began with the ground-breaking work of Adams [1] and has progressed to the point where it is now possible to detect the release of a neurotransmitter from a single vesicle, first demonstrated in the seminal work by Wightman and co-workers [2,3]. In the pioneering experiments, a carbon fiber electrode 5 m in diameter was placed adjacent to a bovine adrenal chromaffin cell isolated in a culture dish, and the cell was stimulated to release either by chemical or mechanical means. Understanding the chemistry and structure of single cells is an area of great interest in the biological and medical sciences. Indeed, books have been written on this broad topic [4]. In neuroscience, knowledge of the chemical composition and dynamics of single nerve cells should lead to better models of the cellular neurotransmission process. The key dynamic event in neuronal communication is exocytosis. This is a process that has been investigated extensively for several decades [5,6]. The process of exocytosis can be summarized as the docking of vesicles (storage compartments) to the cell membrane and subsequent release of the contents by fusion of the vesicle and cell membranes. This process allows the conversion of an electrical signal (action potential) to a chemical signal (messenger release and receptor recognition), which is necessary for exocytotic communication between cells. Methods to observe and quantify individual exocytotic events have traditionally revolved around electron microscopy and patch-clamp capacitance measurements [7]. In 1990, Wightman and co-workers showed that they could directly monitor individual exocytotic events involving easily oxidized messengers and occurring on the millisecond time scale by use of amperometric measurements at microelectrodes [3]. This was first applied by Wightmans group to adrenal chromaffin cells [2], and later by Nehers group [8]. This chapter will focus on the development of electrochemical and related methods to analyze exocytosis events at cells, as well as artificial cells. These methods, emphasizing amperometry at microelectrodes, will be reviewed in terms of different cell types examined and discussed for representative and specific studies of neuroscience.
L-Glutamate is the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the mammalian central nervous system (CNS) and is implicated in a number of brain disorders including Parkinsons disease (PD), cognitive disturbances, epilepsy, schizophrenia, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and drug abuse. While microdialysis methods have been used extensively over the last decade to investigate minute-by-minute measures of L-glutamate, the rapid time dynamics of L-glutamate signaling in the CNS has warranted a technique to measure L-glutamate release on a second-by- second basis. A major goal of the research is to develop a recording technology for recording second-by-second measurements of L-glutamate and other neurotransmittersspecifically a mass-fabricated microelectrode technology that could be (1) mass produced such that other laboratories could utilize the same recording technology and (2) configured for self-referencing recordings, which allows for second-by-second cross-checking of the selectivity of the micro-electrode measures and improved signal-to-noise of the recording methods. The present chapter documents current capabilities of measuring L-glutamate and several other neurotransmitters on a second-by-second basis using mass-fabricated microelectrode arrays formed on ceramic. While not a comprehensive assessment of the technology, this chapter contains a large amount of information regarding the fabrication, use, and potential pitfalls of this technology. The reader should refer to numerous articles [16] for additional details regarding measuring neurotransmitters in the CNS.
Nitric oxide (NO) is a hydrophobic, highly labile free radical that is catalytically produced in biological systems from the reduction of l-arginine by nitric oxide synthase (NOS) to form l-citrulline, which produces NO in the process. In biological systems NO has long been known to play various roles in physiology, pathology and pharmacology [1]. In 1987, NO was identified as being responsible for the physiological actions of endothelium-derived relaxing factor (EDRF) [2]. Since that discovery, NO has been shown to be involved in numerous biological processes such as: vasodilatation and molecular messaging [2], penile erection [3], neurotransmission [4,5], inhibition of platelet aggregation [6], blood pressure regulation [7], immune response [8], and as a mediator in a wide range of both anti-tumor and anti-microbial activities [9,10]. In addition, NO has been implicated in a number of diseases including: diabetes [11], Parkinsons and Alzheimers diseases [12]. The importance of NO was confirmed in 1992 when Science Magazine declared NO the Molecule of the Year and in 1998, when F. Furchgott, Louis J. Ignarro, and Ferid Murad were awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology and Medicine for unraveling the complex nature of this simple molecule. Despite the obvious importance of NO in so many biological processes, less than 10% of the thousands of scientific publications over the last decade dedicated to the field of NO research involved its direct measurement. As stated above, NO plays a significant role in a variety of biological processes where its spatial and temporal concentration is of extreme importance. However, the measurement of NO is quite difficult due to its short half-life (~ 5 s) and high reactivity with other biological components such as: superoxide, oxygen, thiols and others. To date, several techniques have been developed for the measurement of NO including: chemiluminescence [13,14], Griess method [15], paramagnetic resonance spectrometry [16], paramagnetic resonance imaging, spectrophotometry [17], and bioassay [18]. Each of these techniques has certain benefits associated with it, but suffer from poor sensitivity and the need for complex and often expensive experimental apparatus. In addition, the above NO sensing techniques are limited when it comes to continuous monitoring of NO concentration in real-time and most importantly in vivo. To date, electrochemical (amperometric) detection of NO is the only available technique sensitive enough to detect relevant concentrations of NO in real-time and in vivo, and suffers minimally from potential interfering species such as: nitrite, nitrate, dopamine, ascorbate, and l-arginine. Also, because electrodes can be made on the micro and nano-scale, these techniques also have the benefit of being able to measure NO concentrations in living systems without any significant effects from electrode insertion. The first amperometric NO electrode used for direct measurement was described in 1990 [19]. In 1992, World Precision Instruments Inc. (WPI) developed the first commercial NO sensor system called the ISO-NO. Over subsequent years a range of highly specialized and sensitive NO electrodes have been developed offering detection limits for NO ranging from below 1 nM up to 100 M [20]. Most recently, a unique range of high sensitivity NO sensors based on a membrane coated activated carbon microelectrode, with diameters ranging from 200 m down to 100 nm, have been developed by this lab. These electrodes exhibit superior performance during NO measurement and feature a detection limit of less than 0.5 nM NO.
The studies described here demonstrate that the electrochemical measurements at microelectrodes are methods of high interest for studying biological processes implicating superoxide and/or nitric oxide and their derivatives. The advantages of the electrochemical analysis over other biophysical methods include the possible direct detection, the fast response-time and selectivity of the sensors, and, above all, a single cell analysis. Clearly, when the microelectrode surface can be positioned at close distance to the cell (or the biological source), i.e., in an artificial synapse configuration, the infinitely low amplitude of the biological information can even so be detected and studied. Future developments of the electrochemical methodologies for studies of oxidative stress processes should focus on (1) the improvement of microelectrodes selectivity for each ROS and RNS of interest; (2) multiple analysis on several cells or of several species done in parallel by several electrodes eventually integrated into microsystems; (3) intracellular measurements owing to nanometer size electrodes; (4) detection of a single molecule activity such as the one of an enzymatic system generating O2 () or NO() , possibly located into the cell cytosol or the cell membrane.
We developed patch amperometry, a new technique that combines high-resolution cell-attached capacitance measurements with simultaneous amperometric detection by placing the amperometric electrode inside the patch pipette. For this purpose we designed a new electrode holder, which accommodates the connections for two electrodes and has the capability to change the position of the CFE tip versus the pipette tip. The method makes it possible to determine vesicular concentrations, to distinguish transient and full fusion events, and to analyze individual fusion pore openings and the role of the fusion pore in limiting release. While it is now clear how the size of the fusion pore determines release from chromafin granules during the amperometric foot signal, it is not yet well understood what determines the shape of the spike after the fusion pore expansion. After the fusion pore dilates, the molecules are released rapidly, giving rise to the amperometric spike. It is likely that in this phase release is not hindered by the fusion pore restriction any longer. The vesicular contents should be able to diffuse freely to the detector. However, when a CFE is placed very close to the cell surface, spikes are broader than expected from diffusion theory if the release giving rise to the amperometric spike were instantaneous [1820,36,37]. Using patch amperometry it was shown that in mast cells the upstroke of the amperometric spike is not limited by the fusion pore [35]. It is widely believed that the time course of the amperometric spike reflects dissociation of bound molecules from the matrix followed by diffusion to the CFE. However, recent amperometric measurements from chromaffin cells using four-electrode electrochemical detector arrays have suggested that diffusion near the membrane is very slow, presumably due to reversible binding of catecholamines to the cell surface [22]. Whether a larger fusion pore in chromaffin cells is also participating in limiting release during the amperometric spike is still to be answered.
In this chapter, we will discuss various methodological considerations for the use of in vitro voltammetric recording in brain slices, which will indicate the types of questions that these methods are best suited to address. In addition, we will review evidence that H2O2 is a diffusible messenger that mediates glutamate-dependent inhibition of DA release in dorsolateral striatum, based on data obtained using fast-scan cyclic voltammetry (FCV) with carbon-fiber microelectrodes in brain slices [9,10]. These studies also indicate the mechanism of release suppression, which is the activation of ATP-sensitive potassium (KATP) channels. Companion electrophysiological studies show that H2O2 also regulates the spontaneous activity of DA neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) via KATP channels [11], consistent with the apparently abundant expression of these channels throughout the nigrostriatal pathway [1214]. Together, these studies illustrate how voltammetric methods in brain slices, both alone and in combination with companion techniques, can be used to address important questions in neuroscience.
With contributions from pioneers in the field, Electrochemical Models for Neuroscience lays the scientific foundation for incorporating electrochemcial techniques, tested protocols, and tricks-of-the-trade into ongoing or newly emerging research programs in the neuroscience disciplines. It explores the latest methodologies including continuous amperometry, fast scan cyclic voltammetry, high-speed chronoamperometry, ion-selective microelectrodes, enzyme based microelectrodes, and in vivo voltammetry with telemetry. The text also introduces emerging concepts in the field such as the correlation of electrochemical recordings with information obtained from patch clamp, electrophysiological, and behavioral techniques.
Electrochemical methods comprise a collection of extremely useful measurement tools for neuroscience. A central feature of these methods is an electrode that provides a surface or interface where some form of a charge-transfer process occurs. This charge-transfer process gives rise to potentials and/or currents that can be measured and related either by theory or by calibration to the concentration of substances in the solution that bathes the electrode. Broadly speaking, these methods can be divided into two groups: measurements that do not involve current, known generally as potentiometric methods, and measurements that involve current flow at an electrode under potential control, known as amperometry, voltammetry, or polarography, depending upon the details of the experimental design. Amperometric and voltammetric methods are the main, but not exclusive, focus of this book. It is completely natural that neuroscientists should find electrochemical methods of value because the nervous system contains numerous electrochemically detectable targets including simple inorganic ions, catecholamine and indolamine neurotransmitters and their metabolites, glutamate, nitric oxide (NO), glucose, lactate, ascorbate, urate, hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), oxygen (O2), and pH. Moreover, the high ionic strength of biological environments creates a perfect milieu for electrochemistry, which requires conductive media. This chapter briefly introduces the history of amperometry and voltammetry in the neurosciences and briefly surveys their applications. Although not intended as a thorough explanation of the methods themselves, the chapter provides a tutorial and primer on their basic operating principles and points the interested reader to sources of more detailed information.
Aging-related cognitive decline has enormous, tangible costs to national and family health care. The intangible costs are equally detrimental and include decreased quality of life as well as diminished ability to function in and contribute to society. Earlier studies have documented increased difficulties for the elderly on a variety of mental tasks. For example, neuropsychological assessment revealed that after the age of 60, people often have impairments in certain types of memory, particularly recall of recent events (i.e., episodic memory) [1]. A progressive decrease in cognitive ability with advancing age has been well documented not only in humans, but also in rodent models. A clear understanding of the neural changes that accompany aging-related cognitive declines in animal models will aid in the development of strategies to prevent, and therapies to ameliorate, the progression of cognitive decline in the elderly. Although the definition of cognitive function can be broad, including learning and memory, attention, mood, motivation, and planning, the present discussion concentrates on the changes in the cognitive ability most closely associated with the hippocampus. The anatomical, physiological, and biochemical changes in the hippocampus that may contribute to those cognitive abilities also are evaluated. In this chapter, we will first provide the behavioral evidence characterizing the aging-related decline in performance on hippocampus-dependent tasks in rodent models. We will then consider the aging-related anatomical, physiological, and biochemical changes that occur in the whole hippocampus, as well as in hippocampal subregions. Taken together, the available data suggest that subtle changes in synaptic composition and function, rather than a significant loss of neurons or synapses, are the critical underlying factors for aging-related cognitive decline. The potential for factors such as insulin-like growth factor 1, estrogen, or caloric restriction to impact those aging-related synaptic changes also are considered.
Modern molecular and cellular approaches to neuroscience have enabled the initiation of high throughput analysis of aging processes that occur within the central nervous system (CNS). To evaluate molecular events associated with aging in animal models and human postmortem tissues, microarray studies and other downstream genetic analyses are performed at the regional and cellular levels to characterize transcriptional patterns, or mosaics, that may provide clues into some of the mechanism(s) that drive senescence. This chapter reviews experimental and analytical issues associated with high throughput genomic analyses in the aging brain within the context of current datasets using several different aging paradigms. An overriding goal is to apply functional genomics- and proteomics-based approaches to aging research, in an effort to develop useful biomarkers of specific aging processes for eventual pharmacotherapeutic development and disease prevention.
As people age, they change in a myriad of ways  both biological and psychological. Some of these changes may be for the better, and others are not. This book primarily concerns the normally aging brain, the neuroanatomical and neurophysiological changes that occur with age, and the mechanisms that account for them. It is not primarily about the behavioral or cognitive concomitants of those changes. Nevertheless, there is ample evidence that alterations in brain structure and function are intimately tied to alterations in cognitive function. The complexity of both the neural and cognitive functions, however, makes exact mapping between brain and behavior extraordinarily difficult, and so these relations remain largely speculative, although ultimately testable. Establishing such links between brain and cognition is the principal goal of cognitive neuroscience. The purpose of this chapter is to outline the changes in cognition that occur in normal human aging, in an effort to provide a backdrop against which neural changes can be interpreted (for review, see [1]). Although the relationship between brain and cognition is a dynamic one and may change across the lifespan, changes in these two domains will ultimately be related, and mechanisms underlying the changes will be discovered. Understanding age-related cognitive change will help focus and constrain neurobiological theories of aging in much the same way as theories of cognitive aging will be adapted to take account of new findings about the aging brain. Just as age-related changes in brain structure and function are not uniform across the whole brain or across individuals, age-related changes in cognition are not uniform across all cognitive domains or across all older individuals. The basic cognitive functions most affected by age are attention and memory. Neither of these are unitary functions, however, and evidence suggests that some aspects of attention and memory hold up well with age while others show significant declines. Perception (although considered by many to be a precognitive function) also shows significant age-related declines attributable mainly to declining sensory capacities. Deficits at these early processing stages could affect cognitive functions later in the processing stream. Higher-level cognitive functions such as language processing and decision making may also be affected by age. These tasks naturally rely on more basic cognitive functions and will generally show deficits to the extent that those fundamental processes are impaired. Moreover, complex cognitive tasks may also depend on a set of executive functions, which manage and coordinate the various components of the tasks. Considerable evidence points to impairment of executive function as a key contributor to age-related declines in a range of cognitive tasks. Finally, although these cognitive functions will be reviewed separately below, it is abundantly clear that they overlap and interact in interesting and complex ways. Although the overall picture might seem to be one of cognitive decline, enormous variability exists across individuals. Many older people out-perform young people, at least on some cognitive tasks, and others of the same age do at least as well as the young [2]. A question of great interest to aging researchers is what accounts for this variability. This chapter highlights the cognitive domains that show the greatest declines with age and are also the most variable. Areas of cognitive strength in normal aging are also discussed, because these may be recruited to compensate for areas of weakness. Theories of cognitive aging that have developed within each cognitive domain are outlined and brain regions hypothesized to underlie these functions are noted. The next chapter section reviews some of the evidence for age-related impairments in basic cognitive functions, focusing primarily on attention and memory, and also discusses briefly the attentional and memory processes that show relative preservation with age.
Aging is associated with multiple sensory and motor impairments, including hearing loss, poor eyesight, reduced muscle strength, and increased reaction time. In many cases, sensory-motor deficits involve changes in the transduction or output systems and the knowledge concerning senescence of the processing mechanisms permits compensation through adjuncts, such as hearing aids and corrective lenses. In contrast, senescence of the central nervous system mechanisms involved in cognition is not well understood, creating a challenge for treating the impairment in short-term memory and increased forgetting associated with normal aging. In addition, overlaid upon the memory deficits and response slowing, is dementia linked to Alzheimers or Parkinsons disease. In considering the mechanisms of aging-related changes in cognitive function, several questions arise: How do the cellular properties of neurons change during normal aging? Do the changes represent the decline in neural function per se, or compensation for senescence of a more fundamental process? Are these properties different from age-related disease, or is Alzheimers disease an inevitable consequence of a long life? Certainly there is some interaction between diseases of the elderly and normal aging, because the appearance of these diseases increases with age. Nevertheless, there are important differences between the cognitive decline due to neurodegenerative ailments, which are more prevalent in the elderly, and memory deficits that arise in healthy elderly individuals. Unlike neurodegenerative diseases, cognitive changes associated with senescence are not linked to overt brain lesions or a significant loss of neurons [1, 2], although normal aging may be accompanied by some loss of neuronal elements, including changes in the branching of axons and in the number or size of synaptic contacts [3]. More important may be the fact that aging is associated with a shift in the timing or level of transmission through neural structures. The transmission properties of neurons and the functional connectivity between neurons determine the fidelity of sensory processing, computational capability, and the reliability of motor output. In turn, changes in transmission properties or functional connectivity can provide developmental control on the emergence of behavior, and may represent a mechanism for recording and integrating experience. As such, a decrease in transmission through a brain structure or a shift in the ability to modify synaptic connections could constitute a functional lesion that may form the basis for cognitive decline during aging. Due to the invasive nature of studies that directly record cell discharges and synaptic responses from brain structures, it currently is not feasible to measure transmission properties in humans. Surface electrodes have been used, however, to detect and characterize age-related changes that may contribute to functional lesions. As humans age, the amplitude of sensory-evoked responses wane and the response latency increases [4]. Changes in the latency of transmission through sensory systems could contribute to age-related impairments in the temporal processing of sensory information [5, 6]. Studies in aged animals indicate that conduction velocity (i.e., the speed at which that an action potential travels down the axon) decreases for neocortical, cerebellar, and peripheral sensory and motor neurons [715]. The cause of this reduced conduction velocity is unclear, but it may result from alterations in the myelin sheath [16, 17].
In recent years, the application of design-based stereologic methods to the analysis of the central nervous system has contributed considerably to our understanding of the functional and pathological morphology of the aging brain. Design-based stereology has become the method of choice in quantitative histological analysis. Its advantages over other quantitative techniques in respect to rigor, accuracy, and consistency of results have been documented extensively in the scientific literature. Originally, design-based stereology was described as a set of methods that provide a three-dimensional interpretation of structures based on observations made on two-dimensional sections [1]. However, in the current use of design-based stereology, many methods make use of three-dimensional sections. The term design-based indicates that the methods and the sampling schemes that define the newer methods in stereology are designed, that is, defined a priori, in such a manner that one need not take into consideration the size, shape, spatial orientation, and spatial distribution of the cells to be investigated [2]. Eliminating the need for information about the geometry of the cells under investigation results in more robust data because potential sources of systematic errors in the calculations are eliminated [24]. Design-based stereology can be divided into analyses of the global and local characteristics of tissues, the most important of which are volume, number, connectivity, spatial distribution, and length of linear biological structures. These characteristics can be expressed as absolute values (e.g., the volume of the granule cell layer in the human hippocampus, the number of granule cells in the human hippocampal granule cell layer, etc.) or as relative values (e.g., the volume fraction of the human hippocampus occupied by the granule cell layer, the density of granule cells within the human hippocampal granule cell layer, etc.). Both global and local characteristics can be analyzed by a variety of stereologic methods. This chapter is divided into three parts. The first part provides an overview of recent progress in brain aging research on humans, non-human primates, and rodents with design-based stereology and reviews the main outcome of such investigations. The second part of the chapter provides an introduction into the use of design-based stereologic methods that most neuroscientists interested in their use would need to analyze volumes of brain regions, numbers of cells (neurons, glial cells) within these brain regions, mean volumes (nuclear, perikaryal) of these cells, length densities of linear biological structures such as vessels and nerve fibers, and the cytoarchitecture of brain regions (i.e., the spatial distribution of cells within a region of interest). The chapter closes with a short outlook on the future of design-based stereology in brain aging research.
Normal function of virtually all tissues depends on adequate blood flow. As one would expect, deficits in blood flow under basal or stimulated conditions result in diminished metabolic capacity and impairments in function. Importantly, functional deficits in organs and tissues are one of the hallmarks of biological aging but the etiology of these deficits and the potential relationship between alterations in blood flow and the deterioration of tissue function with age remain enigmatic. Empirical and rigorous scientific evidence demonstrates that functional deterioration of many tissues begins in early adulthood and progresses throughout life. Concurrently, there is an increase in tissue pathology, including deposition of insoluble collagen and tissue fibrosis. Despite the structural changes with age, which are generally considered permanent or irreversible, tissue function can be improved even in late ages by several disparate types of interventions, supporting the conclusion that age-related impairments in cellular and tissue function, and perhaps some aspects of aging itself, remain plastic. Whether such plastic changes depend on increased basal blood flow or the capacity to increase blood flow in response to metabolic challenge remains unknown. The strong relationship that exists between cellular metabolic capacity and regional blood flow leads to the conclusion that a clear understanding of age-related changes in the regulation of blood flow (including microvascular architecture, plasticity, and vessel reactivity) is essential for understanding the progressive decline in cellular metabolic activity and eventually tissue function with age. Nevertheless, there are a limited number of studies that have considered the potential interrelationships between these variables. The guiding principle of this chapter, and for which there remain insufficient data, is that alterations in the vasculature have the capacity to impact biological aging. These alterations may include, but are not limited to, changes in microvascular density (density of arterioles, arteriolar to arteriolar anastomoses, capillaries, and venules); ultrastructure (cellular components that comprise the vasculature); plasticity (e.g., elaboration, regression, or replacement of microvessels that may occur over days, weeks, or months); and the dynamic regulation of blood flow through the vasculature (e.g., vessel reactivity). Despite the importance of each of these components, historical and technical aspects of research in these areas isolate the scientific disciplines and they are rarely considered a functional unit. This chapter reviews the current state of information in each of these areas as it relates to functional changes within the central nervous system with age.
Impairments in multiple behavioral domains are observed in aged rodents and a wide variety of neurobiological parameters have been investigated in conjunction with these impairments. These paradigms also provide a setting in which to test possible pharmacological and environmental manipulations that may be able to ameliorate age-related cognitive decline. Careful behavioral design and the use of multiple measures of performance [100] will enhance the ability of experiments in aged rodents to tell us about the biological substrates of cognitive impairment in human brain aging, and will increase the applicability of these models for preclinical development and testing of agents that may be effective cognitive enhancers.
Given that neurogenesis is regionally restricted in the adult brain, the direct contribution of changes in neurogenesis to the development of aging-related cognitive decline is likely limited, perhaps accounting for the difficulty thus far in linking the decline in neurogenesis to specific neural deficits. As investigations of the contributions of adult neurogenesis to neural function continue, however, it is reasonable to expect they will demonstrate that the aging-related loss of the plasticity afforded by the continued addition of new neurons contributes to functional decline in senescence. Moreover, the interest of experimental gerontologists in the regulation of neurogenesis in the adult and aging brain extends beyond direct roles in hippocampal and olfactory function. It is reasonable to expect that the changes in neuronal microenvironment that lead to the decline in neurogenesis in older individuals may contribute to functional changes in established neurons and glial cells as well. In addition, the ability to isolate and expand neural stem cells from healthy brains, along with a rapidly growing capacity to regulate those cells and their progeny, keeps alive a vision of using transplanted stem cells to treat neurodegenerative diseases [216221]. Even more appealing is that every advance in understanding the regulation of neurogenesis in vivo is a step toward therapeutic manipulation of endogenous progenitors to replace lost neurons or compensate for lost function [222], whether that occurring with normal aging or as a result of neurodegenerative disease. Although neuronal turnover is reduced in every neurogenic region of the aged brain, neuronal precursor cells clearly survive, remain responsive to growth factors and other physiological stimuli (e.g., [56, 58, 72, 81, 223]), and can increase their activity in response to damage (e.g., [63, 80]). Continued exploration of the regulation of neural progenitor cells in the adult and aging brain is critical not only for understanding normal, aging-related cognitive deficits, but also for progress toward the goal of using the brains regenerative potential to restore function lost to injury or neurodegenerative disease.
For the past several years, this laboratory has been involved in examining the effects of age on the brains of rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta). This species was chosen because these monkeys have a lifespan of about 35 years [1], so that one monkey year is equivalent to about one human year of life. Furthermore, although some senile plaques may be present in the brains of the older monkeys, there are no neurofibrillary tangles and the monkeys show no signs of developing Alzheimers disease as they become older. They do, however, exhibit cognitive decline with age, similar to the cognitive decline that occurs in normally aging humans, and the extent of the cognitive decline can be assessed in monkeys by psychological tests that are adapted from those used on humans (e.g., [24], see also Chapter 2). Taken together, these attributes make the rhesus monkey an excellent model in which to study the effects of normal aging on the brain. It is now generally accepted that there is no significant overall loss of neurons from the cerebral cortex of rhesus monkeys and other primates during normal aging (see [57]). Moreover, when one examines sections of cerebral cortex from old monkeys by either light or electron microscopy, there are few indications that neurons undergo morphological changes with age, beyond some accumulation of lipofuscin in their cell bodies and a loss of dendritic spines. However, Smith et al. [8] have recently asserted that when they compared the prefrontal cortex of young and aging monkeys, they found a 32% loss of neurons from area 8A of old monkeys. In contrast, they found that the numbers of neurons in the adjacent area 46 remained unchanged, as reported earlier by Peters et al. [9]. Smith et al. [8] suggest that their finding demonstrates that neuronal loss from the aging cerebral cortex may be localized. The cells that do show obvious alterations with age are the neuroglial cells. All three classical types of neuroglial cells in old monkeys show accumulations of material in their perikarya and, in addition, there are obvious changes in the morphology of the myelin sheaths and axons of some nerve fibers.
The hippocampus is an anatomical region that is critical for certain types of learning and memory that are vulnerable to the effects of normal aging. Early data indicated that these cognitive deficits could be attributed to age-related neuronal loss. However, in the mid-1990s, it was discovered that frank neural degeneration was not a consequence of the normal aging process. First observed in rodents, this finding has since been replicated in primates, including humans (reviewed in [1] and [2]). Given the fact that hippocampal neuronal number is relatively preserved, even at very advanced ages, dysfunctions associated with neuronal integrity (e.g., proper encoding, gene expression and cell signaling) have become an important avenues of exploration as causative factors of age-related mnemonic impairment [35]). Indeed, as this chapter discusses in detail, age-related deficits in signal transduction do occur and are presumed to reflect deficient transfer of information both within the hippo-campal formation and between the hippocampus and other brain structures critical for proper cognitive function (e.g., [68]). The animal model that we have used to investigate the behavioral relevance of age-related changes in signal transduction mechanisms is reliable and well-established [9, 10]. Briefly, hippocampal-dependent spatial memory is assessed in young and aged male Long-Evans rats in the Morris water maze. Using data from probe trials that are interpolated throughout our training protocol, an individual measure of spatial learning ability is derived for each rat (i.e., a spatial learning index). As shown in Figure 9.1, plotting individual young and aged rat spatial performance using the spatial learning index reveals that this measure reliably distinguishes two groups of aged rats: (1) those that learn on par with the young cohorts (i.e., aged-unimpaired rats) and (2) those that perform outside the range of young rats, demonstrating impairment on the task (i.e., aged-impaired rats) [9]. The variability in spatial learning performance observed in this population of aged rats both mimics that observed in humans and affords investigators the opportunity to not only compare neurobiological factors that change as a function of age but, also, to directly link such changes to a functional behavioral measure of hippocampal integrity. Among aged rats, the correlation between individual learning indices and neurobiological measures related to the efficacy of signal transduction mechanisms is the primary methodology used in our studies. Although all data in this chapter are related to this one particular model, both the neurobiological and behavioral changes have been replicated in other strains of rodents and even primates. The approaches and techniques described here should be useful and applicable to other animal models of cognitive aging.
It is now more than two decades since the first proposal of a Ca(2+) hypothesis of aging [1]. In its mature formulation, the hypothesis aimed to provide a working hypothesis for explaining not only the aging process but also Alzheimers disease (AD). Drawing on many neurophysiological processes and mechanisms, the hypothesis contained six interrelated key elements [2], providing an extremely wide explanatory blanket. The exposition of these elements is worth repeating not only for historical reasons and to illustrate the breath of the proposal, but also because it still represents the source of some misunderstandings.
An extensive body of work has substantiated the idea that repeated or prolonged exposure to GCs has a deleterious impact on brain function, and has also provided evidence that GCs likely contribute to age-related decline in brain function. These stress- and GC-mediated effects on age are evident across behavior, electrophysiological, and anatomical levels. Despite the sophistication of our knowledge of the effects of stress and GCs across many dimensions of brain function, future research will undoubtedly continue to expand our understanding of the ways by which this occurs and suggest new therapeutic targets for intervention within a subset of people whose brain function is disproportionately affected during senescence.
Aging is characterized by a progressive decline in the efficiency of physiological function and by the increased susceptibility to disease and death. Currently, one of the most plausible and acceptable explanations for the mechanistic basis of aging is the free radical theory of aging. This theory postulates that aging and its related diseases are the consequence of free radical-induced damage to cellular macromolecules and the inability to counterbalance these changes by endogenous anti-oxidant defenses. The origin of this explanation has a foundation in the rate of living theory [1], according to which the lifespan of an individual depends on its rate of energy utilization (metabolic rate) and on a genetically determined amount of energy consumed during adult life. Pearl [1] proposed that the longevity of an organism is inversely correlated to its mass-specific metabolic rate: increasing an organisms metabolic rate will decrease longevity, whereas factors that decrease the metabolic rate will increase longevity. The correlation between metabolic rate and longevity has been questioned due to the exception posed by birds, which have a high metabolic rate yet live much longer than mammals [2]. However, despite their high rate of oxygen consumption, it has been shown that birds have a low rate of free radical production in brain and in other tissues; their mitochondria produce up to 10-fold fewer reactive oxygen species (ROS) in vitro [3, 4]. This observation suggests that the mitochondrial rate of free radical production may be more important than the metabolic rate in terms of longevity. Indeed, the mitochondrial rate of free radical production seems to have a much stronger correlation with maximum longevity. Harman [5] originally proposed the free-radical theory of aging in the mid-1950s. He suggested that free radicals produced during aerobic respiration have deleterious effects on cell components and connective tissues, causing cumulative damage over time that ultimately results in aging and death. He initially speculated that free radicals were most likely produced through reactions involving molecular oxygen catalyzed in the cells by the oxidative enzymes and enhanced by trace metals such as iron, cobalt, and manganese. The skepticism first spread around this theory was weakened by the discovery in 1969 of the enzyme superoxide dismutase (SOD) [6]. The existence of an intracellular enzyme whose sole function is to remove superoxide anions (O2 ()) has provided strong biological evidence that free radicals are involved in the aging process. In 1972, Harman expanded his original studies to include the involvement of mitochondria in the physiological processes of aging [7]. Harman proposed that mitochondria generate a significant amount of cellular energy and, through consumption of most of the intracellular oxygen, set the limit on the lifespan. Approximately 90% of cellular oxygen is consumed within the mitochondria, mainly in the inner membrane, where oxidative phosphorylation occurs. Since the early 1970s, several studies have emerged to give support to this theory, and the free radical theory of aging has been expanded to the mitochondrial free radical theory of aging. The premise of the mitochondrial free radical theory of aging is that mitochondria are both producers and targets of reactive oxidative species. According to the theory, oxidative stress attacks mitochondria, leading to increased oxidative damage. As a consequence, damaged mitochondria progressively become less efficient, losing their functional integrity and releasing more oxygen molecules, increasing oxidative damage to the mitochondria, and culminating in an accumulation of dysfunctional mitochondria with age. Although the deleterious effects of free radicals in the aging process have been demonstrated, ROS also are important in maintaining homeostasis. Recent studies have shown that ROS act as an additional class of small molecules that function as cellular messengers. For example, oxidants (nitrous oxide [NO]) act as signaling molecules to promote long-term potentiation (LTP) [8]. Moreover, it has been shown that stimulation of growth factors induces the production of free radicals that are subsequently involved in regulating the proliferative response [9]. The human organism is equipped with very efficient antioxidative defense mechanisms that, among others, include antioxidative enzymes such as SOD, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, and glutathione reductase [10]. When the production of ROS is prolonged, the endogenous reserves of antioxidants become insufficient, leading to cell damage. Similarly, the production of ROS below physiological levels induces a decreased proliferative response.
This chapter focuses primarily on recent advances in the functional neuroimaging of human cognition that have led toward a converging view that neural circuits involving prefrontal function and the related capacity for attentional control are key components of the developmental changes associated with normal aging. Along the way, this chapter discusses the neurocognitive correlates of attentional control, how aging affects these behavioral and neurological relationships, how these effects differ from those seen in age-associated pathology, how individuals vary in their susceptibility to such effects of aging, and what implications such individual differences hold for our understanding of the aging brain.
Recognition that aging is not the accumulation of disease, but rather comprises fundamental biological processes that are amenable to experimental study, is the basis for the recent growth of experimental biogerontology. As increasingly sophisticated studies provide greater understanding of what occurs in the aging brain and how these changes occur, new possibilities emerge for limiting the effects of aging on neural function. Outlining the newest methods and techniques, Brain Aging: Models, Methods, and Mechanisms provides scientists, researchers, and clinicians with a broad understanding of the important progress and implications for the future of this important field.
It is now well known that one generally experiences relatively mild changes in cognitive abilities with age, particularly with abilities such as short-term memory, executive functions, and confrontation naming [1]. However, a select group of these successfully aged individuals evidence virtually no change in their cognitive abilities with age, even into the eleventh decade of life [2]. Such individuals have often been referred to as examples of pristine successful aging. At the other end of the continuum, a large percentage of people are known to develop marked cognitive decline with age, characterized by a dementia state, with a majority of those developing Alzheimers disease (AD). These individuals fall into the category of unsuccessful aging. In recent years, however, clinical researchers have characterized a group as individuals who, with advancing age, show a moderate impairment in one or more cognitive domains that affects the ability to carry out activities of daily living but does not reach the threshold of a dementia state. This category, classified by many as mild cognitive impairment (MCI), reasonably can be regarded as a second general category of unsuccessful aging. Although many consider MCI as the earliest stage of Alzheimers disease, evidence suggests that MCI represents a separate static and chronic state of normal aging. The etiology of MCI is unknown, but stroke and heart disease risk factors, genetics, and education have all been raised as possible contributors. While nongenetically altered laboratory animals do not evidence the brain changes seen in AD [3], they have reliably demonstrated age-related changes in cognitive function. Evidence from a wide range of studies in rodents, dogs, and non-human primates have shown as a group that aged subjects are significantly impaired relative to young controls on cognitive tasks that assess functions such as working memory, declarative memory, and executive function: the same functions that evidence impairment in human aging [416]. However, on close inspection of the data, the degree of impairment within the aged group is anything but uniform and, in fact, is often dichotomous. While the overall group effect yields an impairment in the given function, it is clear that individuals within the aged group evidence only mild or, in some cases, no impairment on the task while others demonstrate severe impairment. The finding of individual differences, emphasized in the rodent literature (see [17]), has not been addressed previously in studies of nonhuman primates. This is due in part to the small number of studies in aging primates as well as the relatively small sample sizes of aged groups available within studies. This chapter presents data that we have collected over the past 15 years as part of an ongoing study using the rhesus monkey as a model of normal human aging. During this period, more than 125 rhesus monkeys ranging in age from 5 to 31 years of age have been assessed on multiple tests of recognition memory and executive function. In this chapter we present the data from these animals and discuss their varying levels of impairments and how this relates to clinical findings in human studies.


Signals exchanged between cells in the immune system are generated at specific contact regions termed &quot;immunological synapses&quot; (IS). The morphology and the functions of IS vary with circumstances and include directing secretion and integrating positive and negative signals to tune the extent of response - a model that is essentially derived from neurosciences. Indeed, the mechanisms of signal integration and antigen decoding are not yet completely understood and many hypotheses are worked out.
Learning and memory are fundamental higher brain functions that allow the individual to adapt to the environment, to build up his own history as a unique creature, to widen the personal cultural background and, ultimately, the population culture. In this review, we will briefly examine the cellular and molecular mechanisms that contribute to the various forms of memory that include short- and long-term memory as well as unconscious and conscious memory. Although in mammals various brain areas participate in distinct forms of memory, the molecular and cellular mechanisms of very simple to complex forms of learning and memory are extremely conserved across evolution from molluscs to man and among various forms of memory and consist in short-to-long lived rearrangements in synaptic efficiency and in the structure of neuronal networks.
The secretory activity of subcommissural organ cells is controlled by various extrinsic and intrinsic factors. Lead has been recognised as a neurotoxic heavy metal, since it induces morphological and functional abnormalities in the brain. In this work, we examined the effect of lead exposure on the subcommissural organ (SCO), a brain gland known by its secretion of Reissner's fiber (RF) in cerebro-spinal fluid. Glycoprotein secretion and serotonin (5HT) innervation of the SCO was examined after acute and chronic lead exposures in the sub-desert rodent Meriones shawi. Lead exposures were achieved by, respectively, intra-peritoneal injection of 25 mg/kg body weight of lead acetate for 3 days and 0.5% of lead acetate in the drinking water over 4 months until adult age. 5HT and RF immunolabeling in the SCO revealed several serotoninergic fibers reaching the SCO and abundant secretory material. An increase in both 5HT innervation and secretory material of the SCO was recorded after both acute and chronic lead exposure. These results show that lead exposure affects the serotonergic innervation of the SCO. Moreover, the enhancement of SCO secretion suggests a role of this gland in neuroprotection and lead detoxification of the brain in Meriones shawi.
In this study, we used a neuronal cell line generated by transfection of rat olfactory epithelium with immortalizing recombinant oncogene E1A of adenovirus-2. The resulting 13.S.1.24 line of transformed cells expressed an antigenic phenotype of olfactory neuronal progenitors. Time-dependency assessments over 1 week of treatment indicated that apoptosis and differentiation induced by retinoic acid (RA) were concomitant. Indeed, RA altered the cell proliferation rate, but it also stimulated differentiation of surviving 13.S.1.24 cells into bipolar olfactory marker protein-immunoreactive neurons. To characterize the nature of the cells we used immunocytochemistry, optical imaging, scanning electron microscopy and atomic force microscopy.
It has been reported that periodic maternal separation in rats leads to a variety of endure behavioral, neurochemical and microstructural sequelae associated with the pathophysiology of anxiety disorders. Since it has been proposed that these changes might be permanent, we examined whether environmental complexity aid to recover the structural dendritic impairment induced by neonatal maternal deprivation in the medial prefrontal cortex of the rat. In addition, the anxiety-like behavior was assessed in the elevated plus-maze. Repeated maternal separation between postnatal days 6-21 (3 hours daily) significantly reduced the dendritic material in layer II/III pyramidal neurons and induced anxiety-like behaviors in the elevated plus maze. Furthermore, environmental stimulation (twice a day, 1 h each) during 12 consecutive days (postnatal days 23-35) failed to recover the neuronal and behavioral disorders induced by neonatal maternal separation. The results demonstrated that (i) neonatal maternal separation severely altered pyramidal dendritic outgrowth in close association with anxiety-like behavior assessed in the elevated plus maze, and (ii) postweaning environmental complexity was unable to recover neither the prefrontocortical neuronal impairment nor the novelty-induced anxiety-like behavior triggered by early maternal deprivation.


In this study a flexible biodegradable wrap is compared with microsurgical epineurial suturing in the repair of cleanly divided peripheral nerves. Five groups of twelve sheep were used; one control group and four neurotmesis and repair groups. The four repair groups were; (1) Epineurial suture repair using a microscope and 9/0 polyamide; (2) Wrap secured by Tisseel glue; (3) Wrap secured by polycaprolactone glue; (4) Wrap secured by suturing. Regeneration of the median nerve was assessed by electromyography, nerve conduction studies, wet muscle mass measurements, and morphometry. The results suggested that nerve regeneration in the wrap+Tisseel glue group was as good as that in the epineurial repair group. The use of polycaprolactone glue is not recommended in nerve repair. Placement of the wrap was easy to learn and quick to carry out under direct vision. The wrap used in this study could prove to be a useful alternative to epineurial suturing to repair peripheral nerves and may have a particularly unique role in the developing world and battlefield.
The declining capacity for injured peripheral nerves to regenerate their axons with time and distance is accounted for, at least in part, by the chronic axotomy of the neurons and Schwann cell denervation prior to target reinnervation. A largely unrecognized site of delay is the surgical suture site where, in rats, 4 weeks is required for all neurons to regenerate their axons across the site. Low frequency stimulation for just 1 h after surgery accelerates this axon crossing in association with upregulation of neurotrophic factors in the neurons. We translated these findings to human patients by examining the number of reinnervated motor units in the median nerve-innervated thenar muscles before and after carpel tunnel release surgery in a randomized controlled trial. Motor unit number estimates (MUNE) in patients with moderate and severe carpal tunnel syndrome were significantly lower than normal. This number increased significantly by 6-8 months after surgery and reached normal values by 12 months in contrast to a non-significant increase in the control unstimulated group. Tests including the Purdue Pegboard Test verified the more rapid functional recovery after stimulation. The data indicate a feasible strategy to promote axonal regeneration in humans that has the potential to improve functional outcomes, especially in combination with strategies to sustain the regenerative capacity of neurons and the support of Schwann cells over distance and time.
Today applications of neural prostheses that successfully help patients to increase their activities of daily living and participate in social life again are quite simple implants that yield definite tissue response and are well recognized as foreign body. Latest developments in genetic engineering, nanotechnologies and materials sciences have paved the way to new scenarios towards highly complex systems to interface the human nervous system. Combinations of neural cells with microimplants promise stable biohybrid interfaces. Nanotechnology opens the door to macromolecular landscapes on implants that mimic the biologic topology and surface interaction of biologic cells. Computer sciences dream of technical cognitive systems that act and react due to knowledge-based conclusion mechanisms to a changing or adaptive environment. Different sciences start to interact and discuss the synergies when methods and paradigms from biology, computer sciences and engineering, neurosciences, psychology will be combined. They envision the era of &quot;converging technologies&quot; to completely change the understanding of science and postulate a new vision of humans. In this chapter, these research lines will be discussed on some examples as well as the societal implications and ethical questions that arise from these new opportunities.
Implanted programmable pumps that infuse intrathecal baclofen (ITB) markedly enhance the ability of clinicians to manage severe spasticity in appropriately selected patients. Studies addressing the efficacy of this treatment modality have primarily used clinical outcome measures of impairment, particularly reduction in stiffness as measured by the Ashworth scale. Several recent studies, however, highlight comparalively higher sensitivity of neurophysiologic techniques, especially the H-reflex, as an objective index of spinal cord response to ITB administration. We review the conceptual, physiological, and methodological hases for use of the H-reflex as an adjunct to clinical evaluation among patients receiving ITB infusion, including published reports and selected case studies that address the potential advantages and limitations of such techniques when applied to dose titration and system &quot;troubleshooting&quot; scenarios, We also address the implications of such findings in the context of reported complications such as &quot;tolerance&quot; to ITB administration and catheter &quot;microfracture&quot;. The accumulated knowledge suggests that H-reflex is a sensitive method for documenting altered spinal cord responsiveness in the presence of ITB delivery. We therefore recommend using H-reflex as an adjunct to clinical evaluation when judging the overall effectiveness of ITB administration.
Chronic pain is a complex condition that requires a multi-disciplinary approach to management. Spinal cord stimulation (SCS) has evolved into a relatively easily implemented, reversible technique with low morbidity for the management of chronic, intractable pain in selected patients. Percutaneous placement of electrode arrays, under local anaesthesia. supported by programmable, implanted electronics has been a major technical advance. Multicenter prospective studies were conducted and demonstrated that SCS. as a neuromodulation procedure, is indeed a superior method for treatment of chronic pain if the patients are selected with caution and a proper strategy. Future development of innovative electrodes and pulse generation systems will continue to improve this therapy.
Operative neuromodulation is the field of altering electrically or chemically the signal transmission in the nervous system by implanted devices in order to excite, inhibit or tune the activities of neurons or neural networks and produce therapeutic effects. It is a rapidly evolving biomedical and high-technology field on the cutting-edge of developments across a wide range of scientific disciplines. The authors review relevant literature on the neuromodulation procedures that are performed in the spinal cord or peripheral nerves in order to treat a considerable number of conditions such as (a) chronic pain (craniofacial, somatic, pelvic, limb, or due to failed back surgery), (b) spasticity (due to spinal trauma, multiple sclerosis, upper motor neuron disease, dystonia, cerebral palsy, cerebrovascular disease or head trauma), (c) respiratory disorders, (d) cardiovascular ischemia, (e) neuropathic bladder, and (f) bowel dysfunction of neural cause. Functional neuroprosthetics, a field of operative neuromodulation, encompasses the design, construction and implantation of artificial devices capable of generating electrical stimuli, thereby, replacing the function of damaged parts of the nervous system. The present article also reviews important literature on functional neuroprostheses, functional electrical stimulation (FES), and various emerging applications based on microsystems devices, neural engineering, neuroaugmentation, neurostimulation, and assistive technologies. The authors highlight promising lines of research such as endoneural prostheses for peripheral nerve stimulation, closed-loop systems for responsive neurostimulation or implanted microwires for microstimulation of the spinal cord to enable movements of paralyzed limbs. The above growing scientific fields, in combination with biological regenerative methods, are certainly going to enhance the practice of neuromodulation. The range of neuromodulatory procedures in the spine and peripheral nerves and the dynamics of the biomedical and technological domains which are reviewed in this article indicate that new breakthroughs are likely to improve substantially the quality of life of patients who are severely disabled by neurological disorders.
Treatment-resistant depression (TRD) is a major public health concern due to its high costs to society. One of the novel approaches for the treatment of depression is the vagus nerve stimulation (VNS). Therapeutic brain stimulation through delivery of pulsed electrical impulses to the left cervical vagus nerve now has established safety and efficacy as an adjunct treatment for medication-resistant epilepsy and has recently been approved as an adjunct long-term treatment for chronic or recurrent depression. There is considerable evidence from both animal and human neurochemical and neuroimaging studies, that the vagus nerve and its stimulation influence limbic and higher cortical brain regions implicated in mood disorders, providing a rationale for its possible role in the treatment of psychiatric disorders. Clinical studies (open-label and comparator with treatment in naturalistic setting) in patients with TRD have produced promising results, especially when the response rates at longer-term (one- and two-year) follow-up time points are considered. Ongoing research efforts will help determine the place of VNS in the armament of therapeutic modalities available for major depression.
Electrical stimulation (ES) in the brain is becoming a new treatment option in patients with treatment-resistant obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). A possible brain target might be the nucleus accumbens (NACC). This review aims to summarise the behavioural and physiological effects of ES in the NACC in humans and in animals and to discuss these findings with regard to neuroanatomical, electrophysiological and behavioural insights. The results clearly demonstrate that ES in the NACC has an effect on reward, activity, fight-or-flight, exploratory behaviour and food intake, with evidence for only moderate physiological effects. Seizures were rarely observed. Finally, the results of ES studies in patients with treatment-resistant OCD and in animal models for OCD are promising.
The mainstays of Parkinson's disease (PD) treatment remain symptomatic, including initial dopamine replacement and subsequent deep brain stimulation, however, neither of these approaches is neuroprotective. Neurotrophic factors - proteins that activate cell signalling pathways regulating neuronal survival, differentiation, growth and regeneration - represent an alternative for treating dopaminergic neurons in PD but are difficult to administer clinically because they do not pass through the blood-brain barrier. Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) has potent neurotrophic effects particularly but not exclusively on dopaminergic neurons; in animal models of PD, it has consistently demonstrated both neuroprotective and neuroregenerative effects when provided continuously, either by means of a viral vector or through continuous infusion either into the cerebral ventricles (ICV) or directly into the denervated putamen. This led to a human PD study in which GDNF was administered by monthly bolus intracerebroventricular injections, however, no clinical benefit resulted, probably because of the limited penetration to the target brain areas, and instead significant side effects occurred. In an open-label study of continuous intraputamenal GDNF infusion in five patients (one unilaterally and four bilaterally), we reported excellent tolerance, few side effects and clinical benefit evident within three months of the commencement of treatment. The clinical improvement was sustained and progressive, and by 24-months patients demonstrated a 57 and 63% improvement in their off-medication motor and activities of daily living UPDRS subscores, respectively, with clear benefit in dyskinesias. The benefit was associated with a significant increase in putamenal 18F-dopa uptake on positron emission tomography (PET), and in one patient coming to autopsy after 43 months of unilateral infusion there was evident increased tyrosine hydroxylase immunopositive nerve fibres in the infused putamen. A second open trial in 10 patients using unilateral intraputamenal GDNF infusions has also demonstrated a greater than 30% bilateral benefit in both on- and off-medication scores at 24 weeks. Based on our 6-month results, a randomized controlled clinical trial was conducted to confirm the open-label results, however, GDNF infusion over 6-months did not confer the predetermined level of clinical benefit to patients with PD despite increased 18F-dopa uptake surrounding the catheter tip. It is possible that technical differences between this trial and the positive open label studies contributed to this negative outcome.
Since the initial publication of Tsubokawa in 1991, epidural motor cortex stimulation (MCS) is increasingly reported as an effective surgical option for the treatment of refractory neuropathic pain although its mechanism of action remains poorly understood. The authors review the extensive literature published over the last 15 years on central and neuropathic pain. Optimal patient selection remains difficult and the value of pharmacological tests or transcranial magnetic stimulation in predicting the efficacy of MCS has not been established. Pre-operative functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), 3-dimensional volume MRI, neuronavigation and intra-operative neurophysiological monitoring have contributed to improvements in the technique for identifying the precise location of the targeted motor cortical area and the correct placement of the electrode array. MCS should be considered as the treatment of choice in post-stroke pain, thalamic pain or facial anesthesia dolorosa. In brachial plexus avulsion pain, it is preferable to propose initially dorsal root entry zone (DREZ)-tomy; MCS may be offered after DREZotomy has failed to control the pain. In our experience, the results of MCS on phantom limb pain are promising. In general, the efficacy of MCS depends on: a) the accurate placement of the stimulation electrode over the appropriate area of the motor cortex, and b) on sophisticated programming of the stimulation parameters. A better understanding of the MCS mechanism of action will probably make it possible to adjust better the stimulation parameters. The conclusions of multicentered randomised studies, now in progress, will be very useful and are likely to promote further research and clinical applications in this field.
Convulsive status epilepticus (CSE) in childhood is a medical emergency and its aetiology and outcome mean that it should be studied separately from adult CSE. The incidence in developed countries is between 17 and 23/100,000 with a higher incidence in younger children. Febrile CSE is the commonest single group with a good prognosis in sharp distinction to CSE related to central nervous system infections which have a high mortality. The aim of treatment is to intervene at 5 min and studies indicate that intravenous (i.v.) lorazepam may be a better first-line treatment than rectal diazepam and i.v. phenytoin a better second-line treatment than rectal paraldehyde. An epidemiological study strongly supports the development of prehospital treatment with buccal midazolam becoming a widely used but unlicensed option in the community. More than two doses of benzodiazepines increase the rate of respiratory depression without obvious benefit. The 1 year recurrence rate is 17% and the hospital mortality is about 3%.







Modern trends in psychology and cognitive neuroscience suggest that applications of nonlinear dynamics, chaos and self-organization seem to be particularly important for research of some fundamental problems regarding mind-brain relationship. Relevant problems among others are formations of memories during alterations of mental states and nature of a barrier that divides mental states, and leads to the process called dissociation. This process is related to a formation of groups of neurons which often synchronize their firing patterns in a unique spatial maner. Central theme of this study is the relationship between level of moving and oscilating mental processes and their neurophysiological substrate. This opens a question about principles of organization of conscious experiences and how these experiences arise in the brain. Chaotic self-organization provides a unique theoretical and experimental tool for deeper understanding of dissociative phenomena and enables to study how dissociative phenomena can be linked to epileptiform discharges which are related to various forms of psychological and somatic manifestations. Organizing principles that constitute human consciousness and other mental phenomena from this point of view may be described by analysis and reconstruction of underlying dynamics of psychological or psychophysiological measures. These nonlinear methods in this study were used for analysis of characteristic changes in EEG and bilateral electrodermal activity (EDA) during reliving of dissociated traumatic and stressful memories and during psychopathological states. Analysis confirms a possible role of chaotic transitions in the processing of dissociated memory. Supportive finding for a possible chaotic process related to dissociation found in this study represent also significant relationship of dissociation, epileptiform discharges measured by typical psychopathological manifestations and characteristic laterality changes in bilateral EDA in patients with schizophrenia and depression. Increased level of psychopathological symptoms indicates close relationship to the right-left EDA asymmetry and asymmetry of information entropy calculated by non-linear recurrence quantification analysis of EDA records. Because epileptiform activity has specific chaotic behaviour and calculated information entropy from EDA records reflects the complexity of the deterministic structure in the system there is a relevant assumption that unilaterally increased complexity may produce interhemispheric disbalance and increased chaoticity which hypothetically may serve as a dynamic source of epileptiform discharges related to trauma induced kindling mechanism. Specific form of chaotic inner organization which cannot be explained only as a consequence of external causality support also psychophysiological data that lead to the so-called self-organizing theory of dreaming by Kahn and Hobson. This study suggests that self-organizing theory of dreaming is particularly important with respect to problem of memory formation and processing during dissociative states characteristic for dreams. Recent data and also findings of this study support the research utility of chaos theory in psychology and neuroscience, and also its conceptual view of dynamic ordering factors and self-organization underlying psychological processes and brain physiology.




The study of the profile of gene expression in a cell or tissue at a particular moment gives an insight into the plans of the cell for protein synthesis. Recent technological advances make it possible to analyze the expression of the entire genome in a single experiment. These &quot;gene expression assays&quot; complement or replace previous assays which measured the gene expression of only one gene, or a select group of genes. Within this chapter we outline the development of the gene expression assay and provide examples of the wide range of disciplines in which it is used. An overview of the current technologies is given, and includes an introduction to laser capture microdissection and linear amplification of RNA, both of which have extended the application of gene expression assays. Illustrative examples in the field of cancer and neuroscience highlight the scientific achievements. This technology has made in understanding the pathogenesis of diseases, including breast cancer, Huntington's disease, and schizophrenia. With recent advances including exon arrays to investigate alternative splicing, tiling arrays to investigate novel transcription start sites, and on-chip chromatin immunoprecipitation to investigate DNA-protein interactions, the future of gene expression assays is set to further our understanding of the complexities of gene expression.
The plasma membrane of cells contains a variety of lipid and protein molecules that are often segregated and heterogeneously distributed in microdomains. Lipid rafts represent a generalized concept of membrane microdomains that are enriched in cholesterol and sphingolipids and, characteristically, resistant to cold detergent extraction. Lipid rafts have recently received considerable attention because they are thought to be involved in many cellular functions, in particular, signal transduction for extracellular stimuli. Many of these functions are also intimately related to the processes involved in neural development, including neurotrophic factor signaling and synaptic plasticity. Recent studies from our lab and others have indicated an important role for lipid rafts in axonal growth and guidance. Specifically, our data show that lipid rafts on the plasma membrane provide platforms for spatial and temporal control of guidance signaling by extracellular cues. In addition, lipid rafts may also function in other aspects of axonal growth and guidance, including spatial and temporal regulation of adhesion, cytoskeletal dynamics, and growth cone motility. Further elucidating how membrane rafts are involved in guided axonal growth would provide important insights into the intricate signaling mechanisms underlying neuronal wiring, which is fundamental for normal brain development and functional recovery after injury and diseases.
Despite a tremendous amount of progress in the identification and characterization of many new players as components of class 3 secreted semaphorin signaling in growth cone steering (Fig. 1), our understanding of the molecular mechanisms is far from complete. More questions remain to be answered: how are differential cytoskeletal changes within a growth cone achieved in response to semaphorins? What are the target(s) of cyclic nucleotide modulation? How does a growth cone make a reliable decision in response to a shallow gradient? And finally, how does a growth cone maintain its sensitivity to a decreasing concentration ofsemaphorins when it is growing away from the source? With a high degree of interest in the field with the development of novel technologies in analyzing growth cone steering, we expect to see a much more complete picture of semaphoring signaling in the near future.
MICALs (for Molecule Interacting with CasL) form a recently discovered family of evolutionary conserved signal transduction proteins. They contain multiple well-conserved domains known for interactions with the cytoskeleton, cytoskeletal adaptor proteins, and other signaling proteins. In addition to their ability to bind other proteins, MICALs contain a large NADPH-dependent flavoprotein monooxygenase enzymatic domain. Although MICALs have already been implicated in a variety of cellular processes, their function during axonal pathfinding in the Drosophila neuromuscular system has been best characterized. During the establishment of neuromuscular connectivity in the fruit fly, MICAL binds the axon guidance receptor Plexin A and transduces semaphorin-1a-mediated repulsive axon guidance. Intriguingly, mutagenesis and pharmacological inhibitor studies suggest a role for MICAL flavoenzyme redox functions in semaphorin/plexin-mediated axonal pathfinding events. This review summarizes our current understanding of MICALs, with an emphasis on their role in semaphorin signaling.
The immune system has evolved to protect the host from microbial infection; nevertheless, a breakdown in the immune system often results in infection, cancer, and autoimmune diseases. Multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, type 1 diabetes, inflammatory bowel disease, myocarditis, thyroiditis, uveitis, systemic lupus erythromatosis, and myasthenia gravis are organ-specific autoimmune diseases that afflict more than 5% of the population worldwide. Although the etiology is not known and a cure is still wanting, the use of herbal and dietary supplements is on the rise in patients with autoimmune diseases, mainly because they are effective, inexpensive, and relatively safe. Curcumin is a polyphenolic compound isolated from the rhizome of the plant Curcuma longa that has traditionally been used for pain and wound-healing. Recent studies have shown that curcumin ameliorates multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis, and inflammatory bowel disease in human or animal models. Curcumin inhibits these autoimmune diseases by regulating inflammatory cytokines such as IL-1beta, IL-6, IL-12, TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma and associated JAK-STAT, AP-1, and NF-kappaB signaling pathways in immune cells. Although the beneficial effects of nutraceuticals are traditionally achieved through dietary consumption at low levels for long periods of time, the use of purified active compounds such as curcumin at higher doses for therapeutic purposes needs extreme caution. A precise understanding of effective dose, safe regiment, and mechanism of action is required for the use of curcumin in the treatment of human autoimmune diseases.

As a well-characterized, genetically tractable animal, the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans is an ideal model to explore the connections between genes and the sexual regulation of the nervous system and behavior. The two sexes of C. elegans, males and hermaphrodites, have precisely defined differences in neuroanatomy: superimposed onto a &quot;core&quot; nervous system of exactly 294 neurons, hermaphrodites and males have 8 and 89 sex-specific neurons, respectively. These sex-specific neurons are essential for cognate sex-specific behaviors, including hermaphrodite egg-laying and male mating. In addition, regulated sex differences in the core nervous system itself may provide additional, though poorly understood, controls on behavior. These differences in the nervous system and behavior, like all known sex differences in the C. elegans soma, are controlled by the master regulator of C. elegans sex determination, tra-1. Downstream of tra-1 lie specific effectors of sex determination, including genes controlling sex-specific cell death and a family of regulators, the DM-domain genes, related to Drosophila doublesex and the vertebrate DMRT genes. There is no central (i.e., gonadal) regulator of sexual phenotype in the C. elegans nervous system; instead, tra-1 acts cell-autonomously in nearly all sexually dimorphic somatic cells. However, recent results suggest that the status of the gonad can be communicated to the nervous system to modulate sex-specific behaviors. Continuing research into the genetic control of neural sex differences in C. elegans is likely to yield insight into conserved mechanisms of cell-autonomous cross talk between cell fate patterning and sexual differentiation pathways.
An 89-year-old man presented with two separate minor stroke episodes due to high grade bilateral carotid stenoses, which were successfully treated with endovascular angioplasty and stenting. The role of operative interventions for high grade symptomatic carotid stenosis in patients aged over 80 years is discussed.
An efficacious intervention that results in young people living with HIV (YPLH) reducing their transmission risk has been identified. The present study identifies who is most likely to benefit from the intervention. Regression models were used to examine whether background contextual factors moderated the intervention's success. Percentage of protected sex was moderated by ethnicity, use of antiretroviral medications (ARV), healthcare utilization and mental health. Number of partners was moderated by anxiety and depression. When deciding if an intervention is appropriate and beneficial for an individual young person, consideration must be given to type of services the youth currently accesses and the youth's mental health.
We report a case of 46-year-old man who underwent endovascular coil embolization for left anterior inferior cerebellar and posterior inferior cerebellar aneurysms. During embolization of both aneurysms, thrombotic complications were observed along with a relative lack of response to heparin. Intra-arterial abciximab was used to recanalize an almost completely occluded posterior inferior cerebellar artery. A marked decrease in platelet counts was found soon after embolization, which normalized within a few days. Serologic tests confirmed heparin-induced thrombocytopenia. This syndrome should be considered in cases with thromboembolic complications during endovascular procedures, particularly in patients undergoing repeated heparin exposure. A sudden decrease in platelet counts and lack of response to heparin, manifested as a relative lack of increasing activated clotting time, should make one suspect this syndrome.


Native Americans as a group have the highest rates of alcohol-related deaths of all ethnicities in the United States; however, it remains unclear how and why a greater proportion of individuals in some Native American communities develop alcohol-related problems and alcohol use disorders (AUDs). One potential factor that can influence responses to alcohol are variations in alcohol-metabolizing enzymes. Researchers have analyzed the frequencies of variants in the alcohol-metabolizing enzymes alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) and aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) in some Native American populations. So far the studies have yielded no evidence that an ALDH2 variant, which has shown protective effects in other populations, is found in either American Indians or Alaska Natives. A variant of the ALDH1 enzyme that is encoded by the ALDH1A1*2 allele, however, was found in a small proportion of a group of Southwest California Indians and had a protective effect against alcoholism in that population. Furthermore, a variant of the ADH1B enzyme that is encoded by the ADH1B*3 allele was found in a similar proportion of Southwest California Indians and also was associated with a protective effect. However, these findings do not explain the high prevalence of alcoholism in the tribes investigated.
Expansion of the cerebral ventricles may occur at an accelerated rate in subjects with dementia, but the time course of expansion during transitions between normal cognitive function, mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and dementia is not well understood. Furthermore, the effects of cardiovascular risk factors on rate of ventricular expansion are unclear. We used a fully automated segmentation technique to measure change rate in lateral ventricle-to-brain ratio (VBR) on 145 longitudinal pairs of magnetic resonance images of subjects in the Cardiovascular Health Study Cognition Study from the Pittsburgh Center. A multivariate model analyzed VBR change rate, accounting for dementia statuses at both imaging times (normal, MCI, or dementia), age, sex, education, race, magnetic resonance-defined infarcts, Center for Epidemiology Studies Depression Scale, baseline ventricular volume, and cardiovascular risk factors. VBR change was faster in subjects who were demented or transitioned from MCI to dementia, compared with subjects normal at both images and subjects who transitioned from normal to MCI or dementia. Patients with diabetes had faster VBR change. Ventricular expansion may accelerate late in the progression from normal cognitive function to dementia, and may be modulated by diabetes.


A preliminary review of substance abuse treatment admission data from 2001-2005 was conducted to explore the use of methamphetamine among American Indians in treatment programs funded by Los Angeles County. Comparisons were made between primary methamphetamine users and users whose primary drug was a substance other than methamphetamine. In that period, the number of American Indians reporting methamphetamine as their primary drug in Los Angeles County significantly increased, particularly among females.






Personhood is a foundational concept in ethics, yet defining criteria have been elusive. In this article we summarize attempts to define personhood in psychological and neurological terms and conclude that none manage to be both specific and non-arbitrary. We propose that this is because the concept does not correspond to any real category of objects in the world. Rather, it is the product of an evolved brain system that develops innately and projects itself automatically and irrepressibly onto the world whenever triggered by stimulus features such as a human-like face, body, or contingent patterns of behavior. We review the evidence for the existence of an autonomous person network in the brain and discuss its implications for the field of ethics and for the implicit morality of everyday behavior.


There continues to be a debate on whether addiction is best understood as a brain disease or a moral condition. This debate, which may influence both the stigma attached to addiction and access to treatment, is often motivated by the question of whether and to what extent we can justly hold addicted individuals responsible for their actions. In fact, there is substantial evidence for a disease model, but the disease model per se does not resolve the question of voluntary control. Recent research at the intersection of neuroscience and psychology suggests that addicted individuals have substantial impairments in cognitive control of behavior, but this &quot;loss of control&quot; is not complete or simple. Possible mechanisms and implications are briefly reviewed.


Transient ischemic attack (TIA) is a precursor to ischemic stroke. At least half of patients with TIA have a new, small ischemic lesion demonstrable on magnetic resonance imaging using a diffusion weighted sequence. The risk of subsequent major stroke is 10-20% in the next 3 months with much of that risk front-loaded in the first week. Strategies to identify and treat high-risk patients need to be defined. The optimal treatment approach and the timing of interventions, both medical and surgical, remains unknown. In general, aspirin is the first line of treatment to prevent further stroke. Other antiplatelet agents such as clopidogrel alone or in combination with aspirin and the combination aspirin/extended-release dipyridamole may be administered. Endarterectomy or carotid stenting is of great benefit to patients with TIA secondary to stenosis in the extracranial carotid artery.

The aim of this study was to compare temperamental profiles of patients who completed inpatient treatment of drug dependence with those who failed to complete the program. One hundred forty four opiate addicts, all resident in therapeutic communities and screened to exclude Axis I disorders, were assessed using the Temperament and Character Inventory (TCI). After one year, the TCI scores were compared between those who were still resident and those who had dropped out. Significant differences between groups were found in Reward Dependence, Persistence, Cooperativeness, Self-Transcendence. Temperament and character features may have an influence on motivation and on the adherence to treatment and community rules, as they modulate the maintenance of ongoing behaviors and the sensitivity to social rewards. The findings suggest that personality assessment with TCI in opiate addicts may be helpful in screening procedures to increase the efficiency of treatment and rehabilitative strategies.
Mental health (MH) hospital admissions were investigated in a cohort (N=1184) of heroin dependent persons using linked health records. All MH in-patient admissions were extracted 36 months before to 36 months after commencing rapid opioid detoxification (ROD) and oral naltrexone. Results show that the incidence rate ratio (IRR) of drug-related and other MH admissions peaked in the 3 months immediately prior to treatment. All categories subsequently declined to baseline levels by 36 months following treatment. The authors conclude that treatment for heroin dependence reduces risk of MH admissions.
ZIP models were used to detect reductions in drug abuse among young people living with HIV (YPLH) over 15 months when most young people abstain from use. YPLH (n = 171) aged 16 to 29 years were randomly assigned to an 18 session intervention or a delayed-intervention condition. The ZIP models showed significant reductions in abuse of multiple substances over time in the non-delayed intervention. Previous analyses did not find significant reductions. Intervention efficacy often cannot be detected if there are highly skewed distributions of outcomes, such as drug abuse. ZIP modeling offers an opportunity to more reliably detect behavioral changes.








Repeated inflammation in the heart is one of the initiation factors of dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM). In a previous study, we established a new animal model for DCM by immunization of rats with recombinant cardiac C-protein fragment 2 (CC2). The present study examined factors involved in the development of DCM. Analysis using overlapping peptides revealed that the major carditogenic epitope resides only in the residue 615-647 [CC2 peptide 12 (CC2P12)]. However, immunization with CC2P12 induced moderate inflammation without subsequent DCM. CDR3 spectratyping analysis of the T-cell repertoire demonstrated that Vbeta4-positive T cells were preferentially expanded in both CC2- and CC2P12-immunized rats. Although there was no significant difference in the T-cell characteristics, examinations of the B-cell epitope revealed that marked epitope spreading occurred in CC2-immunized but not CC2P12-immunized rats from 4 weeks after immunization. Consistent with this finding, immunization with CC2P12 and simultaneous transfer of anti-peptide antisera induced significantly more severe inflammation and fibrosis than CC2P12 immunization alone. However, the transfer of the antisera without CC2P12 immunization did not induce any pathology. These findings suggest that T-cell activation and B-cell epitope spreading in the CC2 molecule is a key step for the switch from myocarditis to the development of DCM.
The rate and pattern of rectal distension affect rectal distensibility, perception, and anal relaxation in health. Because rectal urgency is a prominent symptom in fecal incontinence (FI), we assessed rectal distensibility, contractions, perception, and anal pressures during rectal distention in 21 healthy, asymptomatic women (age 61 +/- 2 yr, mean +/- SE) and 51 women with FI (60 +/- 2 yr). Rectal staircases (0-32 mmHg, 4-mm steps) and ramp distensions [0-200 ml at 25, 50, and 100 ml/min with a phase of sustained distension (SD), lasting 1 min, between inflation and deflation]. The rectum was stiffer during rapid than slow ramp distention. This effect was more prominent at a lower volume (50 ml) and was also more pronounced in older subjects and in FI. A rectal contractile response was observed not only during inflation but also during SD and during deflation. During inflation, this contractile response was rate dependent in controls but not in FI. During staircase but not ramp distentions, the threshold for the desire to defecate was lower in FI. During ramp distentions, the duration of perception was significantly longer in FI. The rate of distention did not affect rectal perception (i.e., sensory thresholds or duration of perception) during ramp distentions. Baseline anal pressures and the magnitude of anal relaxation during rectal distention were also reduced in FI. In addition to reduced rectal capacity and compliance, women with FI had an exaggerated rate-dependent reduction in rectal distensibility, lower sensory thresholds, and more prolonged perception, indicative of rectoanal dysfunctions.
Marked increases in the consumption of concentrated NaCl solution were elicited in rats by daily injection of the synthetic mineralocorticoid, deoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA). DOCA-treated rats drank different volumes of NaCl solution depending on its concentration (between 0.15 M and 0.50 M), with less consumed (in milliliters) the more concentrated the fluid was. In consequence, total Na(+) intake (in milliequivalents) was roughly similar in all groups. Gastric emptying of Na(+) also diminished as the concentration of the ingested NaCl solution increased, and the delivery of Na(+) to the small intestine was remarkably similar in all groups. Cumulative volume of ingested fluid in the stomach and small intestine was very closely related to intake (in milliliters) of the concentrated NaCl solutions. Systemic plasma Na(+) levels did not increase until after rats stopped consuming concentrated NaCl solution, although they were elevated at the onset of water ingestion. The situation appeared to be different when 0.15 M NaCl was consumed. This isotonic solution emptied and was absorbed relatively rapidly, and DOCA-treated rats drank larger amounts of it throughout a 1-h test period than when they drank concentrated NaCl solutions. Collectively, these findings suggest that saline consumption by DOCA-treated rats may be inhibited by two presystemic factors, one related to the volume of ingested fluid (i.e., distension of the stomach and small intestine) and one related to its concentration (i.e., elevated osmolality of fluid in the small intestine and/or in adjacent visceral tissue).
Ghrelin, a gut-brain peptide, is best known for its role in the stimulation of feeding and growth hormone release. In the brain, orexin, neuropeptide Y (NPY), and ghrelin are parts of a food intake regulatory circuit. Orexin and NPY are also implicated in maintaining wakefulness. Previous experiments in our laboratory revealed that intracerebroventricular injections of ghrelin induce wakefulness in rats. To further elucidate the possible role of ghrelin in the regulation of arousal, we studied the effects of microinjections of ghrelin into hypothalamic sites, which are implicated in the regulation of feeding and sleep, such as the lateral hypothalamus (LH), medial preoptic area (MPA), and paraventricular nucleus (PVN) on sleep in rats. Sleep responses, motor activity, and food intake after central administration of 0.04, 0.2, or 1 mug (12, 60, or 300 pmol) ghrelin were recorded. Microinjections of ghrelin into the LH had strong wakefulness-promoting effects lasting for 2 h. Wakefulness was also stimulated by ghrelin injection into the MPA and PVN; the effects were confined to the first hour after the injection. Ghrelin's non-rapid-eye-movement sleep-suppressive effect was accompanied by attenuation in the electroencephalographic (EEG) slow-wave activity and changes in the EEG power spectrum. Food consumption was significantly stimulated after microinjections of ghrelin into each hypothalamic site. Together, these results are consistent with the hypothesis that forebrain ghrelinergic mechanisms play a role in the regulation of vigilance, possibly through activating the components of the food intake- and arousal-promoting network formed by orexin and NPY.
The kidney of vertebrates plays a key role in excretion of endogenous waste products and xenobiotics. Active secretion in the proximal nephron is at the basis of this excretion, mediated by carrier proteins including multidrug resistance protein 2 (Mrp2). We previously showed that Mrp2 function is reduced by endothelin-1 (ET-1) through a basolateral B-type receptor, nitric oxide (NO), cGMP, and PKC (Notenboom S, Miller DS, Smits P, Russel FGM, Masereeuw R. Am J Physiol Renal Physiol 282: F458-F464, 2002; Notenboom S, Miller DS, Smits P, Russel FG, Masereeuw R. Am J Physiol Renal Physiol 287: F33-F38, 2004). This pathway was rapidly activated by several nephrotoxicants and appeared to be calcium dependent. In the present study, we studied the effect of the calciotropic hormones parathyroid hormone (PTH), PTH-related protein (PTHrP), and stanniocalcin (STC) to interfere with ET-regulated Mrp2 transport. Like ET-1, PTH reduces Mrp2-mediated transport by 40% in killifish renal proximal tubules. When given in combination, an additive effect was seen, which is partially reversed by the PKC inhibitor calphostin C. Recombinant PTHrP shows a comparable inhibitory effect, which is concentration dependent and additive to the inhibition by ET. STC fully reverses PTHrP-inhibited transport as does a guanylyl cyclase inhibitor. Finally, to confirm PTHrP bioactivity in a homologous assay, we performed immunolocalization and transport studies in sea bream kidney tubules. Mrp2 immunoreactivity was observed in approximately 40% of the tubules and is associated with the brush-border and apical plasma membrane of cells. Both proximal tubules and distal (collecting) tubules express the antigen. A highly significant 40% inhibition of Mrp2-mediated transport was observed with PTHrP in sea bream tubules. In conclusion, ET-regulated Mrp2 transport is influenced by calciotropic hormones and involves PKC and cGMP signaling.



Quilty effect (QE) is a frequent, yet enigmatic feature of cardiac allograft, since it is apparently devoid of clinical significance, though its association with acute (A) rejection (R) is strongly suspected. It was observed in 126/379 biopsies from 22 patients during the first posttransplant year. Most grade (G)2R biopsies displayed a concomitant QE. The following features typical of QE were identified: (a) focal angiogenesis and lymphangiogenesis associated with bFGF, VEGF-C and VEGF-A expression, (b) marked infiltrate of CD4(+)T and CD20(+)B followed by CD8(+)T lymphocytes arranged around PNAd(+)HEV-like vessels. Most QE appear as distinct B-T-cell-specific areas with lymphoid follicles sometimes endowed with germinal center-like structures containing VCAM-1(+)CD21(+)FDC and CD68(+)macrophages, which frequently expressed CXCL13. These cells were also found in mantle-like zones, where small lymphocytes expressed CXCR5, otherwise in the whole area of not clustered lymphoid aggregates. CXCL13 was also expressed, in association with CD20(+)B lymphocyte recruitment, in G2R biopsies obtained from patients with recurrent AR. QE has features of a tertiary lymphoid tissue suggesting an attempt, by the heart allograft, to mount a local response to a persistent alloantigen stimulation resulting in aberrant CXCL13 production, as also occurs in recurrent AR. CXCL13-CXCR5 emerge as a common molecular pathway for QE and recurrent episodes of AR.
In this report, we provide an evidence-based overview of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), including diagnosis, prevalence, developmental expression of symptoms, persistence, the heterogeneity of functional outcome, impairment in afflicted adults, psychiatric comorbidity, pathophysiology, genetics, psychosocial and biologic risk factors, and neurobiology. Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder is an early-onset, highly prevalent neurobehavioral disorder, with genetic, environmental, and biologic etiologies, that persists into adolescence and adulthood in a sizable majority of afflicted children of both sexes. It is characterized by behavioral symptoms of inattention, hyperactivity, and impulsivity across the life cycle and is associated with considerable morbidity and disability. Comorbidity is a distinct clinical feature of both childhood and adult ADHD. Although its etiology remains unclear, emerging evidence documents its strong neurobiologic and genetic underpinnings. Despite the high diagnostic reliability and the robust evidence of the validity of ADHD, there are many underlying issues that remain to be resolved. These include establishing developmentally appropriate diagnostic criteria at older ages, further elaborating the impact of gender on symptom expression, and examining risk and protective factors in relationship to prevention or amelioration of ADHD as well as related functional impairments.
This paper discusses a set of closely related parenting and family factors that should be considered when planning and measuring the outcome of interventions for children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). These include parenting and parent-child relationships, parental cognitions, parental adjustment, marital interactions, general family relationships, and adaptive child functioning within the family. The measurement of each construct is discussed, and comparative, longitudinal, and treatment outcome studies using these measures are reviewed. It is concluded that measures of treatment outcome for children with ADHD could be improved by utilizing multiple informants, developing tools with greater content and contextual validity, relying more on observational methods, and identifying those measures which are of greatest importance to families. Given the multiple pathways via which both psychosocial and pharmacological interventions exert their influence, composite measures combining multi-informant, multimethod constructs may represent more useful measures of treatment outcome than measures of primary ADHD symptoms.
The amino acid glutamate, the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system, activates receptors coupled to calcium influx. Excessive activation of glutamate receptors in conditions such as severe epileptic seizures or stroke can kill neurons in a process called excitotoxicity. However, subtoxic levels of activation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) type of glutamate receptor elicit adaptive responses in neurons that enhance their ability to withstand more severe stress. A variety of stimuli induce adaptive responses to protect neurons. For example, sublethal ischemic episodes or a mild epileptic insult can protect neurons in a process referred to as tolerance. The molecular mechanisms that protect neurons by these different stressful stimuli are largely unknown but they share common features such as the transcription factor, nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB), which is activated by ischemic and epileptic preconditioning as well as exposure to subtoxic NMDA concentrations. In this article, we describe stress-induced neuroprotective mechanisms highlighting the role of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), a protein that plays a crucial role in neuronal survival and maintenance, neurogenesis and learning and memory.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of pegylated interferon-alpha (PEG-IFN-alpha) on the plasma citrulline/arginine ratio, regarded as an index of nitric oxide (NO) synthesis, in patients with high-risk melanoma. Forty patients were randomly assigned to either PEG-IFN-alpha treatment (n = 22) or to observation only (control group, n = 18). The treatment group received 6 microg PEG-IFN-alpha/kg once a week during 8 weeks, followed by a maintenance dose of 3 microg/kg/wk. Blood was collected at different time points, plasma concentrations of citrulline and arginine were measured and the ratio of citrulline/arginine was calculated. Patients treated with PEG-IFN-alpha showed a significant decrease in the concentrations of citrulline and in the citrulline/arginine ratio during the whole study period, both compared to baseline values and to the control group. The data suggest that therapy with PEG-IFN-alpha results in a marked decrease in the synthesis of NO in melanoma patients.

Because variability exists within populations of cells, single-cell analysis has become increasingly important for probing complex cellular environments. Capillary electrophoresis (CE) is an excellent technique for identifying and quantifying the contents of single cells owing to its small volume requirements and fast, efficient separations with highly sensitive detection. Recent progress in both whole-cell and subcellular sampling has allowed researchers to study cellular function in the areas of neuroscience, oncology, enzymology, immunology, and gene expression.
A real-time observation of neurotransmitter release from a nerve cell is a useful method for not only neuroscience research, but also assessing of the influence of chemicals, including drugs, on the human nervous system. In this study, a more simple and sensitive method for real-time monitoring of dopamine release from a nerve model cell was developed. Highly sensitive detection of dopamine was performed by using tyramine oxidase for dopamine oxidation, which was followed by a luminol luminescence reaction. This enzyme-catalyzed luminescence method was applied to observe dopamine release from the PC12 cell as a nerve model cell upon stimulation with acetylcholine and an acetylcholine receptor agonist. The results demonstrated that the real-time monitoring of the activation of the PC12 cell was easily performed by this method. This method possessed many advantages, such as high sensitivity, rapid measurement and no pretreatment for cells. It might be applied to drug screening and the assessment of harmful influences of food additives and pesticides on the nerves.
The cetacean brain has long been of scientific interest, not only because of its large size - the largest in the animal kingdom - but also because of its high gyrification. It shows several adaptations to the aquatic environment, especially in the cortical arrangements of functional areas. To study structural aspects of the mysticete brain we estimated neocortical features in the common minke whale using stereological methods. The neocortex was surprisingly thick, equal to that in humans. The total neocortical neuron number was 12.8 x 10(9), and the total neocortical glia number 98.2 x 10(9). Total cell numbers in the auditory and visual cortex were also estimated, and showed that the auditory cortex contained more cells than the visual cortex. In this small sample, no sexual dimorphism was seen within the neocortex of the common minke whale. Our aim was to estimate the total cell number, cortical volume and cell density in the entire mysticete neocortex and compare the total cell number in the auditory cortex with that of the visual cortex using stereological methods. Here, we used the common minke whale as a model of all mysticetes. We wanted to compare these neocortical features to those of other mammals to forward understanding of the evolution of the mammalian brain.
Cetaceans diverged from terrestrial mammals between 50 and 60 million years ago and acquired, during their adaptation to a fully aquatic milieu, many derived features, including echolocation (in odontocetes), remarkable auditory and communicative abilities, as well as a complex social organization. Whereas brain structure has been documented in detail in some odontocetes, few reports exist on its organization in mysticetes. We studied the cerebral cortex of the humpback whale (Megaptera novaeangliae) in comparison to another balaenopterid, the fin whale, and representative odontocetes. We observed several differences between Megaptera and odontocetes, such as a highly clustered organization of layer II over the occipital and inferotemporal neocortex, whereas such pattern is restricted to the ventral insula in odontocetes. A striking observation in Megaptera was the presence in layer V of the anterior cingulate, anterior insular, and frontopolar cortices of large spindle cells, similar in morphology and distribution to those described in hominids, suggesting a case of parallel evolution. They were also observed in the fin whale and the largest odontocetes, but not in species with smaller brains or body size. The hippocampal formation, unremarkable in odontocetes, is further diminutive in Megaptera, contrasting with terrestrial mammals. As in odontocetes, clear cytoarchitectural patterns exist in the neocortex of Megaptera, making it possible to define many cortical domains. These observations demonstrate that Megaptera differs from Odontoceti in certain aspects of cortical cytoarchitecture and may provide a neuromorphologic basis for functional and behavioral differences between the suborders as well as a reflection of their divergent evolution.

Prion diseases are degenerative disorders of the central nervous system characterized by cerebral protein aggregation and deposition. A cellular glycoprotein, PrP(C) is converted in an altered isoform, PrP(Sc), that accumulates in the brain, and is believed to be responsible for the neuronal loss observed in prion diseases. The synthetic peptide PrP(106-126) shares many characteristics with PrP(Sc) and is largely used to explore the toxic mechanisms underlying prion diseases. In this article we analyzed the neurotoxic effects of PrP(106-126) in primary rat brain cortical neurons, correlating these results with the presence of amyloid plaques in cultures. Incubation of cells with PrP(106-126), 25 muM, for 2 days did not significantly decrease neuronal viability, although we have observed an increase of basal intracellular calcium levels, reactive oxygen species (ROS) formation, and lipid peroxidation. The presence of congophylic and thioflavin S-amyloid-positive plaques in cortical cultures was only observed after a 5-day-treatment period, correlating with a significant decrease of neuronal viability, as assessed by 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) leakage. The data obtained support the idea that PrP(106-126) aggregates in vitro and that the aggregation state is important for its neurotoxicity but also suggest that this synthetic peptide, even when is not aggregated in vitro, can compromise cell homeostasis.
Altered metabolism of the Alzheimer's amyloid precursor protein (APP) appears to be a key event in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD), and both altered phosphorylation and oxidative stress appear to affect the production of the toxic Abeta fragment. Our results show that altered processing of APP was observed under conditions of stress induced by sodium azide in the presence of 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2DG). As previously reported, the production of the secreted fragment of APP (sAPP) was inhibited. Using APP-GFP fusion proteins, we show that 2DG causes the accumulation/delay of APP in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)/Golgi (G). The 751 isoform accumulated preferentially in the G, whereas the 695 isoform was blocked preferentially at the ER. This effect was augmented in the presence of sodium azide. APP subcellular distribution was also affected at the plasma membrane. The involvement of protein phosphorylation in APP subcellular localization was reinforced by the effect of drugs, such as phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA), since APP was completely depleted from the membrane in the presence of 2DG and PMA. Thus, the hypothesis that APP is processed in a phosphorylation-dependent manner and that this may be of clinical relevance appears to hold true even under stress conditions. Our results provide evidence for a role of protein phosphorylation in APP sorting under stress conditions and contribute to the understanding of the molecular basis of AD.
Noninvasive brain stimulation with transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) or transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is valuable in research and has potential therapeutic applications in cognitive neuroscience, neurophysiology, psychiatry, and neurology. TMS allows neurostimulation and neuromodulation, while tDCS is a purely neuromodulatory application. TMS and tDCS allow diagnostic and interventional neurophysiology applications, and focal neuropharmacology delivery. However, the physics and basic mechanisms of action remain incompletely explored. Following an overview of the history and current applications of noninvasive brain stimulation, we review stimulation device design principles, the electromagnetic and physical foundations of the techniques, and the current knowledge about the electrophysiologic basis of the effects. Finally, we discuss potential biomedical and electrical engineering developments that could lead to more effective stimulation devices, better suited for the specific applications.
Neuronal motility is a fundamental feature that underlies the development, regeneration, and plasticity of the nervous system. Two major developmental events--directed migration of neuronal precursor cells to the proper positions and guided elongation of axons to their target cells--depend on large-scale neuronal motility. At a finer scale, motility is also manifested in many aspects of neuronal structures and functions, ranging from differentiation and refinement of axonal and dendritic morphology during development to synapse remodeling associated with learning and memory in the adult brain. As a primary second messenger that conveys the cytoplasmic actions of electrical activity and many neuroactive ligands, Ca(2+) plays a central role in the regulation of neuronal motility. Recent studies have revealed common Ca(2+)-dependent signaling pathways that are deployed for regulating cytoskeletal dynamics associated with neuronal migration, axon and dendrite development and regeneration, and synaptic plasticity.
Semaphorin proteins, although initially characterized as repulsive neuronal guidance cues, are now appreciated as major contributors to morphogenesis and homeostasis for a wide range of tissue types. Semaphorin-mediated long- and short-range repulsive, and attractive, guidance has profound influences on cellular morphology. The diversity of semaphorin receptor complexes utilized by various semaphorin ligands, the ability of semaphorins themselves to serve as receptors, and the myriad of intracellular signaling components that comprise semaphorin signaling cascades all contribute to cell-type-specific responses to semaphorins. Analysis of the molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying semaphorin function in neural and vascular systems provides insight into principles governing how this large protein family contributes to organogenesis, function, and disease.
Since the introduction of Linehan's treatment manuals in 1993, dialectical behavior therapy (DBT) has been widely disseminated throughout multiple therapeutic settings and applied to a variety of diagnoses. The enthusiasm with which it was embraced by clinicians early on led some to question whether DBT's popularity was outstripping its empirical foundation. Most of the specific concerns raised regarding DBT's early empirical base have been meaningfully addressed in subsequent randomized controlled trials. This review provides a brief introduction to DBT, followed by a critical appraisal of empirical support for the treatment and a discussion of current research trends.
Cognitive impairment in schizophrenia is a core feature of the illness (i.e., not a result of clinical symptoms or drug treatments) that is related to the daily functioning of patients. Because schizophrenia is associated with poor community functioning, there is considerable interest in finding treatments to improve cognition in schizophrenia in the hopes that such improvement will yield functional benefits. Before the U.S. Food and Drug Administration could consider granting approval to any new drug for improving cognition in schizophrenia, it was first necessary to achieve consensus on the measurements and methods that would be used in clinical trials, as well as neuropharmacological targets. The U.S. National Institute of Mental Health launched an initiative to help address these obstacles to drug approval (MATRICS). This initiative has generated several additional follow-up initiatives including a clinical trial network and consensus projects for other clinical targets, such as negative symptoms. This review describes how an area that was primarily of academic interest (cognition in schizophrenia) became a focus of public health concerns and drug-development policy.
The study of decision making spans such varied fields as neuroscience, psychology, economics, statistics, political science, and computer science. Despite this diversity of applications, most decisions share common elements including deliberation and commitment. Here we evaluate recent progress in understanding how these basic elements of decision formation are implemented in the brain. We focus on simple decisions that can be studied in the laboratory but emphasize general principles likely to extend to other settings.
Functional and structural neuroimaging studies of adult readers have provided a deeper understanding of the neural basis of reading, yet such findings also elicit new questions about how developing neural systems come to support this learned ability. A developmental cognitive neuroscience approach provides insights into how skilled reading emerges in the developing brain, yet also raises new methodological challenges. This review focuses on functional changes that occur during reading acquisition in cortical regions associated with both the perception of visual words and spoken language, and it examines how such functional changes differ within developmental reading disabilities. We integrate these findings within an interactive specialization framework of functional development and propose that such a framework may provide insights into how individual differences at several levels of observation (genetics, white matter tract structure, functional organization of language, cultural organization of writing systems) impact the emergence of neural systems involved in reading ability and disability.
Many lesion studies report an amazing variety of deficits in behavioral functions that cannot possibly be encoded in great detail by the relatively small number of midbrain dopamine neurons. Although hoping to unravel a single dopamine function underlying these phenomena, electrophysiological and neurochemical studies still give a confusing, mutually exclusive, and partly contradictory account of dopamine's role in behavior. However, the speed of observed phasic dopamine changes varies several thousand fold, which offers a means to differentiate the behavioral relationships according to their time courses. Thus dopamine is involved in mediating the reactivity of the organism to the environment at different time scales, from fast impulse responses related to reward via slower changes with uncertainty, punishment, and possibly movement to the tonic enabling of postsynaptic motor, cognitive, and motivational systems deficient in Parkinson's disease.
The blood brain barrier (BBB) evolved to preserve the microenvironment of the highly excitable neuronal cells to allow for action potential generation and propagation. Intricate molecular interactions between two main cell types, the neurons and the glial cells, form the underlying basis of the critical functioning of the nervous system across species. In invertebrates, interactions between neurons and glial cells are central in establishing a functional BBB. However, in vertebrates, the BBB formation and function is coordinated by interactions between neurons, glial cells, and endothelial cells. Here we review the neuron-glial interaction-based blood barriers in invertebrates and vertebrates and provide an evolutionary perspective as to how a glial-barrier system in invertebrates evolved into an endothelial barrier system. We also summarize the clinical relevance of the BBB as this protective barrier becomes disadvantageous in the pharmacological treatment of various neurological disorders.
The mammalian central nervous system (CNS) requires the proper formation of exquisitely precise circuits to function correctly. These neuronal circuits are assembled during development by the formation of synaptic connections between thousands of differentiating neurons. Proper synapse formation during childhood provides the substrate for cognition, whereas improper formation or function of these synapses leads to neurodevelopmental disorders, including mental retardation and autism. Recent work has begun to identify some of the early cellular events in synapse formation as well as the molecular signals that initiate this process. However, despite the wealth of information published on this topic in the past few years, some of the most fundamental questions about how, whether, and where glutamatergic synapses form in the mammalian CNS remain unanswered. This review focuses on the dynamic aspects of the early cellular and molecular events in the initial assembly of glutamatergic synapses in the mammalian CNS.
Damage to orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) produces an unusual pattern of deficits. Patients have intact cognitive abilities but are impaired in making everyday decisions. Here we review anatomical, neuropsychological, and neurophysiological evidence to determine the neuronal mechanisms that might underlie these impairments. We suggest that OFC plays a key role in processing reward: It integrates multiple sources of information regarding the reward outcome to derive a value signal. In effect, OFC calculates how rewarding a reward is. This value signal can then be held in working memory where it can be used by lateral prefrontal cortex to plan and organize behavior toward obtaining the outcome, and by medial prefrontal cortex to evaluate the overall action in terms of its success and the effort that was required. Thus, acting together, these prefrontal areas can ensure that our behavior is most efficiently directed towards satisfying our needs.
Navigation first requires accurate perception of one's spatial orientation within the environment, which consists of knowledge about location and directional heading. Cells within several limbic system areas of the mammalian brain discharge allocentrically as a function of the animal's directional heading, independent of the animal's location and ongoing behavior. These cells are referred to as head direction (HD) cells and are believed to encode the animal's perceived directional heading with respect to its environment. Although HD cells are found in several areas, the principal circuit for generating this signal originates in the dorsal tegmental nucleus and projects serially, with some reciprocal connections, to the lateral mammillary nucleus --&gt; anterodorsal thalamus --&gt; PoS, and terminates in the entorhinal cortex. HD cells receive multimodal information about landmarks and self-generated movements. Vestibular information appears critical for generating the directional signal, but motor/proprioceptive and landmark information are important for updating it.
Solute carrier 6 (SLC6) is a gene family of ion-coupled plasma membrane cotransporters, including transporters of neurotransmitters, amino acids, and osmolytes that mediate the movement of their substrates into cells to facilitate or regulate synaptic transmission, neurotransmitter recycling, metabolic function, and fluid homeostasis. Polymorphisms in transporter genes may influence expression and activity of transporters and contribute to behavior, traits, and disease. Determining the relationship between the monoamine transporters and complex psychiatric disorders has been a particular challenge that is being met by evolving approaches. Elucidating the functional consequences of and interactions among polymorphic sites is advancing our understanding of this relationship. Examining the influence of environmental influences, especially early-life events, has helped bridge the gap between genotype and phenotype. Refining phenotypes, through assessment of endophenotypes, specific behavioral tasks, medication response, and brain network properties has also improved detection of the impact of genetic variation on complex behavior and disease.
Subtypes of neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are constructed from numerous subunit combinations that compose channel-receptor complexes with varied functional and pharmacological characteristics. Structural and functional diversity and the broad presynaptic, postsynaptic, and nonsynaptic locations of nAChRs underlie their mainly modulatory roles throughout the mammalian brain. Presynaptic and preterminal nicotinic receptors enhance neurotransmitter release, postsynaptic nAChRs contribute a small minority of fast excitatory transmission, and nonsynaptic nAChRs modulate many neurotransmitter systems by influencing neuronal excitability. Nicotinic receptors have roles in development and synaptic plasticity, and nicotinic mechanisms participate in learning, memory, and attention. Decline, disruption, or alterations of nicotinic cholinergic mechanisms contribute to dysfunctions such as epilepsy, schizophrenia, Parkinson's disease, autism, dementia with Lewy bodies, Alzheimer's disease, and addiction.
The past few decades have revealed that cell death can be precisely programmed with two principal forms, apoptosis and necrosis. Besides pathophysiological alterations, physiologic processes, such as the pruning of neurons during normal development and the involution of the thymus, involve apoptosis. This review focuses on the role of inter- and intracellular signaling systems in cell death, especially in the nervous system. Among neurotransmitters, glutamate and nitric oxide have been most extensively characterized and contribute to cell death in excitotoxic damage, especially in stroke and possibly in neurodegenerative diseases. Within cells, calcium, the most prominent of all intracellular messengers, mediates diverse forms of cell death with actions modulated by many proteins, including IP3 receptors, calcineurin, calpain, and cytochrome c.
This review investigates some key aspects of transport mechanisms and recent advances in our understanding of this ubiquitous cellular process. The prevailing model of cotransport is the alternating access model, which suggests that large conformational changes in the transporter protein accompany cotransport. This model rests on decades of research and has received substantial support because many transporter characteristics are explained using its premises. New experiments, however, have revealed the existence of channels in transporters, an idea that is in conflict with traditional models. The alternating access model is the subject of previous detailed reviews. Here we concentrate on the relatively recent data that document primarily the channel properties of transporters. In some cases, namely, the observation of single-transporter currents, the evidence is direct. In other cases the evidence--for example, from fluctuation analysis or transporter currents too large to be described as anything other than channel-like--is indirect. Although the existence of channels in transporters is not in doubt, we are far from understanding the significance of this property. In the online Supplemental Material , we review some pertinent aspects of ion channel theory and cotransport physiology to provide background for the channels and transporters presented here. We discuss the existence of channels in transporters, and we speculate on the biological significance of this newly unveiled property of transport proteins.
As Titchener pointed out more than one hundred years ago, attention is at the center of the psychological enterprise. Attention research investigates how voluntary control and subjective experience arise from and regulate our behavior. In recent years, attention has been one of the fastest growing of all fields within cognitive psychology and cognitive neuroscience. This review examines attention as characterized by linking common neural networks with individual differences in their efficient utilization. The development of attentional networks is partly specified by genes, but is also open to specific experiences through the actions of caregivers and the culture. We believe that the connection between neural networks, genes, and socialization provides a common approach to all aspects of human cognition and emotion. Pursuit of this approach can provide a basis for psychology that unifies social, cultural, differential, experimental, and physiological areas, and allows normal development to serve as a baseline for understanding various forms of pathology. D.O. Hebb proposed this approach 50 years ago in his volume Organization of Behavior and continued with introductory textbooks that dealt with all of the topics of psychology in a common framework. Use of a common network approach to psychological science may allow a foundation for predicting and understanding human behavior in its varied forms.
Social cognitive neuroscience examines social phenomena and processes using cognitive neuroscience research tools such as neuroimaging and neuropsychology. This review examines four broad areas of research within social cognitive neuroscience: (a) understanding others, (b) understanding oneself, (c) controlling oneself, and (d) the processes that occur at the interface of self and others. In addition, this review highlights two core-processing distinctions that can be neurocognitively identified across all of these domains. The distinction between automatic versus controlled processes has long been important to social psychological theory and can be dissociated in the neural regions contributing to social cognition. Alternatively, the differentiation between internally-focused processes that focus on one's own or another's mental interior and externally-focused processes that focus on one's own or another's visible features and actions is a new distinction. This latter distinction emerges from social cognitive neuroscience investigations rather than from existing psychological theories demonstrating that social cognitive neuroscience can both draw on and contribute to social psychological theory.
Persistent and vexing health disadvantages accrue to African Americans despite decades of work to erase the effects of race discrimination in this country. Participating in these efforts, psychologists and other social scientists have hypothesized that African Americans' continuing experiences with racism and discrimination may lie at the root of the many well-documented race-based physical health disparities that affect this population. With newly emerging methodologies in both measurement of contextual factors and functional neuroscience, an opportunity now exists to cleave together a comprehensive understanding of the ways in which discrimination has harmful effects on health. In this article, we review emerging work that locates the cause of race-based health disparities in the external effects of the contextual social space on the internal world of brain functioning and physiologic response. These approaches reflect the growing interdisciplinary nature of psychology in general, and the field of race relations in particular.
Recent theory and research are reviewed regarding self-related motives (self-enhancement, self-verification, and self-expansion) and self-conscious emotions (guilt, shame, pride, social anxiety, and embarrassment), with an emphasis on how these motivational and emotional aspects of the self might be related. Specifically, these motives and emotions appear to function to protect people's social well-being. The motives to self-enhance, self-verify, and self-expand are partly rooted in people's concerns with social approval and acceptance, and self-conscious emotions arise in response to events that have real or imagined implications for others' judgments of the individual. Thus, these motives and emotions do not operate to maintain certain states of the self, as some have suggested, but rather to facilitate people's social interactions and relationships.
The direct and indirect regulation, as well as the mechanisms of apoptosis in the nervous tissue and their implications in the treatment and prognosis of brain tumors are reviewed.
Dopamine and norepinephrine are neurotransmitters which participate in various regulatory functions of the human brain. These functions are lost in neurodegenerative diseases including Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease. In this study, we used SK-N-MC neuroblastoma cells to investigate the cytotoxicities of high concentrations of dopamine and norepinephrine on neuronal cells. Dopamine, norepinephrine, as well as their corresponding synthetic agonists (SKF38393 and isoproterenol, respectively) triggered SK-N-MC cell death when applied at 50-100 muM persistently for 2 days. This catecholamine-induced cell death appears to be neuronal specific, as demonstrated by their inabilities of triggering apoptosis of A549 lung carcinoma cells and Cos-7 kidney fibroblasts. By pretreating SK-N-MC cells with target-specific inhibitors before administration of catecholamine, components of G protein signaling (i.e. G( s )/cAMP/PKA), monoamine oxidases, nitric oxide synthase, c-Jun N-terminal kinase and oxidative stress were found to be involved in this dopamine/norepinephrine-induced cytotoxicity, which subsequently led to caspase-dependent and -independent apoptotic responses as well as DNA degradation. In contrast, agonists of G( i )-coupled dopamine receptors and adrenergic receptors (quinpirole and UK14,304, respectively) were incapable of triggering apoptosis of SK-N-MC cells. Our results suggest that both G protein (G( s ))-mediated signaling cascade and oxidative stress participate in the dopamine/norepinephrine-induced neuronal apoptosis.
In this work, we report the single channel characterization of a voltage gated cationic channel from rough endoplasmic reticulum (RER) membranes of rat hepatocytes incorporated into a planar lipid bilayer. The channel was found to be cation selective with a main conductance of 598+/-20 pS in 200 mM KCl cis/50 mM KCl trans. The channel open probability appeared voltage dependent with a voltage for half activation (V(1/2)) of 38 mV and an effective gating charge z of -6.66. Adding either 4-AP (5 mM) or ATP (2.5 mM) to the side corresponding to the cell internal medium caused a strong inhibition of the channel activity. This channel is likely to be involved in maintaining proper cation homeostasis in the RER of hepatocytes.

In 1905 the Cambridge physiologist Keith Lucas extended the &quot;all-or-none&quot; principle (introduced by H. P. Bowditch for the cardiac tissue) to skeletal muscle and nerve fibres. Nevertheless, in a short time it was clear that nerve fibres obey this law, but also that frequency of discharge is another relevant factor in the nervous conduction.


The objective of this study was to investigate violent and nonviolent suicidal acts in men and women with severe depression. The records of 98 suicide victims, who had been admitted to the Department of Psychiatry, Lund University Hospital, Sweden between 1956 and 1969, were evaluated and the subjects were monitored up to 1998. The female group displayed a significant linear trend for nonviolent completed suicide after one suicide attempt, and even more significantly, after repeated attempts. A switch from only nonviolent suicide attempts to completed violent suicide was significantly more common in men than in women. These different progressions may contribute to the expected finding that men used violent methods for completed suicide more often than women.
There is a need to find stable biomarkers for suicidal behavior and suicide prediction. Reduced homovanillic acid/5-hydroxyindolacetic acid (HVA/5-HIAA) ratios in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in depressed suicide attempters have been reported. Suicide intent is a predictor of repetition of attempts and suicide. In the present study we investigated the relationship of HVA/5-HIAA ratio to the scales rating suicide intent and depressive symptoms. Fifteen consecutive medication-free male suicide attempters admitted to a psychiatric ward at the Karolinska Hospital and eight healthy male volunteers underwent lumbar puncture and had the CSF monoamine metabolite levels assayed. Patients were assessed with the Beck Suicide Intent Scale (SIS), the Montgomery Asberg Depression rating Scale (MADRS) and the Chapman Scale of Anhedonia. Within the suicide attempter group, HVA/5-HIAA ratio was significantly associated with the Suicide Intent Scale (SIS), but not with the MADRS scale or the Chapman Scale of Anhedonia indicating that the HVA/5-HIAA ratio may be a biomarker of suicide intent.

Serum levels of relaxin in 25 women with premenstrual dysphoria and 25 age-matched controls were determined at three time points during the menstrual cycle. At the same time, levels of estradiol, progesterone, 17-beta-OH-progesterone, free testosterone, total testosterone, sex hormone binding hormone, androstenedione, dehydroepiandrosterone sulphate, and 3-alpha-androstanediol glucuronide were determined. Detectable levels of relaxin were found in all women in both the follicular and luteal phase as well as around ovulation, the inter-individual variations being larger than intra-individual differences. The levels of relaxin were not influenced by the fluctuation of the other reproductive hormones. A significant difference between the two groups of women was observed, subjects with premenstrual dysphoria displaying reduced levels of relaxin (p &lt; 0.05) compared to controls. Also, when analysed with respect to a variable number of tandem repeats polymorphism (CT repeats followed by GT repeats) in the promotor region of the relaxin H2 gene, women with premenstrual dysphoria (n = 29) were found to display significantly longer GT repeats than controls (n = 35).
Psychiatrically high-risk women were recruited for a postpartum depression prevention trial. Participants were screened at entry (20-26 weeks gestation) by a psychiatrist prior to receiving randomized treatment. Of the 31 patients who did not complete the study, 10 (33%) were dropped because of diagnosed depression. Only two women developed major depression in the postpartum period. Our data suggests, among high-risk women, obstetric care providers may be overlooking up to one fifth of women with current major depression.
The aim of this 2-year longitudinal observational study was to explore hand bone loss as a disease outcome measure in established rheumatoid arthritis (RA). A cohort of 215 patients with RA (170 women and 45 men, aged 20-70 years) were recruited from the Oslo RA registry and studied for changes in hand bone mass during a 2-year follow-up. Digital X-ray radiogrammetry (DXR) was used to measure cortical hand bone mineral density (BMD) and metacarpal cortical index, whereas dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) was used to assess whole hand BMD, which measures total cortical and trabecular bone. DXA-BMD total hip and spine and informative data for disease and therapy were also collected. Hand bone loss could be revealed over a 2-year follow-up measured by DXR-BMD (-0.90%, P &lt; 0.01), but not by DXA-BMD (0.00%, P = 0.87). DXA-BMD hand bone loss was only observed in patients with disease duration &lt; or = 3 years and not in patients with longer disease duration (-0.96% versus 0.24%, P &lt; 0.01), whereas loss of DXR-BMD was independent of disease duration. Disease activity (measured by the disease activity score including 28 joints) independently predicted loss of DXR-BMD but not changes in the DXA-BMD hand in the multivariate analysis. The change in DXR metacarpal cortical index was highly correlated to DXR-BMD (r = 0.94, P &lt; 0.001). These data suggest that DXR-BMD may be a more appropriate technique to identify RA-related bone involvement in hands compared with DXA-BMD measurement, but further studies are needed to explore this hypothesis.
There can be wide variation in the level of oral/aural language ability that prelingually hearing-impaired children develop after cochlear implantation. Automatic perceptual processing mechanisms have come under increasing scrutiny in attempts to explain this variation. Using mismatch negativity methods, this study explored associations between auditory sensory memory mechanisms and verbal working memory function in children with cochlear implants and a group of hearing controls of similar age. Whilst clear relationships were observed in the hearing children between mismatch activation and working memory measures, this association appeared to be disrupted in the implant children. These findings would fit with the proposal that early auditory deprivation and a degraded auditory signal can cause changes in the processes underpinning the development of oral/aural language skills in prelingually hearing-impaired children with cochlear implants and thus alter their developmental trajectory.
Until recently, people with complex communication needs have had no access to professional interpreters. The Swedish Speech Interpretation Service (SSIS) is attempting to address this problem. This qualitative study reports on how 12 persons with aphasia experienced the services of a professional interpreter from the SSIS. The results are presented in two themes: (a) The purpose of using an interpreter, which addresses issues relating to autonomy, privacy, and burden on family members; and (b) perceptions of quality of service, which addresses issues relating to the skills and professionalism of and accessibility to interpreters. Results highlight the ongoing need for the SSIS and its importance to the participants. The professional interpreter as an augmentative and alternative communication (AAC) &quot;tool&quot; that could be used to enhance the participation of people with aphasia in the community-at large, is also discussed; as is whether relatives and other non-professionals or professional interpreters should interpret for people with aphasia.

Interleukins (IL) and other cytokines display a number of overlapping abilities to stimulate cells of various lineages and differentiation stages. Most notably, IL-1, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, IL-6, IL-15, IL-17, IL-18, IL-21, IL-25, IL-25, IL-31 and IL-32 contribute in concert to pathophysiological events. These include cell death, inflammation, allergy and autoimmunity. Up-regulation of either T helper (TH)1 or TH2 cells is pathogenic, and these subsets downregulate each other. The expression of chemokines/cytokines by endothelial cells is also crucial to autoimmunity by trafficking inflammatory T cells into the central-nervous system. IL-32 (previously termed NK transcript 4), is the newest inflammatory cytokine produced by mitogen-activated lymphocytes, interferon-gamma activated epithelial cells and IL-12, IL-18 and IL-32-activated NK cells. This induces TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, IL-6 and 2 C-X-C chemokine family members involved in several autoimmune diseases. In addition, IL-32 activates arachidonic acid metabolism in peripheral blood mononuclear cells by stimulating the release of prostaglandins. Discovery of this supplementary inflammatory cytokine further complicates the network of inflammation.
Photoreceptor degeneration in human photoreceptor dystrophies and in the relevant animal models has been thought to be executed by one common mechanism- caspase-mediated apoptosis. However, recent experiments have challenged this concept. Gene defects or environmental stressors appear to cause oxidative stress and altered metabolism, which appear to induce caspase-dependent and caspase-independent cell death mechanisms such as the activation of cysteine-proteases, lysosomal proteases and autophagy and possibly complement-mediated lysis. In this article, we point out mechanistic parallels between these pathways and summarize our recently published investigation using a temporal analysis of the different pathways, which suggests that the noncaspase-dependent mechanisms may actively participate in the demise of the photoreceptors rather than represent a passive response of the retina to the presence of dying cells. Our investigation revealed that unless the common upstream initiator for a given photoreceptor dystrophy can be found, multiple rescue paradigms need to be used to target all active pathways.
Withdrawal from benzodiazepines in physically dependent rodents often requires that the drug be dislodged from its receptor with a competitive antagonist. Withdrawal Seizure-Prone (WSP) mice were selectively bred for their susceptibility to handling-induced withdrawal convulsions following chronic treatment with ethanol. Reflecting pleiotropic genetic influences, they also experience more severe withdrawal from other sedative-hypnotics including the benzodiazepine, diazepam. We used this susceptible genotype to test whether other benzodiazepine receptor (BZR) agonists also produce physical dependence following acute administration, comparing studies of spontaneous withdrawal with those where convulsions were precipitated by a BZR antagonist (flumazenil). Separate groups of mice were tested following a single injection of one of eight BZR agonists. Several doses of each drug were tested for spontaneous withdrawal, and a single dose of each drug was tested for precipitated withdrawal. Withdrawal convulsions were seen after all of the drugs by at least one method, suggesting that BZR agonists as a class elicit acute physical dependence in this susceptible genotype.
Within the past decade, our understanding of the pathogenic mechanisms in Alzheimer's disease (AD) has dramatically advanced because of the development of transgenic mouse models that recapitulate the key pathological and behavioral phenotypes of the disease. These mouse models have allowed investigators to test detailed questions about how pathology develops and to evaluate potential therapeutic approaches that could slow down the development of this disease. In this review, we discuss the status of transgenic mouse models and review the complex relationship between pathology and behavior in the development of neuropathological syndromes in AD.

Anosognosia for cortical blindness, also called Anton's syndrome, is a rare neurological disorder usually following bilateral lesions to occipital cortices. Neuropsychological, morphological and functional neuroimaging (SPECT and fMRI) findings are reported in a patient who incurred Anton's syndrome after an ischaemic lesion confined to the left occipital lobe involving the corpus callosum. The present case study suggests that Anton's syndrome may also follow from lesions disconnecting the occipital cortices.

We evaluated the relationship between motor and neuropsychological deficits in subjects affected by amnestic Mild Cognitive Impairment (aMCI) and early Alzheimer's Disease (AD). Kinematics of goal-directed movement of aMCI and AD subjects were compared to those of age-matched control subjects. AD showed a slowing down of motor performance compared to aMCI and controls. No relationships were found between motor and cognitive performances in both AD and aMCI. Our results suggest that the different motor behaviour between AD and aMCI cannot be related to memory deficits, probably reflecting the initial degeneration of parietal-frontal circuits for movement planning. The onset of motor dysfunction in early AD could represent the transition from aMCI to AD.
The psychic tonus model (Braun and colleagues, 1999, 2002, 2003, 2006) states that the left hemisphere is a &quot;booster&quot; of internal experience and behavior in general, and that the right hemisphere is a &quot;dampener&quot;. Twenty-five patients with a &quot;positive&quot; extreme disturbance of body schema (somatoparaphrenia) and 37 patients with a &quot;negative&quot; disturbance of body schema (autotopagnosia or Gerstmann's syndrome), all following a unilateral parietal lesion, were found in the literature and were analyzed to test predictions from Braun's &quot;psychic tonus&quot; model. As expected, patients with a positive syndrome had a right hemisphere lesion significantly more frequently, and those with a negative syndrome had a left hemisphere lesion significantly more frequently. Thus the psychic tonus model of hemispheric specialization, previously supported with regard to psychomotor baseline, libido, talkativeness, memory, auditory and visual perceptual tonus, now incorporates the tonus of representation of the body (body schema) in the parietal lobes.

A thorough analysis of the question of whether we possess &quot;free will&quot; requires that we take into account the process of exercising that will: that is, the neural mechanisms of decision making. Much of what we know about these mechanisms indicates that decision making is greatly influenced by implicit processes that may not even reach consciousness. Moreover, there exist conditions, for example certain types of brain injury or drug addiction, in which an individual can be said to have a disorder of the will. Examples such as these demonstrate that the idea of freedom of will on which our legal system is based is not supported by the neuroscience of decision making. Using the criminal law as an example, we discuss how new discoveries in neuroscience can serve as a tool for reprioritizing our society's legal intuitions in a way that leads us to a more effective and humane system.
Advances in neuroscience over the past 40 or more years are causing a re-visiting of an old debate: Does man possess free will over his actions, or do forces out of his control determine his behavior? Philosophers and biologists since the beginning of recorded history have taken positions on each side of the debate. Recent discoveries of brain activation prior to conscious awareness and genetic conditions that induce impulsive violent behavior are fortifying the perspective that biological determinism is basic to the human condition. But some contemporary thinkers are conflicted in this viewpoint since &quot;free will&quot; is a necessary element for self-determination and for attributing personal responsibility for one's actions. Hence, modifications of strict determinism have emerged which try to incorporate the features of determinism enforced by neuroscience findings with some element of &quot;free will&quot;, making the two seemingly opposed positions compatible. How successful this will be to rescue &quot;free will&quot; in the long term depends on future discoveries in neuroscience and genetics.
The free will debate widely exceeds the neuroscientific and philosophical fields due to profound implications for legislation, case law and psychiatric expert opinion. Data from Benjamin Libet's experiments on the readiness potential have been used as an argument against personal responsibility and for changes in the law. Due to the explicit use of the term &quot;free will&quot; in German civil law, the psychiatrist as an expert witness is confronted with this debate. In this article we outline the role of this crucial term in German civil law and we describe the neurophysiologic challenge in the form of Libet's experiments, which is led on three levels: the correctness of the data, the impact on the question of whether free will exists and possible consequences for the law. We conclude that the problem of free will cannot be debated on the basis of the data provided by Libet's experiments and that doubts about the existence of a free will must not lead to changes in the law or in psychiatric expert testimony. Therefore, advice for the psychiatrist as an expert witness is offered on the basis of a psychopathological approach that takes into account cognitive and motivational preconditions and the structure of values and personality.
This article considers the notion of free will in the context of aggression and psychopathy research. The philosophical literature is very briefly considered to determine under what assumptions free will can be considered to exist. However, as the issue of free will is very difficult to address directly, the prime focus of this article is on issues raised in the philosophical debate, that may be empirically tractable and that are relevant to the understanding of psychopathy. Specifically, the following issues are considered: (1) The distinction between automatic and controlled processing; (2) Impairment related to automatic processing in individuals with psychopathy; and (3) Impairment related to controlled behavior in individuals with psychopathy. It is concluded that, while there is not a direct mapping of the automatic versus controlled processing dichotomy on to the reactive versus instrumental aggression dichotomy, some overlap can be considered. As such, it is possible to consider that certain episodes of reactive aggression might be considered to occur in the absence of free will. However, instrumental aggression, at least from a compatibilist perspective, must involve free will.
Various philosophical definitions of free will are first considered. The compatibilist definition, which says simply that acts are freely willed if they are not subject to constraints, is identified as much used in the legal system and essentially impervious to scientific investigation. A middle-ground &quot;incompatibilist&quot; definition, which requires that freely willed acts be consciously initiated, is shown to be relevant to the idea of mens rea and in the author's view not actually incompatible in principle with a fully scientific worldview. Only the strong libertarian definition, which requires that freely willed acts have no physical antecedents whatsoever, makes the existence of free will very hard to swallow scientifically. However, with regard to the middle-ground &quot;incompatibilist&quot; definition, three different lines of scientific experimental evidence are then described, which suggest that, in fact, consciousness is not the real cause of much of what is generally considered as voluntary behavior. Many voluntary actions are initiated preconsciously, with consciousness kept informed only after the neural events leading to the act have begun. It is suggested that a reasonable way of integrating these experimental findings with the idea that persons do have a somewhat more than compatibilist version of free will is to acknowledge explicitly that a person is a mixture of conscious and unconscious components. In this scenario, the mind in mens rea would have to be judged guilty if it contained either conscious or unconscious intentions to perform the guilty act.
Chronic constipation is a common disorder manifested by a variety of symptoms. Assessments of colonic transit and anorectal functions are used to categorize constipated patients into three groups, i.e., normal transit or irritable bowel syndrome, pelvic floor dysfunction (i.e., functional defaecatory disorders) and slow transit constipation. 'Slow transit' constipation is a clinical syndrome attributed to ineffective colonic propulsion and/or increased resistance to propagation of colonic contents. Defaecatory disorders are caused by insufficient relaxation of the pelvic floor muscles or a failure to generate adequate propulsive forces during defaecation. Colonic transit is often delayed in patients with functional defaecatory disorders. Normal and slow transit constipation are generally managed with medications; surgery is necessary for a minority of patients with slow transit constipation. Functional defaecatory disorders are primarily treated with pelvic floor retraining using biofeedback therapy.
The P-type Mg2+-ATPase, termed ATPase II (Atp8a1), is a putative aminophospholipid transporting enzyme, which helps to maintain phospholipid asymmetry in cell membranes. In this project we have elucidated the organization of the mouse ATPase II gene and identified its promoter. Located within chromosome 5, this gene spans about 224 kb and consists of 38 exons, three of which are alternatively spliced (exons 7, 8 and 16), giving rise to two transcript variants. Translation of these transcripts results in two ATPase II isoforms (1 and 2) composed of 1164 and 1149 amino acids, respectively. Using RNA ligase-mediated rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RLM-RACE) we identified multiple transcription start sites (TSS) in messages obtained from heart, lung, liver, and spleen. The mouse ATPase II promoter is TATA-less and lacks a consensus initiator sequence. Luciferase reporter analysis of full and core promoters revealed strong activity and little cell type specificity, possibly because more flanking, regulatory sequences are required to cause such tissue specificity. In the neuronal HN2, N18, SN48 cells and the NIH3T3 fibroblast cells, but not in the B16F10 melanoma cells, the core promoter (-318/+193 with respect to the most common TSS) displayed significantly higher activity than the full promoter (-1026/+193). Serial 5' deletion of the core promoter revealed significant cell type-specific activity of the fragments, suggesting differential expression and use of transcription factors in the five cell lines tested. Additionally distribution of the TSS was organ specific. Such observations suggest tissue-specific differences in transcription initiation complex assembly and regulation of ATPase II gene expression. Information presented here form the groundwork for further studies on the expression of this gene in apoptotic cells.
Ethical controversy in stem cell research arises because current methods to produce embryonic stem cell lines require the destruction of living human embryos. For this reason, there is increasing interest in developing alternative, non-embryonic sources of pluripotent stem cells. This effort is especially important in the US due to the prevailing policy against federal funding of embryo-destructive research. Altered nuclear transfer (ANT) is one of several potential methods to develop alternative sources of pluripotent stem cells. This approach employs the technique of somatic cell nuclear transfer, but the somatic cell nucleus or egg cytoplasm (or both) are first altered before the somatic cell nucleus is transferred into the oocyte. This alteration precludes the coordinated organization and developmental potential that is necessary for the resulting biological entity to be an embryo, but it still allows the entity to generate pluripotent stem cells. Proof-of-principle for one variant of ANT has been established in mice by silencing the functional expression of the gene Cdx2 in the somatic cell nucleus prior to its transfer into an enucleated egg. From the resulting non-embryonic laboratory construct, fully functional pluripotent stem cells were procured. Other more recent studies have suggested the possibility of achieving the same results by preemptively silencing maternally derived Cdx2 messenger RNA in the egg before the act of nuclear transfer. The procedure would produce the equivalent of a tissue culture of pluripotent stem cells. In contrast to the use of embryos 'left over' from clinical in vitro fertilization, ANT could produce pluripotent stem cell lines with an unlimited range of specifically selected and controlled genotypes. Such flexibility would greatly facilitate the study of disease, drug development, and toxicology testing, and may allow the production of therapeutically useful pluripotent stem cells that are immune-compatible. If developed to the point of scientific reliability, ANT would be a valuable research tool for the study of other aspects of cell development and differentiation, including gene expression patterns, imprinting, and cell-cell signaling. ANT would also help to clarify definitions and boundaries that distinguish true organisms from 'biological artifacts' and, thereby, provide moral precedent to guide future progress in developmental biology.
The paper introduces mirror neuron system II (MNS2), a new version of the MNS model (Oztop and Arbib in Biol Cybern 87 (2):116-140, 2002) of action recognition learning by mirror neurons of the macaque brain. The new model uses a recurrent architecture that is biologically more plausible than that of the original model. Moreover, MNS2 extends the capacity of the model to address data on audio-visual mirror neurons and on the response of mirror neurons when the target object was recently visible but is currently hidden.

Nicotine dependence is the primary motivational factor perpetuating the tobacco smoking habit that is one of the leading preventable causes of morbidity throughout the world. This Neuroscience Perspectives article summarizes and discusses recent evidence demonstrating the critical role of glutamate transmission in nicotine dependence and emerging data suggesting that compounds acting as antagonists at metabotropic glutamate receptors may be useful therapeutics to assist people in achieving and maintaining abstinence from tobacco smoking. Metabotropic glutamate 5 receptor antagonists may be useful in decreasing the reinforcing effects of nicotine, reducing motivation for nicotine and preventing relapse during protracted abstinence, whereas metabotropic glutamate 2/3 receptor antagonists may alleviate the depression observed during the early nicotine withdrawal phase. Metabotropic glutamate 2/3 receptor antagonists may also be therapeutics for non-drug-induced depressions.

Gene expression microarray analysis in postmortem brains is one of the fastest growing fields of psychiatric research. Here we show that common polymorphisms (SNPs) present on probe sets can masquerade as significant &quot;gene expression&quot; differences. After first observing this artifact in the Catechol-O-methyl transferase (COMT) gene, we replicate the finding in two additional genes predicted to show this artifact. Many Affymetrix chips contain thousands of SNPs that are both common and in the central probe region affecting hybridization, and thus have the potential to confound expression analysis.

Mismatch negativity (MMN) component of the event-related brain potentials has become popular in cognitive and clinical brain research during the recent years. It is an early response to a violation of an auditory rule such as an infrequent change in the physical feature of a repetitive sound. There is a lot of evidence on the association of the MMN parameters and behavioral discrimination ability, although this relationship is not always straight-forward. Since the MMN reflects sound discrimination accuracy, it can be used for probing how well different groups of individuals perceive sound differences, and how training or remediation affects this ability. In the present review, we first introduce some of the essential MMN findings in probing sound discrimination, memory, and their deficits. Thereafter, issues which need to be taken into account in MMN investigations as well as new improved recording paradigms are discussed.
In this concise review we discuss some of the complex edges of the concept of death that arose after the notorious advances in science and medicine over the last 50 years, in which the classical cardio-pulmonary criteria have led to the neurological criteria of death. New complicated questions like the definition of death and the operational criteria for diagnosing it have arisen and we think that they are far from being adequately and satisfactorily solved. A number of important issues--like the reliability and differences between cardio-pulmonary versus brain based criteria of death, if death is an event or a process, the meaning of integration and irreversibility--have not yet received sufficient attention. Here we have approached the death problem from two (biological) complex system perspectives: the organism level and the cellular-molecular level. We also discuss issues from a third systemic approach, that is, the entire society, thus involving legal, religious, bioethical and political aspects of death. Our aim is to integrate new perspectives in order to promote further discussion on these critical yet frequently neglected issues.
Dynamic Causal Modelling (DCM) and the theory of autopoietic systems are two important conceptual frameworks. In this review, we suggest that they can be combined to answer important questions about self-organising systems like the brain. DCM has been developed recently by the neuroimaging community to explain, using biophysical models, the non-invasive brain imaging data are caused by neural processes. It allows one to ask mechanistic questions about the implementation of cerebral processes. In DCM the parameters of biophysical models are estimated from measured data and the evidence for each model is evaluated. This enables one to test different functional hypotheses (i.e., models) for a given data set. Autopoiesis and related formal theories of biological systems as autonomous machines represent a body of concepts with many successful applications. However, autopoiesis has remained largely theoretical and has not penetrated the empiricism of cognitive neuroscience. In this review, we try to show the connections that exist between DCM and autopoiesis. In particular, we propose a simple modification to standard formulations of DCM that includes autonomous processes. The idea is to exploit the machinery of the system identification of DCMs in neuroimaging to test the face validity of the autopoietic theory applied to neural subsystems. We illustrate the theoretical concepts and their implications for interpreting electroencephalographic signals acquired during amygdala stimulation in an epileptic patient. The results suggest that DCM represents a relevant biophysical approach to brain functional organisation, with a potential that is yet to be fully evaluated.
Diffusion Magnetic Resonance Imaging provides images of unquestionable diagnostic value. It is commonly used in the assessment of stroke and in white matter fiber tracking, among other applications. The diffusion coefficient has been shown to depend on cell concentration, membrane permeability, and cell orientation in the case of white matter or muscle fiber tracking; yet a clear relation between diffusion measurements and known physiological parameters is not established. The aim of this paper is to review hypotheses and actual knowledge on diffusion signal origin to provide assistance in the interpretation of diffusion MR images. Focus will be set on brain images, as most common applications of diffusion MRI are found in neuroradiology. Diffusion signal does not come from two intra- or extracellular compartments, as was first assumed. Restriction of water displacement due to membranes, hindrance in the extracellular space, and tissue heterogeneity are important factors. Unanswered questions remain on how to deal with tissue heterogeneity, and how to retrieve parameters less troublesome to work with from biological and clinical points of view. Diffusion quantification should be done with care, as many variables can lead to variation in measurements.
In recent years, both pharmaceutical companies and manufacturing industries have expressed heightened interest in the potential applications of magnetic nanoparticles for therapeutic and technological purposes. Specifically, pharmaceutical companies seek to employ magnetic nanoparticles as carriers to facilitate effective drug delivery, especially in areas of the brain. Manufacturing industries desire to use these nanoparticles as ferrofluids and in magnetic resonance imaging. However, data concerning the effects of magnetic nanoparticles on the nervous system is limited. This study tested the hypotheses that nanoparticles can (1) inhibit adherence of astrocytes to culture plates and (2) cause cytotoxicity or termination of growth, both end points representing surrogate markers of neurotoxicity. Using light microscopy, changes in plating patterns were determined by visual assessment. Cell counting 4 days after plating revealed a significant decrease in the number of viable astrocytes in nanoparticle treated groups (p &lt; 0.0001). To determine the cytotoxic effects of nanoparticles, astrocytes were allowed to adhere to culture plates and grow to maturity for 3 weeks before treatment. Membrane integrity and mitochondrial function were measured using colorimetric analysis lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and 3-[4, 5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2, 5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTS), respectively. Treatment with nanoparticles did not significantly alter astrocytic LDH release (p &gt; 0.05) in the control group (100% +/- 1.56) vs the group receiving treatment (97.18% +/- 2.03). However, a significant increase in MTS activity (p &lt; 0.05) between the control (100% +/- 3.65) and treated groups (112.8% +/- 3.23) was observed, suggesting astrocytic mitochondrial uncoupling by nanoparticles. These data suggest that nanoparticles impede the attachment of astrocytes to the substratum. However, once astrocytes attach to the substratum and grow to confluence, nanoparticles may cause mitochondrial stress.
Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging using super-paramagnetic iron oxides (SPIOs) is a powerful tool to monitor transplanted cells in living animals. However, since SPIOs are negative contrast agents it is difficult to track transplanted cells in bone and cartilage that originally display low signals. In this study, we examined the feasibility of tracking with fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC)-labeled poly-L-lysine-CF(3) (PLK-CF(3)) using mouse ATDC5 cells, a stem cell line of bone and cartilage cells. FITC-labeled PLK-CF(3) was easily internalized by ATDC5 cells by adding it into culture medium. No acute or long-term toxicities were seen at less than 160 microg/ml. Labeled cells transplanted into the cranial bone of mice were detected for at least 7 days by MR images. FITC-labeled PLK-CF(3) is a useful positive contrast agent for MR tracking in bone and cartilage.
The nuclear receptor Nurr1 (NR4A2) is critically involved in the development and maintenance of midbrain dopaminergic neurons and is believed to function independently of endogenous activation. The hit identification and SAR studies leading to isoxazolo-pyridinone 7e, a highly potent, brain penetrable activator of the Nurr1 signaling pathway, are described.
The origin and current use of the concepts of computation, representation and information in Neuroscience are examined and conceptual flaws are identified which vitiate their usefulness for addressing the problem of the neural basis of Cognition and Consciousness. In contrast, a convergence of views is presented to support the characterization of the Nervous System as a complex dynamical system operating in a metastable regime, and capable of evolving to configurations and transitions in phase space with potential relevance for Cognition and Consciousness.








A substantial proportion of individuals infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) also abuse alcohol. Given that each condition can disrupt brain structural integrity, with a predilection for white matter, we used MR diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) and quantitative fibre tracking to examine the separate and combined effects on the microstructure of the corpus callosum. Subjects were men and women with alcoholism alone (n = 87), HIV infection alone (n = 42), alcoholism and HIV infection comorbidity (n = 52) and non-affected controls (n = 88). The two alcoholism groups had similar lifetime alcohol consumption histories; the two HIV-infected groups had similar CD4+ counts and viral loads; all groups were matched in body mass index, and no participant was demented. Compared with controls, all patient groups had lower fractional anisotropy (FA) and higher mean diffusivity (MD) in callosal regions and fibre bundles coursing through the genu and splenium, but these effects were only significant in the two groups with alcoholism, which exhibited 0.65-1.2 SD abnormalities in FA and MD. The callosal regions were differentially affected by alcoholism, with the genu more affected than the splenium, a pattern even more pronounced in the fibre tracks. When the HIV-infected groups were divided by disease severity defined as an acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS)-defining event or low CD4+ counts (&lt;200) and alcoholism comorbidity, the HIV-infected subgroup with AIDS and alcoholism exhibited approximately 2 SD FA and MD abnormalities in the callosal sectors and fibres, abnormalities that were more than twice the effect sizes observed in the other three HIV-infected subgroups. Degradation of the callosal microstructure was consistently associated with alcoholism, with evidence for compounded alcoholism-HIV effects. Functional relevance of the microstructural abnormalities was supported by associations between motor deficits and low FA or high MD within the diagnostic groups. The high prevalence of alcoholism in HIV-infected individuals and the interfering effect of alcohol on HIV pharmacological response and therapy compliance underscore the need to recognize the independent and synergistic contributions of each condition to brain structure and function.
Aggression causes major health and social problems and constitutes a central problem in several psychiatric disorders. There is a close relationship between the display of aggression and stress coping strategies. In order to gain more insight into biochemical pathways associated with aggression and stress coping, we assessed behavioral and neurobiological responses in two genetically selected rodent models, namely wild house mice selectively bred for a short (SAL) and long (LAL) attack latency and Wistar rats bred for high (HAB) or low (LAB) anxiety-related behavior. Compared to their line counterparts, the SAL mice and the LAB rats display a high level of intermale aggression associated with a proactive coping style. Both the SAL mice and the LAB rats show a reduced hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis response to non-social stressors. However, when exposed to social stressors (resident-intruder, sensory contact), SAL mice show an attenuated HPA response, whereas LAB rats show an elevated HPA response. In both rodent lines, the display of aggression is associated with high neuronal activation in the central amygdala, but reduced neuronal activation in the lateral septum. Furthermore, in the lateral septum, SAL mice have a reduced vasopressinergic fiber network, and LAB rats show a decreased vasopressin release during the display of aggression. Moreover, the two lines show several indications of an increased serotonergic neurotransmission. The relevance of these findings in relation to high aggression and stress coping is discussed. In conclusion, exploring neurobiological systems in animals sharing relevant behavioral characteristics might be a useful approach to identify general mechanisms of action, which in turn can improve our understanding of specific behavioral symptoms in human psychiatric disorders.
During puberty, agonistic behaviors undergo significant transitions. In golden hamsters, puberty is marked by a transition from play fighting to adult aggression. During early puberty, male golden hamsters perform play-fighting attacks. This response type is gradually replaced by adult attacks over the course of puberty. Interestingly, this behavioral transition does not appear to be controlled by changes in gonadal steroids. Instead, the shift from play fighting to adult aggression in male golden hamsters is driven by pubertal changes in glucocorticoid levels. Specifically, the transition from play fighting to adult aggression coincides with developmental increases in glucocorticoid levels, and external manipulations such as social stress or treatment with corticosteroid receptor agonists accelerate this behavioral shift. Moreover, the consequences of social stress differ greatly between juvenile and adult male golden hamsters. Although a single defeat during adulthood causes severe and long lasting behavioral and neuroendocrine consequences, socially subjugated juveniles show only transient behavioral effects. As such, it is likely that pubertal changes in the HPA axis are not only linked to the maturation of offensive responses but also determine the consequences of social stress. Combined, these studies in golden hamsters provide a novel mechanism for the development of agonistic behavior and suggest that age related differences in behavioral plasticity are mediated by the development of the HPA axis.
Social interactions include a variety of stimulating but challenging factors that are the basis for strategies that allow individuals to cope with novel or familiar stressful situations. Evolutionarily conserved strategies have been identified that reflect specific behavioral and physiological identities. In this review we discuss a unique model for social stress in the lizard Anolis carolinensis, which has characteristics amenable to an investigation of individual differences in behavioral responses via central and sympathetic neurochemical adaptation. Profiles of proactive and reactive phenotypes of male A. carolinensis are relatively stable, yet retain limited flexibility that allows for the development of the social system over time. For male A. carolinensis, the celerity of social signal expression and response translate into future social standing. In addition, proactive aggressive, courtship, and feeding behaviors also predict social rank, but are not as important as prior interactions and memories of previous opponents to modify behavioral output and affect social status. The central neurotransmitters dopamine and serotonin, and the endocrine stress axis (HPA) appear to be the fundamental link to adaptive stress coping strategies during social interactions. Only small adaptations to these neural and endocrine systems are necessary to produce the variability measured in behavioral responses to stressful social interactions. These neuroendocrine factors are also manifest in responses to other stimuli and form the basis of heritable strategies for coping with stress.
It is becoming increasingly recognized that the diversity in stressors, their intensity, predictability and the context in which they are experienced, will result in behavioral and physiological responses just as diverse. In addition, stress responses are characterized by individual variations where the physiological and behavioral reactions are associated in such a manner that distinct stress coping styles encompassing suites of correlated traits can be identified. These are often referred to as proactive and reactive stress coping styles. Proactive coping is characterized by more aggression, higher general activity and higher sympathetic activation, whereas reactive coping is characterized by immobility, lack of initiative and a higher parasympathetic/hypothalamic activation. Stable coping styles appear to coexist within populations, and these strategies appear to be largely innate. Moreover, the physiological and behavioral traits of coping styles appear to be heritable. These stress coping styles have proven to play a major role in competitive ability and subsequent social position in different species of vertebrates. However, there are also studies showing that social position can affect parameters encompassing the stress coping style of individuals. In this regard it is important, but not always easy, to distinguish between causes and effects of behavioral and physiological responses to stressors. The question raised is to what extent and rigidness stress coping styles are guided by genetic factors.
Honey bee dance language is a unique and complex form of animal communication used to inform nest mates in the colony about the specific location of food sources or new nest sites. Five different sensory systems have been implicated in acquiring and communicating the information necessary for dance language communication. We present results from neuronal tracer studies identifying the central projections from four of the five. Sensory neurons of the dorsal rim area of the compound eyes, involved in acquiring sun-compass based information, project to the dorsal-most part of the medulla. Sensory neurons of the neck hair plates, required to transpose sun-compass based information to gravity-based information in the dark hive, project to the dorsal labial neuromere of the subesophageal ganglion. Sensory neurons from the antennal joint hair sensilla and the Johnston's organ, which perceive information on dance direction and distance from mechanostimuli generated by abdomen waggling and wing vibration, project to the deutocerebral dorsal lobe and the subesophageal ganglion, and the posterior protocerebrum, respectively. We found no 'dance-specific' projections relative to those previously described for drone and queen honey bees and other insect species that do not exhibit dance communication. We suggest that the evolution of dance language communication was likely based on the modification of central neural pathways associated with path integration, the capability to calculate distance, and directional information during flight.
A hypothesis, 'the nerve ring in hydra shares a common origin with the central nervous system in bilaterian animals', is discussed in this review. The nerve ring of hydra is a ring of neurons whose neurites make a bundle running circumferentially around the hypostome just above the tentacle zone. This nervous structure has unique features in the hydra nervous system. It shows a tight association of neurons in contrast to the diffuse nerve net seen in other regions. It shows static developmental characters in contrast to the dynamic features of hydra nerve net present in other regions. Moreover, its structure and location are similar to the central nervous system (CNS) of other animals without a complex CNS such as nematodes and starfishes. Functions of the hydra nerve ring are also studied to test the hypothesis. The identified function is a crumpling of the tentacles, corresponding to the function of the inner nerve ring of hydrozoan jellyfish. The jellyfish nerve ring is considered to be a primitive central nervous system of radiates. Considering all the information available, the hypothesis is highly possible.
Previous research presents a mixed picture of seasonal variation in the hippocampus of food-storing black-capped chickadees. One field study has shown an October peak in hippocampus volume, although laboratory studies conducted to determine whether photoperiod regulates this seasonal growth have failed to find changes in the size of the hippocampus. To resolve the discrepancy between field and lab reports we examined caching activity, hippocampal volume, and neurogenesis in adult male black-capped chickadees at four times over the annual cycle: October, January, April and July. We found that more birds stored food in October than at other times of year, but did not observe a significant change in the size of the hippocampus over the annual cycle. Telencephalon volume, however, was larger in October than in July. Hippocampal neuronal recruitment showed a significant peak in January, but there was no seasonal change in neuronal recruitment in the adjacent hyperpallium apicale. These results indicate that there might be seasonal variation in the recruitment of new neurons into the hippocampus of chickadees without overall seasonal change in hippocampal size.
A histochemical and cytoarchitectural analysis was completed for the neocortex of the Florida manatee in order to localize primary sensory areas and particularly primary somatosensory cortex (SI). Based on the location of cytochrome oxidase-dense staining in flattened cortex preparations, preliminary functional divisions were assigned for SI with the face represented laterally followed by the flipper, body and tail representations proceeding medially. The neonate exhibited four distinct patches in the frontoparietal cortex (presumptive SI), whereas juvenile and adult specimens demonstrated a distinct pattern in which cytochrome oxidase-dense staining appeared to be blended into one large patch extending dorsomedially. This differential staining between younger versus older more developed animals was also seen on coronal sections stained for cytochrome oxidase, myelin, or Nissl bodies. These were systematically analyzed in order to accurately localize the laminar and cytoarchitectural extent of cytochrome oxidase staining. Overall, SI appears to span seven cytoarchitectural areas to which we have assigned presumptive functional representations based on the relative locations of cytochrome oxidase-dense staining.
This article offers a personal view on how the concept of the existence of a network of immune-neuro-endocrine interactions has evolved in the last 30 years. The main topic addressed is the relevance of the exchange of signals between the immune, endocrine and nervous systems for immunoregulation and brain functions. Particular emphasis is given to circuits involving immune cell products, the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis and the sympathetic nervous system. The operation of these circuits can affect immune functions and the course of inflammatory, autoimmune and infectious diseases. We also discuss increasing evidence that brain-born cytokines play an important role in brain physiology and in the integration of the immune-neuro-endocrine network.
Understanding how and why the immune and nervous systems communicate in a bidirectional pathway has been fundamental to the development of the psychoneuroimmunology (PNI) field. This review will discuss some of the pivotal results that found the nervous and immune systems use a common chemical language for intra and inter-system communication. Specifically the nervous and immune systems produce a common set of peptide and nonpeptide neurotransmitters and cytokines that provides a common repertoire of receptors and ligands between the two systems. These studies led to the concept that through the sharing of ligands and receptors the immune system could serve as a sixth sense to detect things the body cannot otherwise hear, see, smell, taste or touch. Pathogens, tumors, and allergens are detected with great sensitivity and specificity by the immune system. As a sixth sense the immune system is a means to signal and mobilize the body to respond to these types of challenges. The paper will also review in a chronological manner some of the PNI-related studies important to validating the sixth sense concept. Finally, the review will suggest ways to apply the new found knowledge of the sixth sense to understanding a placebo effect and developing new therapeutic approaches for treatment of human diseases.
Immune cells express receptors for every hormone or neurotransmitter we know so far. The neuroendocrine system signals to the immune system via the release of hormones and neurotransmitters that regulate cellular activity via these receptors. Much attention has been focused on the effect of glucocorticoids and catecholamines on the immune system. Glucocorticoids communicate with immune cells via glucocorticoid receptors of which the activity itself changes during immune activation. Many neuroendocrine mediators are ligands for G-protein coupled receptors on immune cells. Cytokines, oxygen-radicals, and catecholamines can influence the responsiveness of G-protein coupled receptors via decreasing the intracellular level of so-called G-protein coupled receptor kinases, of which the subtype GRK2 is highly expressed in immune cells. Therefore, changes in only one kinase can modulate the sensitivity of many receptors. We describe here that sensitivity of neuroendocrine receptors on immune cells is constantly regulated by inflammatory processes or chronic stress, which implies that not only the activity of the neuroendocrine system determines communication but that the sensitivity of receptors is a major factor in determining the final immune response. Finally, consequences of alterations in GRK2 during (neuro)-inflammatory diseases are discussed.
Prior exposure to a stressor can potentiate CNS pro-inflammatory immune responses to a peripheral immune challenge. However, the neuroimmune substrate(s) mediating this effect has not been determined. The present investigation examined whether microglia serve as this neuroimmune substrate given that microglia are the primary immune effector cell in the CNS. The effect of inescapable shock (IS) on glial activation (MHC II, CD11b, Iba-1, and GFAP) and regulatory markers (CD200) in vivo, and microglia pro-inflammatory responses (interleukin-1beta; IL-1beta) to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) ex vivo, were assessed in rat hippocampus. IS upregulated the microglia activation marker MHC II 24h post-IS, while the astroglia marker GFAP was unaffected. IS also downregulated the neuronal glycoprotein CD200, which functions to hold microglia in a quiescent state. Moreover, IS potentiated the pro-inflammatory response to LPS ex vivo 24h post-IS in isolated hippocampal microglia. Finally, the behavioral controllability of shock was manipulated and the effect of escapable (controllable) shock was comparable to the effect of IS on hippocampal microglia responses to LPS ex vivo. The present results suggest that stress can activate microglia, thereby sensitizing the pro-inflammatory reactivity of microglia to immunogenic stimuli.
Visual experience depends critically on visual attention, which selects a particular aspect of a visual display. Recent clinical, neuroimaging, and animal studies revealed that visual attention was divided into active and passive or top-down and bottom-up attention. Although these dichotomies are clear-cut in definition, visual attention could be modulated by many factors. Detailed observation of brain-injured patients provides with evidence for dynamic and fine control of visual attention. We observed patients with dorsal simultanagnosia and that with callosal disconnection syndrome. Patients with dorsal simultanagnosia demonstrated that extent of visual attention was dynamically changed depending on the level of visual processing. Despite the ability to read a kanji character and to describe its components correctly, a patient could not notice a component that he had just written and could not assemble individual components to make up a correct kanji character. He could point to an overlapping area of two figures. But once he started to color the overlapping area, he missed the margin of the area and colored much larger area. Another patient with dorsal simultanagnosia missed borderlines between columns of a newspaper and read letters continuously across columns. In contrast, he could point to lines between figures or meaningless patterns easily. These findings indicated that visual attention was directed automatically to meaningful characters. A patients with callosal disconnection syndrome demonstrated left unilateral spatial neglect only when he used his right hand to draw figures. Right hand movement, controlled by the left hemisphere, elicited visual attention to the right hemispace, resulting in the left unilateral spatial neglect. Thus visual attention is not simply top-down or bottom up, but is implicitly affected by the visual recognition as well as motor component of the task.

Progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) is an atypical Parkinsonian disorder associated with progressive axial rigidity, vertical gaze palsy, dysarthria and dysphagia. Neuropathologically, the subthalamic nucleus and brainstem, especially the midbrain tectum and the superior cerebellar peduncle, show atrophy. The substantia nigra shows loss of pigment corresponding to nigrostriatal dopaminergic degeneration. Microscopic findings include neuronal loss, gliosis and neurofibrillary tangles in basal ganglia, diencephalon and brainstem. Characteristic tau pathology is also found in glia. The major genetic risk factor for sporadic PSP is a common variant in the gene encoding microtubule-associated protein tau (MAPT) and recent studies have suggested that this may result in the altered expression of specific tau protein isoforms. Imaging studies suggest that there may be sensitive and specific means to differentiate PSP from other parkinsonian disorders, but identification of a diagnostic biomarker is still elusive.
Bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) is a thymidine analog that incorporates DNA of dividing cells during the S-phase of the cell cycle. As such, BrdU is used for birth dating and monitoring cell proliferation. BrdU immunohistochemistry has been instrumental for the study of the development of the nervous system, and to confirm that neurogenesis occurs in the adult mammalian brain, including in human. However, the use of BrdU for studying neurogenesis is not without pitfalls and limitations. BrdU is a toxic and mutagenic substance. It triggers cell death, the formation of teratomas, alters DNA stability, lengthens the cell cycle, and has mitogenic, transcriptional and translational effects on cells that incorporate it. All of which have profound consequences on neurogenesis. BrdU is not a marker of the S-phase of the cell cycle. As a thymidine analog, it is a marker of DNA synthesis. Therefore, studying neurogenesis with BrdU requires distinguishing cell proliferation and neurogenesis from other events involving DNA synthesis, like DNA repair, abortive cell cycle reentry and gene duplication. BrdU labeling is currently the most used technique for studying adult neurogenesis in situ. However in many instances, appropriate controls have been overlooked and events reported as the generation of new neuronal cells in the adult brain misinterpreted, which makes BrdU labeling one of the most misused techniques in neuroscience.
Congo red is a commonly used histological dye for amyloid detection. The specificity of this staining results from Congo red's affinity for binding to fibril proteins enriched in beta-sheet conformation. Unexpectedly, recent investigations indicate that the dye also possesses the capacity to interfere with processes of protein misfolding and aggregation, stabilizing native protein monomers or partially folded intermediates, while reducing concentration of more toxic protein oligomers. Inhibitory effects of Congo red upon amyloid toxicity may also range from blockade of channel formation and interference with glycosaminoglycans binding or immune functions, to the modulation of gene expression. Particularly, Congo red exhibits ameliorative effect in models of neurodegenerative disorders, such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, Huntington's and prion diseases. Another interesting application of Congo red analogues is the development of imaging probes. Based on their small molecular size and penetrability through blood-brain barrier, Congo red congeners can be used for both antemortem and in vivo visualization and quantification of brain amyloids. Therefore, understanding mechanisms involved in dye-amyloidal fibril binding and inhibition of aggregation will provide instructive guides for the design of future compounds, potentially useful for monitoring and treating neurodegenerative diseases.
Detoxification from drug abuse is strongly threatened by the occurrence of renewed episodes of drug intake. In human addicts, relapse to drug seeking may take place even after a considerably long period from the last drug consumption. Over the last decade, the endocannabinoid system has received remarkable attention due to its unique features, including its rewarding properties closely resembling those of the most commonly abused substances and its multiple therapeutic implications. Although limited at present, evidence is now emerging on a possible participation of the endogenous cannabinoid system in the regulation of relapsing phenomena. Both stimulation and blockade of the central cannabinoid CB-sub1 receptor have proved to play an important role in drug- as well as in cue-induced reinstatement of drug seeking behavior. Indeed, while CB-sub1 receptor stimulation may elicit relapse not only to cannabinoid seeking but also to cocaine, heroin, alcohol and methamphetamine, this effect is significantly attenuated, when not fully prevented, by pretreatment with the CB-sub1 receptor antagonist rimonabant. However, corroborating data on the involvement of the cannabinoid system in stress-induced reinstatement are still rather scarce. The present review attempts to collect data obtained from different laboratories using diverse experimental approaches, to provide a comprehensive picture of the recent evidence of a relationship between the cannabinoid system and the neurobiological mechanisms leading to relapse. For each class of abused drugs, the conspicuous progress made in delineating the role of the endocannabinoid system in relapse to drug seeking has been examined by placing particular emphasis on the findings obtained from behavioral studies. After summarizing findings and implications emerging from the reviewed studies, we conclude by briefly discussing what information is still missing and how missing information might be obtained.
We investigated the variability of electrode positions for a multi-channel, custom electrode cap placed onto participants' heads without taking scalp measurements. The electrode positions were digitized in a three-dimensional space for 10 young adult participants on three separate occasions. Positional variability was determined for 15 selected electrodes within the three-dimensional preauricular-nasion (PAN) coordinate system and from this system, angular coordinate variability was also determined. The standard deviations of the 15 selected electrodes ranged from 3.0 to 12.7 mm in the PAN system. These data resulted in a variability of 2.0 degrees to 10.4 degrees among the angular coordinates. The measurements indicated slightly greater variability of electrode positions compared to studies when electrodes were placed using scalp measurements. The implication of this study is that the use of electrode caps may not be appropriate when electroencephalographic (EEG) or evoked potential (EP) techniques depend on accurate electrode placement. Additionally, if a longitudinal study is performed, electrode locations should be checked to ensure that they conform with previous sessions.
Upregulation of functional voltage-gated Na+ channels (VGSCs) occurs in metastatic human breast cancer (BCa) in vitro and in vivo. The present study aimed to ascertain the specific involvement of the &quot;neonatal&quot; splice variant of Nav1.5 (nNav1.5), thought to be predominant, in the VGSC-dependent invasive behaviour of MDA-MB-231 cells. Functional activity of nNav1.5 was suppressed by two different methods targeting nNav1.5: (i) small interfering RNA (siRNA), and (ii) a polyclonal antibody (NESO-pAb); effects upon migration and invasion were determined. nNav1.5 mRNA, protein and signalling were measured using real-time PCR, Western blotting, and patch clamp recording, respectively. Treatment with the siRNA rapidly reduced (by approximately 90%) the level of nNav1.5 (but not adult Nav1.5) mRNA, but the protein reduction was much smaller (approximately 30%), even after 13 days. Nevertheless, the siRNA reduced peak VGSC current density by 33%, and significantly increased the cells' sensitivity to nanomolar tetrodotoxin (TTX). Importantly, the siRNA suppressed in vitro migration by 43%, and eliminated the normally inhibitory effect of TTX. Migrated MDA-MB-231 cells expressed more nNav1.5 protein at the plasma membrane than non-migrated cells. Furthermore, NESO-pAb reduced migration by up to 42%, in a dose-dependent manner. NESO-pAb also reduced Matrigel invasion without affecting proliferation. TTX had no effect on cells already treated with NESO-pAb. It was concluded that nNav1.5 is primarily responsible for the VGSC-dependent enhancement of invasive behaviour in MDA-MB-231 cells. Accordingly, targeting nNav1.5 expression/activity may be useful in clinical management of metastatic BCa.
With the help of PET one can explore the various neurotransmitter-neuroreceptor systems, their interactive balance and their changes during life, i.e., the human brain receptor fingerprint: the highly individual composition of, and balance among, the various receptor systems can be measured both qualitatively (the presence of various receptors in different brain regions) and quantitatively (the density of the receptors, their binding potential, occupancy, etc.). The understanding of the normal constitution of the primate brain neurotransmitter-receptor systems and their pathological changes requires multiligand receptor mapping, using various PET radioligands. Some major components of our brain receptor fingerprint strictly correlate with personality traits, character and temperament, and most probably, with &quot;cognitive styles&quot;, as well. The brain receptor fingerprint is continuously changing during our normal life (maturation, ageing) and short term physiological or pharmacological challenges (sensory or cognitive processes, drug administration etc.) can also modify it. Social interactions, learning, habituation and other lasting interactions with our social and physical environment can significantly modify the receptor fingerprint. Pathological conditions, including neurological and psychiatric diseases strongly affect the normal neuroreceptor-neurotransmitter balance of the brain, as do pharmacological treatments or drug abuse.
Sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (sCJD) does not always present with typical clinical signs, such as myoclonus in association with periodic sharp-wave complexes. We present a 67-year old female patient with initial falls and vertical gaze palsy, suggesting the diagnosis of Progressive Supranuclear Palsy (PSP). EEG and MRI were not contributory. Typical clinical and paraclinical CJD signs were only seen after 17 months. The diagnosis was confirmed by autopsy. - CJD can be a neurodegenerative chameleon. The present case adds to the scare literature of slowly evolving CJD mimicking Parkinsonism related to tauopathies.

The following project aimed at promoting integrated and long-lasting learning is described for an Immunology course, but it may be adapted to other disciplines. Students were asked to develop and carry out a research project to examine the relationship between immune function and stress. The experiments were required to include the assessment of salivary cortisol and salivary IgA (sIgA) with enzyme immunoassays. All other aspects of the experiments were developed by student groups with appropriate guidance from the instructor. Data are presented for one group project that assessed the effect of music on cortisol and sIgA. Overall levels of sIgA and cortisol were consistent with reported values. Students found a significant decrease in cortisol over time. Additionally, there was a trend that supported the overall student hypothesis regarding the effect of stress and immune function. Compared with the same Immunology course that included an instructor-designed experiment using enzyme immunoassays for cortisol and sIgA, several assessments (e.g., final grades and comments on student evaluations) show that overall learning seemed to be much better in the course with the student-directed research project.
Genes most closely related to adenosine monophosphate (AMP)-activated protein kinase, including SAD kinases and Par-1 regulate cell polarity, although AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) modulates cellular energy status. LKB1 (Par-4) is required for normal activation of AMPK in the liver and also regulates cell polarity. AMPK is proposed to inhibit energy consuming activity while initiating energy producing activity during energy limitation. Demonstration that metformin, a common drug for Type 2 diabetes, requires LKB1 for full therapeutic benefit has increased interest in AMPK signaling. Despite the potential importance of AMPK signaling for diabetes, metabolic syndrome and even cancer, the developmental processes regulated by AMPK in genetically mutant animals require further elucidation. Mouse conditional null mutants for AMPK activity will allow genetic elucidation of AMPK function in vivo. This perspective focuses on sequence and structural moieties of AMPK and genetic analysis of AMPK mutations. Interestingly, the predicted protein structure of the carboxy-terminus of AMPKalpha resembles the carboxy-terminal KA-1 domain of MARK3, a Par-1 orthologue.
Amyloid precursor protein (APP) is a member of a gene family that includes two APP-like proteins, APLP1 and 2. Recently, it has been reported that APLP1 and 2 undergo presenilin-dependent gamma-secretase cleavage, as does APP, resulting in the release of an approximately 6 kDa intracellular C-terminal domain (ICD), which can translocate into the nucleus. In this study, we demonstrate that the APLP2-ICDs interact with CP2/LSF/LBP1 (CP2) transcription factor in the nucleus and induce the expression of glycogen synthase kinase 3beta (GSK-3beta), which has broad-ranged substrates such as tau- and beta-catenin. The significance of this finding is substantiated by the in vivo evidence of the increase in the immunoreactivities for the nuclear C-terminal fragments of APLP2, and for GSK-3beta in the AD patients' brain. Taken together, these results suggest that APLP2-ICDs contribute to the AD pathogenesis, by inducing GSK-3beta expression through the interaction with CP2 transcription factor in the nucleus.
Mechanisms by which the hypothalamus senses nutritional status are important for many metabolic diseases, including obesity and diabetes. Now, report that hypothalamic neurons sense nutritional deficit through a cascade of events involving leptin, corticosterone, and glial production of thyroid hormone, leading to neuronal induction of uncoupling protein.
The polarized distribution of K(+) channels in MDCK cells is lost upon harvesting and restored upon re-seeding. Using semi-quantitative PCR, in the present work we find that (i) Cells do not &quot;wait&quot; for the normal recycling of membrane proteins to restore their lost channels, but trigger their replacement, suggesting that the membrane has a way of engaging the nucleus. (ii) Replacement channels do not come from an internal reservoir, as it is the case with Na(+), K(+)-ATPase, but requires a de novo synthesis. (iii) Replacement is not an all-or-none response, since mRNA for MaxiK channels increases by 8-fold after re-seeding, but those for Kv1.6 and Kv1.7 are not affected by harvesting/re-seeding. (iv) TEA, charybdotoxin and iberiotoxin fail to trigger the replacement response in mature monolayers, suggesting that replacement is not due to suppression of channel function. (v) MDCK cells have a typical transporting epithelial phenotype (TEP) consisting of tight junctions (TJs) plus polarity. Although the polarized distribution of K-channels is a prominent attribute of TEP, blocking their function does not perturb the development of TEP, as gauged through the development of TJs, nor level of expression (Western blot) and distribution (confocal microscopy) of occludin, and claudins 1, 3 and 7.
Stem cell therapy holds great promises in medical treatment by, e.g., replacing lost cells, re-constitute healthy cell populations and also in the use of stem cells as vehicles for factor and gene delivery. Embryonic stem cells have rightfully attracted a large interest due to their proven capacity of differentiating into any cell type in the embryo in vivo. Tissue-specific stem cells are however already in use in medical practice, and recently the first systematic medical trials involving human neural stem cell (NSC) therapy have been launched. There are yet many obstacles to overcome and procedures to improve. To ensure progress in the medical use of stem cells increased basic knowledge of the molecular mechanisms that govern stem cell characteristics is necessary. Here we provide a review of the literature on NSCs in various aspects of cell therapy, with the main focus on the potential of using biomaterials to control NSC characteristics, differentiation, and delivery. We summarize results from studies on the characteristics of endogenous and transplanted NSCs in rodent models of neurological and cancer diseases, and highlight recent advancements in polymer compatibility and applicability in regulating NSC state and fate. We suggest that the development of specially designed polymers, such as hydrogels, is a crucial issue to improve the outcome of stem cell therapy in the central nervous system.
In autoimmune disorders of the peripheral nervous system (PNS) such as Guillain-Barr syndrome and chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy, breakdown of the blood-nerve barrier (BNB) has been considered as a key step in the disease process. Hence, it is important to know the cellular property of peripheral nerve microvascular endothelial cells (PnMECs) constituting the bulk of BNB. Although many in vitro models of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) have been established, very few in vitro BNB models have been reported so far. We isolated PnMECs from transgenic rats harboring the temperature-sensitive SV40 large T-antigen gene (tsA58 rat) and investigated the properties of these &quot;barrier-forming cells&quot;. Isolated PnMECs (TR-BNBs) showed high transendothelial electrical resistance and expressed tight junction components and various types of influx as well as efflux transporters that have been reported to function at BBB. Furthermore, we confirmed the in vivo expression of various BBB-forming endothelial cell markers in the endoneurium of a rat sciatic nerve. These results suggest that PnMECs constituting the bulk of BNB have a highly specialized characteristic resembling the endothelial cells forming BBB.
Epidermal growth factor (EGF) induces changes in cell morphology, actin cytoskeleton, and adhesion processes in cultured infantile pituitary cells. The extracellular matrix, through integrin engagement, collaborates with growth factors in cell signaling. We have examined the participation of collagen I/III and collagen plus fibronectin in the EGF response of infantile pituitary cells with respect to their cell morphology and actin cytoskeleton. As a comparison, we have used poly-lysine as a substrate. Infantile cells elicit the EGF response when they are associated with extracellular matrix proteins, but no response can be obtained with poly-lysine as the substrate. Cells acquire a flattened shape and organize their actin filaments and vinculin as in focal adhesions. Because the EGF receptor (EGFR) is linked to the actin cytoskeleton in other cells structuring a microdomain in cell signaling, we have investigated this association and substrate adhesion participation in infantile pituitary cells. The proportion of EGFR associated with the actin cytoskeleton is approximately 31%; no difference has been observed between the substrates used. Cells in suspension show actin-associated EGFR, suggesting an association independent of cell adhesion. However, no colocalization of EGFRs with actin fibers has been observed, suggesting an indirect association. Compared with beta(1)-integrin, which is linked to actin fibers through structural proteins, EGFR binds more strongly with the actin cytoskeleton. This study thus shows cell adhesion dependence on the EGF effect in the actin cytoskeleton arrangement; this is probably favored by the actin fiber/EGFR association that facilitates the cell signaling pathways for actin cytoskeleton organization in infantile pituitary cells.
One of the fastest growing fields in researching treatments for neurodegenerative and other disorders is the use of stem cells. These cells are naturally occurring and can be obtained from three different stages of an organism's life: embryonic, fetal, and adult. In the US, political doctrine has restricted use of federal funds for stem cells, enhancing research towards an adult source. In order to determine how this legislation may be represented by the stem cell field, a retrospective analysis of stem cell articles published in the journal Cell Transplantation over a 2-year period was performed. Cell Transplantation is considered a translational journal from preclinical to clinical, so it was of interest to determine the publication outcome of stem cell articles 6 years after the US regulations. The distribution of the source of stem cells was found to be biased towards the adult stage, but relatively similar over the embryonic and fetal stages. The fetal stem cell reports were primarily neural in origin, whereas the adult stem cell ones were predominantly mesenchymal and used mainly in neural studies. The majority of stem cell studies published in Cell Transplantation were found to fall under the umbrella of neuroscience research. American scientists published the most articles using stem cells with a bias towards adult stem cells, supporting the effect of the legislation, whereas Europe was the leading continent with a bias towards embryonic and fetal stem cells, where research is &quot;controlled&quot; but not restricted. Japan was also a major player in the use of stem cells. Allogeneic transplants (where donor and recipient are the same species) were the most common transplants recorded, although the transplantation of human-derived stem cells into rodents was the most common specific transplantation performed. This demonstrates that the use of stem cells is an increasingly important field (with a doubling of papers between 2005 and 2006), which is likely to develop into a major therapeutic area over the next few decades and that funding restrictions can affect the type of research being performed.
Alpha-Synuclein is thought to play an important role in the pathology of Parkinson's disease (PD). Truncated forms of this protein can be found in PD brain extracts, and these species aggregate faster and are more susceptible to oxidative stress than the full-length protein. We investigated the effect of truncated alpha-synuclein on dopaminergic cells using a transgenic mouse expressing alpha-synuclein (1-120) driven by the rat tyrosine hydroxylase promoter on a mouse alpha-synuclein null background. We found a selective reduction in the yield of dopaminergic cells from transgenic embryonic ventral mesencephalic cell cultures. However, in vivo the substantia nigra/ventral tegmentum dopaminergic cell counts were not reduced in transgenics, although these mice are known to have reduced striatal dopamine. When transplanted to the striatum in the unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned mouse model of PD, dopaminergic cells derived from transgenic embryonic ventral mesencephala were significantly smaller at 6 weeks, and showed a trend towards being less effective at ameliorating rotational asymmetry than those from control alpha-synuclein null mice. These results suggest that alpha-synuclein (1-120) renders dopaminergic cells more susceptible to stress, which may have important implications as to how this truncated protein might contribute to dopaminergic cell death in sporadic PD.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a devastating neurodegenerative disorder that occurs in patients with a mutation in the huntingtin or IT15 gene. Patients are plagued by early cognitive signs, motor deficits, and psychiatric disturbances. Symptoms are attributed to cell death in the striatum and disruption of cortical-striatal circuitry. Mechanisms of cell death are unclear, but processes involving mitochondrial abnormalities, excitotoxicity, and abnormal protein degradation have been implicated. Many factors likely contribute to neuron death and dysfunction, and this has made it difficult to systematically address the pathology in HD. Pharmaceutical therapies are commonly used in patients to treat disease symptoms. These have limited benefit and do not address the inexorable disease progression. Several neuroprotective therapies are being evaluated in animal models of HD as well as in clinical trials. Similarly, cell replacement strategies such as fetal transplantation have been used in the clinic with minimal success, making future cell replacement strategies such as stem cell therapy uncertain. This review describes the disease pathology in HD and addresses many of the past and emerging therapeutic strategies.
The aim of this study was to explore the description of the migraine attack of Pontius Pilate (a character in the novel The Master and Margarita by M. A. Bulgakov). Some of its features are analysed in light of current migraine literature. It is hypothesized that, at least in part, this description is based on the personal experience of the novel's author. We studied and analysed the text of the novel, other works by Bulgakov, his biography, including his medical training and practice, and the recently published diaries of Bulgakov and his wife E. S. Bulgakova. The novel contains a comprehensive description of a migraine attack. It includes a prodrome/aura of osmophobia. Olfactory perception during or shortly before the migraine attack is altered to the point where neutral or even pleasant odours become unbearable. Bulgakov's extensive history of migraines is seen in his diary, the diary of his wife, letters and other literary works. This is one of the most detailed and extensive depictions of a migraine attack in literature, with osmophobia described with great emphasis. It is likely that Pilate's migraine is described based on the personal history of the novel's author.
Several studies have suggested that iron metabolism may be involved in the pathogenesis of migraine. Using a case-control design, we performed an association study in a cohort of Italian migraine patients to evaluate whether a particular allele or genotype of the haemochromatosis gene (HFE) would modify the occurrence and clinical features of the disease. We genotyped 256 migraine patients and 237 healthy age-, sex- and ethnicity-matched controls for the C282Y and H63D polymorphisms of the HFE gene. Phenotype and allele frequencies of both polymorphisms were similarly distributed in migraine patients and controls. The patients carrying the DD genotype of the H63D polymorphism showed a later age at onset of the disease and an increased number of migraine attacks. Our data suggest that the HFE gene is not a major disease gene for migraine. However, the H63D polymorphism of the HFE gene may be considered a modifying genetic factor in migraine.
A major challenge for computational neuroscience is to understand the computational function of lamina-specific synaptic connection patterns in stereotypical cortical microcircuits. Previous work on this problem had focused on hypothesized specific computational roles of individual layers and connections between layers and had tested these hypotheses through simulations of abstract neural network models. We approach this problem by studying instead the dynamical system defined by more realistic cortical microcircuit models as a whole and by investigating the influence that its laminar structure has on the transmission and fusion of information within this dynamical system. The circuit models that we examine consist of Hodgkin-Huxley neurons with dynamic synapses, based on detailed data from Thomson and others (2002), Markram and others (1998), and Gupta and others (2000). We investigate to what extent this cortical microcircuit template supports the accumulation and fusion of information contained in generic spike inputs into layer 4 and layers 2/3 and how well it makes this information accessible to projection neurons in layers 2/3 and layer 5. We exhibit specific computational advantages of such data-based lamina-specific cortical microcircuit model by comparing its performance with various types of control models that have the same components and the same global statistics of neurons and synaptic connections but are missing the lamina-specific structure of real cortical microcircuits. We conclude that computer simulations of detailed lamina-specific cortical microcircuit models provide new insight into computational consequences of anatomical and physiological data.
Activation-dependent brain plasticity in humans on a structural level has been demonstrated in adults after 3 months of training a visio-motor skill. The exact timescale of usage-dependent structural changes, whether days, months, or years, is, however, still debated. A better understanding of the temporal parameters may help elucidate to what extent this type of cortical plasticity contributes to fast adapting cortical processes that may be relevant to learning and effects of treatments. Using voxel-based morphometry, we are able to show that repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation delivered to the superior temporal cortex causes macroscopic cortical changes in gray matter (GM) in the auditory cortex as early as within 5 days of continuous intervention. These structural alterations are mirrored by changes in cortical evoked potentials attributed to the GM changes and demonstrate the rapid dynamics of these processes, which occur within a time range characteristic for the onset of behavioral effects induced by a variety of treatment methods for neuropsychiatric diseases. Our finding suggests that cortical plasticity on a structural level in adult humans is already detectable after 1 week, which provides support for fast adjusting neuronal systems, such as spine and synapse turnover, and contradicts slow evolving mechanisms, such as neuronal or glial cell genesis.
Delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (Delta9-THC) has profound effects on higher cognitive functions, and exposure to Delta9-THC has been associated with the appearance or exacerbation of the clinical features of schizophrenia. These actions appear to be mediated via the CB1 receptor, the principal cannabinoid receptor expressed in the brain. However, the distribution of the CB1 receptor in neocortical regions of the primate brain that mediate cognitive functions is not known. We therefore investigated the immunocytochemical localization of the CB1 receptor in the brains of macaque monkeys and humans using antibodies that specifically recognize the N- or C-terminus of the CB1 receptor. In monkeys, intense CB1 immunoreactivity was observed primarily in axons and boutons. Across neocortical regions of the monkey brain, CB1-immunoreactive (IR) axons exhibited considerable heterogeneity in density and laminar distribution. Neocortical association regions, such as the prefrontal and cingulate cortices, demonstrated a higher density, and exhibited a unique laminar pattern of CB1-IR axons, compared with primary sensory and motor cortices. Similar regional and laminar distributions of CB1-IR axons were also present in the human neocortex. CB1-IR axons had more prominent varicosities in human tissue, but this difference appeared to represent a postmortem effect as similar morphological features increased in unperfused monkey tissue as a function of postmortem interval. In electron microscopy studies of perfused monkey prefrontal cortex, CB1 immunoreactivity was predominantly found in axon terminals that exclusively formed symmetric synapses. The high density, distinctive laminar distribution, and localization to inhibitory terminals of CB1 receptors in primate higher-order association regions suggests that the CB1 receptor may play a critical role in the circuitry that subserves cognitive functions such as those that are disturbed in schizophrenia.
Traditionally, it is believed, that the primary function of the cerebellum is to coordinate movement. During the past three decades, it has been controversially discussed, whether the cerebellum may also contribute to cognition and mental states like emotions. In this paper, no position relating to this controversy will be taken. Instead, the hypothesis of non-motor functions of the cerebellum will be viewed from the position of the philosophy of mind. The remarkably uniform microscopic structure and neuronal networks of the cerebellum have led to computer analogies by several authors. The main idea of functionalism, i.e., a theory within the philosophy of mind, is that the mental relates to the physical as computer software does to hardware. This raises the question, whether a cerebellar contribution to cognition and mental states would support functionalism in the philosophy of mind. No support of functionalism could be found in this study, investigating the classical philosophical arguments pro and con functionalism such as those of multiple realizability, the Chinese room and the explanatory gap, while taking the results of cerebellar research into account. On the other hand, philosophical reflection suggests a careful use of the phrases &quot;cognitive dysmetria&quot; (Andreasen et al. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA. 1996;93:9985-90) in the context of mental illness and of &quot;dysmetria of thought&quot; (Schmahmann Arch Neurol. 1991;48:1178-87). According to the argument of the explanatory gap there is at present little support for the assumption that the phenomenal experiencing of an altered emotion can be reduced to the dysmetria of movement.
The inferior olive (IO) has among the highest densities of neuronal gap junctions in the nervous system. These gap junctions are proposed to be the underlying mechanism for generating synchronous Purkinje cell complex spike (CS) activity. Gap junctions between neurons are formed mostly by connexin36 proteins. Thus, the connexin36 knockout (Cx36KO) mouse provides an opportunity to test whether gap junction coupling between IO neurons is the basis of CS synchrony. Multiple electrode recordings of crus 2 CSs were obtained from wildtype (Wt) and Cx36KO mice. Wts showed statistically significant levels of CS synchrony, with the same spatial distribution as has been reported for other species: high CS synchrony levels occurred mostly among Purkinje cells within the same parasagittally-oriented cortical strip. In contrast, in Cx36KOs, synchrony was at chance levels and had no preferential spatial orientation, supporting the gap junction hypothesis. CS firing rates for Cx36KOs were significantly lower than for Wts, suggesting that electrical coupling is an important determinant of IO excitability. Rhythmic CS activity was present in both Wt and Cx36KOs, suggesting that individual IO cells can act as intrinsic oscillators. In addition, the climbing fiber reflex was absent in the Cx36KOs, validating its use as a tool for assessing electrical coupling of IO neurons. Zebrin II staining and anterograde tracing showed that cerebellar cortical organization and the topography of the olivocerebellar projection are normal in the Cx36KO. Thus, the differences in CS activity between Wts and Cx36KOs likely reflect the loss of electrical coupling of IO cells.
An exploration into cerebellar activity during the perception and production of speech and song may elucidate general underlying cerebellar functions. Recently, the cerebellum has been hypothesized to be involved with sharpening sensory input, temporal coordination and processing of motor articulation and perception, as well as instantiation of internal models that simulate the input-output characteristics of a specific system. Sung language and spoken language share many common features (physiology for articulation and perception as well as phonology, phonotactics, syntax, and semantics of the underlying language), although they differ in certain vocal and prosodic aspects. A review of the literature on perception and production of singing and speech reveals considerable overlap in the lateral aspect of the VI lobule of the posterior cerebellum, a region known to somatotopically represent the lips and tongue. This region may instantiate internal models of vocal tract articulation that simulate well learned phonological and/or segmental articulatory - auditory/orosensory mappings utilized for both speech and singing. Recent results show tendencies for left cerebellar hemispheric specialization for processing of singing and right specialization for processing of speech, both in the VI lobule of the cerebellum, inferior to that found for representing both speech and singing. Given the crossed pattern of cerebellar-cortical anatomical connectivity the findings are consistent with the hypothesis that the right cerebellum differentially processes high pass filtered information (segmental properties) and the left cerebellum differentially processes low pass filtered information (prosodic, melodic properties). Further research is necessary to examine these hypotheses and their alternatives directly.
A distinction in temporal performance has been identified between two classes of rhythmic movements: those requiring explicit timing of salient events marking successive cycles, i.e., event timing, and continuous movements in which timing is hypothesized to be emergent. Converging evidence in support of this distinction is reviewed, including neuropsychological studies showing that individuals with cerebellar damage are selectively impaired on tasks requiring event timing (e.g., tapping). Recent behavioral evidence in neurologically healthy individuals suggests that for continuous movements (e.g., circle drawing), the initial cycle is marked by a transformation from event to emergent timing, allowing the participant to match their movement rate to an externally defined cycle duration. We report a new experiment in which individuals with cerebellar ataxia produced rhythmic tapping or circle drawing movements. Participants were either paced by a metronome or unpaced. Ataxics showed a disproportionate increase in temporal variability during tapping compared to circle drawing, although they were more variable than controls on both tasks. However, two predictions of the transformation hypothesis were not confirmed. First, the ataxics did not show a selective impairment on circle drawing during the initial cycles, a phase when we hypothesized event timing would be required to establish the movement rate. Second, the metronome did not increase variability of the performance of the ataxics. Taken together, these results provide further evidence that the integrity of the cerebellum is especially important for event timing, although our attempt to specify the relationship between event and emergent timing was not successful.
The cerebellum has long been considered to be mainly involved in motor function. In the last 20 years, evidence from neuroimaging studies and from investigations of patients with cerebellar lesions has shown that the cerebellum plays a role in a range of cognitive functions. While cerebellar contributions have been shown for learning and memory, the cerebellum has also been linked to higher order cognitive control processes frequently referred to as executive functions. Although it is widely accepted that the cerebellum contributes to cognitive processing, the nature of cerebellar involvement is not well understood. The present paper focuses on the role of the cerebellum in executive processing, reviewing findings derived from neuroimaging studies or from studies investigating deficits related to cerebellar dysfunction. As executive functions cannot be considered as a unitary concept, special emphasis is put on cerebellar contributions to different aspects of executive control such as working memory, multitasking or inhibition. Referring to models derived from motor control, possible mechanisms of cerebellar involvement in executive processing are discussed. Finally, methodological problems in assessing executive deficits in general and in assessing the cerebellar contribution to executive processing in particular are addressed.


Stroke is the second to third most common cause of death in adults, and more than a third of people who survive a stroke will have severe disability. Therapeutic options currently centre on fibrinolytic treatment, but its limitations restrict use to a small proportion of patients. Although a wide range of neuroprotective substances has been effective in experimental models, they have repeatedly failed in clinical trials because of toxicity or loss of effectiveness. Recent strategies based on neuroplasticity and cellular therapy have shown significant efficacy in improving functional recovery in experimental models, although further study is still necessary to clarify how the brain responds to ischaemic damage and is able to reorganize itself in the long term. Although steps must still be taken to ensure the safety and feasibility of treatments based on neuroplasticity and cellular therapy, neurorepair strategies provide promising future therapeutic options for stroke.
Therapeutic options in the acute phase of a stroke are limited despite a great number of neuroprotectant drugs that have been developed in the last few decades. Although neuroprotection has been proved in animal models, translation of experimental efficacy into clinical benefit in humans is a difficult task. With the aim of bringing closer laboratory and clinical results, a change and unification of the methodology used is needed. Evaluating neuroprotectant capacity to salvage the penumbra using MRI both in animals and humans as a surrogate outcome can help to select drugs more likely to demonstrate clinical benefit. In addition, neuroprotection should enlarge the window of opportunity for reperfusion therapies and protect vascular structures to reduce reperfusion injury and the clinical complications related to thrombolytic treatment. A better understanding of ischemic and restorative brain mechanisms beyond the acute phase of stroke may open new therapeutic options to improve stroke recovery.
In this paper, an overview is given of trials with oral anticoagulants and dipyridamole in the secondary prevention after transient ischaemic attack or minor stroke. In patients with atrial fibrillation, the secondary preventive treatment of first choice is oral anticoagulation with an aimed international normalised ratio between 2.0 and 3.0. In patients without a cardiac source of embolism, a combination therapy of low-dose aspirin and dipyridamole 200 mg twice daily is the treatment of choice. These treatment strategies do however not prevent all recurrent strokes or vascular complications, and research for more effective strategies is warranted.
Here I have reviewed how good luck, bad luck and barriers determined my research directions in stroke over the last 30 or so years. Good luck should be exploited, and very often barriers can be not just overcome but put to good use as well. It is crucial for the young researcher to find mentors as good as I have had, and to move around to gain a broad experience, and for the experienced researchers to bring on the younger generation as I have tried to do.


The Second Consensus Conference on Stroke Management took place from 22 to 24 March 2006 in Helsingborg, Sweden. The meeting was arranged by the International Stroke Society, endorsed by the European Stroke Council and International Stroke Society, and co-sponsored by the WHO Regional Office for Europe. It was arranged in collaboration with the European Region of the World Confederation for Physical Therapy and the European Association of Neuroscience Nurses. The patients' organization Stroke Alliance for Europe also participated. The meeting adopted the Helsingborg Declaration 2006 on European Stroke Strategies, a statement of the overall aims and goals of five aspects of stroke management (organization of stroke services, management of acute stroke, prevention, rehabilitation, evaluation of stroke outcome and quality assessment) to be achieved by 2015.



Previous studies have shown that ageing may induce deficits in hippocampal-dependent learning and memory tasks, the spatial task being most extensively applied in rats. It is proposed that taste learning and memory tasks may assist in understanding the ageing of memory systems, giving access to a more complete picture. Taste learning tasks allow us to explore a variety of learning phenomena in safe and aversive memories using similar behavioral procedures. In demanding the same sensory, response, and motivational requirements, this approach provides reliable comparisons between the performance of hippocampal lesioned and aged rats in different types of memory. Present knowledge on the effect of both ageing and hippocampal damage in complex taste learning phenomena is reviewed. Besides inducing deficits in hippocampal-dependent phenomena, such as blocking of conditioned taste aversion, while at the same time leaving intact nonhippocampal-dependent effects, such as latent inhibition, ageing is also associated with an increased neophobia by previous aversive taste memories and enhanced taste aversion conditioning which cannot be explained by age-related changes in taste or visceral distress sensitivity. In all, the results indicate a peculiar organization of the memory systems during aging that cannot be explained by a general cognitive decline or exclusively by the decay of the hippocampal function.
Understanding the relationship between brain and behavior is the fundamental challenge in neuroscience. We focus on chemosensation and chemosensory learning in larval Drosophila and review what is known about its molecular and cellular bases. Detailed analyses suggest that the larval olfactory system, albeit much reduced in cell number, shares the basic architecture, both in terms of receptor gene expression and neuronal circuitry, of its adult counterpart as well as of mammals. With respect to the gustatory system, less is known in particular with respect to processing of gustatory information in the central nervous system, leaving generalizations premature. On the behavioral level, a learning paradigm for the association of odors with food reinforcement has been introduced. Capitalizing on the knowledge of the chemosensory pathways, we review the first steps to reveal the genetic and cellular bases of olfactory learning in larval Drosophila. We argue that the simplicity of the larval chemosensory system, combined with the experimental accessibility of Drosophila on the genetic, electrophysiological, cellular, and behavioral level, makes this system suitable for an integrated understanding of chemosensation and chemosensory learning.
Faculty members from three different institutions, each with long-standing experience teaching development, present strategies for teaching normal development in undergraduate and graduate medical education. This article provides an overview of licensing body requirements, teaching methodology, audiovisual and textbook resources, goals and objectives (knowledge, skills, and attitudes), and sample curricula for teaching human development to medical students, general psychiatry residents, and child and adolescent psychiatry residents. The challenges of teaching development to various groups of trainees with different required course lengths and expected levels of competency, using lifespan and topical approaches, are reviewed.
In this study, we investigated the age difference in numeral recognition and calculation in one group of school-aged children (n = 38) and one of undergraduate students (n = 26) using the event-related potential (ERP) methods. Consistent with previous reports, the age difference was significant in behavioral results. Both numeral recognition and calculation elicited a negativity peaking at about 170-280 ms (N2) and a positivity peaking at 200-470 ms (pSW) in raw ERPs, and a difference potential (dN3) between 360 and 450 ms. The difference between the two age groups indicated that more attention resources were devoted to arithmetical tasks in school-aged children, and that school-aged children and undergraduate students appear to use different strategies to solve arithmetical problems. The analysis of frontal negativity suggested that numeral recognition and mental calculation impose greater load on working memory and executive function in schoolchildren than in undergraduate students. The topography data determined that the parietal regions were responsible for arithmetical function in humans, and there was an age-related difference in the area of cerebral activation.


The antagonism of melatonin in models of Parkinson's disease (PD) can reduce the severity of motor impairment associated with dopamine (DA) degeneration. In consideration of the potent antidepressant effects of bright light therapy (LT), that LT suppresses melatonin secretion, that depression is commonly observed in PD, and that exposure to constant light facilitates recovery from experimental PD, the object of the present study was to strategically administer LT to PD patients and observe the effects on depression, insomnia, and motor performance. Twelve patients diagnosed with PD were exposed to white fluorescent light for 1-1.5 h at an intensity of 1000 to 1500 lux once daily commencing 1 h prior to the usual time of sleep onset, approximately 22:00 h in most patients. All patients were assessed before LT commenced and at two weeks, five weeks, and regular intervals thereafter. Within two weeks after commencing LT, marked improvement in bradykinaesia and rigidity was observed in most patients. Tremor was not affected by LT treatment; however, agitation, dyskinaesia, and psychiatric side effects were reduced, as verified by decreased requirement for DA replacement therapy. Elevated mood, improved sleep, decreased seborrhea, reduced impotence, and increased appetite were observed after LT. LT permitted the reduction of the dose of L-dopa, bromocriptine, or deprenyl in some patients by up to 50% without loss of symptom control. Factors limiting the efficacy of LT included multiple disease states, treatment compliance, polypharmacy, emotional stress, advanced age, and predominance of positive symptoms. The results of this case series study confirms previous work describing light as efficacious in the treatment of PD and suggest that controlled trials may help to elucidate how LT might be used strategically as an adjunct therapy to improve the morbidity of PD patients.
It was recently reported that the circadian clock machinery controls plasma levels of factor (F) VII, the serine protease triggering blood coagulation. Here, by exploiting the mouse model, this study showed that variations of photoperiod (i.e., winter or summer conditions or simulated chronic jetlag conditions) have a strong impact on plasma FVII activity levels. Under conditions mimicking summer or winter photoperiods, FVII activity showed a clear 24 h rhythmicity. Interestingly, mean daily FVII activity levels were significantly reduced in mice exposed to summer photoperiods. Behavioral activity rhythms under both photoperiods were synchronized to LD cycles, and the amount of activity per 24 h was comparable. The authors also investigated the influence of chronic jetlag (CJL) on the FVII activity rhythms, which can be easily mimicked in mice through continuous abrupt shifts in the lighting schedule. The exposure of mice to simulated CJL of either consecutive westward or consecutive westward and eastward flights for 15 days did not abolish the behavioral activity rhythms but was associated with a period significantly different from 24 h. Intriguingly, both types of CJL exerted a strong influence on FVII activity rhythms, which were virtually suppressed. Moreover, the mean daily FVII activity was significantly lower in the CJL than in the winter photoperiod condition. Taken together, these findings in mice provide novel insights into the modulation of FVII activity levels, which might have implications for human pathophysiology.
Functional Neuroanatomy, an interactive electronic neuroanatomical atlas, was designed for first year medical students. Medical students have much to learn in a limited time; therefore a major goal in the atlas design was that it facilitate rapid, accurate information retrieval. To assess this feature, we designed a testing scenario in which students who had never taken a neuroanatomy course were asked to complete two equivalent tests, one using the electronic atlas and one using a comparable hard copy atlas, in a limited period of time. The tests were too long to be completed in the time allotted, so test scores were measures of how quickly correct information could be retrieved from each source. Statistical analysis of the data showed that the tests were of equal difficulty and that accurate information retrieval was significantly faster using the electronic atlas when compared with the hard copy atlas (P &lt; 0.0001). Post-test focus groups (n = 4) allowed us to infer that the following design features contributed to rapid information access: the number of structures in the database was limited to those that are relevant to a practicing physician; all of the program modules were presented in both text and image form on the index screen, which doubled as a site map; pages were layered electronically such that information was hidden until requested, structures available on each page were listed alphabetically and could be accessed by clicking on their name; and an illustrated glossary was provided and equipped with a search engine.


Cognitive event-related potential (ERP) studies of memory and language impairments in amnesia and Alzheimer's disease (AD) are reviewed. Well-circumscribed lesions of the medial temporal lobe (MTL) or diencephalon causing an amnestic syndrome, an inability to encode and retrieve episodic memories beyond the brief duration of working memory, appear to produce altered plasticity of the late positive P600 component, but usually spare P300 and N400 components. The neuropathology of AD affects MTL and extends to neocortical association areas, causing deficits of episodic and semantic memory. In AD dementia, the P300, N400, and P600 all commonly show abnormalities. ERP studies of individuals with mild cognitive impairment may reveal neurophysiological changes prior to the emergence of clinical deficits, which could advance the early detection and diagnosis of AD.









The treatment of epilepsy in pregnancy is particularly challenging in that the fetal and maternal risks associated with maternal seizures need to be balanced against the potential teratogenic effects of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs). Pregnancy is known to affect the pharmacokinetics of older-generation AEDs. Understanding such alterations is important in the effort to optimise drug therapy since they may affect seizure control as well as fetal drug exposure. Therapeutic drug monitoring has therefore been recommended to control for changes in the disposition of the older-generation AEDs during pregnancy. Much less is known about gestation-induced alterations in the pharmacokinetics of the newer AEDs that have been introduced in the last 15 years. Lamotrigine is by far the most extensively studied of the newer AEDs. Pronounced alterations have been reported in the apparent clearance of lamotrigine, with an increase of &gt;300% from baseline in late pregnancy in some patients on monotherapy, most likely due to enhanced metabolism. The available data suggest that the corresponding decline in plasma concentrations can be associated with loss of seizure control. More limited data indicate that a similar decline in plasma concentrations of the active monohydroxy derivative of oxcarbazepine may occur in late pregnancy. Preliminary experience also suggests that a significant fall in plasma concentrations of levetiracetam may occur during pregnancy. No systematic information is available on the pharmacokinetics during pregnancy of other newer AEDs (e.g. gabapentin, pregabalin, tiagabine, topiramate or zonisamide). Given the importance of maintaining optimal treatment of epilepsy during pregnancy, therapeutic drug monitoring appears to be justified for lamotrigine and oxcarbazepine in particular. Systematic studies of the effects of pregnancy on the pharmacokinetics of the other newer-generation AEDs are urgently needed.

Given the well-established role of benzodiazepines in treating anxiety disorders, beta-carbolines, spanning a spectrum from full agonists to full inverse agonists at the benzodiazepine allosteric site for the GABA(A) receptor, can provide valuable insight into the neural mechanisms underlying anxiety-related physiology and behavior. FG-7,142 is a partial inverse agonist at the benzodiazepine allosteric site with its highest affinity for the alpha1 subunit-containing GABA(A) receptor, although it is not selective. FG-7,142 also has its highest efficacy for modulation of GABA-induced chloride flux mediated at the alpha1 subunit-containing GABA(A) receptor. FG-7,142 activates a recognized anxiety-related neural network and interacts with serotonergic, dopaminergic, cholinergic, and noradrenergic modulatory systems within that network. FG-7,142 has been shown to induce anxiety-related behavioral and physiological responses in a variety of experimental paradigms across numerous mammalian and non-mammalian species, including humans. FG-7,142 has proconflict actions across anxiety-related behavioral paradigms, modulates attentional processes, and increases cardioacceleratory sympathetic reactivity and neuroendocrine reactivity. Both acute and chronic FG-7,142 treatment are proconvulsive, upregulate cortical adrenoreceptors, decrease subsequent actions of GABA and beta-carboline agonists, and increase the effectiveness of subsequent GABA(A) receptor antagonists and beta-carboline inverse agonists. FG-7,142, as a partial inverse agonist, can help to elucidate individual components of full agonism of benzodiazepine binding sites and may serve to identify the specific GABA(A) receptor subtypes involved in specific behavioral and physiological responses.
Agmatine is an endogenous neuromodulator that, based on animal studies, has the potential for new drug development. As an endogenous aminoguanidine compound (1-amino-4-guanidinobutane), it is structurally unique compared with other monoamines. Agmatine was long thought to be synthesised only in lower life forms, until its biosynthetic pathway (decarboxylation of arginine) was described in the mammalian brain in 1994. Human arginine decarboxylase has been cloned and shown to have 48% identity to ornithine decarboxylase. In neurons of the brain and spinal cord, agmatine is packaged into synaptic vesicles and released upon neuronal depolarisation. Other evidence of a neuromodulation role for agmatine is the presence of a specific cellular uptake mechanism and a specific metabolic enzyme (agmatinase; which forms putrescine).Initially, agmatine was conceptualised as an endogenous clonidine-displacing substance of imidazoline receptors; however, it has now been established to have affinity for several transmembrane receptors, such as alpha(2)-adrenergic, imidazoline I(1) and glutamatergic NMDA receptors. In addition to activity at these receptors, agmatine irreversibly inhibits neuronal nitric oxide synthase and downregulates inducible nitric oxide synthase. Endogenous agmatine is induced in response to stress and/or inflammation. Stressful conditions that induce agmatine include hypoxic-ischaemia and cold-restraint stress of ulcerogenic proportion. Induction of agmatine in the brain seems to occur in astrocytes, although neurons also synthesise agmatine. The effects of injected agmatine in animals include anticonvulsant-, antineurotoxic- and antidepressant-like actions. Intraperitoneal or intracerebroventricular injections of agmatine rapidly elicit antidepressant-like behavioural changes in the rodent forced swim test and tail suspension test. Intraperitoneal injections of agmatine into rats and mice also elicit acute anxiolytic-like behavioural changes in the elevated plus-maze stress test. In an animal model of acute stress disorder, intraperitoneal agmatine injections diminish contextual fear learning. Furthermore, intraperitoneal injections of agmatine reduce alcohol and opioid dependence by diminishing behaviour in a rat conditioned place preference paradigm. Based on these findings, agmatine appears to be an endogenous neuromodulator of mental stress. The possible roles and/or beneficial effects of agmatine in stress-related disorders, such as depression, anxiety and post-traumatic stress disorder, merit further investigation.
To date, a number of hypotheses of the cause of Alzheimer's disease, the most common form of dementia, have been postulated. The beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta) is the major constituent of senile plaques, which together with atrophy and neurofibrillary tangles, is the main neuropathological finding in Alzheimer's disease. It is a widely accepted theory that aggregation of Abeta into plaques is an initial event in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease, driving neurodegeneration. The cholesterol hypothesis, primarily based on in vitro and animal studies, states that increased levels of cholesterol promote the production of Abeta. Furthermore, treating animals with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors ('statins'; cholesterol-lowering agents), or adding these agents to cell culture, results in decreased production of Abeta. This 'positive' effect of statin treatment has further been verified by some, but not all, longitudinal studies where a reduced prevalence of Alzheimer's disease is seen among patients taking statins. These findings have together been interpreted to indicate that statins act via a cholesterol-dependent mechanism, reducing the production of Abeta and, hence, the risk of developing Alzheimer's disease. This review focuses on the cholesterol hypothesis of Alzheimer's disease and investigations into its validity in the clinical setting, i.e. the outcome of clinical trials where the effect of statin treatment on Abeta production has been studied. To date, the cholesterol hypothesis has not been shown to be valid in clinical trials. We hypothesise that the vascular contributions in Alzheimer's disease may be one possible mechanism for statins to interfere with the disease process and reduce the prevalence of Alzheimer's disease. We also suggest that statins may act through the inflammatory pathway. Both of these mechanistic suggestions are good candidates, supported by the literature, for the underlying mechanistic link between statin treatment and a reduced prevalence for Alzheimer's disease.
There is growing basic-science interest in the mechanisms underpinning the positive effects of exercise on brain function and cognitive-affective performance. There is also increasing clinical evidence that exercise may prevent and treat various neuropsychiatric disorders. At the same time, there is growing awareness that athletic performance is mediated in crucial ways by central nervous system mechanisms. The relevant mechanisms in all these cases requires further exploration, but likely includes neurotrophic, neuroendocrine, and neurotransmitter systems, which in turn are crucial mediators of psychopathology and resilience. The hypothesis that Homo sapiens evolved as a specialist endurance runner provides an intriguing context against which to research the proximal mechanisms relevant to a cognitive-affective neuroscience of exercise.
This study examined co-morbid generalized anxiety disorder and/or panic disorder and personality disorders as predictors of treatment outcomes in adult outpatients with obsessive-compulsive disorder. The patients received exposure with response prevention (ERP) treatment with the addition of either elements of cognitive therapy (ERP+CT) or relaxation training (ERP+REL). It was hypothesized that the addition of cognitive interventions would yield better treatment outcomes for patients with co-morbid generalized anxiety disorder and/or panic disorder. It was also hypothesized that patients with any personality disorder would show less treatment gains in both conditions. Using intention-to-treat criteria, patients with generalized anxiety disorder and/or panic disorder co-morbidity showed less treatment gains at post-treatment across both treatment conditions. This group showed significantly more treatment gains in the ERP+CT condition at the post-treatment and the 12-month follow-up assessments compared with patients in the ERP+REL condition. However, this was not significant when comparing treatment completers. Patients with a co-morbid Cluster A or B personality disorder showed significantly less treatment gains in both treatment conditions at the 12-month follow-up assessment. Among treatment completers, patients with a Cluster C personality disorder showed significantly better outcomes at the post-treatment assessment in the ERP+REL treatment condition. These results, clinical implications, and the importance of further investigations are discussed.
The aim of this study was to evaluate inter-rater reliability when using the Swedish version of the Motivational Interviewing Treatment Code (MITI) as an adjunct to MI training, clinical practice and research. Coders were trained to use the MITI for scoring taped sessions. The 4-month basic training had a duration of 39 hours. Following training, 60 audio-taped live interviews were randomly assigned for MITI coding. Mean intra-class correlation (ICC) coefficients were calculated for 7 coders across all pairs of coders. Cronbach's alpha was calculated to estimate the covariance between each pair across their common interviews. Six months later, a second inter-rater reliability test was performed, when 5 coders coded the same 15 randomly selected tapes. At the second reliability testing the mean ICC was 0.81 and the mean Cronbach's alpha was 0.96. However, the ICC varied for different sub-variables of the MITI, ranging from 0.42 empathy to 0.79 for number of Closed questions. In conclusion, MITI shows promising potential to be a reliable tool to confirm and enhance MI training as well as practice in clinical settings and in evaluating MI integrity in clinical MI research. However, coder assessment of empathy and MI-spirit, &quot;global&quot; variables, requires further refinement.

Autism spectrum disorders (ASD) are complex neurodevelopmental conditions characterized by deficits in social communication, absence or delay in language, and stereotyped and repetitive behaviors. Results from genetic studies reveal one pathway associated with susceptibility to ASD, which includes the synaptic cell adhesion molecules NLGN3, NLGN4, and NRXN1 and a postsynaptic scaffolding protein SHANK3. This protein complex is crucial for the maintenance of functional synapses as well as the adequate balance between neuronal excitation and inhibition. Among the factors that could modulate this pathway are the genes controlling circadian rhythms. Indeed, sleep disorders and low melatonin levels are frequently observed in ASD. In this context, an alteration of both this synaptic pathway and the setting of the clock would greatly increase the risk of ASD. In this chapter, I report genetic and neurobiological findings that highlight the major role of synaptic and clock genes in the susceptibility to ASD. On the basis of these lines of evidence, I propose that future studies of ASD should investigate the circadian modulation of synaptic function as a focus for functional analyses and the development of new therapeutic strategies.
In animals, circadian behavior can be analyzed as an integrated system, beginning with genes and leading ultimately to behavioral outputs. In the last decade, the molecular mechanism of circadian clocks has been unraveled primarily by the use of phenotype-driven (forward) genetic analysis in a number of model systems. Circadian oscillations are generated by a set of genes forming a transcriptional autoregulatory feedback loop. In mammals, there is a &quot;core&quot; set of circadian genes that form the primary negative feedback loop of the clock mechanism (Clock/Npas2, Bmal1, Per1, Per2, Cry1, Cry2, and CK1epsilon). A further dozen candidate genes have been identified and have additional roles in the circadian gene network such as the feedback loop involving Rev-erbalpha. Despite this remarkable progress, it is clear that a significant number of genes that strongly influence and regulate circadian rhythms in mammals remain to be discovered and identified. As part of a large-scale N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea mutagenesis screen using a wide range of nervous system and behavioral phenotypes, we have identified a number of new circadian mutants in mice. Here, we describe a new short-period circadian mutant, part-time (prtm), which is caused by a loss-of-function mutation in the Cryptochrome1 (Cry1) gene. We also describe a long-period circadian mutant named Overtime (Ovtm). Positional cloning and genetic complementation reveal that Ovtm is encoded by the F-box protein FBXL3, a component of the SKP1-CUL1-F-box protein (SCF) E3 ubiquitin ligase complex. The Ovtm mutation causes an isoleucine to threonine (I364T) substitution leading to a loss of function in FBXL3 that interacts specifically with the CRYPTOCHROME (CRY) proteins. In Ovtm mice, expression of the PERIOD proteins PER1 and PER2 is reduced; however, the CRY proteins CRY1 and CRY2 are unchanged. The loss of FBXL3 function leads to a stabilization of the CRY proteins, which in turn leads to a global transcriptional repression of the Per and Cry genes. Thus, Fbxl3(Ovtm) defines a molecular link between CRY turnover and CLOCK/BMAL1-dependent circadian transcription to modulate circadian period.
Circadian rhythms offer probably the best understanding of how genes control behavior, and much of this understanding has come from studies in Drosophila. More recently, genetic manipulation of clock neurons in Drosophila has helped identify how daily patterns of activity are programmed by different clock neuron groups. Here, we review some of the more recent findings on the fly molecular clock and ask what more the fly model can offer to circadian biologists.
Rhythms of sleep and wakefulness (typically measured as rest/activity rhythms) are among the most prominent of biological rhythms and therefore were among the first to be recorded in early chronobiological studies. These rhythms can provide useful information about the central biological clock, although an appreciation of the problems associated with using rest/activity to infer central clock function is important in the design and interpretation of chronobiological experiments in both animals and humans. Here, we review the anatomical and neurophysiologic bases of sleep regulation in mammals as well as similarities and differences between the sleep of humans and that of other organisms. We outline how human sleep is measured, the role of the circadian system in models of human sleep regulation, and human circadian rhythm sleep disorders. Although the function of sleep is still not completely understood, sleep has a critical role for human health, and we have attempted to outline the role that the circadian timing system has in regulating human sleep and in contributing to sleep disorders.
Pacemakers are functional units capable of generating oscillations that synchronize downstream rhythms. In mammals, the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the hypothalamus is a circadian pacemaker composed of individual neurons that intrinsically express a near 24-hour rhythm in gene expression. Rhythmic gene expression is tightly coupled to a rhythm in spontaneous firing rate via intrinsic daily regulation of potassium current. Recent progress in the field indicates that SCN pacemaking is a specialized property that emerges from intrinsic features of single cells, structural connectivity among cells, and activity dynamics within the SCN. The focus of this chapter is on how Nature built a functional pacemaker from many individual oscillators that is capable of coordinating the daily timing of essential brain and physiological processes.
Modern electrophysiological studies in animals show that the spectrum of neural oscillations encoding relevant information is broader than previously thought and that many diverse areas are engaged for very simple tasks. However, EEG-based brain-computer interfaces (BCI) still employ as control modality relatively slow brain rhythms or features derived from preselected frequencies and scalp locations. Here, we describe the strategy and the algorithms we have developed for the analysis of electrophysiological data and demonstrate their capacity to lead to faster accurate decisions based on linear classifiers. To illustrate this strategy, we analyzed two typical BCI tasks. (1) Mu-rhythm control of a cursor movement by a paraplegic patient. For this data, we show that although the patient received extensive training in mu-rhythm control, valuable information about movement imagination is present on the untrained high-frequency rhythms. This is the first demonstration of the importance of high-frequency rhythms in imagined limb movements. (2) Self-paced finger tapping task in three healthy subjects including the data set used in the BCI-2003 competition. We show that by selecting electrodes and frequency ranges based on their discriminative power, the classification rates can be systematically improved with respect to results published thus far.
Modern video cards and game consoles typically have much better performance to price ratios than that of general purpose CPUs. The parallel processing capabilities of game hardware are well-suited for high throughput biomedical data analysis. Our initial results suggest that game hardware is a cost-effective platform for some computationally demanding bioinformatics problems.
Searching the Medline database is almost a daily necessity for many biomedical researchers. However, available Medline search solutions are mainly designed for the quick retrieval of a small set of most relevant documents. Because of this search model, they are not suitable for the large-scale exploration of literature and the underlying biomedical conceptual relationships, which are common tasks in the age of high throughput experimental data analysis and cross-discipline research. We try to develop a new Medline exploration approach by incorporating interactive visualization together with powerful grouping, summary, sorting and active external content retrieval functions. Our solution, PubViz, is based on the FLEX platform designed for interactive web applications and its prototype is publicly available at: http://brainarray.mbni.med.umich.edu/Brainarray/DataMining/PubViz.
TMS is a promising tool for the non-invasive stimulation of the cerebral cortex, with applications in Neurology and the Neurosciences. From cable theory, it is known that the activation function for neuronal stimulation in TMS may contain contributions from the electric field and the component of the electric field gradient along the direction of the nerve. Here we present a calculation of the spatial distribution of the induced electric field by TMS using a finite element model of the cerebral cortex and surrounding tissues. This distribution allows us to calculate the activation function for different experimental conditions, and is expected to provide new insight into the mechanisms of TMS in the cortex.
For a common user, bioimages seem to be very easy to treat, to read, to understand and, therefore, to archive. Conversely, bioimage archiving require a very complex design and implementation process that needs skilled and trained technicians. We proposed to a class of bioengineering students at the Politecnico University of Milan the implementation of a hand image repository specifically designed for highlighting the main features that should be taken into account when treating bioimage archives. Students were required to build the archive with software tools they had previously learned in other programming language courses and available at the university informatics class-rooms.
It has been envisioned that a body network can be built to collect data from, and transport information to, implanted miniature devices at multiple sites within the human body. Currently, two problems of utmost importance remain unsolved: 1) how to link information between a pair of implants at a distance? and 2) how to provide electric power to these implants allowing them to function and communicate? In this paper, we present new solutions to these problems by minimizing the intra-body communication distances. We show that, based on a study of human anatomy, the maximum distance from the body surface to the deepest point inside the body is approximately 15 cm. This finding provides an upper bound for the lengths of communication pathways required to reach the body's interior. We also show that these pathways do not have to cross any joins within the body. In order to implement the envisioned body network, we present the design of a new device, called an energy pad. This small-size, light-weight device can easily interface with the skin to perform data communication with, and supply power to, miniature implants.
In order to study the concurrent activity in subjects interacting in cooperation or competition activities, the issue of the simultaneous recording of their brain activity became mandatory. The simultaneous recording of neuroelectric activity of the brain is called &quot;EEG hyperscanning&quot;. We would like present results obtained by EEG hyperscannings performed on a group of subjects engaged in a card game. The EEG hyperscannings have been performed with the simultaneous use of high resolution EEG devices on groups of four subjects while they were playing a card game. We estimated the concurrent activity in multiple brains of the group and we depicted the causal connections between regions of different brains. Results obtained in a study of several groups recorded by the EEG hyperscanning reveal larger activity in prefrontal and anterior cingulated cortex in different frequency bands for the player that start the game when compared to other players. EEG hyperscannings will open a different area for the study of neuroscience, in which the activity of multiple brains during social cooperation could be investigated.
We introduce an anatomical and electrophysiological model of deep brain structures dedicated to magnetoencephalography (MEG) and electroencephalography (EEG) source imaging. So far, most imaging inverse models considered that MEG/EEG surface signals were predominantly produced by cortical, hence superficial, neural currents. Here we question whether crucial deep brain structures such as the basal ganglia and the hippocampus may also contribute to distant, scalp MEG and EEG measurements. We first design a realistic anatomical and electrophysiological model of these structures and subsequently run Monte-Carlo experiments to evaluate the respective sensitivity of the MEG and EEG to signals from deeper origins. Results indicate that MEG/EEG may indeed localize these deeper generators, which is confirmed here from experimental MEG data reporting on the modulation of alpha brain waves.
Brain Computer Interface (BCI) systems have gained great visibility in the last years as they represent a quite innovative way of communication and a new instrument aimed at exploring brain functions. A lot of research labs are developing their own BCI system, everyone being involved in some particular aspects of them. At the &quot;Tor Vergata&quot; University our purpose is to develop tools for the evaluation and the optimization of the performances of BCI systems and to delineate some criteria for the analysis and implementation of different BCI systems; also we have defined file formats for BCI data in order to allow the sharing of tools among groups and to create models for the generalization and therefore the unification of the resources. All the tools and routines mentioned are part of the Body Language Framework++ 2.0.
Arterial Spin Labeling (ASL) has opened a unique window into the human brain function and perfusion physiology. Altogether fast and of intrinsic high spatial resolution, ASL is a technique very appealing not only for the diagnosis of vascular diseases, but also in basic neuroscience for the follow-up of small perfusion changes occurring during brain activation. However, due to limited signal-to-noise ratio and complex flow kinetics, ASL is one of the more challenging disciplines within magnetic resonance imaging. In this paper, the theoretical background and main implementations of ASL are revisited. In particular, the different uses of ASL, the pitfalls and possibilities are described and illustrated using clinical cases.
In this paper, we apply qualitative tools and quantitative analysis for the EEG recordings of 23 adult patients. Specifically, independent component analysis (ICA) was applied to separate independent source components, followed by spectrum analysis. In terms of quantitative EEG analysis, we use several complexity measures to evaluate the differences between two groups of patients: the subjects in deep coma, and the subjects who were prejudged as brain death. For the first time, we report statistically significant differences of quantitative statistics in such a clinical study. The empirical results reported in this paper suggest some promising directions and valuable clues for clinical practice.
New strategies are considered for automated, single-subject differential diagnosis of independent degenerative brain disorders characterized by similar clinical symptoms using functional imaging. The methodology of these strategies is described and its application in parkinsonian movement disorders is illustrated for PET data. Using an automated diagnostic Topographic Profile Rating (TPR) technique based on the Scaled Subprofile Model (SSM-PCA), single-subject score values for different conditions are compared with reference values to predict diagnosis. The discriminatory parameters of reference score sets associated with significant SSM principal components referred to as group invariant subprofiles (GIS networks) are examined. It is shown that the extraction of exclusive sub-networks that stem from contrasting image features between conditions can be an effective tool for optimization that does not require expert knowledge.
Video transmission plays a critical role in robotic telesurgery because of the required high bandwidth and quality requirement. We propose an adaptive video preprocessing technique to accelerate the transmission of telesurgical video. Using this technique, the bandwidth can be reallocated adaptively from non-essential surrounding regions to the region of interest when preprocessed image sequences are passed to the video encoder, ensuring excellent image quality of critical regions (e.g. surgical landscape). The algorithm first generates a physiologically appropriate attention map which can be updated dynamically. Then, an adaptive edge-preserving image smoothing filter is utilized to remove insignificant features. The parameters of the filter are adjusted according to the attention map. Our experimental result shows that, with the preprocessing technique, over half of the bandwidth can be reduced while there is no significant visual effect at the site of remote observer.
The problem addressed in this paper is the automatic segmentation of stroke lesions on MR multi-sequences. Lesions enhance differently depending on the MR modality and there is an obvious gain in trying to account for various sources of information in a single procedure. To this aim, we propose a multimodal Markov random field model which includes all MR modalities simultaneously. The results of the multimodal method proposed are compared with those obtained with a mono-dimensional segmentation applied on each MRI sequence separately. We constructed an Atlas of blood supply territories to help clinicians in the determination of stroke subtypes and potential functional deficit.
This paper compares three methods for the detection of single unit action potentials in auditory nerve. The detector structures are similar consisting of a filtering procedure in the first stage and a decision rule in the second stage. The detection accuracy of each detector is characterized by the couple probability of a true detection vs. rates of false detection with synthetic data. The performance comparison between detectors shows that the detector using a band-pass finite-impulse-response filter with complex coefficients offers the best performance. This observation was especially evident for low signal to noise ratios. This finding is confirmed with real data and leads us to revise the protocol of spike detection in auditory nerve.
The objective of the present study was to build a dynamic model relating changes in neural responses in rat barrel cortex to an electrical whisker stimulation pulse train of varying frequencies. This work is part of a formal mathematical system currently being developed, which links stimulation to the Blood Oxygen Level Dependent (BOLD) functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) signal. Neural responses were measured in terms of local field potentials, which were then converted into current source density (CSD) data. Responses were found to be strongly suppressed immediately following the first stimulus pulse, before recovering to a steady state, which was maintained throughout the rest of the stimulation. The amplitude of this steady state decreases as the stimulation frequency increases. The model structure is based on the physiological pathway from the rat sensory organ to the cortex. Dynamic linear second order systems are used to model the excitatory as well as the suppressive components of the neural response. The interactions between components contain nonlinear modulations. The model was evaluated against CSD data from experiments with varying stimulation frequency (1-40 Hz), and shows a plausible fit. The model parameters obtained by optimization for different physiological conditions (anaesthetized or awake) were significantly different. Although this is a descriptive model, it may well have some physiological implications.
In the recent years Neuroscience research is exploiting technologies initially developed only for electronic engineering use: this is the case of Micro-Electrode Array (MEA) technology, where a finite number of channels acquires in vitro neural spiking activity. In this work we present a new method to process time data series from MEA trough an ad-hoc software-framework. Our aim is to build a classifier giving quantitative measures of similarity and statistical dependence among neurons activities recorded in different MEA channels. Methods applied to extract specific information about neuronal behavior are Mutual Information and Dynamic Time Warping. In order to extend the pair-wise information so obtained to the entire neuronal networks on MEA, we have chosen to implement a sub-optimal criterion thanks to Genetic Algorithms (GA): this technique support us to sort MEA channels based on dependent activity, thus providing a global index. We applied it to test the presence of self-synchronization among neurons, which can evolve in time and adapt their self in response to specific external stimuli, such as those of the chemical neuron-inhibitors here analyzed.
An increasing popularity of multichannel recordings from freely behaving animals and the need to develop a practical brain-machine interface has fuelled the development of miniature multichannel recording systems. Here we describe our prototype miniature 64-channel acquisition system that could be used for multichannel recordings in freely behaving monkeys or other large animals. The system's features include an high impedance input for neurophysiology electrodes, an integrated battery fed circuitry with a 64 low-noise multiplexed amplifiers array that permits the parallel recording of all channels, a 10-bit resolution ADC, an FPGA digital core for online processing and data transmission, a USB 2.0 link and a custom software for data visualization and whole system control.
Wireless sensors were designed which are small and light enough to be worn by small animals such as rats. These sensors are used to record three axes acceleration data from animals during natural behavior in a cage. The behavior of the animal is further extracted from the recorded acceleration data using neural network based pattern recognition algorithms. Successful recognition of eating, grooming and standing are demonstrated using this approach. Finally another potential application of this research is demonstrated in behavioral neuroscience by showing correlations between action potentials recorded from the motor cortex of a rat and acceleration data.
This paper describes the fabrication of Si micro probe and SiO(2) micro tube array and their mechanical properties. The device is successfully fabricated with high-density array. One of the requirements of the penetrating device is to have the enough mechanical strength to be able to penetrate into the tissue. Hence mechanical properties are investigated and discussed using the results on bending obtained by experiments and simulation of finite element method. The device was penetrated by simple in-vitro experiments using a gelatin.
This paper reports on a novel type of silicon-based microprobes with linear, two and three dimensional (3D) distribution of their recording sites. The microprobes comprise either single shafts, combs with multiple shafts or 3D arrays combining two combs with 9, 36 or 72 recording sites, respectively. The electrical interconnection of the probes is achieved through highly flexible polyimide ribbon cables attached using the MicroFlex Technology which allows a connection part of small lateral dimensions. For an improved handling, probes can be secured by a protecting canula. Low-impedance electrodes are achieved by the deposition of platinum black. First in vivo experiments proved the capability to record single action potentials in the motor cortex from electrodes close to the tip as well as body electrodes along the shaft.
Previous studies of dual-task performance have demonstrated that encoding and retrieval processes are differentially affected by the simultaneous performance of a secondary task. Whilst dual task demands during encoding have a detrimental effect on memory performance, dual task demands during retrieval have a detrimental effect on secondary task performance. However, dual task effects on memory during encoding appear unaffected by age, while effects at retrieval on secondary task performance are age sensitive. Most previous studies have focused on free recall or cued recall of word lists. In the current study, encoding and retrieval were examined in younger and older healthy adults performing a task typically thought to load verbal working memory, namely immediate serial ordered digit recall together with a response time (RT) task. In Experiment 1, the demands of a secondary RT task were varied as a function of response-to-stimulus interval, while in Experiment 2 the predictability of the stimulus location was manipulated. In both age groups, dual task during encoding, but not at retrieval, produced significant interference in memory performance and unlike most previous studies the impact at encoding was greater for the older group. In contrast, significantly slower RTs were demonstrated under dual task conditions during encoding and retrieval. Older adults produced significantly slower RTs than younger adults only for dual task at retrieval. Older people were more sensitive to time pressure in responding under dual task conditions, but neither group was sensitive to predictability of stimulus location. Results are consistent with the concept of a cognitive resource that supports dual task performance, and that is sensitive to the effects of age on memory encoding of items that rely heavily on the operation of verbal working memory resources. The age sensitivity to dual task only became apparent when effects at encoding and at retrieval were considered separately.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has shown that brain activation during performance of working memory (WM) tasks under high memory loads is altered in adults with severe traumatic brain injury (TBI) relative to uninjured subjects (Perlstein et al., 2004; Scheibel et al., 2003). Our study attempted to equate TBI patients and orthopedically injured (OI) subjects on performance of an N-Back task that used faces as stimuli. To minimize confusion in TBI patients that was revealed in pilot work, we presented the memory conditions in two separate tasks, 0- versus 1-back and 0- versus 2-back. In the 0- versus 1-back task, OI subjects activated bilateral frontal areas more extensively than TBI patients, and TBI patients activated posterior regions more extensively than OI subjects. In the 0- versus 2-back task, there were no significant differences between the groups. Analysis of changes in activation over time on 1-back disclosed that OI subjects had decreases in bilateral anterior and posterior regions, while TBI patients showed activation increases in those and other areas over time. In the 2-back condition, both groups showed decreases over time in fusiform and parahippocampal gyri, although the OI group also showed increases over time in frontal, parietal, and temporal areas not seen in the TBI patients. The greatest group differences were found in the 1-back condition, which places low demand on WM. Although the extent of activation in the 2-back condition did not differ between the two groups, deactivation in the 2-back condition was seen in the OI patients only, and both groups' patterns of activation over time varied, suggesting a dissociation between the TBI and OI patients in recruitment of neural areas mediating WM.
Primate prefrontal delay neurons are involved in retaining task-relevant cognitive information in working memory (WM). Recent studies have also revealed primate prefrontal delay neurons that are related to reward/omission-of-reward expectancy. Such reward-related delay activities might constitute &quot;affective WM&quot; (Davidson, 2002). &quot;Affective&quot; and &quot;cognitive&quot; WM are both concerned with representing not what is currently being presented, but rather what was presented previously or might be presented in the future. However, according to the original and widely accepted definition, WM is the &quot;temporary storage and manipulation of information for complex cognitive tasks&quot;. Reward/omission-of-reward expectancy-related neuronal activity is neither prerequisite nor essential for accurate task performance; thus, such activity is not considered to comprise the neural substrates of WM. Also, &quot;affective WM&quot; might not be an appropriate usage of the term &quot;WM&quot;. We propose that WM- and reward/omission-of-reward expectancy-related neuronal activity are concerned with representing which response should be performed in order to attain a goal (reward) and the goal of the response, respectively. We further suggest that the prefrontal cortex (PFC) plays a crucial role in the integration of cognitive (for example, WM-related) and motivational (for example, reward expectancy-related) operations for goal-directed behaviour. The PFC could then send this integrated information to other brain areas to control the behaviour.


Imaging has become a cornerstone of stroke management, translating pathophysiological knowledge to everyday decision-making. Plain computed tomography is widely available and remains the standard for initial assessment: the technique rules out haemorrhage, visualizes the occluding thrombus and identifies early tissue hypodensity and swelling, which have different implications for thrombolysis. Based on evidence from positron emission tomography (PET), however, multimodal imaging is increasingly advocated. Computed tomography perfusion and angiography provide information on the occlusion site, on recanalization and on the extent of salvageable tissue. Magnetic resonance-based diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) has exquisite sensitivity for acute ischaemia, however, and there is increasingly robust evidence that DWI combined with perfusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (PWI) and angiography improves functional outcome by selecting appropriate patients for thrombolysis (small DWI lesion but large PWI defect) and by ruling out those who would receive no benefit or might be harmed (very large DWI lesion, no PWI defect), especially beyond the 3-hour time window. Combined DWI-PWI also helps predict malignant oedema formation and therefore helps guide selection for early brain decompression. Finally, DWI-PWI is increasingly used for patient selection in therapeutic trials. Although further methodological developments are awaited, implementing the individual pathophysiologic diagnosis based on multimodal imaging is already refining indications for thrombolysis and offers new opportunities for management of acute stroke patients.
In this issue of Critical Care, Megarbane and colleagues present a case report of methadone-induced respiratory depression and conduct a toxicokinetic/toxicodynamic evaluation. An opioid-dependent patient receiving methadone maintenance treatment (daily dose 70 mg) was found unconscious after ingesting 240 mg methadone and 2 mg flunitrazepam. Significant improvement in consciousness was achieved after an intravenous bolus of 0.3 mg naloxone followed by a continuous infusion of naloxone at 0.3 mg/hour. In patients receiving methadone maintenance treatment, an occasional intake of two to four times the usual daily dose of methadone is not an exceptional occurrence. However, few such patients experience episodes of life-threatening respiratory depression. Here, we discuss whether recent pharmacogenetic data could help us to understand interindividual variability in sensitivity to respiratory depression and, ultimately, to predict which patients are most likely to be affected.

Fast synaptic inhibition in the brain and spinal cord is mediated largely by ionotropic gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptors. GABAA receptors play a key role in controlling neuronal activity; thus modulating their function will have important consequences for neuronal excitation. GABAA receptors are important therapeutic targets for a range of sedative, anxiolytic, and hypnotic agents and are involved in a number of CNS diseases, including sleep disturbances, anxiety, premenstrual syndrome, alcoholism, muscle spasms, Alzheimer's disease, chronic pain, schizophrenia, bipolar affective disorders, and epilepsy. This review focuses on the functional and pharmacological properties of GABAA receptors and trafficking as an essential mechanism underlying the dynamic regulation of synaptic strength.
Neurophysiological monitoring using spontaneous and evoked bioelectrical brain activities provides functional assessment of the central nervous system. This sixth part of the review article summarizes results from electroencephalographic and evoked potential monitoring in connection with acupuncture. The article reflects the impact of new techniques on acupuncture research (e.g., 600 Hz oscillations). Although numerous questions concerning acupuncture remain still unsolved, the present findings could be a further step to discover the complex mechanisms underlying the effects of acupuncture.
This article attempts to show why classical conceptual views of the brain that can be found in any neuroscience textbook are not capable of providing an adequate explanation of brain-initiated normal and pathological behaviors and why the classical view should therefore be replaced with a new concept of the brain. The major reason for the inadequacy of the classical model is its explanation of the relationship between structure and function in the brain. This article introduces a new brain concept based on two discoveries: the discovery of the neural network computational principle and the discovery of the generic functional organization of hierarchical neural optimal control systems. A neural optimal control system is a learning system that possesses a model of the behavior of its controlled object. A hierarchy of neural optimal control systems is functionally organized in such a way that a higher level neural optimal control system treats a lower one as its controlled object and creates a model of its behavior. The ability of the new conceptual brain model to explain brain mechanisms of normal and pathological behaviors is demonstrated through the examples of spinal reflexes and central pattern generators, the cerebellum, skeletomotor cortico-basal ganglia-thalamocortical loop, and Parkinson's disease and some other brain disorders. In this article, a new understanding of the relationship between structure and function in the brain is introduced. This article also discusses organizational and educational changes in the neurosciences that may be necessary to accelerate a broad acceptance of this new concept of the brain.
Delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) is the primary psycho-active ingredient in Cannabis spp., the most widely used illicit drug in the United States. THC is an exogenous agonist of the central cannabinoid receptor (CB1), one of the most abundant G-coupled receptors in the mammalian brain. Although CB1 receptors are distributed throughout the brain, they are found at very high levels in the cerebellum. Despite the variety of disturbances associated with acute cannabis intoxication, including altered short-term memory, dissociation of thoughts, motor impairments, and paranoia, among others, a reliable index of cannabinoid system function has in large part eluded scientists. Thus, there is a demand in contemporary clinical neuroscience for methods sensitive to cannabinoid system function, not only for assessing how cannabis use influences human information processing, but also to assess the involvement of the endocannabinoid system (ECS) in clinical disease and evaluate the effects of CB1-based drug therapies. The purpose of the present article, therefore, is to address this current need by integrating two separate literatures. The first literature demonstrates that the ECS mediates synaptic plasticity, specifically, long-term depression (LTD) of parallel fibers at the parallel fiber-Purkinje junction in the cerebellar cortex. The second literature suggests that LTD at this junction is necessary for the acquisition of the primary dependent variable in delay eyeblink conditioning (EBC)--the exhibition of temporally measured conditioned responses. These two literatures are integrated by proposing an updated EBC circuit that incorporates the CB1 receptor and the endogenous cannabinoids. Finally, the implications of the model is discussed in consideration of recent evidence from CB1 knockout mice, human cannabis users, and schizophrenia patients, with the expectation that translational research on the cannabinoid system will be advanced.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most prevalent form of dementia, and its effective disease modifying therapies are desperately needed. Promotion of non-amyloidogenic alpha-secretase cleavage of amyloid precursor protein (APP) to release soluble sAPPalpha, based on the most widely accepted &quot;amyloid model&quot; as a plausible mechanism for AD treatment, is the focus of this review. Modulation of alpha-secretase or &quot;a disintegrin and metalloprotease (ADAM)&quot;s activity via protein kinase C (PKC), calcium ion (Ca(2+)), tyrosine kinase (TK), MAP kinase (MAPK), and hormonal signaling, which regulate catabolic processing of APP, are discussed. The inhibition of amyloidogenic processing of APP by the beta- and gamma-secretase has been considered till now a promising strategy to treat AD. But beta- and gamma-secretase inhibitors, along with the available therapeutic tools for AD, have side effects. These challenges can be circumvented to certain extent; but activation of sAPPalpha release appears to be a potential alternative strategy to reduce cerebral amyloidosis. Drug screens have been performed to identify therapeutics for AD, but an effective screening strategy to isolate activators of alpha-secretase has been rarely reported. Novel reporter-based screens targeted toward APP mRNA 5' untranslated region (UTR), followed by counter-screens to detect alpha-secretase stimulators, could be important in detecting compounds to promote sAPPalpha release and reduce amyloid beta (Abeta) buildup. The primary inflammatory cytokine interleukin-1, which stimulates APP 5'UTR-directed translation of cell-associated APP, enhances processing to sAPPalpha in astrocytes and co-activates ADAM-10/ADAM-17 through MAPK signaling; thus illustrating a novel pathway that could serve as therapeutic model for AD.
Changes of extracellular pH values can have profound effects on neuronal function. For example, the low pH (also called acidosis) generated in brain ischemia causes acute neuronal injury. For years the receptors that detect pH variations surrounding neurons and their physiological/pathological importance remain uncertain. The recent finding that acidosis activates a distinct family of membrane ion channels, the acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs) in both peripheral and central neurons has dramatically changed the view of acidosis-associated signaling and provided a new strategy for therapeutic inventions. Although proton is the only known agonist for the activation of ASICs, a variety of extracellular and intracellular signaling molecules can modulate the activities of ASICs and have profound influence on the functions of these channels in both physiological and pathological processes. The goal of this article is therefore to provide a comprehensive review of the modulators of ASICs that adapt ASIC activity to changes of extracellular and intracellular environments.
This review gives a brief overview of the expression patterns, molecular pharmacology and physiological role of the cannabinoid 2 receptor (CB2) in pain. Particular emphasis is given to the therapeutic utility of CB2 receptor agonists. Through studies utilizing selective CB2 receptor agonists, non-selective cannabinoid agonists in conjunction with selective CB1 and CB2 receptor antagonists, or CB2 receptor knockout mice, it is now clear that this receptor plays a critical role in nociception. To this end, CB2 receptors have been shown to modulate acute pain, chronic inflammatory pain, post-surgical pain, cancer pain and pain associated with nerve injury. Here we review these studies and the compounds that were utilized. We hypothesize the mechanism of action by which the CB2 receptor could be involved in these processes. Finally we summarize the most recent novel chemical scaffolds that are being investigated towards advancing selective CB2 receptor agonists into the clinic. Many new pharmacological agents have been identified by high throughput screening and small molecule lead discovery and optimization in the past 10 years. It is anticipated that at least some of these agents may ultimately constitute effective new pain therapeutics that lack the side effects associated with traditional cannabinoid ligands.
Violence and aggression are major causes of death and injury, thus constituting primary public health problems throughout much of the world costing billions of dollars to society. The present review relates our understanding of the neurobiology of aggression and rage to pharmacological treatment strategies that have been utilized and those which may be applied in the future. Knowledge of the neural mechanisms governing aggression and rage is derived from studies in cat and rodents. The primary brain structures involved in the expression of rage behavior include the hypothalamus and midbrain periaqueductal gray. Limbic structures, which include amygdala, hippocampal formation, septal area, prefrontal cortex and anterior cingulate gyrus serve important modulating functions. Excitatory neurotransmitters that potentiate rage behavior include excitatory amino acids, substance P, catecholamines, cholecystokinin, vasopressin, and serotonin that act through 5-HT(2) receptors. Inhibitory neurotransmitters include GABA, enkephalins, and serotonin that act through 5-HT(1) receptors. Recent studies have demonstrated that brain cytokines, including IL-1beta and IL-2, powerfully modulate rage behavior. IL-1-beta exerts its actions by acting through 5-HT(2) receptors, while IL-2 acts through GABAA or NK(1) receptors. Pharmacological treatment strategies utilized for control of violent behavior have met with varying degrees of success. The most common approach has been to apply serotonergic compounds. Others included the application of antipsychotic, GABAergic (anti-epileptic) and dopaminergic drugs. Present and futures studies on the neurobiology of aggression may provide the basis for new and novel treatment strategies for the control of aggression and violence as well as the continuation of existing pharmacological approaches.




Recent work indicates that the expression of Eph and ephrin proteins is upregulated after injury in the central nervous system (CNS). Although to date, much of the interest in these protein families in the nervous system has been on their roles during development, their presence in the adult CNS at multiple time points after injury suggest that they play significant roles in key aspects of the nervous system's response to damage. Several fundamental features of Eph and ephrin biology, such as bidirectional signaling, promiscuity of ligand-receptor binding, and potential cis regulation of function, present challenges for the formulation of rational and effective Eph/ephrin based strategies for CNS axon regeneration. However, recent work that have identified specific functions for individual Ephs and ephrins in injury-induced phenomena such as axon sprouting, cellular remodeling, and scar formation has begun to tease apart their contributions and may provide a number of potential entry points for beneficial therapeutic intervention.
Functional recovery following acute CNS injury in humans, such as spinal cord injury and stroke, is exceptionally limited, leaving the affected individual with life-long neurological deficits such as loss of limb movement and sensation leading to a compromised quality of life. As yet, there is no effective treatment on the market for such injuries. This lack of functional recovery can at least in part be attributed to the restriction of axonal regeneration and neuroplasticity by several CNS myelin proteins that have been shown to be potent inhibitors of neurite outgrowth in vitro, namely myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG), Nogo-A and oligodendrocyte myelin glycoprotein (OMgp). Nogo-A contains multiple neurite outgrowth inhibitory domains exposed on the surface of myelinating oligodendrocytes located within its amino-terminal region (amino-Nogo-A) and C-terminal region (Nogo-66). Although structurally dissimilar; Nogo-66, MAG and OMgp exert their inhibitory effects by binding the GPI-linked neuronal Nogo-66 receptor (NgR) that transduces the inhibitory signal to the cell interior via transmembrane co-receptors LINGO-1 and p75(NTR)or TROY. Although the receptor(s) for amino-Nogo-A are unknown, amino-Nogo-A and NgR ligands mutually activate the small GTPase RhoA. Consistent with their neurite outgrowth inhibitory function, approaches counter-acting Nogo-A using function-blocking antibodies, NgR using peptide antagonists and receptor bodies or RhoA using deactivating enzymes have been shown to significantly enhance axonal regeneration and neuroplasticity leading to improved functional recovery in animal models of acute CNS injury. These in vivo findings thus provide a sound basis for the development of an effective treatment for acute CNS injuries in humans.
This review is focused on mathematical modeling of behaviors of a whole organism with special emphasis on models with a clearly scientific approach to the problem that helps to understand the mechanisms underlying behavior. The aim is to provide an overview of old and contemporary mathematical models without complex mathematical details. Only deterministic and stochastic, but not statistical models are reviewed. All mathematical models of behavior can be divided into two main classes. First, models that are based on the principle of teleological determinism assume that subjects choose the behavior that will lead them to a better payoff in the future. Examples are game theories and operant behavior models both of which are based on the matching law. The second class of models are based on the principle of causal determinism, which assume that subjects do not choose from a set of possibilities but rather are compelled to perform a predetermined behavior in response to specific stimuli. Examples are perception and discrimination models, drug effects models and individual-based population models. A brief overview of the utility of each mathematical model is provided for each section.
Vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) mediates important events during the development of the nervous system. VIP can stimulate neuronogenesis as well as differentiation and neurite outgrowth; it can promote the survival of neurons and assist in neuronal repair; it is also anti-inflammatory and can modulate immune responses. In addition, VIP is necessary for the normal growth and development of the early postimplantation mouse embryo during the period when the major embryonic events are neural tube formation, neuronogenesis and expansion of the vascular system. Receptors for VIP appear during early postimplantation embryogenesis in the rodent and exhibit changing localization patterns throughout the development of the brain. During embryogenesis, unregulated VIP may have major and permanent consequences on the formation of the brain and may be a participating factor in disorders of neurodevelopment. VIP has been linked to autism, Down syndrome and fetal alcohol syndrome. This paper will review the role of VIP in neurodevelopment, its known involvement in neurodevelopmental disorders and propose ways in which VIP might be of therapeutic value.
The association between psychological stress and skin diseases is well known from clinical practice and the literature. Stress - a complex adaptive response - acts on different levels of the nervous system and affects many organ systems. We review here the available knowledge regarding the possible mechanisms underlying stress actions in the pathogenesis and course of skin diseases.
Oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) is the only mammalian biochemical pathway dependent on the coordinated assembly of protein subunits encoded by both nuclear and mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) genes. Cytoplasmic hybrid cells, cybrids, are created by introducing mtDNAs of interest into cells depleted of endogenous mtDNAs, and have been a central tool in unraveling effects of disease-linked mtDNA mutations. In this way, the nuclear genetic complement is held constant so that observed effects on OXPHOS can be linked to the introduced mtDNA. Cybrid studies have confirmed such linkage for many defined, disease-associated mutations. In general, a threshold principle is evident where OXPHOS defects are expressed when the proportion of mutant mtDNA in a heteroplasmic cell is high. Cybrids have also been used where mtDNA mutations are not known, but are suspected, and have produced some support for mtDNA involvement in more common neurodegenerative diseases. Mouse modeling of mtDNA transmission and disease has recently taken advantage of cybrid approaches. By using cultured cells as intermediate carriers of mtDNAs, ES cell cybrids have been produced in several laboratories by pretreatment of the cells with rhodamine 6G before cytoplast fusion. Both homoplasmic and heteroplasmic mice have been produced, allowing modeling of mtDNA transmission through the mouse germ line. We also briefly review and compare other transgenic approaches to modeling mtDNA dynamics, including mitochondrial injection into oocytes or zygotes, and embryonic karyoplast transfer. When breakthrough technology for mtDNA transformation arrives, cybrids will remain valuable for allowing exchange of engineered mtDNAs between cells.
In the central nervous system (CNS) and in the periphery, specific proteins (transporters) are responsible for the regulation of the synaptic concentrations of the major monoamine neurotransmitters, noradrenaline (NE), serotonin (5-HT) and dopamine (DA). Several reports have shown that the expression of these transporters within the CNS may be altered in patients with certain neurodegenerative or neuropsychiatric disorders. Therefore, in the CNS the monoamine transporters are major targets for existing and developmental drugs. The best known drugs targeting these transporters are the selective 5-HT reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) (e.g. citalopram, Celexa) that are most frequently used in the treatment of clinical depression. Selective NE reuptake inhibitors (NRIs) have also found use for the treatment of depression and other conditions such as attention deficit hyperactivity (ADHD) disorder. Given that the NE transporter (NET) is also a binding site for cocaine and drugs of abuse, there is a great need for a probe to assess the densities of NET in vivo by brain imaging with either positron emission tomography (PET) or single photon emission tomography (SPET). PET in particular has the potential to measure NET densities quantitatively and with high resolution in the human brain in vivo. The quality of a PET image depends crucially on the radioligand used in the emission measurement. Commonly used radionuclides in PET radioligands are carbon 11 (t(1/2) = 20.4 min) and fluorine-18 (t(1/2) = 109.8 min). This review specifically summarizes the present status of the development of (11)C- or (18)F-labeled ligands as tools for imaging NET in brain with PET in support of neuropsychiatric clinical research and drug development.
Growing evidence suggests that neuropeptide Y (NPY) plays an important role in the immune system. NPY is produced by the central and peripheral nervous system but also by immune cells in response to activation. NPY has pleiotropic effects on both the innate and adaptive arms of the immune system, with effects ranging from the modulation of cell migration to macrophage, T helper (Th) cell cytokine release, and antibody production. Subsequent studies have confirmed the importance of this system in immunity in particular via the demonstration that Y1, a receptor for NPY, plays a fundamental role in autoimmunity and inflammation using Y1-deficient animals. Furthermore, clinical studies have suggested a role for NPY in other immune disorders such as asthma and arthritis. This review provides the latest information on the role of NPY and Y1 in the immune system, and discusses the potential new opportunities of this work for the development of a new generation of immuno-modulatory treatments of autoimmune and inflammatory diseases.
A minute-to-minute crosstalk between the hypothalamic neuropeptide Y (NPY) network and the hormone leptin is essential for energy homeostasis. Leptin insufficiency i.e. lack of leptin restraint due to genetic and environmental factors on the hypothalamic NPY system confers obesity, a cluster of metabolic afflictions and shorter lifespan. A state-of-the-art gene transfer technology using recombinant adeno-associated viral vector to overcome hypothalamic leptin insufficiency was employed in rodent models of obesity, metabolic syndrome and shorter lifespan. Our findings show that life-long tonic repression of NPY system with a stable increase in leptin availability in the hypothalamus prevented the age-related and high fat-diet-induced obesity, hyperinsulinemia and diabetes and extended lifespan. Additional health benefits include increased energy expenditure and normalization of neuroendocrine control on reproduction, and promotion of brain and bone growth. We propose that central leptin gene therapy or novel long-acting leptin mimetics should be tested clinically to decelerate the worldwide epidemic of obesity, diabetes and shortened lifespan.
The transcription of antioxidant response element (ARE)-containing cytoprotective genes has been proposed as a means to combat oxidative stress-related disorders, such as cancer and Parkinson's disease. Transactivation of the ARE requires the transcription factor nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2). Cellular levels of Nrf2 protein are regulated by the Kelch-like ECH-associated protein 1 (Keap1), a substrate adaptor protein for the ubiquitin ligase machinery and subsequent proteasomal degradation. Recently, detailed studies have elucidated the structure and interactions of the Keap1-containing ubiquitin ligase complex. Here, we propose that small molecule modulation of Keap1 protein:protein interactions may permit Nrf2's nuclear accumulation and the transcription of ARE-dependent genes to enhance cellular resistance to oxidative insult.
Alzheimer's disease is a devastating degenerative disorder for which there is no cure or effective treatment. Although the etiology of Alzheimer's disease is not fully understood, compelling evidence indicates that deposition of aggregates composed by a misfolded form of the amyloid beta peptide (Abeta) is the central event in the disease pathogenesis. Therefore, an attractive therapeutic strategy is to prevent or reverse Abeta misfolding and aggregation. Diverse strategies have been described to identify inhibitors of this process, including screening of libraries of small molecules chemical compounds, rational design of synthetic peptides, assessment of natural Abeta-binding proteins and stimulation of the immune system by vaccination. In this article we describe these different approaches, their principles and their potential strengths and weaknesses. Overall the available data suggest that the development of drugs to interfere with Abeta misfolding and aggregation is a feasible target that hold great promise for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.
Using PICK1 as an example this review highlights PDZ domains support a repertoire of protein-protein interactions that regulate the subcellular localisation and function of receptors, ion channels and enzymes. PICK1 is a 416 amino acid protein that contains a PDZ domain, a coiled-coil motif/arfaptin homology domain and an acidic c-terminal. Nearly all proteins thus far reported to interact with PICK1 do so via its single PDZ domain. PICK1 self-associates via its coiled-coil motif and together with its PDZ domain has potential to act as a scaffolding protein. This molecule was first identified as a protein interacting with Calpha-kinase (PICK1) and interacts with several members of the glutamate receptor family and receptor tyrosine kinases. The PDZ domain of PICK1 has since been shown to interact with a plethora of proteins including dopamine transporter, prolactin-releasing peptide receptor, ion channels BNaC1/ASIC and many more. The single PDZ domain of PICK1 interacts with a network of proteins that is pivotal in processes such as synaptic plasticity, development and neural guidance as well as many diseased states. The proteins that interact with PICK1 and the functional roles of its PDZ domain are discussed and illustrated are ways to regulate PDZ protein-protein interactions.
Type I interferons (IFN-I) orchestrate numerous biological and cellular processes and are essential elements during host antiviral defense. After recognition of highly conserved virus signatures, a complex network of signaling events is rapidly initiated and leads to IFN-I synthesis. These cytokines directly induce a strong antiviral state and exert several immune-regulatory actions aimed at preventing virus spread. On the other hand, viruses evolved to evade or subvert the IFN-I system for their own benefit. In the present article, we review selective aspects of IFN-I induction and functions during several viral infections and discuss the beneficial and detrimental roles of IFN-I illustrated during lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) infection in its natural host, the mouse.
CDld-restricted invariant natural killer T (NKT) cells emerge as unique lymphocyte subsets implicated in the regulation of autoimmunity. Abnormalities in the numbers and functions of NKT cells have been observed in patients with diverse autoimmune diseases as well as in animal models of autoimmune diseases. NKT cells recognize glycolipid antigens presented by the nonpolymorphic MHC class I-like protein CD1d and participate in various kinds of immunoregulation due to a potent ability to produce a variety of cytokines. In this review, we examine the potential roles of NKT cells in the regulation and pathogenesis of autoimmune disease and the recent advances in glycolipid therapy for autoimmune disease models.







Alzheimer's disease (AD) is generally understood as primarily affecting cognition while sparing motor function, at least until the later stages of the disease. Studies reported over the past 10 years, however, have documented a prevalence of falls in AD patients significantly higher than in age-matched normal elders; also persons with AD have been observed to have different walking patterns with characteristics that increase gait instability. Recent work in cognitive neuroscience has begun to demonstrate the necessity of intact cognition, particularly executive function, for competent motor control. We put the pieces of this puzzle together and review the current state of knowledge about gait and cognition in general along with an exploration of the association between dementia, gait impairment and falls in AD. We also briefly examine the current treatment of gait instability in AD, mainly exercise, and propose a new approach targeting cognition.




The age distribution of the epsilon4 allelic form of the apolipoprotein E gene (APOE) was investigated in 630 patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) with onset age ranging from 35 to 90 years. Overall, mean age at onset in APOE epsilon4 allele bearers was significantly later than that in nonbearers. However, when stratified into early onset AD (EOAD) and late onset (LOAD) groups, mean age at onset in EOAD cases bearing APOE epsilon4 allele was later than that in those EOAD cases without epsilon4 allele, whereas in LOAD mean age at onset in cases bearing APOE epsilon4 allele was earlier than in those without epsilon4 allele. When analysed by decade, it was observed that 37% of the total number of APOE epsilon4 allele bearers, and 43% of total number of cases with APOE epsilon4/epsilon4 genotype fell into the 60-69 years age class. Hence, APOE epsilon4 allele frequency, at 0.44, was highest in the 60-69 years age class, progressively decreasing either side of this age group. APOE epsilon4 allele therefore has its maximum impact between onset ages of between 60 and 70 years.

Previous studies have found that social phobia (social anxiety disorder) is associated with elevated levels of perfectionism, particularly concerns over making mistakes (CM) and doubts about actions (DA). This study investigated the extent to which various dimensions of perfectionism change as a result of participating in a 12-session cognitive-behavioral group treatment for social phobia. One hundred seven individuals completed the Frost Multidimensional Perfectionism Scale before and after treatment. Participants improved on several measures of social anxiety, generalized anxiety, and depression. With respect to perfectionism, significant reductions were seen on total perfectionism scores and scores on particular dimensions (CM, DA, organization), but not on other dimensions (personal standards, parental expectations, parental criticism). Furthermore, changes in DA and to some extent CM predicted posttreatment levels of social anxiety after controlling for pretreatment levels of social anxiety and changes in anxiety and depression. Implications of these findings are discussed.
Dysregulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis may play a role in panic disorder. HPA studies in patients with panic disorder, however, have produced inconsistent results. Seeking to understand the inconsistencies, we reexamined endocrine data from four studies of patients with panic disorder, in light of animal data highlighting the salience of novelty, control, and social support to HPA axis activity. Patients with panic disorder were studied (1) at rest over a full circadian cycle, (2) before and after activation by a panicogenic respiratory stimulant (doxapram) that does not directly stimulate the HPA axis, and (3) before and after a cholecystokinin B (CCK-B) agonist that is panicogenic and does directly stimulate the HPA axis. Patients with panic disorder had elevated overnight cortisol levels, which correlated with sleep disruption. ACTH and cortisol levels were higher in a challenge paradigm (doxapram) than in a resting state study, and paradigm-related ACTH secretion was exaggerated in patients with panic disorder. Panic itself could be elicited without HPA axis activation. Patients with panic disorder showed an exaggerated ACTH response to pentagastrin stimulation, but this response was normalized by prior exposure to the experimental context or psychological preparation to reduce novelty and enhance sense of control. Novelty is one of a number of contextual cues known from animal work to activate the HPA axis. The HPA axis abnormalities seen in patients with panic disorder in the four experiments reviewed here might all be due to exaggerated HPA axis reactivity to novelty cues. Most of the published panic/HPA literature is consistent with the hypothesis that HPA axis dysregulation in panic is due to hypersensitivity to contextual cues. This hypothesis requires experimental testing.

Control over cell cycle exit is fundamental to the normal generation of the wide array of distinct cell types that comprise the mature vertebrate CNS. Here, we demonstrate a critical role for Cip/Kip class cyclin-kinase inhibitory (CKI) proteins in regulating this process during neurogenesis in the embryonic spinal cord. Using immunohistochemistry, we show that all three identified Cip/Kip CKI proteins are expressed in both distinct and overlapping populations of nascent and post-mitotic neurons during early neurogenesis, with p27(Kip1) having the broadest expression, and both p57(Kip2) and p21(Cip1) showing transient expression in restricted populations. Loss- and gain-of-function approaches were used to establish the unique and redundant functions of these proteins in spinal cord neurogenesis. Using genetic lineage tracing, we provide evidence that, in the absence of p57, nascent neurons re-enter the cell cycle inappropriately but later exit to begin differentiation. Analysis of p57(Kip2);p27(Kip1) double mutants, where p21 expression is confined to only a small population of interneurons, demonstrates that Cip/Kip CKI-independent factors initiate progenitor cell cycle exit for the majority of interneurons generated in the developing spinal cord. Our studies indicate that p57 plays a critical cell-autonomous role in timing cell cycle exit at G1/S by opposing the activity of Cyclin D1, which promotes cell cycle progression. These studies support a multi-step model for neuronal progenitor cell cycle withdrawal that involves p57(Kip2) in a central role opposing latent Cyclin D1 and other residual cell cycle promoting activities in progenitors targeted for differentiation.
An intact enteric nervous system is required for normal gastrointestinal tract function. Several human conditions result from decreased innervation by enteric neurons; however, the genetic basis of enteric nervous system development and function is incompletely understood. In an effort to increase our understanding of the mechanisms underlying enteric nervous system development, we screened mutagenized zebrafish for changes in the number or distribution of enteric neurons. We also established a motility assay and rescreened mutants to learn whether enteric neuron number is correlated with gastrointestinal motility in zebrafish. We describe mutations isolated in our screen that affect enteric neurons specifically, as well as mutations that affect other neural crest derivatives or have pleiotropic effects. We show a correlation between the severity of enteric neuron loss and gastrointestinal motility defects. This screen provides biological tools that serve as the basis for future mechanistic studies.
The basic helix-loop-helix DNA binding protein Hand2 is expressed in neural crest-derived precursors of enteric neurons and has been shown to affect both neurogenesis and neurotransmitter specification of noradrenergic sympathetic ganglion neurons. In the current study, our goal was to determine whether Hand2 affects neurogenesis and/or expression of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and choline acetyltransferase in developing enteric neurons. Gain-of-function of Hand2 in HNK-1(+) immmunoselected precursor cells resulted in increased neurogenesis. The number of neurons expressing vasoactive intestinal polypeptide increased in response to Hand2 overexpression although choline acetyltransferase was not affected. Targeted deletion of Hand2 in neural crest cells resulted in loss of all neurons expressing vasoactive intestinal polypeptide along the length of the gastrointestinal tract, patterning defects in the myenteric plexus of the stomach, and altered number and morphology of neurons expressing TH. Our data demonstrate that expression of Hand2 is sufficient and necessary for neurogenesis and expression of a subset of cell type-specific markers in the developing enteric nervous system.
Neural crest-derived cells colonize the entire gastrointestinal tract. The migration of these enteric neural crest-derived cells (ENCCs) occurs by their formation of cellular strands that extend into the intestinal mesenchyme. We have studied the behavior of crest cells that underlies the formation and extension of these strands by time-lapse microscopy. ENCCs expressing fluorescent marker molecules were visualized in situ in the embryonic mouse and chick gut. The major contributor to strand extension is from cells located within a region approximately 300 microm behind (rostral to) the most caudal cells in the migratory wavefront. Cells in the region immediately behind the leading cell of the strand either move intermittently in parallel with the leading cell, or advance caudally toward the wavefront over other ENCCs. Another addition to the strands arises from isolated cells located caudal to the wavefront. These cells showed a range of behavior including attachment and separation from the strands. The extending strands converged to form nodes, and then diverged along independent paths to form new strands, a behavior suggestive of attraction and repulsion. This behavior is probably responsible for the unique reticulated arrangement of ganglia in the enteric nervous system. As cells become positioned farther behind the wavefront, they exhibit more restricted movement and varied trajectories. We conclude that ENCCs exhibit different behaviors, depending on their position with respect to the wavefront. These different behaviors suggest a critical role for cell-cell interaction in the migratory process.
Locomotion mediated by skeletal muscle provides a basis for the behavioral repertoire of most animals. Embryological and genetic studies of mouse, bird, fish and frog embryos are providing insights into the functions of the myogenic regulatory factors (MRFs) and the signaling molecules that regulate activity of MRFs. Nevertheless, our understanding of muscle development remains somewhat limited. Fundamental goals are to elucidate how mesodermal cells are induced during gastrulation to form muscle precursor cells and how muscle precursor cells acquire specific cell fates, such as slow and fast muscle cells. In this review, we focus on studies of zebrafish muscle development that have advanced our understanding of the molecular genetics of muscle cell induction and specification.
The aim of this pilot study was to investigate feasibility, tolerability, and effect of modified constraint-induced movement therapy (mCIT) in children with hemiparesis after arterial ischaemic stroke (AIS). Children with chronic hemiparesis and impaired hand function after AIS had mCIT for 2 hours a day, 5 days a week for 4 weeks. Pre- and post-therapy assessments included indices of sensorimotor function, quality of upper limb movement, functional therapy goals, and child and parent interviews. Of eight participants initially recruited, six (one male, five females) completed mCIT (median age 12y 3mo; range 6y 10mo-15y 2mo). Hemiparesis was predominantly spastic in three participants and dystonic in the others; all had severely impaired hand function. After mCIT there were no significant improvements in sensorimotor function or quality of upper limb movement. However, all children improved in individual therapy goals related to functional performance. Children and parents were positive about mCIT. The use of mCIT is a promising intervention for children with chronic acquired hemiparesis. In this severely impaired group functional improvements were seen after therapy despite unchanged sensorimotor measures.
Myotonic dystrophy (DM) is a neuromuscular disorder caused by an expansion of a CTG repeat sequence on chromosome 19q13. The aim of the present study was to describe the characteristics and prevalence of oral motor dysfunction in a cohort of children and adolescents with DM and to correlate different aspects of oral motor function with the type of DM and sex. Fifty-six individuals with DM (30 males, 26 females; median age 13y 2mo; range 2y 6mo-21y 5mo) were compared with healthy controls. They were divided into four subgroups: severe congenital DM (n=18); mild congenital DM (n=18); childhood DM (n=18); and classical DM (n=2). A speech-language pathologist assessed different variables of oral motor function, intelligibility, and lip force. The families used a questionnaire to report on eating difficulties and drooling. All individuals with DM had impaired facial expression. Intelligibility was moderately or severely reduced in 30 patients (60%), excluding six patients without speech. Most had a moderate or severe impairment of lip motility (76.0%), tongue motility (52.2%), and lip force (69.2%), causing deviant production of bilabial and dental consonants. The families reported problems with eating (51.9%) and drooling (37.0%). Oral motor dysfunction was most prominent in congenital DM, and males were more affected than females.
The cellular form of the prion protein (PrP(C)) is a plasma membrane-anchored glycoprotein whose physiological function is poorly understood. Here we report the effect of transgene expression of Xenopus PrP(C) fused to the C-terminus of the green fluorescent protein (GFP-PrP(C)) specifically in the neuroendocrine intermediate pituitary melanotrope cells of Xenopus laevis. In the transgenic melanotrope cells, the level of the prohormone proopiomelanocortin (POMC) in the secretory pathway was reduced when the cells were (i) exposed for a relatively long time to the transgene product (by physiologically inducing transgene expression), (ii) metabolically stressed, or (iii) forced to produce unfolded POMC. Intriguingly, although the overall ultrastructure was normal, electron microscopy revealed the induction of lysosomes taking up POMC secretory granules (crinophagy) in the transgenic melanotrope cells, likely causing the reduced POMC levels. Together, our results indicate that in neuroendocrine cells transgene expression of PrP(C) affects the functioning of the secretory pathway and induces crinophagy.
Primitively eusocial paper wasps exhibit considerable plasticity in their division of labor. Dominance interactions among nest mates play a strong role in determining the task performance patterns of adult females. We asked whether dominance status and task performance differences were associated with the development of subregions of the mushroom bodies (MB) of female Mischocyttarus mastigophorus queens and workers. We found that the MB calycal neuropils were better developed (relative to the Kenyon cell body layer) in the dominant females that spent more time on the nest. Increased MB calyx development was more strongly associated with social dominance than with high rates of foraging. The MB of queens resembled those of dominant workers. The results suggest that social interactions are particularly relevant to M. mastigophorus females' cognition. By examining the MB of newly emerged females, we also found evidence for significant age-related changes in MB structure.
Working memory (WM), the ability to monitor, process and maintain task relevant information on-line to respond to immediate environmental demands, is controlled by frontal systems (D'Esposito et al., 2006), which are particularly vulnerable to damage from a traumatic brain injury (TBI). This study employed the adult-based Working Memory model of Baddeley and Hitch (1974) to examine the relationship between working memory function and new verbal learning in children with TBI. A cross-sectional sample of 36 school-aged children with a moderate to severe TBI was compared to age-matched healthy Controls on a series of tasks assessing working memory subsystems: the Phonological Loop (PL) and Central Executive (CE). The TBI group performed significantly more poorly than Controls on the PL measure and the majority of CE tasks. On new learning tasks, the TBI group consistently produced fewer words than Controls across the learning and delayed recall phases. Results revealed impaired PL function related to poor encoding and acquisition on a new verbal learning task in the TBI group. CE retrieval deficits in the TBI group contributed to general memory dysfunction in acquisition, retrieval and recognition memory. These results suggest that the nature of learning and memory deficits in children with TBI is related to working memory impairment.
